If you've been following Apple for a while probably remember them having quite a few the 80's it was IBM, in the 90's it was became Google. But the rivalry between Apple Since Samsung not only competes with Apple but also supplies Apple with key components display and flash memory chip. So let's soured, and how they feel about each other if you want to help decide which video topics these voting polls will show up in your mobile out our new iGenius plush doll at appleexplained.com. THE EARLY DAYS Now many of us today have become familiar they sell. But those business endeavors are the company's long history. In the 80's primarily on the semiconductor business. And Steve Jobs on several occasions for advice in 1983 at Samsung's offices in Seoul. Around investment in a new chip plant in China. It's their semiconductor business, but the two Apple went on to become Samsung's biggest of electronic parts. But the friendly and Samsung didn't last forever. Before the Lee Jae-Yong visited Apple's headquarters the device to Jae-Yong and dissembled it, And as you might expect, Samsung took the smartphone called the Galaxy just two years system. As a result, Jobs asserted that Android Samsung a copycat. It was at this moment when Apple's enemy. And the lengthy legal battle was proof that Apple was prepared to protect FROM FRIEND TO FOE The seven year lawsuit war started with Apple that came out of the blue. In fact, Apple front that their smartphones and tablets were the two companies had a long history of cooperation, proposed a licensing agreement where Samsung sold, and up to $40 for every tablet. But believe their products had infringed on any Apple issued the lawsuit. Claiming, "Instead Samsung has chosen to slavishly copy Apple's and elegant and distinctive product and packaging intellectual property rights." So was this and steal features that Apple had patented? looked before the iPhone... and after the Samsung borrowed heavily from innovations But what exactly were the offenses? After specific violations of their patents in order made a total of sixteen claims against Samsung, Trade dress infringement, trademark infringement, start with the first one, trade dress infringement. dress is the visual appearance of a product In other words, it prevents companies from as to prevent confusion among consumers. Who a certain brand, when in reality it's just knock-off Apple products sold in China, but laws protect companies from imitators. In an American company called eMachines with a knockoff of the wildly popular iMac, but sued the company through a trade dress claim. same thing by ripping off the iPhone and iPad's as you can see from this picture, there are aren't due to sheer coincidence. Next is trademark infringement, and this is while Samsung may have been able to argue incidental, the similarities in software elements to defend. There are literally hundreds of cases, Samsung just so happened to choose And third, was infringement of design patents. the form factor of the iPhone's chassis, add all of that up, we have claims ranging design. Essentially every major component were copied from their iPhone. And what did in Apple's favor. They ordered Samsung to infringements and to never do it again in story. In fact, the two companies were just Samsung ended up appealing the verdict and were infringing on their patents. This legal sides enjoying some wins and suffering some Tab from Germany which forced the company found guilty of infringing on Samsung's 4, 3GS, and 3G, as well as models of the original meant Apple would be banned from selling AT&amp;T but the white house had a chance to veto the Obama did. Now the seven-year-long lawsuit war came to agreed on an undisclosed settlement. Although worth considering how much damage the entire each were compensated in return. But Apple when they released this statement: "We believe work tirelessly to create innovative products always been about more than money. Apple ignited it is a fact that Samsung blatantly copied to protect the hard work and innovation of to the jury for their service and pleased our products." Samsung declined to comment. THE AFTERMATH Now you'd probably imagine that after all nothing to do with each other, but it turned still provides Apple with crucial components X's beautiful OLED display was brought to And the revenue generated by these component for each iPhone X sold, and since Apple sold up to over 14 billion dollars for Samsung. own Galaxy S8 at $10 billion, and you begin is between the two companies. Apple relies that can be mass produced at scale, while they make. So the destruction of either company I think that's why Tim Cook dialed back the Android and Samsung case back in 2010. if I need to, and I will spend every penny this wrong, I'm going to destroy Android, to go thermonuclear war on this." And although quote, those feelings extended to other companies Apple's products. But in 2012 Tim Cook made He said, "I'd highly prefer to settle that's very important is that Apple doesn't always hated litigation. We need people to So although Cook wasn't interested in dragging he was interested in relying on Samsung less added LG as a supplier of OLED displays, who the end of 2018, and may believe Apple will later this year. This will improve supply-chain with both suppliers, hopefully resulting in But that isn't to say Apple and Samsung ago the companies announced a deal that took Apple would bring iTunes Movies and TV Shows 2 support. Which means not only will users and buy or rent movies and tv shows from the play videos, photos, music, podcasts and more TVs. Something that was previously only possible another great example of Apple and Samsung companies. Samsung will likely sell more TVs Apple will likely sell more movies and TV on the iTunes Store. MOVING FORWARD So we've recognized that Apple's relationship it's true that they're direct competitors I think we'll see more cooperation between Mainly because they've both been challenged consumer electronics company that has been high-quality smartphones. Apple and Samsung presence in China to take advantage of their But things didn't go as planned for either Huawei disrupted the market by undercutting full-featured premium phones. In fact, in smartphone marketshare dropped two percentage point. All while Huawei managed to grow their points, which means they're one of the only sales. So it seems as if Apple and Samsung have more couple years. They ended the lawsuit war, access more paying customers, and they still only time will tell if this trend toward friendliness cause a divide between the two companies yet Now if you want early access to my next video, don't forget about our affordable new iGenius Thanks for watching and I'll see you next