Ly Tu Tien greets everyone and wishes everyone a peaceful new day. Tu Tien would like to thank everyone for all the love and affection that everyone has given Tu Tien during the past time . fever, she must be so tired , her legs are more swollen than purple, she's so miserable, let's go boil some water for her to soak her feet in, heat some hot water for her to apply to her feet, her feet are swollen and you're awake. Oh, how long have you been here? Just go to bed and lie down. How long have you been here? I've been here for a while. I saw you sleeping and I thought it was because you were so tired. So I came here to sit. Do you still have a lot of pain? Is it still hurting ? No, just go home and lie down. I'll go sit here and get some fresh air. Do you still have a lot of pain? My legs are a bit sore . I've finished my work. I'm so worried about you. I'll come here. Your legs are all purple. I just boiled them. I've given you some warm water. I'll apply a compress to your leg to help prevent blood clots . Please take it off . Yes, the medicine must have absorbed. Or should I let you do it because yesterday they only applied the medicine? Let me take it off and then mix it with hot water. Please wash your feet so they can't be wrapped like this for too long. Is it going to hurt too much? It's okay . Please try your best. Let me get you some hot water to apply to your feet. Just sit quietly here , I'm sure you won't need it . I 've already boiled the water and here it is, I'll let the other one wash it. I'll soak my foot in here, it will feel more comfortable . I'll put the other foot in as well. It'll feel better. It'll feel better. Just soak it for a while and it'll feel fine. More than that, thank you. My feet are getting more purple every day. I must have been hit hard, so now they are purple. I just keep soaking my feet. I feel better. Yesterday , I bought a bottle of milk for the mother dog without knowing it. If not, I'll ask Mr. Phuc to come get some things for you. I'll come over tomorrow and get them for you. Yes , you're so gentle, just sit and soak your feet. How's Ms. Huong's story ? She quit her job and won't work with me anymore. I didn't expect her to do such things. Tu Tien, you can rest assured that from now on, no one will bully you anymore. I will protect you, and if anything happens. I have to tell you that Ms. Huong, now that I've given her a break, I still can't believe that she would do something like that, she probably has her own reasons, sir, is there something I'm hiding? Are you right? Actually, Ms. Huong has feelings for this guy. He and Ms. Huong have nothing but work, he only considers her his colleague , but women always consider her. I care more about feelings than you, Tu Tien. Actually, besides my mother and you, the only thing that worries me right now is work , so don't think too much, but I feel like your presence makes her become more serious. So I feel like wherever I go, I cause trouble for everyone. Tu Tien, society is like that now. I want you to be strong . Think and live differently than before. Please try. Try your best because now that I have you by my side, you can't cry. Every time you cry, I feel very sad. Don't think too much. Are you hungry? I'll cook noodles for you to eat . I'm not hungry. From now on, I'll spend more time here with you. Please sit and soak your feet. I'm sweeping the yard. I haven't finished sweeping yet. Can I cook something for you to eat ? Yes, there's a broom here. I'm afraid you'll wake up. so I'm sweeping with this broom . I'll probably cook a pot of porridge for my dog. Yes . Has Giang come home yet? I'm here. Someday, I'll take you to her house to play. Yes. I've known Giang since I was little. She's very nice. Someday , when you and I come to Giang's house to play, it's okay to just leave it there. Let me cook porridge for the dog. Which pot should I put the porridge for the dog in ? The pot I put down there, be careful of getting your clothes dirty. Yes, how do you water the vegetables ? There's a vase in the bathroom Let me go water the vegetables, otherwise the vegetables are all wilted . Or should you go home and rest? I'll go water the vegetables, so I'll go in and apply the medicine. There's a pair of green leaves over there. The weather is nice and sunny today. Let me take you in. Please lie down and rest. Yes, please lie down and rest. I'll go water the vegetables. Yes, help me. She's grown so many vegetables. How do you see your legs getting better ? The swelling is less . Please give me some fruit to eat, let me peel it so the chickens in the coop will lay a lot of it. Yes, I also picked up some fruit the other day. Let's break some eggs into porridge for my mother's dog. Yes, are you tired? Are you tired? Honey, thank you so much. At times like this, I'm the only one with you. In fact, I also feel sorry for you. Because of you, Miss Huong treats me like that. It's okay, I'm fine too. Just consider it an unfortunate accident. Please eat, thank you. Let's not worry about Ms. Huong anymore. Everything has been resolved. Yes, so don't think too much. Please eat. The apple is very sweet. Eat it. You should lie down and rest. Your legs are like that. I don't think you should take too much Western medicine. Your legs are just sprained. I'll go get traditional medicine to cover your sprain. I know how to get the medicine. Yes. Do you still have a lot of pain right now ? I feel it's just swollen and purple. After you eat, go rest. I'll go get some medicine, boil it and wrap your foot. I'll use herbal medicine to help you heal faster. Yes, brother. , have you arranged the work at the construction site well? I've arranged it well. I'll leave it here. Whenever I'm hungry, I'll drink milk. Yes, let me see if my leg still hurts a lot. It's not getting better. My leg is hurting . The purple color is probably due to the strong impact. Now it's purple. The important thing is that you have to walk less now . Just rest. When you fully recover, you can work . Don't do anything now. Your legs are like this. I'm so worried, let me go get medicine and wrap your feet. Yes, I'll feed the dog and then go get medicine to wrap your feet. Yes, the porridge is cooked but it's still too hot for the dog to eat . Let it cool and then feed it later . Rest okay, now I'll go get medicine for you, do you have any boots? Yes , I have them, at the front of the house, you should rest. Now I'm going to go to the forest. Well, I'll try to go to the forest to see if there's anything , but But I think the road is very difficult. Can you walk? Can you walk? Please be careful. Um, just rest. I'll go get some medicine for you. Yes . Do you have any hats? I have them. If you see, I'll go. There's a bamboo tree here. I'll cut down a section of this tree and there's too little of it. There 's a bamboo tree that's too big. I'll cut this tree down and it'll break. Then you'll get the tobacco leaves. Now you Boil it for me, yes, I feel much better, but not much better yet, please rest. I'll do it for a bit and it'll be done. Just stay in the house. I'll do it for a bit and it'll be done. What are you doing here? You've been lying down too much. I'm bored, so I'll sit here . I'll sit here and wait for you. I'll wrap the medicine for you. Yes, let me do it quickly. I don't think your legs are looking like this. Yes, I'll sit there. Do you have to go far today? I only walked about 1km. It's too hard for me. It 's nothing. I wrap it in herbal medicine leaves and it will help me recover faster. I'm just injured, it doesn't affect me much. Yes, I also didn't expect you to know how to take it. Another medicine, my grandfather told me the other day, yes, I'll take a lot of apricot trees and wrap them for you. After pounding this medicine, put it in a bamboo tube, boil it, then wrap it directly on your feet. Yes , I'll feel better tomorrow. Yes, do we have a saw at home? I had it the other day but I don't know where I put it . Uh, let me go out and look for it. Have you found it? Yes. Here. Okay, I'll use this tube again tomorrow. Yes , just cut it up and I'll clean it up tomorrow. Well, I'll bring it here. Maybe the neighbor's kids will come here to bathe. Yes, it's close here. The stream likes you, children come here every afternoon to bathe. Yes , the water here is always clean. Now I'll light the stove and put it in to boil . Wait a while for it to bubble up, let it cool a bit, then wrap it. Directly touching my feet, isn't it tiring? Things like this are not difficult at all. Fortunately, I'm by your side. Don't worry. I'll always be by your side and take care of you. What do you want to eat? I'll cook for you. No, as long as I can take care of you, I'll be happy. I'll arrange regular work to come here with you . Today, the corporation assigned a new secretary for me, so I'll come back later and see how it goes . I'll wrap the medicine for you and then I'll go home for a bit and then I'll come back and then I'll help you feed the dog. I'm sure the porridge has cooled down. Let me feed it for a while. Mom is too skinny. Let me get the porridge to feed it. Yes. Oh , he's so good, but he raised his puppies well . Yes, the puppies are very fat. Mom is skinny so I can go get them something to eat. Yes, I'll help you. Mom, come here. The porridge is still a little hot . 1 Is there a wipe in the pot? In here, I see a bandage in the medicine bag. Let me get water to wash your feet and wrap the medicine in . Yes, I'll let someone else wash it. I'll let you wash it yourself. That's it. Wash it so I can get the medicine . Don't soak in the water for too long. Put your feet up here. Can you put your feet out for a bit? Can you hold it so I can feel the heat ? Does the pain feel better? Please hold it for me. You'll feel much better now, stay in bed and rest. I'll be back in a while and then I'll come back to you . Yes, that's okay, you can go home. I'll lie down and rest. Yes, I'll apply the medicine. It 's more comfortable now, so why don't you just lie down and rest ? Why are there so many natural disasters and floods this year? The weather is getting hotter. Is anyone home? Hello . Hello, may I ask? Is this home? Jack, yes, are you Jack's mother? Yes, you are Jack's mother. I'm sitting and drinking water. Yes , I'm sitting and drinking water. Thank you. Jack is not at home today. Uncle Jack is at the construction site. Please drink some water, please let me introduce myself. My name is Huyen. I was appointed by the corporation to be Jack's new secretary. So, this is my first time coming to your house. I have some gifts for you. Please accept them for me. Um, thank you. I came to visit and gave you a small gift. I came straight from the company down here. Yes, I decided to send you down, so I came down here to play with you. How far is it from up there to here? It's only about 10km away, so that's quite a distance, right? Yes, do you know anyone down here ? I'm assigned by the company to each of your home addresses. I'll come down here to play with you. Is that so? I'm here to eat with you. Maybe I'll ask for permission to go home later, or I'll just come here and eat with you. I'm so sad by myself. Jack's been at the construction site since this morning and hasn't returned yet. I'll just come back and prepare some documents. for my upcoming job , but Jack is not married yet . Um, he keeps going to work tomorrow and hasn't gotten married yet , so it's sad for me to be alone, right? Jack works all day long. Many days I cook rice. But when I didn't see him come home to eat, I felt very sad eating alone I often go on trips here or go to a friend's house to hang out to relieve my sadness . Jack is very engrossed in work . Yes, when I come down here to work, I will come and play with you. Um, come play with me and cook here. Yes, Jack is rare. When I'm at home, I move around a lot, so I 'm used to it and say hello to mom . Hello, I 'm Huyen. The company assigned me to be your new secretary. I saw you called and said you'd be coming down tomorrow. Why are you coming down now? Yes, I want to go down first to visit my aunt. I'm not going anywhere right now. I'm at home. I bought this thing. Okay, Huyen bought a gift for her. I'll go down and play, no need to. Where can I buy a gift for my mother? Yes, it's just my little heart. Please drink some water. I saw the corporation said they would appoint a new secretary tomorrow, so I don't know if I'm coming down today. Yes, I'll go down first to visit my family. This is my house. Brother, if you have anything to discuss about work, just come up here today and I'll come visit your house. Tomorrow I'll start work. If there's anything you don't understand, I hope you can explain more. Um, come down to the company tomorrow and I'll help you with your work . Don't worry, yes, Mom, have you eaten anything yet? Mom ate late this morning. She's keeping Huyen to eat with her. If she doesn't stay, you can stay with my mom to eat and I'll be busy with work. I'll have to go later. I've got some work to do, I'll just stay and have dinner with your mother, okay? Another day when I come, your mother will be sad at home alone. She sometimes goes out and she just talked to Huyen, telling her to work down here. Come over here to play with your mom and cook to relieve your sadness . My old secretary just quit some work. I just told Ms. Kieu to hire me a new secretary. Yesterday, the corporation called to say that the new secretary was coming down. I'll try my best for you at work. Yes , Ms. Huong quit her job. Ms. Huong had some problems so I let her take the day off. What's the matter ? I just have a personal matter. I'll tell mom when I'm free. Later, I'll go in and take a shower, Huyen, sit and play with your mother. Yes, it's just work all day. Sometimes when I get home, I'll go again. Yes, it's a lot of work and it's hard. I didn't think you were so young and handsome. So, if you don't want to get married, I don't want to get married yet. I'm sure you already have a lover. I really hope that the bosses at the company will often mention Jack's name and praise you for doing a good job in the company. I'm good at it, but finding a daughter -in-law for my mother is always difficult. I'm not that good. I guess I'll have to look for it slowly. You talk all the time, but I don't want to get married. That's all I want because the family only has Jack first. Jack's family was also very difficult to raise. When he grew up, he also knew how to love him. He worked very hard and tried his best at work. Now that he's old, he wants Jack to get married . After many days of talking, he will return. Talking about work and then going to work, do I have a family yet ? How old am I? I was born in 1994. So I'm at the age to get married and no one is married yet. I have a job. Stay out here for a little while, let me eat at home first. Huyen, stay here for a little while, eat with my mother. Okay, I'll just go home now. I'll go again. Yes, I have a little something to do . Huyen, sit and play with my mother. Hey, hello mom, I've just come back and I'm going again. There are days when I have to serve dinner and I don't even have time to eat. For me, my job is the top priority. How many brothers does my family have ? Yes, I have 2 brothers. There are 2 children left. I'm happy, I'm the only one Jack who's sad sometimes. How are my parents? How are they? My parents are 50 years old this year, so my parents are 2 years younger than you. What are my grandparents doing there? Going to teach, working in the education industry is good. It's also less difficult for my grandparents to teach. It's late now. I'll stay here. We'll cook dinner . Let's go home and prepare for work tomorrow. hello, uncle , hello, when you're free, come and play. When you're home, be careful. So tonight I'm having dinner alone again, and I don't know if there's anything to do that makes me go away or should I buy it for Ms. Tu Tien 1 Few books. She's bored at home. Let her read. Have you chosen any? There are some good books here. Yes, thank you. I'll just get this degree. Please pay for me. I've been doing this lately. How are you? How are you? 296,000 VND. Please transfer the money. I received it. Goodbye. Are the pigeons hungry or something? Why don't you stay in the motel and go out? What are you doing? You've been lying down all day. Seeing that the bird was hungry, I got up to feed the bird, but my leg feels much better. I can't walk and don't feel much pain anymore. I think my leg feels better. Since wrapping it in warm medicine, I've felt much better. I bought some. I'll cook something for you to eat. Do you want to wash your hair? I'll boil some water to wash your hair for you. Yes, then I'll boil a kettle of water for you. Please sit here. I'll go to work for you . Yes, honey. Buy me some books to read to relieve boredom. If you have free time, just read these books. There are many useful things for us to apply later. This morning, I saw you holding a medical examination book to read, so I thought. Buy me some of the books I want in the future so I can work with you. This book has a lot of benefits. If you have time, you can read it. I also like to read books, but I don't have the conditions in front of my house in the past. Do you still dream of being a teacher ? If you have free time, you can read these books, but when you reach 5th grade, you will have to quit, it's okay, try your best, follow me later, I'll tell you more yes Thank you, let me go cook something for you to eat. Yes , I bought a lot of food, yes