Thanks to this month's Eontologists: Jake If you'd like to join them in supporting In 1824, French naturalist Georges Cuvier specimen of an extinct crocodilian. But even he had no idea how truly odd this The specimen was from central France and consisted that it was some kind of croc-like reptile, Cuvier noted that the teeth were flat and teeth found in modern crocodilians. This reptile seemed equipped more for biting it into the water, as many crocodilians do Cuvier described this animal as "the crocodile a lot more regal in French. Today this animal is known as Boverisuchus. But it wasn't until almost two centuries later was finally pieced together, revealing that the weirdest members of the order Crocodilia For one thing, its legs were much longer than And its hind legs were a lot longer than its Plus, instead of claws, its toes were each found on early horses at the time. So, yeah! There once was a crocodilian with hooves that And some researchers think that it had another, aren't so sure. Now, how did this living nightmare, this "crocodile Basically, it's the product of a whole lot When I say Boverisuchus was a crocodilian, But it was a member of the same Order as crocodiles, And anything within that order, including are called crocodilians. And members of the order Crocodilia have been Cretaceous, around 100 million years ago. But after the extinction event at the end and other large archosaurs were gone. And that's when crocodilians really began of the niches that those animals had left One such group of enterprising reptiles was , a group of crocodilians that are characterized water, and having those strange blade-like Planocraniidae first showed up in the Paleocene with a species from China known as Planocrania But the family soon spread and diversified. And by the middle of the Eocene Epoch, around found running around Germany and North America Boverisuchus. No matter where it lived, Boverisuchus usually And that might have been one of the driving nightmare fodder that it became. After all, when a lot of carnivores are in And when that happens, sometimes you have yourself apart, in order to survive. A good example of this phenomenon is recorded old fossil site in Germany known as Geiseltal This layer of swampy sediment preserves the in addition to Boverisuchus. There was Asiatosuchus , which was nearly and the tiny pug-faced Allognathosuchus at Studies of the teeth and skulls of these crocs own ecological niche. Asiatosuchus, for example, was the biggest mammals that came to drink from the swamp. But Diplocynodon ate small fish and frogs. And Allognathosuchus was more likely eating But all three of these crocodilians were aquatic, They had short legs, and long, fin-like tails. They weren't built for running after prey And there were some predators on land, but 48 million years ago, bears, cats, and dogs Which means that a large niche for a predator And the land was full of potential prey - from horses. So any crocodilian that could take advantage a better chance of thriving, especially when patrolling the waterways. Ok but then how did Boverisuchus come to fill that How did its ancestors become this running, Well, the fossil record doesn't really help In the United States, Boverisuchus shows up Eocene. It appears in the fossil record nearly simultaneously, and Utah, before spreading to Europe. And there's no sign of the ancestor that But we can find clues to its origins by looking Because, the fact is, not all modern crocodilians Some of them still do hunt on land - like This caiman isn't closely related to Boverisuchus But it does have a similar lifestyle. Not only does it tend to hunt on land but, distances. It even has teeth that are a bit more blade-like So researchers think that whatever Boverisuchus a lot like today's smooth-fronted caiman. And that ancestor would have been primed for biting power, making it better suited to life Now, one key to that transition was in its Those flat, serrated teeth that Boverisuchus dentition, and it made a big difference in Many modern crocodilians drag their prey underwater. So they have conical teeth that can clench Which is..not how I want to go But terrestrial crocodilians needed sharp, damage in single bites, killing their prey Which is...not a better option Now, another adaptation that gave this reptile legs. Like I mentioned before, the legs of Boverisuchus And its back legs were longer than its front And this is where things get even more interesting. And ... pretty controversial. If you've ever heard of Boverisuchus, or then you might have heard that this reptile to run on just two legs. On some TV shows and websites, it's been that it could at times, carry itself on its land. This ability was proposed by a researcher long back legs might have made this possible. After all, many reptiles with a body plan hind legs, like basilisks and collared lizards. And if Boverisuchus really could have run it would've made this animal even more terrifyingly Or, awesomely terrifying? But we talked to a couple of experts in ancient who re-classified Pristichampsus as Boverisuchus. And he and others are not at all convinced. They argue that the limb proportions of this are in modern bipedal lizards, and that its it to have been able to raise its upper body. If Boverisuchus wasn't bipedal, I'd have But also somewhat relieved? And in any case, Boverisuchus did have one that helped it master life on dry land: its Most crocodilians have pointy fingers that But the claws of Boverisuchus were rounded Pretty much the only difference between the prey, like early horses, was that its hooves So with its hooved hands and feet, it would've and adding bursts of speed to catch its prey. And the fossil evidence suggests that these they did. Several horse fossils found at Geiseltal in embedded in them. And at another site in Germany, there's that show evidence of going through the very But despite the many adaptations that Boverisuchus hooved, running crocodilians today. And I'm going to count that as a positive The last of the planocraniids, a species known 40 million and 45 million years ago. It was, as they say, the end of an era -- but predators. The earliest members of the order Carnivora the creodonts - an odd group of mammals that they weren't actually related to either. It's not clear whether these warm-blooded but it's possible. And a big environmental change was also underway the chemistry of mountain-building. Earlier in the Eocene, the collision of the the Himalayas, and the slow weathering of Dioxide from the air. These and other plate movements also changed these forces caused the climate to cool. Crocodilian ranges started to shrink, retreating to the equator. So perhaps Boverisuchus, in cooler weather, mammalian predators. Ancient Crocodylians like Boverisuchus owed took place within their own family, which the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs In the case of Boverisuchus, that resulted hooved feet. But when faced with competition outside its end, even this speedy reptile couldn't keep Thanks for joining me today in the Konstantin And you might notice that I'm wearing our first ever Eons shirt. Complete with a pocket And you can find them at DFTBA.com, the link is in the description Now Boverisuchus was a fascinating reptile, learned about drepanosaurs and the other strange And you can do that right here!