Just five million yuan (~$688K). That's a small amount. Stop. Don't go. They run fast. I'll handle this. Your car must be expensive. I really can't afford to repair it. I've taken the photos. As for the compensation, it will be determined after the damage assessment. The damage assessment? it's her. Just now a man on a bike almost hit me. This guy was dodging me and accidentally hit your car. I just went after him but failed. I also bear responsibility for this. If he hadn't been dodging me, he wouldn't have hit your car. Please check how much it will cost to repair your car. I'll pay with him. I insist you must find that person. that person was driving while talking on the phone. He violated traffic rules. He must take full responsibility. It's her. I have to go to work. May I give you my phone number? You can call me if you need something. Tang Song, get their contact information and let them go. please leave me your contact information. I'll call you after the damage assessment. Okay. Okay. They have already arrived. Lin Zhen is giving a report. Hurry. I'm generating a diagnostic report for you. It shows your maxillary central incisor has a non-cavity hard tissue defect. A dental restoration is needed. Your left second molar has calculus and plaque bacteria. Periodontal treatment is required. Other teeth are in good condition. Xiaobai wishes you good health. [Guanghua Technology] [Diagnostic Report] this was the dental diagnostic report from the robot Xiaobai. And this is my medical report. We can see that robot Xiaobai has the same diagnosis as the hospital. Director Han, please have a look. Xiaobai's phase one focuses on the diagnosis and treatment of dental diseases. As of today, it has successfully treated 1,600 patients. The conformity rate with the hospital experts' diagnoses is as high as 99 percent. Quick. It's a very important meeting. It's important to your career. If Lin Zhen gets his way... The overall planning for Phase II. He will climb up the career ladder, and you'll climb down. Who knew the boss would come suddenly? The one sitting at the front is the boss? Yes. I hear he's not just a Guanghua's investor but also the CEO of Dongyang Medical. He just returned home today and on a whim decided to listen to the report about Xiaobai's phase one progress. It seems he attaches great importance to our project. A wise decision. About Xiaobai's Phase II planning, the first step is to... [Medical Imaging DICOM Conversion] [Xiaobai's Phase II Market Expansion Planning] The first step is market expansion planning. - It's divided into-- Go back to the previous slide. This is the core algorithm model, right? Please elaborate. He knows his stuff. The core algorithm model hasn't been prepared well yet. My team is working hard to-- So the report wasn't done by you? What's going on? Director Han, Director Zeng, the report was completed by the group together. As for the Phase II planning, it's handled by Ji Xing, the product engineer. Ji Xing, come up and talk about it. Go ahead. This is Ji Xing, Xiaobai's product engineer. Han Ting? Give me the slide-turning pen. The biggest feature of the medical robot is that, during its working process, it has extensive collaborative interactions with doctors and patients. in terms of algorithms, we need to pay close attention to two parts. The first part is the collection of data and the system's self-learning, mainly dealing with related data on lesions that related data on lesions, any related data on lesions, and performing identification. The second part... The integrated data processing and computation results. Yes. After receiving the data, the system will quickly mark lesions through self-learning. The indicators corresponding to different diseases and predicted outcomes of reactions will be directly linked to the patient's medical records to conduct comprehensive data analysis and judgment. Thank you for recognizing our medical robot. And also thanks to my teammates. This is a product we designed together. Although it is still in its infancy, we will continue to improve it until it's put into use to help more people in need. Xiaobai's Phase II will focus on the diagnosis and treatment of cardiopulmonary diseases. There will be more variables. to ensure accuracy, we suggest Xiaobai to extensively integrate and store data from different hospitals for image recognition and precise learning. As for the specific plan of Xiaobai's Phase II, we will give a detailed report when we formally propose it. That's all, thanks. Thank you all. The meeting's over. Thanks to the boss, you got your fruit back. You're set for the team's highest bonus. Lin Zhen is usually so smug. He took a hard fall today. the investors are sharp-eyed. They saw through it. That's it for today's meeting. [CEO of Dongyang Medical] [Can Han Ting, hailed as the pride of Chinese people, take up the mantle?] [Dongyang Group undergoes major change. Can Han Ting quell the controversy?] [Han Ting studied abroad at the age of 19.] He studied in Germany. It's him. He's forgotten me? Was he pretending not to know me after becoming the boss? [Su Zhizhou] Zhizhou. Sister Xing, I've arrived at the cafe near your company. A black coffee for you? Anything's fine. You decide. Just send me the location. Okay. see you later. See you. Black coffee, your favorite beans. [Cardiopulmonary Disease Treatment] What do you think? Is the robot Xiaobai getting closer to the concept you told me about in Germany? Yeah. [Core Development Members of Xiaobai Robot] It's more interesting than expected. Interesting? [Name: Ji Xing] With the success of phase one, I'd like to throw a celebration party this weekend. Will you come? Okay. Send the time and place to Tang Song. Okay. Will you come home for dinner tonight? Grandpa knows you're back. He wanted me to welcome you back. I'll visit grandpa another day. Director Li will have dinner with Director Zhao of Ren'ai Hospital. You can join us to promote Xiaobai. 8:00 p.m. Okay. Director Li has been getting close to your cousin. It's just business. So you want me to join you just for business? Prepare it well. If we can collaborate with them, it will be good for Xiaobai's market expansion. got it. Don't worry. I'll get it done well. I have to go. I'll walk you out. Sister Xing. Your coffee. Thank you. I've made some changes to your business plan. You have a look. Sure. &quot;Industry Development Analysis.&quot; You even did the data expansion. [Data Expansion] You've essentially redone it for me. You are the best. You want to make customized medical equipment, don't you? It just so happens that I've been collecting information on this. I'm thinking about whether I can combine hardware and software and use it for the subsequent market expansion of the robot Xiaobai. So I just wrote a bit more. Sister Xing, come work with me. I'm quite settled now. And I'm about to buy a house and take on a mortgage. I don't want to take any risk. Life is about taking risks. Didn't you feel even a bit of passion and impulse when you were working on this business plan? Sister Xing, think about it. Do you really want to work for others all your life? you only need to offer your technical expertise. My dad said if I started a business, he would give me a big gift. You know my family runs a supermarket. I suppose my dad will give me a sizable amount of startup capital. Think about it. We have the technology, and my dad has the money. What are you hesitating for? But-- [Director Zeng] Director Zeng. Ji Xing. Are you busy? go ahead. Come with me to see some people tonight. Send me your address. I'll pick you up at 7:30 p.m. Okay. By the way, dress up a little. The person we're meeting is pretty important. Are you done? My back is getting sore. Trust me. This makes your eyes brighter. What have you done? My eyelids are too heavy. I can't even see properly. Let me see. Don't move. Look up. Done. Here you go. How is it? Such long eyelashes. It enlarges your eyes, right? All right, let me finish this. - Come on. Relax. Xing Xing, your boss is taking you out for a dinner? Is that a signal for a promotion and a raise? Could be. I did a project report today, and it went pretty well. Maybe my boss appreciates me. Really? You're one step closer to your dream of buying a house. I'm coming. Open the door. You stay! Li Li, what brings you here? Come in, Li Li. No need to change your shoes. Come in quickly. This... You did this makeup? Does it look good? Today's meeting is important. I need your help. What do you mean? You don't trust me and ask someone else for help? Sister Li is a top saleswoman, very experienced. She can advise me in all aspects. Take a look. Tu Xiaomeng spent two hours on my makeup. What is the occasion? I don't know. I wasn't told. She said we would meet some people. But she did tell me to dress up. How old is your boss? She's about 28 or 29, around our age. She's a tall lady, about 1.7 meters. She walks like this. She is both beautiful and wealthy. She also owns a company. Quite impressive. I think I can guess her style. You remove your makeup first. your office has been decorated according to your habits in Germany. I've collected the gifts for you. I'll show you the list in a moment. If you have no other comments, I'll prepare the return gifts according to the list. I've returned some improper gifts. What is this thing? It's a lamp, a gift from Chairman Xiao. It's a one-to-one replica of a gorilla. [Good luck. Smile!] has my scarf kept you warm? Sister Li, I'm so lucky to have you as my best friend. Have you been waiting long? No. Ji Xing, you've been working at Guanghua for three years. It must be hard to work on Xiaobai. Not really. I like this project. It makes me feel happy and accomplished. I see all the effort you've put in. Xiaobai wouldn't have progressed as fast without you. Your contribution is indispensable. Rest assured, Guanghua treats those who work hard well. Thank you, Director Zeng. Let's perform well later to strive to win over Director Zhao. Director Zhao? He's the son of Mr. Zhao, the chairman of Ren'ai Hospital. Ren'ai Hospital? It has many branches across the country. Yes. So, tonight, if he agrees to cooperate with us, the road ahead will be much smoother. Then what do I need to do? You know Xiaobai the best. You give him a good introduction. Act according to circumstances. Okay. If this collaboration is successful, I'll double your bonus. Thank you, Director Zeng. [Xingyue Club] Three with a pair. Pass. Director Zhao has good luck. He keeps winning. I've been lucky lately. Not just in playing cards, everything's been going smoothly. A pair of eights. Yes. You made money on the projects you invested in. Two Aces. I've just returned and already received Director Li's kind attention. I have much to learn from you. Pair of twos. We are friends. That's why I asked you to come. You did so well in Germany. But you should ask your cousin about the situation back home. Bomb. When it comes to business, your cousin is the best. If you and your cousin work together, our business will grow bigger. Inviting you for a meal is just to welcome you. This is Director Xiao's place, and I've invested in it. If you need to entertain clients, just come here. Director Han, you're always welcome. Thanks to Director Li, I've been able to invest in profitable projects. in terms of investment in healthcare, we'll need your advice. Come on. Focus on playing cards. No business. If you keep talking about business, I won't come again. Got it? - Bomb. Bomb. Five Aces. - Great. - Can I turn things around? Director Li. Director Zhao, your laughter is the loudest. Looks like you've won a lot tonight. You guessed right. Director Xiao and Director Li have lost a lot. - Is that so? It's not fun. He's serious about winning and losing. would you like me to hang your coat for you? This is Zeng Di from Guanghua Technology. - Director Zeng. You already know Director Zhao and Director Li. This is Xiao Yixiao, the owner of Xingyue Club. Director Xiao, I've heard a lot about you. Now Xingyue Club has become a gathering place for big shots. I have long heard of you. You're a young, capable, and beautiful woman. that's true. Director Zeng is a well-known beauty in our circle. I admire you. You earn money while playing. I'm flattered. let me introduce her to you. Ji Xing, an employee of Guanghua. She looks very young. You just graduated, right? I graduated three years ago. What major? I majored in computer science, both bachelor's and master's. That's a top major. She's beautiful and well-educated. Of course, Guanghua recruits talented beauties. You guys are playing Guandan? Guandan. Can you play? A little bit. That's great. Hurry. - Take a seat. - Come on. to see if he's cheating. - Is that necessary? - All right. It's okay. You sit. Director Zhao is so lucky. A beauty is sitting next to him. It's boring to play cards like this. Director Han, how about we switch places? I want a share of Director Zhao's good fortune. As you wish. Whoever teams up with me will win. Come on. I'll deal the cards. Drink something hot. Director Zhao. Rest assured, you don't need to use your brains when teaming up with me. Director Zhao is a bit cocky. I can afford to be cocky. Well... Director Zhao, shall I give it a try? Go ahead. Pair of threes. Pair of sixes. Pair of nines. Pair of Jacks. Pair of Aces. Pass. Bomb. Pass. Pair of twos. Three heart threes with a pair of fours. I have only two cards left. Three fives with a pair. Only one card left. It happens many times. I guess there are not many cards left. You don't have enough cards. Bomb again, Han Ting? Three cards with a pair. Are you so confident that I'll lose? You just lost. And you played so many threes with pairs. I don't believe you can do it again. You are too cocky. Why didn't you beat me just now? So you were waiting to deliver the final blow to me. I have already known your cards. Stop calculating probabilities. Aren't you tired? If I don't let you win, you won't win. You won. what cards do you have? - Let me see. Director Zhao will help me win. - He will win for sure. It's common to win or lose. beginners usually have better luck. You can't always win. I don't agree. Ji Xing didn't rely on luck. I know what cards I draw. Ji Xing purely won against you. What's wrong? Nothing. Just some static electricity. Director Zhao, you take my place. I'll return a call. Come over, Director Zhao. Here is a good spot. All right. Ji Xing, you play with them. - Okay. - Be nice. This is so funny. We were just teammates. But now we're opponents. What's wrong? You let your staff play with clients. This is your way of promotion? Ji Xing is a product engineer. She knows Xiaobai the best. I brought her here to introduce the product to Director Zhao. You are the boss of Guanghua. Can't you promote your products? I excel at management. Professionals are better versed in the technical details. Everyone has their strengths, after all. You're good at this. Are you from Guanghua's PR department? I am a product engineer, working on the Xiaobai project. Xiaobai? I hear that product is doing well. Why not tell us about it? Sure. Xiaobai is a diagnostic and treatment robot. It can perform face-to-face basic diagnostics and treatments. In the future, once connected to the cloud, it can also provide complex diagnostic and treatment services. It's a hot spot for future smart healthcare. Right now, we primarily assist large hospitals in conducting rapid testing for basic diseases. In phase one, we focused on oral diagnostics and treatments. The product has been successfully launched. In Phase II, we will focus on cardiology and pulmonology. Have you seen the movie, Big Hero 6? - Yes, I have. But what does that have to do with Xiaobai? Xiaobai is very similar to Baymax, except that Baymax scans with its eyes to detect the body's condition. But Xiaobai... Let me show you. What is it? When people open their mouths, Xiaobai's hands can go into the mouth to detect the condition. In the future, it can even heal like Baymax. - No way. Really? If you make it successfully, it will be super cool. It looks way more interesting than the cold machines my buddies are investing in. This is the direction we will strive towards. Director Zhao looks happy tonight. you were also making things easier. Let her go. It's a private gathering. I'm not used to having outsiders around. got it. We don't have a large sample size. But if we can form a strategic partnership with a large hospital, very soon, this machine will be able to handle more complex diagnostic and treatment tasks. About the sample data, I think Director Zhao's hospital could solve it for you. Director Xiao, don't set a trap for me. you played cards for me just for this purpose, right? It's a small matter, I'll talk to my dad. But you'll have to give me a detailed introduction later, okay? thank you, Director Zhao. Let's friend each other on WeChat. Come on. Have a seat. Ji Xing. Can I talk to you? Excuse me. Director Zeng. Thank you for tonight. You can go back. Don't overthink it. Director Han has private matters to discuss with them. It might not be convenient if you're here. Take a cab home. Remember to get reimbursed for the taxi fare. Be safe. Director Han, four fours. Start with a bomb. Hold on. Pass. your coat. Thank you. Let's go. All right, see you. Do it again if there's time. - Okay. - All right. A good man. see you. Take care. Director Zeng, I'm looking forward to a pleasant cooperation. Remember to bring Ji Xing here again. Okay. Director Zhao. See you. Hope to see you again. I have to go. Han Ting. Do you have time? I have something to say. I just got back and I'm a bit tired. We talk another time. You've had wine. Get some rest. [Old Si Ye Wontons] [Old Si, Ye] a bowl of coriander wontons, please. Long time no see. You're back. Yes. [Alcohol] This place looks good. Xingyue has so much delicious food. It can't compare to wontons? I love wontons. this is the food you always mentioned in Germany. Give it a try. It tastes good. No. I'm already full. could I trouble you for a glass of water? Okay. It was troublesome with Director Li there. He has such a good relationship with your sister. It's clear that he showed up tonight because you didn't attend the board meeting. - Thank you. It was unnecessary. Why does our private meeting feel like a secret rendezvous? Thank you for the gorilla you sent. It's a lamp. Don't you think it's very unique? If they knew that you are the real owner of Xingyue and that those projects of mine that look like patchwork investments were actually all invested on your behalf, wouldn't it be thrilling? You've worked hard, but the effort has finally paid off. You can go to the board meeting with peace of mind now. the certificate from the National Medical Products Administration will be approved. The first batch of fusion devices from Hanhai will soon be put on the market. We've nurtured Hanhai for five years now. It's finally time to reap the rewards. I can't wait to see the look on their faces when they find out that you are the real owner of Hanhai. Did you know Ji Xing, the girl who came with Zeng Di? A stranger couldn't make you willingly concede. you wouldn't go to such lengths just to please Director Zhao. We were college classmates. There's a story there, right? After all, he and I worked together during our college days. We were comrades who won a national award. But what does all that mean now? He pretended not to know me and even chased me away. He's come back from Germany and became a high and mighty leader. So impressive. Would acknowledging me be that embarrassing? He chased you away. Are you sure he recognized you? I haven't had plastic surgery. Have I changed that much? Never mind, it's not important. It's good that I left; it would have been awkward. Wait. This is your fault too. You have worked at Guanghua for so long. How come you never thought of checking who the investor is? She's just a worker. It's normal not to check who's investing. Back then, were you on good terms with him? Senior. I'm Ji Xing. I'm here to report in. the email said that a student from the medical school named Han Ting would be with us. A medical student also understands robots? A little. Hello. I am Han Ting. I guess I'm half an alumnus of Xinggang University with him. Half? How so? Different majors. The only interaction I had with him was during the winter break of our sophomore year when we both signed up for the National University Students' AI Innovation Competition. We won first place. [Xinggang University] Do you have time tonight? Let's have dinner together. - Sure, okay. I'll book a restaurant a little later. Okay. Han Ting, let's have dinner together tonight. Okay. A little later, I'll send you the address of the restaurant. We originally agreed to have dinner together that evening. But after I went home, something unexpected happened. Ji Xing, will you be my girlfriend? That's no good. Han Ting. Grandpa. That business school in Germany has finally agreed to give you an additional admission spot. They've sent you an offer out of consideration. You need to report there in three days. Hurry up and pack. We're flying to Beijing tonight. would it be okay to leave in a couple of days? Nothing is more important than your studies abroad. Hurry up. [I'm going to study in Germany. Sorry I cannot join you.] [I'll be back during the vacation. Let's stay in touch.] How did she reply? She didn't reply to the text, nor did she answer my calls. he didn't show up at the restaurant. This time he even directly kicked me out. He didn't show me the least courtesy. You just pretended not to recognize her. Is it because tonight's situation was so complicated? You were afraid of getting her involved? you just couldn't stand Director Zhao inappropriate actions towards her? That's why you had Zeng Di send her away, right? Xing Xing, aren't you curious about why he left without saying goodbye back then? I am quite curious. But it doesn't really matter. We never had that deep a bond to begin with. You two don't have any feelings for each other? What feelings? That kind. What are you thinking? Get a hold of your crazy imagination, Tu Xiaomeng. Then why do you care so much that he asked you to leave? Wouldn't it bother you to be summoned and dismissed at someone's whim? The point is that Director Zeng agreed. If we can facilitate a collaboration with Director Zhao this time, she'll double my project bonus. Double! Right now, I have nothing. My house is missing a bathroom. At least one bathroom. Enough already, stop thinking about it. You can always earn money. is it worth getting so upset over him? It's like something I had in hand just flew away. Even if he had asked you to stay there, it's not certain you could have won over Director Zhao, Junior, right? - Yes, but what if? - Why are you taking his side? come on... Hurry and get that bathroom back. For the bathroom, right. Do you like her or something? You're watching too many idol dramas. That's my only hobby. Don't keep criticizing me, okay? Hurry up and tell me, do you like her or not? That's all ancient history now. She never showed any interest in me back then. She didn't even reply to my text message. She must have forgotten about me long ago. Wait. Is there a possibility that there was some mistake? Maybe she never actually received your text message? There couldn't be that many coincidences. It's all in the past. She and I are just strangers now. You're just being stubborn. [Ji Xing 19335049900] She really did change her number? [Friend Request] Can't you let me get a good night's sleep? I'm really down on my luck today. [I've accepted your friend request. We can start chatting now.] [I'm Han Ting...] [Creditor] [How to compensate for scratching a car] [How is the damage assessed?] [Ji Xing] May I ask if your boss was late? [Creditor] That's good. May I ask how much I need to pay you in compensation? The damages have not been assessed yet. Don't worry, the boss is a good person. He won't swindle you. That would be great. Thank you. Your boss has a good heart. He will surely be wealthy for life. [Dongyang Group] do you know? Our investor, Han Ting, works in the top-floor office. We might often run into him. Just thinking about it is exciting. Do you have that feeling too? I guess so. He's so handsome. He has a good-looking face and long legs. Right? So handsome. Listen up, colleagues from the R &amp; D (research and development) department. I have good news to announce to everyone. Director Zeng has successfully negotiated a partnership between Xiaobai and Ren'ai Hospital. The company will host a celebration banquet this weekend. After the celebration banquet, our department will need to work with Director Zhu from the sales department to carry out some of the work. We will be relying on everyone's help from now on. Okay! Come to my office. Have you seen the news from Hanhai? 3D medical printing. Perhaps our Dongyang Medical really should follow suit? Director He, we can't do something just because everyone else is doing it. Our Dongyang Medical has been growing for decades, becoming larger and larger. What is it relying on? It's relying on specialization. Hanhai Technology has been established for five years and has just launched its first product. As to this input-to-output ratio, I think everyone is able to clearly assess that, right? Excuse me for being late. The last board meeting was canceled. I regret not being able to meet everyone at the first instance. That's okay, all the directors can understand that. After all, you've spent ten years in Germany. You took over Dongyang Medical as soon as you returned to the country. You still need to familiarize yourself with the domestic environment. We've convened this board meeting today to seek advice from the elders here. Director Han , you have been abroad for a long time and you have limited experience. You might not be very familiar with the domestic medical market. You should listen more to your elder sister. If you insist on going your own way and lead Dongyang Medical down the wrong path, I believe the uncles present here will not agree. As for me, as long as it can make me some money, a lot of money... everything is negotiable. But if it doesn't make money, then I have no choice. I hope everyone will share this sentiment. Everyone is right, we need to look at the revenue of Dongyang. fellow directors, I have brought a gift for our meeting. It's right here on the electronic screen in front of everyone. When I was in Germany, without thinking much about it, I invested in Guanghua which produced Xiaobai. Now that I have returned to Dongyang Medical as the CEO, I have decided to merge Guanghua into Dongyang Medical. What you are looking at now is the letter of intent for collaboration between Xinggang Hospital and Xiaobai. In addition to Xinggang Hospital, there are also several medical institutions that have shown great interest in integrating Xiaobai into their existing medical system. the investment community has also shown enthusiasm in participating in this project. This acquisition should promote a small surge in Dongyang Medical's stock. Ji Xing, flowers for you. For me? Thank you. Xing Xing's boyfriend sent them? - Let me see. &quot;Ji Xing, you left a deep impression on me last night. Looking forward to our next meeting, Zhao Xingbo.&quot; Your boyfriend's name is Zhao Xingbo? Zhao Xingbo? Director Zhu. Zhao Xingbo... that's Director Zhao of Ren'ai Hospital. I thought this collaboration was secured by Director Zeng. I didn't expect it to be thanks to you. Young lady, you are skilled. beauty is an advantage. there's a misunderstanding. Director Zhao is just the one who was at Director Zeng's dinner last night. We've only met once. He invested in us solely because of Xiaobai's good performance. You went to dinner with Director Zeng? Old Chen, your subordinate is highly appreciated by Director Zeng. Don't make such jokes. Okay. Don't you have a dinner to attend? Hurry up, I won't see you out. Director Zhu. Learn more from Ji Xing. Put in more effort, do you hear me? I got it. Ji Xing, bye-bye. This... I will push to integrate Dongyang Medical's current Doctorcloud with AI diagnostic big data analytics and Xiaobai intelligent diagnostic robots to personalize and customize intelligent medical treatment. I will also broaden the field and develop new techniques such as 3D medical printing. I don't understand that concept of yours. But I know, just from listening, that it will require a massive initial investment. Given Dongyang Medical's current financial situation, I'm afraid it can't support the standard equipment production line and the development of smart medical care at the same time. Exactly right. So I plan to shut down part of the standard equipment production line. Shut down the production line? Han Ting, I have managed Dongyang Medical for many years. Of course, I know how grandfather holds Dongyang Medical to very high expectations. But you don't need to feel pressured to take such big steps. The production line for standard equipment has always been our Dongyang Medical's signature. You can't trample our own brand just because you want to pursue smart medical care. After all, Dongyang Medical is a listed company. When you set sail in the sea, a single wrong move can make it very difficult to return to the original course. Director Wang, what do you think? I think President Han's idea is quite good. Our Dongyang Medical business does indeed need to be upgraded. We need to keep up with the times. Old Wang, let's look at the entire country. Only Hanhai does 3D medical printing on a large scale. But Hanhai doesn't need external investments. President Han, what are your plans? Are we to start from zero? Hanhai has its current scale, which took them five or six years to build. I don't know if everyone here can wait that long. Uncle Yang, five or six years is too long. I can't wait either. How about two years? Within two years, I will certainly double Dongyang Medical's stock price. This is a pledge. As your elder sister, I have to remind you. It's good to be confident, but you must also understand your limits. Rest assured, sister. If I can't do it, I will take the blame and resign. Okay. If you're this confident, I will support you with all my might. [R &amp; D Director's Office] Manager Chen. Ji Xing, come in. Have a seat. You wanted to see me? Yesterday... Actually, Director Zeng took me to the dinner because... Ji Xing, in your eyes, am I someone who would mind subordinates socializing with the boss? no. That's not what I meant. I just felt I should let you know. [Xinggang City Science and Technology Award] have a seat. Ji Xing. You are the outstanding engineer of our Xiaobai project team. Dicrector Zeng took you out to introduce the product. That was most appropriate. I have so many projects on my hands. Director Zeng knows I'm busy. It's quite normal for you to go out and socialize with Director Zeng. Don't worry about it. By the way, the end of the year is approaching. I just wanted to talk to you about the year-end evaluation. You have contributed a lot to our project. You often work overtime until late at night. Every time Lin Zhen brings back a report, I can tell just by the format, coding, and labels that it was written by you. Over the past three years, everyone has witnessed your ability. That's good. I'll go to the HR Director to get you a promotion. Thank you, Manager Chen. I'm currently perfecting the proposal for Xiaobai Phase II. I'll show it to you soon. Workaholic. Look. Huang Wei Wei and the others are just asking about their leave. Only you are still thinking about work. As a leader, if I don't promote you, who should I promote? I've been with the Xiaobai project for a long time and I'm very attached to it. But aside from emotional aspects, there are practical factors as well. I hope to see a return that matches the effort. Don't worry. The project bonus for our department is about to come through. This time you've helped Director Zeng secure a collaboration with Ren'ai Hospital. Your contribution to Xiaobai is the most outstanding. You're definitely the one who deserves the highest project bonus. Thank you, Manager Chen. you can go back to work. Make sure you have fun and relax at the celebration banquet this weekend. - Okay. We must keep what we discussed today a secret. Understood. Go on. What's going on with Director Wang? Why did he speak up for Han Ting? I would guess Han Ting has something on him. He thinks by controlling one or two shareholders he can take over Dongyang Medical. He even dares to make a pledge to double the stock price in two years. This is like he's rushing to take a fall for all of us to see. Caution is the parent of safety. We can't be careless. Keep a close eye on him. See what he's really up to. We've worked hard for so many years. We can't let him benefit from this so easily. So cute. Your fur is so nice. If someone can't afford to keep it, just don't keep it. Such a pretty kitten and it almost became a stray. What do you mean &quot;almost&quot;? Wasn't it a stray cat to begin with? Who says so? It has an owner now. Who? Me. Then call it. Let's see if it comes out. Kitty. Kitty. Come to sister. Watch me. Come. Why do you have snacks? It's eating. Give it to me. Come out. So cute. So cute. Let's give it a name. What do you think we should name it? Today is Wednesday. Why don't we call it Wednesday? Wednesday? No. That won't work. I don't want it to feel like it was abandoned on a Wednesday. Right. Let's name it Dahuang. A rustic name is easy to live with. But it's not yellow. The &quot;huang&quot; that means &quot;glorious&quot;. Dahuang. Dahuang. The &quot;huang&quot; from &quot;glorious&quot;. Dahuang. From now on, your name is Dahuang. - Dahuang. Come out. Look, it knows its name is Dahuang. Dahuang. You're pretty calm. You've just made a pledge and you still have the leisure to come here and feed stray cats. Isn't that because I have you? I suspect you are flattering me to death, but I love to hear it. - Over at Hanhai, the follow-up must continue... I understand. The legal representative of Hanhai is an outsider, unknown to anyone. Not a whisper will be leaked. Is two years enough for you? Considering the current situation at Dongyang Medical, there's a mess of problems in business. Almost all the executives are Han Yuan's people. She thinks that throwing this mess at me will hold me back. Wait until the obstacles are cleared. Hanhai will once again unfold the future landscape of intelligent medical care for Dongyang Medical. I'm already looking forward to it. How are you planning to &quot;sweep clean&quot; as the new &quot;broom&quot;? No rush, take it slow. Back in Germany, I always saw you feeding stray cats. You still have this habit after returning to the country. I often used to feed a stray cat in college. But we parted, and I've always felt regret. I wonder if it ever had enough to eat afterward. I just hope all stray cats won't go hungry. That cat was fed by you and Ji Xing together, right? It really was. What else is there between you two that I don't know? Hurry and tell me about it. Boring. did Ji Xing continue to feed that cat after you went abroad? After the cat finishes eating, throw away the cans. Yi Chen. Xoing Xing, it's time for lunch, isn't it? I just knew you would be eating lunch. I'm stealing a moment from the busyness just to see you. When will you be free to return to Xinggang? You see, I have quite a few meetings and project agendas this time. It's probably going to be awhile before I'm done with everything. By the way, Xing Xing, is your work going smoothly these days? How's the project report? Very smoothly. I'm telling you, this bonus is in the bag. our leader said I would be up for a promotion. My Xing Xing is so awesome. Once the bonus is paid out, let's pool our money together and quickly put a down payment on that house. My mom is asking me to call her back. I'm sure she'll be pushing us to get married. then. Go talk to Auntie. bye. This is from my collection. You'll definitely look great in it. Wear this for the celebration banquet, okay? It's so beautiful. But won't it be too formal? Why don't I just wear something of my own? No way. That won't do. It's a celebration banquet. You worked on the project, and you contributed to the partnership. After all, you will be one of the main characters today. You must wear this and make a grand entrance. ability is your strength, but beauty is just as important. You've got to let them know, confidently, &quot;I'm both beautiful and capable.&quot; Sister Li is absolutely right. let's knock them dead with our beauty. stop eating watermelon. - Come on, time to do our makeup. - You must make a spectacular entrance. Dazzle them blind. [Guanghua Technology] - Ji Xing. - Go on then. You look really beautiful today. I have to bring honor to our R &amp; D department. there are so many people today. Director Zeng has really done it big this time. I heard that many clients came once they found out that Director Zeng had invited Director Han. They all came because of his reputation. I just realized today that Ji Xing is better suited for the sales department. It's a waste of talent to have her in our project development department. Shut your mouth. If you can't speak properly, don't speak at all. - President Han has arrived. There are so many people. President Han has arrived. Good evening, colleagues and partners of Guanghua. Welcome to Guanghua's annual celebration banquet. I hope everyone enjoys themselves tonight. Guanghua's success today would not be possible without the support and help of everyone here, especially my investor, President Han Ting of Dongyang Medical. I would like to invite President Han to say a few words to us. As an investor in Guanghua, I am very pleased to see the success of Xiaobai Phase I. Six years ago, when I proposed the concept for Xiaobai, there were many voices of doubt. It was Director Zeng's trust and the perseverance of Guanghua's employees that made Xiaobai what it is today. So I am not the star of tonight. It is Director Zeng and all the employees of Guanghua. You have all worked hard. Give us a red envelope, President Han! No problem. Feel free to discuss the bonus with Director Zeng. - The boss is so handsome that even the hard work is worth it. will bring even greater accomplishments. Xiaobai will surely become an important part of the smart healthcare revolution. Thank you. What President Han just said really resonated with me. Ten years ago, when we both went to Germany to study, he told me that he wanted to develop diagnostic and therapeutic robots. they knew each other from that long ago. Without his companionship, I wouldn't have had the courage to embark on the entrepreneurial path. Xiaobai has stumbled all the way to where it is today. I am very grateful that I have not disappointed President Han's expectations of me. Han Ting, without you, Guanghua wouldn't be where it is today. I want to say something to you today. Thank you. Of course, - I didn't realize you and Director Zeng had such a deep connection. This is also the fruit of everyone's hard work and struggle. I believe that with everyone's efforts... I think the two of you are quite a good match. Please continue to support Guanghua in the future, our partners in the industry. I am speaking in terms of work. With Director Zeng as your lucky charm, you'll have smooth sailing at Dongyang Medical. - True. eat well, drink well, and enjoy tonight. In one hour's time, we will have a lucky draw ceremony worth over a million yuan. I wish everyone happiness and good luck. Ji Xing, I saw you the moment I entered. Director Zhao. Did you receive the flowers I sent you? - I did receive them. - Thank you. - But... You introduced Xiaobai to me. So with our upcoming collaboration with Guanghua, you'll be our contact with the project. Well... You are joking. How can a product engineer be in charge of contact business? If Director Zeng asked her to become the official contact with business, I guess Guanghua would be in big trouble. That's right, Director Zhao. Don't put Ji Xing on the spot. As for the subsequent matters, I've already arranged for our Sales Director Zhu Lei to take over. Then let's go with Director Zeng's plan. But if Xiaobai encounters any problems later, I will still come to you. Okay. Director Zhao, take it easy. carry on with your conversation. You're leaving? Take care. Director Zhao, let me toast you. I hope our future collaboration will go smoothly. [Smile] May our cooperation be successful. As you expected. I sent the Doctorcloud information to Dr. Jiang for a review. He liked it very much. Tonight at ten, he'll transfer to Xinggang to fly to Switzerland. He can only stay for two hours. I'm driving to the airport now. I'll let you know once he's ready to get off the plane. Let's meet at the airport later. Okay. This model is quite realistic. What are you doing here? You don't like the atmosphere inside? I'm just a technical staff member. I don't need to discuss feelings with the people in there. Why are you here, President Han? Don't you like the atmosphere inside? - Actually... - Ji Xing. You look really good today. Thank you, Director Zeng. Let's go in. Everyone is waiting for you. Old Chen. How's my brother-in-law Lin Zhen doing these days? Don't worry. It's up to me to decide who gets credit for this project. But you need to make him work harder. He can't always rely on Ji Xing's plans and reports to get his numbers. Isn't that right? You're absolutely right. I'll go back and teach him a lesson. I offered the lowest prices for those agents you introduced. Speaking of which, Ji Xing from your department is really something. She settled things with Director Zhao over just one meal. How about inviting her to our department? Cut it out. I knew you wouldn't want to let her go. But I have to warn you, that Ji Xing is incredibly ambitious. She managed to bypass you and attend a dinner with Director Zeng. Maybe tomorrow, she could take your place. I've thought of that already. The other day, the HR Director talked to me about staff promotion. I even purposely spoke well of her. Manager Chen, you're quite capable. Young people. Just sweet-talk her a little, and she'll be completely devoted. I tricked her into thinking I would promote her. You should see how happy it made her. She's so eager that she would sacrifice everything. You're the master of drawing pies in the sky. It's just making empty promises, after all. No legal responsibility involved.