Imagine you're analysis on some that you're developing. And the hardware is which applies random And you measure how the hardware This measurement is captured And, therefore, what you of data that is sampled Now, in the case of many other helpful to look at the that is, to separate signal into the frequency And, once we have now we might choose to look or the power spectrum or And each of these provide that we can't get from Now, with finite discrete the first step to getting to is the Discrete Fourier And the most efficient is using a Fast Fourier And so, for this video, is answer a few common regarding the DFT and the FFT. I think it's going to be So I hope you stick I'm Brian and welcome All right, so, to begin we want to ask is, the discrete Fourier transform? Well, the DFT transforms a or a spatial domain into the frequency domain. And one of the main reasons is because the features of a are not always obvious in For example, here I have that are sampled at 200 hertz. And the question I have has a significant It's not terribly They both look pretty similar. But if we transform them it's much easier to answer. I mean, it's clearly because there's this So we can use the to understand the frequency To understand how the DFT is we should look at the equation. And I know that there's but it's actually This blue variable x sub n is that we're starting with. And we're going to transform signal x sub k. And, to do this, we with this yellow part, which is And if you're not familiar this is equal to the cosine times the sine of the exponent. So, essentially, is multiplying the time signal of a particular frequency And then it's And we do this summation or for different frequencies. All right, now, I think we can this equation works with just a All right, I made a to show you how the DFT works. Here the time signal x wave with 10 samples. So, per the we multiply this to an imaginary exponent, which the correlating signal. And, hopefully, the name Now, if we set k equals 0, is just e to the a constant real value of 1 And, when we multiply and then sum the result, we And, mathematically, we multiply the we get the exact And so, essentially, the values in our time signal. And there are equal that's these four right here-- as there are negative And so they cancel each And the way that we can think is that our time domain signal with a signal with 0. Frequency. Now let's move on to a new k equals 1. Our correlating of a sine and cosine wave with of the time signal. And if we multiply these with x the value is larger. And we can visually see signal is near the same And so, at least for which is perfectly out of the product of the 2 And, therefore, the summation So there's a strong correlation And if we move to k equals 2, And this is all It's going through n where k goes from 0 to n minus between it and the time signal. That's pretty cool, that as producing the correlation and a bunch of But there's another can think about the DFT. And that is as a rotation If we go back to can rewrite it as a matrix is just a 1 by n vector And the yellow by n matrix of complex numbers. And the first column corresponds associated with k equals 0. And the second and so on, all the way And now, when you perform for the first component we get the inner product and the frequencies The second component is equals 1 and so So, in this form, to see that the this rotation between one set of into another, this And this n by n achieving that rotation from And, actually, this is a good transform. This matrix multiplication if the length of the If there's only 10 samples, But if you're working has thousands or tens then performing this could become But it turns out that, in this multiplication, a lot of And so you can perform and then populate that And FFT algorithms of duplicate operations of overall calculations. So they produce the exact just in a more efficient way. And, for a good explanation and how these computational made the DFT a viable option check out Veritasium's Link is in the All right, now that we know that to calculate the DFT, I want to to answer a few and dive a little and interpret the results. And the first question just look at the absolute Well, recall that the ft And the way that we is that the real how well the time signal of a given frequency. And the imaginary it correlates to a sine And knowing both of if you want to know the in your original want to be able to reconstruct from frequency data. But if all you're interested of the frequency, that is, how there is in your signal, then you just have to look So, for many signal like answering our you don't need a real to determine that. You just need the magnitude. So we take the absolute All right, so, for I want to talk about between a one-sided The answer involves that the FFT returns and the negative And if you take the equals 0 and go up to then the positive and the negative frequencies And the Nyquist frequency is This is based on the Nyquist states that we can only to 1/2 of the sampling rate. Now, sometimes it's helpful that the negative and the positive But it's not necessary understand which are negative All right, so back If you're looking at the then this is a two-sided FFT you're just looking at the side of the spectrum. And why would we do this? I mean, why would we throw Well, first off, if x sub is, it's not complex, and of the FFT of x sub n, is mirrored between the positive And we can see why Let me hide the time see the correlating signal. We know that, when corresponds to 0 frequency. It's neither positive But, for k equals has a period of the And going to k equals has a period 1/2 of the And this continues We get 1/3 and 1/4 and so on, frequency. Now, I know that this is going But if we increase the frequency And not just that, but the And we can see that a Notice that between k equals negative frequency, and k positive frequency, is the exact same frequency. It's just negative. Now, you'll notice that the real here. And that's because cosine So the cosine of is the same as the cosine But the imaginary since sine is an odd function. This means that, between the magnitude of the And the same is true for k and so on until we reach Now, k equals 0 and k equals are both unique duplicated anywhere else. So we want to keep both in a one-sided FFT, of the positive frequencies. So, when there's an even like we have here with n equals we need to keep n divided by And that plus 1 accounts However, if we have an say, n equals 11, get the Nyquist because it sort of gets between k equals And, therefore, we take n divided by 2, left over since it's odd. And, therefore, So for 11 samples, the one-sided All right, we keep talking frequencies. But I haven't explained how to the exact spectrum frequency. We know that k equals 0 And I mentioned earlier to a frequency with a period signal and that k equals in that same period and so on. So k up to the Nyquist frequency within a time period equal to signal. So if we want our in hertz or in then it's just k cycles of seconds in the signal. Or we can write this as k times by the number of samples. So we can plot the using this conversion. Now, you might also And this is the width of each So if we go back to the spectrum bin width is just the between each of these samples. So how far is it between And then from sample one And we already know this answer. We just set k equals And we get the width For example, I have that has a dominant And I have 0.1 seconds The FFT is on the right. And we can see that we have and there's this small Now, if we want a it's as easy as using or just using more samples. Watch, as I increase the bin width gets smaller. And we can also see that starts to become obvious. And this is because, we're also increasing We're getting more However, we can also without having to And we can do that simply by For example, if we start seconds of data and we add then we can see that once However, even though this it's not increasing We're essentially the frequency signal and filling Adding 0's doesn't change the since we're not adding And we can see that here It's more like a little bump. All right, I hope that all is making sense. And I know we've talked about of the FFT. So I think, to help and maybe make approaching the let's walk through writing in a MATLAB live script. All right, to start, I have It's just a pure And there's 40 samples So I've got 1 second of data. So now let's build And, first off, let's just and then plot the be how someone new might start. It's like, hey, I took the what it looks like. But since the result is you plot it, it shows both the on a single graph. And it doesn't really So, instead, we could plot the on two separate graphs. However, for this want to look at the magnitude of by taking the absolute value. And check this out, mirrored about the Nyquist Now, to get the look at half of the spectrum. But, of course, since I have we need that plus one in the Nyquist frequency as well. So so far, so want to plot this against So we have k going from 0 to samples in our one-sided FFT. And we convert that to by the sample frequency divided And, finally, we can plot this. And, as expected, the Now, you might often see that to account for the information that we excluded. But if your goal is which frequencies make then the scaling For example, we can see component in our signal. And it doesn't matter that doesn't relate to Now, scaling the one-sided if you want to like how much power is But we're going to spectrum in a future video. And we're going to All right, so, hopefully, each of these steps to get And if you want to or check out some where you can learn to everything down below. Now, don't forget to so that you don't miss And, also, you can find across many different at mathworks.com. And if you liked might be interested to transform in our video All right, thanks for watching. And I'll see you next time.