Hello my love. Welcome to guided affirmations by Lavendaire. Today, we will be healing our inner child with powerful affirmations for self love, protection, and safety. These affirmations are designed to nurture and heal the deepest parts of yourself, helping you feel loved, safe, and secure. Listen to this audio every day for 21 days, as part of your daily routine. I will repeat each affirmation twice, and then give you time to repeat after me. Feel free to recite these affirmations in your mind or out loud. I am safe. I am protected. I am safe. I am protected. I am loved and cherished. I am loved and cherished. I am worthy of love and care. I am worthy of love and care. I am gentle with myself. I am gentle with myself. I am healing my inner child. I am healing my inner child. I am kind to myself. I am kind to myself. I am worthy of all the love I am worthy of all the love I am surrounded by love. I am surrounded by love. I am nurturing my inner child. I am nurturing my inner child. I am safe to express my true self. I am safe to express my true self. I am healing old wounds I am healing old wounds I am proud of who I am. I am proud of who I am. I am deserving of happiness and joy. I am deserving of happiness and joy. I am creating a safe space for my inner child. I am creating a safe space for my inner child. I am patient and loving with myself. I am patient and loving with myself. I am forgiving to myself and others. I am forgiving to myself and others. With peace, I move forward with a lighter heart. With peace, I move forward with a lighter heart. I am receiving the love and healing that I need. I am receiving the love and healing that I need. I am embracing my inner child with love. I am embracing my inner child with love. I am gentle and kind to my inner self. I am gentle and kind to my inner self. I am protected and secure. I am worthy of all the good in life. I am surrounded by I am healing and growing every day. I am enough just as I am. I am free to be myself. I am always worthy. I am deserving of self love and compassion. I am open to receiving love and healing. I am grateful for the love in my life. I am healing my heart. I am embracing my true self with love and kindness. I am safe. I am loved. I am safe. I am protected. I am loved and cherished. I am worthy of love and care. I am gentle with myself. I am kind to myself. I am worthy of all the love I am surrounded by love. I am nurturing my inner child. I am safe to express my true self. I am healing old wounds I am proud of who I am. I am deserving of happiness and joy. I am creating a safe space for my inner child. I am patient and loving with myself. I am forgiving to myself and others. With peace, I move forward with a lighter heart. I am receiving the love and healing that I need. I am embracing my inner child with love. I am gentle and kind to my inner self. I am protected and secure. I am worthy of all the good in life. I am surrounded by I am healing and growing every day. I am enough just as I am. I am free to be myself. I am always worthy. I am deserving of self love and compassion. I am open to receiving love and healing. I am grateful for the love in my life. I am healing my heart. I am embracing my true self I am safe. I am loved. Repeat these affirmations every day, or as you need them, and enjoy the positive changes they bring to your life. As you nurture your inner healing and self-love, I'd love to introduce you to a transformative tool--the 2025 Artist of Life Workbook. This isn't just a journal; it's a guide to help you gain clarity, set powerful intentions, stay accountable throughout the year, and create meaningful changes in your life. If you're ready to unlock deeper healing, set purposeful goals, and become the best version of yourself, this workbook is your guide. You can find it at shop.lavendaire.com Sending you love &amp; light. Namaste.