Alright look, if you're a beginner or even you don't need a million scales to come up with killer bass lines. All you need are just Five easy to learn notes, powerful enough to create Five notes that get you out of boring root note jail on the wrong note in the middle of a jam. What are these five magical notes? Say hello to the pentatonic of music for bazillions of A scale so intuitively good sounding that Bobby McFerrin can magically to sing it just by jumping around. But here's the thing it's simple to just learn these pentatonic scale And you go, &quot;Mwahaha, But that's like buying a bunch of meat and veg with no recipe and expecting to be the Iron Chef. So how do you actually these five tasty notes, to create killer grooves every single time? It's simple. You gotta learn the recipes, which in our non-cooking When you learn scales through you see how great musicians before you have put these notes together, and there's no more epic that than... By learning this riff, you can skip the pain or what whole steps and half If you just play through these notes, you uncover your first A shape is a visual pattern so you can find your way around easily. And the easiest way to learn shapes is by learning actual riffs that you enjoy playing like this. And the cool thing about these around the fretboard and they still work even if you have to change your fingering like I just did when So now you know a pentatonic scale shape. And you should instantly be just as cool as &quot;Bombtrack&quot; and be immediately inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. I just like to thank the And oh, gosh, who could Well, not so much 'cause the and the scale shape gets those ingredients prepped on the counter for you. But you still need to study the recipe, how to mix the ingredients in what amounts to cook up your own tasty riffs. And I hope you're enjoying the So here's how they cooked with a simple three-step recipe. Step one, the riff the low starting note of the scale shape that tells your listener or what cuisine you're trying to cook up. And step two, it also of the scale. So starting on the root the higher sounding and then wiggles its way down the scale, never jumping beyond the next note in the shape in either direction, which gives the riff a nice flowing sound, avoiding any angular awkwardness that might plague your This riff also uses something I hear a lot of beginners totally missing a trick to keep you from getting bored with your riffs sounding super repetitive. And without it, this riff and you'd be super sick of hearing it. But &quot;Bombtrack&quot; keeps you coming back by using the third step So the initial riff goes like this. But then there's a slight then it goes back to the original. Then there's another So instead of hearing the you hear one long interesting riff. But is this three step to turn your five notes Let's find out here's the same and here's a kind of crappy riff. That's not very good, right? Thanks, I came up with it myself. So let's try to fix it you learned from &quot;Bombtrack&quot;. So first we gotta start on the root note, the starting note of the scale shape 'cause that makes it clear to the listener where their ear is supposed to be anchored and gives them the context of your riff. And second, we gotta reorganize the notes to have more sequential notes so it flows a little bit better. That's not a hard and fast rule, but it's helpful to make it more foolproof when you're starting out. So this sounds better, but it still gets kind of annoying after a few rounds, right? So that's where step three longer phrases is a secret weapon. So I'll just change it up a And magically, the riff doubles in length, you hear it half as many times So you've gotta start cooking But to draw on the full you're gonna need a few more And here's the problem you static meaning no shifting your fingers around the fretboard required. And you can use this static of great pentatonic riffs. But other riffs won't really work with this shape like this banger. This riff uses the same pentatonic scale, but it's not played using the same shape. And you'll see in a minute how this leads to even more riff recipe ideas. But it all starts with bassist Laura Lee's approach to playing. Or downplay with all four of my fingers because I attach two Because of that, I think and it changes the feel And in my free time I love Just clicking that button What she means is she attaches her ring and pinky fingers together so she only frets index middle pinky. And that means she doesn't like using that static pentatonic with a four fret span from She prefers to stay in a which in her words creates a limitation. But for me it's fun and bouncy. So here's how you play using the shifting shape, which requires two to play through the scale. So you start on your pinky you grab the next two notes, index pinky, and then you shift your and finish the last few notes. And not only is this &quot;fun and bouncy,&quot; it also allows you to add slides in your riffs if you want to when you're changing position. So you've got the right shape. But now you need to understand So this one also starts on the root note, also uses sequential scale notes. And it's a nice long four bar phrase. So it's using all the same but hidden in this riff is a fourth step that gives you even 'Cause you might notice not seem to fit in the scale box. These notes right here, So what gives, Josh? Have you been lying about You lying deceptive person. Nope, Lee is just using to stretch the possibilities of the scale. And here's how it works. She took these two notes of the shape and played them one octave higher. So the octave is the next and you always find it on and two frets apart. So you copy-paste those two notes by hunting up two strings And now you can safely knowing they're gonna and fit in the same scale. And as you might have noticed, as much as I'm trying to an absolute minimum to it would be extremely helpful root notes, octaves, scales, major, minor, chord, progressions. Not to mention having the fretting and plucking technique to actually pull off a riff like this. And all that is just a in my complete Step-by-Step By the end of it, you've got all the to nail riffs like this in your sleep, and jam your own dope bass So let's see how this August 10 recipe works in the real world. Here's another kind of So let's run this Starting on the root note, check. Sequential notes, sure. But that move I'm trying to do here is not working well with the static shape. So if I switch to the shifting shape, those notes end up on the same string, and this riff flows a So that's better, but it's So let's use the copy-paste to expand the note options. Plus we'll lengthen the phrase, and now we have this much closer to Khruangbin level coolness. &quot;Bombtrack&quot; and &quot;August 10&quot; are just a couple of the infinity riffs that use the ultimate The minor pentatonic scale. Yes, there are actually two you need to know. Major and minor each with If you know both, you can play cool s**t on any song, any time. So you just learned two shapes which is the scale for and sounding automatically badass. But learning minor pentatonic 'cause what if a happy sounding and clashes with your badass To cover your a** in this You'll need the scale that's Yeah baby, it's the guitar This riff is a classic for good times scale the major pentatonic. While minor pentatonic has the major pentatonic, it just tastes like Mr. Rogers Or whatever your shameful And if you learn the My Girl riff, you've already learned the static shape for the major pentatonic scale. 'cause it's literally the You just start the shape 'cause after middle pinky, with your index for those And depending on where you may need to micro shift That's totally cool. The micro riff runs on the steam of some of the same recipe steps, but it's an even simpler two-step recipe. Step one starts on the root note and step two uses sequential It does not have a variation So if you just play it over and But that's solved in the song because guitarist Robert to a new starting root note every bar to follow the chord progression. So it feels less repetitive. And because the major pentatonic simple recipes work well. And it's actually pretty as long as you start on the root note. Here's me trying to using a C major pentatonic. No. This all kind of sounds fine. The only way you can really go wrong with major pentatonic is if you're trying to use a scale shape that Like if you tried to plop the static shape onto this next classic riff. Just like with minor pentatonic, it's important to learn the shifting shape so you can really cook Try to play this riff And it sounds like this, It doesn't quite sound right, and you lose those cool slidey sounds. So the crazy little shape looks like this. Again, you can keep that and just fret index pinky. And the shape isn't better it just gives different sounds. It works great for this riff, but it wouldn't work as well for My Girl. It just feels clunky. It So knowing both shapes gives And this riff really that shifting shape. First of all, we're starting on the, you guessed it, root note. *Ding, ding, ding* playing mostly sequential notes. We're just skipping over the And this is actually a super common blues pattern that Deacy adapted. But what really makes it he incorporated in those position shifts. A slide that's not possible 'cause that note would be and there'd be nowhere to slide to. Check it out. Here's an okay but kind of But if we make like a we can get a lot more flavor. You can get a similar effect using hammer on's and pull offs. Every classic pentatonic to your personal recipe collection. So your own riffs get But as your ideas get more advanced, you gotta make sure your technique and speed can still keep up. So click here for a simple that'll level up your fretting, and your ability to click on Pentatonics!