- Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science for everyday life. [energetic music] I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of at Stanford School of Medicine. Today, we are going to and what drives you to do We're going to talk about but also how dopamine and our feelings of wellbeing. And of course, any has to include a discussion for dopamine induced addiction. Indeed, dopamine lies at to all things. But today we are mainly going to focus on, how what we do and how we do it, and how we conceptualize those things leads to changes in this amazing molecule in our brain and bodies I'm going to teach you what There are a lot of myths We often hear about Today, we are going to about dopamine, and we are going to talk about We're going to discuss the psychology. We will discuss some neural circuits and a really exciting or so-called dopamine schedules. In other words, we are going to discuss how things like food, drugs, even some plant-based compounds can change our baseline levels of they change how much dopamine from what could be very satisfying events, or events that make us feel not so good because of things that So I promise you it's going but I will structure it for you, and you'll come away of really what drives you. You will also come away how to leverage dopamine so drive and motivation for the things that are important to you Before we dive into the I'd like to share with that really underscores what dopamine is capable of in our brains and bodies, and underscores the fact no drugs, nothing of that sort, just through behaviors, we can achieve terrifically that are very long and This is a result that was published in the European Journal of Physiology. I'll go into it in more detail later, but essentially what it involved get into water of different temperatures. So it was warm water, moderately cool water Had them stay in that and they measured by way of blood draw things like cortisol, What was fascinating is led to very rapid and epinephrine, which is also just called adrenaline. It also led to increases in dopamine. And these increases in They kicked in around 10 or into the cold water. And I should mention the is just up to the neck. And the dopamine release continued to rise and rise and rise, and eventually reached Now, what was interesting of this cold water, that dopamine increase was sustained. And I know nowadays many in using cold water therapy as and fat loss, but also to improve sense of well-being, improve cognition, There's something really but calm state of mind that seems to be the one that's optimal for pretty much everything except sleep, but for all aspects of work and for sport that highly alert, but calm state of mind that I believe most of And this cold water really can help people through these increases in dopamine that lasts a very long time. So I will later detail the what it entailed in terms of how long, the variations, the different as well as how to limit the cortisol, that's released as a consequence of the cold water. And we will also talk about that people can take in order to increase their levels of dopamine Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of to bring zero cost to consumer and science related tools In keeping with that theme, I'd like to thank the Our first sponsor is Roka. Roka makes sunglasses and eyeglasses that are of the absolute highest quality. I've spent a lifetime And I can tell you that the visual system has to go through a lot of work in order to main clarity of what you see when there are shadows, when you go into different and so on. And a lot of glasses don't work well because you put them on, and then you're in bright but then you move into a shadow and then you have to take them or they don't adjust quickly enough. With Roka their eyeglasses with the visual system biology in mind. So you always see things The glasses are also terrific because they're very lightweight, and they won't slip off your if you're running or biking. In fact, they were of being able to be worn in those sorts of activities I happen to wear readers at night or when I drive or when I work, and I love their sunglasses And also the aesthetics of are terrific. Unlike a lot of other performance glasses that frankly make people The aesthetics on Roka's You could wear them If you'd like to try Roka glasses, you can go to www.roka.com. That's R-O-K-A.com and to save 20% off your first order. That's Roka, www.R-O-K-A.com. Enter the code Huberman at checkout. Today's podcast is also InsideTracker is a that analyzes data from your blood and DNA to help you better understand your body and help you reach your health goals. I'm a big believer in getting And now with the advent you can also analyze your DNA to see what you ought to be and long-term health. We hear a lot these optimizing hormones, optimizing this, optimizing that, but unless you know the hormones and other things that you don't know what to optimize. With InsideTracker it makes They can come to your house to or you can go to a nearby clinic. They send you the information And unlike a lot of laboratories and DNA tests, they have a simple platform, a dashboard that walks you through your results and helps you identify or behavioral or other types of practices you might want to in order to positively and long-term health. It's a very easy system to use, and you will gain a ton of information simply by doing that test. Whether or not you end up making changes to what you're doing or not. If you'd like to try InsideTracker, you can go to to get 25% off any of Just use the code Huberman at checkout. Today's episode is also Headspace is a meditation app and has over 600,005 star reviews. I've been meditating for a long time, but I confess sometimes I meditate and sometimes I'm very Ideally, I would meditate but what I found over the years is that, I'll start a meditation practice and then as life gets which is exactly when I I tend to meditate less often. Switching over to Headspace really helped me stay consistent with my meditation practice. And that's because they have to select from. Some are short, some are longer. And in general, I try and in every day, but some days it's just five minutes and they have some terrific The science says that even can be beneficial for and body. If you want to try Headspace, you can go to And if you do that, you'll get one month as a free trial with full library of meditations that you can use in any situation. This is the best deal offered So if you're interested, go to www.headspace.com/specialoffer to get one free one month full library of meditations. I'd like to announce that there's an event that some of you may find very useful. This is an event put on by Logitech that I will be speaking at. It's called Rethink Education, the Biology of Learning through Neuroscience. And at this event, I will be speaking, there will be other speakers as well, and I will be talking and its applications for I will describe what I call that incorporates all of what efficient learning and the It's geared towards It is zero cost. So please feel free to sign up. The event is September 30th, You can find the registration for this episode. So let's talk about dopamine. Most people have heard of dopamine, and we hear all the time But actually there's no such And actually the way that is to have a baseline level of dopamine. Meaning an amount of in your brain and body all the time. And that turns out to be generally, whether or not motivated, et cetera. And you also can experience above baseline. Now, this has a very specific name in the neurobiology literature, so-called tonic and phasic And I'll explain what that But if you remember nothing please remember this, that when you experience really desirable, really exciting What happens afterwards of dopamine drops. Okay? So these peaks in dopamine, they influence how much dopamine will generally be circulating afterward. And you might think, oh, a big I'm going to feel even better because I just had this great event. Not the case. What actually happens is of dopamine drops. And I will explain the Okay? In the neuroscience literature, we refer to this as tonic and Tonic being the low level baseline that's always there circulating, released into your brain all the time. And then phasic these peaks And those two things interact. And this is really important. I'm going to teach you the but even if you have no I promise to make it all clear. I'll explain the terms and what they mean. And I'm excited to teach because dopamine has everything right now as you're listening to this, it has everything to do an hour from now, has everything to do with and your level of desire, and your willingness If ever you've interacted with somebody who just doesn't seem to have or if you've interacted with somebody who seems to have what you are looking at there is without question a difference in the level of dopamine There will be other factors too, but the level of dopamine of how motivated we how outward facing we are to lean into life and pursue things. Dopamine is what we call a neuromodulator. Neuromodulators are different Neurotransmitters are between neurons nerve cells. And neurotransmitters tend to Just imagine two people talking that communication to the communication carried whereas neuromodulators of many neurons. Imagine a bunch of people dancing where it's a coordinated or hundreds of people. Neuromodulators are In the nervous system dopamine release changes the probability that certain neural and that other neural Okay? So it modulates a bunch and that's why it's so not just our levels of energy, but also our mindset, also our feelings of or cannot accomplish something. So how does dopamine Well, first of all, it is not it is responsible for Primarily, at the psychological level, also for craving. Those three things are sort of the same. Motivation, drive and craving. It also controls time perception, and we will get deep into how dopamine can modulate time perception, and how important it is to access increases in dopamine This turns out to be important to substances, but it also turns out to be and be a happy person Which I think most everybody wants. It certainly is adaptive in Dopamine is also vitally I'll explain the neural circuits and dopamine in movement in a moment, but in diseases like Parkinson's which is similar to There's a depletion or at a particular location in the brain which leads to shaky movements, challenges and speaking, challenges in particular And because dopamine is depleted elsewhere to people with Parkinson's and Lew's bod, excuse me, Lewy body dementia in motivation and affect, meaning mood. They tend to get depressed and so on. When those people are properly treated, they can, not always, but they can recover some some ability to initiate movement. And almost without question, those people feel better psychologically, not just because they can move, but also because dopamine So what are the underlying For those of you that are and specific nomenclature, you can tune out now if you want, but it's actually pretty straightforward. You have two main neural that dopamine uses in order The first one is a pathway in the what's called That's a fancy, but and tegmentum actually means floor. So it's at the bottom of the brain, and it's the ventral part of the floor. So it's really low in the ventral tegmentum. And it goes from the ventral tegmentum to what's called the ventral striatum and the prefrontal cortex. Now, that's a lot of language, but basically what we call this is the, mesocorticolimbic pathway. This is the pathway by which drive and craving. It involves structures that of before. Things like nucleus accumbens This is the pathway that in addictions where in the release of dopamine like We'll talk about those drugs today. They tap into this pathway. But if you are pursuing a partner, a boyfriend or girlfriend, if you're pursuing a degree in school, if you're pursuing a you are tapping into this so-called mesecorticolimbic pathway. This is the classic reward The other pathway emerges called the substantia nigra. So-called because the cells and the substantia nigra called the dorsal striatum. This is not surprisingly called For those of you who have I'm going to teach you a Everything in neuroanatomy, the first part of a word tells And then the second part tells you where they are connecting to. So when I say nigropstriatal pathway, it means that the neurons and they connect to the So while it's a lot of language Okay? So we've got these two pathways. One, mainly for movement, right? This is the substantia And we've got this other pathway, the so-called mesocorticolimbic pathway, that's for reward, I want you to remember that If you don't remember the that's fine. But please remember that because that turns out Now, the other thing to the way that dopamine is can differ. Meaning it can be very local, or it can be more broad. Now, most of you have Synapses are the little and basically neurons with one another by making or by making each other So here's how this works. You can imagine one nerve with a little gap between them, a little synapse. And the way that one nerve cell causes the next nerve cell to fire. What we call fire really means is that it vomits out what we call vesicles. They're little bubbles when that chemical enters the synapse, it some of it docks or in the other neuron. And by virtue of what we call the postsynaptic neuron, that chemical will make that or less electrically active. Dopamine can do that like or neuromodulator. So it can have one neuron But dopamine can also engage in what's called a volume metric release. Volumetric release is like a or a hundred or even thousands of cells. So there's local release what and then there's volumetric release. So volumetric release is like into the system. So dopamine is incredible that our neural circuits and at a very broad scale. And for those of you that like how do I get more dopamine? Let me tell you this because if you were to that increases your level of dopamine, you are influencing both the and volumetric release. This relates back to and the big peak above baseline. And that turns out to be important. And I'll just allude Many drugs and indeed many supplements that increase dopamine will for you to sustain dopamine release over long periods of time. And to achieve those peaks when we are in pursuit of things. Why? Because if you get both the dumping out of dopamine everywhere, and you're getting local release, what it means is that the and baseline is likely to be smaller. And this is very important, how satisfying or exciting or pleasureful a given experience is, doesn't just depend on it depends on the height to the baseline. So if you increase the baseline you're not going to achieve from things. I'll talk about how to in a little bit, but just increasing your dopamine. Yes, it will make you It will make you feel very motivated, but it will also make that So there's a better way There's a better way to optimize this peak to baseline ratio. For now what we've talked about one for movement, and one for motivation And we've talked about two between neurons with dopamine. One is this local synaptic release. One is more volume metric release. And in the back of your mind, you can relate this back to, again, this baseline versus So that's a description the spatial effects or the I said this connects to that, that connects to this. You can get local or more What about the duration of release or the duration of action for dopamine? Well, dopamine is unique because dopamine unlike a works through what are called And for those of you that from the amount of detail, just hang in there with me. It's really not complicated. There are two ways that or mainly two ways. There are third and fourth, but mostly neurons One, are what we call ionotropic conduction. All right? You don't need to know what that means, but basically one neuron and little holes open up in that neuron, and ions rush in. Sodium is the main ion salt by which one neuron influences of another neuron because Okay? There are other things like If you're interested in looking this up, just look up ionic conductances or I could do a post on it some time and we could go into detail. But just understand that when neurons want to influence each other, they can do it by way of this This is a really quick way for one neuron to influence the next. Dopamine doesn't communicate that way. Dopamine is slower. It works through what are receptors. So what happens is dopamine is released in these little vesicles get vomited out into the synapse. Some of that dopamine will bind to the so-called postsynaptic neuron, it'll bind to the next neuron, and then it sets off a cascade. It's kind of like a bucket getting handed off to the next, to the next, to the next. It's G protein-coupled receptors. And anytime you hear about these GPCRs or G protein-coupled receptors, pay attention because They're slow, but they also can have They can impact even gene They can change what a They can change how well will respond to the same So dopamine works through These G protein-coupled receptors. And so its effects tend to This aspect of dopamine because it now underscores two things. One, there's two pathways One for movement, one for motivation and craving. There's two spatial scales synaptically or volumetrically. And dopamine can have slow effects, really slow effects, or even very long lasting effects. And it even can control gene expression. It can actually change One thing that's not often but is extremely important to know is that dopamine doesn't work on its own. Neurons that release dopamine Glutamate is a neurotransmitter and it's a neurotransmitter meaning it stimulates neurons So now even if you don't you should start to gain a picture that dopamine is responsible for movement, motivation and drive. It does that through two pathways, but also the dopamine because it releases this It tends to make certain or even that are far away, because of volumetric release, it tends to make those more active. So dopamine is really stimulating. And indeed we say that or dopamine tends to Sympathetic doesn't have It's just simply means that it tends to increase our levels of alertness. It tends to bring an animal or a human into a state of more alertness, readiness and desire to pursue of its skin. So if I were to just put around dopamine it would be, there's a molecule in your brain and body that when released tends to pursue things outside yourself, and to crave things outside yourself. The pleasure that arrives also involves dopamine, but is mainly the consequences But if ever you felt and you had no motivation or drive, that's a low dopamine state. If ever you felt really even if you're a little Maybe you did your first skydive, or you're about to do your first skydive, or you're about to do some public speaking and you really don't want to screw it up, you are in a high dopamine state. Dopamine is a universal but especially in humans and how much dopamine is in compared to how much a few minutes ago, and how much we remember of the past. That dictates your and your desire to pursue things. This is really important. Dopamine is a currency, and it's the way that you track pleasure. It's the way that you track success. It's the way that you track whether or not you are And that is subjective, but if your dopamine is too low, you will not feel motivated. If your dopamine is really high, you will feel motivated. And if your dopamine is how you feel depends on whether or not you had higher dopamine a few This is important, your experience of life and and drive depends on how much to your recent experience. This is again, something for in the simple Okay? A simple way to envision dopamine hits is every time you do something you like, you to piece of chocolate, dopamine hit. You look at your Instagram, dopamine hit. You see someone you like, dopamine hit. All these things neglect the fact that if and you see something you really like, dopamine hit. Sure there's an increase in dopamine, but then you get to hmm, not that interesting. However, had you arrived you might think that it If you had arrived to three days later or four days later, you might find it extremely interesting. Again, how much dopamine you depends on your baseline level of dopamine when you arrive there, and your previous dopamine peaks. Okay? That's super important to understand, and it's completely neglected of dopamine hits. This is why when you that you enjoy, your threshold for enjoyment So I want to talk about that process. And I want to explain because if you understand that process, and you understand some of as we call them around dopamine, you will be in a terrific position to use any dopamine enhancing You'll be in an excellent and control your own dopamine release for optimal motivation and drive. I realized that was a lot of information about the biology of dopamine, sort of like trying to make you drink from the fire hose of dopamine biology. However, I realized that some people probably want even more information about the biology of If you're interested in that, I'll post a link to a that was published in called spatial and temporal It is quite detailed, but they have beautiful diagrams and can walk you through all the things that I just described and We'll put a link to that Right now, I want to share one from my own life, and one from some fairly recent history that illustrate some of the and how profoundly it The first one is a really This was in the 80s, there was a outbreak of what symptoms in a young population. So many of you heard Parkinson's disease is a disease start to quake, can't they'll have issues with speech, sometimes cognition as well. There are examples like Michael J. Fox, which are kind of early onset. Parkinson's typically it hits people a little bit later in life. There's a genetic component. But there is this question, and there's always been this question whether or not certain lifestyle factors can also create Parkinson's? And some years ago there was a situation where street laboratories, illicit laboratories were called MPPP, which is an It's a bit like heroin, and heroin addicts seeking what they thought was MPPP. Unfortunately, it was not MPPP. I mean, it would have been because they were drug addicts, but what they ended up taking What they ended up taking was MPTP, and MPTP can arise in So someone in a lab someplace, this was mainly in the but elsewhere as well. Somebody created MPTP, and what ended up happening of young people who were opioid addicts became completely boxed in paralyzed. Couldn't speak, couldn't blink, couldn't do anything. Couldn't function, couldn't move. So both aspects of dopamine They had no motivation and drive. They couldn't generate They were literally locked in frozen. And sadly, this is irreversible. It's irreversible, because what MPTP does is it of the substantia nigra that's involved in generating movement. And it kills the dopaminergic neurons of the so-called I was in college when this And I remember hearing this story. At the time, I had no understanding of what it is to have very or extremely depleted levels of dopamine. There was no reason why I I mean, of course I had of different kinds and but nothing to the extreme I got Giardia. And Giardia is a stomach bug it is terrible. It's terrible diarrhea. You end up very dehydrated very quickly. You drop a ton of weight and I ended up going to the emergency room, and in the emergency room, I begged them for something And they gave it to me. They put a saline line into rehydrate me and they injected something And within minutes I felt more sadness, more overwhelming sense of depression, basically, lower than I'd It was absolutely profound. I was crying endlessly without I was miserable. And I asked them, what did you inject? And they said, &quot;We injected Thorazine.&quot; Thorazine is an antipsychotic drug. It's actually used to It's what's given to people Often is given to people because schizophrenia elevated levels of dopamine. It was horrible. The experience of it was miserable, unlike anything I'd ever experienced. And so I actually said to them, &quot;What did you give me?&quot; They said, &quot;Thorazine.&quot; And I said, &quot;You have to give me l-DOPA. &quot;You have to give me something &quot;back up again.&quot; And they did. They gave me an injection went straight to my bloodstream. And within minutes I felt fine again. It was incredible. And it really opened up to what it is to have of dopamine. And there's nothing more And these poor souls who unfortunately, they couldn't People who have severe Parkinson's are struggling with this as well, because in Parkinson's the dopaminergic neurons often die. It's not just a problem with those neurons releasing enough dopamine. Later, we're going to to maintaining dopaminergic neuron health and things that we can all do for that. But I will tell you these dopamine neurons that we all have are very and mood and motivation. Having experienced what it is of dopamine or in this case blocked from Thorazine was and has given me tremendous that dopamine is perhaps one that any of us has inside of us. And the one that we ought to how we leverage, because while most that we do, and take and eat and cetera, won't create enormous highs Even subtle fluctuations our perception of life and how we feel. And so we want to guard those So let's lean into that And then let's talk about some tools that we can all use to leverage dopamine in order to keep that healthy place, and still be able to access Because those, after all are and worth living. So let's talk about the that we all have and the peaks in dopamine that we all can achieve and things that we ingest. All of us have different Some of this is sure to be genetic. Some people just simply ride They're a little bit more excited, they're a little bit more motivated, or maybe they're a lot more Some people are a little mellower, some people are a little less excitable. And some of that has to do with the fact that dopamine doesn't act alone. Dopamine has close cousins or And I'll just name off a and friends. Epinephrin also called adrenaline is the main chemical driver of energy. We can't do anything, anything at all, unless we have some level of epinephrin in our brain and body. It's released from the adrenal glands which right on top our kidneys. It's released from an called locus coeruleus. And its release tends to in the brain and wake up various aspects of our body's physiology So it should come as no surprise that dopamine and hang out together. In fact, epinephrin and adrenaline from dopamine. There's a biochemical which is a beautiful pathway. If ever you want to look it up, you can just look up But what you'll find is that, l-DOPA is converted into dopamine. Dopamine is converted Norepinephrin, it's also called. And noredrenaline, into adrenaline. So not only are dopamine and close cousins, they are actually family members. Okay? They're closely related. I'm not going to get too I'm not going to talk too but anytime I'm talking about or that you have a peak in dopamine, inevitably, that means and release of epinephrin as well. What dopamine does is the subjective experience of an activity to make it more pleasureful, to make it something Epinephrin is more about energy. Epinephrin alone can be Not physical paralysis, you know, frozen in fear or But the addition of dopamine if dopamine is released in the brain, well, then that epinephrin Okay? I'm using a broad brush here, but essentially what you dopamine and epinephrin aka And they tend to work to make you seek out certain things. So what sorts of activities? What sorts of things increase dopamine? And how much do they increase dopamine? Well, let's take a look that people do out there that are known to increase dopamine. So let's recall that you have and that everybody does. And even within a family, you might have family members happy and motivated, and others who are less But your level of dopamine has everything to do with those genetics, but also with what you've and the previous months and so on. When you do or ingest certain things, your levels of dopamine transiently. And depending on what you do or ingest, it will rise either more or less, and it will be very brief So let's take a look at that people take and do and eat. Some are good for us, some are not good for us. And let's ask how much dopamine Now, of course, these are averages, but these are averages in so-called micro dialysis So actually extracting how much dopamine is released? Or from measuring the serum, the circulating levels Chocolate. They didn't look at milk But chocolate will increase 1.5 times. Okay? So it's a pretty substantial It's transient. It goes away after a few I'll explain what determines But 1.5 times for chocolate. Sex. Both the pursuit of sex and the act of sex increases dopamine two times. So it's a doubling above baseline. Now, of course, there's but that's the average caused by sex. Later, I will talk about of the so-called arousal art, the different aspects of sex, believe it or not have a But for now as a general sex doubles the amount in your blood. Nicotine. In particular, nicotine that is smoked like cigarettes and so forth, increases dopamine two and So there's a peak that two and a half times higher. It is very short-lived. Anyone who's ever been a chain smoker or observed a chain smoker understands that the increase in is very short-lived. Cocaine will increase in the bloodstream two and And amphetamine another will increase the amount of 10 times above baseline. A tremendous increase in dopamine. Exercise. Now, exercise will have a different impact on the levels of dopamine, depending on how much that exercise. So if you're somebody who loves running, chances are it's going to two times above your baseline, not unlike sex. People who dislike exercise will achieve less dopamine increase or from exercise. And if you like other or weightlifting or Again, it's going to vary by of whether or not you enjoy that activity. This is important. And it brings us back to something that we talked about earlier. Remember that mesocorticolimbic pathway? Well, the cortical part is important. The cortical part actually which is your prefrontal cortex. The area of your forebrain and planning and involved in assigning a rational explanation to something, and involved in assigning to something, right? So for instance, the pen it's one of these Pilot V5s. I love these Pilot V5s. They don't sponsor the podcast. I just happen to like them. I liked the way that they write, how they feel. If I spent enough time thinking about it, or talking about it, I could probably get a dopamine increase just talking about this Pilot V5. And that's not because to release dopamine easily, it's that as we start more and more and what we say about it, and what we encourage has a profound impact on its rewarding or non rewarding properties. Now, it's not simply the case and you can tell yourself I love something and when you don't really love it, and it will increase dopamine. But what's been found over and over again, is that if people journal about something or they practice some form of or they think of some aspect the amount of dopamine that tends to go up. So for people that hate exercise, you can think about that you really enjoy. However, I will caution you I hate exercise or I hate but I love the reward I Later, we're going to talk about actually make the situation worse. They won't make you like they actually will undermine that would otherwise So certain things chemicals They make everybody's dopamine go up. So some people like chocolate, some people don't of course, but in general, it make has causes this increase in dopamine. But sex, nicotine, cocaine, amphetamine, those things cause increases in dopamine and everybody that takes them. Things like exercise, studying, hard work, working through a or working through that is going to be subjective as to how much dopamine will be released. And we will return to in a little bit. But now you have a sense can be evoked by different activities and by different substances. One that you might be I'm certainly drinking my caffeine today, and I do enjoy caffeine I drink yerba mate and I Does it increase dopamine? Well, a little bit. Caffeine will increase but it is pretty modest that I described. Chocolate, sex, nicotine, However, there's a published in 2015. This is Volkow et al. You can look up it's very easy to find. That showed that regular whether or not it's from increases up regulation of So caffeine actually makes more of dopamines effects. Because as I mentioned before, dopamine is vomited out into the synapse or it's released volumetrically, but then it has to bind someplace and trigger those G And caffeine increases the number, the density of those G Now, sitting back and thinking about that, you might think, oh yeah, you know, sometimes I'll notice people, at least in the old days and a cup of coffee. Or when people drink alcohol, oftentimes they'll smoke. And it's well-known like alcohol and nicotine or certain behaviors and to give bigger dopamine increases. And this is not terribly uncommon. There are a lot of people nowadays who for instance take They'll drink, I won't name names, but they'll drink a canned energy drink or they'll drink a pre-workout and they'll try and get that stimulant effect for the dopamine, the norepinephrin, that that works together to make you motivated. And then they'll also exercise of a dopaminergic experience Sometimes it's also to perform but as we'll talk about in a few minutes, that aspect or that approach rather of trying to just get your dopamine as high as you possibly can, in order to get the turns out to not be the best approach. And what you'll find as we is that layering together multiple things, substances and activities that lead to big increases in dopamine, actually can create pretty severe issues with motivation and energy and even a couple of days later. So I'm not saying that the occasional pre-workout or drink a cup of coffee now and again. Some people really enjoy that. I certainly do that every once in a while, but if you do it too often, what you'll find is that your and your level of motivation will take a serious hit. Now, I've been alluding versus dopamine baseline things since the beginning of the episode. I talked about tonic and But now let's really drill and how to leverage it In order to do that, let's why would we have a Why would we have a Well, we have to remember interest is? Our species like all and that's to make more of itself. And it's just about sex and reproduction. It's about forging for resources. Resources can be food, it can be water can be salt, it can be shelter, it can be social connection. Dopamine is the universal right? We call sometimes talk about but what we mean in the what we mean is forging and seeking. Seeking water, seeking Seeking things that make us feel good and avoiding things that But in particular seeking things that will provide sustenance and will extend the Once we understand that to seek things, it makes perfect sense as to why it would have a baseline And that the baseline and in some sort of direct way. Here's what I mean by that. Let's say that you were not alive now, but you were alive 10,000 years ago. And you woke up and you you had minimal water and Maybe you have a child, maybe you have a partner, maybe you're in an entire village, but you realize that you need things. Okay? You need to be able to generate the energy to go seek those things. And chances are there were Yes, it could be saber-tooth tigers and things of that sort, but there are other dangers too. There's the danger of a cut to your skin that could lead to infection. There's the danger of storms, there's the danger of cold, there's the danger of leaving So you go out and forage, right? You could be hunting, or you could be doing both. The going out and foraging process was we are certain driven by dopamine. I mean, there's no fossil but the circuits have existed. We know for tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of years. And they are present in every but even in little worms like C. elegans, it's the same process. It's mediated by dopamine. So dopamine drives you to And then let's say you and these ones are rotten, these ones are good. Maybe you hunt an animal and kill it, or you find an animal and you decide to take the meat. You are going to achieve, or I should say, experience You found the reward. That's great. But then it needs to Why? Well, because if you just stayed there, you would never continue It doesn't just increase your It goes back down. And what's very important to understand is that it doesn't just go back down to the level it was before, it goes down to a level below what it was before you went Now, this is counter-intuitive. We often think, Oh, okay, I'm going to Let's move this to modern day. I'm going to run this marathon, I'm going to train for this marathon. Then you run the marathon and you finish, you cross the finish line, you feel great. And you would think, okay, now I'm going to feel so much better, I'm going to feel this it's going to be so great. That's not what happens. You might feel some of those things, but your level of dopamine below baseline. Now, eventually it will ratchet back up. But two things are really important. First of all, the extent to is proportional to how high the peak was. So if you cross the it won't drop that much If you cross the finish line ecstatic, well, a day or two later, you're going to feel quite a bit lower than you would otherwise. You might not be depressed, because it depends on where But the so-called postpartum depression that people experience after giving birth or after some big win a graduation or any kind of celebration in mood and affect and in baseline dopamine. This is very important to understand, because this happens on and it can last quite a long time. It also explains the are familiar with, of engaging in something Going to a restaurant or engaging in some way with some person that we really, really enjoy. But if we continue to over and over again, it kind of loses its edge. It starts to kind of Some of us experienced that and more severely than others, but everyone experiences And this has direct roots conserved circuits. Some of you may be hearing this and think, no, no, no, no that's I'm just riding higher I love my kids, I love my job, I love school, I love wins, I don't want losses. I agree. We all feel good when but oftentimes we are feeling good because we are layering in consuming things and doing things that increase our dopamine. We're getting those peaks, but afterward the drop in baseline occurs, and it always takes a to our stable baseline. We really all have a sort And if we continue to or even different behaviors in these big peaks over we won't experience the same level of joy from those behaviors or Now, that has a name. It's called addiction. But even for people who aren't addicted, even for people don't an attachment to any specific substance or behavior, this drop in bay below baseline is substantial. And it governs whether or not to continue to pursue other things. Fortunately, there's a such that we can but also keep that baseline of dopamine at an appropriate, healthy level. A previous guest on the was Dr. Anna Lembke. She's head of the Addiction at Stanford. Has this amazing book, &quot;Dopamine Nation: Finding Balance If you haven't read the book, I highly encourage you to check it out. It's fantastic. The other terrific book about dopamine is the &quot;Molecule of More&quot;, which is a similar in some regard, but isn't so much about addiction, it's more about other types of behaviors. Both books really focus on and the relationship between these peaks and baselines of dopamine. In Dr. Lembke's book, and when she was on the and other podcasts, she's talked about this that when we seek something or we indulge in it, like eating a little piece of chocolate, if we really liked chocolate, there's some pleasure. But then there's a little bit of pain that exceeds the amount of pleasure, and it's subtle, and we experience it as Okay? So there's a pleasure pain balance, and I'm telling you that are governed by dopamine to some extent. Well, how could that be? Right? I said before, when you or when you ingest something the dopamine levels go up, you know, to substantial degree with all the things I listed off. Where's the pain coming from? Well, the pain is coming that follows. And you now know what that How do you know? Well, earlier we were is released between neurons. And I mentioned two ways. One, is into the synapse the postsynaptic neuron. And the other was what I where it is distributed more broadly. It's released out over a bunch of neurons. In both cases it's we call synaptic vesicles, literally little bubbles, that contain dopamine. Prrr! They get vomited out into the area or into the synapse. Well, those vesicles get depleted. For the synaptic physiologists out there, we call this the readily We can only deploy dopamine That's packaged in those little It's like when you order a until two months from now. Well, it's not ready to be released. Same thing with dopamine. There's a pool of and you can only release the dopamine that's been synthesized. It's the readily releasable pool. The pleasure pain balance on the readily releasable but a big part of the hinges on how much dopamine is there? And how much is ready and into the system? So now we've given some meat to this thing that we call the pleasure pain balance, and now it should make perfect sense why if you take something or do something that leads to huge increases in dopamine, afterward your baseline should drop because there isn't a to keep your baseline going. Fortunately, most people do not experience or pursue enormous increases in dopamine leading to the severe drops in baseline. Many people do, however, and that's what we call addiction. When somebody pursues that leads to huge increases in dopamine. And now you understand that afterward the baseline of dopamine drops because of depletion of dopamine, that readily releasable pool. The dopamine is literally and so people feel pretty lousy and many people make the mistake the dopamine evoking the or substance again thinking mistakenly that it's going to It's going to give them that peak again. Not only does it not give them a peak, their baseline gets lower and lower because they're depleting And we've seen this over and over again when people get addicted to something then they're not achieving You can even see this with video games. People will play a video game, they love it, it's super exciting to them, and then they'll keep playing and either one of two things First of all, I always say addiction is of the things that bring you pleasure. So oftentimes what will only has excitement and can to the same extent doing that behavior and not other behaviors. And so they start losing they start losing they start losing interest and depletes their life. And eventually what typically happens is, they will stop getting dopamine release from that activity as well, and then they drop into a and this can get very severe and people have committed suicide from of activity. But what about the more typical scenario? What about the scenario of somebody who is really good at they exercise during the week, they drink on the weekends? Well, that person is maybe one or two nights a week, but oftentimes that same their dopamine with food Now, we all have to eat that we enjoy. I certainly do that. I love food in fact. But let's say they're eating foods that really evoke a in the middle of the week, they're drinking one or they are one of these So they're swimming a in the middle of the week as well. They're going out dancing Sounds like a pretty balanced Well, here's the problem. The problem is that by one of these activities, dopamine is evoked by And dopamine is one currency and desire and pleasure. There's only one currency. So even though if you you'd say, well, it's just on the weekends so this thing is only a If you looked at dopamine as a chemical function it might make sense why this person after several years of would say, yeah, you know I'm I'm just not feeling like that I did a few years ago. And of course there why people can experience drops in energy, but oftentimes what's happening is not some sort of depletion that's related to aging. What's happening is they're through so many different that their baseline is And in this case it can be very subtle. It can be very, very subtle. And that's actually a very we could say. Which is that it can often but then at once it reaches we just feel like, hmm, we can't really get What used to work doesn't work anymore. So it starts to look a lot or the more acute addictions and amphetamine which lead these big spikes in dopamine, and then these very severe Now, of course, we all that we enjoy. I certainly do, everybody should. A huge part of life is that we enjoy. The key thing is to between the peaks and the baseline, and to understand how they Because once you do that, you can start to make really and in the long run to baseline. Maybe even raise that and still get those peaks and of elevated motivation, Because again, those peaks healthy high level of dopamine baseline are what drove the and they're really what drive progression too. So they're a good thing. Dopamine is a good thing. Just very briefly, because in the interview episode about addiction. Some of you might be asking, what should I do if I experience a drop in my baseline level of dopamine because of engagement with that led to big peaks? Just to put some color a few episodes ago I talked about a friend who I've known a long time. So it actually the child of a friend who has basically become he decided actually after to do a 30-day complete fast from phone, from video games and from He's now at day 29 has not incidentally, his his overall mood are up. He's doing far far better. What he did is hard. In particular first 14 but the way that you of dopamine is to not seeking behaviors. Because remember typically where they want to stop or ingesting substances when when they're not getting the same lift. In his case, he was feeling depressed. He thought he had ADHD. They were starting to treat it as ADHD. And certainly there are people but what he found was that are back. He does not need to be treated for ADHD. And actually the psychiatrist to this video game, social media fast. He's feeling good. He's exercising again. I'm not making this up. This is really a very specific, but very relevant example can replenish itself. Of course, if there's a clinical by all means pursue that. But I think a lot of because of this depletion in dopamine that occurs because of in the drop in baseline. So for anyone that's experienced who has addictive tendencies, whether or not their that is always going Is going to be either cold turkey or through some sort of with the, what would otherwise behavior or substance. So let's talk about the optimal or to consume things that evoke dopamine. And by no means am I of abuse. I would not do that, I am not doing that. But some of the things on these lists of dopamine evoking activities coffee, even if it's indirect. Sex and reproduction, provided it's healthy age appropriate, species is central to our evolution So certain things like I will put in the classification of bad. I'm willing to do that. And other things are part of life, food, exercise if that How are we supposed to engage activities in ways that are How do we achieve these peaks, which are so central to our without dropping our baseline? And the key lies in intermittent The real key is to not of dopamine release every time we engage in these activities. Intermittent reward schedules by which casinos keep you gambling. The central schedule by or potential partners keep on either side of the relationship. Intermittent schedules are and social media and all keep you motivated and pursuing. And we can take this back scenario where you are out looking for food, not every trail, not every about where the animals will be? Where the food will be? Where the berries will be? Not every single one of those played out. There's something called When we expect something to happen, we are highly motivated to pursue it. If it happens great, we get the reward. The reward comes in various chemical forms including dopamine, and we are more likely to This is the basis of casino gambling. This is how they keep you going back again and again and again, even though on average You can transplant that of different pleasureful activities. If you're not a gambler and I have to imagine there's something that you do And almost inevitably it's schedule. There's a intermittent sometimes arrives, sometimes a little bit, sometimes a lot, sometimes a medium amount. Okay? That intermittent reinforcement schedule is actually the best schedule How do you do that? Well, first of all, if you school, sport, relationship, et cetera, where you experience a win, you should be very careful to experience huge peaks in dopamine, unless you're willing to and waiting a period of What would this look like Well, let's say you are somebody who really does enjoy exercise, or let's say you're somebody but forces yourself to do it, but you make it pleasureful your favorite cup of coffee first, or maybe taking a pre-workout drink or taking an energy drink or listening to your favorite music. And then you're in the gym and you're listening to your music. That all sounds great, right? Well, it is great except all these things to try and and by getting a big peak in dopamine, you're actually increasing the to achieve pleasure from And so there is a form you do all the things that you love to get the optimal workout. You listen to your favorite music, you got your favorite time of day, you have your pre-workout drink, if that's your thing. You do all the things that of the workout for you. But there's also a version you don't do the dopamine You don't ingest anything You just do the exercise. You don't do the exercise through some what we call You might think, well, that sounds lame. I want to continue to enjoy exercising. Ah, well, that's exactly the point. If you want to maintain relationships or pursuits the key thing is to make sure if it's very high, And if something does occur very often that you vary how much with each engagement in that activity. Now, some activities naturally property woven into them, right? We sometimes have classes that we like and other classes we don't like. We don't always get straight A's, sometimes we don't get that we would like. We don't always have the but understand that your and pleasure for what comes next is dictated by how much and dopamine you experienced prior. The reason I can't give like delete dopamine or lower is that that wouldn't be intermittent. The whole basis of is that you don't really of when dopamine is going to be high, and when dopamine is going to be low and when dopamine is going to be medium. That's a predictable schedule, not a random intermittent schedule. So do like the casinos do and for activities that you in over time, whatever those happen to be. Start paying attention and excitement and pleasure and start modulating That might be removing releasing chemicals that Maybe you remove them every time, but then every once in a Maybe it involves sometimes that you enjoy doing socially, sometimes doing the same thing, but alone. There are a lot of There are a lot of different but now knowing what you know in dopamine and it is not just to achieve peaks, but to maintain that it should be straightforward these intermittent schedules. For those of you that are we can give you a tool. One would be, you can flip in any of these types of activities and decide whether or not other dopamine supportive elements to go for instance, into the gym with you. Are you going to listen to music or not? If you enjoy listening to music, well then flip a coin, and if it comes up heads, bring the music in, if it comes up tails, don't. Okay? It sounds like you're but actually you are both short-term and Now, the smartphone is for dopamine in light of all this. It's extremely common and doing selfies and listening to podcasts, listening to music, doing all sorts of in other activities or going to dinner and texting other people or making plans, sharing information. That's all wonderful, it gives depth and but it isn't just about when we're engaging with the phone, it's also a way of layering in dopamine. And it's no surprise and lack of motivation are Everything that we've sets up an explanation or interpretation of why interacting with digital technology can potentially lead to disruptions or lowering in baseline I can use a personal example for this. I happen to really enjoy working out, I've always really enjoyed it. But in recent years I noticed that, if I was bringing my phone to my workouts, then not only was I a and not focusing on what I was doing as much as I could have or should have, but also I started to lose It wasn't as pleasureful, I would feel like it kind of oomph. And I was beginning to As I started learning more between the peaks and the What I realized was that some time ago I probably experienced in the amount of dopamine because I enjoy working out I also enjoy listening to podcasts, I also enjoy communicating with people. Those are all wonderful pursuits, but I had layered in too And then it essentially Much in the same way a drug who takes it repeatedly because is dropping. So at least for this calendar year, I've made a rule for myself, which is I don't allow my No music, at least not from the phone. It can be in the room. I might listen to a podcast in the room, but I don't listen to anything or engage in anything on my phone. No texting whatsoever. And most of the time I just for that period of time. It's only a short period of time. I'm not training that often. This is something that I as people can't be alone now. People talk about, oh, you know, they can't walk across the ride the bus, can't be on the plane They can't handle just their thoughts. I don't think that's I think what's happened the great dopamine increase that comes from this incredible thing which I personally enjoy being by text and exchange and these kinds of things, social media. But then what happens is fulfilling aspect to it. And it tends to remove the excitement and the pleasure of the very activities that we are engaged in. So I know this is a hard but I do invite you to sources of dopamine release or what used to be multiple from activities that you or that you want to enjoy more. And now you understand that would underlie a statement like that. It takes a little bit of working with, I know it can be challenging or so of not engaging with the phone during any kind of workout. That actually was really tough, but now I'm back to a place I also feel as if I conquered something in terms of the circuitry I now understand why something that I enjoyed so much had And there's a deep, deep satisfaction that comes from understanding, okay, there wasn't anything wrong with me or what I was doing or anything at all. It was just there was something I was taking, which was layering in all and dropping my baseline. For this very same reason, I caution people against they study or every time they work out or every time that they do anything that they would like to continue to enjoy and be motivated at. There's one exception which is caffeine, because as I mentioned before, if you like caffeine, that actually could be a good thing for your dopamine system, because it does upregulate So it actually makes whatever dopamine is released by that activity, more accessible or more and the pathways of your brain and body. However, a number of energy drinks and particular pre-workouts contain things that are precursors to dopamine, and on their own, even if you would cause the release of They do cause the release of dopamine to a substantial degree. And over time that will So energy drinks, pre-workout drinks, drugs of various kinds and pay attention. We talked about some of things like Adderall, Ritalin, taken repeatedly over time will reduce the level of satisfaction and joy that you get from the activities you engage in while under the I'm not trying to demonize those compounds for their clinical use. What I'm saying is taking stimulants and then engaging in activities that you would like to is undercutting the process. And inevitably might not happen tomorrow, might not happen in a month, but inevitably you will have and drive related to those activities. Now, some people can They can just do the one or they only do their pre-workout for instance. More power to you. I actually do that sometimes, frankly. But people who are trying super motivated, driven, driven state, really focused every time you are absolutely and you are undermining your and focused. So just as we talked about a moment ago, intermittent spiking of is definitely the way to go, and chronically trying in order to enhance your will absolutely undermine your in the long run. Ingestion of caffeine is among the other examples of things I've mentioned to avoid before what would otherwise be Because again, caffeine and the efficacy of It turns out that the source while coffee or tea or will have this effect of Yerba mate something on this podcast has some First of all, it contains caffeine. It's also high in antioxidants. It also contains something called GLP-1 which is favorable for Yerba mate turns out has also been shown to be neuroprotective specifically Now, I should mention this so we don't want to conclude more needs to be done. But they showed that in a model of damage to dopamine neurons, and some of the compounds can actually serve to of dopamine neurons in both and the motivation pathway. So perhaps you need that incentive in order to ingest your yerba mate, perhaps you don't need any incentive. In my case, I don't need any incentive. I already enjoy yerba mate as my principle source of caffeine, although I do drink coffee as well. But if one were going to consume caffeine, you might consider consuming that caffeine in the form of yerba mate dopamine receptors and getting And of course, for the if that's what you're seeking. And in addition to that, because your yerba mate does appear to have some sort of neuroprotective and a particular dopamine Now, that doesn't mean that And actually there's one where caffeine can be And this relates to MDMA is under investigation for its potential to treat It's also of course, a drug It's still illegal at Whether or not MDMA is neurotoxic has been very controversial. Early on it was thought that it can destroy serotonergic neurons. There were other papers that came out which argued that's not the case. And that's in particular published in science magazine claiming that MDMA was neurotoxic. That paper was retracted. It turns out that that used methamphetamine instead, and methamphetamine is I think most of the data point to the idea that MDMA might not be neurotoxic, but in any case, caffeine the toxicity of MDMA receptors. And you might say, &quot;Well, Well, now you understand Caffeine increases the of these dopamine receptors, MDMA is a potent drug for of dopamine as well as serotonin And it appears that caffeine these receptors, can lead to more toxicity of MDMA. So caffeine can be a beneficial and actually can be a detrimental if not dangerous substance Two substances that namely amphetamine and cocaine with the dopaminergic pathways. And this is largely based on a study that was published some years ago, 2003, but still holds a lot of merit. This is a paper published in proceeds in the National Academy of Sciences, a very high tier stringent journal. First author is Kolb, K-O-L-B. And the title of the paper Amphetamine or cocaine limits the ability of later experience to in the neocortex and nucleus accumbens. Neocortex is the outer shell And the nucleus accumbens is part of that, mesolimbic dopamine pathway and reinforcement. Neuroplasticity of course, is in response to experience. And neuroplasticity is the and essentially remodeling in positive ways of all kinds. And this study was really that ingesting amphetamine and cocaine because of the high peak in dopamine that it creates and the baseline drop that limits plasticity and learning subsequent to taking amphetamine and cocaine. It was at least in this study shown to be a long lasting effect. I doubt it's a permanent effect, but this should serve as that amphetamine and cocaine in baseline dopamine, but can actually put in which it cannot learn and at least for some period of time. In a previous episode on ADHD, I talked about the widespread use of drugs like Adderall, Ritalin, all of which lead to very and for people with ADHD can But of course there's a non-clinical use of And it stands to reason that to increase dopamine the same sort of blockade that cocaine and amphetamine do. Because when you look at the that's triggered by those compounds, it's really comparable. So again, a cautionary note too much on a regular basis, unless there's a valid So we've been focusing a on the kind of darker side of dopamine and how getting big peaks in but I want to acknowledge the truth, which is that dopamine feels great. Being in pursuit and feels wonderful. And I don't want to demonize dopamine. What I'm trying to do how dopamine works in your brain so that you can continue to engage in dopamine evoking activities. And certainly there is a that can increase dopamine for us in the short and long-term. There are activities that healthy, sustained increases in dopamine, both the peaks when they or even increase our So how do we do that? What are some of these activities? Well, in recent years, there's been a trend toward more people doing so-called cold exposure. In part, this was popularized by Wim Hof, the so-called 'Iceman' taking ice baths, exposing of various kinds can in fact as well as the neuromodulator This is not a new phenomenon. In the 1920s, a guy by the was one of the first people cold water therapies. He was an advocate of cold water exposure in order to boost the immune system and increase feelings of wellbeing. And actually this practice dates back long before Vincent's popularized it. And Wim Hof is the more First of all, some of Let's establish those first. Getting to very, very cold water. You know, 30 degree Fahrenheit or even low 40 degree Fahrenheit can put somebody into a I mean, people can die doing that. So obviously you want to but for most people getting or 50 degree water, or if you're acclimated you know, 40 degree can have tremendously beneficial results on your neuromodulator What temperature of water you can tolerate will depend on how cold and how familiar you of getting into cold water. And when I say comfortable with, I should mention, there is never a case in which getting into a release of epinephrin. So the quickening of the breath, the feeling as if you and even some physical pain that happens almost every time, or every time that you even if your cold water adapted. What almost everybody knows that wall, as I like to That's always the first experience of getting into cold water. There's no real way around that. Now, this study that I mentioned earlier, human physiological responses of different temperatures, really interesting study in the university of, excuse me, the European Journal I can provide a link to that It's a really interesting study. They looked at people that was warm, moderately It was 32 degrees Celsius, or 14 degrees Celsius. You can just put those or you can do the conversion But in any case, what they of things like epinephrin And what they found First of all, upon the changes in adrenaline epinephrin and norepinephrine and these were huge increases. So that's the getting into the cold water that everybody experiences these huge increases in adrenaline. But then what was that dopamine levels started and then continued to as high as 2.5 times above baseline. That's a remarkably high increase. Remember if we go back to our a doubling above baseline, nicotine two and a half times The increase in dopamine of this kind was comparable except, except in this case, it wasn't a rise and crash. It was actually a that took a very long to come back down to baseline. Which is really remarkable, and I think this explains mental and physical effects after doing cold water exposure. One question that many of is just how cold should the water be? Well, you could mimic what and do 14 degrees Celsius. But for some people that for some people that will be too cold. They did look at the like cortisol in addition like epinephrin and adrenaline. And it's interesting that but especially at that there was an increase in cortisol, but that it was transient, That eventually people's cortisol, the stress hormone subsided a bit. There are basically two to remaining in the cold One is to try and relax yourself. Two, try and practice slow breathing, to try and dilate your gaze. I've talked about this you go into panoramic and calm yourself so that in the cold. Other people however, take the their level of internal autonomic arousal, meaning to get really energized and kind of lean into And they find that easier. Other people distract themselves, they recite the alphabet, or they do something, anything to try and distract themselves To be totally honest, it does not matter for Because the dopamine release is triggered and then continues even after Now, in this study, it was It was an hour. That's a long period of time. And I do warn you against that's so cold that it will and make you hyperthermic for an hour. That actually could be You might have a hard time reheating, and hypothermia is not a good thing. They had people monitoring and paying attention to They were able to reheat them afterwards. It's well-established now whether or not it's a shower, an ice bath circulating cold that can evoke the norepinephrine and the long arc of that dopamine release. Why would that be good? Up until now, I've basically in dopamine are detrimental Well, this does appear to for substantial periods of time. And most people report feeling and focus after getting out of cold water. So cold water exposure turns out to be a very potent stimulus for shifting the entire milieu, the entire environment and allowing many people for a substantial period of time after getting out of the ice than they did before. Now, you might ask how often to do this? Some people do this every day. It can be very stimulating. So typically doing it early in the day, it's going to be better. I don't necessarily recommend but some people do it in the afternoon. And some people will indeed other people three days a week, other people every once in a while. What I can say is once you once it no longer has the and feeling a bit like a, I don't want to say a 'cause you don't want to but once it is comfortable for you, then it will no longer evoke this release. There really does seem to from cold water exposure through and into the mesolimbic brainstem that causes this release in dopamine. But nonetheless, it's I mean, you need access cold water shower, et cetera, but basically zero cost way increase in dopamine no pharmacology whatsoever. Please again, approach it with but it is a very potent stimulus. Again, 250% of a rise in baseline, two and a half times that of cocaine which Now, I'd like to talk of rewards for our behavior, and the negative aspects of And from that, I will suggest a protocol by which you can achieve to your activities and In fact, it will help tune for discipline, hard work and motivation. Hard work is hard. Generally, most people Some people do, but most people work hard in End goals are terrific whether or not they are However, because of the to our perception of time, working hard at something that comes afterward, can make the hard work and make us much less likely in the future. Let me give you a couple and experiments. There's a classic experiment many years ago in which and kindergarten drew pictures, and they drew pictures The researchers took and they started giving The reward generally was a gold star or some thing that a young Then they stopped giving And what they found is the children had a much lower tendency No reward. Now, remember this was an activity that prior to receiving a reward, the children intrinsically No one was telling them to draw. What this relates to versus extrinsic reinforcement. When we receive rewards, even if we give ourselves we tend to associate less itself that evoked the reward. Now, that might seem counterintuitive, but that's just way that the way that these dopaminergic circuits work. And now understanding these which I won't review again, this should make sense. If you get a peak in it's going to lower your baseline and the cognitive interpretation is that you didn't really do the activity because you enjoyed the activity. You did it for the reward. Now, this doesn't mean all but it's also important to understand that dopamine controls When and how much dopamine we experience is the way that we carve up what we call our experience of time. When we engage in an activity, let's say school or hard work of any kind or exercise because of the reward we are going to give ourselves the trophy, the sundae, the We actually are extending the time bin over which we are analyzing And because the reward comes at the end, we start to dissociate the neural circuits for dopamine reward that would during the activity. And because it all arrives we have the experience from that particular activity Now, this is the antithesis My colleague at Stanford, Carol has come up with this and actually goes beyond called &quot;Growth Mindset&quot;, which is this striving to be of I'm not there yet, but striving itself is the end goal. And that of course delivers It's been observed over that people that have growth mindset, kids that have growth mindset because they're focused And all of us can The neural mechanism of involves learning to access and doing. And that's hard to do this prefrontal component You have to tell yourself, this effort is pleasureful. Even though you might of physical pain from the exercise, or I can recall this from college, just feeling like I wanted but forcing myself to study, forcing myself and forcing myself. What you find over time is a dopamine release. You can evoke dopamine and the challenge that You completely eliminate those circuits and the to reward friction while in effort, if you are focused only on the Because of the way that So if you say, oh, I'm going and I'm going to push and for that end goal that comes later. Not only do you enjoy the process you actually make it more painful while you're engaging in it. You make yourself less efficient at it, because if you were able to dopamine has all these of increasing the amount and in our mind, our ability to focus by way of dopamines But also you're undermining into that activity the next time. The next time you need and three times as much loud music, and four times as much energy drink and the social connection in order to do the run or to study. So what's more beneficial as a tremendous amplifier on all endeavors that you engage in. Especially hard endeavors is to A, not start layering in in order to get to the starting line, not layering in other sources of dopamine in order to be able to continue, but rather to subjectively start to attach the feeling of friction and effort to an internally generated reward system. And this is not meant to be vague, this is a system that exists in your mind, that exists in the minds of humans for hundreds of thousands of years, by which you're not that are innately pleasureful, food, sex, warmth, water But the beauty of this that I talked about earlier is that, it includes the forebrain. So you can tell yourself the I know it's painful, I know this doesn't feel good, but I'm focused on this. I'm going to start to access the reward. You will find the rewards, meaning the dopamine if you repeat this over and over again. And what's beautiful about it is that, it starts to become reflexive When we focus only on the trophy, only on the grade, only on the win as the reward, you undermine that entire process. So how do you do this? You do this in those moments You tell yourself this is very painful and because it's painful, it will evoke an increase meaning it will increase but you also have to tell yourself that in that moment you and you're doing it because you love it. And I know that sounds and in some ways it is lying to yourself, but it's lying to yourself which is that you want it to feel better. You want it to feel even pleasureful. Now, this is very far and away different from thinking about the the hot fudge sundae for after and you can replace hot fudge sundae with whatever reward happens We revere people who are capable of doing what I'm describing. David Goggins comes to mind Many of you are probably former Navy SEAL who essentially has made a post-military and sharing his process into the reward. There are many other examples Throughout evolutionary history, there's no question that we revered people who were willing to go out and caretake in ways that other members of our species probably found exhausting and probably would have preferred or soaked them in a cool stream rather than continue to forage. The ability to access aspect of our dopaminergic circuitry is without question the most and our biology of dopamine. And the beautiful thing is But just to highlight the and prevent you from from effort itself, don't spike dopamine prior And don't spike dopamine learn to spike your One straightforward example to effort and strain or a reward that naturally is so-called intermittent fasting. I know this is very popular nowadays. Some people like to do some people don't. Some people have a 12 hour some people do long fasts I personally don't with a lot of precision. I tend to skip one meal a day, either breakfast or lunch, and then I eat the other depending on which meal I skipped. So it's either breakfast, lunch and maybe a little or I'll skip breakfast and do Many people are now because many people find than to eat a smaller And that has everything to evoking properties of food. When we ingest food or when our dopamine levels go up. And typically when we ingest food, if it evokes some dopamine release, then we tend to want even more food. Remember dopamine's main and seeking. And what dopamine always wants More activity or thing that Well, let's just look at fasting from the perspective of dopamine schedules and dopamine release Typically, when we eat especially when we eat If you've ever gone camping, or you're very, very hungry, the food tastes that much better. And that's actually because of the way that deprivation states increase the way that dopaminergic circuits work. Our perception of dopamine is heightened when the receptors for dopamine have not seen much dopamine lately, they haven't bound much dopamine. So when you fast, fast, fast, fast, fast, and then you finally eat, it evokes more dopamine release. So this is the big reward Even bigger because you deprived yourself. This is true for all rewarding by the way. The longer you restrict the greater the dopamine is finally released, because of an upregulation of but I just spent five that you should avoid too and you should actually that you can consciously evoke and effort. And in fact, this is what that start doing fasting Many people say that their state of mind when they fast is clearer, that they actually start to In fact, some people start or skipping entire days in order to get deeper where surely it's not just dopamine, but dopamine is released. They will track their clock. Oh, I've been fasting 12 They are starting to or create dopamine release not from the food reward itself. And this I think makes it And one that certainly has in different cultures of deliberately restricting food, not just to increase of food itself, but also to increase of deprivation. And I should emphasize that a of the knowledge of serve as reinforcing dopamine meaning if somebody does and they are deep into their fast and they're telling themselves, oh, my blood lipid profiles And my glucose management My insulin sensitivity is going up, and I'm going to live longer. All these things that have and some basis or not from human studies, it's all kind of still but it does seem to be that fasting can encourage the engulfment of dead cells Well, as people tell they are enhancing the of the behavior of fasting. And so this is a salient example of where knowledge of change these deep primitive And this illustrates how the forebrain, which carries knowledge and rational thought can be that are involved in generating reward for what would otherwise behaviors, hardwired behaviors. And that's the beauty of That's the beauty of dopamine. It's not just attached to the heat, et cetera. It's also attached to the things that we decide are good for So telling yourself or studying or listening better or any kind of behavior is good for you will actually reinforce the extent to which it is good for And a somewhat eerie example was a study that was published last year in the journal Neuron, Cell Press journal, excellent journal. That showed that hearing something that reinforces one's prior beliefs actually can evoke dopamine release. So the dopamine pathway is so vulnerable to subjective interpretation that it actually makes it such or hear something that validates a belief that we already have, that itself can increase dopamine release. Along the lines of how and our perception of that we experience things There are beautiful studies and our sense of pleasure but also for savory foods, et cetera. And essentially the results that come out of this are the following. If you ingest something that you like, it tastes good to you, but then you ingest or even more savory. And then you go back to the Well, you don't like it as much, and that might seem like a duh, obviously. But that shift in by blocking the shift in dopamine. And so this really speaks in dopamine that I mentioned before and how your experience of on your prior experience of other things that evoke dopamine. Big dopamine release to experience more big dopamine release. So dopamine is one of those things that you don't want too high It's all about staying and that's going to be So for the very savory foods those highly savory foods or I think they call them are making more bland foods, whole foods, meaning foods that aren't processed. It's making those tastes less And all it takes is a short two days or so of not consuming and suddenly broccoli with tastes delicious to you. All right? So again, this just speaks is this universal currency. It establishes value based on, not just what you're but what you experienced in Now, that you understand of dopamine relates to your and how your current level your future level of dopamine, it should become obvious not just the accessibility of pornography, but the intensity of real world romantic and This is a serious concern. The discussion is happening now. The underlying neurobiological mechanisms you now understand. And this isn't to pass judgment on whether or not people like or that's an ethical discussion, and it's a moral discussion for each individual by But again, any activity that evokes a lot of dopamine release to achieve the same level and of dopamine through a So yes, indeed many people and yes, indeed many people in pornography experienced challenges in real-world romantic interactions. You now understand the mechanisms behind what I'm telling you. Now, there are circumstances of dopamine is desirable and advantageous and clinically helpful. Good example of this would also called bupropion and norepinephrine. Wellbutrin bupropion was developed as an alternative treatment for depression because some people who selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors which as the name suggests suffer from serotonin Things like decreased or sometimes increased that they don't want. And Wellbutrin seems to avoid It can blunt at appetite because of the increase in increases levels of but also can create a that can sometimes get in and things of that sort. So one has to work with their It is a prescription drug in order to find the dosage of Welbutrin In addition, things can increase anxiety because and norepinephrine are stimulating and tend to place people of alertness. Nonetheless, many people from depression from Wellbutrin bupropion, and many of those same with some of the SSRI. So it does seem to be a very useful drug in certain contexts, both for depression and for for people desiring to quit smoking. And of course there are who are seeking to increase of dopamine without pharmaceutical compounds. And nowadays there exist a The two most common ones that are directly within the dopamine which is actually a velvety Believe it or not, the is the precursor to dopamine. So Macuna Pruriens is at least in the United States. And it literally is the Meaning if you take it, you will experience very Those increases are transient And in fact, if you look at of Macuna Pruriens, what you find is that and they look a lot like The most obvious of of Parkinson's disease. There are at least five that Macuna Pruriens of Parkinson's disease, much in the same way the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. And that shouldn't come as any surprise given what I just told you It also can reduce a particular Dopamine and prolactin push pull fashion. When dopamine is up, prolactin is down and vice versa. Prolactin is involved in It's involved in setting for sex after ejaculation in males. The reason mating can after a ejaculation is because Macuna Pruriens is often and they're actually a that it can indeed do that. Macuna Pruriens has a that lie in the sex and that are worth noting. Sperm concentration, sperm quality is actually greatly These are kind of curious a little bit more about which I'll mention in a moment, but there are several studies, four in fact that describe can increase sperm count, sperm quality, and sperm motility. So for those of you seeking Macuna Pruriens might if you're interested in exploring non-prescription compounds. However, I should mention that any time you consume a substance by mimicking dopamine or to dopamine, there's almost inevitably in the baseline in dopamine So many people who take Macuna Pruriens feel really elevated, really all the sorts of things from a dopaminergic drug And then they feel a low and excitement and enthusiasm Just like they would with other dopamine increasing compound. For that reason, many people have turned to the use of L-tyrosine. L-tyrosine is an amino So it lies further up the And nowadays it's very is sold over the counter that people will take L-tyrosine as a way to get more energized alert and focused. Indeed, there are data that L-tyrosine is typically or powder form anywhere from 500 to 750 to a 1000 milligrams. It is a potent stimulus And the timescale for increasing dopamine is about 30 to 45 minutes after ingestion. Dopamine levels start to peak. The classic study that really nailed down the fact that tyrosine has this effect was published way back in 1983, Journal of Clinical that directly compared with tryptophan ingestion on Tryptophan being a precursor to serotonin. And indeed what they found is can increase the amount of and in the brain too, of course. The L-tyrosine ingestion induced dopamine increases within 45 minutes after about 30 minutes meaning the levels of dopamine And even though they didn't look at levels of baseline dopamine past that time point, the expectation based about dopamine biology is below baseline due to the depletion of the readily reservable that we talked about way of this episode. The nice thing about this study of effect because ingestion of tryptophan did not increase dopamine So there's really that rule out any placebo type effects. I'm not suggesting that anybody, everybody increase their dopamine or Macuna Pruriens. For those of you that your dopamine levels those are the most direct route to that. Of course, if you have a pre-existing dopaminergic condition, so schizophrenia or psychosis of any kind, bipolar, anxiety, things like Macuna Pruriens and L-tyrosine will not be good for you. And if you don't, you should that it's going to lead to You'll certainly feel an elevated state for some of you that might be agitating, for some of you that might and then you will feel a crash afterwards. How deep is that crash will and where your dopamine baseline began. So I personally am not like Macuna Pruriens at all for myself for the reasons I mentioned earlier, just too intense and too much of a crash. I do use L-tyrosine from time to time for enhancing focus and motivation, but I want to emphasize from time to time. So I might use it once a week, but I've never been one to in order to focus or train or I just don't want to rely in order to get my dopamine And I don't want to experience that inevitably occurs some I should also mention your levels of baseline dopamine. One that is rarely discussed is melatonin. I have talked before on this why I am not a fan of using melatonin in order to enhance sleep. It can help one get to sleep, but not stay asleep. Dr. Matt Walker sleep expert from University of California, Berkeley. I think I don't want to but in our discussion about when Matt was a guest in his Matt has generally stated except for treatment of jet lag is generally not a good idea. And I agree. I think that melatonin is as impacting the dopamine pathway, but there's at least one first author is Nishiyama It's spelled just as it sounds. Acute effects of melatonin administration on cardiovascular autonomic So the study wasn't but they looked at norepinephrine and they found a statistically in dopamine 60 minutes after I've talked before about between the hours of has been shown in studies David Bersin, excellent to reduce levels of after that light exposure. So dim the lights at night, if you can avoid exogenous melatonin, meaning if you don't and you can find a better alternative that would be a good idea if you want to maintain Now, there is one compound and you've probably actually that increases dopamine. And that's something called technically beta phenethylamine. And PEA is found in various foods. Chocolate just happens to and can increase synaptic I personally take PEA from time to time as a focus and work aid bouts of work. Again, I don't do that too often. This might be once a week I might use it for training, but typically I don't, it's usually for mental work. And I will take 500 milligrams of PEA and I'll take 300 milligrams of Alpha-GPC. That's something that I personally do. That's what's right for me, it's within my margins Again, you have to check what's right for you. It leads to a sharp but very that lasts about 30 to 45 minutes. And at least in my system regulated and kind of even and certainly much more regulated and even and lower dopamine release than something like Macuna Pruriens. One of the lesser talked about but that's gaining popularity and as a so-called nootropic is something called huperzine A. Huperzine A is a compound at least in the United States that can increase a different neuromodulator entirely. But what's interesting is by way of interactions and the dopaminergic system in the medial prefrontal Hippocampus, of course, associated with learning and memory. And prefrontal cortex being associated with the mesolimbic pathway, et cetera. And so I think the reason in popularity of companies and nootropic compounds is stimulating properties, but also for stimulating dopamine release. I personally have never tried huperzine A. You can go to www.examine.com into PubMed if you'd like to search around and see some of the science behind it. Again, I'm not recommending In fact, I recommend against and starting to consume things about how they function, whether or not they're right for you. But nonetheless, I think we are going to see a PEA phenethylamine and into the dopaminergic certainly along with things like Alpha-GPC as non-prescription, short-lived somewhat milder alternatives to things that really spike dopamine, things like Adderall, Ritalin, and similar. And I can't help but share It's not related to pharmacology. It's related to behaviors And that's the very interesting and I would say important finding that was made a few years ago who's in our department showing that oxytocin is actually directly stimulating I think for many years, all of us including me that oxytocin was in that it was about pair bonding, and it was about some that were more associated to feeling good with what we That's typically what we of the opioid system or The dopamine system is really but in a paper published in excellent journal. The papers titled gaining of excuse me, in the ventral tegmental area. You now know what the it's that area of the mesolimbic pathway. What this paper oxytocin social connection triggers dopamine release. And as everyone read this ah, this makes total sense of our species, indeed for any species are important, it's also important to go And so, while it's fun to and underlying neurocircuitry and all these different things and reward mechanisms and and all the various things in terms of science and I'd be remiss if I didn't include and just emphasize that close social connections in particular that evoke oxytocin release. So those are romantic type, those are parent-child type, those are friendship related, and those can even be just right? It doesn't actually require skin contact to get oxytocin release, but oxytocin release is the dopamine pathways. So the take home message engage in pursue quality, I know I've covered a I've really tried hard to focus on things that lie directly within and circuitries, as well as things that directly stimulate those pathways and circuitries. What I haven't talked that indirectly serve And out there on the internet and indeed in the scientific literature, you will find for instance, that things like Maca root Things like the gut microbiome And indeed they can, but they do that through By creating a environment, a milieu in which dopamine can flourish. Maca is a good example of that. It will reduce cortisol and related to cortisol can increase dopamine. But it's not a direct And so as a consequence, compared to the various that I talked about today. Indeed cold water exposure in dopamine as we talked about before, and very sustained ones at that. I realize in giving you a lot and mechanism all the way to circuitry and synaptic transmission, volumetric transmission and so forth, that it might seem overwhelming. The most important thing is to understand, or that these dopamine pathways really are under your control. And the locus of control that your previous levels of dopamine are influencing your levels And your current levels of dopamine and where you take them next, will influence your dopamine and weeks to come. So I hope both with the mechanisms plus some of the tools to tap both behavioral, and non-prescription, et cetera, that you'll feel that over your dopamine system. And certainly that you of your dopamine system and adjust your levels that serve you best. If you're learning from and please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific way to support us. In addition, please leave for a guest you'd like us to interview or a topic you'd like us to cover. In addition, please subscribe And on Apple, you have the opportunity to leave us up to a five-star review and to leave us a comment there as well. Please also check out at the beginning of today's podcast. That's a terrific way to support us. In addition, if you'd like and research at Stanford on and human performance, you can do that by going to, www.hubermanlab.stanford.edu/giving. And there you can make a to the research in my laboratory. In addition, we have a Patreon. It's www.patreon.com/andrewhuberman. And there you can support that you like. Today and on previous podcast episodes we talked a bit about supplements. Supplements certainly aren't necessary, but many people find them beneficial for things like adjusting or for other purposes. If you're going to use supplements, it's very important that be of very high quality, and that the quantity of ingredients that are on the label match what's actually in those bottles. For that reason, we've T-H-O-R-N-E because Thorne of stringency with respect to quality and how much of each supplement that they sell. If you'd like to see the you can go to Thorne, www.T-H-O-R-N-E.com/u/huberman. And there, you can see what I take. You can get 20% off any And if you navigate into the Thorne site through that portal, then you can get 20% off that Thorne makes. If you're not already at Huberman Lab, please do so. There I teach neuroscience Oftentimes, it's tools and information that I don't cover on the podcast. We're also on Twitter, And last but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science. [energetic music]