Two of the triumphs of the early 20th century of relativity and the theory of quantum mechanics. Einstein's theory came in two categories. One was his special theory of relativity, at constant velocity, and the second was his whose velocity is changing. And, yes, for the purists, that delineation But it works pretty well. If you take his second formulation and follow velocities, to accelerations, and eventually Ultimately, Einstein's theory of general which has taught us that what we experience and time. Pretty weird stuff, to be sure. But it's been proven time and again, with and the recent observation of gravitational There is no credible doubt in the scientific It's a good representation of reality. The problem comes when Einstein's ideas Now there's no issue with special relativity. Special relativity and quantum mechanics merge The result is quantum electrodynamics, quantum in general. I made perhaps a dozen videos on those subjects. However, when general relativity- which is quantum mechanics, the result is very different. The two theories simply can't coexist. You get infinities and conceptual difficulties And, even though some of the very smartest it's still a problem. We don't know how to merge quantum mechanics Now I made an earlier video about just why gravity should exist and it's probably worth But in this video, I'm not going to repeat Instead, I'm going to just talk about an and gravity. The name of this particular idea is called Essentially, what it does is try to use what An example is simple counting and it is this based. This approach could avoid all the nasty and Loop quantum gravity then imposed two core The first is what is called background independence. This means that it doesn't require that To give an analogy, if you're writing on a there and then you write on it. Further, you can assume the paper has a certain It's flat. The assumption of flat and unchanging space But in loop quantum gravity, you make no assumptions To continue our metaphor, it's as if the equations even more interesting, they can bend and change The second core principle has the very cool The phrase is definitely a winner that you Diffeomorphism invariance simply means that only on that point and not where it is located in space. So, if you combine those two core ideas and you can then explore the equations to find and time is continuous or quantized and it and time are quantized. One of the core consequences of that conclusion there is a smallest length, which is 10 to 10 to the -70 square meters and a smallest Further, there is a smallest time, which is So that's a very strong implication. It says that it's literally impossible to cubic meters. It's kind of like looking at a beach closer grains of sand. But, in loop quantum gravity, it's impossible is our metaphor for a grain of space. Similarly, this implies that there is no shorter It's like a digital stopwatch, which counts there's nothing in between- except this time, 10 to the -43 seconds, 3 times 10 to the -43 That's really the core consequence of loop and time. Now there's been a bunch of mathematics and spin networks and spin foam, but those take help your understanding all that much. So, I won't go into them here. I'll put a link in the description if you Now one of the interesting questions is how to Einstein's theory of general relativity? It's because when you add mass and energy, Now that seems like it wouldn't make sense areas, and volumes, but you need to remember has the property that you can distort the the volumes are unchanged. So these ideas of quantum spacetime are all I mean, is there any way that we can test Well, we can't get at them with our current They simply aren't powerful enough. But it turns out that there is at least one It turns out that if you take the idea of passage of light, there is hope. Loop quantum gravity implies that different slightly different speeds. High energy light- that is to say shorter quantized spacetime than longer wavelength Now the differences are ginormously small idea. If you let light travel for very long distances a difference. There are a few examples of sources of light visible universe, and one of them is called explosions in the history of the universe, They allow us to look at different color light There are multiple instruments looking for the Fermi Large Area Telescope. By the way, even though the Fermi telescope related in any way, except for a respect for When astronomers looked at distant gamma ray of different wavelengths, it appears that the same speed. So this could be a problem for loop quantum prediction isn't universal. We just don't know. But we'll keep working on it because- either time is simply a very cool idea. Okay- that was fun. Do I believe in loop quantum gravity? No, of course not. There's no confirming data. But it's a fascinating idea and I am very If loop quantum gravity is real, I'm sure not, the journey will be fascinating. Learning about this stuff is a great way to is everything.