{ INTRO } If you were in North America about 13,000 years ago, things were starting to look up. The world was emerging from the last great ice age, and finally, it was getting warmer again. At least, that's how it seemed. Because without warning, the Earth's climate kind of... glitched. Within what might have been as short as a single human lifetime, a huge swath of the Earth fell back into an ice age. Temperatures in some places dropped by as much as 10 degrees. And they stayed that way for over 1,000 years. Scientists call this period of intense chill the Younger Dryas. And to understand why it happened, we have to talk about a lake bigger than anything around today... and what happened when it broke free. At the end of the last ice age, much of the Here in North America, an ice sheet up three Sheet, stretched all the way from the arctic As temperatures warmed up, the ice began to rivers and streams, but a lot stayed trapped In the West, one of the biggest was Lake Missoula, today, and in the east was Lake Agassiz. And when we say big, we mean big. Like, took-up-half-of-Canada It's exact size likely changed a lot over have been the size of the Black Sea and covered as Manitoba, Ontario, and Saskatchewan. All of that water was likely being held back like The Wall from Game of Thrones, but even And as the Earth warmed up, these dams started Maybe the walls collapsed or maybe the water way, this monster lake started to drain, sending of water hurtling to the ocean. One study estimated that if it took an entire have moved an average of 300,000 cubic meters flow more powerful than the Amazon River At first scientists thought the water might rushing over what would be modern Montreal. But in the last few years, scientists have valley, whose terrain resembles the ancient All that flood water would have swirled around the Atlantic Ocean... breaking the Earth's You see, there's an interesting, and kind in the North Atlantic called the Atlantic They work like a big conveyor belt in the rises to the surface and is warmed up. And like the Gulf Stream. As it makes its way to the frigid north, the of places on the way nice and warm. Eventually, it cools down so much that some cold, saltier water, which is denser. That again--and the whole cycle repeats. But when all that fresh water hit the AMOC, causing the AMOC to slow down and maybe even stopped. Like, everywhere. Scientists think this might have been what the Younger Dryas. Without that warmth, huge went back into an ice age. Forests and grasslands that had been expanding turned into tundra, which might have dealt were already starting to disappear. And don't forget, this was only about 13,000 too--and there's evidence they, were also In North America, the onset of the Younger of the Clovis culture, know for its distinctive to become widespread on the continent. Of course, there are other possible explanations comet or asteroid impact or a volcanic eruption, as the megaflood hypothesis. And not every megaflood caused global havoc. the Northern Hemisphere. The Altai Floods of Central Asia, for instance, stretching from Siberia to The Mediterranean And in the Pacific Northwest, the Missoula now known as The Channeled Scablands in eastern In fact, it was the research done by geologist eventually set the stage for the study into [Blake] I'm Blake de Pastino, co-host of PBS Eons. was evidence of a massive flood in the Pacific receptive. At the time, everyone thought that geologic just didn't fit into that view of the world. But Bretz was sure that he was seeing the he and a colleague were able to prove it. If you want to learn more about how this scientific evidence of massive floods that changed the over at PBS Eons. [Stefan] Researchers now think Lake Agassiz actually twice more over its roughly 4,000-year lifespan. And much smaller versions of this phenomenon jokulhlaups, and they still have the power But none of these floods managed to cause the one 13,000 years ago did, though many Lake Agassiz is a reminder that while the are complicated and sometimes fragile. And knowing what's happened to our climate to it now. Today, people are once again watching out The AMOC is still around, and while there it all at once, scientists are becoming increasingly ice will cause a similar slowdown. And that means studying the megafloods of the future global effects of climate change. Thanks for watching this episode of SciShow! how these megafloods happened. If you liked the world we see today, you'll probably you can check them all out over at YouTube.com/Eons. { OUTRO }