Shalom and good evening, this is TV7 Israel And in today's top stories; pledges to repel the Islamic Republic annihilate the nation state of the Jewish people. reach a comprehensive cessation of hostilities The IDF launched a significant aerial arm - with dozens of reported airstrikes. for years in an attempt to fulfill the pledge annihilate the so-called 'Zionist Enterprise', right to a state in their ancestral homeland. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli Netanyahu - who asserted that the nation of Israel existence. Iran voices a vow that in the near and Zionists will no longer exist in the world. We of Israel would be annihilated. On the other hand, which trusts in its great military prowess. The must act in the face of an existential threat; and soundly consider what should be done and what at the moment when the chances for success seem of spiritual fortitude that demand significant world that it does have the spiritual prowess, our people will repel the threatening danger on I conclude my words." And with the expression The remarks by Premier Netanyahu were made as of preparations for a significant retaliatory over the latter's blatant attack that included territory, four weeks ago. And while Jerusalem's the strike on the Iran will take the Ayatollah is scrambling in a desperate attempt to dissuade of its offensive capabilities. We are focused on and as I have said before, Iran's response to any will be decisive. The main Iranian concern relates IRGC's nuclear and energy infrastructure - with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) - be illegal under international law. The threat facilities, according to various international resolution--Resolution No. 533--is condemned and Secretariat and the Director General of the fundamental responsibility of the foreign ministry Despite losing all credibility with regard to to include uranium enrichment levels with little continues to deceitfully contend that it is not definitive policy of Iran is that weapons of doctrine. Our stance is grounded in a clear country's highest authority, who is the highest the supreme leader. Meanwhile; U.S. Secretary of extensive meetings with Jerusalem's leadership for "de-escalation" on all Mideastern fronts. Spokesman Vedant Patel highlighted the purpose up a little later this afternoon heading to Israel the secretary will reaffirm the United States emphasize advancing enduring peace and security the region, Secretary Blinken will discuss the securing the release of all hostages Palestinian people. He will continue discussions and emphasize the need to chart a new path forward lives and realize their aspirations free from that additional food, medicine and other urgently civilians in Gaza. He will also discuss the need between Israel and Hezbollah that fully implements civilians on both sides of the blue line to return U.S. commitment to work with partners across lasting stability. It is important to highlight Israel; Hezbollah launched a number of barrages it attempted to target installations belong all of the incoming projectiles were successfully reported. Meanwhile in Beirut; U.S. Special with Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati the course of which he stressed Washington's aggression to Lebanon's public I am grateful to I am saddened to bear witness to the pain of I have to admit this is a really heartbreaking in Lebanon like everyone in the region secure and safe and prosperous future for went on to stress the Biden Administration hopes 1701. This is my sixth, maybe seventh visit to months containing the conflict, we were not able that the situation was urgent and the status quo a solution or things were going to escalate time after time, including as recently as resolution was possible but it was rejected and feared that it could . As president (Joe) Biden implements UN Security Council Resolution for many generations. 1701 was successful at that no one did anything to implement it. The to the conflict that we are in today. The White reinforcing the Government and Leaders of Lebanon local Shi'ite proxy, Hezbollah. The government of support and the United States and our partners are can and should provide for all of the people of to put its people's needs first. The world will brave and the harsh choices that are required at We are committed to all of the Lebanese people and what I was here to talk about today. The United soon as possible, That's what president (Joe) towards. And what I just said, we are working Lebanon as well as the government of Israel to get once and for all; that puts the mechanisms in just be over today and start again next week or so that everybody can go home and know that we are envoy's visit; The Arab League's Secretary consecutive meetings - during the course of which You cannot eliminate a party, movement, or an with him [Speaker Nabih Berri] specific priorities the importance and necessity of reaching an without time limits, as is being proposed here and on Hezbollah's financial arm, overnight - in group's capacity to maintain its sway over the Lebanon has experienced a deep financial crisis main financial arm is the 'Al-Qard al-Hassan' Lebanese civilians, and pays the salaries of which violates international law, is sanctioned Hezbollah's financial network is based on two main and money from the Lebanese people. The IDF will is this Iranian money used to kill Israelis, it continues to smuggle Iranian money into Lebanon making the economic crisis in Lebanon even worse. to move out, move out of harm's way, from including in the Dahiya area. We published and also through other channels. The Israeli Air these Hezbollah financial strongholds. One of vault with millions of dollars in cash and Hezbollah's attacks on Israel. This vault building. Our strikes will degrade Hezbollah's Admiral Hagari went on to unveil declassified which Hezbollah dug under Al-Sahel Hospital in the Iranian proxy stores hundreds of millions of U.S. Lebanese authorities, and the international to use the money for terror and to attack Israel. as you can see. However, we will not strike We are not at war with the people of and we will continue to operate against Hezbollah able to return to their homes in safety and Chief of General Staff Lieutenant General Herzi Command Commander Major General Ori Gordin, and Brigadier General Guy Levy - addressed Israel's at all levels. We struck close to 30 targets Hezbollah's financial system, 'Al-Qard al-Hassan,' and ultimately finances Hezbollah's terrorism. in Beirut, and you are dealing with the effort ultimately forms a complementary response, sends weapons, and dispatches personnel here. Be Thank you for watching TV7 Israel News. I would Jerusalem and salvation of Israel. Separately, are exclusively donation-based - please consider do so via our website at www.tv7israelnews.com. Sameach ve Erev Mevorach (A Blessed Evening and we will see you during our next update