Well, we're here to talk with University, about his book that &lt;i&gt;Righteous Mind: Why Good People &lt;i&gt;Religion&lt;/i&gt;. It's great to have you Great to be here at Wharton. - Thank you for the big questions your book hard for liberals and other? Why? Well, the very nature of does, that I think isn't that it binds us into groups In the animal kingdom, the only pretty much kinship. You get occasionally. But elsewhere in family. And human beings have together in groups and do big at the early history of temples, gods, religion. People That binds them together. But at the can't think for themselves, or become members of the group. America, now-- each country has its and conservatives are bound around principles, and they absolutely They are forbidden from they be kicked out of their And you published the book last to change your mind? Let's see. Well, since I've-- the book has gotten a good libertarian--except on the far left hate it, and the New groups that I criticize in the I changed my mind a lot while started writing the book, I partisan liberal. And I actually shifting over from just studying studying morality across they were different nations. I Kerry loss to George W. Bush. the Democrats by the lapels and a moral argument? Why do you and my policy will do more for argument?&quot; So I got into the originally to help the really trying to, to get inside different moralities, I came to truths and insights and threats So you've been on an ideological possible for people to change all you have to do is study to write a book in which you sympathetically. It should be I asked the question about the mind because you do embrace, in version of moral intuitionist - Of how people work through puzzles of this sort. that? - Sure. - Of what moral implications for our capacity to change. So a dominant thread in rationalism, the idea that we reasoning creatures. And if we we will rise above the fog of talk to each other, and we will is a sustained argument against David Hume, the 18th century that reason is and ought only to And so what I believe the psychology shows is that our Our reasoning about moral issues after we already know which way reasoning out like a press the press secretary to say, doesn't say, &quot;Go look at the position and explain that to the position, using whatever most persuasive.&quot; And that's the is why we are so good at giving other person doesn't change they must not be sincere. I Why aren't you changing your mind?&quot; minds is to first get them them see a conclusion. Feel it. Luther King's &quot;I Have a Dream&quot; argument, but it's an argument rhetoric. It opens your heart can get in. And then you see the believe quite a lot in the persuasion. Just, it has to be not excludes it. So if you were President of the would you do to encourage more and conservatives, that the is not doing? The number one top priority for reform, to get our political Everyone agrees that Congress polarized since the 1980s. There The people have gotten a little that we could do as citizens. dynamics of one institution in there's a group called No set of solutions. We all know reform, we need electoral to take 10 or 20 years if we some simple fixes, the most legislative calendar back the which is, Washington is in And then it's off for one week in, he told the incoming Washington.&quot; Prior to then, they served on committees together on or spouses did. They knew each kids. They had personal Politicians, what do they excel socially-skilled people. That's They're able to make deals with great skill. And you take an trouble as it is, that has all And then you say, &quot;How about they no longer know each other, on the same little buses under-- Capitol anymore, there's each. Let's end all personal work out difficult issues.&quot; It we are. So there are a lot of would go a long way towards better. And if Congress wasn't would dampen down the messages media, that we all have to hate side is going to destroy the John, at the end of chapter four one has ever invented a new demonstrably changed the the classroom experience. And teaching business ethics. Why? Well, yes, they-- because they no. And because I made it sound And I stand by that, that a meeting twice a week for a people's heads so that when and they're faced with something, falsify something, customer, they're gonna remember this is wrong.&quot; There's no The evidence in social simple situational pressures is think an ethics class can really can do at Stern is-- is make the process in which we are professionalism. What does it professional? When they first all over the country at every openness where everyone's trying to What's cool? What's the right to be successful here?&quot; We teach of the second year. It's way too be a Stern student. And so lot more of the content into the intensive class into other parts some of the content in every we'll discuss norms of important than that, because I our ability to behave ethically pressures, I want to teach our systems design. How to take all human nature and work with them companies, where people are reputation. People are concerned money, in most cases. How can we will, in a sense, guard the thing? That's the most important So did these liberal-conservative pronounced in the political the domain of business ethics? that are trans-ideological and people just as political issues the core issues of business But from what I'm picking up, things like fiduciary duty. You are hiring you to do a job, to interests first. I don't see any issues, like corporate social partisan issues. One of the ethics is how can we get the triple bottom line, not just also social benefit and this is going to appeal to the right. Let's see. I don't more to students on the right. on personal responsibility. victims and the poor. But the be non ideological. So the Friedmanite to view any deviation from shareholders as a form of theft. That's-- that's strong position. Is that-- position? And-- Yes, I read-- I read the article where very persuasive case. And I markets, in which there were no was no despoiling of public perfect information, and people cheat, then I think the Friedman believe Friedman was very aware &quot;Oh, just maximize shareholder situation.&quot; If we had-- if we had companies couldn't be foisting then I think there would be a don't have such a -- such a-- such a necessary for-- to achieve things are so polarized about. Is it, do you have a maximal view in restrain the corporations? Or which government is the problem, down, the freer business will be You don't see very many endorsing the Friedmanite companies I've come across seem corporate social responsibility. also? I mean-- - Well, you know. You know, but most people are in favor of mean, they have to say saying it. I would want to know resources towards backing that was uniformly the case that-- or companies are sincerely Okay. So let's-- let's circle metaphor that you use earlier, intuitionism. Are you able to embrace of corporate social secretary posturing, as opposed a moral priority? I can't. I don't know how to do so far in my one year in the School of Business, is that business, it varies a lot by or Starbucks, or Google, which with consumers, and has a that reputation. Those companies boycotts, public criticism. They so I think they do-- especially fire-- they really do make a social responsibility. Companies just from reading Michael &lt;i&gt;Dilemma&lt;/i&gt;, the big agribusiness Daniels Midland and the other their names. So I would be very social responsibility seriously. incentive for them to do it. So again, cycling back to the is really an intriguing one. States, and you have-- you have press secretary is there to President does. He's not a secondary justification quite explicit. So-- but yet change within a moral be as though the press secretary to do, as opposed to the secretary what to do. So if you look at it just as an flawed. We're all such-- so bad at moral values are at stake. So reasoning and change just by better. But when you put us systems and companies and juries that-- we can correct each other's big problem is the confirmation confirming what we want to people out there to disconfirm with them, we just hate them and they're members of our company, fellow scientists-- this is why ideological diversity in the shares certain assumptions, and them, then yeah, you get bad thinking about institutions as people together in ways that flaws. We see plenty of moral because of logic, I think. If rights, interracial marriage, people in America 50 years ago. change. It's not because of used to it. There's a lot of Why is gay marriage-- why are changing so fast? It's not made back in the '80s, suddenly, It's because people saw &lt;i&gt;Will and Grace&lt;/i&gt;. most gay people are in the closet. gay, and now they're mostly out everybody knows seven gay people family. When you get used to shock value, it loses disgust more open. So moral progress is intuitionist view about how you've right first, you've got to speak the rider. Speak the elephant right direction, then the rider what's happening on gay We might might have a problem We've got elephant and rider. secretary, and I'm fixated on the moment. But okay, so-- so secretary might come back to the this anymore. The President is too great. You're going But that would be one feedback - Or-- - Exactly. - Yep. That's right. That happens. That's right. So reason is the slave of the metaphor. A slave doesn't talk I like press secretary or lawyer. bidding, but he can say, &quot;Excuse insist. But this is a losing it is my fiduciary duty to feedback mechanisms like that. that on-- you know, on gay People-- in certain social ridiculous arguing for things argued for 10 years ago. So, you obviously-- your-- your widely praised. What's the your-- of your position? Well, one critique is that I'm I'm not critical enough of that's true. When I wrote the thinking so much about what conservatives, that's sort of really tried to help liberal-- and are liberals. And the people liberal. So I was kind of should have said some of the conservatives are wrong. One of liberals, I think are too quick karma, liberals kind of want to to bad consequences. And that's decays when you don't have swift act as though the law of karma people who are suffering now are they did in the past. And that a complete ban on blaming the figure out a lot of-- a lot of I think are a little too quick to how a disadvantage can downward spiral. So I do wish I criticism and praise of both So the concept of deservingness - Absolutely. --- in producing ideological suggesting that conservatives of deservingness and liberals going forward-- going forward is-- is a great this, as I did, when you become a will never spank my child. But gentle. And you discover that wife and I found very quickly method, which is when he's that's two, that's three, punishment-- doesn't have to be you get behavior change. And a trying to reason with the kids. they don't want to punish, they an unwise choice?&quot; So I think conservatives stand up for something bad, you should be good, you should be rewarded. In book and in my talks, a sign from success, stop rewarding failure.&quot; for the law of karma as you Liberals, in contrast-- I have a square. How can they let us go who are hungry, well, then, of taxes, we need to be equal.&quot; So you push for equality, that equity. And we see that in in Title Nine, which mandates so that all of our schools are into sports, and they're trying enough money to pay for the men. access to sports in a lot of our an effort to get equality of livid about that. And liberals equality of outcome? It must So you're able to weave together argument in a very sophisticated, but most people don't think that If you're a partisan, then you secretary tends not to say, Republicans are right about right about that.&quot; If he does partisan, you cannot think in an research shows. The further you lower integrative complexity most Americans are not that themselves on one side or the extreme. Our political life is elements, bolstered by the model that also does not cater we're bathed in arguments from complex. I think it takes some to find ideas on-- on the other that, to me, has been the great with liberal ideas. I've been I started reading conservative the value of tradition, about how they really struck me as a libertarian ideas. For example, formulation I heard the other David Schmitz said, &quot;A free in which you win by making other such a simple and clear libertarians see the free market, really do encourage us all to people want and will pay money off because of it. So insofar as you believe the we'd be better off both as more people could think in these What specific things can be done to induce that so you get-- get-- with each other in Congress is other suggestions? Could we-- I be useful to work through the have for how do we can get out Let's look at, what can we do as There's a line from one the lawyers.&quot; That's not what I'm all the math classes beyond our students' time learning math. helpful. Teach them more civics, teach them the history of them ideological history, make these long idea-- long respect. Second, teach some mean, sure, if students want to should learn statistics. That the data that's coming in from places. So even in high school, our students for citizenship, an exercised brain that can do universities, it would be nice honest debate, and be a little claiming hurt feelings. I think places of debate and discussion. litigious and has fostered the to not have their feelings hurt. we never get to talk with people from such discussions. So help our thinking. But I don't become more integratively Our political institutions could thinkers in ways that get outcomes, as long as they don't key. I'm not out to change to the center. I'm out to make side. To say, &quot;I disagree with disagree about the right way to issue is, or the environment. that draw on certain-- your side that my side doesn't see viewers to go to Asteroids helps people see that each side towards the Earth that the other sand, it won't even acknowledge. we can do to stop demonizing, intellectual differences. Thank you so much, John, &lt;i&gt;Righteous Mind: Why Good People &lt;i&gt;Religion&lt;/i&gt;. It's been great we wish you well. Thanks so much, Phil.