There are nearly 10 million Right now. Almost everybody who wants a I said that almost everybody And that's by design of the The Fed has to monitor the Fed has a dual mandate. Dual mandate. And it focuses also maximum sustainable Maximum sustainable level of employment we can harmful inflation. The problem is that maximum less obvious than the 2% After all, the Fed itself employment is not directly It's more sort of amorphous There isn't a number and measure either. So then what does this mean? Labor market conditions are employment. Here's why every American job and what maximum So the Fed aims for 2% straight forward. But for the other half of magic numerical target. And the unemployment market The Federal Reserve cannot unemployment rate. Really what they're trying the unemployment that goes cyclical nature of the We're never going to have And that would make sense, always going to be movement When Federal Reserve most of the members of the Committee saw the labor maximum employment in 2022. He defined it as. The highest level of consistent with price is my personal view. But the problem is. Whether we can raise rates accommodative and even without hurting the labor So what Powell is saying hinges on the Fed's actions raise or lower interest Think of it like this. The Fed mans a sailboat. On deck, maximum employment Powell can raise or lower pulling the interest rate steer the boat. So by controlling the sails to set the labor market in The seas are pretty stormy, around some pretty big And so it makes it really shift and they may not until it's too late. I tortured that metaphor to In 2020, the Fed actually maximum employment. And it said it would no interest rates just because fallen low. It would wait inflation. That's when the Federal and inclusive to its That's sort of where you different populations fare. Like we know for a fact of recession, it's going to who are hit the hardest, The Fed closely monitors relationship between also known as. The natural rate of sustainable level of cause inflation. Unemployment that is inflation equaling actual Part of managing this make tough choices for the workers lose their jobs. I think it's hard to sell to trying to do is make more No one wants to hear that. The economics is if you have employers scrambling for inflation than we want. The Fed tries to keep inflation as steady as The law doesn't have the The law just says maximum We can't run experiments on inflation the way we can to physics and chemistry. The question is how low can before it starts producing inflation? The short answer Measuring employment starts unemployment rate tracking have actively looked for weeks. Usually looking at the because most of the other travel pretty close to it. Unemployment is only who are looking for jobs, Lots of groups of people unemployed but might And that's not going to number. So, economists dig deeper. Well, one thing they're people are there who say they're not bothering to think they could find one. That's called discouraged They're looking at what is participation rate. That is what fraction of is either working or For example, the labor force when people stop looking amid the pandemic. But these numbers aren't As one number does, it's heterogeneity you can see, So different races, age, groups are going to of participation. Right now, there are about one unemployed person. That's where the job Survey, aka the JOLTS It's a look into who's been Things like the number of right? Or the number of job Plus, demographics shift the That's a big reason why is extra tricky. So, economists track I think it's really prime age employment to That is the share of people 54 who are working and try structural unemployment for is today, given the landscape and given the country. And so it does So, at any given point in defined by what the There might be times where consistent with very low or times where it may be So, you've just got to kind pudding, and see, and see The maximum employment goals economy, just as Powell Maximum employment will the course of the business situation we're in now, the employment that's prices may increase and we people come back into the The interesting thing is employment before the little inflation. Our country is taking throw at us and we've come America is back to work. We're coming out of the And all of a sudden we got unemployment was generally not what you And I think a lot of that control. Of what the Fed can control, for what it calls a soft Powell thinks that employers vacancies in the economy. That is, they'll stop of people off. And that's bringing the sailboat to rocks. Jay Powell thinks just right. The good news is that we do participation picking up And if companies find it without bidding up wages so that cost to consumers with perhaps, we may be able to unemployment without The Fed is a bunch of people looking at all these something from recent understand how the world trying to make a judgment levers they have to steer of employment with the think means it can only be near, somewhere near, 2% The harder question for the there's too many people therefore we have to raise of them get laid off so we