I'm getting the feeling my fans actually Let me give you the backstory. Many years ago, they realized that it was theoretically water as your resource. And instead they decided to listen to their intrusive Seablock's namesake is the classic Minecraft being we're in the ocean instead of the sky, Angel's and Bob's are already but asking us to do it all from nothing kind of CBT you come to this channel to see. So rock into a massive factory capable of producing and I do mean millions. Just launching we need to research a spaceship complete with We're given a handful of materials to start mod is prepared to give you. Our first question is And we get slag by pumping water into an and oxygen until we're left with nothing but crystallized into a *chance* at getting a useful Welcome to modded Factorio, and Though, to get inserters, I just need to grow some brown algae in these algae farms I And with that, I've managed to make I'm starting to get the feeling that the original Well, with inserters, I can The first step is actually getting some slag seeing we need to deal with all the useless oxygen stacks is enough to deal with it all. The main as a single underground pipe represents several We feed that into the crushers, then got automated ore production. a minute automated. The main thing which we didn't get from the starting resources The first thing I want is basic logistics, which are very useful here because these ore as if this production chain wasn't complicated it automatically at this point are filtered crushed stone back into the liquefier You might have noticed the wind turbines one puts out an absolutely pathetic 15 kW each, takes over twenty of them, but it's the their output is constant. Guess there's only got 120 of these things, and no way of Power is going to be a major limitation. With green algae we can make cellulose, which algae to make paper, and eventually the boards the only burnable thing we can make right now, the fuel for the furnaces, there's an infinite At this point I've already used up which is a bit concerning if I ever hope so I start researching something These washing plants take in muddy water progressively cleaner before finally spitting You can also get clay, sand, and lime from useful until way later and I wasted a ton of water is useless right now, but we just get what we're really after is the mud byproduct, The first step also spits out which seems useless for now, so we But all those washing plants take electricity, Power is going to be our biggest but as I said, our only source of combustible and that only has a measly fuel this one algae farm can create about 0.3 cellulose and considering the building itself takes about Not to mention all the useless brown algae it chest. Oh yeah, and the assembling machine that positive 100 kW is still like, 6 turbines, so it's While i think about that, I'm slowly hand early research. There's way too many of these is also a good time to mention I got a speed much. Usually I insist on everything being a single iron plate and with nothing to do in make the playtime counter a bit inaccurate, On our quest for a solution to the power problem. where we can combine fibers into chunks, to make charcoal. Each step increases the fuel meaning 12 MJ of cellulose turns into 20 MJ of algae recipe. Downside is, it takes mineral but it doesn't output any brown algae and it takes The process in the same as making plus turning charcoal into CO2 gas. This means second from this algae farm, also known as 1.2 we're up to about 2 MJ per second. But considering probably somewhere around 600 or 700 kW plus so we're looking at about 1.2 MW of excess all the effort it took to build, but that's support a whopping four extra electrolyzers. Now, building all that has completely wiped out starting to feel just how horrible my supplies stand around for several minutes just to get the be a better way, and there is, but wouldn't First off I'd like to explain these this overflow valve will only allow flow and there's a top-up valve that only 80%. They're handy for fluid control and I'll Anyway, it all starts with this unassuming mud washing. If we combine it with oxygen and if we combine it with oxygen again, we'll attention because this is the single most For the next step we'll need purified water, and hydrogen with another chemical plant now that the overflow valves, only the excess gets vented Finally, that combines with the sulfur dioxide sulfuric acid. Why...? Well because it gets us liquefying it into crappy mineral water, we We're almost there, but slag slurry on its a filtration plant first. It uses up a filter to out the filter frame and we can recharge it by This is a good time to mention that which are highly adjustable and allow mineral sludge goes into a crystalizer None of the probabilistic nonsense where here we get the exact ore we want, and with over It's also time to mention this behemoth. The ore directly, we can sort out the iron ore and a pieces of slag which we can route back in to get excited about a slag byproduct, but like I said, it's still a tiny, *tiny* trickle of resources. If a rocket by now, but nope, here I am getting But there's the loop to make mineral sludge, and ores from now on. If you're already overwhelmed It's not even over yet, because if you were waste water to deal with from the filtration it's actually a sacred substance. This whole of sulfur is washing mud to get like two units of However, we can recover that sulfur by putting it we actually *gain* sulfur by doing this. we get about 3.2 sulfur out by the time we wash some trace sulfides from the slag, but whatever The plant also spits out some purified water and route back into the filtration plant and the top up valves come in handy, because I can make the hydro plant and so that its water will get And you'll never believe what right. Actual automated red science. It but considering where we started, it's quite To put an actual number on it, It takes three electrolyzers so that's .75 slag a but for every four ores we get two slag back, so after some more boring math, we learn that plates per second, and .0675 copper plates Point being, we need to scale up. And don't forget that I still need to hand craft electrolyzer takes about three minutes. as expensive as the electrolyzers themselves. expandable than the other one, but since I'm not going to go overboard just yet. At this the early research out of the way and pray that I disconnected the landfill maker so I but it's time to bite the Now it's time to introduce the blast furnace is lossy because it's four ores to only we can get the full four plates by turning them and then casting the molten iron into plates. An is so fast, it actually takes much less fuel than I'll have the luxury of automating fuel insertion, I've also researched steel, which is which we have in abundance. A steel which is important because any steel production iron production. The advantage is, along and we can actually make more wind turbines five step process just to get power out of a handful it dawns on me just how expensive Running off five electrolyzers and the plates per second. One single turbine takes it's 90 seconds per turbine, And seeing as you're looking at over 30 minutes just Yeah, that's a bit excessive, so eventually I wizen up and return each electrolyzer I add would speed up So this is still a lot of effort to get out little I tried to make it compact and easy to duplicate. because when power demand is low, the chest a battery and the extra engines will be More power means more electrolyzers, means more resources, means less waiting. Also With 14 zappers I've got a *reasonable* supply started with, and despite our single lab out of useful research that we can get with just Up until now I've been happy to make nothing up but to get green science we're going start crystalizing different ores, It's crushed in the same way as saphrite, it through the sorter, we get out tin and no use for silicon right now, but the so all we can really do is stash the glass it same way as copper or iron and before too long everything is made from the same mineral sludge, And that hurts a bit because all the buildings I decide to explore a bit and check things called desert gardens which gives me but the tree is nice because it gives me because this is a run where losing the eight iron And now it's time to undo everything because I well. Anyway, eventually I rebuild both nickel ore. The nickel ore is even more useless Lead is also much less useful than tin, which but it does let us make solder by combining So now theoretically I've got everything need to make it. It's crafted through this so I'll be putting it all on the screen for but it's not actually all that complicated. What created to make it. Seriously, the modpack giving Because now I'll be uncontrollably compelled Sorry if it feels like I'm speeding through this, but this mod is incredibly long and complex every single crafting chain in detail. but fully automated green science. Hopefully from this endless hell of hand crafting, waiting For any mod like this, something like FNEI or items is completely necessary if you value your but power is still holding me back, and so I'm solve that. I stumble across oil processing, waste water, and then a fluid called fuel oil per unit of fluid and seems *much* more efficient We need our waste water to recover the sulfur factory to function. There's some excess, but only before we're negative on sulfur, and that doesn't But looking further, it seems other and that's when I discover *BEANS.* I'll keep you in suspense, but beans. Unfortunately there's a lot First one are these clay bricks, but at lime, and sand manufactures I set up fourteen required for the next steps. Which involves Using the tree we picked up a long time them. But growing them also requires soil, get the mud from the washing plants and in a composter. The blue algae I made earlier Then we can cut the trees into wood with an saw and it's giving me flashbacks can start assembling the parts of this new Again, not that complicated, and I'll just hand I don't need this fully automated anyway, because requires these plant samples can only come from couple dozen at the moment, but fortunately that's So with my 32 science packs, I shove them circuit networks while you weren't looking. Apart from giving us plant samples, the gardens the last three didn't give me what I needed, I snag real quick, and lucky for me, the very With these I can grow binafran in this farm very convenient products of our washing plants. don't think beans and spaghetti We get 30 to 40 binafran out, but we need to set a seed extractor so we can repeat the cycle, where our binafran is finally turned into further into nutrient pulp and finally fed There's lots of plants that also create Now we can feed that fuel oil directly into these also gives off some water as a byproduct, but all we need to do is feed it into the boilers and so there's always room to burn off the water that's bean power. This whole thing is already which is basically more than my entire power One thing worth mentioning is to make the plates for bronze pipes, but they're just Excited by the prospect of being saved from I don't waste much time setting up a more prioritizing sand and saline water and comes with When I start designing the actual build, it can ideally keep one gas refinery a reasonably defined shape. The key word is all I'll need to do is copy and paste it So behold, the tillable bean plant. This the improvement over the 1 MW of the charcoal stop worrying about power problems and yes, those are enemy worms to the So, in a similar philosophy to that of new mineral sludge setup that's easy to repeat enough sludge to meet demand. There's also a which makes it twice as fast. The only caveat to function and spits out used electrodes, It might be tempting to spend twice the footprint but washing the electrodes also which we can use to run our algae farms and stiratite ores. Basically, it's definitely off of the purified water that I can but it actually costs slightly more to wash I build a hydro plant to purify the water instead The electrodes are never destroyed, so it just takes a couple hundred to start You may have noticed that I'm trying very and this is why. Not only is it compact, connect things like the saline I'm built a second one right now just so fit together moving forwards. All this however, and we haven't even started I'm trying to keep the ratios balanced with possible. There's also a recipe that can turn one up because I foresee needing to dispose of It's a good amount of effort to get everything to to route out mineral water and mineral sludge, but going to be worth it when it's done. The final It's worth pointing out the adjustable inserters convenient filter design between two filtration I need to do is drop ten or so frames in This thing is getting quite tall. It's but first we'll need a charcoal factory to feed water byproduct is very convenient and lets us I'm not going to use all this mineral this massive 200,000 unit tank, and add a Now all that's left to do is throw in And there we have it, a repeatable stack ten But there's always adjustments, as I realize plant isn't nearly enough with the electrodes, so I make a dedicated plant off to Since we have a reliable source of sludge now, It's pretty easy to set up because the sludge with than belts. Also these stone pipes aren't really used in anything else and stone is Now, remember how to get pure ores, we had nickel along with it? Well with this advanced we can get pure iron, copper, tin, and lead to create these catalysts. Also we need instead of one, but beyond this, there Then I set up copper in much the steel and brick production down here, but oh well. The crushed stone will be and all the excess will be routed back Despite being three times faster than my old infrastructure it takes to get even a trickle of I start building another three sludge stacks. easily expandable design, but perhaps easy isn't I'm still handcrafting literally everything. electrolyzers, liquefiers, everything. The pace can hand craft is pretty much the pace at which The other thing is that these incredibly because I have no construction bots and far in the future. Let me just level with download something like companion drones to thousands of people, and that's why I'm achieves nothing. Do yourself a favor, Though I will say, there is a bit of zen to the path ahead of you is often as confusing just having a repetitive, but simple task in who knows! Anyway, the end result is a grand per second. It might not sound like much, but That's a lot of power demand though, but all that's another 20 MW into the system. Hard but for the first time it seems like actually More confident in my sludge supply, I set up tin way. After pasting and building, all I need to ores necessary for each resource, and we've a small amount of oxygen, which I'm making I've been leaving some space between them just this decision immediately pays off as other build to create the solder and bronze And because nothings straightforward or this massive rigmarole of making washing all so I can use it to make soil to grow I can turn the wood into wooden boards circuits. At least there's these electronics normal assemblers. Only difference is they can we used first is so incredibly bad that so that's why we're using wood instead. With that So now that I've got all these resources, what I'd but you may have noticed that there's and they all take like five different items each. and even tier four variants of each building four different things. Automating them and if you've watched my other videos, you getting concerned. But don't worry, I'm going to do it all with warehouses. put all the items I need into the same box, any grab whatever it needs to make that building. each warehouse can supply eight assemblers each. and feed into each subsequent warehouse so I can starts with actually getting items *into* the I can't add filtered slots to keep We need to limit the amount of each and we can do that by wiring up these inserters when there's less than a certain amount inside. the same belts before they're all shoved solution is that not only does it fit neatly I can add is no longer restricted by how many As you can see, once there's enough of an Second problem. Because I want to be like gears and throw them back into the I need to wire up the gear assembler's set a condition that also limits Now the third problem is the toughest its own set amount of items, but the inserters would try to take everything out warehouse in the chain. Obviously we need to we're not pulling from a belt that has only one warehouse that has dozens of different items, so Instead, we can use filter inserters set to &quot;Set up items that they're receiving via circuit with the levels of each items we want to maintain of the contents in the warehouse from the constant the filters when the value becomes negative. and an absolute nightmare of manually setting but it's still better than trying to do this be a nightmare, it ends up being very convenient I've got a generic solution to make any building I cannot express how strange it feels after nearly The only thing I'm really missing my old base are electronic circuits. but they're a lot more complicated and counterparts. The smaller electronics assemblers tinned copper wire, and carbon to first make combining charcoal with steam in a liquefier and There's also these groundwater pumps which can it's 1/20th that of an offshore pump, but Those get combined with solder and basic circuits combined with iron plates to make the circuit. here. I can also route those green circuits into inserters and filter inserters too. The adjustable compact, but it is a bit harder to tell exactly which isn't the best for the video but you're You know what, I'm tired of talking about stuff science fully automated at scale. It's a little that's for sure. There's still a and this should take care of the rest of it. Right now I'm basically on cloud nine. I've automated and expandable supply hub, and labs Per Science. However, this is just the beginning feel like I'm only now starting the game for I'm already using 100% of the mineral sludge so before I can start thinking about getting I decide to set up another two sludge stacks everything I need is automated, Also I'll need more power, Also, finally checking it off my to-do list mineral water, instead of flushing it all Getting some Saphrite and Stiratite out of it Now then, that's enough beating around the bush, and hopefully make some actual progress. The main haven't even seen yet, namely silver and setting up another bunch of crystallizers and then crushing it, again, just like before, to process it even further by putting it The flotation cells require purified water to run chunks. These chunks are what will eventually but besides that the process also gives out flouric, and chloric too. On top of that, differently colored geode. Unfortunately I to turn it on all at once, so I can't Sometimes I get lost in just playing the game Anyway, those chunks will then go into the ore have those terrible recipes that would give didn't? Well, they're back, and now we get even mixed in with all the trace amounts of copper, and nickel, and if we want deal with those too. it's very annoying and Regardless, the method I've cooked up is a pretty circular belts and let filter inserters sort them them onto isolated belts. Okay now I actually want more purified water. For that I'll just copy On top of that, I'll need to deal with disposing but not right now, so down the toilet so I'll put another pressure But without further ado, here it is in geodes in a warehouse and all the slag from the with the rest of the stone byproduct so they can I will say, watching all the different colors of So we're slowly getting the ores we need, and we get many more lower tier ores than ones like copper, tin, and lead into the already existing once again patting myself on the back for the furnaces. As usual, priority input splitter so Now about actually using these ores. The first one I'm going to sort out is aluminum, as just throwing it into a furnace. First and I can get more than enough from the hydro flotation cells. With this saline water we're something that isn't slag for once. By zapping well as hydrogen and chlorine gas. I don't have vent all of this environmentally friendly The sodium hydroxide is combined with our to make aluminum hydroxide, which and finally into *another* furnace along with electric boilers I researched are very convenient, belt I already run to fuel the furnaces. After That's one down. Only a few more to go and maybe we can start thinking about Next on the agenda is silicon. We could always make glass out of it, and we need mono silicon but it also takes carbon, and so I just leech can't make the mono silicon we need without a to molten silicon. The nitrogen comes from an we can finally get out the finished mono silicon advanced electronics. But we've also got a multiple steps of turning ingot into silicon to get glass mixture, and finally putting that That's another one down. Tackling mods like this trying to finish, you'll just get burned out, but by step, you'll get there eventually. Unlike the ore into the furnace. Or at least what the Guess what, it's time for more beans, and at once. The washing plants seem three of these with how much sand so I'm not going to stand higher than three Alright, so that's maybe like, half of what we left on the checklist. Remember how our sodium gas? Well now we actually want to combine it into combine it with iron ore to make a ferric chloride There's also cupric chloride, which I don't Now we're going to need to venture into a now. Petrochemicals, and that's where another thing routed straight through that space I make some catalyst frames in order to facilitate hydrogen gas, but the empty frames are returned steam to create propene as well as some residual And what's the end result of this whole and then plastic, but plastic nonetheless. Do you want to know what all these things are just to make advanced circuits, and there's still Fortunately they just take wood and wooden boards, With everything assembled, I can but that's not exactly straight forwards but we still need to make all the electronics got a bit of an obsession with making from assembler to assembler, what we get is a At this point I've pretty much given up on making abundantly clear to me that what I thought might just another starter base, and I've pretty much thing later considering the insane science I just need to get the basics up and running, and The advanced circuits were definitely the we need before we can actually make blue which is a combination of copper and zinc. zinc ore so I won't need to worry as much about a bit weird because they take in molten lead If you remelt the lead ingots, you get all of amount to start and it just keeps cycling they're turned into molten brass along with some The absolute best thing is brass it's just used in one component that we'll need to Here's something I call the wiggle maneuver. your velocity vector, and since you're capable of if you keep jittering side to side the where you'll be and continuously fail. It's After that we're back in petrochem land making mentioned it way back as a potential fuel source it now to make multi-phase oil, and then crude naphtha's what we need, but the mineral oil will go into more detail about thing like the raw gas creates back into the blue algae farms, but if we'll be here forever. What matters is we've Here's all the recipes to do it. The item icons out the artisanal reskins mod for adding even if it's not completely comprehensive yet. and Arch Angel for making the original mods. in plates and in the form of circuits. It's helped out that we can turn into copper ore, but it's a is also pretty much the only thing that consumes because of that, but as it turns out, while it glass. I'll be sure to remember that when I need But there's blue science, and as much as I'd love to start researching I mentioned, and they are *very* annoying to science build and shove it into a chemical Then I need to wait to make like ten billion large because they're an absolute waste of space and them all with the previous tier of labs too. All but there it is. Let's just appreciate it and Within minutes of making blue science, I realize *really* bad. Turns out we need all that wood to that if it weren't for the fact that scavenging I'd probably just make a billion arboretums back to petrochem land. That's the interesting but you're not required to use all of them. the same end product, and it's up to you to can see why I wanted to avoid it though, then that combined with even more carbon dioxide catalysts to make formaldehyde to *finally* make than the wood recipe, but with blue science in Just making a handful of blue science has so it's about time I upgraded some of the should give each lane 50% more slag per second. ingredient step by step, but when it's time to put bad your production really is. Still, it's enough So, after all that you'll never guess what we can building everything by hand, I can finally start the rest of the mod, it's not straightforwards at frame, and a robot tool. I'm planning to make the gotten them before blue science, but it takes make blue science, so you might as well make that Luckily I can pull most of the complicated stuff electric engines, and batteries Also I need to run a giant pipe to my sludge batteries. Then there's fitting room for the tool it's just, uhh... What I'm getting at is, it's a hungry for advanced circuits, so it's going to be of bots, but if I made it this far without Now, remember those geodes I mentioned way back Well the warehouse is almost full, so it's them. Just like slag we can melt them all for each color of geode, and to prevent it a circular belt that prioritizes what's By dissolving the geodes, we get crystal slurry, get out mineral sludge and sulfuric waste. We instead of purified water. Ignore that it suddenly We've got more than enough mineralized water than just sludge later, but for now we're get geodes from water, and it would be a good but at this point that kind of Time to start emptying out the warehouse. the belt with one color of geode, seeing so I make a really quick and dirty color on some filter inserters. While I'm just walking, I'd like to mention the switch to for our sludge, which sounds great on wouldn't require consuming charcoal anymore, but charcoal filtering, and if you switched over to back to dissolve your slag anymore and the entire Back on the topic of robots, why am increasingly cramped space? Well, I'd and exoskeletons as well as a robot network, which has an absolutely pathetic equipment grid much the bare minimum required to maintain military science. And that's finally where Making the ingots takes carbon monoxide, which can combine that with steel to create invar, the in a couple buildings, but similar to glass Here's the recipes for the so-called Ablative science is safe from the insane circuit demands and invar, which is absolutely unsustainable, but enemies are worms, and while those are starting gun turrets is enough for now. It also gives out science, I'm actually bothering to route it Remember when this place looked But there's military science... Slowly... My slow and steady wins the race, or so got power armor loaded with two exoskeletons than a glacier almost feels wrong at this Oh my god... It's beautiful... I don't need My main priority right now is setting up the number of buildings I've got automated, as well as so the bots have access to them. Since my base is there's no longer any room below the warehouses, from the top as I turn this whole warehouse convenient than the alternative, dealing with Speaking of spaghettification, for one very bricks, and that requires a bunch of random cement in a powder mixer. Then I need to do some so we can combine it with water and cement to bricks to make concrete bricks. It goes into the each and every warehouse's constant combinators But all this effort is well worth We've been pretty strained on mineral sludge for network, suddenly adding more sludge stacks is spending 30 minutes doing it by hand. we'll need it to move beyond blue science, However, ready does not imply willing, and I'm Factorio Progression Paralysis. It's when it's to your base instead of actually diving into increasing wood production slightly, adding things I usually cut out, but are great when you're forever, and the beans give me the courage I need Alright, just like with blue science, the some materials we don't have yet, and so now that my side, I'm just going to copy this whole And I decide to finish adding I'm at it. Remember the old base? Well I've already got all the infrastructure needed to and so this whole thing goes up pretty painlessly. Now, remember how when we got green science, ores with the use of a catalyst? Well if you for that crystal slurry, here it is. Instead crystal seedlings, which can then be used to make moment when I'm placing things one by one until Same as before, except using chunks ores and a catalyst to make pure ores. I'm and silicon, because those are the only ones I sorting is still giving me more than enough we'll set it up to where it prioritizes the output on the pure process. And not a moment too soon, I'm also setting it up to make fluorite. called cupric mixture, which then needs which we need to re-lube every time and it means It's a lot of work for a rock, but here it is. Now, you might be wondering why I'm bothering more convenient to make the pure ores, and member. The reason is, I can reuse it. Remember and nitric? Well we actually have a use for them acid. We'll need more than we can recover recovery process is mostly just putting it comes out into a liquefier. We can make The reason we need all this acid is for With these leaching plants we can turn our ore resources from them. Each recipe takes its own which is convenient because it's but it's important to have at least some we'd be missing out on some of It takes a bit of a redesign of the silos to is exactly the same, except we're using ore we've got cobalt, titanium, gold, and uranium. Who It's going to be a while before I've got any making some more tweaks. It's hard to show in I solved a steel shortage earlier by shoving this that uses half steel and half silicon ingots, now That took a load off of iron, but copper's still I can cast into plates, so I decide to to turn it directly into copper coils. It's turned into copper wire, but it's twice as Though I quickly drain my excess of liquid planning on scrapping this base eventually, is of smelting, but there's just no space to fit to fit in these ore processors thanks to some more inserters. Processing the ore first lets us There's another process that would give us another just need to fill the void with dreams of what All this space I intentionally left has a Anyway, now it's time to see about I feel like you've seen this enough times for nickel and invar, in that we need to melt it Gold is the most straight forward, with to plate chain. Except that it takes chlorine gas. Titanium is the most unique of chlorine gas and carbon to make titanium which turns into a titanium sponge, then There's also advanced smelting recipes for When we were aiming for blue science, our main now we've got to make processing units. All and we'll start with the boards. We'll need glass glass, and this is literally the only use for Just like how electronic circuits took tin processing units need gold wire to make the basic components and the transistors as well. and we've got our processing units. Plus four already slow advanced circuit production, That's alright though. As I said, we're science per minute is enough to finish a lot of job is mostly going to be creating supplies to With that in mind, I waste little time setting sciences with what we've got. The first one is even things like this are fairly straightforward line. It is a little bit weird though. Because as much sulfur as it takes in, so we need to get and put it into the network and assume the The other half of the science requires methane petrochem product to date. Because I need to turn the raw gas byproduct of oil refining into to get methane, ethane, and butane, as well as don't need and I'm just going to collect in rough automation and it's already a headache. *Finally* we create this bio silicate extract, throw that in a furnace, and combine it half of purple science. *phew*. This but I've already got scrap handling set up in We're getting there. Before we can make the real imagine progressing forwards without. The first We'll need to expand... a lot. but so much of the getting to strong for gun turrets to handle them. far outside their range. I could've gotten 2,000 to research, which is going to kill But after some copious use of the time warp, the artillery shells, which thankfully don't and the rest I just pull off the bus as usual, And just like that, worms are no longer a threat I will want to be careful where I the gardens and trees I'll be wanting Speaking of science, the second research we science first, but I'll bet some of you The pink science is a lot easier than the to dip into petrochem land and most of the like lube and electronics, which I can just Plus it doesn't have any scrap byproduct. which will be the main bottleneck for actually but pretty soon we've got the seventh science. And as for our mystery research, if you We've successfully spaghetti'd our way to bot can't beat the convenience and expandability of a little thing into provider chests and making a It'll take a while for everything to I'll also want to make tons of However, you may have noticed the length going to need to be multiple parts. and I still feel like I've only scratched the little island. We went from struggling to get thousands. Buoyed by beans, we expanded and until finally we've got the power to automate good stopping point. Progressing further is going and something tells me it's going to I'd like to thank my Patrons for making incredible amount of time to play and edit down and it's really reassuring to feel like and can just do what I want. Thanks for the And to close this video out, please enjoy the