- One of the first things Patti builds our trompo here every day. So we get really nice heritage pork. This is going to be very, It's going to get marinated in an adobo. We've got, like, guajillos and anchos, garlic, cumin, all that stuff in there. So what she's going to do is and then she'll pile some All the onions end up getting, like, just - So Pascual is based and We're like, we're not and if we're going to choose one taco, has to be al pastor taco. That, for me, is the - Isabel, being from Mexico city, home of the al pastor taco, - [Isabel] It's inspired and it used to be but coming to Mexico, and pork was very abundant. So it's basically a shawarma - Al pastor and an octo to 41. - Fire a trout followed by fideos and two pastor. - Cinco tortillas, por favor. We're going to wrap this up, let it marinate for a couple hours and then we'll set it up (upbeat percussive music) - First thing in the morning, the most important part of Today, we're cleaning yellow corn, conico and bolita azul. So the corn gets cooked the Our first person is going that skin that got This is how it looks before it's cooked and this is how it looks after. Like the outer shell of becoming softer. That's what breaks the Mexican cuisine starts with corn. Everybody that thinks of Mexican So it's important for us and showcase it in the best way. Corn's going to go through through this area. So the family of corns are and red corn. They all taste different, you know, just like the blue corn mushrooms, earth. For me, this one tastes more like a butter and you can smell it. It smells so, so good like the starch, the corn starch but it The next part of that process, after we have the masa, we're and to check that the water where we want it and we know nice tortilla that is The next step of the process, 'cause we need to season it with salt so we have a percentage for it. We're going to paddle it, adjust water, and then we're going to portion For me, I'm a pastry chef, I see masa as if it was and the combinations and you know? (machine whirs) The next step is going to get portioned. Maria's going to start It all has different weights. These ones will get divided The blue is going to be and flautas. - We just got our delivery to us overnight from New York. So we get golden chickens, We're going to get the process going. We'll pass these off to Chef Brandon. He's going to break them and then get 'em on marinade so they're ready to go for tonight. - I'm removing the head and the backbone so I can split the chicken in half. So once these are split, that's made with oranges, and they'll stay in brine for four hours. After being brined, we put them on a tray to allow the skins to dry so that the marinade can stick better. - What we really like of see all this beautiful Whereas like most chickens in They want big chicken breasts They grow these a lot slower and they get a lot more time to feed. So they've developed all this fat so that's what we're after. - [Brandon] We probably sell So a case of chickens So now these will sit in the we'll pull them out, we will and from there they'll get - This is the centerpiece We put this in and then kind of built everything else around it. I think when we were looking of our number one things is with live fire? We've been to Oaxaca and for me was like one of the &quot;Oh, this is like really special.&quot; You walk into the market and there's just people and they're making tlayudas and grilling meats and stuff like that. We have the mage here, the leaf that we're going to roast pretty hard and this is what we're going after we grill them off. - Traditionally with algo it's like a pit. You build a bed of agave and then you put your meats, there's no way there's going but we can get the closest to it. - We're going to roast this. So again, to like kind of flavor that's in the dish. That water that's inside, we This is a very important step to make sure that it's roasted 'cause we don't wanna put in It takes us three days to get on a plate and all it takes is not and it ruins the the dish. So now we're going to set So we get the neck. These We do about 150 pounds of this a week. And so what Brandon's the brine for the lamb. We brine this for 24 to 36 hours. It's very straightforward, the - So this is the lamb neck So now we're going to take it and rub it in our adobo So we have two different dried and pasilla Oaxaquena. There is some cumin, garlic, avocado leaf, some apple cider vinegar. And then that's all blended that we soak the chiles in. So we go through a couple hundred pounds pretty easily in a week. Each of these lamb necks So it's a good amount of meat very tender, very flavorful. For me in particular, I think of after-church tacos with - We have our lamb necks They've been on brine for about 30 hours and then we're going to and smoke on these before we braise them. So kind of rendering that nice smoke on here before these go in the oven to finish. (fan whirs) Instead of fanning like and we had all seen it on and we bought this and Gets the fire going much faster. We'll wrap that in agave We're trying to really mimic that, burying it in a pit in the ground. They got nice and caramelized like that. All those nice bits in there are going to be really, really good. Part of why we use this cut, there's cartilage and there's fat that's just going to add This was the one we were and we don't wanna waste any It's all going to go end up being the consomme. So this will get wrapped and then put in the It's 2:30 now so we're that we built earlier in the so we can start cooking. Getting it on about 2:30, it for 5:00 for service. So it's set up there and then just kind of the heat from our burn and it's just going to low We'll throw more wood in there. So it'll really start to cook But for right now we just to temperature. And this onion and kind of drip down there So these are the of brine after a couple hours. We have a marinade here that we've made with some chilies, honey, orange juice, cumin, black pepper. So this will kind of go all And because of the sugar it will really, the smoke and char will stick to these nicely. And then we'll take our meat hooks and we just go right through. There's still some of the bones in here. We've only removed some of 'em so it will help protect the meat as well. And these guys are just going to get hung right up over here over the fire. And we'll move them around as we need during service depending on how fast or how slow they're cooking. And we we'll see, as these start to go, we'll start to see like fat dripping and rendering outta here. This meat will almost start That's how we know the leg will be done. - Another one of the desserts that we did from the beginning, bunuelos. I'm obsessed with bunuelos. What we're doing today It is more traditional kind Like I'm a pastry chef but I also like to do this So this is Patti's and I think her palate is very similar to what I grew up with. So this was like one of those dishes that I'm like, &quot;We're making bunuelos.&quot; She's like, &quot;Oh I got you, I got you.&quot; In Mexico kitchens there's Like you have your chefs, your sous chefs, you know, your line cook. There's always going to be a majora and it's a position of respect. It is usually a woman that will play the part for everybody. It's the person that if you not working, she's going to answer to you. Here, I think we have a couple of majoras. Our A.M. definitely could be Patti. The mold needs to be warm. We preheat it on the oil and and then it touches the oil. The fry oil will cook it really fast. It takes like, we for like a minute 'cause we So this is where the mold goes, creating kind of like a tart shell. You see it in fine dining in restaurants, they do it for those little tartlets. It's the same technique, you know, we just do it on a bigger scale. And this is not the biggest mold I've had. I have a bigger mold than this, but they prohibited me we didn't have a plate that could host that big of a bunuelo. And the next stop for a chocolate sauce. We're going to make it a ganache, or cream, we're using water. We're making a tea with Mexican cinnamon, some star anise, some piloncillo, some brown sugar, that's going to take a little longer. So I'm just going to get And then for chocolate we we have dark chocolate, like and we also mix it with Mexican chocolate. This is a very bitter This is come from Chiapas. So I'm just going to wait get flavor and then I'm going to strain it and put it on top of the chocolate. That's going to be my chocolate The last part of the bunuelo, it gets tossed into a We want the sugar to from the cinnamon. So we're ironing a new dish for the menu. - We're heading into fall. It's definitely gotten a little cooler. So we've kind of noticed where of slowed down a little bit, around with like how do we serve raw fish or slightly cooked fish a little warm? - So we got a nice piece we marinated in mezcal. We're going to smoke it above the grill. - We're just basically and let it pick up some or so, not to cook it, just to hopefully get some of that flavor on there. To keep with the thought of everything's been touching the grill. - So we're making a mojo de ajo. This one, instead of oil, for brown butter. The idea is a fish that's cured and on top of it has And the butter, we're going to - [Matthew] Our thought do this at the table. So like usually the mojo de ajo is just like lots of garlic and stuff. So it'd be really aromatic - I think when we are have aligned a lot. - Yeah, I think we both and fresh and acidic. So we love having that like and like I think that's We'll cut this down so we So like the tail definitely so we'll have to watch that. And then you wanna garnish with radish? - I might be getting excited with radish. That's my issue, I always and I think there's two - In between the leaves? But it'd be too... - [Matthew] No, I like that. - I think there's always of like, &quot;How can you work And how could you not? Like your partner is the so why could I not? - I like the radish. The radish is almost like a pop of wasabi. - [Isabel] Do we need more onions on it? - A little salt. Like working together is great for us. I think we get to bounce and there's what her strong points are are probably my weaknesses and vice versa. So it's like it really I think it needed a little salt. I think we need to figure out exactly how we get it to the table. But I think for the weekend - No, tonight, no? - Tonight? do it tonight. - Let's do it. definitely do it tonight. - All right. It's four o'clock here now. So the PM crew has started to show up. The AM crew that has been is heading in towards the finish line. This is a major crunch time. Like you can see the stoves for our PM cooks to be So there's a lot happening right now to be ready in the next hour. - What do we have? So we We have no ducks tonight. We do have a new special today. It's going to be still called trout and we're going to put it table size. So I'm going to give you guys a pod. I can come to the tables, That's all I have guys. Let's have fun. - [Matthew] Alright guys, we - [Isabel] So this is all the masa and now we're going to This is a process that we do all day. Tortillas, it's one of those techniques, it's about how you press it The tortilla only gets The first one to set up the and then we do a third So these ones we're going to dry them after those get used to eat - [Matthew] Right now we're of our guacamole plate. So this is our guacamole. We've made pickled jalapenos One little twist that we do here is, this is again the avocado leaf. This is our way to get burnt We've charred avocado leaf and onions. Looks kind of dark when you get it. And then as soon as you dig really nice bright So you're going to get your chips. This is a crema with onion and cilantro. This is our escabeche. This is going to be some And then we're going to go our salsas, which we always go from mild. So we're going to have our salsa cruda. There'll be habanero salsa macha. And then we'll finish this and lime juice over the That's kind of the base of everything. Salt and lime at the end is like what makes Mexican food so good. (upbeat music) - [Isabel] Mexico City salsa verde is like the fresh one. We gotta do some fresh white onion. Listo! - So far your heads up on a lamb, a side of rice and a chicken. We serve this with spring onions. So what we do is we have these served along with the chicken. So all these dishes are kind of meant to be served family style. We break this down a little bit. It's still served on some of the bones, but we'll cut this into four So we serve the chicken with fried rice. So we're kind of looking like fried rice. (upbeat music) - Fire chile chayote, followed by a chicken - [Matthew] Fire an octo fire hamachi, third course, Hands please. - [Isabel] Let's fire table 32. That's a barbacoa and - [Matthew] So this will go right on top. - You owe me, chef. One We're in the middle of service, The energy's like really good. I think the kitchen's killing it and everything's going according to plan. We're going to have a Aguachile, chayote. Fire Pascual, guac and six tostadas please. - We wanted to do Mexican food and represent it correctly in DC and showcase like, how diverse it is and how much more we can do with it. So it was really about like, let's do all the techniques and showcase it to people it doesn't have to just be a taqueria. So that's kind of what Pascual is. - Mexican cuisine was the base. I'm from Mexico City and and that's kind of like the I got you. It's a place to make It's a place where I get to meet and cook with more Mexican cooks and it's a place where of talented chefs here Tranquila, tranquila, tranquila. And just explore Mexican as far as we could in (soft music) (gentle music)