RB is a 42 year old man, presenting to the He tells the admitting nurse that the earlier that day until he finally couldnt he starts to lose feeling in RB was living with his wife Zoe. They had RB was out in the park. He was he ran into his neighbor. This but, RB was with a woman who wasn't Zoe. The knew that the neighbor knew that something didn't know that RB was married. And this Zoe had thought something was going on with her saw. And she couldn't deal with this. She scrubbed Browser History. DM's. She called the Internet websites accessed. She looked up who this woman One evening, Zoe and RB were at home together, to fend off this thief, but he was seriously husband if he was ok, and told him that she so he should just relax. She knew how to make As the days passed, RB started noticing back up. Zoe told him, he needs to really been stressful and he just Zoe would watch RB live in a world of hurt. The He started noticing that he was losing more but he didnt know why this was happening. One day, Zoe made RB a tuna sandwich for dinner. RB felt something was wrong. He he drove to work. But in the car, his hands even a slight breeze against the back of skinned alive. He had to stop on the side of steering wheel anymore. He calls for 911 and he's At examination, RB looked fine. Typically, when tapped, there's a reaction. This is called the records say that hes healthy. This reflex should RB didn't have it. A tuning fork vibrates. This is medical team put a tuning fork to RB's foot, they vibrate anymore. But he never said stop because Given that RB has an intense, building pain in and that he can't feel vibration in his feet, it is it only his nerves? When the medical team did was wrong in his brain. At least not yet. This any problems, but this peripheral neuropathy, nervous system, neuro, and opathy referring to a something is wrong with the nerves far from his And coupled together with Gastrointestinal something wrong with the nerves, it gives the Nothing happening to RB looks immediately or a cardiac arrest. Neuropathy could have been of nutritional deficiencies. Or maybe infection. that people are going to check for everyday. he starts telling the nurse that the pain was he starts to become somnolent. he slurs his speech. His eyelids start to from him. All of this indicating that whatever's This sudden and quick decline in his not only inside his body causing this, but intentionally. Maybe against his knowledge. tuna sandwich that he couldnt finish. A sandwich as an act of revenge or malice. Put together, Relationships are messy. Sometimes they're toxic. but taking control of your internet security do that with NordVPN. Is your browser history, of a button, and now no one can call your internet locked movies, TV and anime with someone special? Japan that arent available in the United States? and now you can see them! Wanna travel the world, and hotels because travelers booking in the US can to book from another country? Connect to NordVPN covered! A VPN connects you to the internet as if the world, but you're still home, virtually, with desktop, you got it. I bought NordVPN with my own you the same huge deal that I got, up to 4 months Zoe had had a background in making and selling that could cause an effect on an adult man, but she spoofed an email with a lab supplier to be a pesticide in the United States we look at the periodic table, Thallium means it's a heavy metal, but what Most elements that build the structures in at least of what we think we know of it right because small and light usually means more are considered reactive. They'll interact with and that's what causes permanent it might not be small and light. And it refers to that atomic structure, and this The periodic table is organized by trends and designed to help give reference to the Elements in a column together have similar the heavier and more massive the element is. Each group make up bodily structures, but things Each time we count up by 1, in the periodic to spot patterns while counting up, one of right after Magnesium. But if we go 1 down, This row inbetween contains elements you This brings us back to atomic structure. As more complex. When we count up by 1, along a row, charged particles the element's atom has. Pure meaning for every proton, there is one negatively Gallium indicates that there's additional doesnt exist between Aluminum and Magnesium. can be found given their higher energy levels. we get another break in the pattern right when there's more energy to account for. If the scientific words used to describe these Given its place in the periodic table, it tells us Something called a monovalent cation. Mono referring to capacity, in this case electron capacity. And Cation referring to the positive charge. So Thallous Ion is missing an electron. We've already established that the body likes elements. So what other common elements are periodic table, in Group 1, we have Hydrogen, which functionally is acid. humans so it's not that common, and then sodium, and we notice that Thallium is more similar Thallium is heavier and more reactive than tell the difference between the two, what happens On the surface of cells are numerous Sodium out of a cell and Potassium in. If Thallium is causing intracellular accumulation. these pumps stop working altogether. This explains what was happening to RB's signals from the nerves to the brain the difference in positive and negative charges This starts in the periphery, before making pumps also need energy to function, Energy production begins with breaking Glyco referring to glucose and lysis referring chemical called Pyruvate, and the part this conversion is something called Pyruvate Kinase requires Potassium. But in been pumping in Thallium. Pyruvate Kinase can't Pyruvate is needed to enter the Citric Acid several chemicals in order to produce adenosine triphosphate, the body's Succinate Dehydrogenase needs Potassium But RB's body can't tell the difference cycle is shut down. And without this reduced The nerves and the muscles are closely and they're supposed to have large amounts they dont have energy anymore, and they can't his body's machinery has mistaken Thallium for This still isn't his only problem. Old alchemists containing substances, particularly of the why you'll sometimes find they're called meaning capturing mercury. In more modern but heavy metals like to interact with Sulfur. which is an antioxidant that protects contains Sulfur. If RB's body has too much then this protective mechanism is There's 20 distinct amino acids make up all the proteins in our bodies. which is the protein that makes up hair, And given that Zoe appeared to be feeding he presented to the emergency room, it should But is there any way to remove Thallium from medical team still only suspects that this is what incapacitated that he can't even talk anymore. can find specifically Thallium. Presuming this Prussian Blue is an artificially synthesized Its molecules arrange into a crystal Potassium. If Thallium can be substituted in greater affinity for these substrates than trap and contain the Thallium in RB's blood. But and then get in to the cells of those organs and we dont know if Prussian Blue actually he's connected to a machine and his blood out for him. But that also doesnt mean the Thallium The heart is a muscle that's connected to kept absorbing into RB's body, energy production Nerve impulses couldnt be sent. And enzymes containing residues, all because of the to the emergency room, his symptoms RB's heart stops beating. The hospital calls a his room to try to give CPR and give immediate Zoe believed that Thallium was something that the medical team had collected RB's urine and sent thallium. They had suspected it in the first with alopecia, hair loss, that quickly starts very specific findings, when found at the words that RB uttered to his sister before She poisoned me. And now I'm going to die." Thallium poisoning in the United States isn't considered especially in patients AND symmetric sensorimotor neuropathy. a treatment for it isn't quick and easy, and At autopsy, the examiner found high and in all of his organs. They found that his cord had been compressed and other parts had were found in his lungs. Cerebrospinal fluid is the spinal cord. It has functions like waste function. Multiple samples of RB's Cerebrospinal and retesting them showed that they contained discovery about Thallium poisoning and it prompted But knowing that it's impossible to easily in the United States, this suspected of another person. The medical team had alerted the hospital. And in a court of law, years Thanks so much for watching. Take