[UPBEAT MUSIC] Welcome to We're coming to you from here at our office [VIDEO GAME MUSIC] We've got a fun show for you things coming to the A brand new, never inside info directly from into the wider including some exclusive Everything we'll show is coming very soon. In fact, you'll be playing The community has always been Your creativity and passion inspires us to create, both Thinking back to even the official was made by the community. When I first started this wonderful was one of the first things Whenever I rewatch it, I think and how this game has changed NARRATOR: Let's go everything is made of blocks, your imagination. Let's go wherever climb the tallest to the darkest you want day or because this is the most set foot in. Build a majestic castle, or take a ride on Play with friends. Build your own little community. Protect yourself with that you can craft and fight No one can tell you what With no rules to follow, That trailer really We've come so far, and the same game we all love. We have now celebrated and it's been an A few highlights are the marketplace summer celebration, I started working on related projects At first, I was coding had a small apartment turned Now I'm Mojang's chief and I try my best to help all Minecraft experiences. The world of Minecraft is and you might wonder to explore so many stories and The truth is that have been doing this Every player has their and their own take We take inspiration when we explore new things. Minecraft Dungeons of the arch-illager, Legends went back you lead mobs into battle Today you'll hear about we're telling stories and exploring more of what Minecraft can be. Soon we'll get to see the to life on the big screen, our Minecraft Movie. I had the opportunity to travel and finally see the It's one example is growing in entertainment, all is still the game. The teams working on and we want to create the best will help us and creators to The core Vanilla gameplay with Tricky Trials. Now we're planning to have of releasing new features. Earlier this year, they which included armadillo and the ambition is to nuggets more frequently. These more regular updates will that you might be used to. This will also allow us to to ensure we can build When we expand into new areas, is that it starts with Vanilla, you saw, that is and it's still our favorite You can rely on us, will last another 15 and more. [MINECRAFT MUSIC] [CARTOONISH GLUGGING] Hello, everyone. I hope you all are well. As Jens mentioned, me are working on drops. And today we are excited that we have been working will release within A little bit later in the show, show you a completely new with its own unique mood. But before that, we would love It's a combination of have been wishing for. It's hardcore mode in and we call it And we have two members that will show more. [MINECRAFT MUSIC] Hardcore mode is your experience, except Playing hardcore that feeling of the first because everything is new, but now your entire is dangerous all adds to the level of excitement that you do. Everything is new, because you can't afford to In Java and in Bedrock, we have for getting into hardcore mode. So in Bedrock, we have that you flip that says, I want But my favorite part is you have your little that you're about to join, a the hardcore heart so you really know to have a very difficult When you've been playing you get into a routine, on the regular that are But when you play hardcore mode, and create an entirely that is maybe a little unless you want to play very But your experience to be unique and very different, changes the entire [MINECRAFT MUSIC] I'm super excited for and maybe you'll if you're able to bring in the new bundles. CREW: This is Matthew. Take one. We added bundles to into their inventory. So in old versions of Minecraft, you might end up with 64 and it fits into Today, if you dig you're going to get a Even if it's only they're going to take a because they don't A bundle lets you pack reclaim that space, and feels like it did back in When we first came up with we wanted to make sure it was So we watched a whole lot of survival Minecraft. We waited until they and then we took a screenshot. Then we went through all what could this player What we found is that most eight inventory slots or more, to carry more of The main advantage is that you can If you're going out on you can pack things and have a lot more before it fills up and you There are a lot of creative You could create a dye a bundle in and give it to them with Bundles are also an or it could be used The idea of having kind of inherently cute and fun. Da, da, da, da, da, da, Breaking news. We interrupt this Minecraft live There's been a monster sighting. Here's villager number nine. Thanks number five. Villager number 15 here says right there in those woods. So, number 15, have you ever What? I'm not lying. I was with my group and the They're all gone. Maybe they just you know, because What? That's ridiculous-- All right. To put an end to these I'm going to go into and prove there's no monster. All right, let's go. Oh, you're heading Very well. But I must warn you. Those who enter there [EVIL LAUGHING] What? Why not? No, this is just The exit's over there. [SPOOKY MUSIC] All right, come on. Everybody keep their Of course, we know What about zombies? Skeletons? [ALL TALKING] It didn't look All right. What did it look like? Uh, I couldn't see it clearly. It was behind a tree. Convenient. Hey, wait. Does anyone feel like I hope so. We need the ratings. [RUMBLING] Did anybody hear that? Hear what? The Creaking. I'd say it was Hey, wait. Where's villager number 31? Is that XP? Ah, the monster got him! [ALL CLAMORING] No, no. That could have and emeralds, and sign that says I'm being attacked by a monster. It's circumstantial at best. Let's move on. Yeah, that does make sense. All right, well, Let's keep going. I thought he said Yeah. All right. We've been here for a while and Yeah, we should Which way was that again? Oh, no, we're lost. What? No. Does anyone know the way back? Villager number 47 will know. He's a cartographer. Where's villager number 47? Hey, someone left a Maybe there is a monster. There's no monster. Who said that? [ALL SCREAMING] It's going to get to us. Villager number five, it has afflicted the group. Stunned by the notion that there The cameraman and I are for unrelated reasons. Goodbye. Hey, what's behind that tree? [SCREAMING] Oh, no, Villager number nine. Villager number Is anybody there? [CREAKING] [TONE BEEPING] I guess we'll never this tragic chain of events, but Well, sorry for Now back to Minecraft Live. Da, da, da, da, da, da. Villager news. [MINECRAFT MUSIC] [LAVA BUBBLING] It's been a long announced our Minecraft movie. We've taken our time to and to create an original, universe. From us at Mojang, our and Legendary, our Jared Hess, and some We're bringing Minecraft you've never seen before, all capturing the by working with people who play, as much as you do. Let's hear from some and take a closer look Let's do it. And action. I'm Torfi, creative director I'm Jared Hess, the We're super excited to share about how we made this movie. To be able to celebrate that that is Minecraft. It was just like, We first started talking is over a decade ago. We really wanted And then spending like, three we've really We thought a lot about And we chose live action because been seen before on this scale. Creators have made and short films, and content and it was like, this is the to do something different. And also kind of because I've always what would happen if I would world, like, how would I survive The idea of being human going into this cubic and how those characters And it just seemed Everything is cubic, We had just an of talented artists. Our production he was the production of the Rings trilogy. We also are working with WETA. And they all had their with the game. So when they started it just really popped. What I like about that the choices you the story and the character. Part of that is because every player, they bring to what they're doing. It's very intentional is called A Minecraft Movie, as We have an ensemble these unlikely misfits that into the overworld. And we experience a of our characters named Henry. He's a young man going through and he literally has So I'm on the reading the script like wait, in his room, like, But that's what he is. He's like a maker Such a big part of Minecraft and modding. So we thought that the Henry basically the modder, the person and tweaks it and adjusts it. And then he comes into and he meets Steve. And Steve knows everything We've always said that Steve Like, Steve is what And we've all embodied and done different things. So our Steve in this He is such a huge After a long day up until the wee hours It was so funny because dude, we've Some build that he did happened to him. He just loves the idea his version of Steve to life. Play it from the Figuring out When the game came even-- there wasn't a recipe what if-- what happens if I When Garrett's character come into the world, they They don't know what to do. The Jason Momoa character, a world championship video gamer of peaked then, but he's He's got a little bit He's holding on to We want to show you a Henry and Garrett and Steve. Steve is kind of and then Garrett tries to Yeah, and Garrett's the noob. [DRAMATIC MUSIC] This is a crafting table. Here's how it works. You place these elements in [RESOUNDING CLANG] You got yourself a sweet blade. You want to see a blade? I'll show you a blade. Yeah. [METAL RATTLING] Hammer. Kazam- That's OK, bud. Buckets are useful here. When we were and talking about what we basically started at We looked at the looked at the in-game has this super pixelated there on the side. So obviously, that was built table. So we got this hammer we honor the three by and thought it would and gratifying to just and then have things appear. Remember when we were trying to that you break itself. When Steve holds a block, And there we actually found by one meter, which is like, is actually too big. So we scaled it is like 60 centimeters cubed, by two feet. And then in the background, we sometimes scaled But we would always honor powers and we like powers of two. We had to honor what you but also make it for our different are manipulating the and throwing blocks and make but still feel to what people and feel authentic in that way. That's a wrap on Minecraft! This has been so much fun everything that's gone into the point of view, and we cannot the world. Yeah. Super excited to see Yeah. The filmmakers are still hard and collaborating closely as well as listening to continue to shape and fresh and new, but still of the game. Look for more [MINECRAFT MUSIC] Do you want to adventure in real life? You may have your chance with Rescue, our first real where you'll get to adventure in real life. Let's take a behind before it debuts in and spawning in cities [CREW SPEAKING]. The premise of First thing is authenticity. Our goal is to make authentic for all of you folks. The second thing is from which you can interact with the brand. This is a story of a and it's your quest to We have 17 foot can interact with throughout, like fight our mobs, chop down everything that only this time you've This is an experience going to see, it's like to be in Minecraft. World premiere is in and then we'll see where we go. Head to the website you want to see The And now it's time to reveal releasing in a few months. The team has been really a new biome, and we created and identity. [AMBIENT MUSIC] During day time, it's in the new Pale Garden. While you might feel calm there's also an eerie mood. Something isn't quite right. Then when darkness feel another side of this place. Like the hanging moss pretty to really spooky, and you There's something So everything about this and this is by design. We want you to and scared, like, Why is it so different What we needed for the biome and we've created the pale This really inhibits and how far you can see, but So you're traversing and you're trying but you don't know what will Yeah, it gives you a strange It's unnaturally quiet weird is going on here. I really like the It invokes really those Yes, eerie indeed. And turns out there actually in the shadows. The Creaking. [HORROR MUSIC] It's our first and it's almost like it's And when it's dark kind of hard to see it, Yeah. And it also interacts with Yeah. There's a special new block When you approach you can actually realize that And when you try to hit in the canopy. That's where basically and that's what One of the main themes of the is that there's from the rest of the world. So when we made the wanted it to be-- feel from other mobs, which is why to really go on this point of else. The Creaking doesn't It's more of like a puppet of Heart. So The Creaking Heart really comes with a new combat both in the way that we block to actually kill the that The Creaking only So don't blink. I really like the sandbox-iness So if I use Silk and then you can want in the Minecraft world. So if you want to be as evil you can place it and make [OMINOUS MUSIC] To embrace the we added ambient that only plays during the night surrounds you, that will experience for the player. And to do that, you need and the contrast of the So to make Creaking, I that will make creaky sounds. Obviously, the be to gather wood and twigs and to get rustling and creaking. But I also recorded salty I think it's Swedish? And one of the biggest is my table, creaking, dragging a chair. I also recorded teeth. It sounds a bit like bones, So it's-- What do you mean by teeth? Oh, OK. So we wanted to make the this very eerie feeling, right. And with this gray tones, was going to be a And this is something have wanted for a long time. Yeah, I'm super wood set, especially people paint their fences white, fence, and that will be to actually And then we also and you can bonemeal And so I think just and maybe put it and things hang from the Something, something fun to build with it, I think. Yeah. And it's also really because it's also spreads all And that's also We look for a So we've looked at all these all over the world. A tree that stood out was because it's very hanging, and it feels very eerie. Then we looked at This was like, the inspiration moss that we've eventually, because this gives without being willow trees. And it was a little and flexible to and could also be used [SPOOKY MUSIC] We are super you do with this new features We want to create because the Minecraft and we really want And The Creaking Heart and it really has a this kind of connection. So it's going to be really fun And it's actually coming to very soon, so soon you Villager number nine here. Sorry for interrupting and I have just escaped And I'd just like to that I was right. There is, in fact, a monster in and sounds like wood. What? That's a lie. You didn't believe that at all. He didn't believe me. But in my heroic foray into number nine, single handedly that I shall now It's called a Creaking. They literally Maybe I should go I'm clearly very good at it. Villager number It's got a nice ring to it. Well, sorry to interrupt Now back to Minecraft Live. Stick around with playthrough of the pale starting in just a few moments. Our developers will take us on a drop as we bravely explore These new game drops can be soon, and will release to We hope you're as excited as in the world of Minecraft. Minecraft wouldn't be what it From all of us at Mojang [WHIMSICAL MUSIC]