- I bought a dado stack for the table saw. I wanted this for two reasons. I wanted to be able to make dados, 'cause I wanted to start making shelving that doesn't have pocket holes. I want to be able to start- I know I'm the pocket hole king, I know that. However, we gotta be able and this is part of that. So dados that fit perfectly and are more structurally sound I also wanted to be and while this isn't perfect, this was my third attempt, and it is dang close, and it looks good. I'ma show you how to do that as well. We could also make tenons, or even tongue and So this dado stack says DeWalt, Jet, SawStop, and other saws. This is a Delta. It should work with this too. These are the two outside blades. Those are metal shims. Then the backside are three of those, and then more metal shims. I'll be taking that out. So from everything that I've read and researched on these things, this side goes out, the Chipper blades, make sure the Snug fit. And you want to make sure these teeth aren't on top of each other. They want to be alternating. If you put them on top of each other, it will actually throw everything off and you would probably bend it So the shims that actually come with this, they're almost, like this I mean check that out. And they get thicker as you And then, and these are So there's plenty of micro-adjustments. I'm building a table saw sled and a- (wood piece falls on table loudly) I'm building a table saw sled. This is my fence, and I want to put a and that's where the dado stack comes in. Yeah. So it's slightly less than I actually think that's So we're going to try that. Rookie mistake. (laughs) I actually forgot that this wouldn't fit. What I'm going to do is sacrifice and order another one. And that way I'll have, I can actually use the dado stack and then I'll have this to keep Bye-bye zero clearance. You served me well. (saw activates) Spinny. Why didn't I buy one of those years ago? Oh my goodness. Look at that. (laughs) So easy. So easy! Now let's see if the T track's gonna fit or if I need to adjust. Oh look, look, look. Perfect, perfect. Yeah, that is fantastic. Yeah, buddy. I don't know if I can be That was perfect. On the first try too. Having these little digital Now this one come at the but it's expensive. But as he says, buy once-cry once, kind of thing. I wanted to get one that was accurate and I could use it for a while. So check that out. So as you can see, that's Well, that's what it's supposed to do. It cuts dados. Hey, if you're getting click that subscribe button below. If you click the bell icon next to it you get notified of all our new content. So the next thing I And if you've ever tried to you know how difficult that is. You just multiple, multiple passes, especially when you get So I'm gonna (hits the test a half lap using the dado stack, and see how well it works. So when I'm out here no matter if I'm cutting or I like to listen to And that's where today's Chirp is an audio book retailer that offers amazing, limited There are hundreds of audio for up to 95% off. And unlike other audio book retailers there's no subscription fee, You can just choose the and not worry about a recurring payment. And you can go to chirp's website and find a lot of limited time deals. Specifically what I want to I know a lot of you are in or you're trying to get in There's a lot of business books on chirp in that limited time deal section, just go to the chirp's home page, click on that featured deals, and find the books that If you check the link in you can go to Matt's I actually like 'Start With &quot;How great leaders inspire This is an extremely good book. I also really like 'The by Eric Larson. He's probably one of my especially for history. It's like reading a So I highly recommend this one if you're into World War II history, specifically Winston Churchill. This is probably on the top one or two of my favorite books of all time. I really love this book. I've also picked out on my page that are under $5. If you want to check those out. You can get one of on chirp for 50% off, using Just check the link in to take you over there and check them out. I really appreciate that. A big thank you to chirp, today's sponsor. Go check them out. Use that link in the description. It helps me out. It helps them out. Thank you. So these are the ones that However, half lap. I need some micro adjustments there, just to get everything nice and flush, but that was really fast. It only took a couple of minutes actually to do that half lap. So I just made a quick finger joint jig. I looked up 'Make Something', how to make a joint box joint jig. And this is how he did I'll drop a link in the If you want to check that out. (relaxed country music) Not terrible, not terrible. Third attempt at box joints. The first two attempts I'm just adjusting and trying to get everything back right. You can see I didn't have but I'm just playing around just to see. I'm learning pretty quick. It's actually really easy to do. It's a little proud. As you can see it looks good. Check that out, man. This is just two scrap pieces, and I'm very happy with And I'm excited to see what we can make now that I can do box So let's say we're making a frame and we want to inlay it with a You're just gonna to want which is a quarter-inch thick plywood, and we're just wanting (mechanical saw cuts wood) So I made a rabbit out of my hat. The reason you're using is so that you can get so that it doesn't, it but it also doesn't cut And then if this was a frame, and we were going to lay plywood this would be perfectly flush, and we can just brad nail or (upbeat bass music) So you can also cut tenons like this. Mortises you would course need But this worked really well for that. Just to actually cut that. I would probably need to on each side to give it, make But for the most part that worked well. Probably something I'm gonna so that I can get better instead of just using pocket holes. I just want to learn some more new stuff. (upbeat bass music) The reason I wanted the and the main reason I wanted it, was because I wanted to just as such as this. So that, look at that. So perfect. Such a perfect fit. That's why I wanted this dado stack because you can dial it in that perfect. Look at that. That is one tight seam right there. I mean, this is why I is to cut dados. This is a three-quarter inch plywood. You can actually dial it in, because three quarter inch plywood is never three quarter inch, to where it's a perfect fit. It has a tiny bit of play in there. I actually cut it just a little wide so that it would slip in and out easily. If I wanted to make that I could actually do that just remove one of those A clamp and glue that on there. It'll never go anywhere ever again. It would be there, but this will make a very strong shelf, or for making shelving. This would work for that or but that's why I bought that dado stack, and it's awesome. Hey, if you're interested in there'll be a link in You can go check that out for yourself. You know what time it is, power tip time. The power tip is if make sure you get a fits a dado stack, or you can actually and make your own. Just raise it up through there. I didn't think about that. I knew I had to have one but I didn't think about Now I've used my zero clearance insert to make a dado stack I'll order some more. You can usually find those on Etsy and other places like that, Even Amazon sells them for certain saws. So the power tip is to that will accommodate a dado stack. Hey, thank you for watching, click that box right there, it's going to take you to the next video. Clicking the box gets you the Also don't forget to before you leave, bell icon so that you get We're going to be using to learn more and more as woodworkers as we grow together.