A little while ago, behind them But I really felt like when it comes to the conditions an order that can not only contain people but control you psychologically. So I wanted to look at five different this idea of control through architecture, architectural strategies to control you by creating a prison in your mind. A portion of this video is sponsored the first movie is a cult classic. It's called Cube. It's actually a Canadian movie where a group of strangers This cube has doors and it's this giant, intricate And some of them can kill you So the story is about these strangers And it's an example of a story where the So first thing this reminded me of which is a cultural center in Paris There's so many visual similarities. Like this panelized grid system each of the panels, And in the cube This is actually used to climb the cube The panels So the most notable the facade on Which is, if you watch my video on Dune, or lattice work from Islamic architecture And the panels themselves are made up that were inspired and they open and close The system is very delicate, which is kind of interesting connection also moves and functions like a clock. You kind of have to move within a certain amount of time Is it a reach? Maybe. in the cube we have these Plexiglas natural light, but it had another So the budget for which is equivalent So they could only built one room and they changed the colors to make The cube was built in 1997 1987, could have been inspired, maybe These handles are actually die rods. Which are those things that you can thread and turn them into screws. They also reminded me of gizmos by Olson Kundig which are these mechanical devices that For example, here which works on a counterbalance principle. Essentially, steel and glass window These gizmos, they give movement the users to become active participants What's also interesting about the cube that's designed to be accessed I actually can't think of safety and accessibility reasons, the other really cool thing There's lots of built examples of kinetic But there's not a lot of examples where the spaces themselves are moving. there was this proposal in big surprise Dubai. And essentially, and it can give different views around the central core. each of the floors and it would cantilever off the core. So there's major challenges with the mechanical system, because it means you need the plumbing to connect and reconnect to the shaft So kind of an engineering nightmare. So it was canceled. there is actually a build project, and it has these rotating rooms that can create different program but definitely nothing like the three I designed the outer shell. This guy is so pathetic. You built this thing? Not this part. The exterior. I don't know anything about the numbers or anything else in here. So I think the big question is, is it really possible and not have a clue Yeah, it's actually plausible. because our profession has become very, In fact, the more specialized And actually, Who hired you? I didn't even ask. I didn't even leave my office. Architecture, unfortunately, Really smart, but totally jaded people because they go into the profession they're going to change the world So yes, sad but true. that's my biggest fear. This is the room we started in. major, major spoilers. But the whole system is basically designed to kind of suggest But in the end, in the same spot, and they could have gotten out So philosophically, because if you put a human in a room, they are going to do something with it sense of it. Just like how these characters was this evil villain and there was this and I think it speaks to this human and try to figure it out because sometimes inaction Overall I think the cube presents because it has this underlying But we can't comprehend the purpose. And there's this tension and it reminds me of a quote from Umberto but the whole world is an enigma, by our own mad attempt to interpreted He was always critical about our systems and he was saying that we often treat or the things that we know and he saw flaws in that. so I think the most interesting part about Because if they had just stood there they could have gotten out. now let's move on to the platform. It's similar and the narrative device. So the whole movie starts in this elegant where everything is meticulously checked And for a full minute, there's no dialog. It just immerses you into the colors which you'll find out is the setting for a very messed up story. This is the official start, I think So he wakes up in this concrete box And that's his cellmate. The entire movie takes place inside in hundreds of floors and every day. The kitchen upstairs and they place it on this platform, and it stops on each floor And it keeps going down the problem is the upper levels And as you go further down, which leads to some pretty messed up what's more interesting the inmates are randomly assigned And depending on which level dynamic between the inmates. So like I said, the entire movie in these rectangular concrete rooms, But if you think about it, Why a rectangle, So there's actually a lot of thinking first concrete, It means it's And it also has this And why a rectangle and not a square? The story revolves around this dynamic The two inmates in a cell. So the rectangle creates If it was a square, you wouldn't actually have this the space can have a huge impact on There's a great story from Ed Catmull, they had this rectangular table And whenever they'd have meetings, and with any overflow And the directors and the producers would naturally sit So the heart of the conversations And the further you were, One of the days So they had a meeting in a smaller room And what they found because everyone was facing each other and it made it easy so our spaces have a huge impact and I think the production design team really put a lot of thought You guys might have noticed we usually model and render And for this video we use the Creator 16 Typically, we use multiple apps our assets, and all of this 4090, plenty of RAM and a 16 core Intel The Creator 16 A.I. Studio also has an NPU that can do also related software. optimizing performance in the background and this is a super cool feature, So you can generate AI images locally even if you're off the grid. sometimes when we approach a video. Our imagination can run a little bit wild a performance of a workstation, and so far it was able to deliver If you want to learn more, So anyways, because of these budgetary constraints, of these concrete boxes and then they just And I think it really shows you or a set of rules, a lot of money technically, But once you build this logic you can kind of make people in this case it's a concrete box, with a tower of hundreds of levels you could live or die. I think Inception is actually This picture represents a rainy city, also represents a rainy city. But from the logic of inception, it's a dream inside a dream where gravity I think this hole is actually obviously has a functional purpose. But the psychological impact Something that's endless and repetitive It can become incredibly overwhelming This is Peter Eisenman memorial He put 2700 concrete stele And each stele is unique in height to reflect the unique identities But at the same time, it really mirrors And when you walk around the grid, and it feels claustrophobic and and I think it really forces you to Here... The scale of this also makes And this actually has another effect They lose their humanity really fast. It's interesting to see how quickly up evil in this environment because, yes, But I think when you're in this vast, where your actions or your character and there's no world and there's no time Something interesting happens. this is a really interesting dialog. the sky ties him up and he's getting ready to eat his flesh for sustenance. And this guy is basically saying, for my death. And then he responds saying, The people who are responsible are the people above And then he's saying, I want you to know not the people above, not the people And I just thought this was because a sense of responsibility is the one thing that keeps us civilized. But responsibility is a social construct. And in an environment of scarcity and isolation, where you feel like nothing This sense of responsibility, Now let's move on to Minority Report. for the minority of you who have watched is that in the year 2054, with a way to predict crime and they call this pre-crime And it's a very intricate system. And Tom Cruise is the chief of the pre-crime unit who's a hardcore believer in the system But the story really unravels This concept of predicting crime And for the nerds of you out there, cyberpunk anime called Psycho Pass. So this here is the prison, really similar to the panopticon layout, The inmates are kept in these So the prison is essentially a super you can see how the tubes And each tube has multiple bodies. So I can imagine the basement of this being kind of a refrigerant kind of like an automated parking lot, But it kind of really depends on Look at them. Look at how peaceful they all seem. But on the inside. Busy, busy, busy. I love this guy. This is one of the most friggin interesting ideas from sci fi of separating the body from the mind or that's the term And this could really lead in how you could store a body I don't know if you guys but they use this idea And it kind of led You can even break the bounds of time Like, and you just exist in your mind to cure you, just like in Vanilla Sky which also led to some really messed up We talked about this there's two approaches to imprisonment, Rehab statistically has a much lower but most countries like places like Norway. So in a world where keeping prisoners by dividing the mind and the body It could actually give them the help I don't know if it's that unrealistic to create a downloadable And obviously we can't copy our souls, we're not that far away from this future and super unethical, but if you compare it of some of these prisons, condition of the prisons are unfortunately So I think it's impossible to talk about NARKINA 5. The Imperial Security Detention Facility. My favorite prison. Well, that was weird. It's from the show Andor. And it's located on a planet And this is what you see as you approach So it's a natural deterrent to escape. And actually, you see this like these windows, they're not necessary, but it gives the prisoners this facility is In my other video, behind this facility and kind of the most ideal version because the control mechanism integrated into the architecture of thousands of inmates but today And I think it's actually which is this extreme efficiency and the extreme optimization of resources. Good morning, inmates. Your day will start All of your essential utensils Don't forget to hydrate yourself To avoid sudden and painful death. Don't leave your cell before the tungstoid steel floor panels are deactivated. You have 3 minutes to head over and your clothes will be sterilized please transfer to the work area And remember. Based on your productivity, at the end of your shift. on this facility. Cells interlock like bunk beds to prevent dust buildup lights and other features so they can't be used as weapons. there's no doors or barriers in the cells. Since any unauthorized egress results Time for bed and get ready Look at the counter tap to see the number Some of these spaces might remind you of the extreme efficiency these modular hospital patient rooms which feature a very similar design seamlessly embedded together. They're prefabricated modules quickly technology except in NARKINA 5. It's the inmates, but are assembling this endless twisted manufacturing cycle, using the inmates as free and over again. THX 1138 is by George Lucas, very first movies And it's based on an underground society people through mandatory drug use, People are basically just numbers.Thx1138 is the name of the main character and you might have guessed The problem starts when she stops taking This is a factory and you might be asking, And the answer to that, We are cheaper than droids and easier to replace. Apparently replicating the human body is actually a lot harder although they seem to be making To be clear, this is not a prison. In fact, just by looking at this, They have these endless open white spaces. There's no walls, no visible boundaries. And they go to work and they can leave around the way they want. So why am I even bringing this up? a lot of you mentioned Foucault In my last video but more as a metaphor for modern society that controls people not by force, And I think the society in this movie of this idea. here's a scene where he's confessing. This is an image of Christ. so they are religious, but it's very obvious This this thing is not actually capable But THX keeps talking to him. And I think in a way, it's really been forced into compliance, And at the pretense If you feel that you are not properly sedated, call 348 844 immediatly, So when people feel they actually self-report Foucault talks about this exact idea, under the guise of efficiency and safety And I think it's especially interesting with COVID especially, some countries have gladly handed over He wrote Discipline and Punish in 1975, before 911 and before COVID, where obviously we've seen a pretty big increase And a lot of times So I do wonder what he would think now. This is the Marine County Civic Center And actually, And it was completed And the fact that they use this building so before Frank Lloyd Wright, separation between the government spaces public access because it was all about and the hierarchies but Frank Lloyd Wright was like, No, no. A civic center So he blended government functions and included things like a library So it's really a symbol that's about governments, It also followed his principle that exists in perfect harmony So he added curves And he added these big open skylights. So it is really ironic was used as a visual backdrop I was actually wondering the whiteness of modernism and minimalism. in this movie. You see so many good examples or spaces that don't have enough It's a place that's devoid of any identity or emotional attachment, or architectural details, of connection Also kind of helps you So these non places, of your sense of self In a way, they force us to confront the that got kind of dark, but these were the prisons by So what do you guys think? Let me know in the comments that I should cover. A portion of this video is sponsored A portion of this video is sponsored on this facility. Cells interlock like bunk beds to prevent dust buildup lights and other features so they can't be used as weapons. there's no doors or barriers in the cells, egress results an immediate death. there's no doors or barriers in the cells. Since any unauthorized egress results Time for bed and get ready Look at the counter table to see On this facility, cells interlock like bunk beds to prevent dust Lights and other features so they can be used as weapons. There are no doors since any unauthorized And cheer up. Look at the countertop in your stay. though of the extreme efficiency these modular hospital patient rooms which feature a very similar design seamlessly embedded together. They're prefabricated so they can and efficiently with all of the necessary integrated into the architecture. So say that all the necessity with all of the necessary technology Except in North Korea, five, it's the modules for more prisons, creating this endless twisted manufacturing cycle, over and over and over again. It's the we see again, It's over and over. The last part, only the one exception of the five. And basically it's try to be careful with volume. Dum dum do you can get excited but don't get excited that volume like and then it's from something like this. This separation. Yeah, After. and cheer up. Look at the countertop to see This is a shower room. So they all shower together in one room and it's more like a spray And then they all go to this one room, grab their clothes, All of this in under 5 minutes. And then there's that they follow for putting together And the cells So this is where all the inmates in a work he's saying this because the floors of the halls It's steel that can fry you alive in the soles. water, nightlight, toilet flips down, plate shaver and food. You can see how the corners are curved collect dust, which is actually you can also see that so that the inmates can't take them out and everything You can see the lines and how the pieces all come together and you can combine them together. It's a very compact design. And Technically, it's like a bunk on top of each other. And this reverse L-shape, but compared to a traditional prison walls or bars, So why would they do this? and here is the really cynical part So the mass produced these modules that look exactly the same. I'm not sure if this is actually But technically, they can use the inmates which is essentially free labor, and over and over again. but this extreme efficiency is also when you look at the panopticon layout, it's designed so that the prisoners And this increases the sense of isolation. But here, by trying to compact as many and also by making them work together which are all things and this is actually how they