In 2015, the Libyan civil war, the Syrian civil war and the war against ISIS in Iraq unleashed a massive humanitarian crisis that forced millions of people to flee for their lives to Europe. This created the 2015 European migrant crisis, a crisis that had huge During the crisis, a large number of refugees And in 2015 alone, Sweden took in as many as 163,000 asylum seekers, which per 1000 inhabitants. To compare: that same year, the United States took which is around 0.2 refugees per 1000 inhabitants. This surge of refugees among some Swedish politicians like the Economist, who all predicted huge economic problems for Sweden. The predictions from the government itself, those predictions said that Sweden would be economically hurt by admitting so many refugees because they said Sweden Predictions were that You could say. This is Peo Hansen, at Linkoping University, of "A Modern Migration Theory." In its research, Professor at what actually happened with Sweden's economy during the migration crisis, the politicians and establishment experts around the world predicted. They were all wrong. What actually happened was very strongly and economic growth in Sweden was almost Chinese at this time. In the end of 2015, it grew by about, I think, four 4.5% or something, due to the spent straight out into the economy. Tthe best and the brightest in the macroeconomic field, they were all wrong. I wanted to understand why the politicians and experts predictions were so wrong. So I traveled from Stockholm to Norrkoping to meet And from our conversation, I realized that the useless predictions about the economic effects of the migration crisis Instead, these errors expose deep flaws in the economic Models that fundamentally migration our economy and society actually works. This is downtown Stockholm, and in that building over there And then here we have the Swedish National Financial Management Authority. And in here is the National Institute of Economic Research. So what do these government Well, it's that they employ Sweden's best and brightest macro economists. But another thing they have together with the European Commission, predicted in 2015 that Sweden's economy would suffer badly because of "increased costs of migration". But what does the cost When politicians talk about From where do they get their numbers? Well, they come from research and the tradition within economics called "the fiscal impact of migration". What they simply do, is to take the cohort of migrants and then compare that to those who are born in and then they measure how much do the migrants pay in taxes and how much do they get And from there they get a That's how simple it is. And here's another way we These economists use a method say, Sweden, based on how which, naturally, follows Then these economists draw a line where the average is and then the average is a burden or a cost for the people who are above the average. And since migrants are who earn below average, that they are a cost. And that's, of course, a weird science, because you can do that You could take women, make less than men in terms of income. They also then pay less taxes. But can we from that, conclude that women are a burden on men? Yes, we can if we apply this this literature In fact, anyone below the average would be a cost for the people and thus will be a cost and a burden to the CEO of a casino. A kindergarten teacher A cleaner will be a cost to Simply because these people You have an average. That means, mathematically speaking, that some people will be above and some people will be just average. In this research, you that the message is "Get over average" But that's impossible. I am a professor of political science, so during which people did, we want more? Professors in political science or nurses? Well, it's obvious, but who is paid more? Well, professors are, but they They're not more valuable. And there's a large European study done that could show very clearly that the most important workers during COVID were disproportionately low skilled, low paid migrants. And that's really the to understand how This strange science of considering half the population as costs contributed to about the fiscal impact But there is also another reason and that is because we, as we often do, confused symbol with reality. We humans, we are masters of symbols. Thanks laws and money, we've technologies and economies. But as the British philosopher "The peculiar and perhaps fatal fallacy of civilization [is that] all too easily as we symbolize it Money is a way of measuring wealth, but it's not wealth in itself. A chest of gold coins is of no use whatsoever alone on a raft." In his book, Professor Hansen to distinguish between one of the reasons we the effects of migration. And more specifically, we constantly fail to distinguish between real resources, which are reality and financial resources, The distinction between real resources and financial from modern monetary theory We are told that financial resources, and that we need to be very careful Otherwise, we can have insolvency But modern monetary theory No, where we have real constraints meaning people, workers, knowledge, natural resources. We know that we have those constraints, but we care less about them than the false constraints we say we have with fiscal resources. I think it was John Maynard Keynes what is what is technically possible to do is always financially possible to do so. Meaning that if you have the real resources, then If you don't have them, you can. And it doesn't matter how that, it won't do anything. COVID showed that we needed more people in the health care sector, much more people. And so governments "We've decided to lend up to "The interest rate for "This is, essentially, free money." get off this panel. But that was not enough. We didn't have the real resources So we had the money, but we didn't have the real resources. And that is so crucial to understand. And migrants, then, And any country who that country is a winner. That's just how crass reality is. Now we have it backwards and think that, we who have a net inflow of migrants, that we are the losers. Here is Sweden, where we 51% of the bus and tram drivers are foreign born. 60% of the cleaners are foreign born and 30% of the doctors Could anyone argue that without these people? It's obvious that the mainstream view that it's costly for countries is misguided. But does this mean that migration is always possible and always desirable? I'm very often attacked from people saying: Peo, with with your reasoning, Sweden could take all and all the refugees in the world. And I say, no, that's not what I'm saying. That's not possible. But it's not due to financial constraints. It's due to real constraints. How many people a country can accommodate. And that is related to housing, to what kind of health care sector we have and schools and So that is the limit to how many And in Professor Hansen's work, he shows that even during when Sweden admitted a very Sweden didn't even come close But Professor Hansen also raises another, often overlooked when we talk about migration, namely, what effect does migration have for the countries that the It used to be that the EU was the EU and the rest of the world Now the EU is 27 countries. Many of those countries are emigration countries and many of them have suffered what researchers would call "demographic collapses". So the Baltic countries, foremost Lithuania, Latvia, but also Romania, Bulgaria, they have some of the highest Since Romania joined the EU in 2007, approximately 3.6 million people have left the country, 16% of the whole population. It has gone so far that the former Eugen Teodorovici, proposed be allowed to work in other EU countries for more than five years. A few years ago I had a Romanian PhD student in a course that there was this fire in some years ago, and he the hospitals could not take care of those with burn wounds. So they had to be flown out And he said, they were flown to Germany to get treatment and were probably That's what the situation is like. And in many places in Romania you hardly have any That's part of the internal EU logic. Brain drain is an EU issue. It's not EU versus the rest of the world. I left the conversation with the public discourse about migration is weirdly one sided and unintelligent. But why is that? How come politicians try to outcompete each other in trying to restrict migrants while ignoring the real benefits, but also the real drawbacks of migration? There are many reasons for that. I would point to just the fact that migration has become this toxic issue and can really say anything Employment rates for the foreign born, they have increased dramatically. So the foreign born in Sweden, now they have a higher employment rate than the general employment rate in the EU as a whole. That is very significant At the same time, we have dramatically over the recent past for the group foreign born. And the interesting thing is that noone is taking credit for And I think that is says a lot about where we are with this issue. "That's why I want to call this video" "Politically Incorrect Views on Migration." I'm Andres Acevedo and this is The Market Exit. I will let Professor Hansen about his book: "A Modern But before that, there's I love making video essays like this. And this may sound presumptuous, more of is ambitious, original content But for me to keep making videos like this, I am going So that's why I ask you to share If you agree with it or if you Click the like button and And if you really like what I do and if you have a few dollars to spare, on patreon.com/themarketexit And to my existing patrons, thank you All right. Now let's hear from Professor Hanson. This is "A Modern Migration Theory" It also came out in Swedish and there it's called "Migrationsmyten" The book is is basically my attempt to change the agenda and to disprove the assumption that migration and show that that is not the case. It's not a fiscal issue, it's Rather, it's an addition I just wanted to make And then once we get that we can talk about migration