(audience applause) - What a crowd! What a crowd. I tell ya, I come over here, what I went through this afternoon. (audience laughter) Like that continuity, huh? (laughing) Nah, really, this afternoon, I to join a health club, ya know? Yeah, the sign said, &quot;Look money back.&quot; I gave a girl my check. She said, &quot;Keep it. We're (audience laughing) I tell ya, I try to be a right guy. I never get a fair shake, ya know? I was gonna take a little vacation. I spoke to some guy who He told me I could spend No days. Just six nights in Puerto Rico. I said to him, what I do with myself days? He said, &quot;You can do whatever you want, &quot;Just keep outta Puerto Rico.&quot; (audience laughing) I tell you, I don't get no No respect at all. One time I was drowning. I was yelling, help! Help! A lifeguard came over, &quot;Keep it down!&quot; (audience laughing) I don't know, I tell ya, I remember things, I was I got no respect. One time my ole' man We went to see the freaks. The owner looked at me, &quot;Get the kid out, he's (audience laughing) The trouble with me is I'm too easy-going. I gotta coupla kids. I'm nice to them. They got smart answers too. The last time, I have a kid to Coney Island, ya know? I asked him, You wanna He told me to save my (audience laughing) I tell ya, I tried to figure things out. I can't! I been to every psychiatrist in New York. My whole life is psychiatrists. When I was a kid, eight years to a child psychiatrist. I went for a year and a half. The kid didn't help me at all. (audience laughing) Sometimes I say to And lately I'm so mixed up, anymore. I know just last week I went to see my dentist he with Preparation H. (audience laughing) My dentist, that's another It cost me 5,000 dollars to Now he tells me, you need braces. (audience laughing) I tell ya, I'm at the end of the line. I don't know who to believe anymore. My doctor, David Ruben. He wrote a best-selling book. Everything you always He left out the most important thing. Where to get it? (audience laughing) (Lively band music) (audience applause) - Great crowd. Great crowd. - Great crowd - One place you can relax You got communication going for - Especially tonight. - Tonight. - Great communication. You are too much. - Silly mood tonight. - I was backstage breaking up with the - What the hey? Remember all those old burlesque sketches? That's one of the funniest lines time. You do a lot of funny things, the dentist tells you you need braces. That's a funny, funny line. - I thought of it right out there. - Really? - Good word, but that's a good line. - I know, it's a funny line. - Tell me about the book. Now that you're a big author. - Oh, this is a very interesting book. I've been four years of Year and a half of editing. - [Johnny] Can I read I didn't see that. - Go right ahead, sure. - It says, &quot;This book is ridiculous. &quot;This man is nuts. &quot;He's an idiot. He should &quot;He deserves no respect. &quot;He ruined my life. &quot;I cooked very good. &quot;He has no business to open a restaurant. &quot;My children are very healthy &quot;In fact, as you read this, &quot;to have him put away. &quot;Mrs. Dangerfield.&quot; (audience laughing) I didn't see that - Yeah, it's a very interesting book. I told you, four years of and year and a half, and a and I want to thank my dear too, Dr. Vinne Boom-Batz. (audience laughing) He assisted me-- - Vinne Boom-Batz? - He assisted me, in helping book, really. In fact, chapters four and to heartburn. - I didn't know that. (Johnny laughing) - Johnny, I'll tell you this a friend, a neighbor, a relative, anybody, and if ya hold it around, you'll see a Swedish some beef fondue. (audience laughing) - Vinnie Boom-Batz - Vinnie Boom-Batz. He did the editing of the whole thing. - Well, I, whatta you get for that? Well it's a, pretty good. You expect that this in the, suppose, - It's in bookstores - just in time for the Christmas Market? - Yeah it's says it's spiced with humor. - Wow. (audience laughing) Respectable recipes spiced with humor. - It's a hundred very economical, these things, ya know. It's very easy to do it. It's a very interesting book, you noticed. - Yes it has cartoons in there. Let's see what you remember (audience laughing) - Thank you! Thank you! - Here's one of the easy ones. How do you make potato mounds? - You go to a chef in a (Johnny laughing) (Audience laughing) - We're gonna do this first. And now, a sneak preview (Jazz drums and piano music) It's a special day for you, we found out. We didn't know it. You didn't tell us, but This is your birthday. (audience applause) - Thank you very much (band playing Happy Birthday) - Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday to you. Happy Birthday dear Rodney. Happy Birthday to you. (audience applause and cheers) - Okay. Give him the cake. - No, no, don't start. - Give him the cake! - There ya are. - Can I take this back? I got an anniversary at (audience laughing) Thank you very much, that's - Forget the Happy Birthday, Roger. (audience laughing) It was just, we had a - The way this show is going (audience laughing) - Oh no! No. - before the night is hey, Boom! You know, one of those... - Remember those? Where he says, &quot;Give me the cake&quot; - Give me the cake.. - Give me the cake. - Don't give me the cake. - There's no place to go if we start that. If we start throwing this (audience laughing) - Thank you very much. That's what I mean by That's beautiful. - [Other Guest] I don't (laughing) - You want me to set this over here? - Now I'm gonna be nervous I'ma get the cake in my face - No, I wouldn't do that. I would never do that - [Other Guest] Not with - No, no. (audience laughing) That would smart. That could be - Uh oh - That could be up your (audience laughing) I would never hit anybody pre-arranged on a sketch, a cake, or do something So, I'll set it over here. (audience laughing) Now, I wonder what's gonna happen tonight? Uh oh, here comes the cake now. (audience laughing) Is it impolite to ask you how old you are? Do you care? Does it make any difference? - No, I tell the truth. I tell the truth. I'm 29, I don't never... No, I'm telling the truth, That's the truth. - I didn't believe that. - No, I'm 51. That's true. (audience applause) - You do not look it. I'm 51, I mean, I don't - I meant that. You really don't look it. - No, I can lose ten pounds, what the heck, I mean, tell the truth. What's the difference? Know what I mean? That's what I feel. Be truthful. That's the only way you'll (laughing) - You're on a communication - It's been bothering me have communication, and this here, you could relax. It's the only way you can together, and then get - [Johnny] Well, we're - And that's why, that's important. - It really is. (audience laughing) - In fact, the other night Patrons over at my Bistro. He was engaged to this girl, lack of communication, plus and she didn't like dogs. I think men love animals more They really do. I mean look at all the guys who lives, you know? (audience laughing) - I never thought of that. - I mean, a lot of men and You take an average guy When they're all finished, his mind? How do I get outta here? (audience laughing) You gotta have communication. - That's communication, huh? - And guys, guys, you can't I knew a guy who was going girl. Left her for his wife and kids. (audience laughing) - [Johnny] Didn't know that - How else can you relax - You gotta have communication. - You mention 42nd Street? I go there occasionally. I find out sexy movies from just relax, forget everything. I saw one, last week, too, different than a sexy movie. sex was dubbed in. (audience laughing) - Unusual experience. - Very, very unusual experience, yes. - Well that's communication. You gotta communicate. - Yes, it is definitely. As a matter of fact, I knew it cause when I walked in, a real naked blonde showed me to my I told the guy, put on (audience laughing) I'm gonna look for some Year's Eve, I'm going over to Hawaii. I mentioned that at the I'm going to Hawaii, right New Year's Eve, you know - [Johnny] No. - Belly dancer. We have Little Athens. - Little Athens? - Little Athens. Belly dancer. Don't get fresh with Little Big Dominick, you know what that means? (audience laughing) - Only about this short, right? - Yeah, but ya right away. But I'm going to Hawaii, and stay there at the Sheraton Waikiki. That's what I say, Why Kiki? (audience laughing) No, as matter of fact you are - I didn't know that. - I spoke to the Italian Hawaii. Yeah, he's the Italian He's in Hawaii, Guido Salmaggi, - [Johnny] Guido Salmaggi? - Guido Salmaggi. And he, he sung at my club (audience laughing) He's the Italian Vice Consulate. Can I, he's watching. Can I just say hello, one second? Hey Guido! Aloha! (audience laughing) He'll be there with his cousin Tullio. - Tullio and Guido. Tullio will be there. And his nephew Romeo. - You're really going to Hawaii? You're gonna work there? - No, no I'm not going - No, no! You're not going to work there. - I'm going to vacation there. - [Johnny] Vacation there. - I don't work all the time. - Of course you can't. - No sense in working all the time. (audience laughing) No sense in working all the time. I want a vacation, you know. A lot of people go for all I'm very simple. - Are ya? - Just gimme a beach, a pair a woman in them.