It's 1979, John Deacon is hanging and he's got a crazy idea. &quot;What if I wrote a funk song for Queen?&quot; No, John, I don't wanna play it. Then I'm all for it. Us? But then John hit them with it. That's quite a cool riff, actually. And the number one hit was born. But if John Deacon hadn't &quot;Another One Bites the Dust&quot; and I can prove it. I mean, even just without this first key, the song wouldn't have had that irresistible head boppin' vibe. So how did Deacy make it impossible not to dance to this song? Through the brilliant use of a trick I call the &quot;rhythm contrast method.&quot; And it's not the usual bass rhythm advice of follow the kick drum. Here's how it works. Between the bass and the drums, one rhythm needs to be simple And in &quot;Another One Bites the Dust,&quot; which instrument is playing Right, the complex bass by the simple on-the-beat drums. Since this song was written starting with the complex bass rhythm, that means Deacon pushed to keep his rhythm simple Without the rhythm contrast method, a more amateur drummer might that fought with the bass line. This method is an easy way that automatically lock in with the drums, which, if you ever try to come up with a cool bass lines on But if we reverse and start with a simple drum beat, you could basically stick on top of this and it'll sound cool. Although John Deacon came up with a particularly kick-ass version, most of my noodles don't get almost 2 billion streams on Spotify. And you can use the rhythm contrast method the other way around too, like in &quot;50 Ways To Leave where Steve Gadd played and complex drum groove, which is best supported by used in the bass part. I'll repeat myself at Because &quot;Another One Bites the Dust&quot; was written from the bass riff up, it also breaks a quote, unquote rule that bass players are taught to follow, which is to stay out of the singer's way. Meaning you just play almost invisible stuff and save all your noodles and fills for in between the lyrics. But Freddie actually arranged his vocal to follow the bass rhythm, and there's a lot of overlap of when John and Freddie are making sound and when they're silent. Freddie was following the but in a different way. Joining in on the existing while Roger laid it down, &quot;I'd always wanted to do that was disco, which was Which apparently Roger as he and Brian felt the band should stay in the more rock and roll And &quot;We Are the Champions.&quot; It's possible Queen wouldn't even have released &quot;Bites the Dust&quot; if they weren't encouraged another up-and-coming indie artist you should really check out. Hey you guys, you gotta put that song out. And I wasn't particularly so I said, &quot;No, you're kidding, So yeah, Deacy nailed to make Michael Jackson say, and Freddie nailed what is one of the most singable anthems ever. And there's a big difference anthemic number one mega hit, and a hot mess like this, which would be lucky to hit the top 1,000. The difference? Making the Otherwise, good luck singing along to &quot;Another One Bites the Dust,&quot; or, Weirdo Josh - &quot;Another One Bites The Dust&quot; So how did John Deacon to not sound like baby's first bass line or pseudo jazz note explosion? Well, this is where I could say some predictable bass teacher crap about the anthropological significance of the minor pentatonic scale, but really, there's a much a simpler way to understand how anthemic It just takes the two check boxes of the &quot;Anthemic Riff Checklist.&quot; Checkbox one - are the notes so even an unskilled singer Close together meaning on the fretboard or the piano keyboard, so this is easy to sing, But this is hard to sing And checkbox two, just not like, maybe three to five. So you don't need Sherlock musical memory just to This is just three notes That's great. This one is too many notes Most people can't sing this If you check those two boxes, you can make a rift singable There's &quot;Smoke on the Water,&quot; just four notes from the blue scale. &quot;Blister in the Sun,&quot; three And some claps, &quot;Seven Nation Army,&quot; five notes from the minor scale. Or &quot;We Will Rock You,&quot; just But John Deacon was really good at the anthemic riff checklist. A man of a few words, but just Hello, it's John Deacon here. As usual, I don't know what He wrote another iconic bass making a possibly boring bass moment into an instantly recognizable but you instantly know the song. No, it's not Vanilla Ice, we're talking about &quot;Under Pressure.&quot; But despite Mr. Ice's famous protest, sometimes songs sound And some say that's the case with &quot;Another One Bites the Dust.&quot; Did this song's success ride on John Deacon blatantly from &quot;Good Times&quot; by Chic? According to an interview that I had to trace down I found on eBay just for these &quot;Well, that Queen record came about because that bass player spent some time hanging out with us at our studio. But that's okay, what isn't okay is that that we had ripped them off. Can you believe that? 'Good Times' came out but it was inconceivable that black musicians could It was just these dumb disco guys ripping off this rock and roll song. And you should subscribe to BassBuzz for more foolproof bass lessons.&quot; Wow, straight from Bernard Edwards. So let the record be set straight. &quot;Good Times&quot; came out and John Deacon was in while they were writing &quot;Good Times.&quot; But we know &quot;Bites The Dust&quot; of &quot;Good Times,&quot; 'cause Here's &quot;Good Times,&quot; and here's &quot;Bites of the Dust.&quot; So they get different in the second half, but they both start with those And you can hear even more Chic influence in that rhythmic guitar part, which was actually played by So good. Which sounds a lot like right? So Deacy just totally &quot;Bites the Dust&quot; came out in 1980, &quot;Good Times&quot; came out in 1979. Guess what came out in That's right, &quot;Hollywood Swinging&quot; by Kool &amp; the Gang, featuring those exact same on that low E string. My cousin is one of the people who started Kool &amp; the Gang. And when they wrote the song, &quot;Hollywood Swinging-&quot; I was like, &quot;Damn!&quot; Oh! This was a fascinating interview. I'll link the full right below the Like button, hint, hint. So Queen ripped off Chic, sorta, but Chic ripped off Kool &amp; the Gang, and then who knows where Kool Ultimately, everything is a remix. It's cool to give credit where And John Deacon did not give a nod or a songwriting credit to Chic, and they didn't give one So an eye for an eye makes the And I'd argue that Deacon at least, for Queen's purposes, 'cause the original has which is a lot for the to like, remember and be It's still an iconic, amazing bass line, I'm not throwing any shade. But Deacon made it simpler, better checking off the so any idiot can sing Sing it! Ah! And not to mention, there that do not sound like &quot;Good Times,&quot; and you can learn the full song with the free sheet music But even with the right notes and rhythm, the song wouldn't have hit the same way without Deacy's distinctive John Deacon was mostly known for playing a Fender Precision Bass, one of the most popular The Precision, or P Bass, is known for its snarly, growly tone. Growl, growl, growly, growly. But for &quot;Another One Bites the Dust,&quot; Deacy chose the Music Man StingRay, which was also developed by Leo Fender after he left the company. Known for its nasal, punchy tone, the StingRay lends a more to the bass on this track. And it's another place you Bernard Edwards recorded &quot;Good Times&quot; on the exact same type of bass. I've been curious how might have sounded if John so let's imagine together. Whoa. It's like, so much looser sounding. Still cool. Huh. If you're one of the who don't own a StingRay Bass, you can get a functionally similar tone with three simple tricks. Number one, pluck with your fingers and pluck near the bridge, which leads to a more Plus, it's the only good place to rest your hand on the Music Man. And number two, you wanna if you have more than one, and then boost the mids so you even further emphasize that tight, honky sound. And three, use some nice, dead strings. I'm not sure if Deacon used flat wounds or just old, dead round but if you have fresh round wounds, you're gonna wanna roll the tone knob or the treble knob down to match the muffly sound of this track. It's just so like, punchy, focused, and there's not a lot of top end. And speaking of matching the sound, if you've ever tried to you know that it's not in tune. The bass, guitar vocals, higher sounding than you would This happened at some point in the analog recording to tape process. Whether it's an accidental or an intentional choice to make the song a little we don't really know. Here's how it might've It's slower than you expect, right? And a little lower sounding. With the perfect disco Deacy's bass riff is just The difference between and fitting with the lyrics, A subtle detail that most that's not even really Yeah, it's not the but even with the right notes, the right rhythm, the right tone, I can still make this bass just by missing this one thing. Ugh. So bad. Without those perfectly the bass riff makes a hot getting in the way of But Deacon's punchy staccato approach gives the song a feeling so the bullets can rip Beginner bassists miss this, 'cause most music instruction is focused around the beginnings of notes. Like, I might tell you on beats one, two, and three, and then you go ba, ba, ba, but you're missing that tight finish that basically go bow, bow, bow, uh! Huh! And it's the tight clarity of those notes, along with the tempo of that makes this a perfect The lyrics are a little ironic, but nailing your note length will help keep the chest You could literally save a life with the right note And if you're hankering iconic riffs, just click on the Click, click, click Click the video My name is John Richard Deacon, and I was born on August 19th, 1951. One turd, two tits, John Deacon