The iron armor of all techniques With it, it is easy to resist blows We are invulnerable, of his own breathing. It's an old technique The human body has 108 pressure points, The other 72, paralysis. Learning this technique until you have perfect control There are eight methods for this. When we have them all, we are able from each point, Then the body is fully protected However, there still remains the barrier The Eagle's Thrush. This technique was developed It consists of 108 figures from 50 mass attacks. This fighting style is focused on muscles All attack power lies The cost must be moderate The eagle claw tactic is It is at the moment when this one that the eagle will strike. His patience will be rewarded. The Eagle's Claw is the deadliest - We've got him. Get it! - My name is Chao Penn, and I've never seen anyone I would like to know how - My name is Sin. - So what's going on here, gentlemen? - Reckless question. - General Chao, I'm just a traveler, - I observed your combat technique. And in our country, I would like to ask you a favor. I would like you to show me I am naturally very curious. General, hold on. - Big class. - It's a very good sword. A little heavy to carry sometimes. General Chao, It's late and I have to go. - Do not go ! I am burdened by my to recruit people like you. - Mr. Loo? Could this be the Mr. Loo who fought - And yes, today Loo is This is why I ask you if you With men like you we You are the type of man - Thank you general. To Ming! - Please move forward. Thank you. I'm flattered. Court ceremonial. - I present to you a Woo Long - Excellent ! That's excellent! I am now too old. what it takes to save our king And no. - M Loo, same sect as you. And I believe that both of them, - What do you mean by that, young man? is Sun's style Very classic Kung fu, sir. I studied it very young. It was my father who taught me it. - Your Kung fu technique is nothing - There is indeed a difference I practice a method, I like this boy. Would you tell me which of these Who is the best in combat? I would prefer, Sir, not to answer. - Lord Loo demands it. The best - The most perfect of techniques The style of Kung fu I use and his kick can't compete It is difficult I thought about the question, would be to combine the 2. Also, the 2 sets, their possible shortcomings The 2 styles complement each other and their union - Well done ! Would you agree to do us now As you would like ! - Forgive me, young man. - M Loo! - Guards, arrest this man. I arrest you for murder - Are you crazy, colonel? - Silence. They assassinate him Who else but you could - Colonel! I didn't do anything, I swear. - Really ? Take him away! - Come on, everyone! I must bring this murderer to the Lord. This man is the murderer of Master Loo. - Grab hold of him. - Lord. I find myself accused but I am innocent. He hides. I beg you, Help me find Woo Long - Let us bring them, This will be their just punishment. - Yes Master. Lord, have mercy on us. - It's an order. - Lord, have mercy. - It is certain that General Chao Mr. Loo, our royal minister It must be apprehended as soon as possible Must pay also Don't waste a moment. - Lord, do you have any idea Noble Lord, Chao Yong Fu was able to join Yong may already be Probably Chao Yong Fu is located Or maybe among the rebels, - I wonder. There are people everywhere his name is displayed everywhere. The authorities of each city as well as his accomplice Woo Long. In my opinion, he only has one left Beyond the mountains before. That man A renegade, a traitor, a rebel. See this. It's a gift from our King. He did it to me because But if I don't find one Chao, Lord can I help you - You are the greatest expert Only you can claim to beat I want you to bring me And I make you a promise that you will be - I do not wish for any reward Lord. - I have always been treated with He's the one who raised me. And I consider myself I would like to find the culprit, then put it back - My child, I admire your courage. Listen to me. Mr. Loo's murderer must die. - Master, only if necessary. - Yes I'm coming. So. - Where are you going ? Wait, - Tchin! Tchin! - No need to kill him for that. - General Chao, kneeling The general saved me. General, please excuse me - But let's stand up! It's nothing. I would like you to tell me, I'm looking for it. I am following in his footsteps. - I think I know He is known in the region as It must have been a long time And I don't know where to find it generally. General Chao, - Hide in my house! - Listen, the assassin, it's Woo Long. Advance. I certainly won't kill you. - He's a real doctor, my word! Do these needles - And sir, - Say doctor, in this case, - Okay, I'll be really happy When we travel, - Yes, I have traveled for a long time. - I'll be with you in a moment. - Thank you Doctor. THANKS. - Ready ? - Sorry, needle size I swore not to kill. -And you fight like a tiger. But would you fight - Speak or you are dead. - Long has been to Ku Long. - I don't want to kill you. for you to be judged. - Chao. - Who are you ? Who are you ? - I have come to execute you. But you let him get away - Who is he ? - You saved him It's one of those that you and yours What is your name ? - As I told you, I was sent My name is Shen Yu. - It's a very famous name here. was a small-time killer. - It seems that not content with being a killer I knew you were a deceiver, - Which of us is clumsy? You settled with Woo Long and there are no witnesses You think I'm going - This man is my prisoner, Let me take him to court, - Shen Yu. Leave him to me. - An advice, Otherwise, I will see myself - That's what we're going to see. - 2 weeks. And that without even - Lord Shen Yu likes - I heard here and there It is said that the general - Let's see, what an idea! Shen Yu I don't - The rumors are false, Go to Kung Long tomorrow. - Yes, Lord. - Master. - No, I have excuses. - You are not part of our sect. - Master, Help me, Master. Why am I condemned? - The type ! - I already helped you save yourself - And what about that? - Looks like General Chao - Good morning. - A little water. You would be nice, - Come in, sir. - Here, sir. - You are sick ? - A little headache. It's nothing. Are you all alone for such a big house? There are 2 of us. She went shopping. - Thanks for the glass. - Is your sister at home? - She's not here yet? - Does she Listen, I have to marry your sister today that she misses the ceremony, - She cannot marry - Very funny. I will come back later. - Sulai! - I order you to accompany me We will prepare - I will never marry you. By what right do you dare to tell me that? that I will obey you. Your sister refuses to marry me. - You mad bro ! I dare you to touch her, - Please don't get involved in this. Good advice, stay away from here. - Listen to me, Lee. - Let's go. If I were you, - Out ! - So, let's fight! - Have you decided to go home? - Bad kid. One day or another you will have to fight In the meantime, I'll take your sister - Stop. - Who are you ? - I have never met anyone - Go for it ! - Let's get out of here ! - We thank you May I know your name, sir? - It was nothing. It was natural. My name is Chao Yong Fu. - What Kung fu! - You are good at Kung fu too. - Yes, it's grandfather. - My brother always says stupid things. - I'm leaving now. Why don't you stay I'm sure this man Sulai, Chao is unwell, - So, Mr. Chao, until you get better, Excuse me, please. - So it's okay? - So, you tell me about your grandfather - You won't tell anyone, okay? His name is Sikirkou. - He is one of the masters who taught and who established a school - Yes, it's him Chao. - He has been murdered in a strange way. It's still a mystery and his killer has not been found. - Say, listen. You will give me lessons - All right. - Master. Sit down. - Who hired you to assassinate him? - I can not say anything. I have to keep it a secret. If I speak, - There is no point in you talking about me Look at them, then you will say Just looking at my eyes. If it's him it's about. You have too much ambition. Now you're going to stay here, In the meantime, I will do what is necessary, - It was fantastic ! - Suyai says that you are a serious person, that's why she would like - Fingers of steel? The finger of steel who is able to beat If you want, I can teach you. All right ? - Let's go. Ready for a lesson? - It's time ! Of these exercises with Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to My partner and I thank you THANKS. I have to tell you that this little monkey has And all these years he hasn't stopped But it has a secret, grass wine. This wine is a guardian of youth. He heals all ills, Whoever drinks it keeps Do you want some, sir? - This blue was made by my wife - By your wife? - You're right, he's a man - In any case, You are very resilient could have killed me. Do you see? to do it must be I'm surprised that you are - You speak, so as not to show - You do not believe in it So the result? - I don't have any more pain. - Looks like a good remedy. - That's enough. And you there? - The evil has returned. - It's you ? Why waste your time? - And you, tell me, - I am sent by the Master. I have orders from the minister to accompany you. Look, I don't need anyone. - I have orders to stay. - Alright. So, try to obey well. - I hope you get a good salary. - Help ! He's a murderer. It's Chao Yong Fu - Suyai, a man asks after Chao. - Tell him to come in. This is my sister, Suyai. - You're welcome. -Is Chao here? Wait for him with us. - Here is the tea. - Are you a friend of his? - Oh no, sir. and Chao came to our aid. Chao is very nice and good Kung fu. He says a thug murdered He also says he's looking for it. -Woo Long. He says he is very dangerous Ah, there you are! - You were lucky. Let's go talk somewhere else. - Come on, let's stop this little game. They are my guests. - I would like you to tell me, I have to bring him back. but you should know that, - You come with me. - Hurry up ! But don't try to run away. You understood well ? - Do not move ! Stay where you are. - Who are you then? I saw posters about his capture. Stop me. - Give him that. You forget that. Take care of your sister. - Let's rest here. You are thirsty ? What is wrong with you ? - I want to have his head, I'll take him back to the. And dead, there will be no more question of it. - Whether dead or alive, What does it do ? - Maybe he's a murderer. The court will judge this man, that's all. - Are you a coward? - No. A minute, leave it. All he wants is my head - And I would like to save her, - You can believe whatever you want. I'd be dead. So now, towards him, - I will kill you. - You got played. I leave you Unless you win. - Bye. - Sorry, - Just give me 3 days. If I am still alive, I assure you that I am sincere. I do not lie to you. - Okay, I believe you. I'll give you 3 days. - I swear to it. The finger of steel is intended All the strength of the body is concentrated Its goal is to unbalance the opponent of his breathing Strictly speaking, but it will help to discover it is possible to attack it. - Go ahead ! - Is that you Master? - Wake me up early tomorrow morning. - Besides. - What are you doing here ? - You didn't follow my orders. - Sorry, Master, but a friend brought me My mother is dying you would not have allowed Also, I went there - Always excuses. - Master. Master, why did you come here? - For your salvation. - Tomorrow, the minister - Please, help me! Save me ! - Both are enthusiasts But he became very strong because today He has alloyed iron armor Silly ! You mad bro ! Where did you think you were going, stupid? He will find you anywhere. - You don't realize, Shen is He acquired another technique and thus he and nothing will break it. It will take him to defeat you. - A few seconds ? I already feel - I know what it is - Where ? This is where you should touch it - So you didn't know that the vulnerable place - Finally you're here. - You are crazy. - You're wrong. - Here you are at last ! - I came just in time - Who are you ? I'm their leader. You, go away. Stay here. - The gang of 3, - Would you let me - No, we'll get away with it. - I'll take both. - Here then ! - Come on, shall we start? - I said the first, - Chao Yongfu. - I know it. I was going to join you - Who are you to pick a fight with us? - You are 2 bandits That's why I got involved in this. - THANKS. I think we should get out of here. - Yes, there is still someone - Who is that ? - That one ? Where is he ? This Wu Long. - You, go away. - He must be at home. - Probably not very far. - Let's go. - Here it is ! - Look at this, it's a gift - It's over for me, You can handcuff me. - Wait here. - Chao Yongfu. I'm leading you to the gallows, - You did everything you could. Thanks to you, to try to prove I failed. - If you have anything - I don't care if I live or not, I only have one desire that the instigator - And you know who it could be, - I do not know anything at all. - Go ahead, leave. - As far away as possible. - If you stay here, So, leave quickly Chao. - If I find out the reason for this murder. - You will die long before you know. If I leave, - It's my business. - I can't leave you. - I tell you to get out of here. I don't have time to chat. So leave or else - Now I owe you twice my life. I will not forget. - What are you doing here ? - I came to meet you, His Lordship would like - It is here ? He's waiting for you. - Your Honor ! I heard - Is it correct ? I wished to be there - We didn't lie to you. - And why ? - Who is it ? - I see. You discovered me. So now, - Who are they ? - These warriors are part They are very interested in your style. Go ahead and show us I am sure that for you, Come on, let me look at you. - Now for the two of us. - Let's go! - I told you to go away. - Steel finger against iron armor. Who will be the winner ? - Where did you learn that? - This concerns me and me alone. I won't be able to break I have to look for the weak point first. - There are 108 points to find. It will be a difficult task. - Yes, there are maybe 108, And it's reduced to 5 with you. Let's list: throat, forearms, wool. - Yes. - I don't have a single weak point. - Yes, Minister. - Chao! - Who are you ? - You thought you were the only one - And you, who are you ? - Do you remember He was my grandfather. We waited far too long.