I'd like to tell you about the strangest secret in the world. Not long ago, Albert Schweitzer, the great doctor and Nobel Prize winner was being interviewed in London. And a reporter asked him, &quot;Doctor, what's wrong with men today?&quot; The guy doctor was silent a moment, And then he said, &quot;Men And it's about this that We live today in a golden age. This is an era that man has and worked toward for thousands of years. But since it's here, we pretty We in America are particularly fortunate to live in the richest on the face of the Earth: a land of abundant But do you know what happens? Let's take 100 men who Do you have any idea what by the time they're 65? These 100 men who all believe they're going to be successful. If you asked any one of these men if you wanted to be a success, he'd tell you that he did. And you'd notice that he That there was a certain and erectness to his carriage, and life seemed like a pretty But by the time they're Four will be financially independent, five will still be working, 54 will be broke. Now, think a moment. Out of the 100, only five make the grade. Why do so many fail? What has happened to these when they were 25? What's become of the dreams, and why is there such a large disparity between what these men intended to do and what they actually accomplished? When we say about 5% achieve success, we have to define success. And here's the definition. Success is the progressive If a man is working toward and knows where he's going, If he's not doing that, he's a failure. Success is the progressive Rollo May, the distinguished psychiatrist, wrote a wonderful book called And in this book, he says, &quot;The opposite of courage in It is conformity.&quot; And there you have the trouble today. It's conformity. People acting like everyone without knowing where they're going. Now, think of it. In America right now, there are over 14 million and about 13 million of They're dependent on someone Now, we learned to read We learned to make a living Usually, by that time, we're we're supporting a family. And yet, by the time we're 65, we haven't learned how to in the richest land that Why we conform, and the trouble is that we're acting like the the 95% who don't succeed. Now, why do these people conform? Well, they don't know really. These people believe that their lives are by things that happen to them, by exterior forces. They're outer-directed people. A survey was made one time working men, and these men &quot;Why do you work? Why do you get up in the morning?&quot; 19 out of 20 had no idea. If you ask them, they'll say everyone goes And that's the reason they do it. Because everyone else is doing it. Now, let's get back to Who succeeds? The only man who succeeds is the man who is progressively He's the man who says and then begins to work toward that goal. I'll tell you who the A success is the school teacher who's teaching school because The success is the woman because she wanted to and is doing a good job of it. The success is the man who because that's what he wanted to do. The success is the successful salesman who wants to become a top-notch salesman and grow and build with his organization. A success is anyone who is doing deliberately because that's what he But only one out of 20 does that. That's why today there unless we make it for ourselves. Instead of competing, all Now, for 20 years, I looked for the key which would determine what Was there a key I wanted to know which would make the future a promise that we could foretell to a large extent. Was there a key that would guarantee a person becoming successful if he only knew about it Well, there is such a Have you ever wondered why and honestly, without ever And others don't seem to work hard, and yet seem to get everything? They have the magic touch. You've heard them say that about someone. &quot;Everything he touches turns to gold.&quot; And have you ever noticed that tends to continue to become successful? And on the other hand, have you noticed how tends to continue to fail? It's because of goals. Some of us have them, some don't. People with goals succeed because they know where they're going. Now, think of a ship leaving a harbor, and think of it with the complete voyage mapped out and planned. The captain and crew know and how long it will take. It has a definite goal. 9,999 times out of 10,000, it will get to where Now, let's take another ship, just like the first, only let's not put a crew on Let's give it no aiming point, We just start the engines and let go. I think you'll agree with me that if it gets out of the harbor at all, it will either sink or wind a derelict. It can't go any place because it has no It's the same with a human being. Take the salesman, for example. There is no other person with the future of a good salesman. Selling is the world's if we're good at it and if Every company needs top-notch salesmen, and they reward those men. The sky is the limit for them. But how many can you find? Someone once said the human race is fixed. Not to prevent the strong from winning, but to prevent the weak from losing. the American economy today in time of war. The entire economy is slowed down to protect its weakest link. Just as the convoy had to go at the speed that would permit its slowest That's why it's so easy It takes no particular brains and support a family today. So we have a plateau if that's what a person's looking for. But we do have to decide how high above this Now let's get back to the the story that I wanted to tell you today. Why do men with goals succeed in life, and men without them fail? Well, let me tell you something, which if you really understand it, will alter your life immediately. If you understand completely what I'm going to tell your life will never be the same again. You will suddenly find that good luck just seems to be attracted to you. The things you want just And from now on, you won't the knowing lump of anxiety that perhaps you've experienced before. Doubt, fear, well, they'll Here's the key to success We become what we think about. Now, Let me say that again. We become what we think about. Throughout all history, the philosophers and prophets have on many different things. It is only on this one point that they are in complete Listen to what Marcus Aurelius, the great Roman emperor, said. He said, &quot;A man's life is Disraeli said this: &quot;Everything comes if I have brought myself by long that a human being with a settled purpose must accomplish it. And that nothing can resist a will that will stake even Ralph Waldo Emerson said this: &quot;A man is what he thinks William James said, &quot;The greatest is that human beings can alter their lives by altering their attitudes of mind.&quot; And he also said, &quot;We need as if the thing in question were real, and it will become infallibly real by growing into such a that it will become real. It will become so knit that our interest in it will be those which characterize belief.&quot; He also said this: &quot;If you you will almost certainly attain it. If you wish to be rich, you will be rich. If you wish to be learned, If you wish to be good, you will be good. Only you must then and wish them exclusively, and not wish at the same time 100 other incompatible In the Bible, you will read in Mark 9:23: &quot;If thou canst believe, all things are possible Dr. Norman Vincent Peale said this: &quot;This is one of the greatest Fervently do I wish I had It dawned upon me much later in life, and I've found it to if not my greatest discovery, outside of my relationship to God. and the great law, is that if you think in negative terms, you will get negative results. If you think in positive terms, you will achieve positive results. That is the simple fact of an astonishing law of In three words, believe and succeed. William Shakespeare put it this way: &quot;Our doubts are traitors, And make us lose the By fearing to attempt.&quot; George Bernard Shaw said, &quot;People are always blaming for what they are. I don't believe in circumstances. The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want. And if they can't find them, make them.&quot; Well, it's pretty apparent, isn't it? And every person who discovered this for a while believed to work it out. We become what we think about. Now, it stands to reason about a concrete and worthwhile goal is going to reach it, because that's what he's thinking about. And we become what we think about. Conversely, the man who has no goal, who doesn't know where he's going, and whose thoughts must of confusion and anxiety becomes what he thinks about. His life becomes one of frustration, fear, anxiety, and worry. And if he thinks about nothing, he becomes nothing. Now, how does it work? Why do we become what we think about? Well, I'll tell you how it Now, to do this, I want to tell you about a situation that parallels the human mind. Suppose a farmer has some land Now, the land gives the farmer a choice. He may plant in that The land doesn't care. It's up to the farmer Now, remember, we're comparing Because the mind like what you plant in it. It will return what you plant, but it doesn't care what you plant. Now, let's say that the in his hand. One is a seed of corn. The other is nightshade, a deadly poison. He digs two little holes in the earth and he plants both seeds: one corn, the other nightshade. He covers up the holes, waters, and takes care of the Invariably, the land will As it's written in the Bible: &quot;As you sow, so shall you reap.&quot; Remember, the land doesn't care. It will return poison in as it will corn. So up come the two plants: Now, the human mind is far more fertile, far more incredible and but it works the same way. It doesn't care what we A concrete worthwhile goal or fear, anxiety and so on. But what we plant, it will return to us. You see, the human mind is the last great unexplored It contains riches beyond It will return anything we want to plant. Now, you might say, &quot;What if that's true? Why don't people use their minds more?&quot; Well, I think they've figured Our mind comes as standard It's free. And things that are we place little value on. Things that we pay money for, we value. The paradox is that exactly Everything that's really our mind, our soul, our our ambitions, our intelligence, our love of family and All these priceless possessions are free, but the things that cost us and can be replaced at any time. A good man can be completely wiped out and make another fortune. He can do that several times. Even if our home burns But the things we got for nothing, we can never replace. The human mind isn't used merely because we take it for granted. Familiarity breeds contempt. It can do any kind of job we assign to it, but generally speaking, we use it for little jobs Universities have proved on about 10% of our abilities. Decide now. What is it you want. Plant your goal in your mind. It's the most important in your entire life. Do you want to be an outstanding salesman, a better worker at your particular job? Do you want to go places in All you've got to do is Care for it, work and it will become a reality. It not only will, there is no way that it cannot. You see, that as a law. like the laws of Sir Isaac Newton, the laws of gravity. If you get on top of a you'll always go down. You'll never go up. And it's the same with all They always work; they're inflexible. Think about your goal in Picture yourself in your mind's eye as having already achieved this goal. See yourself doing the when you've reached your goal. Ours has been called the the age of ulcers and nervous breakdowns. At a time when medical research has raised us to a new plateau far too many of us worry trying to cope with things in without learning a few great laws that will take care of everything for us. These things we bring on ourselves through our habitual way of thinking. Every one of us is the sum He is where he is, because that is exactly whether he'll admit that or not. Each of us must live off in the future, because what you think today and tomorrow, next month and next year, will mold your life and You're guided by your mind. I remember one time I was and I saw one of those roaring along the road with what looked like A tremendous, incredible machine. And there was a little with the wheel in his hands, guiding it. And as I drove along, I was struck by the to the human mind. Just suppose you're of such a vast source of energy. Are you going to sit and let it run itself into a ditch? Or are you going to keep both and control and direct this power to a specific worthwhile purpose? It's up to you. You're in the driver's seat. You see, the very law is a two-edged sword. We must control our thinking. The same rule that can lead a man to a life of success, wealth, happiness, and all the things he's ever dreamed of for himself and his family, that very same law can It's all in how he uses This is the strangest secret in the world. Now, why do I say it's strange, and why do I call it a secret? Actually, it isn't a secret at all. It was first promulgated by And it appears again and But very few people have That's why it's strange, and why for some equally strange reason, it virtually remains a secret. I believe that you could go out and walk down the main street of your town and ask one man after another what the secret of success is, and you probably wouldn't who could tell you. Now, this information is if we really understand it and apply it. It's valuable to us not but the lives of those around us: our family, employees, Life should be an exciting adventure. It should never be a bore. A man should live fully, be alive. He should be glad to get He should be doing a job he likes to do because he does it well. One time I heard Grove the editor-in-chief of And as he concluded his speech, he said something that He said something like this. My years in the newspaper business have convinced me of several things. Among them, that people And that we came from someplace So we should make our time The architect of the universe didn't build a stairway leading nowhere. And the greatest teacher of all, the carpenter from the Plains of Galilee gave us the secret time and time again: &quot;As you believe, so shall it be done unto you.&quot;