In the Winter of 1847, George Donner, the American settlers engaged in intraspecies metabolic integrity. However, his failure to fulfill caloric obligations This video, is about "DoubleSpeak" - what defines as "Doublespeak is language designed appear pleasant, the unattractive appear attractive, while pretending not to." "What line of work are you in?" "Waste management consultant." Let's say for example the person whose treacherous cannibalized his climbing partner, it would communicates this information, but doesn't Lutz says there are at least four kinds of "Protein reallocation" instead of "cannibalism" "Mobster" would probably fall under the language that is designed to make the simple to people, things, or situations. &quot;I don't know if that tape is working, you &quot;Forbearance is the watchword; that triumvirate The concept of Doublespeak stems from George is a key concept. To know and not to know, to be conscious of constructed lies... Doublespeak though, is rarely about deliberately For example, In January 2015, Sid Miller became the 5th fattest high schoolers in the country So, that same year, along with announcing to the School Nutrition policy in Texas which deep fryers and allowing the sale of "low-calorie By low-calorie beverages he means ...sodas. I guess a soda is technically lower calorie cola is what you're expecting if you ask &quot;Why do you have so many bowling balls?&quot; "Ah.. uh... I'm not gonna lie to you, Marge. So long!" So, doublespeak becomes useful obviously when but are unable to straight up lie, yet communicating doesn't have the listener perceive the information For example, when being asked about your current think it would sound better to say "I'm offered an early retirement opportunity as resource redundancy elimination initiative" company was firing people and I got fired." Edward Sapir, in his essay "The Status of is a guide to social reality ...Human beings ..., but are very much at the mercy of the of expression for their society." A lot of times, we don't want information Euphemisms, like "passed away" instead are words or phrases that are usually used William Lutz says this is the 1st type of "You see, I don't like euphemisms. I don't like language that reflects fear and &quot;Americans can't really handle the truth, and it gets worse with every generation.&quot; "Sometime during my lifetime, toilet paper previously owned transportation and constipation "Poor people used to live in slums, now housing in the inner cities. ... They don't have a negative cash flow Calling an economic recession a "period but certain forms of doublespeak are just In Chapter 2 under the section "The Doublespeak visual example of doublespeak. "Now here's another chart... their tax Ours is the solid line. As you can see, our tax cut keeps on going This red space between the two lines is the if our bill passes.&quot; Lutz points out that there are no numbers to evaluate it with. When you make the dollar scale from $0 to it appears much less impressive. This kind of graphical doublespeak also appears for the heart protecting cholesterol lowering &quot;So here's the ad in which you see that Lipitor disease by 36%. So this was a really important study, the over a 100 billion dollars in revenue. So I'm gonna show you the actual data from And it's right here. But here are the actual data from the study. And somewhere in here is a 36% risk reduction the Lipitor. So if you look at survival, you see they're benefit. You see that tiny sliver of a difference between That is a 36% reduction. This is the wonder drug effect. This is the effect that propelled Lipitor How can that be a 36% reduction in risk? When you calculate it and you look at the This is where you do some statistical hijinx. You take that 1.1% difference between the placebo and 100... If you're not following me, it doesn't matter Right? So you take the 1.1, divide it by 3, what You get 36. 36 percent. And that's why they say there is a 36 percent And so, if you have truth in advertising, Lipitor! reduces heart attack by 1%. &quot;Now I'm also taking Lipitor.&quot; By the way, if you're health conscious and to know that there are 56 different names Don't like the way just "sugar" sounds? How about "organic evaporated cane juice," This kind of "rebranding" of words to the place. "Frank Luntz doesn't do issues, he does He figures out what words will best sell an In Frank Luntz's book "Words that work," word or phrase to evoke the right response He says "It's not what you say, it's &quot;Focus on those words that cause people to even change their attitudes.&quot; For example, the "gambling" industry became its perception despite nothing about the industry As Luntz says in the book: "Gambling" looks like what an old man or feels like the services provided by some room. "Gaming" is what families do together New York, or one of the other "family-friendly "Gambling" is a vice. "Gaming" is a choice. He begins his work with something similar He talks to members of the target market and they like and dislike. &quot;You're gonna use these to register whether or disbelieve. The dials go from 0 to 100.&quot; &quot;Climbing, Climbing. Changing fuels.&quot; One of his most significant political works against the estate tax by removing that particular it with the more emotional, more personal In his book originally published in January majority of Americans today support eliminating than 70 percent would abolish the "death &quot;It's the same tax, but nobody really knows But they certainly know what it means to be "I'd like someone to get rid of the death I don't wanna get taxed just because I died. You know..." &quot;Who's hungry?&quot; One food rebranding effort was so successful started a campaign to save a previously ignored In 1977 fish wholesaler Lee Lantz took "patagonian bass (I believe)" because he knew no one So, when people come to associate certain come up with new words that evoke a more pleasant For example, a hospital may think that you catastrophic blunder killed your wife and So, it's better to describe the anaesthesiologist mother a fatal dose of nitrous oxide as a At least, St. Mary's Hospital in Minneapolis "Three weeks ago in Los Angeles, the surgeons In a series of incidents that the pathologist it included slitting the patient's throat misadventure." William Lutz says the second kind of doublespeak trade or profession. It is useful and necessary to know jargon it is doublespeak depends on where you use For example describing your computer keyboard Catastrophically Buckling Compression Column &quot;Huh?&quot; is unnecessary, but is an appropriate descriptor After giving President Reagan a routine physical documented decrement in auditory acuity and lenses were evaluated and found to be stable." &quot;Wha?&quot; That sounds a lot more impressive than saying changed since his last exam. &quot;Where is the organoleptically detectable And finally, William Lutz says the 3rd type Basically, such doublespeak is a matter of with words. There are plenty of examples of politicians on something they don't want to comment administrator Jesse Moore's performance After the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, the shuttle program had improved with each &quot;I think our performance in terms of the liftoff we knew more about the envelope we were operating staying in that. And so I would say the performance has not I think we have been able to characterize launch experience as opposed to it improving &quot;Juh?&quot; Pretty much everyone will at some point will our day to day lives. People use doublespeak because ...from a young "So tell me, Did you eat the chocolate cake?" "No Mommy." Just because someone is using doublespeak don't quite understand what's being said to ask "what exactly is this person saying?" For example you might be looking into investing or "collateralized debt obligation" - it what that means. &quot;So banks started filling these bonds with By the way, these risky mortgages are called sheet.&quot; &quot;So mortgage bonds are dogsheet. CDO's are dogsheet wrapped in catsheet?&quot; &quot;Yea that's right.&quot; And something I've been wondering lately It seems there's hundreds of products promising is being detoxed? Cadmium or Mercury? Reactive Oxygen Species? Benzene? Wouldn't it be nice to know which toxins could make sure to drink this when I'm taking use of BHT containing cosmetics. Maybe this "detox tea" product could help that, but I wouldn't know because all I "are time proven to help your body with "What the hell are you talking about?"