How do you explain Or better, how do you explain when others are able to achieve things For example: Why is Apple so innovative? Year after year, after year, they're more innovative And yet, they're just a computer company. They're just like everyone else. They have the same access the same agencies, the same consultants, the same media. Then why is it that they seem Why is it that Martin Luther King He wasn't the only man and he certainly wasn't Why him? And why is it that the Wright brothers were able to figure out controlled, when there were certainly other teams who were better qualified, and they didn't achieve and the Wright brothers beat them to it. There's something else at play here. About three and a half years ago, And this discovery profoundly changed and it even profoundly changed the way As it turns out, there's a pattern. As it turns out, all the great inspiring whether it's Apple or Martin Luther King they all think, act and communicate And it's the complete opposite All I did was codify it, and it's probably I call it the golden circle. Why? How? What? This little idea explains why some organizations and some leaders Let me define the terms really quickly. Every single person, every single knows what they do, 100 percent. Some know how they do it, whether you call it or your proprietary process or your USP. But very, very few people or organizations And by &quot;why&quot; I don't mean That's a result. It's always a result. By &quot;why,&quot; I mean: What's your purpose? What's your cause? What's your belief? Why does your organization exist? Why do you get out of bed in the morning? And why should anyone care? As a result, the way we think, we act, the way we communicate We go from the clearest thing But the inspired leaders regardless of their size, all think, act and communicate Let me give you an example. I use Apple because they're easy If Apple were like everyone else, a marketing message from them &quot;We make great computers. They're beautifully designed, Want to buy one?&quot; &quot;Meh.&quot; That's how most of us communicate. That's how most marketing that's how we communicate interpersonally. We say what we do, we say how we're different or better and we expect some sort of a behavior, a purchase, a vote, something like that. Here's our new law firm: We have the best lawyers we always perform for our clients. Here's our new car: It gets great gas mileage, Buy our car. But it's uninspiring. Here's how Apple actually communicates. &quot;Everything we do, We believe in thinking differently. The way we challenge the status quo is by making our products simple to use and user friendly. We just happen to make great computers. Want to buy one?&quot; Totally different, right? You're ready to buy a computer from me. I just reversed What it proves to us is people buy why you do it. This explains why is perfectly comfortable buying But we're also perfectly comfortable buying an MP3 player from Apple, or a DVR from Apple. As I said before, Nothing distinguishes them structurally Their competitors are equally qualified In fact, they tried. A few years ago, Gateway They're eminently qualified They've been making Nobody bought one. Dell came out with MP3 players and PDAs, and they make great quality products, and they can make perfectly and nobody bought one. In fact, talking about it now, buying an MP3 player from Dell. Why would you buy one But we do it every day. People don't buy what you do; The goal is not to do business The goal is to do business with people Here's the best part: None of what I'm telling you It's all grounded Not psychology, biology. If you look at a cross-section from the top down, into three major components that correlate perfectly Our newest brain, our Homo sapien brain, our neocortex, corresponds with the &quot;what&quot; level. The neocortex is responsible for all of our rational The middle two sections make up and our limbic brains are responsible like trust and loyalty. It's also responsible all decision-making, and it has no capacity for language. In other words, when we communicate yes, people can understand vast like features and benefits It just doesn't drive behavior. When we can communicate we're talking directly that controls behavior, and then we allow people to rationalize it This is where gut decisions come from. Sometimes you can give somebody and they say, &quot;I know but it just doesn't feel right.&quot; Why would we use that verb, Because the part of the brain doesn't control language. The best we can muster up is, &quot;I don't know. Or sometimes you say you're leading I hate to break it to you, controlling your behavior. It's all happening here the part of the brain that controls But if you don't know and people respond then how will you ever get people to vote for you, or, more importantly, be loyal and want to be a part The goal is not just to sell the goal is to sell to people The goal is not just it's to hire people I always say that, you know, if you hire people just because they can but if they believe what you believe, they'll work for you with blood Nowhere else is there a better example Most people don't know And back in the early 20th century, the pursuit of powered man flight Everybody was trying it. And Samuel Pierpont Langley to be the recipe for success. Even now, you ask people, &quot;Why did your product and people always give of the same three things: under-capitalized, the wrong people, It's always the same three things, Samuel Pierpont Langley was given 50,000 dollars to figure out this flying machine. Money was no problem. He held a seat at Harvard and worked at the Smithsonian he knew all the big minds of the day. He hired the best minds money could find and the market conditions were fantastic. The New York Times and everyone was rooting for Langley. Then how come we've never heard A few hundred miles away in Dayton, Ohio, Orville and Wilbur Wright, they had none of what we consider They had no money; they paid for their dream Not a single person had a college education, not even Orville or Wilbur. And The New York Times The difference was, Orville and Wilbur were driven by a cause, They believed that if they could it'll change the course of the world. Samuel Pierpont Langley was different. He wanted to be rich, He was in pursuit of the result. He was in pursuit of the riches. And lo and behold, look what happened. The people who believed worked with them with blood The others just worked for the paycheck. They tell stories of how every time they would have to take because that's how many times And, eventually, on December 17th, 1903, the Wright brothers took flight, and no one was there We found out about it a few days later. And further proof that Langley the day the Wright brothers took flight, he quit. He could have said, &quot;That's an amazing discovery, guys, and I will improve He wasn't first, he didn't get rich, People don't buy what you do; If you talk about what you believe, you will attract those But why is it important to attract Something called the law if you don't know the law, The first 2.5% of our population The next 13.5% of our population The next 34% are your early majority, your late majority and your laggards. The only reason these people is because you can't buy (Laughter) We all sit at various places but what the law of diffusion is that if you want mass-market success you cannot have it between 15 and 18 percent and then the system tips. I love asking businesses, They love to tell you, Well, you can trip We all have about 10% who just &quot;get it.&quot; That's how we describe them, right? That's like that gut feeling, The problem is: How do you before doing business So it's this here, this little gap as Jeffrey Moore calls it, because, you see, the early majority until someone else has tried it first. And these guys, the innovators they're comfortable They're more comfortable that are driven by what and not just what product is available. These are the people who stood to buy an iPhone when they first came out, when you could have bought one These are the people on flat-screen TVs even though the technology And, by the way, they didn't do it they did it for themselves. It's because they wanted to be first. People don't buy what you do; and what you do simply proves In fact, people will do the things The reason that person bought the iPhone stood in line for six hours, was because of what they believed and how they wanted everybody to see them: they were first. People don't buy what you do; So let me give you a famous example, a famous failure and a famous success First, the famous failure. It's a commercial example. As we said before, the recipe for success is money and the right people You should have success then. Look at TiVo. From the time TiVo came out to this current day, they are the single highest-quality hands down, there is no dispute. They were extremely well-funded. Market conditions were fantastic. I mean, we use TiVo as verb. I TiVo stuff on my piece-of-junk (Laughter) But TiVo's a commercial failure. They've never made money. And when they went IPO, their stock was at about 30 or 40 dollars and then plummeted, In fact, I don't think except for a couple of little spikes. Because you see, when TiVo they told us all what they had. They said, &quot;We have a product skips commercials, rewinds live TV without you even asking.&quot; And the cynical majority said, &quot;We don't believe you. We don't need it. We don't like it. You're scaring us.&quot; What if they had said, &quot;If you're the kind of person over every aspect of your life, boy, do we have a product for you. It pauses live TV, skips commercials, memorizes your viewing habits, etc., etc.&quot; People don't buy what you do; and what you do simply serves Now let me give you a successful example In the summer of 1963, 250,000 people showed up to hear Dr. King speak. They sent out no invitations, and there was no website How do you do that? Well, Dr. King who was a great orator. He wasn't the only man in a pre-civil rights America. In fact, some of his ideas were bad. But he had a gift. He didn't go around telling people He went around &quot;I believe, I believe, I believe,&quot; And people who believed what he believed took his cause, and they made it And some of those people to get the word out to even more people. And lo and behold, on the right day at the right time How many of them showed up for him? Zero. They showed up for themselves. It's what they believed about America that got them to travel to stand in the sun in Washington It's what they believed, 25% of the audience was white. Dr. King believed that there are those that are made by a higher authority And not until all the laws are consistent with the laws will we live in a just world. It just so happened was the perfect thing to help him We followed, not for him, By the way, he gave not the &quot;I have a plan&quot; speech. (Laughter) Listen to politicians now, They're not inspiring anybody. Because there are leaders Leaders hold a position but those who lead inspire us. Whether they're individuals we follow those who lead, but because we want to. We follow those who lead, not for them, And it's those who start with &quot;why&quot; that have the ability or find others who inspire them. Thank you very much. (Applause)