(Between Two Ferns Theme) - I had President Hillary and now I have this guy. It's like. But it's like I Love the 90s. We might as well have Lorena Get an Us Weekly or Teen People Hi, my name is Zach Galifianakis. Welcome to another edition My guest today is Jerry (mumbling) Seinfeld. - Really thrilled to be here. - Seems like everyone has gone on to do, you know, great, wonderful stuff. Elaine is on Veep and Kramer did that great stand-up bit. It's been a real launching pad for whites. (deep breath) Okay. - Actor, writer, comedian, producer; which of Larry David's skills You have Comedians in James Corden has Carpool Karaoke. What's next in lazy car-based, non-comedy? (rustling) You know that movie you made, Bee Movie? Don't you think it should've been called D- Movie? (chuckling) - It's called Bee Movie But it was the number one so I had that feeling, which you had in the first Hangover. And then, do you think if they and didn't make the other two, it would be considered a comedy classic? Do you think that you a comedy classic by the - Let me ask you a question! Do you have relatives that need emergency surgery all the time?! Well I do! My Aunt Deborah needed a That's why I did Hangover 2! My Uncle Dicky, his That's why I did Hangover 3, it's to save my uncle's yacht club! And to buy myself a stretch hummer. - That's a great, great story. It really has a funny ending. I can't wait to tell that at dinner later. Do you get professional haircuts? - There's a guy, he's, he's fantastic. His name's Sam. Oh, he's here! Oh, this is exciting, a - Oh! - Come on out! (click) (click) - Hello, Jerry. - Hey, Wayne, good to see you! - Hey, good to see you! - No, you're supposed to say &quot;Hello, Newman.&quot; - Yeah, no, that's when - He's Newman. - [Jerry] No. - Why would you have him come down, and, and use him that way, exploitative way of just having him do his catchphrase from the show. - I thought that's what you wanted. I was disappointed, but I didn't know. - No, I didn't even know you were coming! (rustling) - Thank you. Oh, can you just look Which one? Can you just look right into the camera and go &quot;Don't forget to vote funny!&quot; Right here, this is the camera. - I see the camera, but - I know, but the more clicks I get-- - I don't care about- - My brand shoots up. &quot;Hey, it's Jerry Seinfeld! Don't forget to vote funny!&quot; And then maybe &quot;Catch ya on the downlow,&quot; something, whatever, like what millenials would say. - I don't wanna do that. - &quot;Hey brah&quot;, &quot;don't forget to click funny, bro!&quot; - No. - So just do it. I don't give a shit. - Oh, fuck it, I'll do it. Hey, don't forget to click funny, bro! (murmuring) - Really? Okay. She's here. Okay, we have a better (humming) I thought I was-- - Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Cardi B. (click) - [Cardi B] Hey, everybody! - Hey, Cardi! - [Cardi B] Hi! So great to see you! This is Jerry. - [Cardi B] Oh, hi, how are you? - Nice to meet you. - Wow, this is-- - Jerry, can you take the crate? Uh, there's a milk crate that they put. Cardi, you sit there. - Yeah, but-- - Move down! Hi! Cardi B, Zachy G, Jerry J. - What's the J? - Jew. Cardi, your album is I mean, are you able to look at all this and just take it in? Is your life nuts?! - Ahhhhhhh, exhausting and-- - You're about to have a baby, right?! - [Cardi B] Yeah. So we got you a gift, 'cause that's what you - Oh, wow thank you. - See, I got a gift. - Yeah, no, I didn't get anything. - Ooh, Rap Fan! - Yes! I don't know if you're but the color is gender neutral, so. - I'm special. - You are special. But the most important thing - Boy, this is a really the one I did. I'm not even between the ferns anymore! I don't even fit the - You're to the right. When &quot;To the Right of a Fern&quot;-- - [Jerry] Yeah. - You'll be the first guest. But right now it's Cardi B and I Trying to get to know each other. Cardi, thank you so much for Cardi B, everybody! Thanks for coming. - [Cardi B] Thank you so much. - It was so nice meeting you. - [Whispers] Don't hug - Yes, man. It's so nice meeting you. - Okay, buh-bye! - That was the opposite of - Good Good Good-- - Yup, thank you. Uh, thank you to Jerry Seinfeld for being our guest. And, um, thank you Cardi B. Great show. (click) (&quot;Seinfeld Theme Song&quot;) Ya ever have a talk show, and, on that talk show, the, the guest is really lame? One of my guests, he had the Counting Crows were popular. But, if you look at his face it's more like Counting Crows Feet. (Between Two Ferns Theme) (whooshing) (squeaking)