Black holes are one of the most mind-boggling For a start, they aren't actually objects, of space-time. And because of this warping, some really weird change your perspective of the way the universe Some of it is so strange that perhaps you for the solid math that backs up their existence that the math is correct through observations I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching the unexplorable. Join me on this journey as we attempt to understand what goes on around them, and explore what most inescapable prisons in existence. I hope by the end of this video to have earned Black holes come in a variety of sizes. The smallest observed black hole is around On the other side of the scale, we find black the start of the universe, black holes weighing These behemoths are not only massive, but solar system within the diameter of their Black holes being created today are the final stars. When such a star is born, it is essentially The first is gravity, pushing its mass towards Down in the depths of the star, hydrogen atoms such force that they combine to form a denser This new atomic structure actually needs less separate Hydrogen atoms, so the extra energy This released energy is the second force. It radiates back out from the centre of the force of gravity pushing in. In this state, the star will remain relatively to stop as it runs out of its hydrogen fuel. If the star is massive enough, once the hydrogen newly formed helium into even denser materials and Silicon. But then it begins fusing Iron. The issue with Iron is that it doesn't save energy to release. It just sits in the core of the star, growing With no energy pushing back against gravity, The energy of this collapse is astounding mass of the star. Like a hammer striking on an anvil, the mass such force that the rebound of that blow is Matter and energy are blasted out across the largest explosions possible, which produces up to uranium. And what is left of the star? Well, it depends. If the mass of the star and thus the force neutron star - a small ball of matter at yet so densely packed with mass that it equals But if the mass and thus force was big enough? Physics as we know it breaks down, and we When you see an image of a black hole, the the black hole itself. Scientists theorise a black hole's true a neutron star. In fact, it is likely infinitely small and forces that warp time and space itself. However, we don't know. And the reason we don't know is because All objects with mass exert gravity. We've known this since the days of Newton. However, when Einstein came along in 1915 of his called Karl Schwarzschild reasoned were so massive, they could create enough And if even massless light photons couldn't When you look at a picture of a black hole, You are seeing the event horizon around it become so powerful that light can no longer There is nothing but darkness. Now, its effect on space is one thing, but the universe, time itself. You see, according to Einstein, space and spacetime. With the singularity's infinite point of the event horizon also marks the point where Within the event horizon, space and time basically 'where' or 'when'. This produces an interesting phenomenon to a black hole. From their perspective, as the matter approaches before the event horizon, where it will stop You won't ever see it cross the event horizon, Instead, the matter will gradually dim until When first theorised, astronomers and physicists real. It was only 40 years later that the first In 1964, using newly developed x-ray satellites, Cygnus that seemed to be emitting a large Strangely enough, though, scientists could It surprised them because if it was a star, x-ray radiation. Scientists called this object Cygnus X-1. In 1970, as telescopes advanced, they noticed a binary orbit with a star in its system, They discovered that this invisible object As the densest neutron star had an upper limit realised that this was most likely the first Since then, we have discovered many black Supermassive ones seem to exist at the centre photos of some, dark blots against a swirling them - their accretion disk. This is how black holes can still be detected While black holes can't emit visible electromagnetic from them actually originate from their accretion to millions of degrees Celsius through intense Black holes with no infalling matter are basically spot. Exploring black holes is still a developing to learn. From just what we've learned so far, you being a black hole, or will it grow forever in the universe? It would seem so. However, in 1974 in his paper entitled "Black postulated that there actually was a way that hole. But to understand why, we have to get into We need to examine some principles of quantum But first, let me ask you a difficult question: Imagine for a second a patch of space with It has no atoms of space dust, not even radiation As near as can be seen, nothing exists within And yet, is there really truly nothing here? Well, no. Something fundamental exists here, and we of light travels through it. If you are familiar with the properties of waves of electrical and magnetic charge that in a straight line. However, let's take a look at that word A wave in the sea is the propagation of energy If you were to look at an individual particle except in a circle, and yet because it passes towards the shore in a constant motion that Similarly, a sound wave moves by passing energy only moving a tiny bit, becoming energised in line. But in our vacuum of space, where there is travelling in waves, have you ever stopped This hints at a fundamental something that up all of reality itself. Quantum physicists call this "something" Quantum fields are tough to wrap your head when it comes to understanding the end fate So how do quantum fields and Exploding Black Going back to Hawking's paper, Hawking hypothesised over time, in initially tiny quantities. As energy and mass were two expressions of e=mc2 equation, this inevitably resulted in However, as the black hole shrinks, the rate faster and faster until in the very last moments a burst of energy that was truly gargantuan But how can this be true? It is well known that an event horizon is it, and eventually cause such a black hole The answer is a strange one, and relies on completely go against our day-to-day experience. But if it's true, I hope you're prepared than you first thought. But to begin understanding Hawking's theory, fields. Remember, light moves like a wave through reveals that there must be something existing be able to wave it. Scientists call this fundamental fabric of In fact, they believe that there are several and all covering every single patch of the Each quantum field defines a particular type One field might define all of the electrons that make up an atom. Where nothing can be found, the quantum field Think of it like a guitar string that hasn't value. But wherever in time and space mass or energy at that point, and when the resonance reaches expresses that as, say, an electron or a photon. It's important to note that in this theory, of matter, it is the matter. An electron is nothing more than a resonating electrons. This is true for all energy, and all matter matter are two sides of the same coin, after All the universe you see around you is resonating In this way, the theory portrays all of the which I think is quite a beautiful image, But why does this matter? Why is it important to define the universe Well, due to an idea of quantum physics called the strings of the universe start strumming Without going too deeply into this aspect looking at really tiny objects on the atomic about them. You cannot know both the location and the Because it is so small, as soon as you try it bounces off whatever you are trying to sure of its direction of travel. If you know its direction, according to this This is not just because our methods of measuring fundamental laws about the nature of the universe According to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, on a subatomic level. But when you apply this principle to quantum Quantum fields fluctuate everywhere and by and antiparticle pairs can actually pop in The how and why get complicated, but basically exist for a very short period of time as ruled You might think this can't possibly be a Matter does not just pop into existence. We would surely have noticed by now. However, in an experiment done by Hendrick that this might actually happen. Casimir took two plates of conductive metal only certain sizes of smaller virtual particles This limited the number of such particles But because all types of particles could pop this meant that there was a difference in plate. Theoretically, the greater pressure by the outside the plates should push the two plates be the case. You might think that particles appearing out of matter. You would be right. So, to balance the scales, whenever a virtual into existence to pair up with the first particle. But while one of the particles is matter, A "1" and a "-1" on our bar chart, The universe is happy. And on top of that, these fluctuations in other and annihilate each other, removing don't have to worry about them. As a side note, there is a theory that anti-matter direction through time, but that's a level here. The important part is that the quantum fields cancelling each other out. This is why, for the most part, empty space However, what would happen if you stopped And that's where black holes come in. Black holes act a bit like putting your thumb Due to their event horizons, certain resonances others are not. Hawking imagined sketching a line through was born. He imagined a quantum field that resonated existence of the black hole, into the future Before the birth of the black hole, all is Quantum fields are all resonating freely, However, the emergence of the black hole's and outside it Hawking realised that certain As he looked at the math, he realised not after the black hole had formed. Indeed, outside the event horizon, travelling that perfectly matched the shape of thermal Radiation is energy, and energy cannot form As the black hole was creating this radiation, Every piece of Hawking radiation would thus from the black hole, which in time would eventually If it exists, Hawking Radiation is kind of of a bank, while inside the bank the money It's also extremely difficult to prove, be colder than the background cosmic radiation wavelength as long as the black hole's event As some black holes have event horizons the this kind of radiation. We'd only really see it once the entire was nothing else to get in the way. Which would probably mean we weren't around However, in spite of the objections to it, be sound. And scientists have recently taken steps towards In the Technion Israel Institute of Technology, came up with an idea to get around the difficulty They did this by creating an analogue - a properties of a real one. They relied on the fact that sound moves much create a medium that moves faster than sound. When it moves, any sound waves travelling escape it. Interestingly, Hawking's math worked for did for gravity-based ones, and so Hawking After repeating their experiment 97,000 times the researchers detected multiple instances Hawking's model predictions of how his radiation Although this does not prove that Hawking holes too, the fact that Hawking's math implication that he might be onto something. Hawking radiation might just be real. So, if you fell into a black hole, could you Probably not. However, if you waited until almost the end hawking radiation until the mass and energy removed from inside the event horizon. Does that count as escaping? That's probably not so appealing to you. Probably best just to not go in. And that's not the only weird thing about Their existence implies something quite worrying When you're walking on a beach, and you question in your mind that it is your foot The order of causality is quite clear here, need to assert it. You made the footprint. The footprint didn't make you. But what if it did? What if I told you that on the cosmological foot and footprint might be a little more And shockingly, due to the nature of black evidence that this might just be the case. But to begin with, we're going to need to But no, not that relativity. Galilean relativity. First described by Galileo Galilei in 1632, there is no difference between being completely Imagine there are two rooms, one on a ship Both are soundproof and have no windows. Imagine the sea is calm, so there's no rocking The only difference between the two rooms Can you tell the difference between the two You might think that you'd be able to sense For instance, right now you are careening movement around the Sun, and yet if you are it's likely you would have said you weren't In fact, Galileo realised that there was no between the two scenarios. He even found that if you dropped a ball in like it fell straight down, even if from the like it was falling diagonally. Galileo realised that if you remove all frames is no way of telling if a planet is moving According to relativity, both are equally You might have noticed this yourself if you as another train suddenly passed by, quickly Although both trains are going forwards, the because you no longer have a frame of reference if you are suddenly going backwards. Einstein took this idea further with his equivalence Here he took the idea of two rooms again, about gravity. If you were inside a windowless room floating accelerating your room in the "up" direction of it - if the rocket accelerated at just to if you were standing in a room on the surface In other words, there is no way to tell the by gravity and the acceleration caused by shaking you with all its rumbling, of course. Both these principles rely on the idea of if simply left on their own, and do not like Any time you want a mass to do something different to it. Otherwise, it will remain inert. But why would it feel to the man in the room of gravity? Or perhaps a better question, why would it upwards by the effects of a rocket? The Earth is not expanding in all directions While this is true, Einstein realised that the same thing. A form of acceleration. However, there is another form of acceleration simply applying a force to an object to push Consider this spinning fairground ride. If you have ever been on such a ride, you as a form of acceleration. When you stand against the wall of the ride, force pressing you against the wall even when This is because your mass is trying to move but the curvature of the ride is forcing you The battle between your inertia trying not trying to alter your direction of travel manifests And as far as acceleration is concerned, there's you accelerating you up, and you trying to Einstein realised that this form of accelerating - was the best explanation for gravity. He came up with a theory that matter and energy of like how a ball might bend the surface The larger the mass, the greater the curvature. And once space was curved, any object trying that curve. In the words of physicist John Wheeler, "Space Matter tells space how to curve." For small masses, this curve in space would could get so great that it would be impossible escape it. These are the conditions we find near a black So, going back to our very first analogy of is the foot, the curvature of space around It's interesting to see all of this in action, which have been almost universally validated But there's nothing particularly weird about Understanding the exact mechanisms behind The black hole tells the space how to curve, is told how to move. Nothing here is outside our expectations based But when we start to look at Hawking radiation, But the most important thing to bear in mind is that it is non-local. This means that it does not appear from the of space around it. To be clear, I do not mean beyond the singularity sphere. That's hard to define anyway, space as we Remember, the black ball you see here is simply curvature and escapable curvature - the I do not even mean right up against the event theory is portrayed. People sometimes speak of two particles popping horizon, with the anti-matter particle just particle is just outside and so escapes. This is not what is happening. Instead, the region of space this radiation size of the event horizon - a distance up And when the largest black holes we have can by side inside of their event horizon, the existence this distance again outside the It happens even in a place where there is In short, it is not so much that hawking radiation Instead, it is coming into existence from is creating, and can happen quite far away But if that's true, then things work completely see in a moment. Consider what happens in this order. As energy leaves the curvature of space, the as the conservation of energy. And as this reduction of the curvature happens, This is crazy. This is like the footprint getting smaller, It feels very wrong. Things can't possibly work that way. And yet, Einstein hinted that such a thing In one of his equations, he stated that the the mass-energy of an object. But proportional is not causational. There's no presupposition that one causes We are comfortable with the idea of changing just as well if you go the other way and change If this is true, then it hints at a universe space curvature. When you shine a light at an object - say, the shadow is a projection caused by the existence Normally, in this analogy, you might be forgiven It is our mass that creates the curvature And yet, do we really know that it doesn't Are we simply the projections, shadows on life by something much more fundamental going we're going around thinking that we're We don't truly know. Given that all you know is the reality you to be able to tell the difference between But if relativity has taught us anything, the difference between two situations, then in one and not in the other. Either that, or the two might be more linked Of course, obviously this is all just a theory. There is no hard proof that Hawking Radiation been some experiments that hint that it might But this is just something interesting to And even if it does prove to be the case that to affect your day very much. You will still think and feel, and that's doing what you're currently doing. But it is an example of how when we start of reality by exploring the weird warping challenge assumptions about our very nature. After all, when you're asking the question not certain," that's more than a little Either way, black holes affect our reality, And not just because they suck everything back. They are the end, the final destruction of And yet, what if I said to you that they might Black holes might provide the answer to travelling the energy crisis in ways that we couldn't And, as by now I have come to expect, they itself, and by completely countering my expectations Perhaps we have been thinking about black But to understand how a black hole ignores travel - and does so in a way that you can a black hole's event horizon - and how time, then we are going to have to understand we've covered so far. It's actually quite difficult to say much Precisely because of the event horizon, we looks like. In fact, there are only three things we can They have mass, they have charge, and they You might wonder how we know these things leave them to tell us about them. The key to these three characteristics is the black hole that can be felt outside the Charge, for instance, works the same way around object. That is to say, if a black hole is charged, charge to it and repel objects that share Think of it like a giant magnet, pushing and Scientists can track objects that approach objects known to have a charge move towards black hole itself. Interplaying with this is mass. The mass of a black hole can also be felt In fact, it is the main creator of the event This is because mass creates gravity and does with the same principles you might find in - albeit with a gravitational analogue. So, it's possible too to calculate the mass are before they start to accelerate towards Although obviously, you have to factor in be skewed. Finally, angular momentum, or spin. It is possible to detect the spin of a large-mass how in just a bit. For now, let's just accept it as given, very high mass objects. There are varying sizes of black holes in The smallest, known as micro black holes, our moon, or 7.35 x 1022 kilograms. They fit all this into a space that's just It really gives you a sense of how dense a size than a human hair, packing the mass of And that's just the smallest ones. Stellar black holes have a mass equal to 10 60km. Intermediate black holes are the mass of 1000 of 2000km, which is still smaller than the It is the largest black holes that really times the mass of the sun, and sizes ranging being the distance from the Earth to the Sun). But other than those three features, there them. If you put two black holes in the same room and spin, it would be impossible to tell them However, these three features are enough to of space outside a black hole. Travelling inside a black hole is impossible, But we think we know a few things that must Beating in the heart of a black hole, there In truth, this actually is the black hole. When we were discussing diameters earlier, Again, we are not certain what a black hole escape it. In a space that is infinitely small, there hole is packed so that it is infinitely dense. For the simplest models of black holes, the In a rotating black hole, this is more like be difficult to define spin for a point that Our current physics get very strange around If ideal paths are travelled around this point, very strange things, like meet up with your This has some disturbing implications for like the grandfather paradox, so that probably singularities are not quite right yet. Because the singularity is so small, it'll and general relativity theory to properly and we have not yet managed to do this. It may one day turn out that singularities at all. But this is the extent of our knowledge so Well, whatever it is that lies inside a black because like most objects in the universe, And oh, does it spin. As we travel out from the centre of the black little fanfare. The event horizon actually cannot be detected black hole might watch you slow down to a your perspective it actually might seem like Normally, that is, until the universe outside because time outside the black hole is travelling This is the essence of relativity. In fact, the only evidence you might have all is because of something that exists just In a zone just outside the event horizon, enters it at just the right angle, it will in much the same way the moon perfectly orbits This infinitesimally thin zone is known as photons that have flown past black holes in it is probably filled with photons. It is quite possible that you would be instantly However, it is just outside here that we find The Ergosphere. This is the zone around a black hole where And this is because, in this zone, it is impossible You see, mass affects space. We see this in the curving effect of gravity of space. However, it might be more accurate to say it. As it moves through space, it brings a little And when an object as massive as a black hole To put it simply, reality around the black be fought against. Much like a real whirlpool, anything caught hole, because the frame of reference it sits Sort of like how a person moves because they The greater the spin of the massive object, And in the ergosphere, this can occur at a is moving faster than the speed of light. You would need to travel faster than the speed stay at a relative standstill from the point Which of course, you cannot do. But isn't this against the laws of physics? Doesn't Einstein say that nothing can travel The answer to that is yes, but black holes You see, this rule only applies locally. Right where you are, in your frame of reference, But thanks to relativity, it is possible for other so fast that objects in them appear point of view. But if you moved next to them and entered to slow down, and would start obeying the It's a really weird effect, but frame-dragging It is by measuring frame-dragging that scientists However, according to a man called Roger Penrose, If you were to send a rocket into this section up due to being caught in the whirlpool of Once it had gained enough speed, it could it pushed itself out of the whirlpool again, This method - named the Penrose Process to about 20% of the mass of your rocket. Now that might not sound like much, but remember, mass would produce energy equal to itself Squared. That's a lot of energy. So, to harness this colossal kinetic energy, nearest black hole, which is roughly 3000 with a rocket capable of surviving the intense Ideally, you would need to find one that was those get up to temperatures of millions of speeds and melt from solids down to gas and But you get the idea. Easy! Ok, maybe this is a little impractical for But the implications for faster than light frame-dragging might just offer us the key Not by going faster than light ourselves, we are in to travel at those faster speeds, Of course, if this requires the energy of of luck for now. But it's an incredible glimpse into what into the power of frame-dragging for future But maybe that's a topic for another video. Either way, this all just highlights once from what we might have ever imagined. And here's another surprising thing about Falling into a black hole is a lot harder You might expect it to be relatively easy. After all, aren't these the ultimate absorbers, out there? Shouldn't it be easier to fall into them You might have thought so but, paradoxically, These galactic maws are one of the hardest so much so that during his lifetime, Einstein all. And not only that, but black holes might even the speed of light. Shouldn't it be that these objects would Like a slide that gets steeper and steeper to speed up more and more the closer you get However, while this is right, it is also wrong. You do speed up - so much so, that your However, in almost all circumstances, you of the black hole. And this isn't me talking about some strange that will be observable from whatever frame Confused? Don't worry. Allow me to explain, through the real-world Black holes are, at their heart, very simple. In something known as the "no-hair theorem", any feature, just like a head with, well, The features of a black hole are usually fairly They have charge, mass, and spin, and that's As such, accretion disks are not actually Black holes can exist just fine without them, However, when mass such as an unlucky star pull, it can be torn apart by the vast forces centre. Strangely enough, though, this matter does event horizon. Instead, the matter usually coalesces into black hole outside the event horizon. While eventually it does all enter, this process Some accretion disks take 100-1000 million So, what is going on here? Why does the matter not simply enter the black The answer is that it comes up against a surprising of momentum. First described by mathematician John Wallis Newton a decade or so later, the idea goes the motion of those objects, aka their momentum, If one particle with momentum bumps into a bounce away from each other, the amount of the amount of the first particle on its own. No momentum can be lost. If you have a rocket on a launch pad with by firing propellant in the opposite direction. Once you add up the amount of momentum imparted the amount of momentum given by the rocket downward momentum are equal, resulting in This falls a little outside our expectations. After all, we as humans often stop and start this law. However, if you evaluate all the particles You would struggle to move anywhere without Momentum imparted to the floor must equal in the opposite direction - you just don't than you, the amount of momentum you give But what has this got to do with falling into Well, consider this next example, this time Imagine a ballerina, who has their arms outstretched The particles in their hands have momentum. They are moving a certain distance in a certain However, then they tuck their arms close to What happens? Well, they suddenly start spinning much faster. This is a classic example of momentum trying You see, the momentum in the hands is still previously travelling at. However, suddenly because it's closer to distance, but is doing so at the same speed. Effectively, it has much less distance to a result, completes that revolution much faster. This causes the ballerina to spin faster when they stretch their hands out. Now imagine this on a cosmic scale. In most scenarios, matter does not fall in hole. Almost always it will miss it slightly and as it's caught in the black hole's gravity. It now has angular momentum. As it gets closer towards the centre of the at the same speed on a smaller and smaller the further down the gravity well it falls, You want to fall a little further in? You just have to spin a little faster. However, unlike the ballerina, this matter Nothing in the universe can travel faster This is a law discovered by Einstein. So, what happens to our spinning matter as hole? Due to the massive forces and curvature involved, go any faster. It's hit a roadblock. And because it cannot spin faster, it cannot This has several effects. To begin with, as you can imagine, that creates All of this matter, spinning at such blistering starts bumping into each other. And when this is taking place at near light Matter in a black hole's accretion disk This is enough to melt anything down to a All these constant collisions pummel the atoms more of this energy, like squeezing a lemon. This reduces their mass. Between 10 and 40% of an atom's mass is which then radiates out across the universe. For point of comparison, nuclear fusion - the only about 0.7% of mass into energy. Let that sink in for a moment. Consider how bright the sun is, at 0.7%. How bright can a black hole's accretion The brightest such disks are known as quasars, 1000 times the total brightness of every star The good news is that, additionally, some departing energy. More gets shed by imparting it to matter further particles knock into slower particles moving and slowing down the lower particles. In this way, matter starts to lose its angular black hole itself. More momentum can get shed through one of black holes - their jets. We don't understand everything about these of - and only a small fraction of black But current theories suggest that they are by the spinning accretion disk, or even the which draws up material from the accretion It's likely that as the accretion disk spins, law, due to all those moving electrically The power and shape of these fields are such north and south poles of the black hole for These magnetic fields may work in a way similar down a narrow barrel. Particles moving at near relativistic speeds though we don't quite know yet why they Perhaps they are like the steam of a kettle, in the face of this incredible gravitational And when they go, they GO. Relativistic jets travel further than the often millions if not billions of light-years One jet with the catchy name of PSO J352.4034-15.3373 Earth from 12.7 billion light-years away, This is because the radiation produced by In an effect known as relativistic beaming, pointed away from us, it is much harder to Take for example the now famous M87 galaxy. Here, very clearly, a relativistic jet is This is the one coming towards us. There is very likely another jet, but we can't It's worth noting that this energy does nothing can escape from a black hole. Instead, the matter and radiation come from And again, a lot about these jets is still We can see them, even observe them moving them, or what causes them. Our understanding of accretion disks does momentum is kept - there is still some mystery But the sheer power at play is undeniable. Einstein may have been wrong - it evidently But when some black holes are firing material for distances spanning galaxies, well... it's evidently possible to not fall into And once you factor in the force of matter at you as they attempt to shed their own momentum... perhaps you wouldn't want to get too close So, we've seen how the awe-inspiring effects but it begs the question, how big can a black Finding the largest black holes is not difficult, of large galaxies. These supermassive black holes have grown More and more matter fall into them, continually The very largest of these supermassive black our Sun. However, it may come as a surprise to you holes we know of are actually also the youngest. You see, when we look at distant galaxies, galaxies billions of light years away often If the universe is only 13.8 billion years reach us, that means the galaxy we are observing from our perspective, pretty young for a galaxy. Surely though, it should be the case that holes are more massive seeing as they've into them? So, what's going on here? The very largest supermassive black hole we mass of 66 billion solar masses. By itself, its mass is comparable to the Milky However, TON 618 is exceptionally far away, billion years to reach us, meaning we are ago. This means it can be at most around 2.8 billion By comparison, our own Milky Way is approximately black hole found at our galaxy's core, Sagittarius The Andromeda Galaxy's supermassive black solar masses. One of the big factors to consider here is black holes. This is still a really new field of research, start observing black holes in the last few Even then, we can often only observe the area Event Horizon Telescope came along. But even that telescope takes ages to image really is still quite limited. In fact, most of the distant black holes we quasars. TON 618 is a quasar. Matter is pouring into the black hole's because of this, it's erupted into a quasar. Quasars can only be sustained as long as matter back to dark black holes. It's hard to fully grasp the physics of the friction here is so great, the accretion of times more light than entire galaxies combined. TON 618 produces as much light as 140 trillion resides in, to the point that we can't even However, because quasars are the brightest very far away. So, one reason for the largest black holes as Malmquist Bias. This is where brighter objects further away simply can't see the dimmer objects at that that the largest supermassive black holes the universe. If a galaxy has a very large black hole but it after a certain distance because a galaxy Another reason we don't see the biggest of the universe itself shortly after the Big As you may know, the universe is ever expanding, a lot closer together. Quasars were more common back then because into them to give off light, and there was of the universe. Not only has the universe expanded, but over Some of the largest types of stars eventually meaning that they can never get recycled back Less available gas means less gas will fall One of the theories for the fate of the universe Freeze, where after some trillions of years, converted to black holes. Even now, we see some galaxies where their new stars can form. These are called elliptical galaxies. Spiral galaxies still have gas and dust structures It is interesting that most of the largest galaxies, where there is no gas left. Gas needs to lose angular momentum to fall hole, and if that happened, then the supermassive of all the infalling matter. With elliptical galaxies, this has already hasn't happened to the same extent. One such trigger for gas losing angular momentum galaxies, or even collisions with other galaxies. In addition, there is less gas available in early universe, so black hole growth probably now. This might be why there is no quasar within As the universe ages and things become less active quasars has decreased. Which means the only quasars we see, some of, are the ones that happened a long time So, why are the largest supermassive black Well, although it may appear that way, it We can measure distant bright quasars simply Older and closer black holes may also be large, found them yet. As studies continue and technology improves, of the universe around us. So, there we have it, almost everything you Is there more to be discovered about them? Almost certainly. But one thing's for sure, they have completely this universe of ours. If you found value in this video, be sure someone that may enjoy it. Thanks to my patrons and members for your list too, check the links in the description All the best, and see you next time.