- [Narrator] Steve Nash point guards and sharpest The Canadian converted soccer player dribbled in loops and zigzags, manipulating traffic until he found space to deliver a perfect pass to a roller or an open shooter only he saw. Nash had an impeccable shooting motion, a form so rehearsed, so sturdily built that it served not just open shots but one legged-runners And, he was remarkably despite a congenital spine disorder that required so much time All these attributes made Near-perfect from the free-throw line, among the most accurate and just as deft inside the arc. Nash regularly led the league in passing, racking up more career assists And, with the production came acclaim: all-star, all-NBA first team, consecutive MVP trophies, a spot in the hall of fame. Steve Nash was brilliant, but never a champion. Why? Why did his teams, some of them great and even revolutionary, never win it all? How exactly did Steve Nash of all people retire without a title? Even Nash's first short-haired stint with the Suns had some After graduating from Santa Clara, Nash went to Phoenix with the 15th pick in the legendary 1996 NBA draft. This was a revolving-door The roster and coaching staff turned over quite and and always in a way that put at least one point guard ahead of Nash in the depth chart. Nash rode the bench for a team that certainly wasn't a contender, but nearly made some The seven-seeded Suns actually took a two-one series lead against the defending western conference and this preposterous sent the potential clincher But, Phoenix faltered in OT, then watched their Cinderella dreams fade in a blowout game five loss in Seattle. The 97-98 Suns were For a moment, the revolving door spat out a very good, very fun team. Danny Ainge was head coach, Jason Kidd was the young star point guard, and Antonio McDyess, the They shared the scoring with that also played tough defense. Phoenix rode a late-season While veteran Kevin Nash got real minutes, both as Kidd's backup and alongside him. But, in the playoffs, Avery Johnson outplayed both those guys, and rookie Tim Duncan led the way in San Antonio's first It's fascinating to imagine in which those Suns kept at it. What if two of the best point guards ever remain teammates through their primes? What if McDyess stuck and fulfilled his superstar potential? Alas, in our universe, to two up and coming point guards. So, they capitalized and sent him to the Dallas Mavericks in a trade that brought back some picks. That will become relevant later on, but first, we gotta talk Draft night 98 was an era-defining date in Mavericks' history. They got Nash and they acquired this tremendous German After a couple seasons the Mavs entered the 21st century with a new owner, an innovative coach, and a big three equipped to run and gun. Nash distributed the basketballs, Nowitzki flummoxed opposing Michael Finley slashed All could shoot, all Dallas improved a bit each and made four post-seasons with Nash. In 2001, they recorded 53 wins and came back to upset in the first round of the playoffs, but got rocked by Duncan and These two seasons ended thanks in large part to Mike Bibby. In 02, Nash and Nowitzki Dallas bumped up to 57 wins, swept Kevin Garnett and the Wolves out of the first round, then faced the Sacramento Kings in the 2002 Western Nash's best performance of that series helped Dallas snatch and thus, home court advantage. But, in game three, Nash went ice-cold, Dirk struggled against and Finley's 37 points weren't enough. Dallas had a chance to keep things even. Sacramento's Peja Stojakovic and Chris Webber fouled out midway through the 4th quarter - [Commentator] Chris Webber - [Narrator] But, Bibby, who shook Dirk on the switch to And, Dallas totally mishandled Then, Bibby danced himself free again to take a late lead in overtime, and Dirk's last-second The Kings went up three games to one, then wrapped the series in five. And, to skip ahead a bit, Bibby was awesome again over the Mavs in 2004. That was another five-gamer, but it was closer than that. In game two, Nash missed a big late shot then Peja Stojakovic stripped Finley on a crucial last-second possession. Nash missed a buzzer-beater that would have sent Nowitzki missed one that The Kings advanced. So, that's these three seasons, but we've saved the best for last. The 02-03 Mavericks ran, to lead the NBA in offensive efficiency by a wide margin. And, they defended pretty well, too. The Mavs won their first 14 straight games and ended with 60 victories overall. They got dangerously close to blowing a three-oh series lead in the first round of the 2003 playoffs, but Dirk's amazing 4th kept the Portland Trailblazers In the next round, Dallas got the victory they needed over the Kings. Veteran sixth man Nick Van Exel had a couple other-worldly scoring Dirk was amazing in game seven, and just as crucially, Webber suffered a devastating knee injury early in the series. That derailed his and althrough they would get that revenge over the Mavs in 04. Anyway, every NBA champion needs some fortunate breaks to get there. The Webber injury helped the 03 Mavs reach the Western Conference Finals. The farthest the franchise There, they met another who in typical fashion were transitioning between eras seamlessly. This was the last season the first season for a future big three of Duncan, Tony Parker and Manu Ginobili. And, oh, also San Antonio The Spurs were ridiculous, and they had just confirmed as much by becoming the first to eliminate Shaq and And, yet the Mavs showed up in San Antonio and immediately proved they belonged. Their own big three combined for 86 points in game one of the Nash outplayed the young Parker. Finley roasted Steven Jackson to take a lead in the closing seconds, and Dirk sunk a couple clutch free-throws to help secure the victory. That meant even after the the series scooted over to Dallas with the Mavs in control. But that first home game of Parker wrecked Nash head-to-head. Van Exel led Dallas to a first-half lead, but they squandered the whole thing and then some in the second half. And, at the tail end of Nowitzki collided with Ginobili, spraining his left knee badly enough that try as he might, Dirk Duncan and friends won to go up three-one, but on the brink of elimination, the Mavs made a huge 4th-quarter comeback and stole game five in San Antonio. Back in Dallas, the they'd push the series to seven. Parker could barely compete because of a stomach virus, and two of Don Nelson's to the starting lineup, stepped up their scoring to pick up a lagging Nash and Finley. The Mavs led by double swarming Duncan every but Spurs' coach Gregg Popovich and swiftly sucked the life out of Dallas. First, Jackson narrowed back-to-back threes. Then, he passed the sticks to Steve Kerr, the little-used 37-year-old who had already announced his intention to end his illustrious Kerr went off leading with three three-pointers in two minutes. - [Commentator] This Kerr again! Steve Kerr with another three! - [Narrator] The Mavs didn't score at all for eight minutes. They had nine 4th-quarter points. So, game six had once that would force a decisive 7th game, possibly extending the series Instead, the blowout inverted, and the best Mavs season of this era crashed in front of their home fans. The in-state rival went on to win Robinson one more ring before fully shifting into a new era that would But, yeah, those are the four The most promising one yielded to injury and a brutal collapse. In the final one, Nash and Nowitzki weren't good enough or clutch enough to beat the Kings at full strength. And, after that early exit in 2004, Mavs owner Mark Cuban in free agency opting to Cuban has since described as one of his greatest regrets and splitting this tandem if Dirk hadn't led the Mavs to a title with some old Nash friends in 2011. In any event, Nash in the summer of 04, and accepted a big, new contract with his old team in Phoenix. But, this wasn't his old team. This was something new, something that would raise his excellence to a whole new level. Something that would Something that in spite of it all would fall short of the championship. Nash was the crown that began the prior season. The Suns already had Shawn Marion, the unconventional star acquired with the Dallas draft pick they got by trading Nash back in 98. They had Amar'e Stoudemire, the young thunderbolt to win rookie of the year in 03 and was eager to rebound from an injury-shortened sophomore season. They had Mike D'Antoni, an Italian legend still relatively obscure who'd recently been promoted to become an NBA head coach for just the second time. And, once Phoenix dumped the contracts of Stephon Marbury and Penny they had room to sign Nash. While other important people came and went over the next few seasons, these four men formed the nucleus of a ground-breaking attack known as seven seconds or less. That was how fast offense-oriented lineups to And, that was how fast for the NBA championship. Remaining a favorite for most They just never won it. Some weird, shitty First, it was a broken face. For a trailblazing team, the 04-05 Suns were remarkably simple. A perfect harmony of style and personnel. Stoudemire could score anything inside. GM Bryan Colangelo stocked the rotation with players who could score from outside. D'Antoni made that rotation sing. Off a make or a miss, Nash would sprint up the floor hunting a quick bucket. Cover that, and he'd hit Cover that, and he'd find an open shooter. Try to cover all of the above, and Nash would gladly In the event of a breakdown, both Marion and rising provided some creative scoring on top of their shooting prowess. Those two were also best-equipped to guard opposing stars on a team that didn't defend very well overall. But, maybe it didn't need to defend when you ran the fastest pace in the NBA, and shot the most threes for the league's best offense. Colangelo won executive of the year. D'Antoni won coach of the year. And the Suns won 62 games. The NBA's best record just And, their engine, the piece that made it all possible won MVP. A remarkable achievement The offensive machine by sweeping Pau Gasol and the Grizzlies. Nash put up unbelievable scoring numbers in the next round against his old friends. When the Mavs overcame to win game four and tie the series, Nash followed with a in a game five victory. Then, he stuck a huge three rebounded his pal Dirk's and sunk free-throws that Eliminating his old friends set Nash up to rematch an old foe. The Suns met San Antonio in the 2005 Western Conference finals, but not all the Suns, not right away. Joe Johnson had never until this moment in when a Jerry Stackhouse foul fractured a bone in his left eye socket. A quick turn around between series meant that Johnson didn't recover from surgery in time for games one and The league's best offense against the league's best defense without one of its top scorers In game one, Nash kept up the scoring, Stoudemire was unbelievable, and veteran Jim Jackson stepped but Marion struggled and threw Phoenix off their game. D'Antoni capitulated somewhat style wise playing more orthodox lineups with a true center, Steven Tony Parker led a from San antonio's big three, and Brent Barry's hot shooting helped San Antonio pull Game two was more of the same. Robert Horry and Ginobili to give Phoenix a chance at overtime. But, Nash bricked his Even Johnson's return for Phoenix fell way behind on their home floor. - [Commentator] It's official, are going back to the NBA finals. - [Narrator] The Spurs to remind their victim that defense, not offense, wins championships. And, they did. Joe Johnson still believes and beat the Pistons in the finals had he been healthy for But, he and that version of Johnson wanted the salary and the Suns obliged by Stoudemire missed basically and post-season recovering from surgery on his knee cartilage. And, his backup Kurt Thomas suffered a significant injury in February. So, Phoenix's 06 title But, they stayed good by getting weirder. D'Antoni leaned on two-way the Brazilian Blur Leandro Barbosa, a couple new guys happy and the one player they got in the Johnson trade, Boris Diaw, an overstuffed French guard who D'Antoni decided to because (bleep) it. This team was awesome. And, despite the spare parts, the Suns' reliable engine made it all work efficiently enough to and himself another MVP. The 2006 playoffs were a slog. Phoenix had to claw back against Kobe Bryant's Lakers. Tim Thomas forced game six to overtime with a last-second three-pointer and the Suns rode the to a game-seven blowout. Elton Brand and the Clippers pushed Phoenix to the limit but the Suns took that game setting up a second straight this time against the Mavericks. The depleted Suns just didn't When role-players Diaw dropped an astounding 34 points including the decisive bucket and Barbosa spearheaded But, in between, Tim Thomas's cooled at the wrong time. He missed a couple late threes that could have improbably in the Suns' favor. So the series returned And, the Suns couldn't hang in game five. Raja Bell was dragging a sore calf, Nash went ice-cold from the field, and Dirk played one of pouring in a 50-point performance at which his old friend and In game six, the Suns took a big lead, but ran out of steam late. A short-handed, overachieving squad got eliminated at home in front of a deeply appreciative crowd who knew full well the man in the suit was the key to preventing And, indeed, the Suns didn't lose the conference finals in 07. They didn't make it that far. The 2007 Suns were a happy blend of the star-studded 05 time The big names returned and guys like Bell, Diaw and new sixth man of the year, Barbosa, retained important roles. This time blazed through handled the Lakers in the and got some help from afar. The Mavericks had the league's and Dirk prevented his buddy from winning a third-straight MVP. But, in the first round of the playoffs, Dallas suffered a against the Golden State Warriors, a team coached by Don Nelson, and bearing some resemblance to the small, three-happy Suns. With the Mavs toppled, between the two-seed felt like a de facto conference final if not an outright championship given the weakness of It got off to a rough start for Phoenix. Duncan outplayed Stoudemire in game one. Old friend Michael Finley and Nash's battle with when their faces smashed together late in the fourth While the Suns staff tried in vain to patch Nash's oozing schnoz, the star had to sit most - [Commentator] It just So desperate to get back in the game. - [Narrator] He watched helplessly while Barbosa bricked a shot for the lead, then Stoudemire blew a chance to keep it a one-possession game Band-aid Nash helped lead Phoenix to a blowout game-two victory, but San Antonio won a Game four would be pivotal. Phoenix played perhaps their to come back from eleven and win the thing tying and restoring home-court advantage. But, that's not why it was pivotal. It was pivotal because this Robert Horry intentional foul in the final seconds looked particularly Afer he hip-checked Nash a scuffle ensued and in the chaos, Stoudemire and Diaw broke a league rule by leaving the sideline. They each got a one-game suspension while Horry got two. The Suns rightfully made a huge stink about strict application But, couldn't change the fact that they'd have to play a huge, tie-breaking game five far more depleted than the team that started the fracas. Nevertheless, the Suns came out hungry in front of a wrathful home crowd. Nash didn't shoot well, but he helped Marion to a strong outing, while Kurt Thomas issued in Stoudemire's stead. This one was a defensive struggle, and a famously defenseless team with basically no bench almost won it. Manu Ginobili compared But, his own fourth-quarter Bruce Bowen, a target of fan ridicule for his dirty play earlier in the series buried a dagger from the corner to put the Spurs ahead and Duncan capped a great game by deterring Nash's The Suns got back to full-staff for game six in San Antonio, and Amar'e played But, the whole big three They took a big lead into the fourth that a Nash-led rally couldn't overcome. Nash couldn't hide his bitterness at how the series unfolded, and while giving the Spurs credit, wondered aloud how things might have gone without those suspensions. A series this important didn't and it doesn't make anyone feel any better that disgraced NBA ref Tim Donaghy officiated the feisty game three. It's always hard to to put into this stuff, but Donaghy later wrote the and even claimed that ref held some sort of grudge against I don't know, but that Suns team might have won game one if might have won the series and would then would have to the 07 title just like the Spurs did. Of all the what-ifs in Nash's career, that has to be the greatest. The next season, Steve and traded Suns lifer Marion for 35-year-old Shaq at the deadline. The Suns remained good in a crowded west, but they faced the Spurs and squandered their best chance to spark an upset when sent game one in San Antonio to overtime. Duncan of all people hit the and Ginobili won it in the final seconds. D'Antoni did what he could but Popovich just about with an aggressive hack-a-Shaq approach. Hackus a Shaqtus, Hacktus a Shaqtus. Anyway the Spurs bounced the Suns in five and soon thereafter, D'Antoni left town for a job with the Knicks. His replacement, Terry Porter, got fired in the middle of the 08-09 season as a scary Stoudemire eye injury and a down-ish year for Nash kept the Suns out of the playoffs. This sensational tandem but they snuck in one before falling apart. The 09-10 Suns played mildly reformed version of D'Antoni ball, and they made it work. Steve and Amar'e got back to their best and healthiest production. Veteran Jason Richardson played crucial supporting roles and the rest of the rotation was a mix of shooting and youthing. Phoenix shot extremely well from outside and kept it up in the playoffs. They beat Lamarcus Aldridge then finally slayed their demons with a sweep, a sweep of the After their brief and the Suns were back in the where they'd face a new the restocked, reinvigorated, defending champion LA Lakers. In the first four games, with comfortable home wins to bring the series And, the Suns put the pressure on in the critical game five. They trailed by as many as but Nash narrowed the gap in the fourth with bucket after bucket after bucket after bucket. - [Commentator] Nash again - [Narrator] Late in the fourth, then the Suns retrieved another carom then Jason Richardson banged with just three seconds left. Finally, Phoenix had gotten a break, and they defended Kobe's to send the game to over...oh, no. - [Commentator] At the - [Narrator] The man now just overpowered Richardson to put back a buzzer-beating game-winner. Yet another cruel finish wasted, yet another inspired comeback. The Suns looked drained They once again dug a big hole and Kobe made absolutely sure they wouldn't climb out this time. That was it. Amar'e followed D'Antoni to New York in the 2010 off-season, and the Suns commenced a Nash's Suns were incredible, among the most stylistically ever to play the game, But, in every single post-season something tripped them up. A litany of busted body parts and weird buzzer-beaters of every variety. Phoenix almost always contended, but never overcame all When Nash became a free agent in 2012, he made a winning-oriented move. The Knicks and Raptors to hand the 38-year-old but Nash's people instead arranged a sign and trade to the Lakers, a very good team that hoped They magnified that hope into hype after acquiring Dwight Howard. We don't even need to get into that era. This exclamatory pre-season SI-covered declaring this is gonna be fun might have been the high because it was not even a little fun. The Lakers were a disaster. They fired Coach Mike Brown and replaced him with D'Antoni. Nash broke his leg in his second game and his body only disintegrated further over his final two years. Those Lakers never even sniffed the finals and Nash retired ring-less as a player though he'd earned himself some hardware as a consultant for the Warriors dynasty. It's astounding and a little heartbreaking that an elite player that on elite teams didn't Especially given how went on to win without They only give out one trophy a year and you need luck and fortitude to win it. Nash and company often falling victim to meddlesome flukes or just buckling in critical moments. But, even coming that close And, that's what Steve Nash was: great. One of the greatest to ever do it. Cruel twists of fate can