Today, I want to talk to you about why employers It's a crippling mistake that I see job seekers And the problem is they're blending in; they're And when you look like everyone else, it makes you from somebody else. They don't have anything to remember you by. You have to think about it. When an employer brings in a group of people, and interviews them for a job, and when they job really difficult to decide who they should I mean, how do you pick someone from a pool the same way? It's difficult; it's nearly impossible. And I see job seekers doing this over and And one of the problems is everybody does up how to answer a few questions, just probably I mean, I wrote the book on answering interview But the problem is, some people who get that they just change a couple of different things to them or not and that that's career suicide. The whole point is to give answers that are You don't want to just give them something going to sound like everybody else. If you do pull an answer off the Internet, means, and then you rebuild it from the ground Now, this takes more work. I mean, it's easy to blend in, and that's And that's why most people don't get called But it's harder to be creative, to be unique, And that's why out of maybe 20 candidates, mark, and that's why they get the job, and So, what I want to teach you is the importance I mean, when you sit down with an employer them. I want you to challenge them. I want you to talk to them like they're a I don't want you to visualize them as this There are real people and they're out there people to come to work for them. They want people who are genuine. They want people who can help them solve their They want people who can help them solve problems And that's what you want to convey that you unique, and that you know something about problems. So, when you sit down for an interview, and real person. Don't feel that this interview is a big test. Be yourself, be genuine, look at them, smile If you just sit there and think that your questions for the next 60 minutes, then you're may not even well waste your time. Seriously! You need to go in and ask them questions too; You want to give them something to remember You know, whether you know whether it's a something you said, somewhere you've been, something that you will stand out in their that guy or that girl like, Hey, yeah. I remember them. You want to stick in their minds. And if you're not sticking in their minds, wasting your time, you're wasting their time, An interview is an open exchange of information. You go in there, you talk about the things to do, and that you'd like to do it for them You see, if you can find some medium ground Theyre going to pay you for your services, You have to show them that you have what it And this is where most people fail. They think the interviews just a big test. They think they can just study some questions questions right, theyll get the job. That's not how it works. It's not that kind of a test. They're evaluating you, they're evaluating abilities, and you can't really hide that. So, in your next interview, go in there, be that you want to be there, challenge them, Interview is a two-way street; two-way conversation. It's not just you sitting there, answering You need to ask them questions back. You need to bring them into the conversation. A great strategy to use in an interview is to work there. And a great way to do that is by asking them Ask them like, What are some of the things work atmosphere? or What do you do to do you stay ahead of your competition? them all those questions. I'm just giving you some examples. And the type of question is going to vary interviewing at, but ask them some questions And then they will try to answer that question the company. They'll tell you why this is a good company, why you should want to come here too. When you can get your interview or to start now it's almost a done deal. Now, you can kind of just sit back and enjoy you. And then you can go back and engage them and But the whole point here is to be unique; You have to stand out in the interview. If you don't stand out, you'll look like everyone the sidelines, scratching your head and wondering job interview. It's because you look like everyone else. And looking like everyone else is the worst I mean, you might find comfort in doing what we feel that if we're modeling someone else, it the right way. But in the job interview, you don't want to You want to be different. You want to stand out. You want to be unique and that's how you win. That's how you win my friend. And you can do it. So, go out there in your next interview, and Let the real you shine through in the interview. And I guarantee you'll go so much farther Take care my friend. We will see you in the next video. And an old friend of mine used to say, If going to get better. I learned of that one a long time ago. So, do that and you will be great my friend. Take care, and I will see you in the next