- OUYA Incorporated for this video game console, and the hype was spreading everywhere, yet it faded from existence. How could this exciting in only three years? Let's take a look at what really happened. Sponsored by Linode, cloud (upbeat electronic music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken, - [Chant] OUYA! - Before researching this story, I didn't remember much well, it came out over 10 years ago, but what I do remember is But when I did my digging, I realized there were some good things that came out of the OUYA, and perhaps it didn't deserve OUYA's origins trace back to its founder, entrepreneur, Julie Uhrman, and boy, does she have a resume. Vivendi Universal Games, Voce Wireless, Jacked working on Direct2Drive and FilePlanet. Oh, and Playboy! But we'll She moved around a lot longer than two years at these companies, but perhaps Julie would stay (music) Maybe. In 2012, a new company emerged Incorporated on March 29th, and Julie was the founder and CEO. In July, tech news site The Verge spotted a video game console There were some big names Yves Behar and his company This was the team that designed the Jambox and the hundred dollar laptop. Also joining Boxer8 was Muffi Ghadiali, a former product manager and Amazon's Kindle. Yeah, Boxer8 had some big names and the official name of OUYA's goal was to be a $99 which also doubled as a But the killer feature was the low barrier to entry for devs. Developers could and develop their games that consumers play on. The platform wasn't just and AAA titles. The hype seeds were and then Kotaku and Eurogamer caught wind of The Verge's discovery, and OUYA also set up a domain, ouya.tv, which initially redirected on disruptive innovation. Ooh, these guys really They wanted to start a Well, that sounds expensive, so you're gonna need some seed money. Tell you what, Julie, I'll get you started with As for the rest of the funding, Julie et al turned to Kickstarter. Oh (censor bleep) A week after the Verge the OUYA Kickstarter with a $950,000 goal. OUYA's mission was to be a so this was a great opportunity who didn't have massive budgets to get their games on The pitch video also claimed every game is free to play. - [Julie] We'll have all free to play. - But don't get too excited, the fine print goes into more detail. Developers can set whatever They can even list it But the requirement was every game, no matter the cost, had So the hype was brewing, and OUYA had 30 days to meet this goal. Could they do it? Abso-freaking-lutely. They smashed the $950,000 The OUYA campaign ended with almost $8.6 million in funding from over 63,000 backers. At the time, it was the on Kickstarter, behind Hey, I did an episode on that too, and the CEO and founder of so you should check that out next. After the campaign, Boxer8 was on August 13th, 2012. Then on December 28th, OUYA shipped out early units to developers so they could get a The OUYA dev kit was clear and it was bundled with two controllers. Then as promised, the OUYA started shipping on March 28th, 2013. But it appeared OUYA so they raised an additional $15 million in an investment round led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield and Byers, with additional investments and NVIDIA. OUYA also announced the at Best Buy, GameStop, Target, and Amazon, with availability starting It was only 11 months from Pretty good, and they launched on June 25th, 2013. So let's take a look at it. I actually bought two. This is the retail version, and this is the Kickstarter version. And the Kickstarter actually on eBay, and it was with a photo that shows it unsealed. Not confusing at all. But both units are here now, so let's take a look at the hardware. The OUYA has a tiny cube like design made of brushed aluminum, with a curved base and on the top and bottom. The length and width were 2.95 inches, and the height was 3.23 inches, and it weighed only 11 ounces. On top is a power button with LED, and on the back is a a micro USB port for an Ethernet port, and power connector. True to OUYA's open policy, the internals were easy to access. Simply unscrew four hex screws on top and the lid pops off. For specs, the OUYA was powered and one gigabyte of shared The Tegra 3 was a so you typically wouldn't see But normal consoles are this was tiny and only a hundred bucks. OUYA also had eight gigabytes and external USB storage was supported in a November, 2013 software update. And for wireless, OUYA had 802.11n wifi, and Bluetooth 4.0 LE. I think the team did a good I think it looks pretty. And as some of you may So now that brings us to the controller. When I was researching this the biggest complaint I saw was that the Which is funny because constantly talked about how - [Julie] The most important part of this to us is the controller. - But before I ridicule it too much, let's talk about the positives. The OUYA controller and it features dual four face buttons, and two triggers, and two bumpers, and there's a home button in the middle with the OUYA logo on it. The controller is comprised of plastic and brushed aluminum in a matching the console. The original controller a lighter look, and the face The community responded to this with colorblind and to OUYA's credit, they listened and modified the buttons Apparently this middle and during the initial testing where Brainiac Brent and me we didn't even know this was a touch pad. I only found out when The design does not make it clear that this is an interactive unlike on the PlayStation 4, where it's much more obvious. One thing that initially confused me is, where the heck do the batteries go? There's no hatch on the back like there is on a typical controller, so what the heck? I know, let's consult (duck quacking effect) Oh, the guide doesn't tell us How much money did this thing raise again? (bass beep) Oh yeah. For fun, I checked the Kickstarter guide, and it's even more useless because it's just the So I had to Google it. And what you have to do, you have to pry one off on and you have to pry the other side off for the other battery. There you go, that's how In OUYA's defense, they had customizable face in December, 2013, but this So what are some other problems we noticed with the controller? Well, Braniac Brent did and he noticed there I noticed the problem too when And some of my interviewees so it's widespread. - [Ken] I don't know but it does feel like it's not responding immediately after I touch a control. - [Brent] That's probably your controller. - [Ken] Oh. (censor bleep) - And the triggers, they You can really hear and when you press 'em. And the input is not consistent, despite holding the In our test against a GameCube controller, we found the OUYA triggers Also, the handles are really fat. Just for comparison, here's the handles next and a GameCube controller. The OUYA is thick. I'm getting some Xbox Maybe not as bad, but still thick. I interviewed Ron from and he said his son stopped because the controller hurt his hands. Yeah, I think I can see why. Originally I thought the shortcomings were just due to the price. The console and the and sometimes lower price But OUYA sold these controllers which is only 10 bucks and Xbox controllers. You're gonna have a hard So that's the hardware. Now let's take a look at the software. OUYA's software is built but OUYA uses a custom launcher so you don't really see much Android-ness until you open certain Through the main menu, you and the store, where you The store is not available anymore, and I'll explain why soon. But a new store is accessible, thanks to a new OUYA server Shout out to OUYA World and Szeraax for the ConnectYA PowerShell Brainiac Brent followed it to get my Kickstarter OUYA unit up and running. OUYA encouraged hacking the system, so it's pretty easy to route, and doing so won't void your warranty. You can also side load And in an August, 2014 update, you can now side load over the internet via the make menu. So after all, this is so we should probably When the OUYA launched to backers, 104 titles were available, including &quot;Final Fantasy and &quot;Save the Puppies.&quot; So it's not just indies, big titles and big publishers There were even Sonic games. By the time OUYA launched to the public, there were over 178 games, including &quot;You Don't Know Jack.&quot; Julie, you can say just shy of 180 games, or even better, over 170 games, but you can't say over 178 games. That's weird. A noteworthy title on developed by Maddy Thorson, who would later go on to which as of today has an on Steam with 76,683 reviews. &quot;TowerFall&quot; wound up being the number one selling game on OUYA, which sold 7,000 copies. Sounds like things are going great, so what the heck happened? How did this whole company You never get a second chance Unfortunately, OUYA fell short of many On the bright side, OUYA did receive praise for its low cost, small size, and openness. But many criticisms stemmed and poor performance of the system. - [Ken] Oh, there we go. We got some cursor lag on here. You get what you pay for. Remember, this whole This half of it is only about 50 bucks. To people who don't and they just listen to they probably thought this - This is a beautiful outside with incredibly powerful inside. - And then later they were disappointed by some of the performance issues. Another disappointment was no &quot;Minecraft,&quot; even though Julie herself on the console in the pitch - [Julie] &quot;Minecraft&quot; is gonna be on it. - OUYA's Kickstarter quoted which said, &quot;I could see on the platform if Minecraft Creator, Notch, tweeted; &quot;The problem with &quot;Minecraft&quot; for the OUYA is that it's Android, and our Android version of &quot;Minecraft&quot; isn't exactly that super great.&quot; You could side load the pocket edition of Minecraft if you want, but that's not really And there were more problems. Like I hinted at earlier, the controller received And since I already harped on that, I'm not gonna beat a dead horse. Thankfully, OUYA tried fixing some controller latency But I'm not sure how because Brainiac Brent noticed latency with the latest version I noticed the same issues too. Julie also stated the the controller hardware for a new OUYA in 2014, which But sadly, all these just the tip of the rice berg. Despite tens of thousands many were not embracing so there weren't enough to convince people to go out and buy one. Even the top selling game &quot;TowerFall,&quot; sold only 7,000 copies. I think that's a pretty good It's hard to build an all new ecosystem. But once the exclusivity &quot;TowerFall&quot; sold way more Engadget estimated that 80% of Thorson's sales were from PC and PS4, generating way more revenue than OUYA. Thorson went on to say, &quot;Being the best game on but it is nice.&quot; Ouch. These issues resulted in for developers, which consequently means there's on the platform for end users. And that means you're the platform now. So OUYA wanted to fix this problem and spice things up a little bit. They wanted to incentivize developers, introducing the Free the Games Fund. On July 18th, 2013, OUYA announced a year long for developers. If a dev raised a minimum for their new game, OUYA would match the funds up as long as the developers OUYA exclusive for at least six months. That sounds pretty awesome, I just gotta bust out GameMaker Hey, if &quot;Undertale&quot; can I can make something on GameMaker. It's a valid platform. Now, what happens when you offer this kind of low hanging fruit? People are gonna game the system. (drum rimshot) One of the first two games &quot;Gridiron Thunder,&quot; a football game. Some suspicions arose when each from at least in the 11th hour. But Andrew Won, the CEO MogoTXT, said this was due to generous Despite this pissing off some people, Kickstarter found no wrongdoing and let the campaign proceed. The second game, however, Elementary, My Dear Holmes! was a point and click adventure by Victory Square Games. Kickstarter suspended this Kickstarter reported to WIRED to be in violation of the rules, but they didn't specify which one. According to Engadget, not sure if they mean Sam said the suspension had to do with, quote, &quot;Suspicious accounts.&quot; In Sam's statement, he says he does not know and Kickstarter didn't give a reason. If that's true, that's in my opinion. Sam did admit he and his for immediate friends and family, and he convinced some to donate to. These other folks shared an but they weren't necessarily We may never know the true to suspend Victory's game, but not Mogo's. And on a side note, Victory Square Games their Twitter has been suspended, and Sam's Kickstarter account Do it that what you will. But it didn't end there. Another game, &quot;Dungeons also joined the fund, but many Kickstarter users SuckerFree Games, of gaming the system. Later, lead designer his father used retirement funds to pledge most of the In this situation, the case OUYA straight up ripped McDonald posted an update &quot;With deep regret,&quot; and he went on to say that, &quot;We have no plans to develop and he canceled the funding. It was nice of him to plug &quot;Dungeons&quot; eventually launched on Steam, currently holding 53% positive reviews. Dang, I kind of feel bad for OUYA. They were trying to do and people were just cheating the system and/or accusing others And this tarnished OUYA's image, and I don't think they were in the wrong. They didn't deserve that. In the midst of these controversies, The new minimum goal was And to Julie's credit, she clearly says if OUYA are gaming the system, your What a cluster (censor bleep) But unfortunately, another bad move was On August 20th, 2013, OUYA posted an ad to their &quot;Sixty bucks for a game?&quot; This ad was animated and it was... (man cries) - 60 bucks? Ugh, this game sucks. (man throws up) - I... (man gargles) - They did it to me again! - OUYA, what the heck were you thinking? - I could have bought food! - Maybe they were going for shock value, or maybe they were trying like with the PS3 baby, but I don't know. OUYA, this just felt way off. An OUYA rep told Kotaku, &quot;We are experimenting and posted this video from our community. Stay tuned for our official video.&quot; OUYA then released a replacement video on February 19th, 2014, So things were looking but they weren't dead yet. It was time for a new OUYA, not OUYA two or anything, just This new model came with double and it featured an all-white design. Which I think is sexy as f- This OUYA went up for pre-order Then after that limited stock was gone, another similar model, this replaced it and launched In March, OUYA announced This was an effort to try on more hardware, starting However, this effort didn't help much, because on September 2nd, 2014, reports surfaced that OUYA with multiple Chinese companies, including Xiaomi and Tencent. During this quest to find a OUYA managed to raise bringing the investment This was part of an effort into the lucrative Chinese market. Okay, now they were dead. &quot;What do you mean, Ken? I thought they just raised more money.&quot; Yeah, I was surprised too, OUYA was actually in debt But this news wasn't But apparently about a OUYA quietly took on an from TriplePoint Capital. Back to the present day, at this point in the OUYA could not renegotiate so OUYA needed a buyer, and fast. Thankfully, OUYA had some good assets; their dev team, their technology, Yeah, it maybe wasn't the but it was still a decent On June 12th, 2015, OUYA Wanna guess who it was? You don't have to, I'll tell you. It was Razer. Razer acquired many of their assets for an undisclosed all cash amount, but the deal did not So the OUYA console was on July 27th, 2015. The final sales count was - Amazon-- - [Interviewer] How many have you sold? - A lot. - [Interviewer] Can you gimme a range? - A lot. No, I mean, we're really-- - A million? - We're really pleased. - You're not gonna tell - No, I'm not. - Razer's plan was to move which was also an Android which they announced in January, 2015. Huh, it seems like the (error bleep) Oh, nevermind, Razer of the same fricking year. The OUYA died, the M.O.J.O The market for these micro consoles just didn't exist back then. At least Razer supported for almost four years, but then they officially shut them down. Date of death, June 25th, 2019. This shutdown rendered the OUYA store and many applications But thanks to Weiske people can use their OUYA So the OUYA was dead, but what happened to Julie, Well, like in her past, she moved from one company After OUYA, she was at Jaunt Wonder, and (taps on the desk) You know what's coming next? &quot;Playboy.&quot; Julie served as the president of media at Playboy Enterprises Incorporated from September, 2018, to May, 2020. Again, pretty short, 'tis her MO. Unfortunately, we can't show on this show because that might (upbeat music) Oh, so that's what that looks like. After Julie was done she played with the girls in football, or soccer, however you want to call it, argue amongst yourselves. On July 21st, 2020, Julie Angel City, which played their first game in the National Women's Soccer And Julie is still there, Great job, Julie, I something you're more passionate - Television. The television. Television. Television. Television. Television. The television. The television. I love the television. - So now, that leaves us why did the OUYA fail? Before I get too critical, let's start on the optimistic side. OUYA had some merit to it. Indie games are on bigger platforms now, and they've received lots of sales. &quot;Among US, &quot;Undertale,&quot; and &quot;Cuphead,&quot; just to Heck, even &quot;Minecraft&quot; and now it's owned by one in the world, Microsoft. And I think the OUYA helped influence some of that growth in the indie space. But OUYA is not off the hook completely. The company still made decisions that led them to their own demise. So here's my four big reasons Number one, poor value. $99 sounds like a great price because it's cheap. But at the end of the day, they want value. And keep in mind, this console was competing Nintendo, Sony, Microsoft. So if you don't offer that killer value, like great exclusive games that you're toast. Number two, OUYA focused on two When you watch the OUYA pitch video, at one point it seems then maybe great for gamers, then great for developers again, it keeps flipping back and forth. Who are you actually targeting? I get it that they wanted to And maybe if the company was they could have rolled out Because in real life, you can have a great but if you put 'em together, you get kind of a half-assed What was it that Ron Swanson said? &quot;Never half-ass two things, I live by that. In my opinion, I think OUYA accidentally made but they kind of forgot to also make it a great Number three, empty promises. The OUYA hype was blown out of proportion because of this whole openness, At the beginning, the marketing worked, and everyone was hyped up they were excited and But then when they got the &quot;Oh, this isn't as good as And that leads to a lot Many people I interviewed for more than a year or two. And there were some straight In the pitch video, Julie says &quot;Minecraft&quot; In reality, that never happened. And Julie also said, &quot;All free to play&quot; when but that's kind of misleading to people who don't know better. - [Julie] All free to play. - And that brings us to as to why I believe OUYA failed. Julie. Sorry, Julie, if you're The more I watched her give the more I just kind of felt like she was faking it until she makes it. And she undersells the OUYA sometimes, or sometimes she's just not very clear about the OUYA's mission. And she's also not very - Minority Media is building a game that actually leverages the 'Cause our controller has a touch pad. You're not gonna find that somewhere else. And the reality is-- - Well, the new PlayStation doesn't it? - That's true, they - So? - But they're building it - That's embarrassing. - What happens if the they're like, &quot;Hey, we Self-publishing is a thing. It basically is the app store or some variation of the app store.&quot; How does that affect your business? Does it affect your business? - It's like saying, what do you - What? - It could happen, but it doesn't benefit me to - Oh, I feel like you should Again, lack of awareness. Also, here she is talking on the controller. - Yeah, and then they to figure out where the O You've said it should be at the bottom. - [Interviewer] It goes clockwise? - Counterclockwise. - [Interviewer] Oh, really? Counterclockwise, interesting. - Yeah. - Julie, you have the controller with you, you can check this. Your face buttons go clockwise, Are you okay, you need a coffee? But I'd have to say my - There is nothing Nothing, nothing. (duck quacking effect) - Look, I get that she was trying to imply that the ecosystem and are more important than but saying part of your product is nothing special still Imagine if Steve Jobs went held it up and said, It sounds kind of dumb, right? So Julie in my opinion, clear visionary who can And as the old saying goes, a If leadership is bad, it'll trickle down to And I believe these four factors On the bright side, Julie appears to be happy And indie video games are flourishing on a whole new level today. And I think part of that is Oh, and remember how I by Razer? Well, another company was Akamai bought them. And if you have an application or website that needs to Linode has the infrastructure and the 24/7 support you need. Linode offers out of box apps &quot;See Us Go,&quot; and even &quot;Minecraft.&quot; You can run your own virtual build an online application with Joomla's content management system, or build a video streaming site with a multitude of app choices. There's so much you can do Linux virtual machines. And to boot, they offer award-winning Visit linode.com/computerclan and click one of the signup buttons, and we'll give you a 60 day $100 credit just for watching this episode. And when you do that, you're also supporting the Computer Clan, so thank you very much. So here we are at the end of 2023. We're ending the year with cubes, and we're starting 2024 with spheres. So subscribe and stay tuned for my Nexus Q episode in January. Catch the crazy and pass it on. (electronic music) Wait, we forgot. One important question. Can it run Crysis? - Television.