[Music] A weak core is a quick path towards back pain strength in real world situations. A common fit individuals is the overreliance on single visible rectus abdominis muscles. This translates real world situations the core muscles must coordinating a multitude of muscles to accomplish have the strongest ABS in the world and still to be truly strong and functional in real world and foremost it must protect the spinal effects of chronically poor spinal posture. This chances of injuries such as disc herniations, muscle increases. Secondly the core must have good potential movements in the trunk and spine. This enough to allow the breath to fill the lungs and move in all directions while still being process. And finally the core must be able to not must also be able to integrate with the strength well-developed musculature and connective tissue connect and transmit forces generated by versa. In the world of core training there are what's best for each individual will be based fitness goals. In this way exercise selection and form unique to each individual. However, in kettlebell core exercises that adhere to the personally seen have significant benefits for Loaded carries of all kinds are amazing exercises most common strength-based task needed in real In the context of core training carries create often called anti-rotational or anti- movement common farmers walk where a weighted load side while walking. The variation chosen for carry. Often called the suitcase carry. In this the other. This will cause you to want to lean to use your body weight as a counterbalance. However, the nature of the carry. Instead, the goal of this distortion of the spine and to hold yourself you need to make sure you're stacking orientation. No rib flare, no pelvic tilt, and horizontal hips and shoulders when viewed from helpful in the beginning as it allows you posture. Done properly this greatly strengthens the opposite side of the kettle bell, as they load. The next kettle bell exercise we're going exercise bumps up the complexity quite a bit. spine and simultaneously produce movement it that of the hips and the stabilization of the strength and functionality of the core, it is also calves, shoulders, and thoracic spine. In fact, it's extension and rotation, which is a common mobility leading to upper back pain and shoulder pain I recommend people start slowly with especially is a form of loaded mobility training, which is mobility ranges. But unfortunately, also in the very beginning, especially if you try to This is particularly true of the QL muscle in the tight and barely used and it will take time for again. Because of this, I recommend people to start least a week or two before adding a lightweight the feet a little wider than shoulder width apart. the feet away from the kettle bell by anywhere to your unique body. You will keep the leg that is allowing a slight bend in the other knee. Your arm You will start the movement by hinging at the hips the kettle bell as you bend down. While hinging the bottom hand reaches between the legs. Keep follow that that same path back up until you're over the head. Remember this is a whole body together with other muscles to create stability, weight up with not just the core but also with hamstrings. If this is difficult due to mobility bend in the knees until you gain more mobility. the low windmill version first, with the kettle on to the standard high windmill. And if this throughout at least 12 reps, you can always holding a kettle bell in each hand. If you use kettle bells routine, check out my new Illustrated home gym box below. It has multiple exercises tips, a chart for those new to this training modality. Well sure to leave a comment if you have ever utilized now and have any tips or tricks that you would the content be sure to like and subscribe