(upbeat music) (soft piano music) - [Danny] Music's A song can change your One song can change (soft piano music) Walking around downtown Right through the crowd and - Oh God! Oh, help me! - Oh hey George, you okay? - Danny, thank you man! Its really a mess, huh? (laughs) - Yeah. - The wind's been - You gotta be careful out here. - Well I will. You want a journal today? Gotta keep up with the times. - Of course. (George chuckles) Here you go. - Thank you. - All right, take - Thank you! In this world of And it's a great Reach right up And it's all right And I'm a wealthy man I got a beautiful wife And nothing's gonna bring - Oh Danny boy, I hate but the pipes are calling. We open in ten and the - Who did it this time? - This time it was me, but, and wipe down the tables so, you don't mind, right? - No, no, I'll take care of it. - (sighs) Thanks, buddy. (door opens and closes) (soft music) - Here you go. - Thanks. (indistinct) (soft piano music) - Give it. (soft piano music) Oh, Danny boy. - Yeah? - Here you go. Sorry it's not more but - Don't worry about it, Tony. - Danny I know you don't I hate to ask you, - What time you need me? - Come in a little - Yeah sure. - Thank you, Danny boy. - All right, I'll - Okay. (door opens) - [Roger] See ya tomorrow? - Yeah, have a good night. - You too. (soft piano music) (cars hooting) - It is someone's (Roger sighs) - Couple more months man. - How you gonna drop on a pile of used crap? - What would you spend it on? - Knicks tickets. Been saving up, goin' - Oh yeah, much better. - Yeah it is. - And what do you do - What do you mean? I go home. - Dude, that pile of used to record something I mean, if people could after you're long gone. - Who wants crap - Whatever. - No, really! That's (car engines revving) - Music school? You have got to be kidding me. - May I take your order? - Yes, she'll have a chicken And we will share Did you get that? - Oh, yeah, sorry, I'm sorry, could you - Yes, she'll have the without croutons, and he and I will share Got it? - Soup or salad? - Excuse me? - The Chicken Parmesan, it - [Victoria] What kind of soups? - Chicken noodle- - That'll do. - (laughs) That's - And a round of waters. - Sure! Be right back with - Can't even take an order. - Yeah. - See, now that's the reason you have to get - Dude, what are you doing? If Tony sees, he's - Relax, brother, I Besides, Tony's gonna be - Oh, really? - Damn right. I'm a own this place (indistinct chatter) - How was it? - Fine, we'll take the check. - Sure, I'll be Excuse me, you forgot this. - Ariana! (soft piano music) - Ariana. - (laughs) You forgot this? Real smooth, Danny boy. You forgot to say a word to me. (soft music) (Roger speaks faintly) (car engine revs) (car hooting) There's at least five, walk in this place every - It's not the same, man. She's different. - Yeah, she ain't calling. - Look, maybe she's I mean, isn't there like some Like you can't call the guy after getting his number? - Yeah, but, that's - Two days? - Well, although less common, some chicks do follow I think it depends on their Why, how long has it been again? - About two weeks. - What? You're telling me since you saw this chick? Okay look, I'm with you with in a while, getting Really, I am. But, dude, it is - Dude, do you - Like what? (people speaking faintly) - Hi there, back again? So, why didn't you call? No, no, you can tell me. I won't say anything. You're not interested, right? And then, on the that you are interested... I mean, two weeks? That's kind of abusing the Even if it is a menstrual thing. (people speaking faintly) He's in the kitchen. Yeah, yeah, I'll go get him. (people speaking faintly) - Dude, she's here. - Well yes, yes she is here but Danny, I got to - Table five. - No, Danny, wait. (car alarm blaring) - (chuckles) Hi, back (laughs) Then why are you back? You never called. Why not? (people speaking faintly) Oh. (Danny laughs) One of my mom's All I know is my name. So, do you think I (both laugh) (beer can pops) - Damn, dude, you have Or a girlfriend. - Movies it is. - What about her hearing? (people cheering on TV) - &quot;I read lips when I can and when I can't, It's no different So did you like it? You can talk, I'm sure You know what? Are you hungry? (both laugh) Come on. So tell me more about yourself. I really don't (soft music) Spaghetti and meatballs, Wait, you've never We're gonna have Music? But how...? I'm sorry about your dad. Oh, there's more? (laughs) You're cute too. So, how do you talk Like your family? But then how do you What about like sign language? So you don't know any? Oh so then you Well I think it's really cute Hey, can I show you something? Come on. This is why I work here. Play it every day and night. No, no, but I do want Yeah, yeah, I taught myself And as soon as I I just started I'm saving up to make a demo, but I haven't been able (chuckles) Here. No, come on it's okay. Watch. (soft piano music) Now you do that part and I'll One, two. (soft piano music) What'd you think? I know, but it was fun, right? (soft music) - [Roger] So how'd - Oh, meningitis actually. Got it from her dad. He couldn't afford and ended up dying right in Kinda crazy. It reminded me of I'd never wish that on anybody. - Wow, you guys really - (laughs) You have no idea. - Really? She stay - What? No! - Wow, you didn't You just did your thing - Dude, I didn't sleep with her. - Then what did you do with her? - I don't know, we - Whoa, you're I mean, how'd you even do that? - Do what? - Talk. - (laughs) It was interesting. I'm gonna need to - Sign language? - Yeah, but we have Do you know that she even - Danny, I know you like this you're getting just a little I mean, have you even thought to communicate on - I told you man, I'm - I'm just saying, there's gonna be able to say to each And then you've got her friends. And you know when you also date her - Rog. - Believe me, Diane's - Rog, you're rambling. - Hey, all I'm saying to think about here. So just do that, think about it. - Look man, I'm not gonna that could be great, just (soft music) You look gorgeous. - [Woman] So do you. - So, what looks good? - This halibut sounds terrific. Oh, I'm sorry I Spaghetti and meatballs? Come on, honey, this - Oh no no, that's great. (soft music) - So, how is it that you - Excuse me? - No, I just... I know that that's a question - Lots of hard work. - Doing what? - Waiting tables. - Oh boy, her mother - Maybe you could just, I Until I'm ready to - Doubt that'll happen. - Do you not like wine? - She's never - Not even wine? - Her mother's gonna love this. (woman laughs) (soft music) (both laughing) (Ariana hiccups) - She likes the wine. - Oh, you are just on a aren't you? Devirginizing their to the evils of alcohol, check. - She's 21 years old. - And? - And she's never Not even for her 21st birthday? - She's never had You gonna take Virginity thief, check. - Hey, come on. Don't you think you're Hey, do you wanna That's a big check. - I don't think so. You know that your - Come on, she's old enough (soft music) You ready? (upbeat music) - [Roger] Danny boy! - What's up? Welcome to your official Hey everybody, it's (people cheering) Every last conviction, I drank my frustrations down - Is it really So I sit and wait and wonder - It is now. Does anyone else - [All] Cheers! Routines and I'll sing along Yeah with every emergency Just sing along I'm the king of catastrophes I'm so far gone That deep down inside - [All] Chug, chug, (all cheers) (police siren blaring) (upbeat music) - [Danny] Later guys! - [All] Bye! (Danny laughs) (Ariana laughs) - You are drunk. Hey what's the matter? You all right? (Ariana pukes) (Ariana coughs) (soft music) You okay? Come on, let's get you home. My place is tiny, and messy. You sure? (chuckles) All right. (Danny laughs) Oh come on, you can The whole thing. Okay. Why don't you change into these? (soft piano music) I think it's time for bed. Goodnight. Good night, princess. (soft piano music) Morning, sunshine. This is for you. Congratulations, The only sign of a truly Never felt this way before Something's going Didn't know what it was Until all it starts Now I know it's love The first time I That I'll kiss Now there's nothing I can do My life will Never, never, never My life will Never, never - Oh (laughs). Ooh, ooh, ooh Ooh, ooh, ooh Ooh, ooh, ooh Ooh, ooh, ooh Ooh - All right, let's find philosophical question of, and no one is there to hear Thoughts, anyone? (student coughs) Oh, come on, people. Mr. Walker! (students laugh) - Look, obviously - Yeah, how do you know? - What do you mean, It fell, so it made a sound. - But no one was - So if I fart and no one (students laugh) it didn't make a sound? - Well, you were and you were there (students laugh) - In the back there? - It depends on the Is it mental or physical? If we define it as then it means a pattern But sound could also be mental. In that case, it wouldn't but how our mind interprets So, if you think that then yes it made a sound. But if to you, sound is - Very good, Ms. Scott. You see, not so obvious, is it? - Either way, she (students laugh) - [Student] Oh, come on. (door closes) - How the heck - Hey, are you okay? Are you okay? It looks like we're in I'm Nicole. You were really great in there. You can't listen to Mitch. He's always a jerk (laughs). But I have a feeling he in that class anymore. Come here, come here. Come on, let's (picture frame thuds) - Oh, it's my mom. (sombre music) She passed away four years ago. Everyday at work, I about the silliest things. I was there with her All five years that Never heard her complain Everyday she'd wake up and say, &quot;It's a great day to be alive.&quot; I remember, I just looked there must be a heaven because She was always there (soft music) It's from her favorite sweater. Whenever I need and she gives me strength. Of course. Did your dad write it too? (soft guitar music) Hey, it's okay. Can I try? Yeah? (soft guitar music) (Danny laughs) Well, it's close anyway. You loved your dad (chuckles) Sam? Your That's cute, I like it. Do you like Sam better? Well, I think you're (soft piano music) I lost my inspiration when Writing the story And now I write all these Like atom bombs, exploding So don't you waited too long Let the music take It lives inside you It's not a moment too late, To hold back any Hear the music, - Sounds good. - Oh, sorry Tony, I didn't - You write that? - Yeah, I mean, I was - How'd you like to Something small right You play some of your songs, - Really? I mean, are you sure? - Let's give it a shot. This music thing, it could - Thanks Tony. - Yeah., 'night Danny boy - Goodnight and thanks! (soft piano music) - So what are you and Danny What? What's going on? Hang on, you're not when are they coming Two weeks! Are you crazy? What if your mom finds out? (both laugh) I'm gonna miss you. (Ariana gasps) - It was my mom's. No, it's okay. (Ariana sighs) Do you like it? You like it? What's the matter? You can't worry about her. (cars hooting) - It's really not my place I just thought that since - [Victoria] Serious? - Well, they're They talk to each other - [Victoria] She's using (soft music) - See, now was that so bad? Interview? With who? Why would you want an internship And that's great but I've known you long that's not what you wanna do. Really? So your whole life about crunching numbers? Well what then? When you were a kid, that you dreamt about every See, I knew it. Now, what happened? Why aren't you playing a Whoa, hold, come on! Hold on a second, that doesn't I mean, look at Beethoven. You can do whatever What's wrong with No no, go ahead, tell me. You know what I think? I think you're scared. No you are, you're scared. Not of your mother or You're scared of yourself. Scared to be yourself. Life's too short to waste time Hey come on, come on. - [Victoria] She's I will not let you - [Marianne] She has a - [Victoria] The city is... (soft music) - Bye Greg. - Bye. - Hey Greg, do you know if - Haven't seen her, lemme check. Looks like she left last night. Moved out for the summer. - Wait, are you sure? - She signed out at 11:27 PM. - All right, thanks Greg. - Hey you have a - Yeah, you too. (woman laughs) - That's the last time you You will not see or even think about I didn't spend all this so you could run off with No! You're not getting this to school next fall. (Victoria slams the door) Put this where Hide something from me again (soft music) Was it something I said I wouldn't give you Was it something I did, That made you decide So I guess that one night Of this all life - Get rid of it, So I guess this is the My heart belongs to you Take it all away And shines on your face Into the shining sun, And take you away, I wanna hold you in my arms Until the sun comes - I read the email. Sometimes I forget what it Is that so wrong - I don't think we did Is that so wrong - I'd like another chance. Shall we go dress shopping? (soft music) (both laughs) (audience applauds) - Yeah, I don't know she's not responding - What, you mean, - Yeah, don't you see her? Here, hang on, let me - So where she lives? - Yeah, I wouldn't go - Look, Nicole I haven't seen or heard I'm not gonna lose her, please. (glasses chime) (crickets chirping) (car engine revving) (people speaking faintly) - Who is that? - [Man] I hope it (Victoria laughs) - Ariana's not here. - I'm looking for Sam. - She's not here either. - Still on vacation? (soft piano music) - She doesn't wanna see you. - Let her tell me that. Do you not wanna see me? I don't understand. - [David] Security! - Time for you to leave, sir. - No, I'm not going anywhere (soft music) - Get that man out of my home! - No, Sam, Sam! Come on! Sam, Sam! Sam, Sam! - Walk away! Go! (soft music) - Ariana, come and This is Hank, David's And this is Tyler, his (people laugh) - Mrs. Scott, you're too much. It's a pleasure meeting you. - Ariana, why don't you around upstairs while I (Hank slams the door) - Don't go. Not yet. (Ariana grunts) Hey! (Tyler groans) (Ariana slams the door) (Tyler panting) (Ariana cries) - I'm not sure what I guess she just - I'm so sorry Tyler. Sometimes it takes a to people with her condition. But I'm sure she'll come around. - Not a problem, Mrs. Scott. - Such a gentleman. - [Hank] Thanks - See you later! (Ariana sobbing) - Don't you ever embarrass (soft music) - You gotta let her go, dude. Sometimes you care about they don't feel the same way You might not want to hear this, but there's a lot of girls fall in love with. The right one will come Looking up at the stars Everything inside me tells - Hey she isn't the right one - Order's up! - Come on, now. Who's the one that told me that can come out of everything? (soft music) - Yeah, well sometimes it's What happen to the - Just think about all the There's no better inspiration - Yeah. Or somewhere in between the I've lost the one thing And now I'm left I just want things back Was the only things And I don't know, it but do you think you It would really mean a - She'll be there. We used to live We used to love when everyone You used to fall And now tears fall When it was good, When it was bad, There's only so I don't wanna That this my heart If you wanna give Before you break That I don't wanna be The pain, the hurt I lost the one thing Now I'm left here I just want things back It's the only things - It was for your Now don't get irrational, you can't end up with You'll thank me later! You were supposed - I didn't think she'd-- - Just fix it. - Mrs. Scott, Ariana and I were walk around some of the stores on Greenwich Avenue (soft music) - Have fun. - Thanks Mrs. Scott! I tried to picture Nothing anymore When you wish All you seem to do is cry (Roger laughs) - More people! Oh, hello! We have to get Do we have more God this is great! A fine lines between It starts with understanding Sometimes you gotta Find time to figure It's not so dark and wild, Fine lines, yeah, yeah Fine lines, fine Sometimes you gotta Find time to figure It's not so dark and wild It's lot of fine Fine lines, yeah, yeah Fine lines, fine lines, (audience applauding) Thank you, thank you. - Congratulations, I You were really, really good! - Thanks, I - Sam really wanted to be We even got to the train - No, I'm just a little She's old enough to If she wanted to be - Danny! Danny! - [Roger] I'll take care of it. - Danny Boy! - Hey Tony. - Anytime you want to have you just tell me! We nearly did triple - Really? - Well you got chops, - [Hank] Ah yes, we'll have an to start and a round of water. - I'm so sorry sir. - Well, the service - Ariana, What are you doing? What are you doing? - Is everything all right? - Everything is fine! She's just acting up, she's (Ariana screams) Get in the car. Get in the car! Ariana, damnit! (soft music) - It's the moms Bro, I'm telling I saw Sam smack the hell out we all did. Sam's a mess, she went She still loves you man. - Yeah what happened there's a whole bunch of in love with&quot; and all - Forget what I said, okay? I was wrong! It could be her bro, Look, you've got something most You can't let that get away. She went running off that way. She's probably headed (soft music) - Should I... - Go, run, I'll Don't let her get away! (soft music) - They said it would - My ears are ruined! How dare you make that It's not your decision It's my life, Mom All you ever wanted to That's why you never that's why I needed And that's why you never You don't want me to hear again, you don't wanna - Well you just lost it. I don't need an and I don't need you anymore. - Oh, you need me Who's gonna support you, Who's gonna pay - I'm not going back to college, I'm going to study music. - You've always been a - That's right, 'cause If you fight for Despite all you did to And I'm going to hear again just like Dad. And there is nothing you (soft music) - Where the hell are you going? - To correct a mistake She's 21 years old, loosen (soft music) - Get in that car - I quit. (soft music) - Marianne, get back here! That's my daughter, she (car engine revving) - Want a beer? You buy a paper - [Danny] Yeah. - And you throw it - Yup. - Ever read it? - Nope. - Then why do you buy it? - I like the guy who sells them. - You like the guy - Yeah, George. He could be out there begging He's selling papers and I mean, no one from a guy that looks They'd rather get it from or one of those But at the end of the - The same paper huh? Got a sports section? - I don't think so. - Entertainment? - I don't know. - Well, I'll put it to use. - Hey man give it a - [Roger] Yeah, yeah. - No, no, seriously Dude. - Hey, the market's Just like my turd (soft music) - [Doctor] Very often All of a sudden, there's - But there's gotta be (heartbeat monitor beeping) - You came. - It's good to see you up, Man. (Doctor shuts door) - Danny, I'm Doctor Frazier. You're seizure was due to the of Glioblastoma Multiforme, This type of cancer is especially when deeply rooted. Now chemo and radiation for a number of months, this cancer seems to (soft music) There's an off-label It hasn't passed FDA approval, it isn't supported by It's very expensive but - [Danny] How much time? - [Doctor] It depends. At this stage, could be (Danny vomits) As long as I As long as I have you, As long as I have As long as I'm here As long as I have a I'll be all right (soft guitar music) I'll fight for you as As long as I have faith, As long as I have you, As long as I have you, - Time for your next session. - I'm done. - Not yet, Mr. Foster. Chemo can take - I'm done. You know, when I was 10, my of duck eggs she found I looked after them for a while but she wouldn't I remember the day we let But it ended up being You see, they didn't As soon as they spread They owned the sky. The very next of young ducks under the bridge. They came back, every year. There's just two left now. - Okay, Danny, now what the girls would say. Girls, what's one thing you Everyone ready? - Mme, hmmm. - Babe? - Shoes. - Shoes! (Diane and Roger laugh) I know your expensive taste. - Yes, you do. (Roger laughs) - Sam, it's your turn. Great books. - Wow. - What? Danny, that's not how - What do you mean? - It's supposed to be or your favorite - But love's better - That's not the point, Man! It's supposed to - Come on, we're having fun. That's our point. Put a smile on your face. - All right, next question. - I'll get to see Oh, it's okay, You know what? I'm the luckiest I mean, how many people can say that they've truly been in love? That they met the I want you to promise (soft music) Promise me that you'll listen to yourself to your heart. (soft music) And I want you to go Wait for what? I wanna be there, when you hear the world I want to hear your - You can hear it now. (soft music) I love you, Danny. - I love you too, Baby. (Ariana crying) What do you wanna do, Sam? (soft music) - Well, I'm gonna go grab Need anything from your place? - Yeah, yeah, there's Do you think you - Of course. - Thanks. Hey. - I go in tomorrow. - You're gonna be great. - Will the nurse be coming in? - [Danny] No. - Roger? - [Danny] With Diane. - Then, we are alone? (soft music) - No. - I love you. (soft music) - Now the surgery will then you'll be here We've found that for patients for several years, it's to associate the signals with the sounds (heart monitor beeping) (soft music) - Roger. Roger. Roger. Roger, wake up, Roger. - What the-- - You gotta help - What? - Look, just for There's just - Are you crazy? You just can't - Rog, please. (soft music) - I can't believe (Danny coughing) - I'll meet you there, okay? - What do you mean? - I just wanna take - A walk? - Yeah, get some fresh air. - It's 15 degrees out. - I'll be fine, see - Fresh air. - [Danny's Voiceover] - [Roger's Voice over] How you on a pile of used crap? - [Danny's Voice over] - [Roger's Voice over] Knicks - Danny, is that you? - Yeah, George, how you been? - Well, better than Whatchu got on? Have you lost weight? Where've you been, I - Yeah, I've been a little sick. - You shouldn't be you might catch something. - It's beautiful out, So how's business been? - Well, you know, slow. - Yeah. well, George, I'm not gonna - Really, you're with that lady friend? She's a looker, I'll tell ya. - No, no, she'll - Oh, that's too bad. - Now listen I was on some reading, stock - Oh yeah sure, you gotta keep How many you want? - I don't know, I (soft music) - I was getting (soft music) (Danny coughing) - You're a good friend, Rog. - You're welcome. Danny, Danny, hey, come (soft music) I need a doctor fast! - Somebody get Dr. Frazier! - Are you crazy? He could die out there! Get a gurney! (soft music) I need his breathing (soft music) - I'm so sorry, guess it wasn't - It was beautiful. (soft music) - Sam should be getting so you should get to see her. What do you mean, no? - I look like crap. - Man, you know she Besides you don't look that bad. (Danny laughs) But you do sound (soft music) - You know, I never - Stop. - I love you, Man. (soft music) - Love you too, Brother. (soft music) - But you gotta stop (both laughing) Would you do me a favor? Check on Sam for me? (soft music) - Yeah, okay. - Hey, it's love. - What? - The answer in the (soft music) - Can you tell me is due to get out of recovery? - And you are? - A friend. One thing we could - Excuse me? - Nothing. - [Danny's Voice over] Ended of her when she was five. Reminded me of my mom's passing. I'd never wish that on anybody - - Oh my God! - Ms. Scott is due out (soft music) As long as I As long as I As long as I (Roger crying) (soft music) - If you asked him, Danny If you saw his apartment you'd have a hard time But if you met him, He was only 24 but Danny in a lifetime. Don't worry, I'll be (soft music) - We are gathered here To commit his soul to the - The same goes for - Thanks. - Okay. - It still feels weird I don't even know if I like it. - It'll take time. (soft music) You know, for Danny with you, When he would talk to me about Told him how that it was unrealistic. I basically told You know what he told me? He said he wasn't gonna just 'cause it (Ariana sobs) (soft music) If he would have listened to me, he would've missed out on the (soft music) There's one more thing. (soft music) It's from Danny. - What is it? - It's love. Take care Sam. (soft music) (soft music) (Ariana screaming) (soft music) - [Danny's Voiceover] Hey It's the first day of But don't take life's the way most people do. Go outside and hear the world. It's a beautiful place Now you can hear it all. Live a full life Sam, It might seem like I'm just staying with But I'll be there So love with all your heart, 'cause where there's Where there's love, All you have to do is listen. I love you Sam, (soft music) Father won't you One that I don't Mother give me a sign One that I can (upbeat drumbeats) (girls laughing) (pigeons flattering) (upbeat music) You Wonder sometimes If you're gonna be all right When you step And listen to your heart To your Heart Just listen to your heart Listen to your heart Just listen to your heart Just listen, listen - Music's a powerful thing. One song can change your mood, (soft music) make a memory. (soft music) One song can change (soft music) (soft piano music)