On September 13, 2018, a pipeline crew in the work replacing an aging cast iron natural gas just north of Boston, the original cast iron for replacement. To maintain service during the to deliver natural gas into the downstream new plastic main line. By 4:00 pm, the new old cast iron pipe capped off. The last step of valves on each end of the bypass were closed, the was completely isolated from the system. But it Within minutes of closing those valves, the spiked. One of the fittings on the new line blew to plug the leak, the crew heard emergency saw plumes of smoke rising above the horizon. would be damaged by fire and explosions, 22 people (including three firefighters) would of the worst natural gas disasters in American of the event that lasted about a year. So and the ways this disaster changed pipeline it never happens again. I'm Grady, and this we're talking about the 2018 Merrimack Like many parts of the world, natural gas and businesses in the United States. It's a extracted from geologic formations using drilled gas pipelines that essentially interconnect gathering lines connect lots of individual connect those plants to cities, and then the pipes stations and regulators control the pressure of cities in the US have distribution systems that customers for heating, cooking, hot water, is in many ways very similar to the power grid, Just like a grid uses different voltages to complexity of the equipment, a natural gas network compressor stations boost the pressure appropriate for individual pipelines where ratings and more frequent inspections, homes and businesses to contain pipes So, where safety is critical, the Just a quick note on units before we get too system pressures in natural gas lines. millimeters of water column as a measure of natural gas pressure is around 12 inches (or 300 which you would have to blow into a vertical About like that, roughly half a psi or 30 units with a "g" at the end, like and it just means that the measurement excludes encounter in life are "gauge" values that ignore gas engineers prefer to be specific, since it can The natural gas main line in the Merrimack Valley or about 5 bar, although that pressure could for comparison, that's 173 feet or more than 50 system, the network of underground pipes needed a consistent half a psi or 30 millibar, no device that made this possible was a regulator. used in natural gas systems, but the ones in which are pretty ingenious. It's basically temperature. The pilot is a small pressure closing of the larger primary valve. If the pilot the set point, it changes the pressure in the main all works without any source of outside power Columbia Gas's Winthrop station was just a short done on the day of the event. Inside, a pair the pressure in the distribution system. One of primary regulator that maintained gas pressure. A of redundancy to the system. The monitor regulator than the worker so it could kick in if the make sure that the low-pressure system never 14 inches of water column or 35 millibar. But, in the two regulators can't use the downstream the reading at the worker would be affected by any measuring pressure right at the valve can be the valve itself. It would be kind of like putting wouldn't be getting an accurate reading. So, the monitor the pressure in the distribution system a The worker and monitor regulators were both they allowed high pressure gas to flood the happen? The NTSB's report is pretty clear. Tying called a hot tie-in, is a pretty tricky job that steps: First a bypass line was installed across line. Then balloons were inserted into the main cut. Once the gas was purged from the central bypass line kept gas flowing from upstream to and the new plastic tie in was attached to the the crew switched the upstream gas service from line and deflated the last balloon so that gas still pressurized, since it was still connected as soon as the crew closed the valves on fully isolated, and the pressure inside What that crew didn't know is that when that a critical error had been made. The main discharge the new polyethylene pipe, but the sensing main. It hadn't been an issue for the previous 2 but this tie-in job was the first of the the original piping. Within minutes its pressure began to drop. To a regulator, from high demands on the gas system and and they respond the same way in both cases: open gas flow would result in higher pressure in the was not a normal situation. It's the equivalent as pressure in the distribution system rose, drop with the abandoned line. The regulators, not eventually flooding the distribution system with By the time things went sideways, the their equipment out of the excavation. But it blew off into his hand as The crew heard firefighters racing throughout the the horizon. The overpressure event had started a that weren't designed for such enormous pressures. strained the resources of local officials. Andover, and North Andover had deployed well explosions and fires, and help from New Hampshire, and Maine would quickly follow. activated the statewide fire mobilization forces in the state, 180 fire departments, and was shut off to the area to limit sources and of course, natural gas service was By the end of the day, one person 50,000 people were evacuated from the into their homes after three days, many enough to escape immediate fire damage as miles of pipelines and appliances had to be leaving residents without stoves, hot water, and NTSB had several recommendations stem from their gas companies were exempt from state rules that engineer on project designs. Less than three be lifted, a bill was passed requiring a PE providing the public with better assurance be taking responsibility for these inherently the same recommendation and sent letters to the but most of those states still don't require a were recommendations about emergency put the area's firefighters through a stress NTSB also addressed the lack of robustness of low against overpressurization is sensing lines on how a single action of isolating a gas line regulators in series and quickly lead to an multiple system components fail in the same way and you obviously never want that to happen natural gas lines. Interestingly one solution to this problem is to convert that uses high pressure. Because, in this kind of essentially eliminating the chance of a common Most importantly, the NTSB did not mince disaster. They were clear that the training or the condition of the equipment at the Winthrop event. Rather, they found that the probable engineering management that did not adequately To put it simply, they just forgot to include the pipeline replacement project, and the constructability reviews. NiSource, the parent estimated claims related to the disaster weak engineering management. Ultimately, Columbia safety laws and sold their distribution operations complete overhaul of their engineering All those customers hooked up to natural gas company was managed; they didn't have a and they probably didn't even understand the and create a dangerous and deadly condition in their own homes. The event underscored the crucial the catastrophic results when engineering systems Just like natural gas projects require the same is true for aviation. One example is loaded 747 venture onto the runway of a small leading to the deadliest crash in aviation recently released a documentary about the disaster Maybe you've noticed what I have over the past few are just running reality shows, and the best is being made my independent creators. I won't Brian from Real Engineering, Sam from Wendover Harris. They're all making videos that are more the old tv shows I miss. Neos video (along with a Nebula, the streaming platform built by and for Nebula is the answer to the question of what could have to cater to an algorithm. What if viewers their advertisers? And it just keeps getting excellent educational channels, original series and even classes from your favorite creators And right now, you can pay just $30 for an description below. That's less than $3 a month. come out on YouTube. If watching videos like you should have the best viewing experience on free like it is right now at the link below. Thank