- There are four as we now understand it: There's gravity and electromagnetism, which are the classic forces, which were known already in pre-history, and known, in some form, but which had mature theories, already in the 17th century with Newton, and in the 19th century with Maxwell. And very beautiful descriptions, and in the case of gravity, with Einstein's general in the early 20th century. But in the course of and in what goes on at people found they needed that gravity and And the two additional forces are called the strong and weak forces. What I got the Nobel Prize for was figuring out the and equally important- not just guessing the equations, but showing how you could test them and see that they were right. This was something I did I was of course working very a very, very gifted and powerful physicist named David Gross. So how did we go about doing it? Well, there were some, there were- the experimental situation was very confused, desperately confused. There was no theory even remotely worthy of standing beside or Einstein's, or Maxwell's There were just a lot of rules of thumb and a lot of confusing data. What we did was focus on and try to understand just that; putting off all other aspects The phenomena we tried to so crazy, that we thought we could understand anything, basically. And also it seemed- because it seemed so profound and fundamental. Actually, David thought that you couldn't understand it within the standard framework of quantum mechanics and relativity. And that would be a very because it would tell physicists they had to go back to the drawing board. This aspect that we were trying to explain was the fact that quarks- which were somewhat speculative, but a pretty clear indication when they get close together, Or when they're moving relative to one another they don't interact very much at all. But if you try to pull them which means in this case, 10 or if they're moving slowly, then they have very, very powerful forces. In fact, you can't extract they always exist bound to one another inside protons and neutrons. So we needed a force which and grows as the distance grows. That's a very paradoxical to imagine and make consistent with the other laws of Now, there were powerful for investigating that kind of question, that had been developed in other- for other purposes called So we were able to bring and address this question. And there were very It wasn't entirely clear that you could actually do in the kind of theory that we wanted to investigate. But we insisted on hoping that would be the right equations. And we found out that a of theoretical constructions, with tremendous amounts of symmetry, could give you this behavior. So that was, that was, I like to say that- I compare that to Archimedes saying that, &quot;If you give me a lever I can lift the world.&quot; Based on that kind of leverage given by the sort of basic principles, and faith, and symmetry, and beauty, plus this one fact about we were led to quite a unique proposal for what the equations of the And we could develop some and then propose to and check whether these Now, it took several years that those consequences But they are, and in subsequent years, it's become more and more, more clear. The theory has been used for now with great success, in the early days was called 'testing quantum chromodynamics' or testing asymptotic freedom, is now called 'calculating backgrounds.' So it's gone from being of new worlds to kind of so that you could- you could look for more But it's, well, although it's kind of a step down in- if I, you know, look at it in the big picture, it's glorious that you have a theory that was originally very speculative and just something that And we had- and it's gone now to being an absolutely accepted and of nature- and a very beautiful one.