Alright, alright! Today's going to be a fun day. And I'm going to need your help. So keep your eyes on the hands of the clock. Because we're starting... now! At eight o'clock I wake up. Make my bed. Put on my clothes. At nine o'clock Breakfast time! Brush my teeth. Get ready to go. At ten o'clock Time for school. With my friends It's always cool. Eleven o'clock Play outside. Watch me race Down the slide. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Alright, alright. That's good, really good! But this is just the morning We still have lots of hours ahead. Are you ready? Twelve o'clock I learn a song. We celebrate and dance along. Yeah! At one o'clock Time for lunch. I love my veggies. Yum, yum, yum! At two o'clock We take it slow. I have a nap. That's how I roll. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Well done! This is going great. But don't back off now! The best has yet to come... Let's go! At four o'clock After school I go swimming in the pool. At six o'clock Quack, quack, quack. I play with Ducky in the bath. At eight o'clock Get pj's on. I read a story. Start to yawn. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Nice job! We've arrived at nine o'clock, And I'm getting sleepy. I don't know about you, but I'm going to have sweet dreams Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. Hours, Hours of the day. And then a... Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Every day in my room, I get my brush and paint for you. With my colors, I draw, draw, draw. Make a mess, but clean it all. And then a... Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. While I sing my little song, I put my toys where they belong. As I should, I eat my food, clean my plate, and drink my juice. I wash my face, brush my teeth. I smile so bright, just look at me. [crescendo] And then a... Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. It's time for bed, say good night. Wake me up at sunrise. I like to sleep all night long. In the morning, we'll sing my song. And then a... Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. Penguin dance, penguin dance. [music] Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. First, go the crayons in their box. If you make it a rainbow, it's more fun. Then go the pencils in the cup. Tidy, tidy, tidy, tidy tidy them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Close the glue and put it away, so you can use it another day. Get the papers, stack them up. Stack, stack, stack, stack, stack them up! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. If you tidy up your room with me, we could do it easily. Wash your hands after you paint, then close the colors and put them away. Get the scissors. Keep them safe. Close them up, that's how they stay! Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. Cleaning is easy, cleaning is fun. If you make it a game and sing along. [music] Everybody, get up. We're going right. Right. We're going left. Left. We're going up. Up. We're going down. Down. Now don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Raise your arms. Arms. Turn around. Around. Kick your legs. Legs. Now shake. Shake. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a smile on your face. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a-- This is how you put a-- This is how you put a smile on your face. Baby Baby Bot Bot. We're going right. Right. We're going left. Left. We're going up. Up. We're going down. Down. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Raise your arms. Arms. Turn around. Around. Kick your legs. Legs. Now shake. Shake. Don't stop, Baby Bot. This is how you do it. Baby Baby Bot Bot. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a smile on your face. Twist, twist, twist and jump in place. This is how you put a-- This is how you put a-- This is how you put a smile on your face. Baby Baby Bot Bot. -Monday, Monday. -Tuesday, Tuesday. -Wednesday, Thursday. -And Friday. -Monday, Monday. -Tuesday, Tuesday. -Wednesday, Thursday. -Friday, Friday. -Saturday and Sunday. Seven Saturday and Sunday. Dance with me! -Monday, Monday. -Monday, Monday. -Tuesday, Tuesday. -Tuesday, Tuesday. -Wednesday, Thursday. -Wednesday, Thursday. -And Friday. -Monday, Monday. -Tuesday, Tuesday. -Wednesday, Thursday. -Friday, Friday. -Saturday and Sunday. Seven Saturday and Sunday. Dance with me! Saturday and Sunday. Seven Saturday and Sunday. Dance with me! The wheels on the bus go round and round. (Hey!) Round and round. (Hey!) Round and round. The wheels on the bus go round and round. Round and round. The bulldozer goes push and lift. (Hey!) Push and lift. (Hey!) Push and lift. The bulldozer goes push and lift. Push and lift. We're on the move today. Let's go, we're on our way. Hey, hey, hey, hey! The big tall crane goes up and down. (Hey!) Up and down. (Hey!) Up and down. The big tall crane goes up and down. Up and down. The steamroller goes roll and smoosh. Roll and smoosh. Roll and smoosh. The steamroller goes roll and smoosh. Roll and smoosh. We're on the move today. Let's go, we're on our way. Hey, hey, hey, hey! The tricycle goes vroom, vroom, vroom. (Hey!) Vroom, vroom, vroom. (Hey!) Vroom, vroom, vroom. The tricycle goes vroom, vroom, vroom. Vroom! We're on the move today. Let's go, we're on our way. Hey, hey, hey, hey! Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Roll it and pat it and mark it with &quot;B.&quot; Put it in the oven for Billy and me, For Billy and me, For Billy and me. Put it in the oven for billy and me. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Cut it with a knife. Put it on a plate. Please Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Please Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Roll it and pat it and mark it with &quot;C.&quot; Put it in the oven for Cowy and me, For Cowy and me, For Cowy and me. Put it in the oven for Cowy and me. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Roll it and pat it and mark it with &quot;E.&quot; Put it in the oven for Elliot and me, For Elliot and me, For Elliot and me. Put it in the oven for Elliot and me. Pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake baker's man. Bake me a cake as fast as you can. Cut it with a knife. Put it on a plate. Please, Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Don't make me wait. Please, Mr. Baker, oh don't make me wait! [music] Good morning, good morning, It's a brand new day! Good morning, good morning, Hip-hip-hip hurray! Good morning, good morning, The day has just begun! Good morning, good morning, Time to have some fun! Hello, hello, hello, How are you today? Hello, hello, hello, Would you like to play? Hello, hello, hello, I hope you're doing well! Hello, hello, hello, Seeing you is swell! [music] Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, I'll be on my way. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, See you another day. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, See you in a while. Goodbye, goodbye, goodbye, A hug, a kiss, a smile. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time to close your eyes. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time for lullabies. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Quiet, not a peep. Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight, Time to go to sleep. Shh. [music] Today we're going to go Backwards in time. Buckle up, we're in for an awesome ride! Fossils, paintings, and more, There's so much to look for. That's the way. In the Greek hall I see Lots of statues dancing over to me. I'm an amazing adventurer. Traveling all around the world. Let's go to the museum today. Going to check out the space shuttle, Can't wait! Let's go to the museum today. I know way more than I did yesterday. Really got to pull me, Really got to pull me away. From the museum today. Can't wait to see the dino, He's a T Rex! His huge skeleton is so complex! Art, photos, and more. There's so much to explore. That's the way, yay! In the Greek hall I see Lots of statues dancing over to me. I'm an amazing adventurer. Traveling all around the world. Let's go to the museum today. Going to check out the space shuttle, Can't wait! Let's go to the museum today. I know way more than I did yesterday. Let's go to the museum today. Going to check out the space shuttle, Can't wait! Let's go to the museum today. I know way more than I did yesterday. Really got to pull me, Really got to pull me away. From the museum today. [music] [yawning] Twinkle twinkle little star. How I wonder what you are. Up above the world so high. Like a diamond in the sky. Twinkle, twinkle little star. How I wonder what you are. [music] Twinkle twinkle in my sleep, Counting stars and fluffy sheep. Milkshake's on the Milky Way, Slowly turning night to day. Twinkle twinkle in my sleep, Counting stars and fluffy sheep. [music] Twinkle, twinkle little star, How I wonder what you are. Up above the world so high, Like a diamond in the sky. Twinkle, twinkle little star, How I wonder what you are. [music] La-la-la-la-la-la-la La-la-la-la-la-la-la [sheep bleats] There were ten in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Nine! There were nine in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Eight! There were eight in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Seven! There were seven in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Six! There were six in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Five! There were five in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Four! There were four in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Three! There were three in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, Two! There were two in the bed, &quot;Roll over! Roll over!&quot; So they all rolled over, One! There was one in the bed, &quot;Good night!" Wash my hands, wash my hands. Scrub, scrub, scrub. Scrub, scrub, scrub! Lots of soap and water, lots of soap and water. Rub a dub, rub a dub. Brush my teeth, brush my teeth. morning and night, morning and night! Now I rinse with water, now I rinse with water. Clean and white, clean and white! Comb my hair, comb my hair. Get the knots, get the knots! Roll the comb gently, roll the comb gently. That helps lots, that helps lots. Wash my face, wash my face. Splash, splash, splash. Splash, splash, splash! I love getting clean, I love getting clean. It's a blast, it's a blast! Hickory Dickory Dock, the cat ran up the clock. The clock struck one. She ran back down! Hickory Dickory Dock. Tick tock tick meow! Hickory Dickory Dock, the bird flew up the The clock struck two, and down she flew! Hickory Dickory Dock. Tick tock tick chirp! Hickory Dickory Dock, the dog ran up the clock. The clock struck three. He found a flea! Hickory Dickory Dock. Tick tock tick woof! Hickory Dickory Dock, the rabbit hopped up the clock. The clock struck four. She hopped to the floor! Hickory Dickory Dock. Tick tock tick boing! Hickory Dickory Dock, the fish swam up the clock. The clock struck five. He took a dive! Hickory Dickory Dock. Tick tock tick splash! Hickory Dickory Dock, the pets went in the clock. The clock struck six, and they played tricks! Hickory Dickory Dock. Tick tock tick woohoo! You're at the pool and swimming and you start to get that feeling. I think you know what it's time to do. Take a break and go poop. You're outside jumping rope and you think you gotta go I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. You're sitting down and eating And you start to get that feeling I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. You're playing in the snow And you think you gotta go I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. You're cuddling up and reading but you start to get that feeling. I think you know what it's time to do! Take a break and go poop. Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Poop, poop, poop. It's time to poop. Poop, poop, poop. Everybody goes poop! Now wipe. And Flush. And wash. Everybody goes poop. Far in the candy mountains there lives a unicorn who loves to give. If you're using crayons you wouldn't understand how its magic colors all the land. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. Brighter than the sun we shine leaving glitter trails behind. Rainbow twinkles painting the sky. It's so much fun to fly. My unicorn has a horn that can color the world. Red and yellow. Blue, pink and purple. Orange and green. Brighter than you've ever seen. Let me show you places that you've never been. My unicorn! [music] Drink up all your water. Five cups a day. Five cups of water, keeps the doctor away. Drink a little water to hydrate yourself. When you're at the playground, drink from the fountain. Drink water. Drink water. Drink water. Drink water. Drink up all your water. Five cups a day. Five cups of water, keeps the doctor away. Drink a little water to hydrate yourself. When you're at the playground, drink from the fountain. Makes your skin so bright and clear. Helps you see and taste and hear. Makes your skin so bright and clear. Helps you see and taste and hear. Drink water. Drink water. Drink water. Drink water. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. I said B-U-B-B-L-E-S. I said B-U-B-B-L-E-S. Aaaaaah... Show your hands. Show, show your hands. Turn on the water. On, on the water. Get the soap. Get, get the soap. Here we go. Here, here we go. Scrub, scrub. Scrub, scrub, scrub, scrub, scrub, scrub. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. Aaaaah! One, two, ready, go. Rinse your hands. Rinse, rinse your hands. Dry your hands. Dry, dry your hands. Turn off the water. Off, off the water. Aaaaaaah...! B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B-B-L-E-S. We're making bubbles, bubbles. Stay out of trouble. B-U-B. [trumpet music] What do you do to stay active? Do you run around and play? Do you walk the dog in the neighborhood, or hula hoop all day? Maybe you do karate, or ride around on your bike. Let's take care of our bodies by moving and grooving all day long. Let's run. (Grooving, grooving) Let's walk. (Grooving, grooving all day long) Let's hula. (Grooving, grooving) Let's ride. (Grooving) Let's dance. (All day long) What do you do to stay healthy? Do you throw a ball to your friends? Do you bounce real high on the trampoline, or show off all your bends? Do you zoom around on your skateboard, or lift some weights at the gym? Let's take care of our bodies by moving and grooving all day long. Let's throw. (Grooving, grooving) Let's bounce. (Grooving, grooving all day long) Let's skate. (Grooving, grooving) Let's lift. (Grooving) Let's dance. (All day long) What do you do at the end of the day as you start to say good night? Do you brush and flush and get big hugs to end your day just right? Do you get to read a story? Do you like to snuggle tight? Let's take care of our bodies by sleeping through the night. Once per day A shower I will take To get all clean Before I go to sleep It's so much fun I'll show you how it's done Let's sing along Our happy shower song Turn on the warm water Grab your soap All over your body Scrub, scrub, scrub Your shampoo is waiting Squeeze some out Wet your hair a little and Wash, wash, wash Scrub, scrub, scrub Wash, wash, wash And rinse it all together Turn off the warm water Take a towel Dry yourself And now you're done! Once per day A shower I will take No more smelly feet Let's take off my stinky jeans It's so much fun I'll show you how it's done Let's sing along Our happy shower song Turn on the warm water Grab your soap All over your body Scrub, scrub, scrub Your shampoo is waiting Squeeze some out Wet your hair a little and Wash, wash, wash Scrub, scrub, scrub Wash, wash, wash And rinse it all together Turn off the warm water Take a towel Dry yourself And now you're done! In the morning I brush my hair, brush my hair, brush my hair. In the morning I brush my hair. In the morning. In the morning I wash my face, wash my face, wash my face. In the morning I wash my face. In the morning. Before I eat I wash my hands, wash my hands, wash my hands. Before I eat I wash my hands. Before I eat. (yum!) In the evening I take a bath, take a bath, take a bath, In the evening I take a bath. In the evening. In the evening I dry my hair, dry my hair, dry my hair. In the evening I dry my hair. In the evening. At bedtime I go to sleep, go to sleep, go to sleep. At bedtime I go to sleep. Say good night! (Good night!... !Buenas noches!) [music] Summer's here, so call your friends Put on the sunscreen so the fun never ends Grab a beachball and the towels too The sun is out and the sky is blue This is the summer The summer song Between 11:00 and 4:00 PM Seek, seek, seek, seek, seek some shade Wear a hat, sunglasses too Here you go, one for me and for you This is the summer The summer song [music] Summer's here, so call your friends Put on the sunscreen so the fun never ends Grab some fruit and water too The sun is out and the sky is blue This is the summer The summer song Between 11:00 and 4:00 PM Seek, seek, seek, seek, seek some shade Wear a hat, sunglasses too Here you go, one for me and for you This is the summer The summer song [music] This is the summer, the summer song This is the summer, the summer song This is the summer, the summer song [music] Every morning I brush my teeth. My smile is clear. No monsters in here. I brush left, I brush right. I move it in a circle, and I spit it out. I move it in a circle, and my smile is bright. Brush away, brush away, little monsters go away. When I brush my teeth, I make them go away. Brush away, brush away, little monsters go away. My smile is way too bright for you to stay. I brush my teeth in the morning every day. Come on, everyone! Up, down, left, right. Circle, circle, circle and spit it out. Every night I brush my teeth. My smile is clear. No monsters in here. I brush left, I brush right. I move it in a circle, and I spit it out. I move it in a circle, and my smile is bright. Brush away, brush away, little monsters go away. When I brush my teeth I make them go away. Brush away, brush away, little monsters go away. My smile is way too bright for you to stay. I brush my teeth in the night every day. [music] I'm feeling hungry and there's nothing in the fridge So come on, tie your shoes and let's go to the store We need to cross the city, say hi to everyone We go by the post office, the butcher, the park, and the clothing store The hospital, the fire station, and the ice-cream shop And there is the store Filled with everything that we've been looking for From fruit and meat, to fish and eggs, and my favorite vegetables How fun is the store [music] Let's get our bag for the groceries, make sure it's a reusable one Don't forget to smile at the cashier and pay for everything we've bought We need to cross the city to take all the things back home We go by the post office, the butcher, the park, and the clothing store Oh wait, I think we forgot someone Let's get back to the store Filled with everything that we've been looking for From fruit and meat, to fish and eggs, and my favorite vegetables How fun is the store [music] How fun is the store [music] [music] At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The oven is great for baking just be careful because it gets so hot. At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things With these amazing machines. The washing machine spins so fast and cleans all my clothes. At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The microwave heats up the food in less than one minute. At home I love to help with chores. FIrst in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The dishwasher saves water. Makes the dishes squeaky clean. At home I love to help with chores. First in my room and then in yours. We can do incredible things with these amazing machines. The vacuum cleaner removes the dirt And keeps our house clean. [music] I put on my helmet when I go for a ride. I buckle my seatbelt when I go for a drive. When I stop at the crosswalk, I look both ways. We have laws in our city that keep us safe! Let's be good neighbors. Wear a helmet! Let's be good neighbors. Buckle up! Let's be good neighbors. Look both ways! We have laws in our city that keep us safe! I listen to my friends when they'd like to talk. I share my toys, and I share my blocks. When we work together, I wait my turn. We have rules at school to help us learn! Let's be good neighbors. Be a good listener! Let's be good neighbors. Share your toys! Let's be good neighbors. Wait your turn! We have rules at school to help us learn! [music] I plant the flower to brighten up my town. I pick up trash when I see it on the ground. I say hello while I walk outside. Let's be good neighbors by acting kind! Let's be good neighbors. Plant the flowers! Let's be good neighbors. Pick up trash! Let's be good neighbors. Say hello! Let's be good neighbors by acting kind! [music] Get out of bed. Pull up the sheets. Go to the kitchen. And take a seat. But if you've just run out of your favorite food, why don't you try something new? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Look in your closet and find a shirt. Put on your pants or grab a skirt. But if you just can't get your shoes to tie, give it another try. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Let's go potty, try just in case. Look in the mirror and wash your face. But if your hair is looking kind of wild, why don't you try another style? Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Zip up your jacket and grab your lunch. Put on your backpack, then give big hugs! But if it's raining outside and it's getting on your head, wear something else instead. Let's get ready. Let's get ready. Let's get ready for the day. And if our plans don't seem to go just right, there's always another way. Every time I want to cross the street I stop and look both ways, both left and right. Before I can safely move my feet I've got to wait, wait for a green light! If the red light is flashing. If the green light is shining! Look both ways to stay safe. Just stop, look, and cross. That's the way! Every time I want to cross the street I wait at the crosswalk, by the stoplight. Gonna cross the road, count to the beat. Until it's my turn, I just hang tight! If the red light is flashing. If the green light is shining. Look both ways to stay safe Just stop, look, and cross. That's the way! Every time I want to cross the street I stop and look both ways, both left and right. Before I can safely move my feet I've got to wait, wait for a green light. If the red light is flashing. If the green light is shining. Look both ways to stay safe. Just stop, look, and cross. That's the way! Look both ways to stay safe. Oh yeah! Make sure to look both ways! [music]