This is the world's greatest wheelchair. Not only can it spin in place but it can also go both up On top of that, there are some additional features train horns, spinners Because all the features came from the brain of this kid it was the His name is Cash. And Cash is quite possibly You fell down? Yes! Let me see you recover. Get up. Push off. Push off your wheel. Now push off your bed right there. There you go. That's what I'm saying boy! I could help you, but you wouldn't know You know what I'm saying?! Yes! Sometimes in life you fall. But guess what? What? You just pull yourself back up. Yeah. Come on. Come on. Get up there. Get up there, get up there. And it doesn't take long to realize who are there for every challenge. When you get on that lip, you push with everything you've got. Ready. Go. Go Pop your wheelie. Pop your wheelie. There you go. Go, Go. Don't fall back. Don't fall back. Go! Push. Push! Both arms. Push, push, push. And especially there for every triumph Push. Quit rocking it There you go. There you go. THERE YOU GO! don't go back- There you GO BOY!!! Yeah ha ha ha!! That's how you get it buddy! That's how you get it baby! In fact, Cash's story begins pregnancy ultrasound and were told his spinal cord because he had a condition And even though doctors said pregnancies like these were terminated Cash's parents refused. And so that refusal to give up, despite since the very beginning. and whether he's fostering his diehard or just challenging himself by ripping out more pull-ups You're a dawg! you quickly realize he just doesn't waste time with excuses. So once I learned about Cash, and resilience, I knew I had to make my way out to Texas to surprise him by building the wheelchair And since the key to a good surprise we got right to work. This makes me want to pen a rock ballad I've now transformed into Roger It's very nice to meet you. All right, here we go. Well, hello there. Hi. My name's Roger. I'm from the wheelchair Supply company. It's nice to meet you I'm doing research. How do you like this wheelchair? It's good. There's no motor on that thing? Haha THESE! Okay! Roger clearly had Such as wheelchair dimensions. Wheelchair disembarkment. Holy cow. How to bomb a rainmaker. Ohhh! Yeah! Wow! And yes, even proper wheelchair motor Three and a half. Not even Steven Curry Stephen Curry Yeah, right there. Steven Curry. He is Stephen. Stephen! That's right He's good at shooting a - Three! Oh three! What are you talking about? Is there anything about you wish that it had Like a cup holder That makes sense. And if he just stopped there this could have been my least What if it could go upstairs? (gasps) That would be cool. But we didn't. And it didn't take much Nerf guns. Cool, glowing lights. Yeah, every day. Chocolate. What's your favorite color? Purple. Would you want a train horn? Yes! A CLOWN HORN! Or what if it was like a toot? Huh? Like somebody passed gas? Or just stick with clown horn... Yeah, of course. That's poor taste. And with that, Roger decided Seeing as Cash had already given us we'd have to compress down And so, a few months later, it was time. Just got word. They are 5 minutes away. It's time to transform back into Roger, for the big reveal. And Roger was practically my alter ego Oh crud. Kind of wanted one, though. Let's frickin do this. The family arrived was Roger's wheelchair supply company. And of course, it's designed to But to Cash FISHES! Nothing is boring. Oh he's huge. I want to smile, but I can't. It was time If he could just keep his face on. My mustache is falling off but there was no time to readjust. Wait... Oh she just found one of the cameras I just got to go. Dad. There's a cam- Roger! Well hello there. Good to see you again How are you? Good. That giant fish over there! You're seeing a big fish? It looks like a lizard. It was time for Roger to come clean. I'm just going to give you Yes! I also have something else to tell you. Okay. This isn't my real hair. What! This isn't even my real mustache. What? This isn't my real goatee. Huh? My name is actually Mark. I make YouTube videos. I saw your boxes. You've seen CrunchLabs boxes? Yeah! We have even cooler stuff here Ready to have some fun today? Let's go! And Cash wasted no time Whoa. in kicking off a self-guided tour. There he goes. Welcome to CrunchLabs Yeah! Flex those biceps. You remember how big they were? Probably 19 inches. Whoa a bit of inflation! Come in here, pal. Whoa. This is the world's largest Nerf gun. This is like a pool Aw what are you getting? Basketball You went right to that And the tour was going great First try. Give me some. until we hit a snag I think it'd be fun The only thing is we'll have to go up My dad will have to carry me. Wouldn't it be cool if your wheelchair Yes. Can I show you something? Okay, I want you to stay. Move that bookshelf. One, two, three. Move that bookshelf! Okay you stay here, pal! May I proudly present. Oh my gosh This 4 foot tall gyroscopically with two self-balancing wheels AKA The Wheelchair of Cash's Dreams Who's driving that? A ghost? A ghost, I guess. Don't move. Donut! Donut! You see the back what it says? Cash Cab! because that right there? that's yours. (gasps) Wanna go test it out? Yeah, Yes! With safety always coming first it was important we started slow. You ready to go forward? Yes Ooh. Good. Mama I was about to run you over! I know! But before long, Okay. All right, all right, all right. Easy! Now in addition to the custom purple under-lighting and the blinged out wheel-spinners sporting the colors we cooked up three different modes by simply sliding a different module down The first was party mode, a linear actuator raising the disco ball while the green button The second mode is for the days because now the green button Here we go. 3... 2... 1... This mode also includes a P.A. system. You roll up to school and you want to let Got a new wheelchair! Yeah! as well as a soundboard so we could play any custom sound, which But that's not all. Push that one. Awww that's low-brow. Sorry. That should not be on there. But then don't catch yourself sleeping a custom 3D printed Hey, sis!. Bring me a drink of water! What's the magic word? Please! There you go. And that cupholders He could pair with the contents of CHOCOLATE! And as for Cash's verdict on Feastables? You got lucky, Jimmy He likes it. And so before I introduce him to the third appropriately named Battle Mode I had a demonstration for him. Ready to see it go upstairs? Yes!! I've seen this done, but I wanted to do it for the first time myself just in case Safety first. Okay, now all I do is and when I do that, a set of tracks a chain drive are lowered into place And then you just tank-tread your way up Peace You're going! You're going! for the most ridiculous including the fart speaker and I'm going up the stairs, buddy. Check me out. I want to shout out who spent the last decade to make a stair-climbing self-balancing Buddy, I did it! You made it! They've had so many setbacks just like my buddy Cash. I could help you, but you wouldn't know But also, just like my buddy Cash, and ultimately succeed And to me, that's I got my Nerf gun. WHOA that is big! In fact, it's why I named the toy company of teaching kids it's because things are supposed to crunch All right, here I go. Not gonna lie, but, you know what, And so if I can get them to do more and build something through those setbacks, as I talk about then the principles will really sink in. So if you want to have a ton of fun in your brain' so you can be It works! head to CrunchLabs.com or use the link in the video description. It's a little nerve wracking at first. I'm not going to lie, but then you get and now I'm back down. Is that cool? Yeah. While I was coming back, I can't be shooting the Nerf gun And that is exactly where the third Battle mode, where the toggle switch now that activates two 150 kilogram swinging yourself into action at which point It goes on, yeah. Then when you're done, Okay abort! Abort! Whoa. Like nothing ever happened. And so, like any good engineers would... Starting line up for the Battle: Daddy Me And Mark Rober! Heck yess! We put the whole system Let's go! Let's go! Yeah! Okay, okay, pause pause! Ow! Let's go yes. We won! Yes! We won! Did one of you guys hit me in the ear? Charli... Was that you? Can you handle any more surprises? Yes. YES! Okay! Okay!! Come over here. And this was hands-down the biggest surprise so far introducing the Cash Cannon. Because the Cash Cannon which foreshadows but by using the iPad on his chair he's instantly connected to a from anywhere in the world giving him the ability to remotely aim the Cash Cannon So whenever he's and he wants some street cred with an overclocked Nerf cannon, Ah! Cash! No! that's just the thing he can do, now. Man, CrunchLabs, is not going Unbeknownst to cash, hidden right under But before I unveil that, we took a little break, Jump! had a little lunch and did a little science. Whoa! Ten out of ten. And that earned science bob more And how about a round of Nerf guns? This is what you do for ten out of ten? And not only can this off the beaten path and easily slide into the back of a car But it has a tall mode which enables you or finally dunk on your dad. Yeah! Let's go! And so as I let him get in ahead of the final massive his dad let me in on a little secret. He wants to be the greatest basketball player there ever was whether that's Paralympian or able bodied. And while admittedly that seemed insanely I realized if anyone was going to do it, The motto for him, from us is &quot;My resilience is greater than my resistance&quot;, so we don't really have any resistance because if there is any we're going to atleast attempt. If we fail okay but we'll get right back at it. Well buddy, I got to tell you, you know how I said that Yes. We actually have one more surprise. Remember when I was at your house, Stephen Curry and Lebron So, sis open the pouch, I looked up to see who- Tickets to a Warriors game!? Who else are they playing? The Lakers!! The Lakers! It's today!! It's today! So after we leave we need to go to this game! Thank you Mr. Mark! All right, buddy! Let's go! C'mon! So we headed into the arena, so Cash could attend his first real life I want that disco ball. And we were turning heads left and right. Whoa! Dude! Hey I need one of those. But the biggest reaction when he saw his favorite player CURRY! CURRY! Oh there he is! Curry! Curry! And sitting next to Cash was by far the most fun I've ever had And not just because in the end... He's coming to get it! Let's go! Steph triumphed over LeBron And as we were leaving the game I realized Cash turns heads because he's one of those rare humans with who openly embraced the tough challenges And so as we said goodbye, I found myself I could experience his incredible and hopeful he'd go easy My favorite thing about this wheelchair at Scewo used the superpower to literally will something into existence that is now improving so many lives And as it says on the box, my goal with CrunchLabs That means you know how to think critically and break a problem down Thinking like an engineer makes you a better soccer player or piano practicer or math studier because just like Cash you're resilient and you know the importance before you finally hit that breakthrough. So the way it works is every month and when you open it, there's a link to a video but I teach you all the juicy physics And the best part of all is each month To slip in a platinum ticket. CrunchLabs! then you're coming out right here to CrunchLabs to design So if you want to unlock the superpower whatever you can dream up just go to Crunchlabs.com and order your build box subscription today. Thanks for watching.