Picture yourself on the hunt After scrolling through finally land on one that That's until you see the experience, necessary of skills you need to be In 2023, 42% of employees job opportunities due to a qualifications or Lacking enough of the right credentials and or among the biggest barriers The job market today is job market we've seen over Many job seekers don't know and feel that they're that, on paper, look like a Meanwhile, companies say first. There has been a shift over skills-based hiring, with about employees experience degrees. 46% of companies plan to first half of 2024, because the required skills. 79% of workers in hiring experience, and past valuable than credentials I think right now we see and trying to identify what really necessary to do the hiring today, and to be that they will be hiring years. So why are job requirements what implications does it and the economy as a whole? The US labor market has because overall economic We had a big bout of interest rates to slow down to catch up. As a result, down as well. Hiring rates in the US have 2024, following heights pandemic. Total job 15% at the end of 2023 There was one open job for LinkedIn in 2022. By the following year, that every two active When there are more looking for jobs and less market becomes more But for employers, that talent. If a job says that it 100 people apply and many well, of course the the person with the most We also are in a high where companies have less they're less prepared to They're only hiring where and they're not being that There's another reason why. And that is about the has changed. Employers recruiters. 2023 saw a sharp decline in recruiters with several Google, Apple and Amazon number of recruiters and department. The recruiters were the kind understood the job market, go to the line managers and need five years experience. With those people gone, hiring requirements that aren't experts on this team, what do you think you well, it'll be nice to have Well, somebody who has five be great, too. And so the then they can't find And they say, oh, there's There's a problem in the And they don't raise the So you're trying to fill pay. But now you're more experience, more years Guess what? Hard to do. As companies grow more said quality of hire will 2024 through 2029. 83% of chief human resource talent with specialized new employees than they did What we're seeing on employers, skills are 73% of recruiters say that they're trying to source know what skills they have, What employers want is actually do the work. The other thing is they exactly that job before and quite similar. Hiring for entry-level and dropped from 79% in 2022 to Typically, when the labor workers are hit a bit We don't have real all. Every employer wants already worked someplace Entry-level jobs only jobs posted on ZipRecruiter and just 1.9% of all jobs not require experience at Over a third of employers Gen Z college graduates in with more than half saying unprepared for the found that more than half from a two year or four for an entry-level position unqualified. Many entry-level job seekers 22. In order to get job, but in order to get experience, and that is a find yourself in. 57% of general job seekers said that a lack of skills from applying for a job 84% of unemployed workers more opportunities to learn The United States does not enables us to support the training that workers need order to advance. Federal government spends control over education and There are some pretty big federal government pays where the action is. It's And those have been And in many states they're You know, less and less OECD countries, on average, training their workers in In comparison, the US spent job training. One of the reasons we may training in the US as we that we rely on the private training. Employers have largely given compared to where they were They're not developing They're looking outside to promote them from within. And there's a good reason Our labor market in the very flexible. You can pour employee as an employer, two months or three months. And so there are market for employers to workers, especially after so many people were There's also a huge mismatch have and the skills So I think we have a huge the United States with lots studying subjects for which opportunities and very, skills in trades and very, very high demand. Right now, there are more degrees than there are jobs hiring with that At the same time, there's able to access the kind of that enable them to get education than a high education than a four year Believe it or not, it's a those skilled trades than The union training programs smaller proportion of the used to be. So if you want places, the community choice. And that becomes program. Community cost that much, but if you for it, it's a burden. Jobs that require skills backbone of the economy. We saw this during the We see it today still with supply chain. And the businesses that creating jobs in our growing local economies. It could cost the US as much upskilling doesn't catch up workplace. In order to keep having in the US, we need to do productive, and we need to edge in the global economy. In order to do that, it's upskill and be able to technologies that are us stay competitive and be Despite the challenges in are turning towards A study from 2023 found employers use to test their job knowledge and abilities, saying those scores are more important, than like resumes and Skills based hiring is when candidates based on what necessarily their pedigree The idea is simply, could we what skills you need and actually have those skills The biggest impact can be that require no degrees. Major companies like publicly announced their workers without a degree. In January 2024, 52% of US not mention any formal from 48% in 2019. The share of US job year degrees fell from 2024. For reference, just associate's, bachelor's, degree as of 2022. We're seeing businesses in a hope of expanding the they can hire. Skills-based hiring has reducing mis hires, as well while increasing employee 86% of candidates also said helped them secure their But whether it actually is up to debate. A study from 2024 found that had increased their without a BA degree by changes to their hiring. In 2023, skills-based opportunities for less than It takes time for a culture through the organization to so the top of an thing, but the actual interviewers and recruiters different. Experts say solving the US requires the role of It should be a public policy of young people who are want to do things and can't And we have employers who, mistakes. They're just sort of lower-level jobs somebody and develop them little bit. And they don't need to be we're spending dollars. It needs to be relatively companies come together and folks within one metro state, are going to be kind of workers that they For current job seekers, prepare their applications current employers. I think the advice on this is what employers want to work before? Right? And so that means can I can do this work, even if or getting an internship kind of work I want to do. And if I can do that, my job are just much better. Increasingly, there are lots affordable, convenient, programs, many of which component. There are also you can get experience You can often get jobs just candidate, and sometimes to build up that experience So don't feel out of hope. There are ways to gain experience that can be