- In my last video, I told of scary situations I One was a stalking incident where the man's delusions that we should get married despite the fact that we had never talked. Another was a stranger as I was camping there alone. Someone had really gone out bushwhacking through the forest and going up over a mountain. Anyway, the fact that these within a month of each and I left my property. So right now I wanna go from my land to figure out what's next. Today I just need to do some hard thinking and come up with a plan. For now though, just I left for my camping trip and realized I'd forgotten Yes, just the cable, and had to drive back A minor inconvenience Okay, let's get going. You know, this is one of those things that nobody tells you about that a tiny, stupid little $2 cable could sabotage your entire shoot. I've got the cable now, (upbeat music) I think one of the most confusing things about this whole stalking situation is that it would be very And although something like this can make me rethink it will not change me. Okay, I think this is my spot for tonight. Let's back up, unpack and make a fire. I will not let anyone change or how I live my life in joy and freedom. I am so far from being a victim, I might as well be on a different planet. Yeah, I'm a fighter. It's so beautiful out here. This is like the real countryside. Like when you picture the countryside, this is what you picture, right? Forests, a little pond, Vilk, no, no, no, no, don't shake off, don't shake off (laughs). This is it, oh God, I'm I have a lot of thinking to do tonight, but I'm so glad I came (jacket rustling) (zip ritzing) We better go make that fire. (gentle music) (gentle music continues) (twigs snapping) (lighter clicking) This is the worst kind that comes from every How are you supposed to light a fire? Ah, how, how is it coming from everywhere? Stop, stop! I don't have any fire starter, which might make this a than I had anticipated, but (gentle music) (fire crackling) (sticks thumping) Okay, I think the fire So I'm gonna set up camp. I don't know if I ever showed you guys how I actually sleep but it's a pretty neat setup. It's very modest. It's nothing like Odyssey, So let me show you what I do. You know, over the years a lot &quot;Do you feel safe on the road? Do you feel safe traveling? Like I would be so scared.&quot; You know, a lot of people I've never really been scared on the road, I've never been really Whoop, hello camera, what happened there? Not really, because I've Like when you're on the move, or it's quite hard, right? But it's the moment you stop moving, that's when you become a target. And I didn't really think about I didn't think that I or that someone would wanna find me. It just didn't cross my mind. Like I don't understand why You know what I mean? So to now have people trying to find me, as I just feels like this is you know what I mean? Not the traveling. I think there comes a where you crave a little You know, your 20s are and then eventually you get a dog and you start craving And I really craved that But given everything with the stalking situations, I am just double guessing myself. I'm just trying to figure out You know, did I make a Was that a mistake or was it a mistake to share I was busy talking to the camera and I did everything Let me try again. Vilk's bed stays inside, it goes down, the other one goes down too. Yes, good, and now we'll put on the cover. (hands patting) Okay, wait, I'll help you, (Eva grunting) Yes, that's a good boy. (gentle music) Okay, almost ready. So this is where we sleep. A massive thank you to Jackery, the sponsor of today's video, whose products I have been genuinely using over the last three and a half Have I done a single road Nope, do I think this is essential kit for anyone who goes over landing? Yes, the Jackery Explorer 1,000 is this, and this is honestly probably one of the best portable And if you get the Solar you get the power station and Let me get these out, crazy light. A few years ago, this would This Jackery is stronger than ever before with a 1,500 watt output, which is 50% more than So even if your car isn't like a super kitted out over landing rig, you can still use your Jackery to power pretty much all of your devices. I use it to charge and run a whole bunch including my fridge, my camera, my drone, my phone. It's also got super fast charging and you can charge it from This device is not a gimmick, It's got about 4,000 lifespans, which means that you can for 10 years. I always have one of my and the other one stays on It's an amazing tool to use if there's any kind of home emergency, if you need backup power anything like that, this to be there for you. And you know what the best part is? You can also use it as a stool. (laughs) Actually, no, the So until the 8th of December, Jackery are running So you can get a huge discount More details in the link in the description box of this video. All right, let's get back to it. (gentle music) It's a very strange thing or even to have a social In a way, when you sign up to do this, yeah, you automatically lose but you're also still just a human being and you do have the right to feel safe. You have the right to protect yourself, and you do have the to the degree that you want it. Public people are not public property. And I know that some people but I strongly believe to share their life with us online, we should always respect their boundaries, whatever they are. And I guess I don't need to explain that trespassing on someone's land in order to find them there definitely crosses a I mean, just have a in the United States treats You know, sometimes you think that you have everything figured out, like you've planned everything out, you got the thing going and then just something hits you like a ton of bricks out of This is kind of what You know, I thought I I thought I hadn't shared too much, and I thought I honestly didn't And now I'm just trying Like, do I sell my property and buy something else somewhere else so I don't have to worry about it? Do I just take a breather? Do I hire security? Do I install a very Do I build a wall? (laughs) I don't know what to do. And I've just been so busy and think about it now. You know, this is a and I'm not taking it lightly. (sighs) Yeah, and you know what? One of the weirdest is that the people who have been causing are probably watching this video. So if you are one of the people or have come to find me in any way, shape, or form, please don't. Please stop, it's awful, I don't want it. Just don't, I do not want it, thank you. (bright music) I keep forgetting it's when it gets pretty much It's like not even 6:00, it is 5:40 and I'm gonna go inside and just lock myself Hey buddy, you wanna go inside? Good boy. Yeah, this is a pretty tight squeeze. (laughs) Take a look. This is my pillow, this is There's a bit of space here. We do fit, just. (Eva grunting) The reason I really love is because I feel so safe. It's like a pod, like a It's so tiny, you can drive Got my puppy right here. No one and nothing can Good morning, good morning, Hello, hi, good morning, good Did you, did you sleep well (laughs)? Yeah, you ready, you ready? Okay. It was really nice to be here, just to feel kind of And I think I've come up with a plan. I think I know what I'm gonna do. Sometimes I wake up and that these things happened this year, and sometimes I wake up and I feel like I wanna Back, back, spin, twist. So I'm gonna have to pick a lane, and the lane I pick is Don't worry, I'm not planning but you know, I'm a fighter Fuck fear (laughs)! I'm not gonna let you scare me. I'll be just fine! I don't have to fear anyone or anything! Vilk, I've got you. I'm gonna go and live my I have no fear, woo, Just really needed to Feeling much better now. (inspirational music) (fire crackling) First of all, I'm gonna take legal action. In fact, I've already taken legal action against one individual. So I'm gonna take this every single time that it happens. Restraining orders and That's one very practical thing. So I have been thinking about whether I should sell the property. I mean, I know I just bought it, so how much would that suck? And I've decided that I will As much as I don't wanna sell it, if these things keep happening, I shouldn't get too attached to it, is basically what I'm saying. And if a sign comes about that I can swap it for something So that's another big one. I think this is what Buddhists mean when they say that earthly So I'm gonna try not to get attached. You know, there are many I don't have to end up right there in that very corner of the earth. Another plan that I had that is that I was supposed to spend on my property camping, I would be like to camp in Am I gonna do that now given No, so I have to find a I'm just not comfortable staying where like it's so dark and I just don't think that's a wise idea. So I am gonna have to figure Gonna take some time in December And then hopefully in January, I can get going with a new expedition. So I have some ideas. If you have ideas, let me know. (gentle music) (upbeat music) I think the thought and feeling is that I'm not a victim and I will not be I wanna live with the conviction that most people in the world are good, and most of you watching, the will agree that everybody to feel safe in their own home, on their own land, living their life. So I am not a victim. I will fight people like these and I will not let them scare me into living any differently. If you've ever experienced and I know that a lot of you have, just know that I am and you are not alone, okay? Don't let the bastards grind you down. (upbeat music)