June 10, 40, German troops The French armies are routed. Declared an open city, The German advance is dazzling. Fleeing from the terrible breakthrough, 2 million Parisians In these columns, flowing back to who knows where. families carrying supporting their old people. Carrying the few values The arrival of the Germans, however, is not Going against the tide three men head for the capital. Two are German spies. The third is French. His name is Henri Chamberlin. He's a convict, a thug. In barely a year, he will be one of the leaders A special kind of font the most dangerous criminals of the time. Arrest of Jews and patriots. Thefts, tortures, assassinations. We are in June 1940, the underworld has chosen its side. Henry Lafont, Who is Henry Lafont? He is born He's a poor kid. He has an unhappy childhood quite inevitably on the way He is spotted very quickly. which leads him to a penal colony Henry Lafont, at the time of the breakup he spent almost half his life And he is precisely incarcerated the fall of the Republic, when the German armies At that time, he was in prison in Paris, in advance German by making as the Germans In June 40, he was imprisoned what is called the fifth column, with whom he will escape. And this is where his life will change. Because he who was not a petty crook condemned to marginality, ultimately unremarkable. This meeting he makes with these agents since he is going to go back to Paris with He is the child of the territory, to go up towards the capital to reach These people are going to introduce him It is from that moment The Gestapo, which will, over time, assume a political police function, and this political police of all the forces that threaten The Germans are not numerous enough use of auxiliaries That's what Hitler theorized of indigenous participation. These relays, of course, we will find them to become traitors, who have not And of course, people in the middle They are not politicized people, these are people who do not act They live on the margins of society, they don't share fate Already at the start, they position themselves Obviously, pass from enemy finally the step is easily crossed He will work with them, His proposal is quite simple, he will serve as informer, he will do What is interesting is that he &quot;Little crooks, These are people who have convictions if you give them some powers, and above all the possibility of making they are people who will serve you From July 1940, it's been a month since he He presented himself at the prison of Fresnes, and he demands the release and quite extraordinary, which is explained by the spirit of the times. The prison administration which is not an official process, and which is done like that amicably. Lafont arrives at Fresnes prison, he shows a police card, he is and he demands the release of prisoners. Of these 30 prisoners, people who train what we can people who are petty crooks, but which are very interesting. These people, once scattered in Paris, to the one who now arises all kinds of business and then they go in the bars, they will be able Jean Rossi, pimp, racketeer Cazauba, known as &quot;Daix&quot;, Chave, known as &quot;ember nose&quot;, Estebeteguy, known as &quot;The Basque&quot; To be able to become what the Germans Of course, you have to prove Lafont is not a n***, But if he wants to be able to enjoy he has to show that he is We are just after the episode The German top brass in the capital because Lafont once again We are facing the German army, respectful of a certain order is on the verge of being arrested that the Germans would like on a service manager who took refuge in France in the free zone, Adrien Estebeteguy, known as &quot;The Basque&quot;, who lived for a long time in Bordeaux Toulouse, which is precisely the city The story seems implausible. He takes his car he learns from members where Lambrecht is hiding. He hits he puts it in his trunk It's that simple. But things seem to be going well For the Germans, the effect is exactly listening to this story. They don't come back. This arrest of Lambrecht has 2 consequences. The first for Lafont, becomes an interesting character who say to themselves, we still have And above all, the most and for services Lambrecht will be mistreated and his arrest will bring even hundreds of members of the Belgian networks We see the harmfulness of a man like Lafont We see that a man Here France News! The news of all Around Marshal Petain. The country finds itself. Rediscovered with the new spirit, the continuity of its history. And when, in front of the leader, the thousands of whose simplicity doubles its greatness. When countless voices will say, &quot;We swear it is Petain who will say, the heavy load &quot;I renew the oath The great declarations, the oaths In the shadow of ancient heroes, Seats are free for The French environment is about to live For Lafont and his accomplices, it is the time of impunity. The Germans behave, but all these people or these chiefs are They have a kind of insane respect, until the disgust of the law, and therefore we cannot The bad deeds of the attacks From entryism we are going to load parallel pharmacies. This is how the Lauriston Street Gestapo and it differs from all not so much by its violence, not so much by villainy, of the people who made it up, at the head of this office there is a mobster, Chamberlin, so Lafont, And not just any policeman, And this Bonny was, at the time we treated him first 1934, the crook Alexander Stavisky of the Municipal Credit of Bayonne. The scandal escalates into a state affair the fascist leagues It was Inspector Bonny who, allows the investigation to progress For the latter, Bonny is corrupt, there are He was revoked and he ascended, like most a specialized private police station divorce, adultery... And for him, it's his marshal's baton He is corrupt And he will bring to the Gestapo an efficiency that none The Germans have a plan. When they introduce Lafont to Bonny, The idea is to combine on the one hand the thug who has connections who showed his allegiance and on the other side the rigor Bonny, he's the man which will create an alphanumeric file, who will take care of all the stewardship He is the one who will take care of the cash register It is also the man who will participate He knows how to question very well, This meeting between Bonny and Lafont and encouraged by the Germans, so much so that they will form a pair. They are going down in posterity The Gestapo rue Lauriston, called Carlingue, even if Bonny is only Lafont's second Recruitment of members won't stop Lafont will recruit all We see an increase in power. worrying, real in the sense then given We must mention a few. The beautiful Abel, Bibil, Buffalo Bill. His nicknames say something about it. Buffalo Bill, he shoots everything. he is still armed. as extremely dangerous, Don't apprehend him, wait for reinforcements. He's a very dangerous person He is a close friend of Pierre Loutrel, who will go down in the history of the great He knows Jo Attia, He knows Georges Boucheseiche intimately, He is obviously a friend of Emile Buisson, who will become public enemy number one. With Abel Danos, we are immediately and we are immediately Another very important character he is an absolutely considerable character who is considered by the police report That is to say, this man has reached which makes him one of its leaders. He is considered one Jean Sartol, of course, will learn that rue Lauriston, that there is a leader and he will put just to be able reversing of course, that he owes to Lafont. The day after, - It's him ! - In uniform. - No, he dresses like that for - I pass the towel. You come with the money, we erase everything. Look at me when I talk to you! - If you try to pass me again... A misunderstanding, I know. Your g****! Go to checkout during the week, - It's sunny, let's go. Boss, sorry, I would like Leon Jabinet. Leo for the ladies. We shared the same cell in Fresnes, What did you fall for? It's a violent one, Plus, it's a little cracked. Currently, he is in poverty. - You know the price, it's 40000! So what is it to be It means first to have, the box. He is a very particular Ausweis, on which it is written should in no way be worried German authorities... But he can even That is to say, he can whether they are policemen, soldiers or otherwise. It is, secondly, the possibility Even the German gendarmerie, there's no more gas, to have cars And then there's the possibility modern weapons, when it's not Berettas. Opposite are the official police officers. They have run out of gas for their cars. The French or Manufrance, And then they are like all the French, they are steeped in fear, when it's not who say even with a Corsican accent. German font. Gestapo. Now they can go burglary. It will be a search. They can go flying. They can go racketeering, it will simply be a bet as if a record had been drawn up. We are here in an inversion of values, which more generally corresponds the moment of a moral collapse. From the Arctic Ocean either on a background of nearly 3000 km, German forces have taken position. The fight for defense The greatest offensive that has ever been Soon, despite the resistance of borders are based In France too, the war continues. A secret war in which For Lafont, it is the time of triumph. Dominator, he knows how to be obeyed, His audacity and his charisma, will allow him Lafont, this little mobster becomes one of because it has connections with Lafont becomes someone important. He who knew becomes a man It's quite amazing when you He frequents Bousquet, he frequents Amedee Bussiere, And all these people Sometimes it's trivial, can find food for them, For example, Karl Bomelburg, goes through Lafont to feed. Knochen accepts gifts from Lafont. Knochen who is still number 2 one of the most powerful characters He regularly gets gifts delivered, Laval comes to him to obtain the release Because Lafont's ultimate goal is To be the most independent by rendering service even if it is only provisional, it shows and the interest in leaving it We are at a moment in the history of France, which authorizes these connections, familiar with the Chairman of the Board, but it's obviously one We are witnessing a reversal Values, where are they in all this? This system must be depicted. The armistice which was signed by expected that France would deliver There were quotas that were set France pays, absolutely extravagant sums, which did not correspond since France had to pay as occupancy costs. 20 millions The Germans will very quickly be by reinjecting it into the channels goods that will allow him, to run its economy at full speed For this, they must find the stocks offer attractive prices and offer them their wares. The black market that we describe they are almost the instigators. The Germans will use thanks to the considerable sums to seize the national wealth. National wealth that goes And in this galaxy, you're gonna have which have a semi-official existence, which are fed by these resources, sometimes official, and which allow Germany to buy which also guarantees intermediaries By intervening in these processes, French Gestapo agents Worrying intermediaries voracious predators on the prowl For them, it's business time, and easy money. The role entrusted to the Bonny-Lafont group, it will be first because we are here in a who may be tempted to defraud Secondly, their action will we will ask them to go and find the stocks and get in between Between a salesman who sometimes but Lafont is convincing. A seller and then the final buyer, These are very simple traffics nothing is asked of the seller, nor his So we imagine all the fauna that No down payment, no inventory. At the end of the year, souls and in the Les Halles district, Here the hungry will find and also a little moral comfort. At that time, the queues get longer Food is hard to get. The French must go through these Gestapo constitute islands of prosperity. In the midst of this misery, these groups and obviously first and foremost, lives in tremendous opulence. It's a time absolutely They are having a feast Rue Lauriston, we party after party. We are really here Those people who were thugs, condemned to marginality, finally all of a sudden, Lafont, multiply the adventures, has adventures with some of the most some models, in particular There are also starlets who brings starlets The artists are going to slum Tino Rossi is coming. That doesn't make him a collaborator, but someone who participates without fully realizing or the dangerousness of the people he of this system of perpetual feasts. The cabarets are open, working they are reserved for a certain clientele who The brothels are turning Lafont and his men frequent them, when they are not The cabarets of Pigalle and Montmartre These years are, for these men years that can be summed up as we have fun and the day, we sell You still have to be aware Jean Sartol, the mobster recognized post-war to have more than 1000 apartments, 1000 apartments in three years. We're almost an apartment This man is going to celebrate it's going to be a big party and some German officers to celebrate There, we still become aware of the in which these fortunes are made totally of illegal origin, And of course, in order to be able you also have to do And so there is a kind of balance, who will be in the Gestapo between business and We can do business When we gonna stop usually they have big We pick them up at that time. When we are going to intervene in a rich Jew's house followed by the occupier at the time, everything is taken This system works well. Because these agents They have dozens of French people at their which don't cost them a penny. When they arrest someone, And those wolves, the Germans, they make them watchdogs. This pack will hunt down the resisters, The crooks become policemen. Strange policemen who intervene Bullying, abuse of power, violence. It is the time of repression. Torture has always been used to force people to stop talking, it was a torture that was not It was about beatings or beatings. Sometimes the water torture was used, we took the prisoner, generally filled It's also part of the process. and immersed it in water It's extremely exhausting And in general, fainting and to awaken the prisoners, they slipped between their teeth, Faced with my stubbornness not to confess, For 1h30, they tortured me My testimony having been deemed insufficient, they put me through a second We are in a pattern of torture which and which reaches paroxysms, which are terrifying, extremely shocking. Some French prisoners explained, after being arrested by the men handed over to the German authorities, which they only by the French of the Gestapo. One of the phenomena of torture is what the Gestapo was looking for. Initially, they wanted to obtain a confession, because they were extremely They needed written confessions, recorded, noted, and then expeditious justice after confessions, That we want to torture but I believe that in the case it was a kind of will Lauriston Street excelled in wrestling So, we introduce, we do and people who obviously go To take well-known networks, Marco Polo, which is a resistance group, Fall many times, three times defense of France and also, suffered arrests and huge falls, which is also arrested The Germans have always been very vigilant It's because they take than &quot;Defence of France&quot;, which is of captive France, You are going to have a police chase, that is to say that individuals will be or at their place of work. Men of the Bonny-Lafont gang in a bookstore called bookstore which is the mailbox i.e. where they deposit I had little papers I'm going to take my father's bicycle. I leave quietly, I pose and then I say to myself: &quot;It's funny, the door is not closed as usual.&quot; I don't know exactly &quot;Should we come in or not?&quot; If we are afraid because a door it's not worth wanting It is better to stop and as you are not I open the door and there is someone I don't know if it was Bonny or Lafont, and which take me directly What is the result of this operation? About fifty members are arrested, 25 are arrested at the wishes of Louis XII at their place of work or at home. I spent the night of July 20, 1943 and I only got out And there, to leave by train for and to leave My dear friends, for the fourth time, France celebrates a wartime Christmas. Christmas, Feast of the Nativity. And death hangs over the whole world. And France suffers every day new crimes Despite so many disasters, I keep my faith Once again I ask you to the peril of death that our country would run, if upon him fell Incantations will do nothing. The bad wind feared by Petain blows The maquis swell. Lafont, the vulture imagines The hoodlum dreams of being a general. End of 43 the buying office system loses becomes less profitable for the Germans. We observe a shift. Many of these accredited were sometimes in repression, will switch to an activity that is to say carry out very concrete - Colonel Knochen, our friend Lafont, who has the energy and the experience in this kind of fight, a brigade made up of ex-tirailleurs equipped and trained, with the mission to restore calm - Our only objective is freedom in order to allow the collection of this to the needs of the German people. Dear friend Lafont, If in, say, three months, exercise is not safe, we will apply to French peasants to the mujiks in Russia. And that is clear? Absolutely, Colonel. Don't beat yourself up over it, Lafont took a liking to power. He is a manager He has another ambition. He has the ambition to become a warlord. He has a big idea he has the idea of mobilizing the North African prisoners that the in an army corps, And obviously the Germans cannot the idea of a troupe that would come This is a poor population, which consists mainly bar boys. Among them are some pimps, There are also a few assassins. We understand why they get involved, in the North African Brigade, to also have a card and be And on this occasion, they join the Order On this occasion, Lafont obtains Bonny and the five section leaders For the gestapo artists on rue Lauriston, with the time of the defeats of the Reich A savage repression, without limits. They will carry fire to the provinces They will plunder. They will rape. It is the time of the massacres. We will mainly talk about his which initially was an activity will return to a logic of terror. Failing to attack the maquis, the region by terror. Every time they Threatening, stealing, looting and raping, There are a lot of rapes, of course. There's a savage horde They had arrested the mother, I haven't seen them since. They literally wallow and on the people they arrest. if they don't give them their savings, and they have the power. We are faced with deprived populations, There is the case for example in Tulle, with Monange and another member attacking a young man The young man was passing They want to stop it, and the young man resists, he does not want He is beaten very severely, before taking a dump They want to force him to get up he gets beat up again This young man was not a resistance fighter. We follow the path A path that is strewn with blood, of cries, of fear and who since we see that we have of summary executions carried out by people Here France Actualite, night of Monday 5 The Anglo-Americans land In the night, tons of steel where the German defenses are pounded. light units And here comes the dawn, out to sea, On August 13, 1944, the last elements It must be said that most were sickened by the way, not so disgusted by but more by feeling that the game was lost. &quot;The bombers, in turn, unleash that never prepared The cities, the whole country are &quot;coventrized&quot;, because you should never forget They who boasted of destroying everything Lafont and Bonny will try to escape. Their first idea Unfortunately for him, And he will live what he has He will fall on a dam which and he will ask the son to return to Paris by bike to to someone they believe a notorious trafficker a very ambiguous, very complex character, otherwise resistant, but not really, And Joseph Joanovici, Lafont and Bonny will send men to pick them. The Lafont trial will open very all members of rue Lauriston will be taken to court. We are still only 3 months We are in an instruction too fast and it frustrated the forces We feel that there has been especially very special And public opinion demanded heads. It was necessary to kill the traitors and there, So they go to trial They are 9 to be led to the peloton end of Lauriston Street. The French execute traitors At the courthouse in Paris, 2 traitors were sentenced to death for Lafont and Bonny you see The traitors were condemned to be composed of F.F.I. What a mistake to have shot these people so many things to tell us! They were shot as early as December 44, you imagine, I would say that maybe we that we didn't really want There might be but i think they knew A number of personalities who... Will have political roles or and are not entirely innocent, opposite, Lafont and the Gestapo As for the... Not the foot soldiers because who have murders network failures many retrained after the war. The passing of war happened through resistance. A large number who had sensed, and who had been hired for their professional specialty, including performance in public open air it can't be improvised. We needed killers A certain number, thanks to this bias will escape the police and justice and what is very interesting, have adopted habits of impunity, efficiency, weapon handling and they are the ones who will constitute It is difficult not to mention who will soon be known in the middle under the nickname of El Viejo, the old man. What is its role during the occupation He takes care of the teams that racketeer from Pigalle and Montmartre. Auguste Ricord goes through Spain thanks to his connections in the Corsican environment, it will become a central element or in any case of this set of networks increasingly called These are accusations And an accusation without proof, I have come to the end of the war I started doing French restaurants. The only thing you can blame me for is Have you been sentenced in France? I was convicted at a very young age. I was sentenced for carrying weapons, and attempted murder. Furthermore, other former Gestapists Pierre Loutrel, known as Pierrot le fou, will found after the war, the day after until 45-46, what was called multiplying robberies, attacks moreover, they have entered into legend. relatives, friends, We find Jo Attia who will become one of beginning of the 60s, we find we also find Georges Boucheseiche, who in the 1960s. a number of elders, but people who were who gave a hand. You will find them in almost every Fleeing the firing squad, most of the Gestapo mobsters They are found in Europe, Asia, This scattering lays the foundation Cigarettes, d****, guns, pr****. They are in all the traffic, getting dangerously close They intervene everywhere. If the ringleaders were put many are the suitors Many of those have passed At the school of Henri Lafont,