Hi everyone, and welcome to your Information My name is Konely Gonzalez and today I will that I am sure you would like to know. Just stay until the end of the video so won't As you might know, a data breach happens almost Digital forensics involves the preservation, interpretation of evidence from various storage It is not only limited to laptops, desktops, to data in transit which is transmitted across Forensics has evolved over decades through it has have become a very important part of To fight cybercrime and protect digital assets essential. What forensic tools do in these cases, is of evidence from electronic devices so they to put criminals behind bars. So, when doing a forensic investigation, for tools, to move faster and to be more productive. Here we will tell you 21 forensic investigator can start using right now. 1- Autopsy Autopsy will help you locate many of the open Kit. The Sleuth Kit is like a library of Unix- forensic analysis of computer systems. So Autopsy is the graphical user interface, search of the underlying volume, which helps of data in their investigation. It is actually used by law enforcement, military, what happened on a computer. But you can even use it to recover photos It has the following characteristics: functionalities by creating plugins. It is easy to use, specially because it offers And the tool is completely free, is maintained trainings or support services and by Basis 2- MAGNET Encrypted Disk Detector MAGNET Encrypted Disk Detector is a command-line check for encrypted volumes on a computer All you need to use MAGNET Encrypted Disk on May 12th, 2020, is a computer with Windows Yes, you will have to fill out a form at their a copy of MAGNET Encrypted Disk Detector. This is a very useful tool during incident does is check the local physical drives on MAGNET Encrypted Disk Detector supports TrueCrypt, It can totally help you to secure and preserve And of course, you won't have to pay anything 3- Wireshark Wireshark is an open source network capture what's happening in your network at a microscopic It runs on Linux, macOS, BSD, Solaris, some Windows. It is also used across many commercial and and educational institutions, and it can be network troubleshooting, analysis, software simply for education. Wireshark has a lot of features that can help A deep inspection of hundreds of protocols, powerful set of display filters, and it reads It can also read live data from Ethernet, and many others. It is also totally free and it works thanks around the globe. 4- MAGNET RAM Capture from Windows 10 systems that have Virtual Magnet RAM Capture is a tool from Magnet Forensics of a suspect's computer. Doing this it can allow you, during an investigation, is found in the memory. It actually has a small memory footprint, minimizing the data that is overwritten in The evidence that can be found in RAM with running on the system, network connections, passwords, decrypted files and keys, and so It also gives you the option to export the upload into other analysis tools. And it is also a free tool. 5- Network Miner Network miner is network forensic analyzer It can be used to detect OS, hostname, sessions, by PCAP file. NetworkMiner can be used by network administrators in a network. It is used to analyze or even capture packets and corresponding operating systems, names This forensic tool allows users to fish out presents the extracted information in a friendly Even a keyword search option is provided on It doesn't require installation, and iIt Today is used by companies and organizations teams and law enforcement, and it has no cost 6- NMAP NMAP or Network Mapper is one of the most It supports most of the operating systems, etc. It is used by network administrators to scan It can identify in which ports certain software as well as what services they are offering. Using it, you can check a single host or a It is usually used for auditing the security network mapping, maintenance and asset management, in a network. It also appears in a lot of movies that you 8, and many more, and is an excellent tool without having to pay anything for it. 7 RAM Capturer RAM Capturer by Belkasoft is also a tool that volatile memory. It is compatible with Windows OS and it doesn't a usb. Memory dumps can be a valuable source of volatile Mostly because in them you can sometimes find BitLocker, PGP Disk, or to account login credentials or even to some file sharing services. And Belkasoft Live RAM Capturer works even dumping system is on. Some other RAM acquisition tools can return a protected memory set, but Belkasoft Live image of this protected memory set without a free tool. 8-FAW is a tool to acquire web pages for forensic All you will require to install it and use RAM, and Windows 10. FAW will acquire web pages from any website It will allow you to acquire a whole, full it, depending on your needs. It lets you use side scrolling and a horizontal to be analyzed. It also has the following features: HTML source code of the web page and it can It is used by forensic communities around page, 9- HashMyFiles HashMyFiles will help you to calculate the It works on almost all the latest Windows By finding out the hash information on your integrity. This is a portable app, so installing it is You can store the tool on a USB flash drive It also has a user-friendly interface where The file queue displays the name, and hash of creation and modification, size, file and and attribute. HashMyFiles actually requires a low amount time. Unfortunately, there is no help file available but only from the visual point of view, but, https://www.nirsoft.net/utils/hash_my_files.html 10- CrowdResponse Response is a windows application by Crowd for incident response and security engagements. There is also no installer for this tool. You just simply unzip the contents of the from there. Additionally, the modules are all built into So no external or third-party tools are required. CrowdResponse is ideally suited to non-intrusive positioned across the network. Crowd Strike also has some other helpful tools route TCP/IP and DNS traffic through Tor. Shellshock Scanner, which will scan your network Heartbleed scanner, with which you can scan And as well as CrowdResponse, all these other 11- ExifTool ExifTool will help you to read, write, and types. It can read EXIF, GPS, IPTC, XMP, JFIF, GeoTIFF, ExifTool is Windows executable and there is So what ExifTool is, is a platform-independent for reading, writing and editing meta information It supports many different metadata formats many many other. It also supports maker notes of many digital Nikon, Nintendo, Samsung, Sanyo, Sony ,and It also has many other features. Some of this other features include its Geotags drift correction, and that the fact that it And of course, it is also available for free. 12- SIFT SIFT, which stand for SANS investigative forensic it has cross compatibility between Linux and SIFT is a whole suite of forensic tools you incident response platforms. The SIFT Workstation contains a group of free tools designed to perform detailed digital SIFT demonstrates that advanced incident response techniques to intrusions can be accomplished it can match any current incident response Some of its newest features include the latest ready to tackle forensics, the option to install and an expanded Filesystem Support. And if that does not seem not enough, it is 13- Browser History Capturer by Foxton and Browser History Viewer (BHV) is a forensic history from the main desktop web browsers. Is designed for you to easily capture web Browser History Examiner is another of the It is a browser forensic tool usually used web browsing history data of a web browser. It stores logs of bookmarks, cached data, web searches, website visits, login credentials, that are considered relevant for a web browser The tool can be run from a USB and it will main browsers: Chrome, Edge, Firefox and Internet The history files are copied to a destination be analysed later. And these are both free tools. 14- Sleuth Kit The Sleuth Kit is a collection of command-line file systems used for digital forensic investigations. It supports and works on Linux and it runs With its modular design, it can be used to It's usage is commonly in criminal investigations, for file system analysis. Some of its features and remarks are that more than 50 contributors, more than 1000 and in general, is a well-known tool. And finally, the Sleuth Kit can be used with the first point of this video. And, of course it is completely and totally 15- CAINE CAINE is a complete forensic environment with This is a complete digital forensics platform Sleuth Kit and other digital forensics tools. CAINE can be used on information systems that platforms like Linux or Windows 10. Being a Live Distribution software, it can having the need to install it. So CAINE integrates tools as modules along environment. Its operational environment was designed with all the tools required to perform the digital include preservation, collection, examination Some of the tools included with CAINE Linux PhotoRec and Fsstat. Most of them already explained here. It is also a free software. 16- Volatility Framework Also built into SIFT, which we already talked forensics framework for incident response It is written in Python and supports Microsoft While their releases may seem few and far forensic tool that lets investigators analyze This by using system information found in In digital forensics, it is crucial to be in order to find out about recent activities. So, this is why Volatility Framework has become agencies, in addition to military and civilian It is supported by professional forensic experts years of academic research on advanced memory And what's best, it is available for free. 17- Paladin Forensic Suite PALADIN is an ubuntu based tool that enables In it, you will find a bunch of precompiled to perform various tasks. It actually provides more than 100 useful It can help you simplify your forensic task The centerpiece of these box full of tools It has combined and simplified multiple forensic user interface, that requires minimal training line. The "engine" that runs the PALADIN Toolbox been used by forensic examiners and investigators in many courts of law. And the best part is that is a courtesy of 18- FTK Imager AccessData FTK Imager is a forensics tool recoverable data from a disk of any kind. It can also create perfect copies, called This powerful tool can create forensic images CDs, and DVDs, entire folders, or even of the media storage device. The fact that it can export files and folders can also recover data on its own. Though it is a powerful tool, its interface Additional features and functions like the already created disk images are other important So, even if AccessData FTK Imager looks like forensics procedures, it's actually very Furthermore, it is completely free. 19-Bulk Extractor Bulk extractor is a computer forensics tool of files and r is available for Windows, Linux, The results it gives can be easily inspected The program can be used for law enforcement, applications. bulk_extractor is usually distinguished from Because it ignores file system structure, of the disk in parallel. bulk_extractor also automatically detects, compressed data that is compressed with a And another advantage of ignoring file systems any digital media. We have used the program to process hard drives, network packet dumps, and other kinds of digital And it is also a free tool. 20- LastActivityView LastActivityView is a portable software application recorded by your computer. However in this tool, there is an important Windows registry does not get updated with But well, let's reviews the pros. Since installation is not a requirement, you The interface is based on a standard window list with the recent activity is immediately You can view the action time and date, description, LastActivityView has a very good response It is actually capable of detecting activity a very low amount of CPU and RAM, so it won't It also has an overall simplicity and of course, 21-FireEye RedLine FireEye's premier is an endpoint security to users to find signs of malicious activity It is available from OS X and Linux environments. Some of its features include auditing and from memory, file-system metadata, registry tasks and web history. Also analyzing and viewing imported audit workflow for analyzing malware based on relative (IOC) analysis. Supplied with a set of IOCs, the Redline Portable the data required to perform the IOC analysis Also, it can be very useful in-depth analysis timeline and scope of an incident, besides So I really hope you find this information Don't forget to give us a thumbs up and Click on the bell button so you won't miss My name is Konely Gonzalez and I wish you