Hello Internet! Welcome to Game Theory! Taste to our first ever Roblox theory. It's hard that we've covered anything from the platform. I'm assuming they hear Roblox and immediately right? Like Minecraft. But everything looks like that's what I thought at first, but Roblox provides a very easy to use and then also provides you the storefront to except for, you know, you're not given the games that some people have created You've got literally every genre out there from list of games is nearly infinite. Everyone's unique. Case in point. lately, over on of the Internet's favorite creepy games like the last two years. Piggy. we're going to be covering a Roblox Co-op Survival Horror Title Rainbow Friends sitting on a bus heading on a class trip But wait, something evil is afoot as a switches the directions on the sign, sending of biohazard. The bus crashes for unknown And we wake up in some sort of strange facility. first minute than most doing the first hour. that his blocks have fallen over, that he needs Enter the Rainbow Friends, a colorful collection will chase you if he sees you. Green is blind, will quickly run a set path throughout How bad can I possibly be? I'm thinking tumblr sexy man. Just saying it's a pair of it's revealed that our mysterious captor is Fred. Hey, it's me, Fred. Wow. That's a blast from But if you're playing Rainbow Friends, something it's the final rainbow fried Red, who looks If we have any hope of escaping Red's dark our friends to find all the requisite blocks, food you know, you could just be like me beaten the entire thing solo on my first robots players and a complete noob who's way too man? Don't. Don't follow me. Stop following It's like when the arch nemesis of a game dies. Oh, my god it's just you. It's just me!. Unreal UNREAL. I kept. I tried the end of five nights. Why does whole thing wraps up with a giant blue Why does that also sound familiar? But, seem like just a co-op survival collectathon and pictures that we find throughout the map the story of a franchise that's trying No, not not FNAF I'm talking about the lure nearest cardboard box theorists, because these factory walls. But before we explore let me first recommend that you check out Home Lore, which you can binge right channel or sponsor for today's episode. on the tin. The LORE of various historical And at this point, I expect you're asking how can seen a horror movie before? Home Lore is a lot of covering the legendary and sometimes twisted Take, for instance, this episode on castle with a haunted past. Allegedly, it fade away. But don't worry. They're not that looks like the architect played what See the resemblance? I also love which today is used as a recording studio. of hidden secret passageways, false doors Basically, the series is like those do YouTube or home tours. Except these are actually interesting, as opposed how they overpaid a designer to make So once you're done with today's episode about the click on over to Home Lore to learn the homes. Link is in the top of the description and thanks again to the Rocket Learn Now then, let's talk about some shall we? Right from the get go, this game is there's the opening cut scene, we're in a school Look, it's not Shakespeare, you find yourself immediately greeted by a along with a sign that reads Riverride through that are floating in the water and the floor wait for the next boat. This isn't just any though not a very well thought out amusement marked out here, but only two rows per I did the math myself. The fact that it's a running through everything from a forest and of a few rooms going deeper into the facility, Turns out these rainbow friends aren't just They're actually television stars. One of the characters for a cartoon known as a Rainbow holding the original voice recorder In one of the hallways. There's also a that's titled Blue's *First* Friend 1991. But all that long. In March of that very same We know this based on a handful of in another room. They show that the last login 1991, that O_Davis is most likely Oswald whose portrait that we see in another hallway. The fact that there's such a short period last login date tells us that things went downhill never just people in suits. They were actual But maybe not. They're animalistic, mindless, meal. And if you take a look down the hall we see the writing on the wall next we see the words, "this is where they were size of a human, I think we've all seen this one's going. These rainbow friends are real On night three we even see Red trying to all 14 fuses we see electricity fill a if you look closely, resemble Red was the one using this machine and I suspect they know who Red actually is. By one of my favorite colors? It's true. I like red I like them so much, in fact, that I for you. Can't miss. It has the you know. Come to think of it, the Because when you click that big red subscribe seeing a gray rainbow friend anytime soon. So why little love to the underappreciated color gray? While you're down there let me know what urple? flan? goose turd green? which is in fact Sorry. How did I get on all this again? secret identity. Red is very different to thus far. He's not just another mindless He's the mastermind behind the games. games with his big old bug eyes popping it's his weird design that I think gives us the The head, of course, reveals him to be rest of the outfit that I'm interested in. makes sense. He's the one running the facility, Say what you will about his ethics, style that gives away his identity. Based walls throughout the facility, we know that The first is Oswald D. Davis, the founder is someone that we haven't talked about just Trenton. Now, if you compare both you're going to see that there Oswald and Trenton are human. Red looks like squeezed to death. No match. Oswald wears jacket and low cut T-shirt. Red is in Again, no match. Neither of these guys not quite. You see, one of them is hiding a the two portraits. And while there if you look at Trenton's portrait through a gray suit with a black tie and in all my years of theorizing, this is most creative and most subtle So well done, Rainbow Friends, really this one gives us our match. Trenton is Red. Red was indeed one turning people into the Rainbow He knows the others became monsters, there's a monster himself. So why take the risk? else pulled the lever on him. Remember The last user to be logged in was Oswald D. within the system. I suspect that command turned Trenton into Red because he Trenton was clearly hiding things from Oswald. The with his true intentions being hidden aware of the experiments to begin with. rainbow friends and he thought that they new amusement park that he built on at some point he found out what Trenton was really the machine and activated the program, turning Oswald then manages to escape going on to create a real successful the theme park that we're meant to I mean, just look at the name: Oswald D.Davis, O D Trenton wasn't done. Let me draw your attention written in red, we see a message The fact that it's written in red implies given what we've already just talked about, his transformation. While Oswald shut the He wasn't finished with his experiments. but it didn't stop him. Which is why he work must go on. And that, my friends, is We may have escaped the facility, but Red is still the man who betrayed him. I suspect in chapter old rivalry between two former business partners, and the other who wanted to take things to were to predict, I suspect next time we're the next closest location and would make And given the use of yellow and pink we were not done meeting all the friends you can technically find them within the Pink is a googly eyed alien. Not sure they're I am very excited to see where this two releases. But hey! if you're looking one final reminder to check out brought to you by our sponsor for today's I know I've already mentioned their episodes the Edith Finch home. But I want to call in North Carolina that at one point in time was It's pretty wild. If you check it the witch's corner first. But to you got to check out the video. See, even It's almost like I need to launch this link is in the top line of description if my rainbow friends, I'm going But hey! That's just a theory. A