Backpacking holidays Part 8 Tikal - Mayan city ruins Today I'm going to Tikal to visit the ruins. The departure meeting is next to the sign The bus that will take me to Tikal is supposed to pick me up here. The bus cost 100 quetzales (approx. $13) but I additionally paid 30 quetzales (approx. $4) for the guide. Tikal is one of the most important Mayan archaeological sites, located in the heart of Guatemala in the Peten jungle. This ancient city was one of the largest and most powerful centers of Mayan civilization, and today it is one of the most valuable monuments of that period. Tikal is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, famous for its monumental pyramids, palaces and temples that have survived to this day. I'm at the entrance to Tikal. I'm waiting in line to buy a ticket. The ticket costs 150 quetzales (approx. $20). Don't forget to take your passport with you. I'm about to start exploring Tikal. Unfortunately, the weather was not good. It's raining. Fortunately, I have a raincoat with me, but it's a pity because the photos and video will definitely not be as nice and interesting. It's much worse to take photos in the rain, there won't be good light. Well, unfortunately that's what happened to me. You have to go sightseeing, hopefully it won't rain more. And here we see a coati. With that long snout, it looks a bit like a cross between a raccoon and a fox. Coati are omnivorous and are often found in groups searching the area for food. It's fascinating how well they have adapted to life in the jungle. Although they are accustomed to people, they remain alert and quick in case of danger. This is where your Tikal adventure begins. They check tickets at the entrance and from here I am only one step away from the ancient Mayan world. This is Agouti, a small but very curious animal. Agouti belongs to the rodent family and is a cousin of the capybara. It feeds mainly on seeds. His agility and quick movements help him survive in this wild jungle. In front of me stands the la ceiba tree - a sacred Mayan tree symbolizing the unity of man with nature. It is one of the most impressive tropical trees. It was believed that its crown was the gate to heaven and its roots reached into the underworld. It was also a place of spiritual rituals and ceremonies. Its crowns were climbed by Mayan shamans during their spiritual journeys. It is now located in one of the most recognizable squares in Tikal, where two great pyramids stand. Pyramid number 1 and pyramid number 2. These temples are a testimony to the power of the city which in its heyday was a religious, political and cultural center. Temple number 1, also known as the Temple of the Great Jaguar, is one of the most characteristic buildings in Tikal. It measures as much as 44 meters high. Temple number 2, although slightly smaller, is also very impressive. Both of these temples were the site of rituals that sought to unite the Maya with their gods . I Climb the Northern Acropolis. It is here that among the ruins there is a mask, which is one of the most famous artifacts. It depicts the face of the sun god or another deity. In the center of the acropolis there are the graves of rulers, including one of the most important monarchs, Tikal. This is also where the fire from the New Fire ceremony , brought all the way from Teotihuacan, was kept. Its purpose was to renew the world. Among the ruins you can come across huge orange centipedes. Proof that wild nature is omnipresent here. Behind me you can see temple number 1, and I'm on temple number 2. It's only raining a little, so you can visit it - it's not bad. I see coatis again. These curious creatures often walk in packs, searching the forest floor for food. With those funny raised tails, when you see them from a distance, you might think you've encountered a baby brachiosaur. Behind me is Temple number 3. Unfortunately, you can't see much because it is overgrown. From what the guide said, it is overgrown because there is no funding for exploration in this place. High in the treetops, the guide spotted a toucan. Its colorful feathers stand out against the green background. Unfortunately, I won't be able to take a perfect close-up, but with a bit of luck, maybe you'll see it as a colorful spot between the leaves. Temple number 4 is behind me. Temple number 4, also called the Temple of the Two-Headed Serpent, is the tallest structure in Tikal, reaching over 65 meters. Climbing the steep stairs takes me to its top. Each step brings me closer to the amazing view that stretches high above the jungle. From here you can see the remaining temples. Nice view of the jungle. For Star Wars fans, this place may seem familiar. The view from this temple appeared in the iconic scene of A New Hope as the moon Javin IV. Unfortunately, I cannot show you a frame from this film due to copyright restrictions. And here we see an iguana climbing a tree. There are supposedly paths among the trees in this jungle for tourists, but the guide warned against entering the thicket because there are many dangerous snakes and spiders here. And here we see monkeys from the spider monkey family. Agile, they move easily between branches, using their long limbs and prehensile tails as an extra pair of hands. They are perfectly adapted to life in treetops. We are now in a complex called &quot;El mundo perdido&quot; or The Lost World, located in the western part of Tikal. The hole we see here is the so-called &quot;chultun&quot;. One of the natural reservoirs in which the Maya collected rainwater, crucial for their survival in dry periods. . In front of me looms the Talud temple - tablero, about 20 meters high. It was used by the Maya for ceremonies and astronomical observations. I climb to the top to see what is hidden in the rooms at the very top , where priests and astronomers could observe the stars and the jungle stretching to the horizon. It's high, but it's nice that you can climb here, because you can't climb the pyramids in Mexico. The Great Pyramid is the tallest structure in the &quot;El mundo perdido&quot; zone and is approximately 30 meters high. From its top you can see workers clearing brush and cleaning ancient stones. This is a unique place that the Mayans used for important ceremonies and sky observations. It also gives an amazing view of the remaining structures of the complex and the surrounding jungle. Unfortunately, this is the end of my stay in Tikal. If you liked this episode, remember to leave a thumbs up and subscribe to my channel if you haven't already. See you in the next episode. Next episode coming soon.