Imagine traveling in a foreign country when Now, imagine that death means you are now That is how Queen Elizabeth II discovered would be Queen of the most powerful empire She was only 25 years old, and would soon powerful monarchies; a post she would hold Elizabeth wasn't even supposed to be Queen. But as the old saying goes, "when humans Early Life Elizabeth was born on April 21, 1926, to the Her father, Prince Albert, was at that time the current King, George V, and his older And should her parents, or Prince Albert, ahead of Elizabeth in the line of succession. It was Elizabeth's Uncle Edward, the Prince of succession. In love with an American divorcee, Edward uproar about his love life... Elizabeth's father became King George VI, at the age of just ten. Reportedly, Elizabeth's younger sister Margaret news of the new line of succession... Before the family was thrust into the role parents lived a relatively quiet life split Elizabeth was educated at home by a governess. She wasn't around children her own age, lonely experience she tried to avoid for her During these lessons, Elizabeth enjoyed learning a responsible, organized child. She even insisted on properly setting up her each was unsaddled and fed. As intelligent and responsible as she showed to be like many other children in one regard... She had trouble pronouncing her own name. Instead of 'Elizabeth', she said 'Lilibet.' As a result, the nickname stuck, and it was as. As Elizabeth grew older, and became next in on formal education. As a 12-year-old, she was taught constitutional and the Archbishop of Canterbury was her religion It was not exactly a typically education... But it wasn't all dry, scholastic studies perks, after all. To help increase Elizabeth's social reach chapter of the Girl Guides was started. Each Wednesday afternoon, twenty fortunate part in outdoors-oriented activities and be War But the comfortable, innocent childhood of Coming of age in the 1930s, her life would 15. By 1939, England was at war, and though pressure Canada, their mother would hear of no such Instead, they were sent to live at Windsor This served two purposes - keeping Elizabeth be in London, but also helping to show the upheaval and fear. If England was safe enough for the princesses, country too, and Brits should be proud and like the young princesses were doing. While the royal sisters were staying in a does not mean the princesses were completely of war. While they were staying at Windsor, hundreds so many of their countrymen, Elizabeth and of the night, rushed to bomb shelters, and In October of 1940, at the age of fourteen, throughout England and North America. She discussed the situation she and Margaret what their evacuated peers were experiencing... being separated from their loved ones and But Elizabeth wanted to do more for her country She was not yet 18, and it wasn't until the opportunity to serve as a trainee ambulance She learned about car repair, and photos of war effort. On VE Day, she wore her uniform and stood and her parents. Elizabeth was not yet Queen, but even as a Marriage The war ended in 1945, but its aftermath remained, When Elizabeth married two years after the her wedding gown using ration coupons. But her dress was hardly a dreary affair; 10,000 pearls. Elizabeth's groom was Prince Philip of Greece, life since she was only 13 years old. As second cousins, they saw each other at Teenage Elizabeth had been intrigued by Philip it was when Elizabeth was 17 and he 22 that Now as we mentioned, they were second-cousins, unusual for royalty. Philip was born in Greece, and was a member However, he gave up his position in the line citizen. The night before their wedding he was made The two announced their engagement in July a garden party. In photos from the party, Elizabeth is unabashedly Only four months later, in November of 1947, Abbey. The Archbishops of Canterbury and York performed attendance. 200 million commoners were able to listen After the ceremony, Elizabeth and Philip, waved to cheering crowds from the balcony Shortly after, Elizabeth gave birth to their A daughter, Anne, was added to the family It would be over a decade before Elizabeth and Prince Andrew. Interestingly: Elizabeth was serving as Queen born, making her the first Queen in England's Becoming Queen It was her husband Philip who had the difficult her father had passed. The two knew he was ill; in fact they were well enough to travel internationally so his The trip was supposed to include travel to of the King's death took priority over all Elizabeth, true to the stoic stereotype of not succumb to her emotions upon hearing the steps that must come next... She and Philip returned to England, and it allowed herself to cry - although never in Even then, she hid in the bathroom and emerged Years later, Elizabeth recalled the implications "In a way I didn't have an apprenticeship. My father died much too young ... It's a got used to doing and accepting the fact that I think that continuity is very important. It is a job for life," she said. Preparations for Elizabeth's coronation Her father died in February of 1952, but the of 1953. It rained on the day of her coronation, but of the day for the British people who had Elizabeth was coronated in Westminster Abbey, who had been crowned there for nearly a millennium. Not even thirty years old, Elizabeth solemnly by millions around the world. The ceremony, in a sign of the changing times, to be televised. In her coronation speech, Elizabeth looked "Therefore I am sure that this, my Coronation, that are gone but a declaration of our hopes God's Grace and Mercy, be given to reign and Following the actual ceremony, Elizabeth and streets of London, cheered by adoring crowds. Still more applauding Brits stood and cheered of Buckingham Palace later in the evening... Elizabeth's Duties Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham not spend much time there initially. Instead, they took off on a world tour for The tour was the brainchild of Prime Minister of Queen Elizabeth to the masses and the possibilities a positive image for England abroad. The royal couple went around the world, making so. She was also the first reigning British monarch This trip was only the first of many Elizabeth During her 65 years (and counting) as Queen, monarch. And, as Queen, she has an easier time than and international law works, she doesn't If she did have a passport, though, it would She has made nearly three hundred foreign Canada, the United States, New Zealand, Australia, Thailand, Brazil, and Russia are only a Some of her most notable trips include the at a ticker tape parade in New York City, India, and speaking to the United Nations. Travelling has been a large part of Queen nation abroad is not her only duty... As the monarch in a constitutional monarchy, Though she does not get involved in politics, on within her country, and around the world. Each day, she receives piles of reading material The tradition of these red boxes dates back ministers also received them. While Parliament has recently opted to switch remains tied to paper delivery, so those red The material contained within encompasses updates to the most mundane matters of state. Reading and digesting the information can part of her role as a leader. Even today, at the age of ninety, she receives go through the crucial information contained Queen Elizabeth's more public duties include presiding over many ceremonies that take place As she has aged, some of Elizabeth's duties grandchildren, particularly ceremonies where Growing Family Over the years, Elizabeth's family grew Her family, despite their royal blood, have life and love... Three of her four children have been through death of Princess Diana shook the entire family, It was 1992 when much of the royal family Anne, Prince Charles, and Prince Andrew all It was also the year that Windsor Castle caught the idea their tax money would be used to women in the world. That year, though, the Queen demonstrated that the royal family would pay for the restoration thousand year old policy, the family would Now, Queen Elizabeth had long understand the She was the power behind the British monarchy's She recognized that the public wanted to know the royals. Increased transparency was one way to help and it has long been a hallmark of Elizabeth's Hers was the first televised coronation, and cameras into Buckingham Palace. Live cameras were allowed into the Palace event that included lunch and the swapping Elizabeth also welcomed cameras into the family's on the royals, hoping to show them as simply But it was in 2007 that Buckingham Palace official YouTube Channel. This was ten years after perhaps one of the media to effectively communicate with the The Death of Diana When Princess Diana died, amid the public Elizabeth broke protocol, recognising that from the royal family. Queen Elizabeth II and Princess Diana were 'mama,' but, over time, the relationship Diana regularly broke royal protocol, and personal lives. The Queen, a stoic monarch from a different to be involved with AIDs charities or her of her marriage. To this day, there are people like Diana's Queen and the royal family for the car crash When Queen Elizabeth and her family did not press and the people of the world were outraged. Eventually though, Queen Elizabeth did give tragedy of her death. The Queen spoke of Diana in the way most of "First, I want to pay tribute to Diana myself. She was an exceptional and gifted human being. In good times and bad, she never lost her others with her warmth and kindness. I admired and respected her -- for her energy her devotion to her two boys." While public opinion didn't immediately address was helpful in stemming the tide of Later Life Unlike her children, Queen Elizabeth has had She and Philip have the longest marriage of 2017 marking their seventieth wedding anniversary. Their major wedding anniversaries have long marked by a party that included other couples on November 20th, 1947. In 2007, the couple sentimentally returned of England. There, like any commoner couple might do, At their fiftieth anniversary, Queen Elizabeth, for a member of the British Monarchy, said "He is someone who doesn't take easily to my strength and stay all these years, and other countries, owe him a debt greater than Queen Elizabeth's reign has also been punctuated her marriage, but also in the number of her Her silver jubilee, celebrating 25 years of marked by sporting events, carnivals, concerts Twenty-five years later, in 2002, her golden though both her mother and sister had died To mark this jubilee, Queen Elizabeth and In June, a jubilee weekend was held to mark One event, called "The Party at the Palace," Paul McCartney and Eric Clapton performed, the Queen. It was a raucous celebration, filled with and it was watched around the world. Thousands crowded London's parks and streets with their favorite songs, and most of all The Queen Today Though stoic and dutiful, Queen Elizabeth She is well-known to be an animal lover, and royal family (perhaps as much as its human During her reign, she has had over thirty in public affairs such as the opening ceremonies The corgis haven't always been as cute and At one point the royal family reportedly had improve the dogs' behavior when they started the royal residences. The Queen herself was even injured once when corgis! These incidents did nothing to temper her corgis will forever be remembered, as they items as the golden jubilee commemorative Apart from owning and pampering corgis, Queen lover through her support of charities. Among the charities she supports are over She is also generous in her donations to medical She also donates money to her church. Interestingly, she takes the money to church the week when she carries money. Overall, it's estimated that Queen Elizabeth's billion dollars being donated to charity... Queen Elizabeth II has been in the public Now in her nineties, and her sixty-fifth year of the 20th Century and has helped usher in Her reign has spanned that of twelve U.S. Prime Ministers, seven Popes, and six Archbishops She has replied to more than 3.5 million pieces of birthday greetings throughout her lifetime. She has met with leaders from all corners of both British and foreign monarchs. She is one of only five British monarchs who in 2015 she became the longest-ever reigning Previously, that title had been held by Queen who reigned for sixty-three years. Queen Elizabeth II is an icon of the twentieth A strong female leader, who retains a love international community. She helped bring the monarchy into the modern even the most trying of times. God Save the Queen.