This video is about a country that is filled It's known for its tough army, good and a president who refuses to give up his power. I set out to learn about this Welcome to Eritrea. I am now on my way to the Embassy of this is my third time going. so third time was not a charm. I started the Visa process in the U.S.A and then flew to Ethiopia and had to go to it's one of the hardest visas in the world Eritrea is a country located in East Africa, touching borders with Sudan, Ethiopia, and Djibouti, and right along the Red Sea. Eritrea is the seventh youngest country in the world, with It's also one of the least visited countries in the because it is ruled by a dictatorship since this is the craziest thing I've ever seen. I've been here for, I think, an hour and a half. they just throw the luggage out. Eritrea wins the prize of craziest baggage I'm in the taxi. outside of the airport all of these taxis and that's the only way that a tourist is allowed to get from the airport to the city. it will cost you $20 for the 10-minute ride. I had this really cute taxi driver that and then I'm just going to fast forward to the next day because the hotel situation was not that good, so we're going to just start fresh! Now this is the morning on day two and I'm going so yesterday after I left the airport I got checked into two exactly what I am wanting at this time. I will it was once colonized by the Italians so there's Italian food which is really interesting. so I Hi. good morning Salam. Salam. yeah good. yes. My first coffee in Eritrea. hi It's very famous about coffee Eritrea. really? traveling through Eritrea can be really challenging because there are so many restrictions, and this includes hotel. so the last place I was [Music] in just got a recommendation last night for another hotel, what happens. in Eritrea there's no internet, no local SIM card. and you really can't book anything both of them are between $90 and $100 per night. so I can't call these places, instead I have to go and try to find them on my own. I downloaded the offline map for Eritrea on from &quot;maps me&quot;. thank goodness I did that before I I came here because there's no internet, right. so there's no internet, there's no phone card, there's no ATM, so that's a little bit challenging. but then the people so that's good. the neighborhoods are actually everything is very clean in Eritrea, which is nice. you can only use either American money or Euros from what I heard, and then you can exchange it into the okay so I found the place, Imperial, for 460 Nakfa, which is like 31 American dollars. and now here is my new room. two single beds, which is fine. I think the Load shedding is going on, which means no electricity. hopefully, I'll have electricity tonight. I even get an outdoor patio my view they said that I have hot water from 6:00 so, it's definitely not on booking I'm in the lobby of my hotel, and I found consistently, at I think she said 8:00 in the so moving on now that we got the restrictions Eritrea was colonized by Italy Asmara, the capital of Eritrea, was dubbed as &quot;The places, spaghetti, bolognese, gelato places. in fact, world heritage site because of the Italian Art station in Eritrea, owned by an Italian. and one cool is the big slab of concrete over here. 30 meters there's a lot of bicycles here, so it's everybody's and more people than what I thought I am on [Music] [Music] this is the Medeber Market. it's famous for recycle anything from pieces of metal, iron, As you can see in here, this is an doing some sort of job. They literally something useful, whether it's pots, bicycle And then on the other side this woman is preparing the hot peppers called [Music] okay Ciao! they wanted to see themselves in the I am kind of on a mission to find like old jewelry. it's just something so I just showed the ladies a she said go down the opposite way I was going, pass the bus station, and make a right. that's what I got out of it anyway. hi Mr Goat! over here is the bus station, so I found it. Hi, how are you? Hi, good, how are you? another landmark that I was told was and there's shops over there. so here have what I wanted, and so I went into I just found another shop and he actually in the window had very cool. you take it out like... wow! I don't know it's exactly what I'm looking for, but we're going to see how much. and then look at this. I found this, which is kind of what I was looking for. but I didn't realize this is from the Rashaida tribe. it's it's like exactly what I was trying to find, and I found it. it's just not, I don't think... I think it's a little he's going to do his calculations. 1,740 oh oh wow so the bracelet Nafta, how do you say? what What you say? Yes, yes 400. nafka?... Nakfa, Nakfa. yeah uh which 3,120 yes which would be about $250 This is Waldov. he has amazing amazing I'm going to show you some of the stuff that he has here. it's a shield. he has all of these arrows, and then here's all the I am at &quot;Spaghetti and Pizza House.&quot; it was really a bit of a mind twist of how much At first it was hard to wrap my head around the and seeing so much Italian characteristics. but I realized whether I liked it or not, it was truly a part of the Eritrean culture. and as hard the water, electricity, the internet-- I had to beautiful, friendly people of Eritrea had to deal come here with an open heart, and a flexible &quot;go-with-the-flow&quot; mindset. The people are what make this country. And in the next videos we get to Please like and subscribe to support