- The 1918 Nobel Prize for Chemistry is probably the most important It was given to German for solving one of the biggest problems humanity has ever faced. His invention is directly responsible for the lives of 4 billion people today. But when he received his prize, many of his peers refused to attend. Two other Nobel Prize winners rejected their awards in protest and the New York Times wrote He is simultaneously one and tragic scientists of all time. (dramatic orchestral music) Perhaps more than any other single person, he has shaped the world we live in today. (dramatic orchestral music) (tense music) If you are an American citizen and you find an island with well then you can claim that island for the United States and The president is authorized to to defend your newly There are currently 10 American islands that were claimed in this way. And even though the law was passed in 1856, it is still in effect to this day. So, why did people want (birds chirping) There are a few dozen where millions of seabirds gather to mate and the waters near the and these millions of birds eat the fish, and then they poop, a lot. (&quot;The Blue Danube&quot;) Since the region is hot and dry, this poop solidifies and There are cliffs of bird poop 30 meters or a hundred feet high. (&quot;The Blue Danube&quot;) And technically bird poop is called guano and by the mid 1800s, buying and selling bird The price rose as high as $76 per pound meaning you could trade for one pound of gold. So, why was there such a Well, to answer that we have to look inside the human body. By weight, most of our oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen. But the fourth most common Nitrogen is part of the amino It's part of hemoglobin, the compound that carries and it's a central Nitrogen is essential We get our nitrogen by eating plants or animals which have eaten plants, and plants get their The problem is if you farm you harvest the nitrogen out of it and eventually there isn't enough nitrogen for healthy plants to grow. They can't produce enough which stunts their growth. Their leaves turn yellow and they are more susceptible Crucially, for farmers, nitrogen deficiency means smaller yields. The way to fix this is to add which is where bird guano comes in. (rhythmic music) Guano is up to 20% nitrogen. Hundreds of years ago, that adding guano to their This is what allowed them to grow food in places that were previously unfarmable and expand their empire. South America's rich deposits of bird poop did not go unnoticed by In 1865, Spain went to war of Peru, Chile, Ecuador, and Bolivia for control of their guano-laden islands. But such was the world's that by 1872 guano was running out and Peru banned further exports. The world would need another (tense music) This was a crisis. William Crooks, a British chemist, made a dire prophecy in 1898. With the world's growing population and dwindling supplies of nitrogen, he said, &quot;We stand in deadly peril of not having enough to eat.&quot; In less than 30 years time, he argued, people all over the world but he also proposed a solution. &quot;It is the chemist who It is through the laboratory that starvation may ultimately Because here's the thing, it's common. 78% of the air is nitrogen but it's in a form that Two atoms of nitrogen This bond is one of the The way to measure the is by the amount of energy So, to break apart two would take 2 1/2 electron volts. To break apart two Two oxygens, 5.2 eV. But to break apart two atoms of nitrogen requires 9.8 electron volts, (models clattering) I just want to interject to say that the molecular models in this video were actually invented by me. These are Snatoms, a product I kickstarted about eight years ago where all the atoms snapped So, you can feel the and hear the energy released (atoms clicks) when bonds form. The resulting molecules look and behave more like real molecules and they are quicker and Snatoms are for sale on So, I will put some links Now, this video is a repost. The original upload got and then suddenly it was But I think it's a really good video, so we're reposting it with It's a reminder that on YouTube monetization. So, if you want to support these videos, please consider purchasing Snatoms if you want some or And now back to splitting (models clattering) (thunder claps) There are two processes Lightning releases so much energy, it breaks apart in two into They then quickly react and these molecules stay in the atmosphere until they react with and fall to the ground in rain. There are also a few types that can break the N2 bond using a tremendous amount and they make nitrogen But bacteria only replenish and there's not enough lightning to produce nitrogen compounds at scale. So, chemists tried. In 1811, Georg Hildebrandt in a sealed flask trying to make ammonia, one of the nitrogen-containing When that didn't work, 300 meters underwater and that didn't work either, but he was on the right track. Increasingly sophisticated were carried out over the All of them failed. So, when Fritz Haber became interested in this problem in 1904, he was joining a long He was 36 years old, working at the University of Karlsruhe. He was also a new father with a two-year-old boy named who was one of the first women Driven by pride and competition Haber spent five years on the problem. His idea was to combine not only at high pressure, and in the presence of a catalyst, something that lowers the amount of energy required to split diatomic nitrogen. To do this, new experimental Haber worked tirelessly on this project building equipment that could tolerate ever higher temperatures and pressures. He also got lucky. At the time he was moonlighting for a light bulb manufacturer. So, there he had access to lots of really hard to find materials. Like the element osmium. Osmium is rare. In his day, there was of the refined metal in existence but the company he worked with using it for filaments So, they had most of the world's supply. Haber suspected it might so he brought a sample back to his lab. And there in the third week of March 1909, Haber placed his sheet of and then he pressurized and hydrogen to 200 atmospheres Under these conditions, the and nitrogen reacted with hydrogen. Of the total gas mixture, When the gas was cooled, one milliliter of ammonia dripped out the end of a narrow tube into a beaker. An elated Haber rushed from &quot;Come on down. There's ammonia.&quot; Germany's biggest chemical company, BASF, commercialized Haber's process. Within four years, they had producing five tons of ammonia per day. (&quot;Symphony No. 9 in D Minor&quot;) People spoke of making bread from the air. (&quot;Symphony No. 9 in D Minor&quot;) With the fertilizer from on the same plot of land, farmers were able to grow and as a result, the population There's a good chance you owe your life to Haber's invention. The Earth supports 4 than it could without nitrogen fertilizer. In fact, around 50% of the came from the Haber process. (wheat rustling) The invention made Fritz He got a promotion becoming of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physical Chemistry in Berlin. He also befriended some of including Max Planck, Max After Einstein separated he stayed the night at Haber's house. But if Haber was so well-regarded, why was he shunned by colleagues when he won the Nobel Prize? Well, it all comes down to When the war broke out, Haber volunteered for military duty. Unlike pacifist Einstein Haber was a patriot. He wanted to use his Only a few months into the war, the German army was already running out of gunpowder and explosives. Ammonium nitrate, besides is also an explosive. Just look at what happened (explosion booming) (crowd screaming) A warehouse containing almost 3,000 tons of ammonium nitrate caught fire. And in the extreme heat, The blast which could be heard killed at least 217 people and injured thousands more. Seismometers registered measuring 3.3 on the Richter scale. This is just one of many The Oppau plant where Haber's process was first put into practice And the reason is nitrogen. We've already seen that amount of energy to break But the flip side of that coin is that when two nitrogen and form that bond, (atoms clicks) a huge amount of energy is released. The explosions of gunpowder, and ammonium nitrate all form diatomic nitrogen gas as a product. And the formation of that triple bond is where these chemicals derive much of their explosive energy. Haber lobbied to convert the factories using his process to make to create nitrate for explosives instead. His superiors believed such a but Haber persisted, and soon his chemical process was at the heart of From bread out of the air (gun popping) But Haber thought chemistry could make an even bigger contribution to the war. In December 1914, he witnessed He was unimpressed. Haber believed that he could do better. He set out to make a gas that was deadly at low concentrations and heavier than air so it would sink into enemy trenches. Projectiles carrying at least in theory, by the But in practice after Germany, France, and Britain all experimented with chemical weapons. Haber converted his wing of the institute into a chemical weapons laboratory and after only a few months of work, he zeroed in on chlorine gas. An employee, Otto Hahn, expressed his discomfort Haber told him, &quot;Innumerable if the war could be ended (somber music) At 6:00 p.m. on the 22nd of April, with the wind blowing German troops released from over 5,000 gas cylinders. The wall of gas advanced Since chlorine gas is 2 it sank into the trenches Any soldier that inhaled suffered a terrible death. Chlorine irritates the so violently that they fill with liquid. The soldiers effectively (somber music) More than 5,000 Allied in the first attack. (somber music) Haber was promoted to the rank of captain. Haber spent the rest of the researching chemical weapons, By 1917, the institute including 150 scientists. It was like a mini Manhattan project but for chemical weapons. In total, 100,000 soldiers were killed by chemical weapons in World War I. When Germany surrendered, All the money he made was lost to hyperinflation. In an attempt to pay off he tried to distill gold from seawater but the project was futile. In 1933, the Nazis came to power and passed a law that including scientists, were Haber was Jewish but he Regardless, his military service but he resigned from his role as director in solidarity with all who worked at the institute. (pensive music) The next year in a hotel he died of heart failure. Immediately after World War I, Haber's Institute developed It had a barely detectable odor so, they mixed in a foul-smelling chemical to alert people to the danger. The resulting gas was called Zyklon B. A decade after Haber's death, the Nazis requested chemists remove the foul-smelling component and this form of Zyklon B, the chemical developed was then used to perpetrate the Holocaust. (slow tense music) Thinking about this story, it would be easy to or as a hero for inventing the process used to feed half the world. But another approach is to regard him as irrelevant to the larger story because someone else to process nitrogen out of the air and other scientists were Over the past few centuries, science and technology have but they have also given to destroy ourselves. I think it'd be great to believe that we could ask scientists that are good for humanity. But the reality is that is a potential double-edged sword. You don't know the or how it might later be used. Ammonium nitrate is both a So the real question is how do we keep increasing our knowledge and control of the natural world without destroying ourselves and everything else on