Speed and efficiency rule every aspect of With so much information online, anyone can with an itinerary that matches their interests, With the commoditization of air travel, the People in first class share the same sentiment time at the destination and minimize the time The travel industry has adjusted to this change and even airlines who now compete on how fast Yet there remains one business who continues as the destination. That is the cruise ship. Maritime travel is a difficult sell in the takes 8 hours whereas the same route by ship The advantages of air travel in efficiency know they can't rely on ocean views to get As a result, cruises are more than just floating To reduce conflict with airlines, cruises tropical destinations that fit the fantasy South Pacific, and Ibiza. They also offer just about every recreational pass the time, but to make the journey so no excuse to be bored. Cruise ships these days boast restaurants, musicals, basketball courts, mini-golf, comedy ice skating, casinos, movie theaters, go-karts, Throw in unlimited drinks where adults can French fries and endless pizza that kids can environment, it makes sense why cruises lean Beyond the on-board extravaganza, cruises travelers. Over 50% of cruise passengers every year are Elderly retirees not only have the time and that cruises uniquely provide. On a cruise, you get to visit many destinations You don't need to deal with repacking luggage, to airports. You get a private room to call home for the for everything that you would need - dining, When you get to your destination, you get off-shore can and will be arranged if you Thanks to James Cameron, people are familiar what the experience would be like, short of Yet despite high awareness and nearly 3 decades a niche market with low penetration. In 2019, the airline industry carried 4.5 In comparison, there were 29 million cruise industry. Over 50% of passengers who ride cruises every Even if we add up all the passengers that the Middle East, the rest of the world combined North America. By these numbers, cruises are very much an reported that only a third of Americans have Industry insiders promote these stats every underpenetrated market with significant potential. The collective belief is that continued investment that no one would think possible on a ship water parks, and 4D movie theaters will help and strengthen the value prop for travelers The cruise industry is an oligopoly run by Norwegian Cruise Line. In this episode, we'll cover the business who each have their own strategy and go after This episode is sponsored by Aura, the leader Anyone these days can find your personal information It's creepy and uncomfortable to know that is floating out there for anyone to find. Data brokers are making a fortune selling and others who want to learn more about you. Aura can identify data brokers exposing your your behalf. Brokers are legally required to remove your intentionally complicated. Aura identified over 30 data brokers that and were a clear source of the many spam calls Let Aura handle that for you and protect you You can try Aura free for two weeks using Aura does so much to protect you and your It's easy to set up, so you don't have multiple tools to get things like parental identity theft insurance, and more. With Aura, you get everything at one affordable Let Aura do the hard work of keeping you safe peace of mind. Don't let companies exploit and profit off Go to aura.com/MBA to protect you and your Out of the three major players - Carnival Before the pandemic, Carnival grossed $20.8B revenue of Royal Caribbean and over three Throughout the pandemic, Carnival has maintained $8B and Norwegian's $4B. Carnival is the largest is not just a case of having more ships than Cruises were historically positioned like travelers. Carnival was the first company to throw that optimize for volume, and design for simple Rather than appealing to the elderly traveler, The company has wielded hip marketing for from serious, classy, posh multi-week commitments for a few days. With taglines like "The Fun Ships" and to not take cruises so seriously. The company will happily bundle food and entertainment best deal and Carnival's reputation holds the industry. Carnival's volume and value approach has most passengers with over 12M passengers every Norwegian's 2M. Cruises make money in two ways - the first Cruise tickets aren't charged by entry, hotels where passengers pay a nightly rate of their trip. The rate depends on room type - if it's the upper deck, what section of the boat it's with the number of guests, length of the trip, The ticket locks down your room, grants access in any cruise trip. The second main income stream is the sale Cruise ships operate like airports, concerts, customers have no choice but to pay ridiculous The same way that flight passengers, ravers, or $8-10 for popcorn, cruise ships do the products over a longer period of time and appetite to spend. While tickets include access to most amenities sell beverages, essentials, Internet, spas, casino credits, arcades tokens, spirits, diamonds, jewelry, and art. While theaters, concerts, airports, and nightclubs their guests remain in their venues, cruise or weeks at a time. This enables cruise ships to continuously and everything. Once you're onboard, the goal is to get If you don't like the price for a drink, bad. What's on the ship is your only option until It's an interesting extreme compared to of competition with multiple vendors. If you don't like what's being sold at store or terminal. In comparison, cruise companies own and operate just the ones selling drinks and souvenirs, laundromats, spas, jewelry stores, spas, restaurants, This way, the cruise directly captures every themselves with no competition. The few shops on cruise ships that are run of their gross sales - so the cruise company The house always wins and that is very much broad cross-sell opportunities, and on-board Carnival's value strategy means that they their tickets. Carnival passengers can feast on unlimited stir-fry, barbeque, soft-serve, pasta, pizza, all-day, every day on the boat for no added There are some la carte options but for budget-conscious endless comfort food in an already-cheap ticket While food is included, beverages are not. If you want soda, beer, juice, cocktails, separately or buy packages - unlimited soda at $60 a day. And you don't get to choose which days you as daily rates, these packages are all-or-nothing based on the total number of days in a trip. Now that we've covered the two ways in which goods &amp; services onboard, we can understand performance. Carnival's revenue has exceeded over $10B Passenger tickets are the largest income stream accounting for nearly 75% of the company's Because of the company's value orientation demand for onboard goods and services. Sales of onboard goods and services are still nearly $5B every year from 2010 to 2019 and annual revenue. Between 2010 and 2019, the average Carnival - so that's the ticket and onboard purchases The total spend of Carnival passengers has past 13 years even during the pandemic. We can see just how much Carnival values volume The average cost of a Carnival trip in 2022 the cost of a trip in 2010. For context, $1 in 2010 was worth $1.34 in value, Carnival is charging the same prices The interesting story is that the average even before the pandemic. In the period between 2010 and 2017 where $1,443, Carnival carried more than 3M new The number of passengers on Carnival cruises by 2017. The average ticket cost steadily decreased Onboard spend remained consistent for nearly Every $1 that a passenger spent on a Carnival of spend onboard. If lowering prices while bundling food means and getting existing ones to come back, Carnival Cruise ships are built from scratch and are If you want ice-skating rinks, basketball pools over there - these are all things that the ship and cannot be tacked on after. New cruise ships cost roughly a billion dollars, And while a Boeing 747 can be built in 2 months, from order to completion. Cruises are so niche and so prohibitively makes it the current industry leader at scale. Carnival also offers the most homeports in with budget-conscious travelers. Carnival passengers can drive to a port of extra for a separate plane ticket just to Despite low passenger volumes and costly assets, bottom lines. Carnival's annual operating margin, which as a value play in a niche market, hovers A 15% annual operating margin is higher than United Airlines, and on par with the most If Carnival is simple, affordable, casual in elegance and sophistication at a premium. NCL believes that marketing, not cost, should If customers want a good deal, then they should not down. NCL ships are designed with a modern and reserved pool party vibe of Carnival. Norwegian cruises are more general-purpose options to appease all generations. For the young, NCL provides go-kart racing, water slides. For the older crowd, they offer musicals, long outdoor promenades that stretch up to from. Despite leaning upscale, NCL makes every effort or uptight. There's only so much space on a ship. The average cruise carries between 2,000 to 500-1000 bodies. If all 3,000 passengers were to eat dinner the traffic and crowds would be catastrophic. Cruise companies avoid this very problem by and seat assignments. NCL throws this tradition out the window with can dine whenever and wherever they want with While Carnival centers on basic comfort foods, innovation to drive margin and onboard spend NCL ships feature a diverse range of specialty not find on other cruises - grilled ribeye veal shank and risotto, Brazilian barbeque, gelato. These restaurants are not bundled into tickets buffets. Each dish is made and charged to order and dining. The dining package that passengers can purchase that values each meal at $30-50 per person, When it comes to accommodations, NCL's rooms But Norwegian makes up for smaller room sizes A single NCL ship has over 35 different types By offering so many room types, the company points without relying on discounts and flash interior cabin with no windows for the budget family that wants to splurge. To emphasize comfort and elegance, Norwegian The Haven is an exclusive area on NCL ships from the rest of the passengers. There are only a few rooms available at the who choose to live at the Haven get to enjoy restaurants, hot tubs, and a personal butler. You get to stay away from the usual crowds, "cruise within a cruise" experience as While NCL's strategy is to lead with quality, to an upscale audience without offering some niche activity. Rather than matching Carnival's low prices runs a promotion called "Free at Sea." Free at Sea enables the company to maintain the shopping experience so travelers don't and lets customers still feel like they're Anytime you book a NCL cruise, you get a lineup Free Specialty Dining, and Free Unlimited If we take a closer look at the fine print, would suggest. Free Specialty Dining doesn't mean you get - rather, it just means 2 free meals for the Once you've spent those credits, the only or pay the bill. The Free Wi-Fi only lasts for 150 minutes. The Free Shore Excursion is a one-time $50 The only perk that seems to live up its billing it has limits. If you order any drink over $15 during your NCL has 17 ships in its fleet, making it the With higher ticket prices and an upscale target out of the Big 3 and has seen the slowest In 9 years where Carnival grew by over 3 million While Carnival pushes costs down to drive in order to compensate for low volume - and ways. The average total spend of a Norwegian passenger in 2010 to almost $2,400 by 2019. While the price of Carnival tickets went down ticket increased by over $600 per passenger. Norwegian follows the same high markups of does but to even greater levels. A standard Wi-Fi package that supports audio On NCL, the exact same service and plan costs Carnival charges unlimited alcohol at $60 at over $100 a day. Even the go-karts are charged at $15 per ride Since most things on Norwegian ships are not have higher markups, and are charged per use, onboard spend per passenger in the entire The average Norwegian passenger spent $427 in 2010 and was spending over $700 by 2019. Every dollar that a passenger spent on their revenue onboard. Sales of onboard goods and services have contributed and has grown from a $600M to a $2B revenue Despite a modest increase in passenger volume, spend have fueled NCL's top-line growth. The company tripled its overall revenue from The stronger margins also translate to better operating margin of 17% and has reached as In every niche, there is always room for someone In the case of Norwegian, there are clearly value the specialty restaurants, onboard sophistication, Royal Caribbean is the last mass-market cruise 3. From a pricing standpoint, Royal Caribbean not as expensive as NCL but also not as cheap From a positioning standpoint, Royal Caribbean modern, elegance and rowdy, cheap pool parties. The company's priority has been on onboard the envelope on entertainment. Royal Caribbean boasts amenities like the 30-foot diving platforms, the biggest waterpark the most elaborate water coaster, a 82-foot The fun continues indoors, where Royal Caribbean rooms, skydiving simulators, carousels, bungee down 10 decks on top of all the conventional The live shows are not just the standard Broadway aerialists, and synchronized swimmers. Royal Caribbean's value prop is that while or the affordability of Carnival, they'll excitement that no one else can. This has helped Royal Caribbean establish cruise lines as these amenities naturally Beyond the ships, Royal Caribbean's greatest of its own destination, CocoCay. The company has invested $250 million dollars own private resort to take passenger monetization As we covered earlier, cruise ships continuously when they're on the boat - but when the physically available to be monetized once The shore excursions are decent money but dollar possible from passengers. From a psychology standpoint, it makes sense more cost-aware when they're on the boat. No one wants to blow all their money on stuff so they can go all-out at the destination. For Royal Caribbean, having their own private that they don't lose out on the greater CoCoCay is where the adventure and monetization zip lines, pools, balloon rides, clubs, restaurants, And of course, some of these are free and Because Royal Caribbean owns every part of trees, the company can once again sell and While all cruises mark ups to the goods and remain in a reasonable range relative to its In the case of CoCoCay, there's really no When a Royal Carribean cruise arrives at CoCoCay, monopoly on water into an even more aggressive For instance, Royal Caribbean charges between The rental cost of a cabana can be just as itself. This is why there is no public pricing available are only revealed upon booking and fluctuates CoCoCay serves over 10,000 guests every day from various Royal Caribbean ships around for the company. The company's passenger volume sits in between grown from carrying 4.5 million passengers Spend on Royal Caribbean cruises is marginally grew from $1,472 in 2010 to $1,671 by 2019. Ticket cost per passenger on Royal Caribbean Onboard spend is slightly higher on Royal assortment of specialty restaurants like Johnny While contributions from sales have hovered Royal Carribean's onboard sales have hovered from CoCoCay. The company's top-line sits between its With marginal differences in spend and pricing, ballpark as Carnival with an average annual The final fascinating bit is how cruise companies As we touched on earlier, each single cruise to keep everything running smoothly in sailing cleaning up, and running the attractions. To have a large workforce - tens of thousands and are stuck on a boat away from home for compensated. The reality is that they are - just not by Cruise payroll accounts for less than 25% three companies. In the various companies that we've covered other industries are consistently 35% or higher. The simple answer is offshoring. Royal Caribbean doesn't have a single US-based Instead, the vast majority of the shipboard Indonesia, and India. These international workers, who make the of cruises come alive for passengers, are On Carnival, the annual wage for a shipboard Norwegian, which emphasizes its greater service the highest at $26,125 per worker per year. These labor costs are further offset by the cruise company charges each passenger based during booking. This doesn't include the tips that are tacked like ordering a drink, eating at a specialty Cruises are a fun business in not just how these 3 big companies attempt to differentiate The reality is no moat lasts long in this The only barrier is cost and each company achieve differentiation in the most amusing Upon seeing the success of CoCoCay, Norwegian their own islands into new, modern resorts. The funny thing is all three of these companies 20th century, but two of them never bothered way. It's easy to poke fun at cruises from afar populated by seniors and Americans so hooked riding roller coasters, watching musicals, do it all on a big boat at sea in the middle But given that cruise profits are stronger in such a niche market, and the conversion a business worth learning about and from. It'll be another decade before we'll be a three-headed race between low-end, value-oriented mid-end extravagance and razzle dazzle, and