This is the land of a thousand lakes. Finland It is said that it's the world's happiest country. It has one of the world's most powerful passports. This country invented the sauna. This place is called Lapland. It's all frozen in winter. Sun rises for 2 hours during the day only. This is how it looked when I arrived. Nokia The country where Nokia was found. It has a border with Russia. It's located inside the Arctic Circle. Finland is full of forests and these pine trees are found a lot here. That's why it was known for exporting wood before being an industrialized nation becoming one of the most advanced industrial countries. We started our journey from the north We traveled with the Turkish Airlines to Rovaniemi. Will it be the most beautiful country in the world? We arrived in this amazing hotel between the trees. It's called the TreeHouse. It's near the airport. Look where I will sleep tonight! An amazing hotel! 5 people sleep in it. What an amazing place! Subhanallah!. It has a view on the snow. A quite place. Sauna You can sit here, light up the fire and look at the view all day long. And these are the activities we can do in Rovaniemi in winter. Now we will enter the Arctic Circle We entered. Now we are in the Arctic Circle. As simple as that. This is the line, right? We are now in the ice restaurant like a refrigerator. Look, a cafe from ice. There are chairs here. Literally from ice. We are eating in ice. This will melt in March and they push it all away then they rebuild it in winter. Look, even the food is served quickly so it doesn't become cold. Look at the ice! She said enjoy Enjoy the cold. This is a mushroom soup. Bismillah It's always cold, brother. The adventure will start now we will take the nuclear-powered icebreaker imagine? This is the Baltic sea. It will break all the ice now We will go now. We are in Sweden now. This is Sweden this is Finland and this icebreaker will cross the Baltic sea between Sweden and Finland. This is the icebreaker, guys! It provides a waterway for other ships which transport gas across the world like Russia when they transport gas to the whole world. We might have wondered how they transport in winter when the sea is frozen for 6 months. So, they have these icebreakers. An icebreaker! It has no chill. We don't know much about it. This one retired so they left it for tourists. Amazing! Look! Look, we are at the top of the ship. Like a duck. You can survive 6 hours in the frozen water. This suit was made in Thailand. I don't feel the water at all. This is how it lifts you. We will start our tour now. We will have an hour and a half tour in the forests. You feel like you are in a film! It's like Siberia. Finland is member state of the European Union its currency is the euro the official language of the country is Finish and the second language is Swedish. Our journey in the north - in Lapland - came to an end. Now, we are flying to the south (one hour away) and we arrived in the capital city, Helsinki. We were in Lapland in the north and now we are in the south. This country is one of the world's happiest countries The number one in the world. But of course, depression rate is also very high. But it's named the happiest because of the quality of life, education salaries and healthcare. The ranking was based on life satisfaction including corruption-free freedom of taking life's decisions life expectancy which reached an average of 82 years social support Gross Domestic Product per capita. An open sauna like nowhere else in the world. This country invented the sauna. Sauna was found here. This is how they deal with cold weather they stay in the sauna. This is the swimming pool The temperature of this swimming pool is 27degC. So, you go to the sauna first then you run back to this swimming pool. This is not a Jacuzzi (hot tub) because its temperature is 27degC but sauna's temperature is 90degC. In the 1990s era the whole world knew Finland through Nokia company as well as at the beginning of the millennium era at the world level. Do you know that Nokia's global market share was more than 40%. Finland's share in the local economy was 25% Imagine! Finland's economy was relying on Nokia. This is Nokia company. Look at it, do you remember it? Before it was overthrown by iPhone devices in 2007. Where was Nokia found? In the city of Nokia, Nokia river. Welcome all to Nokia. It dealt with a massive blow by Apple in 2007 when Apple launched its touch-screen smartphone which led to a revolution in communications. After that, iPhone overthrew Nokia's throne and Nokia was finished. Despite Nokia's domination of the market Nokia didn't believe in change and it didn't keep up with the change till 2013 when Microsoft bought Nokia and acquired Nokia's devices and services businesses. Finland has a long border with Russia more than 1,300 km and the capital city is close to the border. But, is Finland ready for any nuclear war? We will know in the next episode.