Imagine an America where you could just go from four daily options from Pittsburgh, each twice-daily trains left Denver, tracked south, the Rockies, providing passengers a selection be reached by the most reliable off-roaders. One Monday or Wednesday or Thursday or Friday would Wednesday, or Thursday. One where even Hawaii had stopping at countless coastal communities along to Nashville, or Albany to Burlington, or anywhere to anywhere--an interconnected, where all it took to travel anywhere was a This America existed. In fact, if you average its most persistent configuration, this is deeply intertwined with the development of the time since World War Two where automobiles the aberration. Trains are the norm. return, but before, it has to recognize mistake that took it off track, and into The rise of American rail was as meteoric as cheap labor, and with full-fledged federal the back half of the nineteenth century for three consecutive decades. The result maze of mismatching rails. The race for critical as companies ran redundant rails into cities, extreme cases--even took up arms. But the frenzy The craze couldn't last. While railroads became agriculture, and nation-wide rail mileage the industry began to mature; gave way to efficiency-focused consolidation. Morgan. In 1869, Morgan entered the industry with line. But rather than expand lines, he looked to In the following decades, the gilded age and removed duplicate routings--hoovering the maneuvering had wrested Morgan control over streamlining services to maximize gains. on efficiency was hardly unique. As his empire with route optimization. By employing heavy and only running at full capacity, the railroad that made railroads increasingly popular Through the expansion era, the rails had become town halls, rail stations were staples of every and business owner alike steadfastly relied Through the consolidation phase, however, as and financiers looked to maximize profits, rails for the American capitalist. Effectively then, with divergent purposes: the American public who and their investors who poured money in with optimization would create more money. From two purposes was tricky. With the arrival of the The reasons behind American rail's decline improving roads and highways, and increasing it wasn't just cars making things worse for the real competition after World War II as American moving increasingly diverse goods from alternating locations. Rails simply and convenience offered by the roads. In a becoming less viable by the year, and while it would need to make adjustments in Yet, while the writing was on the wall, the Sante Fe Super Chief, the Great Northern '60s. It was entirely counterintuitive. In a 1967 every dollar of revenue a carrier would lose if from $1.45 to $2.42 in costs. But the rails didn't they ran them because they had to. The Interstate the rails continued to provide services for the important travel corridors--made it practically routes, no matter how deeply unprofitable. Since were closely monitored and heavily regulated. Railroads cut infrastructure investment, winnowed for bankruptcy. By the late '60s, the industry was cog to the American economy on the brink, The idea was simple: give the rail companies federal grants and loans, the Department of up a public corporation to provide passenger rail so. And by maximizing profitable routings in the the front end investment would lead to the service the bargain, the railroads would hand over their to use their rails for a fair rate. In 1970, and Amtrak went from concept to reality. the Amtrak deal and deregulation worked. abandoned their unprofitable freight lines, consolidated until only four major companies Things went less well for Amtrak. To its its first four years. In fact, it didn't turn it became a punching bag; its brutally slow and far American infrastructure had fallen, and common punchline. Depending on one's political passenger service's lack of success is a or too little. But a critical factor in why and to make money is a function of a tiny bit Between Amtrak's creation and the further America passed the Amtrak Improvement Act of 1973. of many acts under the same title that didn't a confounding issue between Amtrak and the in no uncertain terms it solved the confusion preference over freight--effectively, Or, it tried to solve the problem. Amtrak thought point, while the law exists on paper, passenger Amtrak trains today, and for decades, have been and inconsiderate scheduling. The rail companies Amtrak points this glaring oversight out time which by the letter of the law is the only has shown no interest in addressing the issue--only Basically, giving the railroads the benefit industry-saving bargain's fine print has put but given how they're run, it's hard to give While on the surface freight rail might look from a century ago, down below, the industry on a series of seemingly practical, but in have led its management down a path towards form of freight rail in American history--and For example, gross tonnage per train--the more longer trains are cheaper to operate--in fact, rail's incredible cost-competitiveness. and with each addition, the average operating are few additional marginal costs for added To actually be able to increase their gross With nearly boundless options of origins it was simple math--they had to reduce the number aggregated into fewer routes. To accomplish that, business environment to negotiate massive freight--and they got really lucky. You see, as restrictions, coal users increasingly shifted and increasingly towards so-called there was no longer the sprawling Mississippi against--rail was the only practical way to get and beyond to the population centers in the east. easily fill hundreds of hopper cars within a has a single origin and a single destination--no in rail yards. And even better, the demand is per day per mine, so today, some 27% of freight Through this operational simplicity, the freight below what trucking could compete with--they had this methodology could be replicated elsewhere. America and others increasingly outsourced originating in Ohio or Indiana or Illinois, Shanghai or Guangzhou or Ho Chi Minh City in a small number of massive container ports. aggregation was already done for them, as thousand containers at once, so all the railroads point east--it was hub to node, rather than node As capacity was increasingly consumed by containers, there was no longer the need to era of sending a locomotive to haul a couple cars Volume ruled supreme, so railroads cut costs by towns--unless, of course, they had mines. dominance of volume combined to concentrate which made the infrastructure on which it not only are there more slow-moving freight trains their all-important gross tonnage per train metric are too long for their own infrastructure. Rail to let one train pass another--like a faster Amtrak new supersized length, some freight trains are there's sometimes no physical way to respect And this is only one so-called "productivity above all else, the one that management ratio--that is operational expenses divided by this is at an all-time low--whereas a decade ago at an unbelievable 60.4%. This is heralded refined their craft to such an extent that forty But here's the thing--it is very, very easy to make Dismantling a line when it's underperforming, in the future, boosts short-term profits at the trucking industry. Deferring track maintenance long-term efficiency as operating speeds have track. Electing not to expand busy corridors long-term revenue due to additional potential have made these short-sighted decisions time and infrastructure invested in far before their time, Short-sightedness is inherent to the Those in charge have an incredibly short window at least in the 21st century, moves slow. of transportation--air, sea, and road freight all naturally or is built by the government. Nobody decades of profit to build a new track to their colleagues, and their stock options that boosted stock prices by delivering Freight rail can do what freight rail wants to but as a private, deregulated sector, it's there's still that one, tiny, minuscule law that American passenger rail experience. The tragedy by the law it should be better, but the network on of duopolies whose incentives inherently push them Opportunity exists today. For example, the strongest unrealized opportunities for passenger world of dedicated high-speed rail all across the Front Range is greater than almost anywhere has coalesced along the plains leading up to the Pueblo, Colorado Springs, Denver, Boulder, Fort represent one of the fastest-growing regions in 2020 Census than the 2010--and disproportionately, that are most demanding of passenger rail. To sizable collection of colleges with car-less young sit away from the biggest population center connecting it all, Interstate 25, is constantly and the tracks to remedy this all already exist timetabled it out: they think they could run minutes, then the stretch from Denver to Cheyanne longer than the two-hour driving times, but not by of remote-work productivity while driving, plenty per day, according to Amtrak's market analysis. Amtrak has already identified dozens of other trains from San Luis Obispo to San Jose can work Vegas can work today; three daily trains four daily trains from Chicago to Louisville to Nashville can work today; three daily today. The tracks exist, the customers exist, the The track priority law matters. According improving on time performance outside of the that would be considered poor in the rest of the loss by 30%. With less loss and more profit, and more revenue, leading to a virtuous cycle of in the transportation business, passengers' time exist today are genuine, but they're corridor. They're not going to usurp the carrying a couple hundred people, in corridors slice of the traveling public--those few that can are those incredibly rare places where that slice happen is for that slice to get smaller. that slices the slice, and Amtrak reliability is awful. In 2021, of the 15 long-distance the best on-time rating was 83% on the route from then it got worse and worse and the way down to Orleans to Los Angeles line. While theoretically driving is a decent proposition for some, that's for an hour to let a freight train roll past is into a vocal advocate for widening Interstate 25. rail industry willingly and purposefully decided it was too hard--that trucking could have that stuff--coal and intermodal and others. So, where timeliness doesn't matter--where where they defer maintenance, let tracks go they fail to expand congested corridors, because Increasingly, freight rail and passenger rail bargain struck decades ago, freight rail has the infrastructure, so decisions are made time and it harder and harder to get back to that golden system like Europe or China or Japan, but that's According to most, it's one we should, but to can get just a little bit better before it gets easier to get up to speed. But before anything, the inherent and increasing incompatibility of at odds, and for the benefit of both, some sort and start experiencing again an America You might remember how back in late-November, freight rail strike. The contributing factors to is about--in an effort to cut costs, management train and implemented regressive working nature in which these railroads are getting on-call nonstop for weeks at a time so that there's always someone to drive it without prior informed about this dispute and the potentially have ensued if the Biden administration hadn't Morning Brew. Every day, I wake up to their concise, clearly-written, interesting overview of and tech. It's far better than the alternatives the Twitter doomscroll--it's made to turn the first and fun that will make it so that you know what up in conversation later in the day. And believe the easiest ad-read I ever do, because there's a try. So, click the button on-screen or in the since it not only will make you a better informed