- We all know that digital computers changed virtually every Well, the arrival of quantum computers could be even more historic than that. We're now in the initial We're talking about a new the ultimate computer, a the ultimate constituents The question is: Who's to perfect quantum computers? And the answer is: everyone. All the big players are part of this race because if they're not, Silicon Valley could Also, anyone who's interested in security is interested in quantum computers. They can crack almost any code that is based on digital technology. That's why the FBI, the CIA are following this very closely. Quantum computers will change everything, the economy, how we solve problems, the way we interact with the Universe. You name it, quantum I'm Dr. Michio Kaku, professor at the City University of New York, and author of &quot;Quantum Supremacy,&quot; about the rise of quantum computers. You see, computers have gone Stage one was the analog computer. So, 2,000 years ago there was a shipwreck, and in the boat that sank was a device, and when you brushed you began to realize a machine of incredible complexity. It was, in fact, the world's and it was designed to map the and the planets to simulate the Universe. But as we primitive peoples we had to count things- count how many cows you had, Analog computers could be whatever it took to count. So, this went on for thousands of years until finally we reached He creates the ultimate analog computer with hundreds of gears And by turning the crank, you could then calculate you could calculate interest rates. It was very valuable to for the banking industry, for commerce. Then, World War II comes along. Babbage's machine is simply too primitive to break the German code, so the job was given to Alan Turing was the one who codified a lot of the laws of computation into what is called and, of course, it's digital. Now, the digital revolution It operates on zeros at the speed of electricity. Every digital computer The next step beyond digital Richard Feynman was one of the founders of quantum electrodynamics, And he asked himself a simple question: How small can you make a transistor? And he realized that the one atom that could control not just on or off, but We have to go to quantum computers, computers that compute on atoms Transistors are based on Reality is not. Reality is based on and these particles in So, you have to have a to discuss the waves and that's where quantum They're based on electrons, how come they have so Because they could be in that's what gives quantum They compute on not just one universe but an infinite number At the fundamental can be reduced down to a Let's take a box. In the box, you put a Is the cat dead or alive? Well, until you open It is alive and dead simultaneously. It's in a superposition of two states. In other words, the In one half, the cat is alive. In the other universe, the cat is dead. That's the basis of the quantum theory that until you make a measurement, the cat can exist in both in fact, in any number The cat could be dead, alive, playing, jumping, sideways, sick, Now, why am I mentioning this? 'Cause this summarizes the Quantum computers compute That's why they are so powerful. So, how much faster is a quantum computer over a digital computer? In principle, When we talk about digital computers, we can measure their For example, spin up, would constitute one bit. For a large digital computer, we're now talking about billions of bits that are modeled by transistors, except now, quantum computers or spin down, but everything in between- that's called a qubit. One qubit represents all the possibilities of an object spinning between up and down. Thousands of qubits can now be modeled with the latest generation Eventually, we hope to hit a million. And so, we're talking of ordinary digital computers. It is the point at can outrace and outperform on a certain task. We passed that several years ago, but we want a machine that of any digital computer. We're not there yet, but The number one problem is the question of 'decoherence.' Everything is based on and electrons have waves When these waves are vibrating in unison, it's called 'coherence,' and then you can do calculations of a quantum mechanical nature. But if you fall out of coherence, then everything vibrates And what is that called? Noise. You have to reduce the temperature down to near absolute zero so everything is pretty much that's difficult. Now, nature solves this problem: It is the basis of all life on the earth. Photosynthesis, for example, is a quantum mechanical process. Mother Nature can create Amazing. Mother Nature is still smarter than us when it comes to the quantum theory. So, let's face it. There are hurdles affecting the but they pale in comparison to the benefits that may be We're talking about Take a look, for example, of food supply. The 'green revolution' the population of the world We're trying to use quantum of how to make fertilizer from nitrogen. Take a look at energy. Quantum computers may be by stabilizing the super hot hydrogen inside a fusion reactor. And take a look at medicine. You realize that life molecules that can create Parkinson's disease, cancer. These diseases are beyond the But hey, this is what We'll be able to model diseases and that's why we hope using quantum computers. We're talking about turning My personal hope for quantum computers is that we'll be able to create a theory of the entire Universe, the the theory that would explain and galactic evolution. But the equations are no one has been able to solve them. Perhaps, they'll be solved in the memory of a quantum computer.