There is much of science that we understand. If I threw a ball into the air, and I was on it, I could tell you exactly where it would Science explains through chemistry the molecules We can predict the energy levels of the sound Much like a candle being held up in the dark, around us... but there is a limit to how far Even today, when it feels like there is so can explain, there is darkness, too. Answers we don't yet have, and worse; confusing we think we do know. There are experiments that seem to suggest the very nature of reality. Are we real? Is time linear? ...Perhaps not. But are you ready for the comforting veil the strangeness at the edges of our understanding If so, have I got some experiments for you. I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching And in today's supercut, I will show you understanding of the fundamental laws of physics you with something between a headache and You have been warned. And curiously, almost all of these experiments Light is so much stranger than you might think. Sure, it may seem simple enough, travelling one place to another. It helps us see. It provides life to plants, and thus to our It has a reputation for being very fast. And yet, for a source of energy that has become is surprisingly difficult to understand. Light helps us see other things better, sure, itself, it was surprisingly difficult. No, I don't mean that they started staring at home - but experiments in the last 200 light appears to be and what light is are The first experiment on our list highlights differently when you're not looking at it, But to understand that, let's begin with What is light? In the early 1700's Isaac Newton theorised that he called "corpuscules", but in 1801 Young discovered that light must actually He proved this using an important method known He set up a source of light, and shone it Young noticed that rather than getting two a strange striped pattern was forming. This was known as an interference pattern, had been travelling as a wave. Why? Let's talk about waves for a moment. When waves travel, they oscillate up and down. But when two waves try to oscillate the same known as interference. Imagine you had a bathtub with a rubber duck Two waves reach the duck at once. One wave tries to raise the duck up at the it down. What happens? Provided the waves are of the same magnitude cancel each other out, and the duck would This is called destructive interference. Similarly, if the waves both tried to raise be raised twice as high. This is known as constructive interference. Because waves tend to expand in a circle, both constructively and destructively interfere Here are two waves in water. See these lines? These calmer patches are where the waves are This is the effect we see with light travelling As the light from one slit propagates, it points, creating the interference pattern So, the mystery was solved. Light was a wave, and not a particle. Except, there is more to this experiment than Let's fast forward another 100 years, to Scientists around this time had become puzzled It turned out that when you shone a light were coming off it. This was deduced to be because electrons in increased energy the light was imparting. Imagine it like fruit on a tree. If you pull the fruit off the tree, you need Once the energy is greater than the strength the fruit pops off. This was happening with the light and the Once the light hit an electron and gave it free from the metal. However, what surprised scientists was that they had expected the electrons to be knocked If you pulled the fruit off the tree harder, More energy = more departing kinetic energy. However, this did not appear to be the case. Instead, increasing the frequency of the light The intensity of the light didn't affect but did affect the quantity of electrons being This was a bit of a puzzler. Albert Einstein was the man who solved the He deduced that light must be travelling in of them - increasing the frequency - was to the electrons. He called these packets photons, and later Light, it seemed, was more like a particle Or both a wave and a particle at once? Of course, even this is not the full picture. To be honest, we aren't completely sure Instead, we have more results that are contradictory. Let's go back to the double-slit experiment. Armed with the knowledge of photons, physicists experiment. Experimental techniques had improved in the emit a single photon of light at a time. So, the double-slit experiment was done again. This time, only a single photon would be sent side. When this was done, the detector registered point. So, light was behaving like a particle again. But then, why had it interfered with itself Scientists had an idea. They sent through multiple photons, one at And this is where the result became really Once again, the detector started seeing the a time. But bafflingly, the arriving photons started It was the interference pattern. The proof that light behaved like a wave. But strangely enough, this was occurring only a time. Somehow, the single photon - which was leaving at its destination as a particle - was apparently at once, enough to then interfere with itself If light was just a particle, then when it this pattern. You would see only two blobs of light - one and one for particles that went through the And yet, here was the interference pattern that. Scientists tried to pin light down. They set up the experiment, but this time scientists could observe whether it was indeed It didn't. But at the same time, it stopped creating detector. And from this, scientists began to realise Light cared about being observed. To be clear, it didn't matter whether it The moment light was interacted with in some way we can detect light, there's no other than if it hadn't been detected at all. It was as if light was snapping into focus of where exactly it was, when without that a little more nebulous. Bizarrely enough, to me this seems to imply probability, rather than any discrete particle Any time it was asked where it was, it confidently this point on the detector, it WAS NOT at But with no-one checking up on it, light seems in accordance with certain probabilities. If you ran the experiment multiple times, that it was more likely to be on the bands to be in the gaps. But any time a single photon of light was This is highlighted through something known Consider for a moment a pair of polarising Obviously, these reduce the amount of light 50%, depending on the type of lens and the They work by being formed of thin chains of Any light that oscillates in the same orientation Any that is perpendicular to the chains can The interesting case occurs when a single that's diagonal to the lens. In this case, you don't get half a photon Apparently you can't just absorb the part lines and let through the part that is perpendicular. Instead, the photon "snaps" into either It either is completely absorbed, or passes polarisation, to match what it would have How do we know that the photon wasn't this Because of what happens when you start adding When you place a second lens behind the first, the two polarisations are perpendicular to Let's say, we rotate the second lens 90 Any light that gets through the first lens like trying to post a letter through a chain-linked As a result, we only see black. But add a third lens, and place it at a 45-degree light starts making it through all 3 lenses This may seem counter-intuitive - how does of light that makes it through? But this result actually rules out the possibility It must be snapping into focus at each new see if it was the right orientation all along If it makes it through the first lens (a 50% perfectly perpendicular to the lens's polarisation. Which means once it reaches the second, it's diagonal. So, once again there is a 50:50 chance that It rolls its quantum dice again, and once If it gets through this hurdle too, then it it were that new orientation all along (which Which means that it's now polarised diagonally now has a final 50% chance of getting through. Of course, some photons do not make it through Only about 12.5% of them make it. But that's more than 0%, which is what was lenses. Light likes to behave in discrete quantities. It is "quantum". It seemingly snaps to a discrete value when And honestly, we don't really know why. If you think about a wave, there is no reason You could halve it again and again an infinite makes mathematical sense. And yet it seems that down on a low enough a certain point. You can't have half a photon, or even one And if you try to do so, the photon instead based on probabilities: but only when it's Otherwise, it's quite content to exist probabilistically, travels along, before jumping to an answer What is going on here? This is still being theorised about. The closest comparison we have to it is something only a certain number of waves can exist. On a guitar string, you can have one wave, isn't a whole number. It seems that light works in the same way. Perhaps something pinches the beginnings and what this might be, and what mechanisms drive Fundamentally, though, perhaps the craziest just about light. Although we've focused on light behaving all particles of matter do the same. Light is just another form of energy, and Particles of matter - atoms and even complex Electrons are just as quantifiable and just We are apparently all driven by probability, So, what is everything truly made of? What makes up energy and matter, that causes What Is going on under the hood of reality? Why is the universe behaving different when And what does it imply to think that even What this all means is anyone's guess. The person who figures it out will be the But for now, all we can say is that when it playing dice. You and the world around you might be a lot So completes our first few experiments highlighting Take a breather for a moment. Give your brain a chance to unknot itself. From here-on in, it's only getting weirder. If there's one thing I've learned about light seems to love messing with us. As I just showed you, scientists debated about it keeps exhibiting elements of both, seemingly Bizarrely, it behaves one way when you're not. But at least its speed is consistent. Light travels at the speed of light. No matter your frame of reference, that one I have some bad news for you. It turns out the constancy of light's speed experiments I'm about to show you proves Light might go slower than physics would predict And no, I'm not just talking about light although that's what I originally intended We have an explanation for that. I'm saying that in some circumstances, light that has it either going slower or faster aren't present. But the really weird thing is that it ends anyway. Let me show you what I mean. Light travels at 299 792 458 m/s. According to relativity, this is the only seems to stick to that number regardless of Two people could be travelling through space other at 50% the speed of light - but if photons, they will see them travelling at Time and distance would seemingly rather warp light travelling at light speed. Of course, when scientists say this, they a vacuum. We've known for a long time that as soon down and travels slower. Light travelling in air only goes at 299,705,000 a vacuum. Light in water goes around 225,000,000 m/s. Light going through glass caps out at around The reasons for this are intriguing, but fairly When light travels through matter, its constantly within the matter to also start moving, like But, as electrons moving up and down also a magnetic field, a second light wave is created the waves of the original light, albeit one the original light (exactly what speed varies When two waves meet, they interfere with each interfering constructively to build each other So, when you take the grand total of all the up with a new wave - one that travels at that goes slower than the speed of light. Eventually, this propagating wave can reach those electrons interfering anymore, you're is then free to travel along its original had ever happened. Scientists have had a lot of fun with this at Harvard in 1999 was able to slow down light a cloud of sodium atoms that had been cooled zero. 2 years later, Hau managed to slow down light's sending it on its way again. You might find that result surprising. However, strange things have happened in the In 2000, researchers at the NEC research institute through a cloud of caesium atoms. Alarmingly, when they timed to see how quickly it exited before it had entered. While this might appear to mess with causality go inside it, after all? - fortunately there was a simple explanation Although the light pulse travelled faster This was more an optical illusion than a refutation Let's take a closer look at a photon of As Einstein showed us, each photon represents The speed the waves inside the packet propagate speed at which the packet as a whole is travelling You can also have a wavefront velocity, which photons can travel. This is a little heavy in its terminology, Think of a crowd of people doing a Mexican The wave that the people are doing is the You can see the wave travelling along through quickly. But the crowd itself isn't going anywhere, These people are the group velocity, or possibly Let's imagine that we wanted to send our They could do so, and could keep doing a Mexican But although their waving hands might make their travel, it would vanish whenever it Information exchange couldn't go faster regardless of how fast the peaks in the waves Einstein in relativity never claimed that He just claimed that information couldn't And if you're trying to deliver a message in their direction, it really doesn't matter Until the first person in the crowd arrives, Still, this difference between the waves within interesting in our next experiment. And this is where things start to get a little Oh, you thought it was weird already? Oh, no, this is the really physics-defying Let's think back on the double slit experiment. There, researchers explored how light can like a particle. However, in 2023 researchers from the Imperial slits of this experiment, not in space, but The way they did this was simple. They took a transparent material called indium-tin-oxide, to be reflective. Indium-tin-oxide is the stuff they use in They fired a laser at it, and then rapidly and then back again. This left only a slim window - a few femtoseconds They called this a "time slit". They recorded what the laser looked like after frequency had spread out a little bit in the had happened. The weird thing was what happened when they slits", in rapid succession. The position of the emitter, the mirror and thing different was the time the lasers went Oddly enough, when two went through, an interference This was not an interference pattern in the slit experiment, though. This was an interference pattern that affected Certain frequencies of light within the laser faded out in the regular version of the double To visualise why this might be happening, to time. The time slit experiment can be drawn in a except we're going to need to visualise To do that, let's create a 4D graph where the y-axis. This is easy enough to do - it just looks The photon leaves the emitter to the left, at the receiver. I've drawn this as a continuous line just works just as well either way. Later, a second photon is released from the at a slightly later time, represented in how future) on our time graph. If light behaved normally, travelling along would be the end of it. Instead, light is interfering with itself. This means it must be travelling along a path as its own. This is the only way that light would come And just like in the double slit experiment, of the slits too: As for why it's frequency and not intensity the implications of what you might see if like this. Photons come in little packets of waves, as Now, look at what happens if you change the Here's how it normally might look: highlighted every time the receiver sees a Here's what happens when you alter the direction Suddenly, the peaks are coming in much more The frequency of a wave over time is very to be. Low frequency light is redder in colour, while colour towards blue. So, this colour variation makes sense. What makes less sense is what's going on time. Remember, the straight lines we started with light travelling. So what can we say about the photons that For some parts of their journey, they are taking more time to arrive at a destination And yet, for other parts of their journey, ought to allow. From their perspective, they are travelling As a reminder, these two emitters on the left points in time. The same for the receivers on the right. It is a mind-bending result. And yet, according to the results of this the Imperial College in London, this is what The implications of this are startling. Light always travels the path of least time its destination along the path closest to universe apparently can go. And yet, it seems to me that in its efforts light is testing the waters - putting out and seemingly other paths through time itself These feelers are interfering with photons that travel a little ahead or behind it in To be clear, we never actually detect photons We don't see photons coming in from the We never see photons travelling slower than gases providing an explanation for why they And yet, for interference patterns to occur, out alternative routes through time. Perhaps it's like lightning, testing many to its destination, before finding the one one giant boom, all other feelers vanishing Or perhaps some other phenomena is at play. Who can say? For now, all we know is that light has proved rules. At least, not rules that we can figure out. Again, now might be a good time to pause, This experiment we just saw hints that not time in the way we might expect. Light might be playing a little fast and loose We are comfortable with causality - with other, and things in the past influencing way around. This last experiment could be interpreted But sadly for our aching minds, it's not Ok, break time is over. Can information travel backwards in time? It's the sort of thing that would be really You could tell your past self not to eat that reveal to yourself the winning lottery numbers. But it just doesn't happen; the resulting In our universe, time always seems to flow The idea of travelling backwards in time, self, seems so outlandish, it can't possibly So, why is it that on the quantum level, information "Alex, stop!" you might be saying. "You've already shown us that the solid probability waves, and that light has some with other light in its past and its future. But this? Surely its impossible for information to travel I understand the sentiment. It goes against all intuition, and by all In previous videos I've mentioned that objects enough to reach the speed of light. So how could something go so fast as to reverse a destination not just instantly, but before Not even light can do that, and it's the Well, this rule about causality's speed universe. And by macro-scale, I mean everything significantly But down on the quantum level, time might the speed of causality seems to come with And to demonstrate this idea, we need to look particles. I should apologise in advance for what I'm Ok, but what are quantum-entangled particles? In quantum physics, it's possible to hit link them together, so that by measuring the For instance, if you know that the particles you learn the momentum of one of the new quantumly of the other particle will be the exact reverse Effectively, by measuring the one particle, This works for other particle properties too, On the surface, there's nothing too weird It's no different from me meeting up with evening. We agree to go out, and we agree that I will Then, no matter how far we go on our night I know that I will be paying, and my friend This is how Einstein thought it worked. Only, it turned out that Einstein was wrong. Because as it happens, me and my friend did And strangest of all, we still both agree no matter how far apart we are. This is the strange thing about quantum entanglement, We like to think of particles as having fixed However, our penultimate mind-bending experiment when you detect those properties. Yes, it's like the double slit experiment position. It seems that particles are also kind of vague only relying on probabilities, as defined This doesn't make sense intuitively. Looking at a thing shouldn't be what gives right? Well, how would you know? If a tree falls in the woods, does it make According to quantum physics, not necessarily. Let's talk about the Bell experiment. The maths for this is pretty complicated, This experiment was instrumental in our modern closing off its loopholes earned Alain Aspect, prize for physics in 2022. The experiment was first conceptualised by really did have secret properties that they variables, or whether they really were making He noticed an interesting mathematical fact Before we go any further, I should probably as normal spin. Misleadingly, quantum spin actually defines or pulled - by a magnetic field. The name isn't important, but it is important spinning, and so can have different "spin" Now let's take two quantum-entangled particles, that their spin adds up to a total of 0 between This means that if one particle would be pulled an equal amount along that direction (with you anything about their spin in other directions). One of the features of quantum spin is that in a given direction, let's say up and down, and an equal 50% chance to be spinning down. But remember, once you measure the other entangled spinning in the opposite direction to the On this fact alone, there's no way to tell or are somehow deciding it on the spot and been asked. But Bell noticed a clever thing, by asking If you measured two quantum-entangled particles are the odds that their spins for different Let's define that any time a particle is and any time it is spinning away from a detector What are the odds that both particles would when tested, and what are the odds they would Let's formalise this with a little experiment. Here, we have two entangled particles, with directions. If particle A and particle B are both read will be up and the other will be down. They are entangled, and this is what we looked However, if Particle A is read using the top of the other two, these two directions of more flexibility in which way it goes. Quantum physics claims the particles are making measured the spin of particle A using the on the other particle, using one of the other But this is not what classical physics predicted. Let me show you what I mean. Classical physics claims that particles each spin in any given direction. So, for our 3 tested directions, each particle They aren't making it up on the spot. Let's say hypothetically our particles hidden A, and "Down Down Up" for particle B, directions 1, 2, and 3. Let's pick out a random detector for A. We select detector 1. Detector 1 tells us that Particle A is spinning Now let's select a random detector for particle We select 1 there too. This detector gives us a reading of Down. We can actually map out all the possible outcomes graph. There are 9 possible outcomes if you were time: 1-1, 1-2, 1-3, 2-1, 2-2 and so on [2-3, For each of these possible selections, we know already, because we hypothetically defined Let's fill them in now. Of course, if you test particles using the get a contrasting result because they're results. Classical physics and quantum physics both So, let's remove them. What are the odds that two different detectors and what are the odds they'll differ? Remember, quantum physics expected it to be Particles are making up their values on the they'll choose, as they aren't confined But in this table, classical physics says of the time. The other times, they're either both up, If we do this many times, assigning different for instance where the spins of the particles you crunch the numbers, the important thing to this maths, classical physics predicts quantum physics continues to simply predict This percentage difference was key. By quantumly entangling particles, and running see which percentage was correct. And it turned out the winner was quantum physics. Particles were just apparently making up their Which is spooky. Because not only does that call into question also means that the moment one particle decided partner instantly knew that that decision You could test both particles at once, no would come back. Somehow information had travelled from the far faster than light itself. So already something strange was going on This result disproved Einstein's predictions, to go faster than light. But we can take this one step further, and There is another experiment , our last experiment, Its primary purpose was to explore the fundamental or a particle, and to figure out when it decided Unlike the double slit experiment, though, to identify the moment the waveform collapsed In the double slit experiment, light seemed on whether it was observed, or if it wasn't. In 2006 a number of scientists asked an interesting observe the light after it had to pick a path? Consider the experiment: with a 50/50 chance of either being allowed reflected up along path 2. Once on either path, the photon is bounced here, where another beam splitter is inserted. Once again, the photon has a 50/50 chance at one of the two detectors. If light were just a particle, sending a single an even chance of it arriving at one detector You'd not be able to tell which way it went, to know, but you could see where it ended However, this does not occur. When the second beam splitter is present, indicating that the single photon went down before moving on to both detectors. This seems like strong evidence that light But what happens if you remove the second Suddenly you know which path the light travelled it must have arrived from path 1. If it arrives at the side detector, it must And something about this knowledge spooks It stops going down both paths, and suddenly Here's the question - what happens if has already started down either one or both This is why the test is called "delayed If you delay choosing how exactly you intend path it came down or making that ambiguous What happens is a very strange thing. When this experiment was performed, it was randomly being inserted or not, but always one or both paths. And yet, the results came back unequivocal. If the beam splitter was present, the photon picking a path. If the beam splitter was removed, the photon and picked a specific path to accommodate. Somehow, the beam splitter being added or did in the past. So, what is happening here? Is it really true that particles somehow saw Did the experiment cause information to be Or is there some other principle at play here for the instant transmission of information be perfectly rational that light could travel Personally, I'm inclined to think that this We clearly don't understand what is happening But it must be admitted; if we don't understand that causality isn't being ignored. In some way, maybe on the quantum level time the larger universe. Maybe space and time simply do not apply down And maybe one day someone will be able to strange phenomena to make finally make sense. Until then, we'll just have to keep asking backwards in time? Until then, we'll just have to all agree is strange.