And you, young lady, so pretty, Why are you here? What, you're allowed, at 53? But I am not? Diana Butsko, hromadske journalist: We will be visiting the positions early. For security reasons. [Kupianks-Lyman direction] it is advisable not to Because this is a former Now you can safely walk The front line is there. Right there. Something is flying. We stop. Now continue. [On positions of 420th separate As the Ukrainian military launches a counteroffensive in the South, opportunities to break through In particular, they succeeded But after that, the Ukrainian military In particular, Novoyehorivka, which Today we are in the positions of Here, the Russians They are not giving up trying to advance But, as the military will tell you today, Say something! In an interview. Tell the truth as it is, Our service is hard. The fuckers are 250 meters away from us. We get into shootouts with them. Every time, we have combat conflicts. Well, not shootouts - they force us. we open fire on command, but when we don't We try to be quiet. My call sign is &quot;Batya&quot; [Father]. &quot;Batya&quot;, serviceman: I am respected in the battalion. Are you a platoon commander? Are you a private? - Yes! Well, this is who I am. This is the call sign &quot;Iskra&quot; [Spark]. He is also a very important person. We are all important here, Everyone is working bit by bit. Sometimes the young come He comes and says, I explain: if you're in the then don't be afraid - why. [Near Bakhmut, June 2023] I am afraid too. I'm scared. When the shelling is going on, they fall 3 meters away from me! I get stunned. I'm scared too, but I'm trying There used to be Russians', Now it's ours. But there are a lot of them here. I am &quot;Iskra&quot; [Spark]. We don't want to show off for anyone. We're kicking their asses! That's all we do! We kick their asses. Iskra, am I right? - How old are you? &quot;Iskra&quot;, senior sergeant: Yes, this is a separate unit for seniors. But we still give everyone a head start. Well, something like that. If you want 100 thousand UAH, come here. It's nice here, isn't it, Kolya? Doesn't your body get tired at this age? I get tired, why don't I get tired? at the end, I start to get tired. But, you know, I set myself up for the Then I come back and sleep for a day. I get tired, why wouldn't I get tired. Age makes itself known. But otherwise, it's fine. I always support young people. Always. Young people come - when the shooting started, when all this I fly into a machine gun point And he sits down, and he was hooked. He is stunned and afraid. He asked me, and I explained And that's it - the kid started shooting. Don't be afraid. They're not shooting yet. [Novoyehorivka, Just yesterday, you know, It's the first time I've seen this We get up and There are no explosions. And it They put six pieces on this Remote mining! And then they started working MK on us. &quot;MK&quot; from two o'clock, from that I'm going to ask for a mortar to &quot;MK&quot;, so you understand, it's their And it's quite powerful. And how powerful it is! &quot;The MK&quot; was abandoned by them yesterday, Compared to Bakhmut, that it is much calmer here, because Ivanivske, Khromove, Klishchiyivka, Vynohradnyk, where we went up. Vodokhranka, Kuriacha Lapa. We were shelled 24/7, with an We were constantly under fire. And here it's much easier. Well, it's easier... Relatively easier. Here, by the way... We had fewer there's more shooting here. They are forcing us, they are reaching out... He stands 70 meters in front of me and starts shooting at us with When he gets closer, I can see him Otherwise... It doesn't work otherwise. We try not to give away our positions. We try to keep it as quiet Well, something like that. So you see Russians here, right? And we hear it! How they get drunk, how they fight with each other at and then shoot each other! - Really? We see all this shit! She says, &quot;Can you see them?&quot; So, shall we go for coffee? Well, let's go for coffee. I am here, I am with you. Yes, girls, we live in such conditions. These are our conditions. It happens that if, for example, the I come here and fall Have you been here all night? Four days? Damn! - Are you okay? It's okay. We're hanging in there. We rarely see girls here. No! This is Vasyliok. This is Vasyliok. &quot;Vasyliok&quot; is their mortar, a BM-29. Now there will be arrivals. Now they will start to have fun. Yes, we have fun during the day, a lot MK, RPG, LNG, their AGS, 82nd, Vasyliok. I also want to tell you that there is The ones that fly. God, so many! They only fly between the trees, gray squirrels, and fly. I thought it was only in America. Two wild cats also come to us. And why do they come to us for a visit? Because we have a lot of mice, we have and catch the mice. There is a hare! - There is. Pheasants scream terribly! - Do you hunt? Do you shoot them or not? - No, why? Let something survive! We are hunting the fuckers! A common Russian fuck, domesticated. We hunt Russian fuckers. We don't hunt for that, you see. So you're saying they drink? The Russians are all drinking. Then at five in the morning, And the fucking fight begins! 70 meters away - we can hear them. I hear one grenade - boom! And then quiet. Great! It stops. This is not an isolated case. how they annoy each other. There are Buryats, and then there are some I don't know who, when they start to fight, They fight like that! With all they have. Who knows? - They're just drunk. So they have conflicts. Or you think that they are shooting They fight terribly. It's a Polish dry ration, it's What do you get bored with Stew. It gets very boring. Is it physically hard? And four is a bit much. In summer, it's better and the nights are warmer, How can I say, it affects The conditions and everything Especially mice. They are our best friends. They sleep with us. Do they walk on your face Sometimes they climb into There is a candy there - help yourself. We have few of them left. Patriots. Very few. We fight to survive. And we keep them at bay, the fuckers. This is a separate topic, I buried half my platoon. My boys were young, young. They are buried in Lviv, for fuck's In Ozhydiv and Chervonohrad. Did you take all your men from Bakhmut? For my guys, I would have killed them, Something like that. It's not fun, it's sad, I would kill them all, They took my guys. Took such good guys... This is how we fight. This is how we live. Our people came in... Well, she is about 45 years old. Her husband was a former ATO soldier. There are well-wishers who told They tortured him, cut off his They tortured him, chopped off his fingers with an ax, tortured in front of his wife and children. Because he fought in the ATO. Yes, there was such a case. - You Yes, the wife. - Did she tell you? Yes, the one we rented a house from. There are thousands of There are many such cases. An acquaintance of mine also served he had a coat of arms They cut off his hand. - They And what, are they not beasts Should I feel sorry for them? No. To be honest, they hate Something like that. What did you do before the invasion? I worked in an agricultural company. I was engaged in the most peaceful work. I milked the cows. Really? - Really. With your hands? - No! I did it on the Italian Milk Yes, I milked cows, yes. I was getting milk. Of course, I did my best for my country! Seriously. I milked cows. You wouldn't I have 70 hundredths of my field, an agricultural Yes, I am a collective At home, I have my own cow, geese, I was my own man. Built a new house of my own. And now I gave up everything And you, young lady, so pretty, Why are you here? So you can do it at 53? And I can't?! You have children to give birth to, you To such a beautiful girl, with You have very beautiful braids. when you go to the front. You haven't met before? - No, how? The war brought us together. The war brought us together, united us. So I can assure you that the fuckers, they won't get a I guarantee you that. When I'm dead, I won't be able to And as long as there are people like me, Iskra there, and my brothers in arms, What can I say? They're fucking done for, these shitheads. Once again, I want to remind you that We are at war with beasts in human form. They are terrible beasts, fierce beasts. Well, we are dealing with them. It's okay, we're not afraid of them. Let them be afraid of us, bitches. I want to thank you once again for watching our reports, reports from the And don't forget to subscribe to us. Thank you for watching this video. Can I ask you one more question? How old are you? - 29. What are you doing here? I said I was talking about you. Why should you!.. Look, why do Ask yourself this question. We're not... We are fighting for We're not here to advertise. Either me or Iskra. We're not looking out for ourselves. We are for our land. Do you hear me? If we don't stand here, Do you think people understand Who the fuck knows? I don't know anything anymore. I was at the front line for six months Spent a long time in the hospital. I came here again. I didn't run away, I didn't sit out. I came here. I was seriously wounded. They took nine fragments from my It's okay, I'm alive. I wish you all to be the Not so much fatigue as despondency. Disbelief in our Verkhovna Rada. We don't hear much about But what we hear, we don't like. You can feel the despondency in us, you know. Not enough support. If not for the volunteers! We would be fucked here. If not for the volunteers. There is a lot of despondency. You see, we are confident in ourselves, we will stand here until the You can feel the despondency, I would like to see some of our deputies, I would like to bring I apologize, but they don't do shit. And they should, for the people, because if they forget Shall we? Let's go. Thank you, it was a pleasure to meet you. Thank you for your time. Wait for us! Believe in us, wait for the victory! Victory will be ours! We will definitely win. Our Glory to the Heroes! That's it, guys, hope So 'Batya', he's really not a commander, Indeed, yes, a rifleman. Why does he say that he punishes He's just kidding! It will be fun. In memory of