- [Ryan] This week on Buzzfeed Unsolved, we cover the thrilling escape from the famed Alcatraz Prison. The inmates who pulled this off did so by executing an And who doesn't love a - I do. Will there be tunnels? - You could say there was a tunnel. I guess if you were sitting you would be able to come up with pretty cool things to escape. - Yeah. - That being said, the things I was impressed by. - Yeah. - But I'm easily impressed. - Well I guess tell your story. - [Ryan] Formerly a military base, Alcatraz Island opened as a federal maximum security prison in 1934. The prison was nicknamed The Rock, due to the fact that the prison sits on a 22 acre island about away from the city of San Francisco. Because of this, the as being inescapable, with hovering around 48 degrees fahrenheit to 54 degrees fahrenheit all year, along with formidable currents pulling strongly out to sea - San Francisco is very cold. - It's very cold. And I have very delicate - &quot;The coldest winter of my life &quot;was a summer in San Francisco.&quot; - Okay. I thought you were gonna Midwestern people know winter and cold. - Midwestern people do know. I'll tell you. - I'll tell you. - It's fine, we don't have to go into it. - We know snow. - I'm very happy for you, what So shall we move on? - If you must. - Great. As time went on, the prison and the budget to fix things was limited. This would become an important factor in the inmates' escape. So without further ado, First up, we have the Anglin Brothers, John William Anglin and his both in their early 30s The brothers were serving time - [Shane] I wouldn't mind being - [Ryan] Yeah, the thing is, like, being in prison, obviously not ideal. - [Shane] Yeah. - [Ryan] But you got - [Shane] You got your bro! - [Ryan] And they actually - [Shane] That's very fun. - [Ryan] That's very fun. - Yeah. - That's a big bonding moment. - I wonder if one of them ooh, where are you going? And the other one was like, And he was like, me too! - And they just jump up and down. Like they got accepted Next we have Frank Morris, in his mid-30s at the time of the escape, who had been abandoned as a young child, put in foster care and run away, and was then in and out of prisons since he was just 13 years old. He was also serving The final member of age 33 at the time of the escape. West began serving time by the age of 14 and bounced around Our crew of escapees established, let's jump into the It's said that West with a plan to escape in early 1960. West apparently knew of Cell Block B that might not as some of the other vents had been. If true, this could provide them with a way to get onto the roof of the prison from the inside. West also began working maintenance crew, which gave him insight into the building's structure, By September 1961, the Anglin Brothers, Morris, and West all had requested moves to cells that were close to directly under the unsecured vent cover. All cell moves were approved. - [Shane] This goes back to my thinking that prison, maybe back then or maybe in this particular prison, You just put in a request? And they're like, oh you wanna move? You wanna be with your pals? Yeah, sure. - I mean, the thought is like - They should've just asked to leave. - I think this is maybe a lesson in humility for this prison, the prison guards and the prison warden. - Yeah. - Obviously this prison as this fortress of security. It's thought of as inescapable. It's surrounded by water. - Oh, so there's an - What's the worst they're gonna do? Do what you want. It doesn't matter because In terms of who planned what, But one thing is for sure. The plan that the four men would execute was undoubtedly bold and ingenious. That being said, let's starting with phase one, deception. With Alcatraz, it wasn't just about escaping the prison walls, as it was also about making and avoiding capture in that process. In order to prevent that, the men knew they needed a head start. To accomplish this, the men created painted dummy heads mix of soap, concrete, And complete with human hair. They laid the heads in their Sure enough, on June 12, on the morning following the escape, when the 7:00 AM bell went guards discovered that the escapees appeared to still be asleep in their beds. It wasn't until one guard reached into Morris' cell and pushed the head, only for it to roll away that the guards realized To this day, the dummy still has the damage that It's unknown who came up with the idea to create dummy heads. However, Clarence worked as a barber and had access to human hair trimmings. Either way, phase one - If I were that guard and oh, wake up sir, you're missing. You know, his head rolls out. First I'd scream, I'd go, ah! - I don't know my own strength, - And then I'd just stand there and go They did it! - Very good. - Very good. - I would be angry if the - It's very good. - But if I pick it up I'm thinking, well, they really pulled out all the stops here. I am not a fool. - [Ryan] This brings us After laying the dummies in their beds, the men went to work on All four of the men's cells had five inch by nine-and-a-half in the back of their cells. Perhaps due to his time on maintenance, West may have known that the was less than six inches thick, making it possible for each man to expand the hole in For months, each of the escapees had drilled small, closely-spaced holes around the cover of For this, they used crude handmade tools, like spoons stolen from the kitchen and a drill made from These holes made it possible for them to remove the entire small section of the wall around the air vents, which they then kept covered up with their musical instruments and with fake covers made of cardboard. I'm also not that handy, so retrofitting, you know, a vacuum motor, I don't know if I'd be - I don't know, I don't know. So they're essentially - Yeah, they're just, they're priming it by making little holes, making the wall a little bit weaker so that they could just - And this is out of view of the guards? - So it's not out of view, but this prison allowed an hour called, I where the inmates would - Everybody gets margaritas? - No one gets margaritas. But the inmates who were allowed to play their - What is this prison? Everybody talks, ooh, The Rock, you don't wanna go to The Rock. - That's true. - Oh, the happy hour at The - It sounds like the - Don't forget your loot. - Yeah, under the cover of they were probably able These holes allowed them to crawl through to a utility corridor located that was typically left unguarded. From there, they were able to climb up to a hidden landing area where they had been working Some or all of the escapees had been given permission, at some point, to do maintenance work In fact, to this day, you can still see where West actually completed Apparently, West had to allow him to hang blankets because it was sending dust cascading down to the ground level. In reality, he was actually using blankets to hide the work that was This concealed landing area became the escapees' secret workshop. They even built and used a primitive periscope to take turns as lookout. In the workshop, they were able to build the aforementioned dummies, tools, and other items they'd used to escape. It's worth noting that, on West never made it to this landing spot, due to the fact that he the last portion of the wall Consequently, West was left behind. From the landing, the ceiling was about 30 feet directly overhead, and the men were able via the pipes and reach an air vent that they had previously pried off in preparation for their escape. Experts believe that a sound reportedly heard around 10:30 PM was cover being pushed off on the roof. And this marks the approximate time the escapees would have reached the roof. They then climbed down from the roof via a pipe next to the climbed the 15-foot to the north shore of the island. Which brings us to the next phase, phase three, escaping the island. In their workshop, the inmates and a six-by-14 foot rubber raft, all made from prison issue raincoats. They'd gathered over 50 possibly stitching them together using sewing machines in They even vulcanized the rubber raincoats by holding the seams up to an idea they'd gotten from The raft was inflated using a a concertina ordered by - Do you think every day for 50 days they just kept going, - I mean there was a lot - 49th time in a row, can you believe it? - There was a lot of raincoats. - I guess, yeah. - And I guess they weren't I'm guessing that they got a they were like, all right, and they were just Oh, I guess in the workshop. - You know what I find they're always thrilled You know, they're like, hey, that's on the government's dime. So if you're a prisoner and they're probably like, yeah, hey, have more, I don't care, it's not mine. That's coming from - You're not taking from the guard's personal stash of raincoats. But 50 does seem like an - Wow, they vulcanized them. On a steamy, the steamy pipes! - Off a popular Mechanics' issue. - I love it. - [Ryan] The plan was to in their raft to Angel Island, about two miles north of Alcatraz Island. From there, they would sail again, this time across Raccoon which would then bring There, they would steal a car as well as clothing, according to West, who would later inform the FBI about a good deal of the plan. Once the men were discovered missing, Alcatraz went into Guards quickly found the secret workshop, the hole in the ceiling, and at the bottom of the The FBI joined the case, and Bureau of Prison Authorities, in what would be a wide-scale search. However, the escapees, were never seen again. Even though we know the three men made it off of Alcatraz Island, what happened to the three men That being said, let's of which there are only two. That the men escaped and survived, or that they perished in the Let's start with the latter. The Bay's waters are and there is a strong current that could've worked against the escapees. Experts point out that the trio's goal of taking the raft north to Angel Island would have been extremely especially given that they Additionally, results of a carried out by Dutch in which they built a raft similar to the one the escapees used, found that two of the men would have to work to keep the raft inflated, leaving only one to paddle. The weather would've been when the men made it outside the prison. The water is said to have If the raft had sunk or the men had gone overboard into the water, they would probably have before starting to lose consciousness, according to author Jolene Babyak. - [Shane] I tell you what, you ever looked out into - [Ryan] I've looked out at the ocean, it's scary. - [Shane] But that bay in particular, I don't like the look of it. - [Ryan] The ocean is - [Shane] It's scary enough, but that bay? Scarier than the ocean. - [Ryan] I can't speak to that. - [Shane] It's rocky and it's cold. - The only time I've has been in a very fun context. I was watching a group of - Oh, that's fun. - It was really fun, they and one of them fell off. - But imagine that, if and a seal hops up on your - Yeah! - That's not ideal. - I don't think that's but it'd be like, come very funny, meet you back on the shore, we'll do this again some time. On June 12th, bits of wood were found in the water near Angel Island. The pieces were identified On June 14th, bags made from raincoats were found halfway between These bags contained irrefutable evidence that they had belonged to the escapees, photos of the Anglins and their family, nine pieces of paper with a list of people to contact on the outside, and a letter written to Clarence Anglin. Many point to these personal items as evidence that the as these would have not On June 15th, a homemade life vest was found floating near Cronkite Beach. A second life vest was discovered on June 22nd no more than 100 yards from the eastern coast of Alcatraz Island. Its ties were still knotted. All three of the men would have set out with very little money, so the fact that the hordes of authorities on the case never found a shred of evidence of any thefts or holdups for food, clothing, or transportation made it seem unlikely that they made it to the mainland alive. The FBI states that they never either in the U.S. or In mid July 1962, about a Norwegian shipping spotted a body in the ocean about 20 miles away from the Golden Gate Bridge. However, they did not call in the sighting and did not report it until fall, when they returned to San Francisco, and the body was never recovered. - Look, it's a dead guy. - Oh well. - I guess if it's a freighter, I mean, one, you should report it, but if it's a freighter, I can't imagine they can really stop. Also, you know, time is money. - Sure, I get not stopping. But a little phone call. - Call it in. - Like hey, I think I saw a dead body. And because the body was never recovered, we can't tell if it's - Yeah. - So, you know, shit Though, there is plenty of credence to our second theory, that Morris and the Anglin Brothers had a raft to help them which many people have successfully without the benefit of A triathlon is held each year in which participants complete a mile-and-a-half swim in the same waters around the same time of year Participants do say that the current, choppy waters, and wind are But according to Jeff Harp, a security analyst for CBS San Francisco who worked with the FBI for over 20 years and goes for swims in he doesn't know of any contestants in the triathlon who haven't Furthermore, most of the bodies of those who drown in the Bay but despite extensive searches, the fugitives' bodies were never found. U.S. Marshal Michael with help from the the escapees could've for two-and-a-half hours at The same Dutch scientists who of the escape also which they presented in the conditions in the water The model found that there between 11:30 PM and midnight during which the trio would have needed in order to have a chance And since the inmates may have made it to the roof by 10:30 PM, Though, even then, they would've had to let the currents carry northeast of the Golden Gate Bridge, rather than trying to reach Angel Island. The model also suggested that items left at the shoreline near Horseshoe Bay would drift back towards Angel Island, where some of the escapees' items were recovered once the tides reversed. And while the Dutch scientists' real life recreation of the escape did not work, as they were unable to and bring the raft to land, they still got fairly in a little over an hour aboard the raft. One of the scientists conceded. He still believes the escapees might have been able to pull it off given the rush of adrenaline Also, one thing I'm gonna point out here, I don't know how accurate this test is if you have scientists doing the paddling themselves in the boat. - [Shane] Oh, those fucking poindexters? - [Ryan] I just like, I mean, I feel like, maybe have some guys to the dudes who were escaping. - [Shane] Yeah. - I guess I am generalizing are meek individuals, but I'm just saying that if these are inmates, hardened criminals that I don't know if this is the - Scientists could go to the gym, right? - I suppose. - Chris Pratt in the Jurassic World film. - He's not a scientist. - I thought he was. - He's also a fictional character. - His name is Owen Grady. Whoa there, Blue. - Oh Jesus Christ. - Everybody loves Blue, a great character. - [Ryan] David Widner, the has said that his uncle Robert, one of John and Clarence's older brothers, confessed on his deathbed &quot;that they didn't have to &quot;that he had been in touch End quote. Widner added that his grandmother, who would've been John and would sometimes receive signatures on the card Multiple family members of have claimed over the that they have noticed mysterious women wearing veils and/or heavy makeup, which could have been the coming to pay their respects. In 2015, a history channel show claimed that a photo taken of two men in Brazil 13 years after the escape depicted brothers John and Clarence Anglin alive. The photograph came from Fred Brizzi, a childhood friend of the Anglin Brothers, who turned it over to the Brizzi's story is that he when he happened to run into Brizzi has since passed away. Many in the Anglin family that John and Clarence They also believe the photo An expert connected with concluded that the photo The U.S. Marshal's office Their experts do not believe the photo depicts John and Clarence. However, they acknowledge isn't really possible given and the fact that the subjects - Their execution of this that, I know it's technically but just give 'em a pass. - Also, let's say they The fact that they didn't get into trouble for the next 50 years - Jail worked. - They received penance. They've stuck to the plan, and, you know what, they deserve - I mean, prison, truly, should be about reforming the soul of a man. - And these folks, all they did was drink caipirinhas in Brazil. As for the aftermath of the escape, Allen West, the inmate left behind, cooperated with officials in the search, finishing serving his sentence across three different and was released in 1967. But he remained free for only one year before landing himself concurrent one to three years, and life He died in 1978. Alcatraz shut down in March 1963, less than a year after The FBI officially closed their case on the 1962 escape from Alcatraz on December 31st, 1979, over 15 years after their However, they add, quote, &quot;It's one mystery we'd all The case is expected to remain open with federal marshals until either the fugitives are arrested, evidence of their deaths is found, or the fugitives reach 99 years of age. In the end, nobody truly bunch of Alcatraz escapees or if their midnight voyage was ill-fated. For now, the case remains unsolved. - I tell you what, on my 99th birthday, I'd be walking into the and just being like, fuck you guys. - Your grandson wheels and you're just, sunglasses on, just - Fuck you coppers. - It's me, I was drinking Suck it coppers. And then you just die in your wheelchair.