I want to help you make a great impression when you first meet people and introduce yourself in English. Specifically I want to help you to introduce yourself professionally when you're at work or at a work event and I want to give you some examples of self-introductions. You need this type of professional introduction in lots of different situations: at conferences and networking events, before you give a presentation at work, when you're meeting new customers or clients, when you're at a job interview, all of these moments are an opportunity to make a good impression and you can do that by working on your 60-second introduction with me right now. Good news! We have helpfully also provided you with a free PDF workbook which will help you to create your own professional self-introduction. There's lots of great tips and examples inside. The link to get that PDF is just down in the description below. We'll send it straight to your email inbox. And let me introduce myself. I'm Emma Jakobi, I help women around the world to connect and communicate confidently in English through Hey Lady! Hey Lady! is an online speaking community giving women the opportunity to meet and practise speaking English in a supportive judgment-free space. Here on our YouTube channel, you'll find lessons and advice that will help you to become that confident English speaker you've always wanted to be so hit that subscribe button down there and please like and share this video if you enjoy it. The purpose of your self-introduction is to create a good impression to help people to trust you and to show them that you're likeable. The more interesting, positive and relevant your introduction is the easier it's going to be for them to feel relaxed, to take an interest in you and to want to keep talking with you. So your 60-second introduction is really important. So of course you need to start with who you are, your name, your job, your title or your area of expertise. Hi I'm Emma! I'm the founder of an online English language community where we help women around the world to develop confidence and fluency as English speakers. And now for the next part, we need to add a little more detail about your background, something that you specialise in or why you decided to study that. We want to find out who you are as a person. I struggled a lot with confidence and self-doubt when I was younger so I'm passionate about helping more women to speak up, to be heard and to influence people in their professional lives. Now the details that you include here really depends on who you're talking to, what would they be most interested in. Let's look at some examples. Hi everyone! I'm Phoebe. I specialise in UX/UI design. When I was a kid I used to love solving problems and creating fun experiences for my friends and I really believe that it's this passion that led me to my current role as product designer at Slayon. So this introduction would be great at a training day or a networking event where you're introducing yourself to people who are outside of your organisation. Hey nice to meet you, I'm Tess! I've just started working in the town planning department. I've been brought into the team to manage the foreshore redevelopment. Previously I worked on the Elizabeth Quay redevelopment in Perth and there are lots of similarities between the projects. This introduction makes complete sense in the office environment where you're introducing yourself to your new colleagues or your workmates and you're sharing a little bit more about your role within the organisation. Hi everyone I'm Theres, a PhD student at Monash University. I'm currently researching the prevalence of diabetes in indigenous populations. As an Indigenous woman myself this research is really close to my heart. I'm on a mission to elevate the lives of the people in my community. So this introduction is more about demonstrating your expertise. It's great for when you are making a presentation in front of a group of people who don't know you well but you want to influence because it really clearly states the purpose or the objective and your expertise, why you're there. And did you notice how in all of those examples those extra little details we included make it easier for the person that you're talking to to ask a follow-up question? Now this is a really interesting way to think about your introduction. What are the little seeds that you can plant in their minds to help them keep the conversation going? To help them feel relaxed and to stay interested to make it easy for them to continue talking to you because if they feel at ease and interested it's only going to benefit you and the relationship that you're trying to build. So next you need to share a little bit about why you're there. Why are you speaking with these people today? What's the objective or your goal? Today I'm looking forward to learning new leadership strategies and getting to know all of you better. Anyway I just wanted to introduce myself because I'm sure that we'll be working a bit together. Today I'll be presenting the results of my research in the hope that public health policies in rural areas will be aligned with the outcomes that we're all working towards. And that's it, my friends! Three simple things to remember. In fact, a useful way to remember these essential elements of your introduction is simply: Here's who I am. Here's where I came from. And here's where we're going together. You can apply this simple formula to any introduction, professional or personal. In fact, we have provided a few extra examples in that free PDF we made for you, the PDF that's going to help you to create and construct your own perfect introduction so that you can make a great impression, so that you can build rapport and lasting relationships in English. Please don't just watch this lesson, use the resources we create for you to go even further. You can get the link to that free PDF just down in the description below this video. If you enjoyed this video please let us know down in the comments or give it a like, subscribe to the channel and let me know if there are any lessons or videos that you'd like us to create here next. See you soon!