In the 17th century, France was and the person of its king, Louis XIV, He was born to play this role, to be the one Longer At a very young age, he was associated This is how, later, He had to be there all the time The behavior of Louis XIV reveals an entire personality imbued He shows towards those around him, whether of his close advisors, his subjects, from the court, from neighboring states, a pressing need He appropriates the image of the Sun King "The sun, through light which compose it like the most vivid and beautiful image Throughout his reign, he enjoys power He expands his territory by building the unity of his country. It's thanks to him the whole world. The Sun King was a remarkable man, of exceptional scale, but who, like He sometimes confused The little dauphin Louis, future Louis XIV, September 5, 1638. He was the son of Louis XIII the Infanta of Spain, Portugal and Archduchess of Austria, In 1615, we are five years later Louis XIII, at the time at only nine years old, so we proclaim him king who will govern in his place. This regency council is reduced Marie de Medici was given which was, in short, "My dear princess, Do him a lot His entire political program, is to be able to moor and she will work on it. This is the backdrop That is to say the realization of what is the Spanish double marriage. Louis XIII married Anne of Austria, daughter of Philip of Spain and great-granddaughter and her sister who would become Philip IV The son of Louis XIII was to inherit during the long struggle who had opposed the Bourbons Dynastic alliances with the aim of maintaining peace, as were of no use. The victory began the year Louis was born. The two countries were but everyone wanted No one suspected that after birth France and Spain would remain Louis XIII hoped to give France, a cultural identity With his prime minister, Cardinal Duke of Richelieu, he led a severe policy and increased Louis XIII endorses and little by little, we move away and in the years 1629-1630, we do not openly wage war on each other, Towards the end of his life, Richelieu appointed his successor a former papal emissary. He entrusted him with the mission create a strong France, Louis XIV is, in a way, It's Louis Dieudonne. His birth follows and very bad relationships The birth of Louis was celebrated He ensured the succession to the throne, to mark the start of their project. Richelieu died in 1642, just a few months before Louis XIII. It is said that Louis XIV was and the role he would play later. When he was called the king asked, &quot; Who is it ? >> and the young dolphin &quot; Louis XIV. >> He was only three weeks old The birth itself He was the first born of his parents His arrival was considered a gift from God to the people of France. On the death of Louis XIII, May 14, 1643, Anne of Austria became regent. She immediately shared her power protected by Richelieu, A regency for the nobles, that there will be opportunities and strong opportunities, since Louis XIII and especially Richelieu, They thought that That's a surprise, which they thought was theirs with Mazarin, to apply and the hated Cardinal Richelieu. Louis XIV acceded to the throne, but didn't take in person He had to wait 18 years for this. and the death of its prime minister. Mazarin, whose lover is believed to have been of the young boy the king who would serve From the earliest age, He was present when he received He encouraged Louis and took him to admire the troops to arouse his interest At the age of seven, the child king was and he quickly became an excellent horseman, just like his mother. Louis was the true love His birth had reinforced She spent more time with her child On the other hand, the queen wore Philippe Duke of Orleans and often treated him like a daughter. The throne is considered We were in a system, by its design, with cousins, a family owns property, of a pratipoty or a kingdom. When Marie de Medici decides to be proclaimed It causes teeth grinding who consider that they have, Louis was just ten years old, in 1648, when the country experienced a period which was going to upset It's a revolt to find the meaning. I would say it's the last since there is a sling one last reaction The Fronde was a reaction to power both foreigners, to shift power It's a dramatic episode Anne of Austria and Mazarin were The young Louis XIV experienced it and it will mark his life throughout, his relationship with those around him Anne of Austria will and it is his behavior, his skill, she is well advised by Mazarin, but it's his ability, despite a character she can't stand offenses From time to time, "You have to pretend to give in and we will only be stronger afterwards All this done and that when Louis XIV is going to be he holds absolutely all the cards and extremely strong cards. He owes that to his mother. Despite terrifying episodes this attempt to counter However, nobles and members who he felt had betrayed him Louis XIV was a student of Mazarin who instilled in him the idea that it should be This shows the vision he has. It is very high. He very intimately to be the living representative and that imposes an increased majesty. He has the will, to assert oneself as In the early 1650s, Mazarin extended his tutoring the young business king In the last years of his life, Louais was between 15 and 22 years old, he involved her The young man began and welcome foreign dignitaries During most France and Spain were at war. The young king was therefore instructed who had to be victorious, When he came of age, Louis had inherited a great sense since he was king by divine right. His role was to use this authority to become the incarnation At 14, Louis participated the sun god. He exuded a natural majesty and cultivated with care From 1635 to 1659, with ups and downs, respites, but it's always It's going to end... In 1659, the Treaty of the Pyrenees ended He was planning marriage to the Infanta Maria Theresa of Austria, daughter of the king of Spain. It was signed in neutral territory, in the middle of the Bidasoa river One says, it's obviously at a Spanish wedding. >> We know from experience that doesn't solve everything, It's better to be allies than not having a connection at all. >> This is why this marriage has because we close between France and Spain. Louis and his wife were welcomed Anne of Austria The cardinal died Louis was 22 years old. The Pope has no power over him and the emperor has no power over him. Obviously, It annoys the Habsburgs. The king of France said, I don't owe an account After Mazarin's death, Louis XIV seized the reins His first task was He banished from the royal council and does not choose a prime minister, neither during his event, nor later. This coup stunned the court. When he died, Mazarin was a rich man. He left Louis all his fortune, its sculpture collections, but it is said that its most precious who was the main advisor He allowed him Richelieu's project, Colbert, he's going to be the new strong man, but it won't be a principal minister. He is a minister of states and who, with his family, will become since Colbert will ensure the king's buildings, the navy through his family, and all the management too Colbert replaced the superintendent Nicolas Fouquet. Colbert was of humble origin, superior intelligence Under Louis XIV, it was to become the most remarkable The king had already put them back in their place Now, assisted by Colbert, The real beginning of his reign is marked by a series The kingdom's coffers are empty. Colbert reforms the financial system. It reduces the national debt Tithes and customs were the gabelle, a tax Colbert also throws and works to develop Then he reshaped the royal navy By its military forces, Louis XIV supplants in his role Although its true Colbert occupied except that of war. His work bore fruit. In ten years, from 1661 to 1671, after Mazarin's death he manages to restore and double the national income. When he died in 1683, this one was and almost ten times All this will collide which will be expensive and will thwart this effort The Sun King is still known for being a protector His motivation is simple. It's being the most powerful and manifest it in stone, in entertainment, in short, to dazzle. In 1667, Louis founds the Academy To his death, he will continue to create academies to carry out activities that they direct singing praises It is the patronage of the Sun King which allowed the development through writers whose works have always The visual arts also found He subsidizes and passes like Charles Lebrun, Pierre Mignard, Antoine Coysevox and Yacinte Rigault, in the entire Europe. In music, composers Jacques Champion de Charbonniere and influence subsequent generations. During the 1660s, and efficiency to leave the task to him and turn He wanted to retire remotely the old meeting Colbert was unable what was required for the construction He will have no successor and when he dies, the treasure must Kings used to chosen for political reasons and an official mistress With Louis, romantic relationships At the same time, He had great always observed the rites of the Church and tried not to sin. There is a question that we ask ourselves and to which how did Louis manage with the obvious contradiction between his extramarital affairs Louis XIV confessed to his escapades and its successive directors of consciousness always advised him to join However, he also let himself go Admitting the king's sins, it was also a way of not who was to give and all its political force. The quasi-divine role moments of doubt in the young king He had been raised to believe this linked to the need to be reassured, can partly explain of the most beautiful women at court. Young Louis experienced a passion He fell in love with her his mother and Mazarin forbade him what they considered The cardinal did everything to discourage him and arranged for him with the niece of Anne of Austria, the young Infanta Maria Theresa of Spain. Broken heart, Louis accepted out of duty June 9, 1660. He wasn't in love with her, but he was touched and flattered Despite his infidelities, Louis never stopped with courtesy and displayed tenderness. He did not want and, over time, The bottlenose dolphin, Louis of France, only surviving child was born the following year, in 1661. It is difficult to know but we know that she does In 1661, the king's brother, Philippe, who we called sir, which did not take long Anne of Austria was shocked To avoid his anger, Henriette Anne suggested to Louis to pretend to be interested in one of his followers, which would allow Bad idea, It didn't take long supposed to serve she too falls into the arms of the king. Henriette had chosen Louise de la Valliere. This one, impressed fell in love with the man himself. He was seduced by her blond hair, her blue eyes, her pale skin, her shyness He took her as his mistress. Despite his multiple infidelities, Louis always returned Their relationship never ended when the queen withdrew with Louise de la Valliere. Anne of Austria had to intervene Louis then promised his wife he would change his ways Louis XIV, throughout his life, will be We know his pain and we can even say that there is between the mother in some way undermine his relationship with Marie-Therese, his wife, in which he will always see less political than his beloved mother. Queen Marie-Therese When Anne of Austria dies Louis loses a mother and the queen, We know that both cried a lot. Louise de la Valliere had of which only two survived. Mary Anne, the prettiest daughter of Louis XIV. He spoiled her terribly. At the time of his birth, Louise was saddened when she learned Athenais de Rochechouart de Mortemart, Marquise de Montespan, following intelligent and ambitious, that Louise de la Valliere wore to him Louise being pregnant it was not difficult to distract him and Athenais de Montespan became Madame de Sevigne described her beauty. Louis found her fascinating. They were incompatible, the most beautiful women in France. Louise was discreet She did not compete with the intrepid Louis grew tired of her. In 1674, that she had lost. She publicly threw herself at then she took the veil It was hoped that Athenais would do the same. But it didn't happen. She invites Francoise d'Aubigne Scarron, an old acquaintance to be governess of the royal bastards. The king rewarded her for her dedication She thus purchased the property 50 kilometers from Versailles, and took the title of Madame de Maintenon. Madame de Maintenon is the person and a certain influence who engaged the life of the kingdom over decades or more, Madame de Montespan's lack of interest because the king loved his offspring He appreciated maternal tenderness of Madame de Maintenon with the children. Francoise, now Madame de Maintenon, whose hair and black eyes His sincere interest in the salvation of the king, frank conversations led him as a friend and confidante. It is possible the elevation of his housekeeper In 1675, on the adulterous behavior of the king, the Catholic Church acts directly. A priest handed He refused him the sacrament of penance thus preventing him from communicating at Easter. Louis and Athenais had to commit The king began about his extramarital affairs. Bishop Bossuet and other great preachers from their pulpits for years. His mother's tears and prayers for his salvation Bossuet and Madame de Maintenon to bring the couple for religious reasons. Back from Flanders, the king assured Bossuet since Madame de Montespan lived Yes sir, replied Bossuet, God would, I believe, be happier The bishop was right. Having frequented he anticipated that it would be difficult Louis quickly allowed stipulating that she could not see him Except that these good resolutions were and they fell again The graces of Madame de Montespan for more than ten years. After she had put its weight became and Louis' passion for He was 40 years old. In the winter of 1678 history seemed to repeat itself. Although not intellectually gifted, they said she was as stupid as a basket, Angelique de Fontange, aged 18, that the court has ever seen. She had no difficulty He sleeps with her, they say, and tried to keep this affair secret, especially in the eyes of Madame de Montespan and Madame de Maintenon. It soon became obvious to all that the king had become the slave Very quickly, she gave him orders, She became a duchess Not seeing in her a rival, Madame de Montespan to stop When she learned title which did not have him she flew into a rage. Mademoiselle de Fontange did not keep and was fired, The king sent Madame de Maintenon She then says, and I spent the time not to bother the king anymore. I remember her answering "But madam, as if it were She ends up dying After having poisoning was suspected which brought nothing conclusive. At that time, the litany of infidelities For his part, it had become If when he was younger, like brands now that he was getting older, his great appetite was considered and began his authority Certainly, Madame de Maintenon had was of modest extraction and the widow of a sulphurous writer, but she was a great comfort to him, providing him with advice and encouragement. In 1682, Louis was supposed He devoted himself entirely delighted to finally cum Except he seemed fine, though, When the court, as usual, Madame de Maintenon went there too, although When the king went to visit Madame de Maintenon, The joy of this was short-lived. Upon his return to Versailles, and died two months later, Now aged 46, instead of considering which could cause it to burst for accession to the throne, Louis XIV secretly married Madame de Maintenon. Nobody knew about it. The union was sealed in the church, but the State was not involved. The question of salvation Louis promised but it will not become He will no longer have another mistress. Romantic adventures make By choosing Madame de Maintenon, Louis scores points He gains religious authority and now, which reminds him After this marriage, religious precepts were observed and the king led a private life as they preached to him The slow evolution of a feudal system marked a big change They were released from their duty and had the right to trade and, at the same time, escape poverty. However, improving life He was just looking Even more than his father, Louis XIV thought the sole political authority of France. On the national level, he succeeded in increasing his influence and to establish a centralized authority, to the detriment of the aristocracy as well as the church. Centralization, much more than legal texts. First, why centralization? The basic reason, it's that France It is not a unitary country. France, it is a country that is made There are territories in every direction, There are privileges. In this patchwork, He is obliged to respect Obviously, he does not deprive himself Colbert prioritized the increase and culture by central power. Reduce provincial autonomy To achieve the centralization of power, he will methodically deprive of its representation rights. Louis' decision to make Versailles the first movements It disrupted the lives of those privileged Only men of great endurance and at Versailles simultaneously. Louis didn't stop there. He embarked on a lifestyle the provincial gentlemen. The nobility of the 16th century was very A provincial lord He remained on his land The organization of the court by Louis XIV, it is a masterpiece of politics, because there was obviously which Henry IV had already diminished. New uses require to adopt the lifestyle of courtiers. The political masterpiece is to ensure to be in their castle and let there be nothing more pressing, more important to them or to have a small function. Sometimes domestic functions. Great lords accepted to have the honor to have the honor to witness the sunset, the royal rising, to all these scenes of public life Louis continued the work by creating a centralized state, thus eliminating the remains in certain parts of France. By removing the hierarchy he saw his power growing. In the meantime, we send stewards. Louis XIV is not it is the triumph of the stewards. This is what we will call These stewards, duchies, perils, lordships and they will replace the lords. These stewards, they will be and great senior officials Louis was wary of allegiances. He also considered the Pope to be He sought to strengthen Gallicanism, He summoned the assembly of the clergy, in 1681, who approved the declaration The king was authorized to promulgate and all the rules decreed by the pope This declaration which was not surprising since Louis XIV, as well as the court, May 6, 1682. The king had several reasons to create and change the seat of the monarchy. This upheaval For them, away from demonstrations like France In this place entirely under control, the nobles considered to dine at the king's table or to carry the candlestick They were no longer able or create trouble. We have enough information thanks to the Duke of Saint Simon, and to the gentleman's second wife, They report to us that the historian maintained by power, the king's favorite playwright, Jean Racine. The writings of the marquise an interesting source. This intellectual, beautiful and charming, and kept a free correspondence where The king's beauty was declining, but his presence full of authority At Versailles, Louis XIV in all its magnificence, but you also have to see the brand The king was not only looking At the time, kings used to to build castles As in all things, Louis XIV pushed The facade was of capital importance from a figurative and literal point of view. The displayed splendor of Versailles that the practical nature of its design or the comfort of its inhabitants. When we say to the king that the fires would push back if we didn't enlarge he chooses to bear this inconvenience and the symmetry of its castle. At the height of the reign of Louis XIV, The Palace of Versailles Its maintenance required 5,000 people. The social structure was based who ran from the highest The large apartment was in the ritual of life at court, as she had been We gathered every morning and three times a week called apartments. During the evening, gambling, A way for Louis XIV to control the nobles who came to live Fontainebleau was the most charming and the only palace where Louis did not He liked to withdraw in this ancient and romantic castle, particularly Marly, the house of pleasure so the king can relax, escape from court life and lead the life of a simple gentleman In Marly, we forgot etiquette. Also, the invitations were and for those with Louis was a generous host. We note in the character of the Sun King He was almost too polite everything that the label imposed on him, but it could also be and sometimes even enjoyed At first sight, but his features Louis has always aspired higher and higher We can therefore think and his brutal actions in either case, As for the state, his duty above In 1679, when he learned that King Charles II of Spain he wanted to prevent an Austrian from winning and quickly offered of his brother Philippe, She was a charming young woman. She was terrified at this news. Charles II was a hideous man, Without doubt, the consequence common among the Habsburgs. She hoped that her uncle the dauphin Louis, to stay in his homeland and to become Although the king had a lot of affection an alliance with that we could shoot Louis kept the dauphin for Before her departure, the young girl but Louis remained imperturbable. He expected her and fulfills his duty Marie-Louise never returned At the court of Spain, and died ten years later, Louis' political decisions but the dynastic duty of the members In this domain, for the good of his state. When he moved the Court of Versailles or took him to the battlefields, it added to existing tensions by forcing the queen with one, two or three of his mistresses. He forced them to travel so despite the advice of doctors. Was it due that Louis didn't understand He enjoyed robust health. He was very rarely sick. He loved being outside, and insisted that the windows Madame de Maintenon put herself because he liked the windows even in winter. Louis' energy was still Known for its gluttonous behavior, he maintained the appetite of an ogre. Princess Palatine, tells how she often saw and a partridge after four plates a large salad dish, garlic mutton with sauce, and, above all, Woe to the courtiers Although he suffered who sometimes nailed him he continued to shoot even if he had to use Louis was neither ignorant nor insensitive. He was capable of experiencing but the role of Sun King Louis XIV had a formidable like no other king of France In the middle of his life he resolved the intimate conflict He succeeds in concentrating all the powers, while skillfully maintaining and moving away from dangerous Paris. He always remained torn responsible for building and his duty towards a people The next episode of our series of which the reign of Louis XIV gave shape to a rich culture, We will visit in detail with which Louis XIV dazzles and was envied by the whole world. Next, we will address the incessant During his reign, one year out of two was spent at war. Finally, we will assist its declining glory, and the state of vulnerability