A Man Took 1176 Ibuprofen Tablets In A Month. This Is What Happened To His Kidneys. SB is a 34 year old man, presenting to the and fatigue. He tells the admitting nurse that over the he'd glance back into the toilet, and it SB loved running, but sometimes his body would Must be getting too old, he thought. One day, while he was running he felt like It hurt to put any pressure on his legs. Ibuprofen was always his go to when he thought It's over the counter. People take aspirin every day and it's basically packs. Clearly, you're supposed to finish the whole why would they sell it like this? he thought, every 24 hours with an extra one just for At first, he would spread out the doses like too cumbersome, so he'd take all 7 tablets And nothing bad happened. He felt great. He wasn't sure if his legs actually hurt he thought. One night, SB had forgotten he had taken 7 He had also forgotten he took another 7 at And he forgotten he had taken 7 at dinner, for a total of 28 in a single day. As he swallowed, he felt that THESE tablets It felt like they were somehow stuck in his This isn't something to worry about, it'll went to bed. But a few hours later at 3am, SB jumped awake. Just under his chest was a terrible feeling, He wasn't sure if it was heartburn, but away. When he woke up, he wasn't sure if he was and he had pain during the night, so the &quot;How does ibuprofen know where the pain is?&quot; he thought, as he went on like this for several he bought more. But then SB noticed that he had difficulty It felt like something was in his chest but He noticed that his stools were darker than normal, almost looking like asphalt. His stomach would start to hurt like it did He'd burp, and it'd hurt and taste like One morning, SB felt especially weak. He thought it was kind of weird how every much less than the amount of liquid he drank. He felt like he had the flu, but he checked As he stumbled into the bathroom, he looked He knew he was supposed to be looking at himself, And as he burped, what came up was blood, the emergency room where we are now. At examination, there were several clues to because they had no idea of SB's He didn't tell them about it because he didn't SB's skin was pale and he had tachycardia. Tachy- meaning fast and cardia referring to His heart rate was fast, but he also had orthostatic Ortho from Ancient Greek referring to straight Static also from Ancient Greek meaning fixed standing. Hypo meaning low and tension referring to His blood pressure would suddenly decrease But why was this happening? SB told them about his hematemesis. That his stools looked like asphalt. Both of these suggest that blood somehow got His hemodynamic instability appears to be was his heart beating faster to compensate And when he stood up, there just wasn't Clearly, SB has been suffering from blood This brings us to a concept called dissolution. When you take a tablet or capsule by mouth, and absorb into the bloodstream. Do you remember that SB took some tablets way? Well, sometimes, solid medicines taken by stay there. Most of the time this shouldn't be a problem. The smooth muscle will get it down by a movement usually slide down when wet. Labels will often say take with a whole glass you should take the medicine with food, something didn't do that. He went right to bed, and laid down. The tablets that he swallowed that night stuck for some time. But that's only the start of his problems. Ibuprofen is a Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory Some times, the &quot;steroid&quot; name confuses people in bodybuilding and sports. Much more commonly in medicine, we use corticosteroids Inflammation is the immune system response the body, but sometimes inflammation goes It causes swelling when you don't want swelling. It causes fever, when you don't want fever can impact their brain. And inflammation can cause pain, so anti-inflammatory Corticosteroids are based off of cortisol, bodies to limit inflammation. Whenever you see a mention of hormones, know and that they're subject to natural feedback and maintain balance in the body. Hormone feedback can be exceptionally difficult It works in an entirely different way, which But SB didn't take a therapeutic dose, he this starts to explain all of his problems. Doctors send a camera down his throat to take in his esophagus and his stomach. These look like the canker sores in your mouth noticed that his ulcers were bleeding. They found the source of his blood loss, but This brings us back to the name &quot;non-steroidal Steroids work very generally in humans, sending But NSAIDS like ibuprofen, work very specifically. Inside almost every cell in the body is the When you get tissue damage like a cut, cyclo-oxygenase that draws the immune system in. Ibuprofen stops cyclooxygenase from working, immune system doesn't react. This should be ok, except prostaglandin does In the GI tract, it helps inhibit stomach It stimulates mucus production, and helps This explains why SB has ulcers, and why they're stuck to the inner lining of his esophagus huge amounts of ibuprofen for so many days ulcers formed, and worsened, and started to While the doctors had the camera down SB's cauterizing the ulcers, that's applying wouldn't bleed anymore. But this wasn't his only problem. When he presented to the emergency room, SB urinating a lot less than normal. When he was admitted, a blood test found that and when his ulcers were cauterized, another shut down. But this shouldn't be surprising, bringing We already established that prostaglandins We also know that prostaglandins help secrete In the kidneys, prostaglandins open up blood Because prostaglandins aren't made anymore blood cant get in to be filtered. Blood also can't get in to supply oxygen. As SB's kidneys become starved of oxygen, And this had been going on for at least a room because of the sheer amount of ibuprofen Do you remember SB thought that his ibuprofen Well, he was right in that they're both But, daily aspirin is 25% of a full dose of of ibuprofen every day. The dose makes the poison, but there's also Ibuprofen tablets take about 2 hours to go This brings us to an idea called half life. When medicine is circulating in the body, it's broken down or metabolized. Half life is the amount of time it takes for and for ibuprofen, it's 2 hours. Because he took 7 tablets 4 times every day, abnormally high for a very long time. It caused injury to the point of bleeding The blood loss caused his heart to become It constricted blood vessels going in to his and causing parts of them to start to die. This almost never happens at regular doses. Over the counter medicines can be dangerous It doesn't help that some of these medicines being misinterpreted by people as designed The label on the package will always tell When used properly, NSAIDS are effective antiinflammatories. Ibuprofen is generally more effective as an referring to pain, compared to aspirin. Blood clotting is a kind of inflammation and responsible for clotting, and they also have Aspirin is better at working with clots than cyclooxygenase, unlike ibuprofen which is The GI side effects of NSAIDS are so well aspirin, which helps limit contact with stomach caps, which don't need time for dissolution quickly absorbed. And generally these medicines aren't as and kidney side effects, for fever, you usually still be misused, but has a high therapeutic This brings us to another concept called drug Sometimes you're told if you take ibuprofen just not work for you anymore. That's not true. It's not an antibiotic where you're pitting organism evolves to evade the medicine. It's also not a habit forming medicine based off of this plant, which can create a dependency based on the body adapting to it. If you're taking NSAID for pain spread out rebound feedback mechanism, or adaptation I had to explain that to my own parents, because medicine when I was a kid. And the topic of NSAIDS can go on forever. In the context of cyclooxygenase, theres medicines that inhibit only COX-2 instead one of them is named "celecoxib," "selective prominent GI side effects bringing us back In the hospital, the medical team infused to get flow back through his kidneys. His bleeding ulcers were fixed, and the waste his kidneys had shut down was managed. Without knowing his baseline kidney function known by how much exactly his kidney function might be. But when the time arrived, massive urination as he was able to make a recovery. This case was referred to me from a Chinese really does come in 1000 tablet packs in the Every situation described in this video is misuse, which unfortunately is common. There's other situations I didn't describe NSAIDs because they saw different primary doubling up or tripling up their care. So please do your best to be aware of what taking, and how often you're taking them that are on the package label. Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself and be well.