Chris Heagle: Support for On Being with Krista Fetzer supports a movement of organizations toughest problems. Learn more at fetzer.org. Krista Tippett: I'm in conversation today but I'm not really going to talk to him Yes, he has been a singular, transformative generations -- from the Beastie Boys to Johnny Peppers, from Adele to Jay-Z -- to name just But Rick has been looking back these past process itself, and he's published his first and the ingredients by which an idea becomes alchemy forth; the mystery of it all that the ordinary mystery that creativity is a doing that beckons to us all in everything to the arranging of furniture in a room. I remember the first time I saw Rick Rubin with the then-Dixie Chicks. He sat with his eyes closed, listening with He was palpably taking them to new places reach. In this hour he offers a beautiful and accessible rest of us, too. [music: "Seven League Boots" by Zoe Keating] Rick Rubin: Our creativity doesn't come from ourselves in it. It can have all of ourselves deeply in it, But either way, we're inhabiting the things The good ones have our soul. You know, they have a piece of us in them. Tippett: I'm Krista Tippett, and this is There are some surprises in this lovely, soothing way he finds a metaphor for all of life in And he left the doors of his studio wide open of ocean waves. Tippett: So one thing Rick, I don't see much your growing up. I mean, I know you grew up in Long Beach, What is Long Beach, New York like and what Rubin: I'm an only child. It was a beautiful little beach town, about interesting place to be because you're close museums and theater and different things that have access to. Yet, I was far enough removed where that wasn't I didn't grow up in the Manhattan bubble. I grew up in a little beach town. So in some ways I grew up in the perfect place Tippett: You know, I'm always so interested a life. And you're such a fascinating and complex And, you know, I think the word &quot;spiritual&quot; But you have a view of life in which transcendence And so I just -- I wonder, where do you see planted in you in that little beach town, Rubin: Well, I think being an only child is I had a lot of time on my own and I had very time alone in my room. And I read a lot and I got interested in magic, I was probably nine years old. And when you're nine, doing a card trick or area between that. The idea that there are things that we don't sense, and as a practicing magician, creating were seeing something that they weren't seeing, and ends. And it's still blurred. Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: And I live in a world where anything of anything, regardless of how far out it Tippett: And I would say also at this point and practice of supporting that, the reality Rubin: It has turned out that way. It's really remarkable. It's remarkable to watch because I don't really in what's going on in my body and the feelings And I do my best to be as true to myself as And that's all that I've ever done and it Tippett: I think you also have a special gift right? So you also have a way of doing that communally. Rubin: It seems, yes, it has happened. Again, it's not anything I truly understand, they act differently. And most people are not used to being heard. Tippett: Yeah. So I told you when we sat down that I'm, we're career as a producer, and I would even say and beauty into the world. But I would like to ask you, just -- I mean or college? I've seen both. Rubin: That was in college. Tippett: In college. What was it that you felt needed to be in in that impulse to create that for you? Rubin: Well, I didn't know anything about Just, I was in a punk rock band and I made And then I hung out in record stores because music and get turned on to new things. And one of the record stores I hung out in And it was a tiny little shop on 99 McDougal. That's where it was. And it was down a flight of stairs and it Tiny. And I would go there and hear all this European not anything you would hear on the radio or went to the coolest of nightclubs, you might And I would hang out there. And they put out some of their own records And I would ask questions about how it was Because I spent so much time in the store, And they walked me through the process of you could have covers manufactured, and where And they were all in different places. And I would go from place to place and gather copies of my punk rock band's records. And I did that two times. And then I was going out to these underground And there was one that had hip-hop music and music that I loved. And then there started being some rap records And the rap records that came out didn't sound So I decided to start making records only documentarian. I wanted to make music that sounded like what that were being made were being made by professional was, but they were going about it the traditional different than hip-hop music. So that's sort of how it started. Tippett: You know I'm just, I'm so curious, years of being immersed in music and being musicians, I mean, it feels to me like what you wanted capture the essence of the experience. Rubin: Yes. Tippett: And how would you start to talk about where music comes from in us and what it works Rubin: It seems to have a really therapeutic I think we all want to be heard and music sometimes in a way that can't necessarily It functions different than prose or storytelling it, even without the words. So you can feel this energy and express whatever's And for young people, who have a lot of energy, all of the power of the energy that you have the case when I was a kid, or hip-hop music But it was definitely at the time, very young And it was the music of people with a lot and not really anywhere to put it. So this was a really positive place to put Tippett: It's so interesting to think about bring new forms alive, new forms of music Rubin: It's true. It keeps happening over and over again. And I will tell you when it's happening, it You know, at the time that we were making that anybody would like what we were doing. We were making things on an artisanal level That's it. The fact that it has taken on a life of its [music: "Don't Believe the Hype" by Public Tippett: And you have now been writing and And is this your first book? You haven't published a book before, have Rubin: This is my first book and I've been years now. And I, I'm so excited to finally get to share And it was a long journey for me to get to say that it's things that I know. Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: It's things that I notice and the things [laughs] So it'll come up and I'll make notes work their way into the book. And then I can look back years later now and Not because it's not accurate, but that I I don't know it, but I recognized it in that And that's, I'll say, that's similar to tend to record everything because often it Tippett: Yeah, well that's the magic, right? That's the mystery of creating. RIght. And I think that's a primary reason I write [laughs] Rubin: Yes, that's how it happened for me. Tippett: [laughs] Yeah. Rubin: And I was shocked. It remains shocking. But I'm excited that it's there and now I Tippett: Right. And you know here's the thing, you could in there I'd just kind of like to ask you "The world is the doer and we are the witness. We [likely] have little or no control over Rubin: Yes, [laughs] yes. It's happening before us. We come in as a blank slate. We may have inclinations, I imagine. But what we take in over the course of our So the world is going on and the creative We get to watch it and if we choose to, we But if we don't participate, it goes on. There's an example in the book of when we unusual -- if you have a good novel idea act on it, it is not unusual for, you know, world by someone else. And it's not because they read your mind or wanted to do. It's because it was time for that thing to And the reason you wanted to do it was the do it. It was, the culture set the stage for this And whichever of us have the best antenna And I'll say, I didn't know this, I still that the reason that things that I've made with interest is only because it was the right But I didn't act on the feeling, thinking, I acted on, it's like, now this is the time Tippett: You stepped in as it crossed your Is that a way to say it or -- ? Rubin: Yes. I think that's, I think that's realistic. I think that's realistic. And it's not intellectual, it's not based It's only based on a feeling in me of what What are the things that make me laugh? What are the things that make me excited? What do I find beautiful today that I didn't What are those things? Tippett: And that intentionality that you you just named, those are ways of nurturing through the world. Rubin: Yes. And the reason the subtitle of the book is Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: -- and it's funny, we're on On Being. [laughs] Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: The real practice of the artist is I always had assumed that it was, it was about was. But it's more than that. Yes, there is an aspect of it that's about way. But the only way to do things in a considered sensitivity and data that allows you to create You have the material to curate from. Do you know what I'm saying? Tippett: Yeah. And even if that is rearranging the furniture Rubin: Absolutely. Absolutely. Tippett: Which seems to be something you do Rubin: It's something I do. Sometimes I'll visit, if I visit a friend office before, it's not unusual for me to Tippett: [laughs] Okay. I like that, I think that word "curate" One of your points is that we all have it we're doing. Rubin: Yes. Tippett: Many of us hesitate to call those Or even -- right? And then I think even when I say -- I'm going creative, right? Which is also fraught with self-doubt and One of the things about more formal projects openness and discipline, playfulness and structure. There's all kinds of advice [laughs] about And the process of being creative and being tension with all of that, right? I think you're saying, with the getting things I think something in the way you came at this, because you said, "Awareness needs constant point of habits and rituals. Rubin: Absolutely. The practice of staying tuned in, that's one The other is the good work habits, which are between the idea of everything we're doing Tippett: Yeah, no, it's this very confusing Rubin: But I'll say that I learned something that not all of the four periods of work -- so phase, and the second phase is the experimentation and the fourth phase is the final completion And I'm a very good player [laughs] and It was always hard for me to finish projects. Tippett: [laughs] Okay, well this is good That will be helpful for people to hear. Rubin: Yes, yes. It's hard for me to finish projects because we could try and I want to try everything, So it's hard for me to get things done. What I came to realize is that there is a And it's in those first two parts of the process, Tippett: Seeding and experimenting. Rubin: ... and experimenting. Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: Those are really open. And I think the idea of saying, well, I'm to execute that idea and I'm going to finish Tippett: Implement, right. Rubin: Yeah and I'm going to finish it by Before you've collected the seeds seems like The chances of it being good seem limited. Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: But once you have the seeds and once get to the craft phase, which is where you've it gets down to the actual grunt work of bringing are worked out. There'll still be more small decisions to process all the way through. But you know what you're making and you have Tippett: You know, I think it's important I learned from the book," my understanding of thinking it, of putting words around this of working with the creative process of all own and then kind of reverse engineering: Is that right? Rubin: Yes. That is right. Tippett: When you say -- you literally were, Rubin: Yes. I realized through thinking of the phases Once I understood that, I never thought of In the past, it was always: you start and And it has to be open-ended because that's So based on that, I realized, okay, we can of ending things once we've gone through this to the point where we have things that we And now it's only a question of the final If we do that with a schedule, it's actually Whereas before I would think it would be, could be. Now, I think getting on schedule at the right Tippett: Which is probably why it's helpful Because what you're also dealing with in all is how the human condition interacts with Rubin: Yes. Tippett: I mean, of course it can go unexpectedly we are very strange and complex. And you are so attentive to how memories and at all times when we are open to this part Rubin: It's all part of it. It's all -- we never know where it's coming Sometimes we know if we're responding directly it comes from. But often the way we respond to things don't, We might not know why something makes us feel That happens -- I tell a story in the book was watching about AlphaGo. Tippett: Yes. I wanted to. Yeah. Rubin: Yeah. And it was fascinating. Tippett: And explain it. So it's this game. Rubin: It's -- Go is an ancient game. It's been played for 3000 years. It's a board game like chess, but it has more There are more possibilities in the game of It's the most difficult of all games in terms And where we've had computer chess for some of the programming community and the AI community If the AI could play the game of Go as good remarkable shift. And it was believed to be impossible. And I watched a documentary about this where to the point where they thought that it could And they had a competition between the Grandmaster And at move 37 in this game between the Master It was the computer's turn to move. If you've played Go at any point in your life, you knew that there were -- based on the two moves that the computer could make. And the computer ended up not making either basically viewed as a mistake. The Grandmaster who was playing the game got He was disgusted. Tippet: Right. Rubin: And the announcers who were the expert it screwed up. It doesn't know what it's doing. It can't be that, that's a wrong move." And then eventually the Grandmaster comes wins the game. And I hear this story and I realize that I'm And I don't understand what's going on. I don't know, why am I crying? Am I crying -- The surface answer would be, all in trouble." It's doomsday, right? That would be one... Tippett: Right. No, I want to say, I was going to ask you read. Rubin: Yes. But I didn't have that feeling at all. That's not what it was. So I'm crying. It's like, well I don't care if the machine Why am I having an emotional reaction? What's going on? And I thought about it for, I think I realized later. I was thinking about it for hours. Where is the emotion in this for me? Where's the emotion? And eventually, it clicked. It was about creativity, which I take very So that's why. I was crying because it was about creativity. And that the computer made a creative choice And the reason the computer made the creative It was actually because the computer knew The men playing knew -- not only did they knew the traditions of the game. And they knew the whole history of the game, And they knew what they learned in the school The computer was only playing by the rules norms of the game. So the fact that man's own baggage of beliefs... Tippet: Right. Rubin: ...of thinking we know best is what Tippet: Yeah. Rubin: And the computer was what showed us And I thought it was so beautiful because That means there's so much that we think we And maybe the computers can help us remove Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: ...that's stopping us. Tippett: I want to kind of come to some of that you offer, just to have a practice of about which somewhere you say the, it's about on a continual basis.&quot; And of course meditation. But also, a day walking in nature. I don't know, you've talked about before you heartbeat and the movement of your blood.&quot; And you said, "The purpose of such exercises goal of meditation isn't in the meditating. The purpose is to evolve the way we see the Rubin: Yes, and by learning to meditate when it's the nature of meditation-- your life And it changes because you're building a new A new, I'll call it like an emotional musculature, are experiencing it in this moment. And not the distractions that the world is more generous ... I don't know how to say I guess we'll go back to the curation. Just being able to see more and curate the use both in our lives and in our work. Tippett: Here's a really striking sentence in itself." Right? All of this stands in a contrast to a lot Rubin: Yes. Yeah. getting out of our own heads. Getting out of what we were told, you know? Getting out of what we were taught. Being free. Tippett: We're so purposeful. [laughs] Rubin: Yeah, being free to experiment. Tippet: Right. Rubin: Being free to have fun and experiment. And if we find a new way to do something, that's the wrong way." You know, the reason, the reason that I made the "wrong way." I didn't have the baggage of the "right Tippet: Right. [laughs] Okay. Rubin: So there's some great benefit in -- do Out of, I think I even used the word "ignorance" There's great wisdom and ignorance. [music: "Scratcher" by Blue Dot Sessions] Tippett: Okay, this is just another little And I want to say, where does this fit in, So there's the openness and then there are, Rituals are so important here, even in an with the openness and awareness, right? Rubin: Yes. Tippett: You tell this story of John Wooden. Rubin: Yes. Tippett: I guess, what was he, one of the Rubin: Yes. He was the greatest college basketball coach The most winning coach in history. And this is college-level. Tippet: Yeah. Rubin: So most of the players have been playing By the time you get to college, it's pretty Tippet: Yeah. Rubin: And so the best players from all over by the great John Wooden. And they get to practice the first day, first So these are students from all over the country, there and he spends the whole first practice And you can imagine... Tippett: Put their socks on [laughs]. Rubin: Yeah. How to put their socks on properly and how shoes. You know it's so -- And it would be like But his point was that every detail matters. And it's not the best way to do the extreme do every step, every piece leading up to it. All of the practices involved. Tippett: Right. And then I, we have to name again, well the And then when we're being creative, when we there's incredible vulnerability in that, And there are, there's what Buddhists would There's the critic over your shoulder, right? There are many different ways to talk about I mean, you know, even when you speak of the of the process before you can actually implement But experimentation also entails imperfection Rubin: And failure. Tippett: ...and failure and getting things Rubin: Yes. Tippett: And yeah. So what have you learned about how to work Rubin: It's helpful to think in terms of: We're here to play. We're here to have fun. And to use the feedback of, you know, sometimes to where you're going. So if you try to solve a problem 10 ways and failure or you can decide, okay, I'm now 10 I've ruled out those 10. And that really is our work is we're constantly We're trying things with no expectation. That's another part of it is like, let's try think it's going to work or we hope it's going No. We don't work like that. We work where we're having fun trying things Let's see what makes us want to try it again. You know, what's the most fun version of the Or what's the most interesting version of And when it happens, it's exciting when it Tippet: Yeah. Rubin: And sometimes it's like fishing. You bait the hook and you throw the line in you're waiting and nothing happens. And we can't control that. The only thing we can control is deciding, I catch the amount of fish that I want. I can't control the time schedule that that'll But I know the only chance of me catching I catch three fish. Tippett: Well, so I -- something that is hope, I endeavor to be able to create more act. And I'm very drawn and driven to do this, doing it. And an experience I have had again and again in those early stages -- that I have learned written. And sometimes I will write something, and too, about writing something. And I think, and it's almost if I think immediately, That's it." It's not. It will be the thing that I will look at and And then there will be these quiet paragraphs a great accomplishment that later will be So there's this inability to judge -- Rubin: Yes. Tippett: To assess, which is really unnerving. Rubin: Yes, absolutely. One thing I would suggest, hearing that story, don't look back at it. Just write. And at some point down the road, after you've and start reading it. Hopefully by the time you forgot what you've Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: And then see what's good, because you'll you know, you won't be the writer anymore. You'll be the reader. Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: And I think when we're the writer, But in time we can become the reader. Tippett: Yes. And I know also that, you know, I've seen speak of working with you, there are documentaries that -- and I think mean we all have this trying to be creative -- our shadows arise. Our emotions... Rubin: Yes, absolutely. Tippett: ...can get out of control. And you end up working absolutely very intentionally. And here's some things you wrote that just you were talking about memories. Because they're with us and they become raw be thought of as dream-like." Because in fact, they are "more a romantic You also kind of, I don't know, prescribe on a pillow for five minutes or keeping a I mean, are those practices that you learned, of being present with creativity and to so Rubin: Yes, and I've done a lot of work on and studied a lot. And I'm a very sensitive person. So one of the things that I get by working in that we're feeling things that not everybody And they could be very painful. And for someone who's less sensitive can view don't understand. I know, I can, I won't name the names, but band, one of the great bands of all time. And two of the members of the band have different One of them is very intellectual and the other So they're experiencing the same info -- data And one reacts in an intellectual way, and And they can't even talk about it because languages. And the band has broken up because they can't And to some degree, that's the case with all We all do our best to communicate with each language is accurate enough for it to really And it's one of the beautiful things about If I tell you a story, you are hearing it experiences will give that story, my story, than mine. It's true too with getting advice. You know, when we get advice from people, They're giving us advice based on their life I can give you an example in my life. I've been lucky to be around some very successful Tippett: Right. Rubin: Thirty years older than me, experts And all of their advice is their best advice. And it's really good and really honest and it's not. Not because their intentions are bad, but their life experience and their advice is And mine's different. And all of ours is different. So, so many of our problems have to do with other, or not really under -- or first not each other. Tippett: And I think something that's weaving to say becoming, but giving yourself over is a creative life, gets intertwined with Rubin: Yes. Tippett: I mean, I was watching, I think it's Rubin: Yes. Tippett: Maybe for his podcast and just mentioning Rosenberg video about non-violent communication, that that would be part of the making of a Right? Rubin: No, it was unusual. [laughs] It's not standard. But it's standard in the way that -- the we're friends hanging out and talking about And through that, things get unlocked that closer to the core. And that's the goal with all of this. [music: "Scam the Public" by subtext] Tippett: Some of this comes back to the, what is the work of a lifetime developing "beginner's Presence, awareness, which then allows one and fascinated and learning. And I wanted to ask you, as I was walking and that is the ultimate witness to a new of a life, and of a mind. Rubin: Yes. Tippett: And I'm just curious about how this all of this. Rubin: I'll say, it's just really fun. I don't know yet -- at this point, I can't life, but I'll say it's really fun and he Tippett: Yes. Rubin: And you can see, and he'll also get If something goes wrong, he'll really react. And you can really see the humanity in him, He hasn't learned yet how grown-up people So the way he's reacting is purely an inborn Do you know what I'm saying? There is no wrong in that. It's a pure reaction. Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: He's not second-guessing himself. He's not comparing which version to go with. It's a pure reaction, and it's real, and it's And I guess what I'll say is I'd love to be Tippett: Yeah, and don't you think that also we become parents that we get to walk, we to walk alongside childhood again. Rubin: Absolutely. Tippett: Something you talk about a lot is I mean it's both -- you speak of it overtly, The seeds and the experimentation and this And that contrasts with what we feel we're I think for me, my children with this, these spiritual virtues, and all the traditions, Rubin: Yes. Tippett: They actually -- what I think I presence, right? Because, and a child is, it can take an hour they're paying such close attention to everything. And so it takes as long as it takes. Rubin: Yes. Tippett: It's about being amazed at everything right? At everything and everyone else. Rubin: Yes. And the image of the child walking and picking to them or wanting to stop and look at it, And I think what patience is really about And I think a child's relationship to time I think we have a... Tippett: Yes. Rubin: We've put an overlay of an expectation And that also goes for the time that we put Most of us think if I get a project to a certain another six hours, or if I work on that project project for another six months, well it's better. And that's not the case. Tippet: [laughs] Right. Rubin: There is no connection between the is. Now, that doesn't mean that it happens quickly. Sometimes it happens quickly and sometimes Sometimes it takes forever. Tippet: Right. Right. Rubin: So again, it's all complicated because It's -- you need great patience. And we have no control over time. And putting time into something isn't what And you have to give everything all the time be. All of that's true. Tippett: Yeah. [laughs] And I think maybe the point, or just that the core discipline is constantly refreshing an end in itself" -- I'm quoting you -- is How we orient ourselves to this is what matters, Rubin: Absolutely. And if we pick a practice like deciding we're a beautiful practice. How is it similar day-to-day? How is it different day-to-day? Making the commitment that we're going to the sun setting every day. It's a beautiful practice. And there's a million to choose from [laughs], And that's, when I talk about sustainable train in the gym for three hours a day. I know, knowing myself, that's not going to Tippet: Right. Rubin: So I can make the commitment, I can too tired or hurt to be able to continue, Tippet: Yeah. Rubin: So the sustainable part of the practice Start with something where you can do -- I'm to do three deep breaths. I'm going to pray before eating. It's easy to do if you choose that. Right? I'm going to do a three-minute meditation key it off of. Oh, there's a beautiful book, a teacher named that, his big book is called The Gene Keys. And in one of his books he teaches a meditation, where you do one minute of awareness practice So you do it at noon, at three, at six, at You know, if you're awake, you do -- and on, even if you're driving, you can still driving. You don't have to pull over to do it. Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: It's just really being, you know, knowing It's beautiful. It's a beautiful practice. Tippett: It's also how Muslims who have this This rhythm. Rubin: Yes. Tippett: This prayer. This way the day is then, it's structured Rubin: Yes. Tippett: So I mean think we've circled back You use the language of the ecstatic. The magic is what we're back at, right? Rubin: Yes. Tippett: We're dealing in a magic realm. This is, nobody knows why or how it works. And I've spoken, oh, across the years to various, I remember Rosanne Cash saying to me -- but ways -- it's like, it's not like you write It's like you catch the songs. Rubin: Yes. Tippett: It's like, and that if you don't Rubin: Yes. It's channeling. Tippett: And you've seen that a lot? Rubin: It's how it all happens. All of it happens magically and automatically. And the stories we tell ourselves about us We're part of it. If we're not there, it doesn't happen through Tippett: Right. Rubin: We're definitely a piece of it, but Tippett: I would like to lightly touch down to me [laughs]. Rubin: [laughs] That's so funny. Tippett: Which somehow you make a metaphor So please, [laughs]. Okay? Rubin: Okay. Wrestling is a -- it's an American art form. It's a unique American art form where like on and it's often good versus evil in these And unlike, let's say, boxing, the two performers working together to put on the best show that No one is trying to hurt anybody else. As a matter of fact, they're trying to protect That's their job, is to protect the other So from a non-violent standpoint, I like watching Tippett: It's theater. Yeah. Rubin: Yes. It's pure theater. All it is is theater. And there's something interesting because playing themselves, but they're a character. And so real life... Tippett: [laughs] Right. Rubin: ...bleeds into the stories. So it's scripted and someone gets injured. Not because anyone's trying to injure, but So someone's leg gets broken. And now as a fan, we're wondering, okay, is leg broken in the story? Tippett: Right. Rubin: Because we never know. Yes, it's a plot point in the story, but we real. Because when real things happen, they work They have to because if someone's going to So it's funny because people don't like wrestling But that, what I just described, where we're in the world -- Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: And where real life interferes with never really know when we see a story on TV, know where's the performance and where's the Where's the crossover? Tippett: Yeah, it's brilliant. And sometimes we're playing ourselves and Rubin: Absolutely. We don't know. So I say I love wrestling. One of the reasons is it's the closest thing This fake sport is the closest thing to what More so than the news or a documentary [laughs] is what's really happening. Tippett: That's great. If I asked you, this is a huge question, so right now. Just start answering, like through this life things you've learned. How does your understanding of what it means now, today? Rubin: I had some feelings this morning. Let's see if I can remember what I was feeling Because I feel like it's related to this, I mean, the odds that I'd be thinking about Is that so many of the examples I'm giving maybe that story's not the right story. There's a different story. And now I think maybe all there is is stories. And to think about which is the right story And to enjoy the story that speaks to you. And that's really all we do anyway. I mean regardless. Do you know what I'm saying? We don't have to convince anyone of anything. We can just enjoy what we enjoy. And I guess being human is enjoying what we Tippett: Here's a last koan, it's the last to you, but I just love this so much. And it's mysterious. It gets at that magic thing. "Not all projects take time, but they do Rubin: Yes. And that speaks to the fact that everything learned and done. We're not -- our creativity doesn't come All of everything in us comes from somewhere And we get to take those elements, and I think We have this information, and we get it, and it back to the world. And sometimes we re-present it back to the And it's exciting. And someone else can see the thing that we in that form. And that inspires them to make something -- it oh, it doesn't have to be the way I thought Tippett: Yeah. Rubin: It's being inspired by a way of seeing choices are wider than I thought. I was going straight really fast and then I didn't know you could make a left turn. Maybe I can make a right turn. I haven't seen anyone do that. Maybe I can go up, maybe I can go down. But once someone breaks the straight line, possibilities for everyone else. Tippett: And the totality of our lifetimes whether we know it or not. Rubin: Absolutely. That's where it comes -- it comes from everything It can have all of ourselves deeply in it, But either way, we're inhabiting the things The good ones have our soul. They have a piece of us in them. [music: "Eventide" by Gautam Srikishan] Tippett: Rick Rubin's book is The Creative He is co-founder of the record label Def Jam Records. He is also one of the hosts of the podcast, The On Being Project is: Chris Heagle, Lauren Lucas Johnson, Suzette Burley, Zack Rose, Padraig O Tuama, Gautam Srikishan, April Nehme, Cameron Mussar, Kayla Edwards, Juliana On Being is an independent nonprofit production We are located on Dakota land. Our lovely theme music is provided and composed Our closing music was composed by Gautam Srikishan. And the last voice that you hear singing at Our funding partners include: The Hearthland Foundation. Helping to build a more just, equitable and a time. The Fetzer Institute, supporting a movement to society's toughest problems. Find them at fetzer.org. Kalliopeia Foundation. Dedicated to reconnecting ecology, culture, Supporting organizations and initiatives that Earth. Learn more at kalliopeia.org. The Osprey Foundation -- a catalyst for empowered, And the Lilly Endowment, an Indianapolis-based, founders' interests in religion, community