From unexplained vibrating spheres to an ancient of the strangest artifacts to ever be found.... 10. The Betz Mystery Sphere On May 26th, 1974, the Betz family were looking their land near Jacksonville, Florida, when It was just less than 8 inches in diameter, The only mark on its surface was a triangular They immediately knew there was something so they took it back home. From there things got weird. A few weeks later, the son was strumming his a similar way to a tuning fork. It also started emitting a high frequency Then they found that, when they rolled it then roll in a different direction. Furthermore, it responded to weather- becoming The family started hiding it away in a bag Was it a downed satellite of some sort? Did it belong to NASA, or was it a Soviet The sphere became notorious, but has never The US Government said it didn't belong But, it was kind of similar to a sea bottom by giving them a reference point. Some think it's an alien probe, others that Perhaps the most logical answer is that it In any case, the location of the sphere is Imagine if the proof of extraterrestrial intelligence 9. The Holy Right Hand On August 15, 1038, St. Stephen, the first and then moved to an underground catacomb When this happened, someone decided to remove have miraculous properties, and it was put Ironically, the guard in charge of protecting in his estate. The thief was forgiven (miraculously!) and to his burial place at some point in the 16th It is now housed in St. Stephen's Basilica is paraded as a part of the Holy Right Hand witness it. There's some confusion as to whether this Earlier descriptions mention it wearing a the king, but this ring is nowhere to be seen. Furthermore, the coat of arms, where the hand hand- so where did St. Stephens arm end up, In 2000, the hand and the arm were put on a fibula from a right leg. With religious artifacts, it's hard to tell kinds of destruction. Who knows where his hand might be? One thing's for sure, there are bits and world. And now for the Amazing Aluminum Wedge, but so you don't miss out on the latest vids!! For you returning subs, welcome back! I missed you!! 8. The Aiud Aluminum Wedge The Aiud Aluminum wedge was found in a trench In itself, this wouldn't be particularly found, and the tests results from analyzing It was discovered next to a set of mastodon it would be 11,000 years old. The surrounding rocks and sediment suggest years old. The wedge was sent for much testing, and was of copper, silicon, zinc, lead, and a number Scientists believe it is not a natural formation. The results of dating were the most interesting, wasn't anywhere near as old as the mastodon it was about 400 years old. This still predates Aluminum manufacturing that could be possible, and why it ended up Some people argue that it is a fragment of Because...why not?? 7. The Klerksdorp Spheres The Klerksdorp spheres are a series of objects Ottosdal, South Africa, from pyrophyllite old. They range in size between a quarter of an them have clear, defined grooves and ridges Some are spherical, and some are flattened brown to a dusky red colour. The spheres have been subject to much debate been naturally formed. Some claim that they are evidence of intelligent of years ago, and that they could even be Tests on the spheres, though, support the processes- the grooves occurred when minerals the shapes are formed as a result of weathering Nature can make perfect shapes too!! 6. The Ubaid Lizard Man Very little is known about the ancient Ubaidian 5500 and 4000 BC. I mean, it was a long time ago! What we do know is that they lived in mud settlements, and that they used irrigation It was a discovery made during excavation some small sculptures, which have become known They have long heads, oval eyes, tapered faces, They are all depicted in different positions, like and suckling milk. With so little known about the Ubaidians, are meant to represent. Were they ritualistic objects dedicated to of the people themselves? It's clear that there's a lot more to that we know of, and plenty more secrets to 5. Four Golden Hats In the past 200 years, 4 golden hats have bronze age! As of yet, no-one knows who made them, why The first to be discovered was the Golden in 1835. It seemed to have been intentionally buried, 1 foot (30.5 cm) tall. It has a number of concentric rings and other at some point between 1400 and 1300 BC. Two more hats have been found in Germany, All of them are different shapes and sizes, first one that was unearthed. There are several suggestions as to what they to suits of armour. Researchers currently believe they were owned to astrological events that they would have most importantly, when to harvest. Further research is needed to fully understand many more just waiting to be found. 4. The Coso Artifact In February of 1961, the owners of a California the mountains near Olancha, California. They collected a bunch of rocks and it turns When they were sawing open the rocks, one that they were using. And instead of revealing an empty cavity like a hard, porcelain-type material. It was a perfect cylinder of porcelain and metal that turned out to be magnetic!! So what the heck was this object? The outer layer of specimen was encrusted would have taken more than half a million There were other metal objects in the crust surrounding the porcelain. This seemed to be a human-made object, so metals all doing together? The porcelain and the magnetic metal couldn't But what was it? And how did it get to be inside the rock? There are no convincing answers to explain been allowed to to inspect the object. 2 of the discoverers are deceased and the The whereabouts of the object are unknown This is a mystery that will probably be left 3. The Dropa Stones In 1938, a expedition set off to explore a mountains on the border of China and Tibet. Near the summit of the mountains they found with images of people with elongated heads In the ground, researchers found a number Inside, they found unusual skeletons that skulls, but the strangest things (and most known as the Dropa stones. These spherical disks were 12 inches in diameter, spiralled outwards. In total, 716 of these stones have been found, out to be intricate carvings. The professor who studied these stones in language, the stones told the story of alien became stranded on the planet. The professor was forced to resign and the There none available for public viewing although In any case, the findings in the cave could but further research has proved to be impossible. 2. Ritual Cat Claws Another little known civilisation, known as Peru about 1,500 years ago. Their lands stretched for 215 miles, and they the countryside. In some cases they look more like hills after There are also a number of temples and tombs, 2014. Built for a 30 year old man, this tomb at Huaca de la Luna, had some very strange artifacts Alongside his body was a copper sceptre, bronze but what stood out most were pieces that looked The claws are made from metal, and are thought was worn in ceremonial combat. The trove of artifacts that were found show but without any written records surviving don't know about the mysterious Moche civilisation. 1. Egyptian Spellbook One of the most mysterious and intriguing of Ritual Power'. Dating back to ancient Egypt, this book was the rituals and traditions of the most renowned It's about 1,300 years old, and is written The 20 pages of parchment, known as a codex, treatments and even how to exorcise evil spirits. There are lots of different incantations, come true. For example, one spell, used to subjugate two nails, and then for them to be driven It's not entirely clear who would have used written by an Egyptian Christian group known They rose to prominence in Egypt during the Adam and Eve's third son, Seth. The book also references another spiritual "great power and a ruler of forces in the No other mention of Baktiotha has ever been Handbook may never truly be known- whether for good, or for evil. Thanks for watching!!