- This is a mechanical circuit, which is to say it's a collection of mechanical components that together are a really robust analogy You've got resistors, ammeters, batteries, inductors. It's really incredible what and for me, it's really about electrical circuits I can feel voltages and see currents. It's called Spintronics. There's They're not paying me at I want to be clear about that, but when I saw the Kickstarter, I just knew I had to make a video about it because I love an analogy. Let's have a look at So this is the battery and the two are joined When I charge up the battery the battery then discharges What's really cool is you like this one, which is a hundred ohms, has a certain amount of resistance. This one, which is 200 ohms, You can feel it in your hands and look, when you put the 200 in at half the speed of when So the speed of the chain is You can connect two and the chain moves even more slowly. You can also connect That's a bit counterintuitive at first, because it kind of looks but this is what a series looks like in a Spintronics circuit. It's a bit like the analogy that you often hear when talking but instead of water being it's a chain that's being pulled and it's pulling on different components. This is probably a good time to address the Veritasium-shaped You probably saw his video where he talks about how electronic circuits really work. It's the one about the circuit that's a light second in length. It's a really important 'cause he did a followup if you haven't already 'cause They're important videos to keep in mind what's really going on beneath the models that we have in our heads of how things work. In the videos, he explains that the energy in a circuit is carried by the electric and magnetic fields that hug the wires and components of the circuit, and that kind of puts the lie doesn't it, because if you only have that water flowing through then you're thinking, at this end of the pipe, next to it, which pushes which pushes on the water next to it, until this bit of water falls and that bit of water And if that's the only then you might think, well, I'm pushing the electrons with a voltage through this end of the wire, in front of it, which pushes until eventually these they can be pushed out but that's not how it works. The energy is carried by the though to be fair to the electrons, those electric and magnetic so it is kind of fair to that are carrying the energy. It's just that they're in the way that the water in a pipe model might lead you to believe. But to make a broader philosophical point, everything we know in Even quantum mechanics is just a model, and it's wrong in the sense that we know it's not a true because it doesn't play but we still use quantum mechanics because it's insanely accurate So you might have the of electric circuits in your to know that underneath and magnetic fields that But even that's a model, right? I mean it's models all the way down. But the point is when you pick the model that for the thing that you are doing. This mechanical circuit model so let's explore some of those. This is the Spintronics The more you try and turn it, in the same way that the into an actual capacitor, and look, you can even see so you can see how charged up it is. Actually this doubles as a volt meter, so the numbers here are in volts. A quick note on units, actually. this says a hundred ohms, but actually it's a hundred spin ohms, What's really nice is to the real things. Like if we say that 10 is equivalent to one coulomb of charge, then all these other values like spin ohms and spin volts and they're all equivalent Look what happens if I connect a resistor and a capacitor to the battery. You might think that these once the capacitor is charged through both the capacitor That's because this is So how do you achieve parallel Well, you need junctions, and actually junctions with Spintronics than they Well, that's because in electric circuits. Look, here's a junction. but this is a junction in Spintronics. It's actually like a If I hold this still, If I hold this one still, these two move. If I hold this one still, these two move. That means whatever voltage you apply to the bottom sprocket of the top two sprockets, So remember when I had these they span at the same rate, The current through will be the same, but look. When I put them in parallel, spins much more quickly and We expect a greater current to flow through the lower resistor. Remember, these capacitors so if I put a volt meter in then I'm measuring the That's pretty cool, isn't it? One thing that's nice about a junction is you can feel the voltage. If I hold the top sprocket of I can feel it pushing against me. That's the voltage. Another cool thing about junctions is that you can use them as a transformer. In this circuit, this resistor is attached to the junction twice, and is attached to the remaining sprocket. Powering this with my hand, I but the resistor turns at half the speed. That's mechanical advantage. So transforming voltages in Spintronics is actually a lot easier You can easily do it with DC, whereas with electrical circuits, you need alternating current. There's even something a device that indicates how much current is flowing. It doesn't give you a reading. Instead it gives you a pitch. All along this rim, there If I scrape it with my nail, Under here, there's a to this gramophone amplifier. So the faster this thing (meter playing high-pitched tone) If I add it to this circuit here, that gives you a sense of If I put it against this smaller resistor, the pitch goes up. In series with a capacitor, you can hear how current flows but slows down as it gets full. With this setup, I can the capacitor with these two switches. This is probably my favorite This is what an electrical It's a coil of wire and how For me, it was one of those things that wasn't super easy An inductor resists but once there is a current, it resists the reduction of current. It's all mediated by magnetic fields, but with this Spintronics analogy, it's all about inertia and momentum, which is really intuitive. Because of these weights around here, it's hard to get the thing spinning, and once it's spinning, Connecting an inductor to a capacitor really gives a nice intuition and how they might behave in a circuit. Because it's hard to stop current flowing through an inductor, it can cause damage to your circuit if it's not designed well. In fact, the same thing happens This is a switch here the inductor receives power. It eventually spins up and when I turn the switch off. It destroys the switch. If you have a problem then you add a resistor in parallel. So now when I turn the switch off, the inductor can dump its By the way, if there's nothing it spins like crazy, which if you connect the two The battery will overheat because of the immense flow of current through it. There's a little to prevent damage to If there isn't anything connected, or if you make a circuit like this and you realize that to this part of the junction. Actually that illustrates about Spintronics, are by default closed circuits. If you charge up a regular from the circuit, it holds its charge. But look, if I charge up and then let go, it discharges. So unless a Spintronics to something else, it's This is really cool. It's a transistor. Look, no current can flow because of these clamps clamping But if I apply a small it opens up these clamps and You might know that you can use a transistor as an amplifier. So a small voltage applied up here can lead to a large Here it is in a circuit. This capacitor that's is showing the small change in voltage that I'm supplying with my fingers. This capacitor/volt meter is showing the much bigger amplified You can even make a diode by connecting a transistor to itself via a junction. Look, it will spin one just like a diode. So let's see if we can build This is a peak voltage detector. So I can apply a voltage and this capacitor/volt meter but this capacitor/volt the peak voltage. Because this pair of the capacitor won't discharge What's brilliant about all this is I can feel it as it happens. It's really intuitive. Spintronics actually comes with so look, here's a simplified The diode works by a You can turn it in one This is a high pass filter, into the circuit with my I can do it at high frequency, I can do it at low frequency, and a high pass filter will filter out the low frequency signals, leaving the high frequency signals. But how does it do that? Well, this is an inductor You can think of an for low frequencies and DC. After all, DC is just very low frequency. So if I try and turn this once the inductor spins a short circuit and none of that DC signal will get through to the ammeter. An inductor is a bit like a circuit break for high frequency signals. So if I move this thing then we do hear it at the ammeter because it doesn't have much To make a low pass filter, you replace the inductor with a capacitor. A capacitor is like a short but a circuit break for low frequencies. This is an oscillating for something in your Spintronics world. Here's a fun story. When I was 18, I wrote a scientific paper and got it published in a journal. That sounds more impressive At the time, my physics said something like, &quot;You I could probably get it published in Physics Education Journal.&quot; They had this section so that's what it was, but that I got a paper But the idea was this. If you get a charged directly to an equivalent then half the charge will and end up in the uncharged capacitor. They reach equilibrium with each other. What's surprising is if of those two capacitors you have exactly half the But where does that energy go? I had this idea that instead think about tanks of water. So you have one tank of water that's full and another that's at the bottom with a pipe. When you open that pipe, water will flow from the full tank to the But actually because of momentum, and the second tank will and then it will relax down again and it will oscillate until they have an equal But every time the water it loses energy through friction and that's where the energy goes. Electrons in a circuit don't have momentum in a meaningful way, but the do have stray inductance, if the same thing would If I charge up one capacitor will they oscillate backwards and forwards until they both have half with just the stray And look, there they go. They do oscillate backwards and forwards. Not for long because of stray resistance in but it's nice to have my What about a full bridge rectifier? Can we make one of those? A full bridge rectifier converts As you can see here, as I supply AC here, you get DC at the load here. It's not very smooth but you can fix that with a couple of capacitors. I only have two diodes, which in simulation, but you can make a full bridge The reason you can do it with Spintronics but not with regular electric circuits is because with Spintronics, to change the direction of current, which it isn't in normal circuits. Depending on how you chain up a junction, you can flip the What about computation? Could we use this to build Well, look, here's a flip flop. When I turn this switch on, it registers at this volt meter but when I switch it off, This switch puts the and so I can flip flop between the two. This is an XOR logic gate. If switch one is on, we get If switch two is on, we get But if both switches are on, we don't. So maybe we could use this stuff to build a binary adder like I did If I ever get that working, but in the meantime, is Is there a really cool circuit that you would like to see Let me know in the comments. Thanks to Paul from Spintronics for all his help with this video. And thanks to Mr. Parkinson for being just a brilliant physics teacher. VPNs can be really useful. I recommend the one I use, They're sponsoring this video. A VPN encrypts your web traffic and hides your IP address. Without a VPN, your network administrator, and depending on where you the websites you visit. Probably not the content because that's encrypted with SSL usually, but typically they can and build up a profile of you. With Private Internet Access, and so your digital life Here's another use case. I was in Spain at the end of summer and we wanted to keep watching a show on a streaming service that is notoriously difficult to get working and it worked flawlessly One thing I found quite was trying to do any like trying to buy to the UK, for example, was really hard, 'cause websites were always redirecting me to the Spanish version. I can't speak or read Spanish. If you have any kind of home it can be insanely useful into thinking you are at home. When you connect your device to a VPN, you can choose which And with Private Internet Access, you can choose from over 83 countries and every single US state. They also have a no log policy and recently verified But the reason I choose PIA is because all their software is open source. I'm not suggesting that everyone who uses Private Internet Access should audit the software on GitHub, but it is out there so It's a level of transparency that I value. The deal on this one's really good. If you go to my special you'll get 82% off. That's just $2 11 cents a month and you get three months With one subscription, you and since it comes with a and 24/7 customer support, The link is also in the description so check out Private I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and the algorithm thinks (upbeat music)