Deep in the heart of the Pacific, the island of Tinian that will mark the end In total secrecy, a completely unknown weapon It's over ten feet long, cost around two billion dollars, It disappears into the hold, Little Boy, history's first-ever atomic bomb. At 2:00 in the morning, an elite team Colonel Paul Tibbets One possible target is Hiroshima, In this one final attack, America claims it will end the war For the land of the rising sun, Hiroshima is a base and home to garrisons In a city decimated by nuclear fire, will capture on film the moments For the first time, the hell that it was to be there It's Monday, For its 350,000 inhabitants, It's rush hour. The trams are packed The kids are on their way to school. I was on the second floor We opened all the windows and said: &quot;What a fine day.&quot; In the morning, Just as I was about to leave, That day, Like every day at 7:10, However, for 45 minutes now, Everyone's used to seeing No one's too bothered It was a bright, sunny day. Those B-29s They were silver and so neat. As I was walking towards Sendamachi, Then suddenly, came in through the windows. I tried to crouch down, Right over the Tsuchiya Hospital, At 8:15, Little Boy explodes They call this point The sky lights up All living beings are blasted with no time As the chain reaction unfolds, At its center, the temperature as hot as the surface of the sun. The heat just carbonizes everyone. They just vanish in the heat. A shock wave then arises in a devastating wind A killer wind that blows bodies apart In a whirlwind of wind, a mushroom-shaped cloud forms, towering seven and a half miles high I didn't see the mushroom cloud. I was right under it. My body was blown away The next moment, I lost consciousness. Obviously, I was knocked unconscious. When I came to, it was really dark. I couldn't see 100 meters in front of me. It's just after the blast. Sunao Tsuboi miraculously shielded Seventy thousand others For nearly two miles, around 90 percent Huge fires are raging It was so dark that I could hardly see and she was right next to me. She was holding my hand, so I realized Neither of us. Yoshito Matsushige is 32 years old, a photographer embedded with the military press corps. When the bomb goes off, he's less than two miles away at home with his pregnant wife. They're just finishing their breakfast. Where the wind came through, Right through both floors of the house I pulled my camera out of the debris and put on the clothes I got ready and went out. Yoshito wants to get but the shockwave The streets are nothing but debris, and people with dreadful wounds. It's impossible to go any further so he turns back It was such an awful scene Not for at least 20 minutes. I eventually took a photo, then went in a few feet closer but the viewfinder I still remember that to this day. It was just hell. Here they are, Yoshito Matsushige's two photos taken on the 6th of August, 1945, just three hours after the bomb went off. They're the very first photos the victims of the first atomic bomb There on the bridge, and just how violent the explosion was. He will write in his memoirs that he was born The wounded, It was as if they wanted me what was happening to them. Was it cruel of me to photograph them, or was it the best thing I could do? I was in terrible conflict. Matsushige's photos, preserved here in Hiroshima should never, in fact, have existed. In Japan, during the Second World War, it was an offense to photograph events However, unbeknownst to the authorities, The negatives were seriously deteriorated However, in the 1970s, painstaking restoration work What did they really go through, these people preserved Who are they? What do they remember? Scarcely a word has been written about it. However, the wounded photographed have been identified. Their average age now Only two of them are left. However, ten other eyewitnesses For the purposes a team of specialists has availed itself We must stick to what When the images were scanned, hitherto invisible to the naked eye. Like these bodies here on the ground. Or this parapet By recreating the scene in 3-D, the photos have been brought back to life. The better to understand in the heart of the mushroom cloud. Hiroshima means the big island. It lies beside the Pacific Ocean. The many branches of the River Ota It's almost like a floating city, but when it gets so hot there's no way out of the trap. In the midst of all the frenzy, the Miyuki Bridge It stood right at the edge of the fires a mile and a half from the hypocenter. It was the bridge between life and death. On the Miyuki Bridge, Matsushige's photos The time has now come, though, The survivors arrive at the Miyuki Bridge bearing all the scars of what The young girl next to the little boy Another's clothes are in tatters Off to the side, Did they flee like that with no shoes, If you put the photos side by side, you notice one figure A young girl in school uniform. Her name is Mitsuko Kouchi. Here in 1945, she's 13 years old. She's in her second year She's under a mile from ground zero. Today, she's over 80. She still lives in Hiroshima. Mitsuko Kouchi remembers everything In the photo, she's wearing a scarf who works at the Yamaguchi Police Station. It's not part Her sleeve is torn My friend ran over and clung to me. She said: &quot;Mitsuko, my head is cracked.&quot; I looked and she was covered in blood. Since she was clinging on to me, When the bomb goes off, She's been requisitioned The shock wave hits the building The building withstands it, and the flying glass The building that follow the explosion. Six of the young girls somehow make it Mitsuko Kouchi is overwhelmed No one was talking. I didn't see anyone talking. Everyone was in silence, facing downwards. Some were crying in pain. Everyone looked like monsters. Some got burnt on their faces. That looked terrible. He didn't look human. Half his body was covered in blood. Anyone not fully clothed ended up naked. They were everywhere, They might have been a bit embarrassed, For the 13-year-old girl, the Miyuki Bridge What Mitsuko Kouchi tells us, she has kept deep inside A woman who was holding a child. She had her hair held up I suppose She was screaming and swirling around, I felt so sorry. The child was dead. She cried out a name, and said: &quot;Wake up, wake up!&quot; Of course, the baby never woke up. All we saw was a charred body. Mitsuko has thought of that mother Every single day. She can't forgive herself Confusion reigns on the Miyuki Bridge It is three hours since the bomb went off. The wounded are crowding in, wanting to get across When Yoshito Matsushige no one knows the explosion I don't remember who was there, I wondered why would this person At that time, a man in national uniform Naturally, it felt strange I remember he asked me: What really happened that morning Witnesses tell us are parched with thirst. Some of them throw themselves and soothe their wounds, The Ota fills up with bodies. While up on the bridge, For what? That man in a cap in front of Mitsuko, Why is this man touching his feet? This container, what's in it? There, a man lifts his head He appears to have a shaved head. What is he waiting for? That is Mr. Tsuboi. He is the other person His testimony is precious because he knows on the Miyuki Bridge. Mr. Tsuboi's face still bears the scars He was 20 years old. On that day, and he's walking along the street. When the bomb explodes, he's three-quarters of a mile The radiation burns his face. His back is bleeding, In the street, he sees a man Another, with his eye hanging out. In the face of all this horror, and heads for the bridge. According to Mr. Tsuboi, everyone on the bridge They brought rapeseed oil there. It's a cooking oil. You couldn't put it on everyone. People were daubing themselves with their arms in the bucket. That canister An emergency first aid remedy for burns. The man in the foreground Mr. Tsuboi tells us, who'd been instructed Further back another man is doing his best at this thankless task. However, there are just too many people and the precious rapeseed oil It's replaced with thick, dark sump oil hastily appropriated They started using that They covered themselves in it They really look like monsters. However, it's not enough. Here in this makeshift hospital, and starting to give up on life. Over to one side, her arms covered in dreadful burns, We can make out the legs of others with no strength left to fight. There was nothing more to be done. Those who were going to die, died. The others kept on living. There on the Miyuki Bridge, Mr. Tsuboi feels his end is near. His identity papers are all burned, so he's worried that if he dies, Never returned to his parents. As the dying people around him look on, he scratches a message Thinking my life would end at 20, Thinking no one will help me, Lonely. Maybe futile would be a better word. We were hardly capable ourselves, How could we do anything Those who were dying said: Many people died at Miyuki Bridge. Many people came to the Miyuki Bridge Many just came there to die. This summer of 1945, the children have been sent away The youngest ones were the first to go. Yet many of the wounded look like children or teenagers. Here, a young girl with long hair. Beside her, a boy with a shaven head. These girls and boys they're wearing school uniforms, surely. Back there, this boy, half-naked and alone, what's he doing there? Did all Hiroshima's school kids On the Miyuki Bridge, I don't remember but they looked like schoolgirls and boys. Maybe seventh or eighth graders, Most likely they were college students. Mitsuo Kodama, who was 13 at the time, pays his respects who never had a chance to grow up. The bomb goes off just half a mile Like all his classmates, and he faints. However, the fact that doesn't of itself explain the large number The kids a year older than me Japan is at war Behind the lines, life goes on. From the age of 12 or 13, teenagers are drafted The girls contribute to the war effort or as tram conductors. This August though, Hiroshima's young and dangerous task. To prevent firebomb attacks, buildings were being torn down We were doing something These young people retrieving stones from the buildings Swelling the ranks of young people In a radius of just over a mile there are more than 8,000 of them. Many students were mobilized, 60 percent of those within 1,000 meters were killed. For some years now, Professor Keiko Otani of the Hiroshima bomb. Her studies confirm and the conclusions drawn At Hiroshima on the 6th of August, 22 percent of the victims Most of them between 13 and 14 years old. When you see from this diagram it drives home On the morning of the sixth, is helping with the demolition work. She has a tummy ache. She's lying under a tree With serious wounds to her face, towards the Miyuki Bridge, We were still kids, We were only thinking about getting home. On the bridge, the children I will never forget what we went through. Kuwabara is one of just a handful It makes me cry for their family to come to find them. I always feel so sorry for them. The children's lives hang by a thread. It's not enough They're still in grave need of help. For the military, it's out of the question In the inferno that is now Hiroshima, their first priority is to save The fire that's consuming the city to the Miyuki Bridge. For everyone fleeing the blaze, the bridge has in fact become More and more victims of the blaze Eyewitness testimony what's going on around the edges It's an endless ballet Relief efforts are being organized to get the burn victims to the hospitals Goro Takeuchi is a 22-year-old army cadet He sees a searingly bright light Half an hour later, he sets off to help evacuate the victims. When he gets to the Miyuki Bridge, he is shocked He ordered me to give priority Women and children were not important. Children, women, Only young men were allowed a ride. In a deathly silence, and under the eye of the wounded the evacuation begins. Young soldiers were still a valuable part I think that's why this order was given. To win the war required people Women couldn't shoot. Women and children and had to wait. They had to join the queue. When I first received the order, However, the situation at Miyuki Bridge I couldn't just rescue In the midst of all the chaos everybody's trying to stay alive. A little girl I still remember his voice. It was stern and without compassion. It really scared her and she started crying. She was just a little thing. Then she rushed off. Alone, with no idea where she's going, the girl heads back There were flames everywhere What happened to her? She died, of course. Even adults couldn't survive, How many children on that Monday the 6th of August, only to disappear again, like that little girl who's forever burned Rie Kutsuki is very familiar Since her early childhood, one shared by her whole family. There in the photo, a little boy with a shaven head He's clearly there in this photo. Why did he never make it back? I was told my grandparents heard For the whole family, This boy here is Uncle Akira. His unusually shaped ears He's never been found. However, one day my grandmother She recognized her son Akira, Akira, the brother of Kutsuki's father when the nuclear mushroom cloud He's alone and he tries to get home. He's pulled along in the rush where Yoshito Matsushige photographs him. He's clearly there in this photo. Why did he never make it back? When a huge number of people you can never know That's the cruelty of war and the atomic bomb. Hiroshima, an entire city Thousands of lives Bit by bit, thanks to the photos it's been possible to trace However, what do we know of the actual Doctor Harada He's also a specialist He can shed new light Their hair is burned, They must be burnt all over their bodies. A series of details In Doctor Harada's opinion, show characteristic symptoms This can be seen that are overexposed in the photos. It's not the kind of burn you get today When a person is exposed the skin absorbs the rays The burns are all the more intense because the victims Many parts of their bodies It was a very deep and serious burn. That was a surprising revelation. Indeed, when an A-bomb goes off, The skin is burned very deeply. Very rapidly, enormous blisters form, which then burst, The nerve endings The pain the people suffered would have been the worst pain They were saying: &quot;Mummy, it's hot,&quot; with their hands held out. There were people walking like this They were walking slowly, but walking. I was wondering why their clothes However, in fact, it was their skin. That's what I found out at the hospital. The skin had peeled off, and that too was burned. Their skins turned outward When you grill fish, the skin shrinks. It was like that. Mitsuko Kouchi's father He has very bad burns on his arms. I held this side of him saying: Then from here, It was his hand. The skin came off and it looked so watery. Mr. Kouchi's burns from a nuclear weapon. The heat of the explosion Its power is such that it leaves imprints like the shadow of death. Any hospital left standing is submerged The effects are beyond the power Professor Hasai is a physicist. Like Doctor Harada, he has been studying for a long time He too, has remarked on the severity In the data gathered by the American army, Yes, because it was just too awful. If this had been made public before, the US and the whole world However, the US prefers to keep quiet What they want by developing and that means not scaring people. For a long time, all their studies remain confidential. What these studies show a type of scarring characterized It's a symptom presented by almost all and Nagasaki as well. Several reports hit by the wind from the explosion, the number of victims who died than the number of those who died When Little Boy explodes at 8:15, nobody yet knows Oppenheimer himself, estimates 20,000 dead in the first second. There will be more than three times Hiroshima, is, therefore, a reliable choice of this new weapon. When, in September 1945, US scientists they seized all photos, medical records, since the 6th of August. To handle all this information, an atomic bomb casualty commission Under the cover of medical care a great deal of information is collected, all intended for a proper inquiry Everything is noted down, and classified as top secret Beyond the confines of the ABCC, Japanese doctors by US military police. They're not to ask too many questions Throughout the whole Hiroshima region, However, sometimes mere images Kouchi's father too turns to the ABCC. When he dies, My brother asked me to contact the ABCC. I found out that my father's body He'd been dissected. Four days after the blast, Vomiting, bleeding, the Hiroshima plague. The inhabitants are learning Dozens of women in the rubble of the still-burning city. Takeuchi, the military cadet, will help deliver them The newborns I saw weren't the normal red. They were all white. They have a name for the survivors The hibakusha. They're suffering from burns, but also from the effects Cancers and leukemia. In Japanese society, gives you access to a pension but it soon turns on the victims. People are afraid of the hibakusha. The women will give birth to monsters, Already suffering the guilt the victims find themselves or keep their terrible secret This, in the truest sense, A third person in Matsushige's photos This woman is still alive, I didn't want anyone to know either, but my brother insisted For a long time, to avoid their children the hibakusha The people from the Miyuki Bridge as if the bomb Some people need to forget. Others need to remember. Every morning at the exact hour a bell rings out Every 6th of August at 8:15 a.m., and welcomes people to celebrate peace. Like many other survivors, Mr. Tsuboi Like many, still being alive The Miyuki Bridge isn't just where For me, It was like a rebirth for me. On the Miyuki Bridge, in an instant, Tsuboi, Kouchi, Nishioka, Kodama, It shouldn't have happened. That endless line of burned victims. It's like I'm watching Like Takeuchi, they all want their lives not to have been in vain. After we die, there will be no one left I have to do whatever I can do To pass it on to the young, and collect all the documentation I could. I want them to understand and never to forget Hiroshima. That's what I want. Yoshito Matsushige passed away in 2005, but these photos They are a homage to the 210,000 victims as well as the one They are a rare testimony and to what they all suffered, caught in the hell of the nuclear blaze so that humanity