Luigi's voice has not changed. That's what I thought, at least. Charles Martinet, who also voices Mario, has last 2 decades. If Luigi's voice sounds different now, it's Well, that's what I thought. But then, someone sent me a message on Twitter. And it turns out, I was wrong. It turns out that Luigi used to have two different And the version of Luigi that you heard could It just comes down to luck! Let me tell you about why Luigi doesn't So, if we're talking about Luigi's voice, - Charles Martinet. In the early 1990s, about 92 or 93, Charles voice of a videogame character. Actually, Martinet wasn't actually invited The guy running the thing told him, you're talk to all of kinds of people, just go do So, Martinet's first thought was kind of &quot;I'm walkin' here, I'm walkin' here!&quot; But then he realised that that voice might So, on a whim, he went for a much higher pitched which was based on the character Gremio from Gremio is this old friendly Italian man - so friendly Italian man. [Italian rambling...] Famously, Charles Martinet kept talking and ran out of tape! He was told, go home, please leave! So, Martinet thought this meant he didn't - and he was successful - he got the role! In fact, his was the only tape the interviewer So, you might be wondering what the audition Mario 64? Mario Kart? No, it was for real life. Basically, Nintendo had this advanced real be strapped up in a big metal helmet, and to this 3D Mario head. Anybody who walked past the booth would be Martinet would start talking to them, as Mario. That's where Mario first got the voice that But what about Luigi? Well, sometimes people would ask if they could However, no-one had made a 3D model for Luigi COULDN'T show Luigi on screen. There was no Luigi to show. So, he came up with a clever solution. He would say something along the lines of He is cooking some spaghetti in the kitchen! Say hello Luigi!" And then, Charles would reply as Luigi, except Mario on screen would would look like he was And so, the voice Charles came up with was the limitation of not being able to move his It was a voice he could do while keeping his As for Nintendo, well, they had no input at It was funny though. People kept asking to see Luigi, but there He didn't have a Luigi. Now, a few years later Nintendo developed gave Mario a human voice. &quot;It's a me, Mario!&quot; They figured Charles Martinet was doing such just made sense to put him in the games, too. And so, he became the voice of Mario in Super &quot;Yahoo!&quot; In fact, he's been the exclusive voice of So, you'd expect the same would happen with Not so. You see, while Super Mario 64 was in development, was developing the game Mario Kart 64, and for the first time. And this is where I need to introduce you Bardakoff was a French translator for Nintendo come all the way over to Japan to translate Oh, and he was only 19 at the time! So, one day Bardakoff was on his lunch break with one of his friends at the company - and Kart 64. It wasn't finished, they didn't have any So Julien said, " Can I do Toad's voice?", You just have to come to the recording studio." So, Julien Bardakoff showed up at the recording was Koji Kondo of all people, the legendary videogame songs, like the themes from Mario But at the time, Bardakoff didn't recognise Of course, he knew who Koji Kondo the composer of him in the recording studio was that guy! So, Bardakoff started running through some then Koji Kondo stopped him and and said &quot;you Your voice would be more fitting more Luigi.&quot; And that is where the arguments begin! Eventually, Koji and he ended up recording the voice clips for Luigi! Oh, and in case you're wondering, Charles Mario and not Luigi. Anyway, here's Julien Bardakoff as Luigi. When Mario Kart 64 was released in the US, of the voices. Some of them, like Peach, had quite thick chose to replace them. But as for Luigi, I'm not sure what Nintendo's Perhaps it was to be more consistent, but The 3D talking heads? I don't know... Anyway, for whatever reason, poor Julien's by none other than Charles Martinet! And he essentially just used the same voice Take a listen to his voice in Mario Kart 64. Weirdly though, this is not at all the end Because for the next 6 or 7 Mario games, it voices you would hear - Nintendo couldn't Let me show you what I mean. The next game featuring Luigi's voice was And in this game, regardless of whether you're voice clips used are Julien the Frenchman's! &quot;Luigi is the top!&quot; But then, the NEXT game featuring Luigi was And this time, Charles Martinet was asked And over the next few years, Nintendo kept and Charles' voices, kinda depending on the impression I get. Oh, not to get distracted but quickly coming in this game are really funny. I'm not sure what was going through Charles but Luigi sounds kind of terrifying in the Listen out and see if you agree with me... Yeah, Luigi sounds like a member of the mafia Very strange. Anyway, what happened afterwards? Did this flip-flopping just keep on going Obviously not. And there's one game that cemented Luigi's day. And that game is.... Luigi's Mansion! For the first time, Nintendo wanted to make Actually, the game was originally just going started introducing ghosts and haunted mansions, the infamous scaredy-cat, Luigi! Realistically, the developers had two options Julien, or Charles. And this decision essentially set Luigi's They picked Charles Martinet. So, Charles Martinet came to the recording version of the game. It wasn't finished yet. During the recording, Charles ended up putting Like in Luigi's Mansion, Luigi will whistle That is Charles Martinet doing the humming, And, according to Charles Martinet, HE himself nervous too, although presumably not while Anyway, here's what the final voice clips Martinet drew on his own life when recording He himself is a younger brother, and he tends brother, just like Luigi and Mario. And having those real life anchors likely since Luigi's personiality hadn't really But now, all of a sudden Charles Martinet and saying the word "Mario" in 13 subtly As he himself explained, "Yeah it is- it's You get to see Luigi, you get to really feel joy and happiness and triumph..." So, what about after 2002? Has Luigi's voice changed any more since Well, in terms of voice actors, it has not Charles Martinet is still voicing Luigi in However, the way in which Martinet PORTRAYS The character's voice has become notably Let's use the Luigi's Mansion series as Here's a clip from that first Luigi's &quot;Mario? Mario? Wowowowowow!&quot; And then, here's what he sounds like almost [Lower pitched Luigi sounds.] It's not like he sounds like a different is definitely noticeable. Which isn't a surprise! Charles Martinet is a human with a voice, If anything, his current voice harkens back So yes, Martinet does a brilliant job voicing definitely wins points for style - arguing to voice Toad or Luigi, that wins all awards &quot;Mamma mia!&quot; Oh god... that was my attempt. I tried, I'm sorry! Um, subscribe and turn on notifications if what I have up my sleeves. Syke! I'm wearing a T-shirt, you fool! No sleeves here! See you next week... hahah.