Hey guys, dan here welcome to a seemingly random video where today we're checking out an app thing Hmm. It's animojis :D I've never done a video on these before but there's this really cool thing That you can get on iphone which pretty much tracks your face and then adds you onto an animal, or an alien, or a poo Yeah, this is what they look like you could make all kinds of facial expressions you can You can do pretty much anything with these things as long as it can track your face now With the new update that's been added to iPhone There's a lot more animojis and you can create your very own an animoji as well So I thought we create me and some other characters as animojis. But first I want to be a pig What are the new ones I feel like they have dragon before that's pretty cool My nostrils look the same as this dragon XD Which other skeleton I like this I just like I'm in Disney's Coco you seen that film? :) It's one of my favorite films by the way. The bear definitely was a thing already the tiger though I like this one C: it kind of looks like a Pikachu a little bit like an aggressive Pikachu (Cute Growl) Don't think this thing could look aggressive if it tried. The koala is definitely new. (Laughing) Oh my goodness, this thing is great. Look at its ears, its really bald though, like incredibly bald definitely some work up top but you got the fuzziest ears the wiggle around but yeah looking a little bit bald. Is this a snake? Ohh It's a t-rex Hey it's amazing. By the way. Does anyone use these like I know people mess around with them, but does anyone use them in messages? But they're kind of freaky to get and then there's also a ghost BOO Am I scary? ha tee hee Oh my goodness. Look at this. You can even blow your cheeks up. That's amazing Okay, I like the ghost a lot. Can I Okay If you close your eyes does it work? It does! There's a fly in here! Why anyway that's not what we came to do today. We came to press this button right here Memoji create your own an emoji make it look like you or get creative. We're gonna do both of those things Oh my goodness. I am yellow What? You can add freckles you can be pink. Oh, this is amazing I love why they've included everyone. So just in case you are a little bit blue, then you're fine. You're good But first let's try and create me. So let's choose the palest of pale there we go hairstyle. Oh Dude, they have loads. It actually looks really good. This is me if I was in brave the film brave or in a Pixar film That's exactly what it reminds me of some kind of Pixar film. Yes Yes, indeed, right? Let's try and find the right hair first and then we'll try some different hairstyles. Oh this one does this one work? head shape eyes Brows nose and lips ears facial hair eyewear Oh my goodness I just need to color the hair Where's the hair color? This is FLY PLEASE Oh, it's literally here. They must have it Yes, if you can have blue skin you have to have blue hair. Whoa, the eyebrows! &gt;:D Hey It's me as an animoji, but I need to change some other things What head shapes we got good tiny little baby we also have Older man, I guess I've just noticed the nose is extremely odd. What kind of chin do I have? 0_0 Yeah, that looks pretty good. I like that we go properly square. I don't think do I have a square chin No, it's actually pretty pointy. I'm gonna go for this. Yeah, that looks good eyes. They need to be blue as well I don't know if that's the right blue though. Oh, there we go I I Don't know if my eyes of that blue. Let's try this and slide it up. I I don't Know I feel like I'm creating a sim right now. Maybe this that was pretty cool Brows now. I have big eyebrows. I'm not ashamed to admit it. I do have big eyebrows. Maybe those bad boys Can we go no eyebrows that'd be amazing. My eyebrows are brown It looks kind of weird though. I Oh I like that, I like that a lot are those my Eyebrow colors I think they are I can't do the brown bits on the sides unfortunately, but that's hitting nose and lips Just choose the biggest nose. Let's just admit it. I have the biggest nose. I know I have pretty big lips as well Not that big I think the standard lips are fine Oh Hold up. Hold up pucker up. What other colors do you have blue lips? Oh Geez green Orange, I'm just gonna go normal ears. Oh wait you can do earrings Do they have the right one? I guess they have these that works and Then they don't have black though. You could have any kind of lips, but you can't have any kind of earrings Oh wait a second. Hey It's me. It actually looks really good. All right, it's got some facial hair up in here. Oh my goodness I'm some kind of Elf. I like the beards If only I could grow one properly. That would be amazing. Look at these Ho, Ho, Ho definitely like Santa Claus. We can do the beard and mustache combo definitely shouldn't try that anytime soon this though oh we we There's so many I love this I wish I could grow a beard like this, that'd be amazing But I need to go for this and make it This color. I mean that's kind of dark and I don't have it over my lip. So What do I do? Let's just do it slightly Yeah, I think that's right. Do eyewear as well? Okay. Okay, the glasses are floating on my face, but that's fine I can go full Harry Potter on this Monocle I like that classy. Unfortunately, I don't wear glasses headwear, I like this Ha ha. Oh this this is like a little bit is this medieval or is this something else top hat? I like the top that this looks like I'm ready to go for a wedding. This is great. Well, I can go adventuring Look, no hat for me today. That's That's me done Hey guys, dan here. Welcome back. to- Okay, let's not do that so you can edit them and then you can I could use this as a face cam I know Justin uses these a lot, but I feel like use myself as a computer-generated thing as As me anyway, you could do that and I think you can create more as well So if you don't feel like being an alien, oh my goodness. I I did not know that happened on the alien one. Wow, I can be moved or I can create someone else I feel like we should create someone that's yellow or pink. Let's go pink. Let's make them really pink Let's make I didn't try all the hairstyles out of myself Did I afro we could make them completely we can make them whatever we want yellow orange Full pink kind of looks like something from inside out. Let me duplicate this But now it's got a cool and then this add the different hairs This is what I would look like the real long hair like a rocker or something dreadlocks Know what I like the swinging dreadlocks. They're actually pretty cool. It's like trying out a hairstyle Before you go ahead and get it. I could rock that. I feel like I look a little bit punk rock though. Oh This is very anime. I kind of like that though. I like that a lot I'm talking about punk rock earlier But my goodness this is definitely this is definitely punk rocker even even flips in the wind Yes, definitely a little preview of when I'm older. Maybe hopefully I can keep my hair but I Don't know. Oh, there's a highlight section. Let's go back to the hair We actually chose there it is and you can do highlights if we choose a blue Actually that's choose purple and then go to this. Hey, you could do the hair I used to have with the galaxy bits That's kinda cool, it makes me want to get it again. That looks awesome Hey Okay, I made my animoji. Ah It's weird you can also like track the tongue There you go, there's the two differences in my an emoji I kind of like the one with a purple bit seemed better Because I need to go back to that. So, I'm sorry. I'm deleting you. Get out of here. Goodbye Improvement sure, I don't know what this video is supposed to be. I hope you enjoyed it Anyway, I didn't expect it to be some detailed. So I didn't think I'd have to go into as much detail I was gonna make some other like video game characters and stuff we can always save that for another time if you like me to create I don't know like Baldy, Bendy Neighbor. I don't know if you want to see me create some video game characters any other characters then let me know if you enjoyed This video when I see you another one, well, even big fat thumbs up every greatly appreciated Also, if it happens to be the first video. You see by me, please do consider subscribing to join Team TDM today for daily videos I'll see you guys in the next one animoji out Subtitles by Arch Playz, @mrdarkshotblx on Instagram Edited by NinjaAssassinJ @ju_ju.w on Instagram