Beaming internet from the middle of the satellite dish placed on top of your house up Earth's atmosphere, well let's be honest, is is that the Starlink satellites move incredibly and data is being sent back and forth between them dish and satellite are continuously angling between them. On top of that, the dish switches because they move out of the dishes' field of how this is possible, stick around because we're which enable satellite internet to magically work. see how it generates a beam of data that is able continuously steers the beam so that it points third, we'll dive into what exactly the dish and in your ability to stream five HD movies or shows full of in-depth details. We recommend watching and then a second time at one and a half speed stick around, and let's jump right in. difference between a television satellite dish which Elon Musk dubbed Dishy McFlatface or Dishy to focus the electromagnetic waves which are orbiting the Earth at an altitude of 35 thousand TV signals from space, they can't send data. data from a Starlink satellite orbiting 550 60 times closer than TV satellites, it's still an and thus the beams between Dishy and the Starlink beams that are continuously angled or steered to signals which come from a satellite the size of that covers land masses larger than North however, need to be in a low earth orbit which is critical for smoothly playing internet coverage is much smaller. Thus 10,000 or more fast speeds in a low earth orbit, are required to Let's now open up Dishy McFlatface. At the back, that connects to the router. Note that these directly at the Starlink satellite; they're used the proper general direction. Opening up Dishy, the other side, we find a massive printed circuit and 20 larger microchips organized in fanning out from the larger to smaller microchips, and GPS module on the edge of the PCB. On the of squares between the circles. On the next layer, notched cop-per circles, and behind that, we find of Dishy. So, what are we looking at? Well, in hexagonal honeycomb pattern, with each stack of by the microchips on the PCB. This massive array in order to send and receive electromagnetic satellite orbiting 550 kilometers above. Let's Here we have an aperture coupled patch antenna the PCB. It looks very different from the incredibly complicated, so let's simplify and step through the basic principles of that propagates out from this antenna. transmission line feed coming from one of the just a copper PCB trace or wire that abruptly ends high-frequency voltage or signal to the feed in a sinusoidal fashion, going from positive pico-seconds, 12 billion times a second, or 12 works differently from direct current or low For example, above the copper feed wire, we called an antenna patch. With DC or there wouldn't be much happening because the patch the power sent to the feed wire is coupled or sent as mentioned earlier, a 12 Gigahertz signal is is at the bottom of its sinusoidal, or trough, the end of the feed wire thus creating a zone of negative voltage. This concentration of electrons including the electrons on the top of the patch, the other side of the circular patch. Thus, one while the other becomes negatively fields between the patch and feed wire like so. copper feed wire 42 picoseconds later, we have a electrons at the end of the wire, and thus the the voltage in the patch is flipped, and the Because the feed wire voltage oscillates back and the electric fields in the patch will also flows back and forth. we can see some of these electric field vectors, because they are equal and opposite, they cancel in the same plane of the patch and are called same direction and thus they add to each other, in this direction. At the same time, electrons which is an electric current, generate a or vector, perpendicular to the fringing we have an electric field pointing one way, and Let's move forward in time to where the and now, we're at the peak of the sinusoid, 42 or voltage, as well as the current, is all fields point in the opposite directions. Electric and by creating these oscillating fields, which travels in the direction perpendicular to Because the two sets of field vectors are not propagating electromagnetic wave travels outwards kind of like a light bulb on the ceiling. Let's trough or top and bottom of each wave and note opposite direction. Additionally, the strengths the voltage and signal that we originally sent of the stack. Which means, if we want to make we just have to increase the voltage sent to the more power equals a brighter light. aperture-coupled patch-antenna as transmitting; signal. In this microchip, called a front-end receive and turn off the 12 Gigahertz signal. is directed towards Dishy, the electric fields electrons in the copper patch, thus generating high-frequency signal is then coupled to the chip which amplifies the signal. Thus, these electromagnetic waves, but, not at the same time. this antenna has many more layers and is more here are two circular patches. The bottom is to receive at 11.7 Gigahertz. Additionally, support circular polarization, a reflective plane for isolating the operation of one antenna from many more details in the creator's comments which The second note is that there are electromagnetic thousands of different sources passing through light from the sun, radio waves from radio or towers. Therefore in order to block out all these antenna patches are designed with and transmit only a very narrow range of outside this range are essentially ignored a single antenna can be combined with others in This single antenna is only a centimeter or like turning on and off one light bulb and trying What we need is a way to make the light a few electromagnetic waves into a single powerful 55 centimeters wide with a total of 1280 technique of combining all the antennas' So how does it work? Well, let's first see what spaced a short distance away. As mentioned before, propagates outwards in a balloon shape. At every field vector with a strength and direction and field vectors combine together at all points in the antennas are pointing in the same direction constructive interference, and in other locations, and thus they cancel each other via destructive they add together constructively is far tighter, When we add even more antennas, the zone of focused in what is called a beam front. we can form a beam with so much intensity and Now you might be thinking that the strength of 1 a combined power of, well, 1280 times a single power and range of the main beam from all these that of a single antenna. The quick explanation and destructive interference, it's as if we and then placed a whole bunch of mirrors around to exit through. The long explanation requires Dishy McFlatface and the Starlink Satellites and engineering inside and to fully comprehend it To help you do that, check out Brilliant, which tool for learning. They teach a wide range many of which directly relate to Starlink electric cars, quantum computers, they have an entire course dedicated gravitational physics which will greatly help Brilliant is nothing like a boring textbook, modules to make the lessons entertaining To really understand today's frontier technologies and entrepreneur like Elon Musk, you have science and engineering. We recommend you sign if you like them, which we're sure you will, sign this channel, Brilliant is offering 20% off an sign up. Just go to brilliant.org/brancheducation. Now let's continue exploring how a powerful and then how we fill it with hundreds As a quick refresher from before, here's all with the same 12 Gigahertz signal in order to to Dishy. However, as mentioned earlier, we need directly at the Starlink satellite zooming Using the motors isn't feasible because they would So, the solution is to use what's Let's go back to our two-antenna the same signal to the two antennas, and thus Understanding phase is critical, so quickly: is done by changing the power sent to the or weaker. The frequency is how many peaks and and changing the phase is shifting the signal left between 0 and 359, because, if we shift the signal back at the beginning, exactly as if we were to with a 45-degree phase shift, here's another 315-degree shift. Your eyes can't see differences circuitry such as what's inside Dishy is really So then, how do we use phase shifting to angle the The solution is to phase shift the signal sent to as a result, the timing of the peaks and troughs the other. These peaks and troughs propagate interference is now angled to the left with If we change the phase of the antennas again, the the right. Therefore, by continuously changing we can create a sweeping zone of Let's bring in six more antennas and simplify peaks from each wave. Far away from the front that is a planar wave. Kind of like ocean by continuously changing the timing of when we can change the angle at which the wave front direction or another. And, if we bring in we can now steer the beam in any direction Let's move back to view all 1280 antennas in needs to be pointed or steered, we use the GPS along with the orbital position of the Starlink software computes the exact set of 3D angles and These phase shift results are then sent and each beamformer coordinates between 32 smaller controls 2 antennas. Every few microseconds, these all the microchips in order to perfectly aim the be steered anywhere in a 100-degree field of view. also called the main lobe looks like this. interference isn't perfect, and as a result Third, Mr. McFlatface holds is a single phased there are in fact 4 phased array antennas. Two and 2 are used to communicate with the ground And fourth, phased arrays are used in many on commercial airlines to allow for mid-flight explains how mid-flight internet works. we want to mention that this video took a month months to model and animate. If your mind is blown of this video click the subscribe button, like be sure to create more videos like this one. information gets sent between Dishy and we've talked about high-frequency but that doesn't look anything like binary So, what's happening? Well, Dishy and the this; however, they vary the amplitude and the or encode 6-bit binary values to each different With 6 bits, there are 64 different permutations of amplitude and phase. However, it's more easily visualized by arranging the 64 diagram as shown. Let's look at the point 011 101 The distance from the origin is the amplitude axis is the phase. It's a bit like using polar it transmits a signal with an amplitude Then, if the next value being sent is 101 000, the and a 305-degree phase shift. After that it sends phase shift. Each of these 6-bit groupings are nanoseconds before the next symbol is sent. up like this however, because the frequency of or 12 Gigahertz, and since a symbol lasts 10 120 wavelengths per symbol before the next symbol pico and nanoseconds, that means that we resulting in 540 million bits per second. However, download and upload. Since this particular antenna about 74 milliseconds of every second is satellite and 926 milliseconds is used to send for the sake of reducing latency, these time instead of grouping them all together. using different variations of amplitude and Modulation and is more complicated than we Now that we have a stream of millions of 6-bit second, in order to turn it into your favorite h.264 format. You can learn more about that in our I'm sure you have many questions, and by but before we finish let's clarify two things. video is off. Here's the correct scale of Dishy kilometers away which we can't correctly show. In are only around 2.5 centimeters apart, and thus 22 million wavelengths which is many more than the animation we're showing the wavelengths slowly it only takes around 2 milliseconds for an the Starlink satellite to reach the other. disproportionately show Dishy emitting to the satellite. In reality the satellite dish and physics of receiving an electromagnetic wave That's pretty much it for how Starlink and Dishy this video was over 45 minutes long, so all the comments found in the English Canada subtitles. Membership Sponsors for helping to make O'Flynn at NewAE Technology for lending us a This is Branch Education, and we deep into the technology that drives our by clicking one of these cards or click here