Welcome to another Mathologer video. As a Here's a bit of a warm-up exercise. Here radius of the larger one. The red dot smaller circle. Now imagine that the larger one. What curve will be traced by You think you've got it? Well let's see. straight line. Pretty cool, huh? would have thought. This little miracle named after the 13th century Persian al-din al-Tusi. I probably mucked that one mathematics of combining circular models of the universe to the modern highlight will be the reconstruction of discovered in 2008. Just wait. Okay let's orbit of our Moon around the Sun. Well we the Sun on a roughly circular orbit, that on a roughly circular orbit, and that year. Based on these three facts try to Sun. You've got it? Well let's see. In this Earth and so we're dealing with a new Fast forward one lunar months and we have a new moon again. There are 11 more Earth completes its trip around the Sun. picture of the orbit of the moon, with 12 twelve months of the year. Right? Wrong! Yes, yes we should be using ellipses not months long, the two orbits are same plane, and so on. But none of that misleading. What has really mucked up our earth-moon distance is much much, much so let's be honest, stop cheating and shrink and there the loops are gone that what our orbit looks like? Nope, we the orbit now has shallow waves but shrinking. So what we've got finally is a looks like a regular 12-gon with rounded orbit of the moon around the Sun looks like than the curve in our picture. even more surprising. It turns out that system with a convex orbit. The orbits of loopy types. In fact because of this the Earth and the Moon as a double Okay, let's now have a closer look at our system the Earth and the Moon circle vary those speeds (and the radii of the a really extreme example, the orbit can be a business that I showed you earlier can is the red point on the rim of the center of this little circle. But this some very famous toy. Starts with an S a spirograph. Wow, that was bad :) All spirograph curves are possible moon the amazing variety of such curves. You get perfect ellipses when you keep but move the moon to the inside of the obtained in this way. Now change the of the big circle and we get a pretty triangle. Then with the rolling circle get a pretty squarish orbit. So, the universe that moves around its Sun pretty amazing, isn't it? Now what if the seem pretty certain that at least in our But, of course, mathematicians don't have mini moon of a moon we just create a terms of orbits of mini moons of moons moons? Well let's have a look at this. moons at work, each one moving at some the minniest of the moons follows an classic animation is the work of really, really amazing, don't you agree? travel on a Homer path, then we can get that's true, any reasonably nice traced by an orbit of a mini moon. loopy curve can be travelled along in and fast in others, going back and forth on. And every one of these travel our moon systems. Usually you'll need infinitely many moons. But get as close to spot-on as you want. The usually called epicycles and epicycle to describe complicated motions. It dates Greek astronomers who used epicycles crazy motions of the planets as observed geocentric models of the solar system as the center with the moon, the planets and circles. However every one of the planet complicated orbit. For example, Mars's something like this. with a little extra tinkering thrown in predictive model. Copernicus's away much of the complication of the the center of the solar system. This part with a simple picture of concentric his greek mates, Copernicus also resorted to epicycle acrobatics to fine-tune orbits of the planetary motion wound up being at least systems, and no more accurate. Just to illustrates the motion of Mars into details, doesn't it look even more complicated than the model for Mars in the Ptolemaic does to me :) replacing all the circles within circles elliptical orbits introduced by Johannes Anyway epicycle mathematics is ages old, to studying the heavens. However it was century that the great French paper that led to a proper understanding mathematics and it's incredible branch of mathematics is called Fourier inclined among you I will now show you drawings of whatever takes your fancy systems underlying these drawings can be series. It gets a little detailed later, Okay so down to work on our very Simpson just using epicycles? And how answer to this question? We all know, you do, you won't be disappointed. It recently posted on the Mathematica the pseudonym Anderstood. Then Anderstood including the Mathematica code and Let's have a look. As a warm-up epicycles to draw the outline of an silhouette to pin down the curve roughly equally spaced points along the interprets the coordinates of these so called discrete Fourier transform to silhouettes in terms of complex Fourier but it's all pretty standard stuff. blob at the top was drawn using 20 if you squint a little it has a vague picture drawn using 100 epicycles is really code to generate epicycle approximations what's being drawn here. (music playing) Back to Anderstood. After elephanting he the drawing over there and his final really pretty good. Anderstood provides for also capturing straight off the page. There's also a bit of the epicycles in the animations being ingredients are basically there and it code and ideas to also reverse-engineer here's what I did. So what I did it was I video and cleaned it up in Photoshop and made a low-res version of this drawing of pixels. This is where Mathematica have a close look at what exactly I do linked in from the description. So using coordinates of all the pixels in this have to order the list of coordinates appear in the order in which we want to neat trick. He unleashes the command is it attempts to solve the Traveling that is, it tries to create the shortest and puts them into the corresponding like. So this is one continuous loop exactly once. which includes some undesirable time which is great. Now from here we can the elephant to generate the animation. and if you're keen on something smoother, generating a string of points that original picture traced. Then you feed in program does its epicycle magic. Okay Get creative and come up with some them in via a comments below. The Marty and my latest book, that one there. to really show you how these systems of let me just give you a crash course in it's actually not bad and it's beautiful of Euler's formula which has already Mathologer videos. So e to the i t is formula amounts to a very compact way of the unit circle in the complex plane. to picture there so the red point on the plus i sine t. That's the right side of t go from 0 to 2pi, the red point Euler's formula tells us that the red example, setting t equal to pi, that is, to ... -1, of course. So e^i pi =-1, mathematicians favourite identity. And, is equal to 1 which of course Just to say it again, as we let t go from the unit circle once in the write -t instead corresponds to traversing the circle direction. And if we write 2t instead circle twice in the counterclockwise And if you write 3, three times, and Here's another important observation. 4. What does this correspond to? Think are traversing a circle of radius 4. that we traverse a circle through the case the number 4, starting and ending but what's nice about this way of true for all complex numbers, not just we multiply by the complex number 1+i starting and ending at 1+i. Okay, it's expressions of this form: complex integer times t that stand for the magical Fourier machine. And what is the machine? It's a very simple property of out that the integrals of these equal to 0. Whoa, where did that one come is very simple? Well, it is actually easy it's a straightforward symmetry argument: goes from 0 to 2 pi is canceled out by Maybe one of you can fill in the details Otherwise, just take my word for it for reveal the inner workings of the magical to trace this outline of the letter pi So feeding this to the magical Fourier infinitely many epicycles whose limit after. Here we go. If we only use the this finite chain will trace an more epicycles we use the better our using the first four epicycles gives this this. Here's the output from eight close look at the tracing produced by Here we go in slow motion. Mathematically sum here. There's one term for each of plus the term at the top. So what we have four individual circular motions. The that represents the black anchor point. Now let's have a closer look at the blue circle, the exponent is 1 times i t purple circle, 2 i t for the -2 i t for the red circle. The sum would be 3, -3, 4, -4, and so on, exactly once. Except, ... well there is no there, just in disguise. Here it is. e to sum that exactly captures the motion So we're producing a doubly infinite Just to reiterate, the t in everything because we're tracing closed curves number the value of the sum is the same periodic functions from the interval 0 here's another way of expressing what machine rewrites any sufficiently nice interval 0 to 2pi to the complex numbers That's great but how do we find those that precisely pin down our epicycles. hidden. Let me show you how you can find the coefficient in front of e^2it. Let's zoom in on the three terms around this coefficient. To get rid c_2 we multiply our equation by e^ -2it. to algebra autopilot. (music playing) Okay, at this stage every single term of our infinite sum except for the one we are factor. Now we can use the key to obliterate all the terms except for go. There it is. Remember I told you equal to 0 and so what's left on the just equal to a 2 pi. Dividing through we calculate c_2. And, of course, the exact coefficients as well. And so, on input of calculates these coefficients, each one And here I take a bow to professor Fourier. Of course I've glossed over a heap of Maybe some of you in the know can exactly this works and what can go wrong. you actually use this magic machine in much on how you're tracing, the function nice form, you may be able to evaluate as in the case of our Homer drawing, we tracing by a sequence of points in this take these sequences of points as input these integrals. In particular, Anderstood called discrete Fourier transform. A very nice video by GoldPlatedGoof. Also under control in terms of epicycle with all those real-life applications of of. Everything :) Just as a bit of a teaser, famous representation of a square wave nothing but the imaginary part of a very I'll eventually get around to dedicating beautiful circle of ideas. Anyway I hope enjoyed making it. And that's it for