Translator: Thanh H. Chau I grew up in a valley on the West coast Imagine the wildest, Lush bush that merges from foothills cut through by pristine rivers And a lake that sparkles while the rainbows write color in the sky. I grew up in the Five hundred men, women, and children living together and following My grandfather was my hero because he brought us to this land and founded the community I loved. Purchasing the two farms was a smart move for our group. We'd migrated from the East coast I arrived at six weeks old, to what would be home My cousins and childhood friends We did everything together. Camping was one of our favorite pastimes. We snuggled in sleeping bags and cooked damper on campfire ashes. Now, earlier today we were asked to recall My favorite is celebration day. Imagine the coolest party My cousins, my friends, and I would gorge ourselves on pink candy floss There were clowns on stilts, back-rides behind tractors, three-legged races, and a plane that flew over The men built us a hydro slide And on these days, my granddad would decree a day off work So the women stopped and the men came, And it was all free. We didn't pay for it, We didn't work for money, we worked for the lifestyle and for each other. The money we made in our businesses That bank account put clothes on our back, and food in our mouths. And I knew every single person Not only did I know them, but I knew their husband, their wife, their children We lived in communal hostels. We worked together. We went to school together. We prayed together. I was constantly surrounded And at night, I'd skip to socialize or play a deck of cards. I loved working with the other girls I loved learning the sew, Music was one of my favorite hobbies. We were taught music so by the time I was 17, I was competent Think for a moment about a time Remember how it felt. Remember how proud you were in the moment. That probably felt similar to the day It was the most exciting I'd scored excellent grades and even better personal comments So you can imagine my excitement and read it to the 500 members And then he said, My stomach dropped. I turned bright red. There was air being sucked in my nostrils, but I couldn't breathe. See, my school teacher had written &quot;Lilia demonstrates leadership skills, which could be useful And my grandfather And this would become Afterward, I left the dinning room And what changed was my belief I was worth anything more And as a young girl, I spent the majority of my time And because we home-birthed big families, the sight of a pregnant belly My mum grew up I have nine siblings. I was seven years old when I saw a newborn baby I took a scissors with both hands My cousin was born blue So after saving him, the midwife did a trauma because I was 10 years old at the time. And I held my aunt's hand on a mattress in the back of a van, Dad was the active manager My mum was the leader of all the women and ran the entire I wanted to be just like her Her job was demanding and because Dad was she needed help raising the children. So I changed dirty nappies, potty-trained, climbed out of bed to rock them back to sleep, cleaned up spew, knitted them warm clothes, and helped wean them off breast milk. I couldn't wait to grow up and marry a man and have his babies. My girl cousin and I so it was a really exciting day for me when I turned twelve and got my period. Because I could finally fulfill And by the time I was 14, I knew who I wanted to fulfill His name was Willing. It would be a worthy marriage. I was the granddaughter and he was the son of Fervent, And one day I was sitting in class, when Fervent bowled in the door, Willing had been disobedient. I don't remember what he'd done, it could have been that he spoke back to his father, listened to music or read a book That didn't matter. The punishment was the same. Willing was ordered to bend over And my stomach rolled when Fervent pulled out the leather belt. We were then told to watch as Fervent beat Willing with it, and I refused to look; instead, I stared down at my desk Please make it stop. In that moment, my respect for Fervent's leadership imploded. I knew what he was doing was wrong. They taught us so much that as I watched Fervent beat his son, I thought that's not love. And it wasn't love even though after Fervent he hugged him and told him he loved him. That's not love. I became suspicious of the laws &quot;Spare the rod, spoil the child,&quot; My blood boiled when one wife and showed me the blue welt I gritted my teeth, &quot;How can anyone and treat a child that way?&quot; &quot;How can any parent My friend Jubilant wasn't spoiled. He was born into one of the least with no connection to leadership circles. He was the jokester of our class, always saying witty things Imagine your brother, one of your children, your nephew and niece, your daughter, the one who makes everyone laugh, the clown, that was Jubilant. And one day at soccer, Jubilant made one too many jokes. And when our teacher Nathaniel my stomach rolled again. The game froze, and we looked on horrified, and I thought Nathaniel would stop. But he didn't. He forced Jubilant to walk from the soccer field all the while punching and kicking him. And Jubilant was sobbing, raising his hands to shield And I thought surely Nathaniel would be dismissed But the next day, he was back And I thought, &quot;What's wrong with the people I don't want to have children here.&quot; Not wanting children My best friend Grace Her mother had given her up at birth, and her adoptive parents shipped her hoping that good influence Excuse me. She was a chocolate-skinned Mexican girl who arrived in Gloriavale when she was 13, just three years older than me. I loved that girl more than life. She giggled lots and made me fell safe. So we became best friends and spent as many moments And Grace brought personal possessions music, jewelry, makeup. These were forbidden. And seeing them for the first time made Her rebellious spirit inspired me. And over the years, Grace would be punished many times because she refused to be controlled. She was 20 when she came to me and told me the leaders had ordered her She was sobbing, trembling, tears were streaming down her cheeks. In desperation, she'd packed her bags, hidden them under a tree, called a friend on the outside but she was discovered, taken before an inquisition condemned, forced to confess she was evil, forced to phone her outside family And I thought, &quot;Fuck them. No one tells my best friend what to do.&quot; So I wrapped my arms &quot;Don't listen to them. You do what you believe is right.&quot; Thankfully, her adoptive parents came through. They phoned Gloriavale and threatened to send in the police The next day, she was gone. And she now lives happily in Canada. Excuse me. After the incident with Grace, I knew I had to leave too, or I would be forced And I knew I had to take or the same thing would happen to them. I had one foot out the door already. When I was 11, my oldest sibling ran away. When I was 13, my next oldest sibling ran away. When I was 17, my younger brother threatened to leave. I didn't know it at the time, But they couldn't bear the thought They were waiting for me to come around After what happened to Grace, I was ready to go. I left Gloriavale with my entire family And after I left the cult, I became obsessed with learning because I thought, &quot;If I can understand I can protect myself, I can make sure no one ever And as I wrote the story of my life I realized the leaders of Gloriavale used cruel tactics They began by using shame to degrade me in front of It started with my grandfather for my six-year-old report card. His action sends a clear message We all knew what would happen But it didn't end there, they began using guilt When I was a child, they told me every day I was a worthless sinner. It was my fault. I was evil. I was the one to blame. When people treated me badly I struggled to think correct for myself because I was always second-guessing: What if it is my fault? What if I am to blame? Now, they may have beaten me down, but they messed up My fury towards the injustices gave me the strength I couldn't stand by and watch Love for others broke But why was I willing Eventually, I realized that if ... I could learn to love myself the way I loved Willing, the way I love Jubilant and Grace, the way I love my little sisters, then I wouldn't take anyone's bullshit. So I asked, What does it mean to love myself? What does it mean to love myself so fully that if anyone ever tries I am the first to stand up for myself. I don't have all the answers, And I've come to realize that my six-year-old (Laughter) (Applause) And my grandfather (Laughter) I'm a strong woman. I'm a leader. Today I know my leadership skills are priceless. I used them to leave the church and find my own way still scares the living hell out of me. I used them when I was 23 and to write a book Now at 27 years old, I'm using them to stand here I use them every day she can do anything she wants to do and to never let anyone Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)