- Narrator: This is the Shantivan Complex, a mega kitchen in Mount Abu, Rajasthan belonging to the spiritual The kitchen is run entirely by volunteers, who cook enough food to The operation spans four floors and includes 14 dining halls, which can seat 15,000 people at a time. We visited the complex during a special celebration called &quot;Baba Milan&quot; to see how it prepares these meals in such big batches. Work in the kitchen begins at 5:30 a.m. with hundreds of volunteers cutting vegetables and peeling steamed potatoes by hand. During Baba Milan, 2,500 volunteers prep and cook the festival meals. But that isn't something Bhanu Prakash, who's head of the bread department, is worried about. - Narrator: The cut vegetables are loaded onto crates and wheeled into the main kitchen, where they're washed again in large metal containers and strained. All of the vegetables the kitchen uses are seasonal and bought directly from farms. And the food is prepared following the sattvic diet, or the yogi diet, which is rooted in ayurvedic practices. Today the chefs are cooking rajma, vegetable sabzi, chapatis, and theplas. While most of the prep some vegetables are Crates of tomatoes are pureed and spinach is chopped finely. On the other side of the kitchen, another team uses that tomato puree to make a sauce. They pour five liters of peanut oil into a giant pot. Then they mix in whole wheat flour, curry powder, handfuls of cumin seeds, asafoetida, bay leaves, and chili powder. Buckets of pureed and tossed together with garam masala, a common Indian spice mixture. The chefs then scoop the sauce out with buckets and place it into large metal containers so it can be delivered to another section of the kitchen. The tomato sauce is rolled to Chef Nilesh Bhai, who has been working here for 17 years and is in charge of making rajma, a curried dish made with kidney beans. - Narrator: He soaks the kidney beans for 10 to 12 hours before boiling them in this pot for three hours. Once they're cooked, Nilesh uses a small scooper to examine the beans' tenderness and gauge the broth's consistency. When the beans pass the test, he tips the pot and of the tomato sauce. He then fills the pot with more water so it achieves the same consistency it had before the tomatoes. This is something Nilesh determines with his eye. On the side, he mixes oil, cumin, coriander, garam masala, asafoetida, gram flour, and chili powder into a bucket. He then pours this into the pot and adds salt. After he adds the first round of spices, he tastes the rajma and decides if it needs more flavor. Once Nilesh approves of the taste, he mixes in finely chopped spinach. - Narrator: Cooking all an immense amount of energy. Since 1990, the kitchen has used a concentrated solar array on top of its roof to heat water and generate steam, which can be used to cook most of the food the kitchen makes. The cooked rajma is drained through a spigot into smaller containers, which are then covered and wheeled to the dining halls. One of the most important dishes made in the kitchen is sabzi, a mixed-vegetable dish that varies depending on the vegetables Cooks heat oil in a massive pot along with cumin seeds, curry leaves, and asafoetida. Next, they add turmeric, cut chilies, and chopped bottle gourd. They mix everything together before adding in chopped potatoes, scarlet gourd, and cauliflower. Then they add water and season the mix with salt and chili powder. Next come green beans, a pot full of tomato sauce, peas, cut green bell peppers, and shredded carrots. It's finished off with a Like every other dish this kitchen serves, the vegetables are taste-tested and seasoned accordingly during the cooking process. Once the chef at hand gives the flavor a thumbs-up, the mixture is scooped and wheeled to the dining halls. Bread is essential to every meal. The bread department at can make up to 26,000 flatbreads every hour. To do so, bakers first pour 50-kilogram bags of flour into mechanical sifters to remove large clumps of flour. - Narrator: The sifted flour is then taken to mechanical mixers, where different types of dough are made. Today, the bread department is making two types of flatbreads, chapatis and theplas. The thepla dough is whole-wheat flour, turmeric, chili powder, ground spinach, and fenugreek seed. Once mixed, the dough is wheeled to volunteers, who use their hands to roll it into palm-sized balls. These balls are then brought to a team of 200 rollers, who flatten them so they can be cooked. Chefs rub the flattened theplas with ghee and slap them onto flat griddles to cook. Together, this team can On the other side of the bread department, machines are used to make The dough is top-loaded into the machines, which chop, flatten, and bake it into crispy chapatis. - Narrator: Like everything the breads are placed to keep warm and wheeled to the In the dining halls, the rajma is served with rice, chapatis, and bhindi masala, a side dish made of okra and spices. During Baba Milan, the hindu god Shiva, who is recognized as the father of souls, is believed to visit practitioners. - Narrator: Many of the devotees have been coming here for years. - Narrator: Imbuing the food with positive intention is one of the biggest responsibilities during the cooking process.