In today's chess video, I am going to show Halosar Trap. And plus, I also have an interesting chess So stay tuned till the end and keep watching Chess Talk. Hello Chess Friends, I am Jeetendra Advani. If this is your first time on this channel and become a better chess player, then start you don't miss any of my videos. Okay, we start with the queen's pawn opening Then we offer our e4 pawn and Black takes This opening is popularly known as the Blackmar-Diemer Gambit. Now we play knight to c3 attacking the e4 Then Black defends with a very natural move, We will now offer another pawn by playing Black naturally takes with his e4 pawn. Now the standard reply would be to take this But we are going to do something different. We will capture this pawn with our queen. By playing this, we are offering another pawn This is what we call the Ryder Gambit or the Black naturally takes with his queen. Our main idea of playing this line is to clear attack the king. So our most logical move in this variation and at the same time, preparing to castle Now let's look at this from Black's perspective. He obviously has to move his queen because we are going to castle. He actually has a cheeky little trap here. He can go to B4, attacking this pawn. And if we castle, although this pawn will move, bishop to G4, skewing the queen and the rook. That would be trouble for you, right? Well, let's see. So black plays this natural move, queen to We know what he is going to do, so let's invite We simply castle on the queen's side. Black is on top of the moon, thinking he has But in reality, it's the other way around. If he goes ahead &amp; plays bishop to G4, then Let me show you how. After black moves his bishop, we are going to play this crushing move, knight to b5. If black gets over excited and takes your queen, then knight to c7 is check and mate. Going back, if he tries to take your knight with his queen, then bishop captures queen and its check to black. And after he blocks the check, you can save Going back, if he tries to free up some squares for the king to move and plays something like pawn to e5, then knight c7 check. Black's only move is king to e7. Then, we can play queen takes b7. And if queen captures queen, then that's a checkmate. So Going back, in this position, the most black would be knight to a6, protecting the But what we have done now, is that by bringing from defending this pawn. So now, we can capture this b7 pawn with our As you can see, we are double attacking this a discovered attack, just like this. So What can black do now?If he tries something the rook with our queen to give check. And after Knight captures queen, knight to Going back, if black plays rook to c8, defending with our queen. And if bishop tries to take our rook like Going back again, if bishop straight away tries to exchange rooks by playing bishop d1, then queen captures rook, check. And after the king moves, we can save our We are attacking this bishop, we are attacking Black's king is out in the open, and all these We should easily win this game from here. Okay, Now let's go back and see what is actually the best move for Black in this position. Well, the best move is queen to e4, double Black is looking to exchange queens and minimise So should we take the queen? Absolutely not! We will go ahead &amp; capture this knight and again threaten this weak c7 pawn. If black tries to capture the rook first, then we can And after rook d8 check, we can block with in material. So bishop captures rook is not a good idea. Going back, so obviously black needs to capture We move our king to b1. Now black will have to do something about it. Now again, we play queen to b7 attacking the rook, check. King moves to d7, only possible move. And finally, we need to do something about knight like this and at the same time, we As you can see, white has a decisive advantage Black's pieces are sitting like mere spectators, On the other hand, we have a lot of attacking We can bring out our bishop with tempo, our also enjoy the show by taking shots at this So all in all, this is a strong advantage if black plays rook to c8. Well, then we can take this a7 pawn with our then queen to c8 would be checkmate. So black c2 pawn. But now, we can bring our bishop into action The king can't move &amp; again, if he blocks to c8 is checkmate and its game over. So let's Let's look at this position. Although the most natural move here seems the players would play this. But the best move is a difficult move to spot, Yes, Black should look to exchange queens. And white should not allow him to do that From here, white should go back and continue This should be an even game from here, yeah But Nevertheless, this trick is definitely puzzle time. But Before moving onto today's chess puzzle, this video. We are targeting 2000 likes on this video, right now. Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see it. All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, Don't forget to Like &amp; Subscribe to this channel. And For some interesting chess tips, tricks Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in