In the year 1812, Johann Ludwig Burckhardt was travelling in in the region of what is today Jordan. Burckhardt was a strange and colorful Born on the shores of Lake Geneva, he had had been employed by a group known as upper-class Englishmen who financed They had given Burckhardt the task of and making contact with what was then the city of Timbuktu. and he threw himself into it with all He began to study Arabic at Cambridge dressing in traditional Arab clothing, turban, much to the bemusement of his After graduating, he moved to Syria and Arabic, even adopting the name pass himself off as a Muslim. disguise really was or whether anyone in In preparation for his great journey, he the Syrian Desert, but many of these He was robbed on a number of occasions, act as security on the journey. But his these setbacks, and in 1812 he set out on intention there of securing passage It was on this journey, taking the more baking summer heat of the desert, that discovery. a series of mysterious ruins hidden in a locals as Wadi Mousa, or the Valley of At this point, Burckhardt was still in and he contrived an excuse to visit the as he writes in his diary. I was particularly desirous of visiting the antiquities of which I had heard the admiration. there, and paid him with a pair of old He carried the goat and gave me a skin was no water in the valley below. down into the dry valley, he began to would see through his disguise and his In following the rivulet of Eldjy westwards, here that the antiquities of Wadi Mousa Of these, I regret I am not able to give the character of the people around me. a desert where no traveller had ever and a close examination of these works have excited suspicions that I was a travelers may visit the spot under the antiquities of Wadi Mousa will then be remains of ancient art. from a distance appeared to be a sheer he drew closer, he saw a well-concealed which a sparse stream was flowing. by high rocks, but upon a nearer approach in breadth, through which the rivulet The precipices on either side of the In many places, the opening between them and the sky is not visible from below. As Burckhardt traveled down this shady grew to wonder as he came upon the sight carved into the very rock of the red In continuing along the winding passage, the situation and beauty of which are impression upon the traveler, after such a gloomy and almost subterraneous The natives call this monument Kaszr and pretend that it was the residence of But it was rather the sepulcher of a and great must have been the opulence of monuments to the memory of its rulers. wonder had an enormous effect on his diary about the sight of this It is one of the most elegant remains of preservation resembles that of a examination, I found it to be a work of The colonnade is about 35 feet high and diameter, with Corinthian capitals. which consisted of an insulated cylinder other structures in the shape of small The entire front, from the base of the be 60 or 65 feet. European in modern times to set foot in millennium had been only a legend. For centuries, it had been the heart of a the flow of spice and incense coming east. carved with immaculate skill into the and tamed one of the harshest They had fought and traded with empires the historical dramas of their age. As Burckhardt wandered through the gullies have wondered how such a society had landscape of the Arabian Desert. arisen here, what had happened to empty be buried in the wandering sands of the My name's Paul Cooper, and you're Podcast. the past that rose to glory and then I want to ask, what did they have in common? feel like to be a person alive at the world? the most remarkable stories of us from the ancient world, Nabataeans. traders rose to become masters of the I want to show how the city of Petra the world, finally bring down the empire of Sandstone is a sedimentary rock. piled one upon another, and then over This pressure, along with natural mineral into rock. historical drama will unfold, These are known as Disi sandstone Disi sandstone is the youngest and Sandstones can be any colour depending forming it, and this kind is hard, pale distinctive dome-like structures. older sandstone, at least 20 million This is Umm Ishrin sandstone, beautiful patterns it forms. hydroxides, and manganese oxides, it is woven with rich oranges, purples, The winding, interlaced patterns on these riverbeds that ran across this landscape in the middle of the period known as the During this period, the planet earth place, almost like the surface of another There were a few plants like mosses and animals on the bare, rocky land. no polar ice, and so, large areas of the shallow seas life to yet have evolved; crustaceans and Over the hundreds of millions of years was deposited on the floors of these rocks of the planet crust, as rainwaters and dust along with them. is more than half a kilometer thick, sheets of younger grey limestone. buried if it weren't for the unique The Arabian Plate is currently being the much larger African and Eurasian It's being pushed north at a rate of 15 or about as fast as your fingernails As it does so, these enormous forces have Syria, and Iran, the land mass to tilt. slope gently towards the northeast. The the powerful forces of the wind and sand. shore of the Dead Sea, and at the site of these grey sandstones eroded away, sandstone came into view in all their It's here in this landscape of rosy Nabataeans would begin. The earliest hints of a people who may sources of the late kings of Assyria in Like many rulers of this region before nomadic tribal peoples living in the The 7th century BC Assyrian king inscription detailing one of his In my first campaign, -Baladan, King of Babylonia, together with of Kish. On Damunu, the Nabatu, who were not submissive at Sennacherib's grandson, the king these desert peoples. The Nabatu live in a far-off desert and not even birds build their nests. Today, many scholars dismiss the ancient Nabatu and the later Nabataeans But what we do know is that since the have lived in this kind of nomadic These people would have no fixed towns would move with their herds, constructing restlessly as the desert sands. like goats, sheep, and cows, which could They would forage and hunt what they perhaps plant orchards that they would routes. the Nabataeans would also act as pirates using their knowledge of the desert to caravans that passed through their The first century Roman writer Strabo dabbled in seaborne piracy. population and well-supplied with They also dwell on islands situated off and these Nabataeans formally lived a but later, by means of rafts, went to from Egypt, went over Soon, it seems that the Nabataeans not to rob the trade caravans but to their territory for a price, step to organizing the caravans By the end of the first millennium BC, rivals and now dominated the business of Arabia. Hebrew Bible were being written down, south were already making a killing. account is made of the wealth of the particular mention of the wealth of the Now, the weight of gold that came to was 603 score and six talents of gold. and of the traffic of the spice and of the governors of the country. The first truly solid account of the the year and the Greek writer known as Hieronymus Hieronymus wrote an apparently detailed expounding on their history, their unfortunately for us, that text hasn't but he was used as a major source for historian Diodorus of Sicily, writing In his work, Diodorus gives a lengthy the earlier observations of Hieronymus He paints a picture of an uncompromising of settled society out of a desire for For the sake of those who do not know, it the customs of these Arabs, by following liberty. desert and partly waterless, though a They live in the open air, claiming as neither rivers nor abundant springs from to obtain water. It is their custom fruit-bearing tree, use wine, nor found acting contrary to this, death is They follow this custom because they things are, in order to retain the use of do their bidding. Diodorus also recounts the great wealth their control of crucial trade routes Some of them raised their camels, others While there are many Arab tribes who use surpass the others in wealth, although in number, for not a few of them are frankincense and myrrh and the most procure from those who convey them. Frankincense and myrrh are the resins of family, the Arabian Peninsula in India and North When the bark of these trees is damaged, their wounds which forms a glassy seal, from further harm. bacterial infections just like we are, resins are filled with volatile similar to our own immune system. It's in interesting ways on the human sense For at least the last five thousand their antibacterial properties in when burned. Frankincense releases a sweet and woody releases a smell that is more like spice, At harvest times, the trees and collect the milky resins Once exposed to air and sun, myrrh dries chunks, while frankincense dries to pale Diodorus of Sicily even claims that the that sailors traveling up the coast of past. A group of Greek sailors who ran out of year 300 AD and stumbled upon a plantation of these They were later interviewed by the everything they told him about the They said that on the coasting voyage, mountains and saw these trees and the They reported that with both trees, both in the stems and in the branches, dropping, but that in others it remained places, mats woven of palm leaves were while that which remained sticky to the The cultivation of these trees was rise to outlandish myths. 5th century BC, these incenses, of monsters that guarded them. lands in the direction of the midday, frankincense and myrrh. Arabians, frankincense are guarded by winged small in size and of various colors, tree, trees by any other thing but only the We will never know whether this was a purposeful piece of disinformation scare others away from their lucrative If this latter was the case, then it the stories of venomous flying snakes ancient Greek writers, of Arabia by sea were ever brave enough plantations for themselves. It's not hard to see after. age would likely have been a potent mix Even in the most refined cities, existed at all, often mean that waste would build up With no refrigeration, food would spoil tanning used dung and urine to produce combined to create a heady assault on there. discomfort was something they were Aside from this obvious use, the burning spiritual dimension. wanted to create a clear divide between space, and the dirty, smelly world outside, do this. the connection between bad smells and Our sense of smell evolved in part to waste and decaying matter, those who lived close to foul-smelling get sick more often and even recorded, it's clear that people be evidence of the existence of evil lingering in the air, waiting to cause them. temple was to give people comfort from misfortune, and to do this, they would putrid smells and the evil associated This use of incense to create a sense of It was mentioned as part of rituals in even describes a particular blend of ground and burnt in the sacred altar goes so far as to forbid its use for any Then the Lord said to Moses, galbanum, amounts, and make a fragrant blend of It is to be salted and pure Grind some of it to a powder and place law in the tent of meeting. Do not make any incense with this Whoever makes incense like it to enjoy people. From this connection to the divine, the function of royalty. of Hebrew queens and in the embalming pharaohs. Gospel of Matthew describes a group of attend the birth of Jesus, and who bring royalty; gifts designed to reinforce his claim to descendant of King David. was serious business. frivolous luxuries, but they were religious authority and the power of the As societies became more centralized and wealth, the demand for incense would only As the second and first centuries BC themselves at the very heart of this Camels would soon lumber across the frankincense and myrrh from Oman, sacks from Syria, All of this would pass through a multiple trade routes, semi-mythical reputation around the To the Nabataeans, this city was known as but to the people of the wider world, it for rock, the element from which it was This was the city of Petra. The site of Petra has been inhabited for and this is partly due to its A freshwater spring rises from the it's held in traditional beliefs to be Moses once struck a rock with his staff stones. in this arid desert the early peoples who settled here. porous sandstones, they gather in slowly leech out of the rocks along the This means that the very stones of water towers, through the long, dry months of the Over millions of years, but heavy winter rains, have cut through ravine known as a Siq wound its way Beyond this was a perfectly enclosed sheltered by high cliffs from the desert and with a constant supply of fresh The first century Roman author and early account of the city in his work, The Nabataeans inhabit a town named Petra. than two miles wide, and is surrounded by flowing between them. Its distance from the town of Gaza on from the Persian Gulf is This naturally-occurring spring water but as the city's importance grew and on its supply must have grown and grown. the region, the Nabataeans began to build aqueducts into the sandstone of the plumbing systems out of terracotta pipes springs directly into the heart of the They also learned techniques for enormous effect. wasn't quite as arid 2,000 years ago as desert. rarely, January, could consist of just one or two of summer, rainfall stops entirely. to maximize the amount of water they spells. depressions and hollows, and for of these natural pools. water would naturally drain away over To fix this problem, the Nabataeans hard stucco plaster, could be used long into the season of They built large dams across the valleys also reduce the flooding that occurred well-worn channels it had cut for of the valley. water resources meant that Petra was as 20,000 permanent residents large trading caravans, many of them made arriving thirsty from the long desert Soon, the water was even abundant luxurious purposes. to bathe, make wine, cultivate fruit, and shade of palm trees. just a city of tombs; sprawling with lush gardens and pleasant villas. glimpse of this. Petra, as it is called, for it lies on a but it is fortified all around by a rock, precipitous and sheer, and the inside for domestic purposes and for watering Outside the circuit of the rock, most of towards Judaea. Some of the Nabataeans' own existing within the city. Petra illustrates some of the here and which may have belonged to a and its description stands in stark that today stretch out around it. This tomb and the large burial chamber beyond it, the enclosure in front of them, and the gardens and pleasure garden, and walls, and all the rest of the property dedicated to Dushara, the god of our and his sacred throne and all the countryside, with enough water, the Nabataeans still employ a unique style of farming that terrain. land, digging it out into a shallow and at this point, they would plant a When the rains came, the water would tree could survive. To plant an orchard about fifty times the normal space, but it in the desert, one thing the Nabataeans The Nabataeans also used their expertise advantage. built a system of secret hidden that only they could take advantage of move in on their lucrative trade routes. reservoirs also gave them an advantage as Diodorus recalls. They are exceptionally fond of freedom, comes near, they take refuge in the lacks water and cannot be crossed by Since they have prepared subterranean of which they make very small. After they close the openings, making them even leave signs that are known to themselves water their cattle every other day so places, they may not need a continuous But despite the immense difficulties of it was all worth it. of a spider's web of trade routes To the east, desert roads led to the port in the Persian Gulf, where spices from and pepper flowed, as well as precious China. poured into Petra from the incense Petra connected the nearby Red Sea port town of Gaza, connecting the markets of and on the roads to the north lay the To the west, the roads led from Petra demand, brought from Afghanistan, along lazuli. brought from Abyssinia. cosmetic powders and eye shadows, flowed carved from giant clam shells harvested The tarry substance bitumen was farmed Egypt to help in the embalming process of ships. transferring of all of these goods by charge a tax that passed through their lands. grow fabulously, even absurdly, wealthy. jealous eyes to the fortune they had The Nabataeans were not a warrior people, wherever possible, not to fight. defending themselves when attacked, as shows. The society of the Nabataeans rose into of history's most dramatic reshufflings Towards the end of the 4th century BC, mountainous kingdom of Macedon in ten-year campaign that would see him eastwards to capture vast swathes of invading India. city of Babylon, He left in his wake a series of large to Egypt, one another over who would rule the One of these kingdoms was ruled by a under Alexander and who had served him Antigonus had lost an eye after a splintering catapult bolt while he has gone down in history by the name the One-Eyed. He soon embarked on a determined empire and rule over it himself. He lands of his rivals, and conquered down eventually reaching the borders of the War is an expensive business, and as with permanently short of money. south, and dreamed of seizing the fabled In the year 312 BC, he ordered one of his into the desert and seize as much as he traders. phalanxes of Antigonus were among the some having served under Alexander seem to have expected much of a Athenaeus marched out into the desert foot soldiers armed with long pikes, and as Diodorus of Sicily recounts. Deciding that this people was hostile to friends, Athenaeus, and gave him 4,000 fitted for speed, and ordered him to set all their cattle as plunder. It took Athenaeus and his soldiers three the desert, legendary stone city. a nighttime attack. army waiting and watching, rosy stones of the city and the sun sat desert. the soldiers stormed into the city. undefended. garrison guarding the city of Petra, and What followed was a frenzy of looting, wealth that had been amassed in this Athenaeus and his men loaded themselves their animals could carry, and reportedly Not content with that, they also rounded could and abducted them with the Diodorus recalls. some he slew at once, some he took as left behind, gathered together the larger part and The Greeks, hardly believing how easy it and loot as fast as they could, and made Weighed down with treasure and prisoners, struggling in the desert landscape, Petra and thought that there would be But they had not reckoned on the Only a few hours after Athenaeus and his Nabataean men began to return to the Finding its houses and temples looted heard about the Greek attack from pursuit. men from every village they passed swollen to a horde of 8,000 They loped across the desert with easily outpacing the Greek horses, and While the men of Athenaeus' were encamped because of their weariness, were in deep Some of their prisoners escaped secretly, the condition of the enemy, attacked the less than 8,000 in number. Under cover of darkness, the enraged slaughtered everyone they could find. Most of the hostile troops they the rest they slew with their javelins In the end, but of the horsemen, about fifty escaped, and When the Nabataeans had manfully returned to the rock with the property Every single Greek foot soldier was cavalry were able to flee the scene and For the Greeks, this was an incredible but it's clear the Nabataeans had no message to King Antigonus in Aramaic, the East, explaining why they had wiped out aggression against them. his best to save face. To Antigonus they wrote a letter in Athenaeus and vindicated themselves. they had been justified in defending Athenaeus, saying that he made the attack given. hiding his own intentions and desiring security. they seemed to have been relieved of trust the words of Antigonus. they placed watchmen upon the hills from distance the passes into Arabia. This final act of caution seems to have In fact, King Antigonus had no intention defeat at the hands of a people he He ordered his son Demetrius to march accomplish what Athenaeus could not, soldiers and a much larger force of But Demetrius would not have much more The watchmen that the Nabataeans had spotted the advancing Greeks and lit The desert people scattered their flocks, hidden places, women, and children with them. possibly a flat-topped mountain named Umm city of Petra. Demetrius, on arriving at the rock and made repeated assaults upon the Those within resisted stoutly and easily of the place. So, on this day, after he he recalled his soldiers by a trumpet The Greek general Demetrius was clearly The single narrow approach up to the attack on it virtually impossible, and the Nabataeans had a gift with words. a fresh round of assaults, someone called impassioned plea, On the next day, however, when he had barbarians called to him, saying, "King compulsion do you war against us who has neither water, nor grain, those that pertain to the necessities of For we, since we are in no way willing to land that lacks all the things that are chosen to live a life in the desert, We therefore beg both you and your but after receiving gifts from us to the Nabataeans as your friends, here many days since you lack water and force us to live a different life. Here, we can see the Nabataeans deploying Their strategic control of the water, that any protracted siege of the city and their enormous wealth often meant enemies. siege was hopeless. Nabataeans and marched back to his lands good deal richer. been quite angry at his son's decision, Antigonus, when Demetrius returned and done, rebuked him for the treaty with the barbarians much bolder by leaving them since it would seem to them that they kindness them. This episode gives us a marvelous that the Nabataeans employed, out of conquest and death, from the desert rocks and the endless the desert from hand to hand. In telling the story of the Nabataeans, missing, themselves. the Nabataeans had a good level of could read and write to some extent. Aramaic, ultimately derived from what's by the Persian Empire. stones all over the Jordanian desert, were capable of writing at least their but despite this apparently widespread actually written by Nabataeans have We may never know the reasons for this. Nabataean society meant that they had storytellers whose job it was to and that while these storytellers were to write those histories down. this kind may even have jealously them from being written down, in order to But all of this is speculation, and for left us on this matter is silence. The almost complete lack of Nabataean we are left searching through the looking for any mention of them. fragmentary, and form instantaneous Nabataeans appear suddenly in the again into darkness. Antigonus the One-Eyed and his two colorful account from the papyrus Zenon, a right-hand man to the minister BC. chariot driver who had seen two of his with a group of Nabataeans. apparently been moonlighting as human selling them in the cities they visited. charioteer, Dionysius to the slave girl, border guard. Nabataeans, was put under guard and placed in Concerning further details, if you you will learn the entire truth. This remarkable and enigmatic entry shows that the Nabataeans were already East. Nabataeans to utter their shout of Perhaps it was some personal insult or a but some historians have wondered were offended by the men's treatment of to dole out some justice of their own. women in high regard, with queens coins, and with tomb inscriptions households. that the Greek's treatment of these cultural sensibilities. the records of the Roman-Jewish account of the Jewish Maccabee revolt hundred years later. named Judas Maccabeus, and at one point, he Selucid forces across the river Jordan. brothers and their rebel forces ran into These Nabataeans met them on friendly atrocities that the Selucids had been Now, as for Judas Maccabeus and his they passed over the river Jordan, and they lighted upon the Nabataeans who and who told them how the affairs of how many of them were in distress cities of Galilee, and exhorted him to and to endeavor to save his own To this exhortation Judas hearkened and and in the first place took the city. fascinating but frustrating. The long-standing friendly relationship with supportive of their rebellion. clearly valuing their own independence, with a great deal of sympathy. opportunity to cause trouble for the the north. An inscription at the archaeological contains the first mention of the name This inscription, written in a very early following. This is the place which Nuthairu made for Nabataeans. Nabataea that we can definitively put a Nabataea was not just a tribal Half a century later, by the year 129 BC, showing that Petra was now recognized as One inscription from a Greek ambassador the city of Priene in modern day Turkey. diplomatic missions around the region, breath; and the city of Petra. He acted as an envoy on behalf of the both to kings and to cities, and he advantage of the people. free gift, but when he was sent by his Ptolemaios in Alexandria and to Petra in he stayed there for a longer time that It's clear that by this time, the tribal true regional power and gained the They now directly controlled territory Negev Desert, and across Palestine, but further. cities laden with goods and crossed the and as the power of the Nabataeans grew, capital. Petra was now a hive of temples and tombs, directly imitating the Greek neighbors. first century BC, that the people of impressive monument from their unique That's the enormous edifice known today The towering construction known as the buildings in the world. of a Nabataean king, possibly Aretas II, But no inscriptions stand beside this or who built it. testimony to the golden age of the point to have been designed for maximum Ancient visitors to Petra would walk winding through the towering walls of and finally emerge into this spectacle The towering colonnades and galleries of intended impact on modern tourists to more than two millennia after its At the time it was built, the ground meters lower than it is today, and a doorway. Nabataean art of stone carving with Greek depicting Nabataean gods alongside Greek cities, and Egyptian gods like Isis. people of Petra were laying claim to a surrounded them, and marking their city world. pickaxes and chisels, and today you can scaffolding of the workers who toiled conditions to bring its perfect When the Khazneh was built, it would have who had never seen anything like it in But in the coming century, the building monuments. as the monastery, and another named the monuments are smaller, less ambitious, and towering facade of the Khazneh. Thanks to visitors who passed through in amount about what the average citizen of everyday life. The first century Greek writer and enjoyed by the Nabataeans. with fruits, except the olive. They use The sheep are white-fleeced and the oxen horses. instead of horses. We can also find a reference to a as Khubz al-ma' al-Nabati', or Nabataean by Ibn Sayyar al-Warraq. Take seven and a half pounds of good- and sift it in a big wooden bowl. three ounces salt that has been Knead the mixture into a very firm dough, Cover the dough and let it ferment. sesame seeds, light the tannur, smolder gently. dirhams sesame oil or olive oil, flatten it by hand and stick it to the It's likely that the Nabataeans would morning, lighting a fire unbearable. We can drifting through the shaded gullies of smells of baking bread, yeast, and According to sources of the time, walking colorful experience. colored clothes of the city's would have wafted through the streets. around their loins and with slippers on their case the color is purple. other countries, but others not those that are native products, as for aromatics, whereas brass and iron, as embossed works, paintings, and molded Nabataean religion revolved mostly Dushara, who was responsible for justice and sun. square-shaped blocks of stone. sacrifices to Dushara, of Petra's most abundant trade commodity; They worship the sun, building an altar libations on it daily, and burning No doubt the temples of Petra would have and other aromatics wafting out into its and goats, cooking food, and smoldering Many of the peoples of Nabataea were year round from trade post to trade post. community, it seems they did all gather market, part ceremony, and part feast Nabataeans would come together to talk, tell stories, and of course, drink Strabo describes the sights of one of and he's struck by the noticeable lack would have been remarkable to someone But when the time draws near for the dwell round about are accustomed to meet, certain rock their possessions and their children. served by their kinsfolk for the most so that the custom extends even to their in groups of thirteen persons, and they have The king holds many drinking bouts in than eleven cupfuls, each time using a The king is so democratic that in even serves the rest himself in his turn. The fact that we have to largely rely on the daily lives of the Nabataeans is period. But in fact, the Nabataeans did literature; that's the inscriptions tombs in their own distinctive script. Many of the most complete of these can northwest of modern Saudi Arabia. Aretas IV, in the final years of the first second capital. dramatic and impressive than those at distances, desert plain. Arabic as Qasr al-Farid, or the Lonely It is as finely carved as anything found haunting monument to the city that once now buried beneath the sands. The tomb inscriptions of Hegra are Many of them are extremely weathered desert winds for more than 2,000 years, legible. warnings of curses from the gods that they were also binding legal documents, property of a single family down the by fines. a prime example of this hybrid form. This is the tomb and platform and Nafiyu, son of Alkuf the Taymanite, made his mother, and their children -- inviolability among the Nabataeans and and may Dushara curse anybody who buries anyone except those inscribed above, or buys it, or gives it in pledge or or makes a gift of it, and whoever does other than what is shall be liable to the god Dushara and to our lord King Haretat In the month of Shebat, king of the Nabataeans, Inside the tomb, the niches are marked These are the two burial niches of and Abdalga and Habbu, his children, curse whoever removes them forever. These tomb inscriptions all more or less limited in what they can teach us, they even poignancy when we consider that actually written by Nabataeans. testament is their tombstones. learn little glimmers of information. We learn about the names of their gods of them. We can hear Nabataean names, and trees, their wives and sisters and We can hear hints of a society in which kind of independent authority, enforced with laws and fines. even given to the masons who carved the importance that these artists held in In the month of Nisan, the 36th year of people, Aftah, son of Abdo-Bodat, the masons, Since the professions of the people we also get a wonderful account of the make their living in the cities of Hegra the governor; Aydu the prefect; Manotu the exorcist priest; the centurion. All of these people lived full lives in these cities. They had friends, families, that is left are the faded inscriptions desert winds and rain. Despite their centuries of domination of would eventually encounter an enemy that off. on a peninsula far off in the central its most enormous height, Sea That was the power of Rome. By the end of the first century BC, the Roman Empire, a confident expanding By this time, Rome had conquered Judaea Herod the Great, to rule it as a colony. Rome also conquered the Greek kingdom of legions to the banks of the Nile. them, the Romans began to look hungrily and the incense fields of Arabia. Rome was an enormous consumer of incense. myrrh as part of their rituals, and with temples would now stretch across all of Morocco to Mesopotamia. estimated that each year, well over a imported into the Roman Empire. tax that the Nabataeans charged on this, began to consider ways of cutting out incense trade themselves. Augustus sent one of his prefects who explore the south of Arabia, accompanied and to establish new direct trade routes This man's name was Aelius Gallus. The geographer Strabo recalls the Aelius Gallus conceived the purpose of or of subjugating them. which had prevailed from all time, that sold aromatics and the most valuable but never expended with outsiders any for he expected either to deal with or to master wealthy enemies. Curiously, the Nabataeans seemed all too expedition. own people as a guide. expectation of assistance from the promised to cooperate with him in every Considering that the Nabataeans stood to was a success, suspicious of these offers of help, The guide that the Nabataean king sent named Syllaeus, a cunning politician high Syllaeus faced an unenviable task; Roman expedition so as not to arouse the Nabataean king had made quite clear that Trapped between the Romans and his own sleepless nights as he guided the Roman Strabo recounts how the mission unfolded. Gallus set out on the expedition, but he administrator Syllaeus, on the march with him, and pointed out neither a safe voyage nor a safe journey by land, no roads and through regions destitute of or along rocky shores that had no shallow or full of submarine rocks, the flood tides, caused very great distress. It's clear that at every turn, the and weaken Aelius Gallus' expedition, After many experiences and hardships, he land of the Nabataeans, although he had some of these being lost, crews and all, but not on account of any enemy. Syllaeus, army to go to Leuke Kome by land, camel traders travel back and forth from in safety The expedition of Aelius Gallus would the coast of southern Arabia, suffering poisoned herbs and drinking tainted sickness and disease. across the stony desert wastes, and take terrain, baking in the searing Arabian suffering from heat stroke and fatigue. original force remaining, Gallus was Although he was within reach of his goal, of them would survive, and he feared that months. and march back along the desert roads, realized the trick that had been played He was indeed only two days' journey from informed by his captives, marches because of bad guidance, back, against him and had gone back by other On his return, he accomplished the whole He'd used up six months in his first It's not recorded whether Syllaeus stuck commander or whether he slunk away in Strabo recounts the sorry sight of the Alexandria, empty-handed. Thence he carried his army across the Myus and with all who had been fortunate The rest he had lost fatigue, and hunger and bad roads, For these reasons, this expedition did knowledge of these regions. For his part, Syllaeus seems to have The failure of this disastrous The empire would soon be convulsed by distracted to think about expanding any Syllaeus' actions would buy his people Rome's civil wars would not last forever, writing was on the wall. first millennium AD, Rome officially into its enormous empire. surrounded by this overwhelming power, independent kingdom was soon to come to The last king of the Nabataeans was a who had ruled for thirty-six years. Roman emperor Trajan ordered two legions lands of Nabataea. particular pretext for the invasion; who was ready to take the throne, but waste its opening. Roman governor of Syria, a man named Under his command, the Third Cyrenaica while the Sixth Ferrata legion, a Syrian town of Bostra. little resistance. underwhelming that the Roman historian detailed writer, had only the following About this time, part of Arabia around Petra and made it This sparse report is wedged in between against the Dacians and his spectacles Even the Roman coins minted to celebrate understated nature of the campaign. They adquisita' For the Romans, Arabia had not been Some units of the Nabataean's elite royal invaders, saw no point in fighting the inevitable. age of Nabataean independence finally Rome would name the province they great city, and the period of Roman Petra From what we can tell, it seems that for kingdom, the annexation by Rome had first. situation. changed, the governors and a handful of In due course, the old royal army was as six portraying cohorts, As for the non-military majority, scribes, priests, musicians, jugglers, or were, paid their taxes to the new and pursued the accustomed daily pattern Usually when Rome captured an area, they aqueducts and water systems, Nabataean water system virtually This suggests that they saw little room engineering. To ensure the security of their new memories of Aelius Gallus' expedition highway through the entire territory. Trajan's New Road, a 400-kilometer the sea port of Aqaba on the Red Sea. permanent control of the trade routes, to and meaning that the Romans could now One Roman citizen, Aelius Aristides, who in the Roman province of Asia, wrote the shows that the Romans believed that the finally been pacified. legendary affairs of the past. country to another as though it were his We are no longer frightened by the tracks that lead from Arabia to Egypt. mountains or by the vast breadth of barbarians. guarantee of personal safety. For the city of Petra, the period of of the end. ultimately be undone by cultural and world along with them. In the third and fourth centuries, the changes. fringe group of worshipers based around prophet, had grown to become a real For a time, Christianity was outlawed in emperor Diocletian, records show that the their refusal to sacrifice to Roman gods. labor in the nearby Roman copper mines Christianity was finally adopted by the major belief system of the late Roman But as Christian modes of worship spread, also changed, the commodities that people consumed and While today we think of incense as an and orthodox churches, early Christians between themselves and the old pagan For this reason, Christians at this time As pagan temples were shut down, demand to fall. change came at the same time as Egyptian trade routes for incense, spices, and As an independent kingdom, the Nabataeans frankincense, but with Nabataea conquered, the more efficient route; carrying goods arduous desert roads by land. Nabataeans had feared came to pass. began to fall. Although it had given its name to the also seemed to have had little use for The very things that had made Petra remote, hidden, and difficult to reach it Roman administration which needed good increasingly conducted the running of well-connected town of Bostra, administrative center of the region fell Petra at this time must have been a sad The former markets and workshops that have grown smaller every year as fewer fine cliffside houses, where once hung up their laundry and watched the would have become abandoned one by one, that would have howled to one another at in the gradually emptying valleys. may still have continued as an important of the 18th of May, in the year 363 It was the middle of the night when the a shuddering and shaking in the earth, Somewhere deep in the faultline of the the edges of the African and Arabian an earthquake shook the region. This would be known as the Galilee the 18th and 19th of May in the year 363. bishop Cyril of Jerusalem, recalls the This event took place on Monday at the and partly at the ninth hour of the There was a great loss of life here. and mighty prodigies took place, The land shook considerably and there about. regions, as well as the majority of the just in the earthquake, heavy rain they had. Cyril goes on to list the settlements that more than half of the city of Petra Now we should like to write down for you overthrown; more than half of it, part of Baishan, the whole of Nikopolis and its territory, too, Haifa flowed with blood for three days. Rhesaina region wrote the following as a punishment from god for the At that time, the Lord was angry with the Samaritans and of the false teachings in madness of the pagan Julian, presence and began to destroy the had defiled them with blood which they It began to destroy the cities, 21 in some collapsed, and yet others survived and on the 27th day in that month, in the Archaeological evidence in Petra devastating disaster. One house excavated by archaeologists this time. number of everyday domestic items were lamps, and coins, Near the door, a smashed pot contained 85 apparently kept there for everyday The fact that these were never reclaimed suggests that the damage in the city was to even pick through, Many of Petra's great public buildings The so-called Temple of the Winged Lions, and the public theater were all damaged, Particularly devastating seems to have city's water systems. would have leaked their precious water split open. rainwater collapsed, causing widespread city's supplies. directly linked to its capacity to store now coming apart at the seams, its water leach away into the dust of the desert. It's clear that some of Petra's people after the earthquake. Street, archaeology shows that some of and a shanty town of simple shops and reclaimed from the rubble. system meant that the annual flash We can see the evidence of these floods floors of these humble buildings, in the rainy season, flooding everyone's punishing drought. after the earthquake, their lives. although they were largely built from monuments. earthquake struck and after that, most of The dream of Petra had died, and the city Despite all of this damage, people did around the ruins of Petra, caravan stop for several more centuries. hollowed-out cave houses, right up to the modern era. the Byzantine Empire, the old city of province of Palaestina Tertia, around the city. discovered, which contained mainly showing that people were still living in According to the writer John Moschus, decades of the 7th century, a man named But some time before the year 687, that the position ceased to exist. faith of Islam and the teachings of the Petra doesn't seem to have featured in mentioned once in the narratives of the in any early Islamic records. another city of Petra was finally abandoned for The Arabic that these new rulers spoke Nabataean spoken by the ancient peoples Rose City was an irrelevance, a city of stones. The Muslims who came after and built struck by the incredible sight of these still left at the sites of Hegra and To explain them, they told stories about were punished by god for refusing to Salih. One version of this is given in or the Chapter of the Heights. And they flouted the commandment of and they said, bring upon us that thou threatenest Allah. and morning found them prostrate in their And Salih oh my people, I delivered my lord's advice, As for the earth, we spread it out and and caused everything to grow there in We made in it means of sustenance for We send fertilizing winds and bring down But the residents of the stone valley We gave them our signs, They carved their homes in the mountains, but the mighty blast overtook them in and all they achieved For these later people, the towering warnings about excessive pride, and a power of god can always undo the works For others, the ruins inspired poetry. I want to end the episode with a reading a man named Tarafa. ruined sights that littered the horizon like the Nabataeans. of these ruins and the injustice of life. like to live in the great city of Petra slowly ebb from the city around you, as numbers across the sands. great stones of the city, the feeling of and no one left knew how to repair them, departed across the desert to begin new Imagine watching the sands creep in to the stables and the workshops, finally tombs. The ruins Khawla left on the mottled like the trace of a tattoo on the back There, my friends halted tall camels over don't lose yourself in grief, man. Endure. and he imagines impending ruin, though no Death does not miss the brave - around the twisted coils. he is still alive. for his wealth, like the tomb of the Two heaps of earth were silent slabs of I see death choose the generous and the while picking over the best part of the I see a life, a treasure, shrunken by days and time, Thank you once again for listening to I'd like to thank my voice actors for Nick Denton, Jay Forrester, Shem Jacobs, I love to hear your thoughts and tell me what you thought. if you'd like updates about the podcast, as images, maps, and reading suggestions, Civ_Pod with underscores separating the This podcast can only keep going with on Patreon. costs, and you let me dedicate more time editing to get the episodes out to you to them as possible. making this happen. consider heading onto patreon.com underscore podcast, Fall of Civilizations Patreon. That's For now, goodbye, and thanks for listening.