As we reach the end of this year's No Effort November, it's time once again for me to embark suck less. If you're new to this tradition, where I attempt to both explain what irritates me and where I attempt my own fixes to make modern, Hallelujah from Handel's Messiah starts This year, I didn't have to do a thing! That's right, it finally happened! You see those beautiful red, yellow, blue, and green Yeah, well, it turns out They're Vintaglos, a line of LED Christmas lights to a T, the thing I have been trying to make this whole time! I was able to just buy my way out of this nonsense and I couldn't be happier! Now, this video is going to be much more than a simple celebration but before we get any further, it is important to me that you know I bought these with my own money I found out about these through my friend Dan and immediately ordered some to see if they were as good as they looked. And they were, so I immediately ordered much more. These are not cheap: these are $25 per set of 100 (though at the time of video release they are currently on sale for $20 per set if ordered via their website) and they aren't perfect. They're extremely close to perfect, so my complaints are just nitpicks, but I will go over them in the spirit of fair product reviews. Before we get there, though, I want to back up Because, well, I've not done a very great job of that in years past Yes, the Midwest's own Menards has come out with a line of sure do look like the sort of thing I've been asking for. They have deeply-colored caps - I think they're even glass - which and aside from the inclusion of purple which I'm not thrilled by, this looks promising. Until you plug them in and... that happens. Yes, the diodes under those caps are color-matched to the cap. And that means the actual color produced by these lights is coming That spectral color is just plain ugly and way too harsh, This is not what Christmas looks like, this is what a vape shop looks like. Or worse, a gaming PC. That was a joke, please don't come after me. What do I mean by monochromatic light and color-matched diodes? Well, okay, I don't want to go too deeply down the rabbit but the visible spectrum of light is simply electromagnetic radiation wavelengths between 750 and roughly 400 nanometers. Each of the individual wavelengths along that range It's literally the rainbow: that visual phenomenon allows from the reds on the long end to the violets on the short end There was also a Pink Floyd album about it or something. White light, the kind of light the sun makes (with a few noticeable exceptions) is a big ol' mess of all those wavelengths, or at least a combination of wavelengths If those cone cells are all activated together, But when that white light lands on colored objects, so the wavelengths that get reflected back to our eyes are a little different and they activate our cone cells in a different ratio which we interpret as a color. But light which appears colored due to reflecting off of something Before the LED came along and when we wanted a light source to be a particular color That's what's going on with this set of Christmas lights: these are the same exact incandescent filaments as these, producing a full-spectrum white light, but before that light exits the glass it goes through a color filter Now, here's the key thing: This filtering is not perfect. The green filter, for example, doesn't let a single wavelength of green light through, And that means this green is not a pure spectral color - it's awfully green, to be sure, the actual hot glowing filament producing the light looks... It looks that way because we're looking at the very brightest spot If I unfocus the camera's lens so we're not able to see the filament, the green appears much more intense and really does look like an emerald green but it's still not a spectral color. Light-emitting diodes, on the other hand, well they do emit spectral colors. LEDs emit light of a single wavelength. Just one. So whatever wavelength of "green" is being emitted by a green LED And in this light set, those are green LEDs. Yes, they have a dark green color filter over them, but that filter isn't doing anything! There's a single wavelength of light being emitted by the diode, It might reduce the output a little bit, but it's going to look the same That is why these LED light sets look so stinking harsh. They are a cluster of colors which are and while some of you may like that, I really don't. Especially when it comes to blue: incandescent light sets have pretty dull blues because incandescent filaments don't produce that much light on the shorter end of the visible light spectrum. So when you're filtering out all the long wavelengths you just don't have that much light output left. It's still a very pretty and intense blue color, like it is here. And the greens in an LED light set are almost always just as bad to my eyes. The wildest thing to me about this problem is that it's trivially easy to fix! White LEDs have been a thing for a long time now, These days we have LED lighting which is virtually made possible by complex phosphor coatings which shift blue and down to all the other wavelengths of light we need to And what I've been doing these past seven years and painting them with various colored stuffs I found it kind of baffling that nobody else had had this thought. Why not just make Christmas lights exactly like we but swap the incandescent filaments Then we could have the best of both worlds! Luckily, a few years ago Tru-Tone started up and did exactly that. Tru-Tone makes incredible C7 and C9 These are made exactly like the incandescent bulbs of the past but rather than have a tungsten filament generating the light, And they're amazing! They are essentially perfect, the only thing that gives them away as LED is the fact that they are actually flashing 120 times per second with the incoming AC power, but unless you're very sensitive to that you probably won't notice Now, because this idea is so obvious, Menards, as a matter of fact, is now selling However, Tru-Tone is still the only place this is what Menards is selling and... yeah it's awful. Those are colored diodes under the glass But, personally, I don't use these big lights very much or at all. I've always been a mini-light person - I just prefer the way Tru-Tone doesn't make any of these, Lots of retailers are selling things now which are vintage-ish, and for what it's worth I actually do kind of like this new implementation where a tiny diode under a resin blob is sticking up into the envelope - that mimics the look of a filament pretty well. However, that's nowhere near as important to me as the color accuracy and so I've just been patiently experimenting with ways to hand-color Over the years I've tried sharpies, I've tried nail polish, I've tried spray paint, craft paint, transparent craft paint, dyed resin, literal dye like for clothing, and other things I'm sure I've forgotten they were either extremely annoying to apply The best option so far has been transparent modelling paint applied with an airbrush. I let this light set stay out all summer and, surprisingly, Uh, half the set doesn't work cuz a wire broke but the colors haven't faded at all so if worse comes to worst there's always this option. But this year, oh this year, I have finally found the holy grail. Someone who bothered to do this at the time of And they really went above and beyond. First, let's ignore this multicolored set and instead look at this white set. This is, without a doubt, Most white LED sets have diodes which can best be described as... cheap. They're often not unpleasant to look at - I have seen But the quality of the light that they cast is... pretty craptastic. If you were to illuminate a room using a typical set The color rendering index on those LEDs is poop. These, though, these are warm-white diodes that The light they cast on objects looks perfectly normal. This is so close to what an actual incandescent light sets look like The only thing I could possibly wish for was some smoothing However the fact that these actually are full-wave rectified A lot of AC-powered light sets like this are only half-wave rectified These appear to be burning quite steadily and it's hard to notice the strobing at all. Great stuff. A base of actually-good warm-white diodes laid the groundwork put those same warm white diodes under intensely-colored plastic caps so we can have a multicolored light set which actually looks And that's exactly what these are. And in my preferred color scheme, too! I don't care for pinks, teals, or oranges in my Christmas lights, I have always felt this combination looks nicest, When yellow is swapped for orange or amber, at a distance and when there's another warm color in there like pink or magenta, But anyway, pedantic color preferences aside this is as close to perfect as I could reasonably expect. Next to a real incandescent light set with the same color scheme, they're nearly indistinguishable! The green is slightly desaturated on the Vintaglo set and the yellow itself has just a tinge of green in it - I think I know why and I'll explain that later - but honestly that's just nitpicking. I've decorated with a whole bunch of these light sets I could not be happier. And the sets have some other quality-of-life improvements, too. Out of the box the wires are remarkably flexible. Usually when you get a new set of lights like this you have to really stretch it out to keep it from accordioning back on itself but these hardly need that at all. Which says to me the wire and insulation was specced really well. The overall quality of the lamp holders and plugs is really top-notch, these are the same basic things in every set of lights So what are my complaints? Well, I have two: one of which is technical, I'll start with QC - a couple of the sets that I bought have a few blue lights Which was a bummer for two reasons: one, I was really hoping the plastic itself would be colored that way the coloring was throughout the plastic and it was less likely to fade with time and sun exposure. It does appear to be just a coating, though it may very well hold up much better than the coloring on glass incandescent sets so perhaps I have no reason to be bummed about that at all. But besides potential longevity issues, Not a huge deal at all, but a little disappointing. The second complaint is technical and one that will probably be pretty hard to fix. While these warm-white LEDs are fantastic, there's no way that they're actually producing the same I'm much too lazy to get my hands on a spectroscope to show you this but white LEDs actually have fairly spiky spectral emissions which our eyes almost never notice - they're tuned really well these days and you have to have a in this case, because we're using a color filter on a light the color filtering doesn't behave exactly the Now, before you think this is a big deal, The effect of this is miniscule but it's probably why I'm To make yellow light from a white light source you really just have to filter out To our eyes a combination of red and green wavelengths looks like yellow - that's how your screen is making this yellow right now. It's just red and green subpixels lighting up together. But this filter over an LED isn't going to let a huge collection of wavelengths it's letting... whatever spiky emissions from the white diode are shorter than blue, and if the green is a little strong compared to, say, orangey wavelengths, well you're gonna be able to see it. And I can. In an actual display of lights this is practically irrelevant. When I look at the decorations I've put up, I can't notice this at all. They look exactly like I want them to look. However, where it is more noticeable Again, this is super nitpicky stuff, but if I have an then at night they produce a very warm, pleasant glow in the room itself. These don't quite do that. It's not bad by any means, but it's not the same. It's a little too green and a little too... But in all reality, that's a tiny, tiny complaint. When you're actually looking at the lights themselves, you'd be hard pressed to know these are LEDs unless you get up close enough to actually see the tiny little diode chilling at the base of the cap. And that is, in a word, fantasicawesomazing. I am so thrilled that these exist and I really, really hope this continues to be a thing. There are so many advantages to LED Christmas light sets - obviously they use hardly any power at all, And that means you can connect dozens of these light sets end to end And of course they should last much, much longer since they're not incandescent and they won't Yet until this year, I have never found a set They have always been... that. I strongly dislike that. There have been a few sets which I can stomach a little better - a few years ago Walmart had some which actually had far fewer and they did have yellow. In fact that yellow was made by using a white LED under a yellow cap, and that's really good because prior to that the actually-yellow LEDs which were used in multicolored sets were extremely dull compared to the rest. At least the yellow is actually bright now - and this is actually repeated Which is both great and infuriating because seems to understand the value of putting a warm white LED under a colored cap but for some reason has decided yellow is the only color they're gonna do that for. The red is still pure red, the green and blue are still pure and disgusting green and blue, and in this set the purple... honestly I'm wondering if that's a UV diode. It excited the phosphorescent print But anyway, at long last the folks behind Vintaglo have actually done it. And for that, I am very grateful. There is, of course, a link in the description and I really, really hope that they'll be taking pre-orders It's possible that they may offer more color combinations though I understand some people disagree with me. I've also included a link to Tru-Tone in the spirit of supporting small, independent businesses and I wish them continued success as well. OK, well. Uh, that's it. Both for this video and for No Effort November. And, y'know, this might very well be the last time I have to make this video. Clearly there is a strong yearning lots of big box stores are starting to sell variations on the vintage theme. But so far they really just haven't gotten it! At all! [tumbling boxes] It takes a special kind of nerd to insist on the correct diodes driven the correct way placed under the correctly-colored caps using the correct manufacturing procedures and so far I know of only two small companies who have But I'm so glad they exist and that they actually got it done. Happy holidays to everyone out there, and may your festive displays glow with the cozy, welcoming warmth the season deserves. we-wish-you-a-merry-christmasedly smooth jazz Sorry, no bloopers this time. There were only two and I didn't feel they'd be worth it. I mean, neither was great and then it would just be silly "yucks, no more bloopers" so you just get this explanation instead! Oh and some pretty lights. Those are incandescent twinkling lights But hopefully somebody's gonna try!