When I was in Finland, I saw a dream. A really brutal dream. We were fighting, I was lying on the ground, and I heard this combat Then it was my friends who came to me. There was Marcello. &quot;Look man, It felt like it lasted for hours. If any of my comrades died in that battle, I would never have I could not just lead someone to his death and then wash my hands of it That's how I felt. Before, I worked hard. I made good money. I had everything I wanted, I didn't feel like I had a purpose at all. Everything I did felt meaningless, I've always wanted to do something good, I think a lot of people want to do that. I was the only one, who had never taken a weapon in my life. When we started shooting, I spent a whole day thinking Unfortunately, now, We must take up weapons. The end of 2015, Common, dull job. Being stuck in the same neighborhood is what drives me nuts. If I'm stuck doing the same thing, I feel like my brain's rotting. This is my chance, They're probably the most in the world since the Spanish Civil War. You're no longer safe Don't worry, it will happen again. I think we need more. -More? We'll be the first persons and play soccer on that football field. I want to go to the stadium from the Raqqa football team. Wait a second. -A jersey, you know the trick oath? No, of Raqqa, man, of the Raqqa team. -They have a stadium. What are you talking about? Which Raqqa team, man, which one? Khalifa Football Club. You think they played soccer It's haram, you can't play soccer. You can only cut heads That's not haram. The thing is, though, The mosque is huge. Use the ftilie on the door of the mosque and on the small room where the, what's fucking called? The guy who speaks on the microphone. -Imam. -Wassim. We can use it on the room Throw it there, that's it. Ftilie will not work in a room that big. I don't think there is a mine, Unless there was the light putting the mine right there. It's very likely that the mosque I think civilians. Don't shoot whatever moves. See if they have something See how they move, because if they start moving they're most likely Daesh Civilians don't try Just try to get the fuck out of the way. At 5:30, Everything we lack is going Robin, how are you? Because I saw you destroyed today. You're good? Good job. Thanks. Spanish Civil War inspired me immensely, but I don't like to compare the two things because if we do, If we compare the Spanish Civil War, unfortunately, numerically speaking than us. Small numbers The socialist movements around the world are weak, separated, unable to organize themselves effectively. They lack real motivation They're not needed. These revolutions We need this revolution. Try now. Yes. If something happens, Lots of trouble. I felt like if I went here maybe that could be my way It took a lot of courage It's not a happy thing. Some people here For me, it was extremely important There's also this kind of arrogance to it, because then you expect to survive. I have to be honest that there is a real possibility I've accepted that. That's what I told them. See it? That's old. -It's a car. The road we need to take, so we're going to send two people. Come on, let's go. Watch the wires in front of you too. -Ready? Fuck. I can't hear. I think they've missed the car. They're getting Got another rocket for you. It's all right, man. You'll have to grab Do it again, take your time. Be calm, all right? Don't worry about it, just go. Come on, ready? We're covering you. Take your time, aim. Hold on. -Are you ready? Hello? Back inside. Flair. Andok, move back. My job is to lead the clearing team. My team moves into a new building, breaches it with explosives, Come on quickly, guys, Needless to say, Don't touch any. Don't touch. Guys, there is no need No need whatsoever, because if you find a mine, It was dangerous, Always leave one guy downstairs. Let's focus, we have a mission, okay? We don't want to get hurt. This is not enough. It's 4:35. If the sun's coming up, we can't move. We have to make a run for it, all right? All right, let's go. Now, let's see the bandages. How did Arian get a bandage -You see the blast? At the window in safe distance. Arian says he saw this thing with a blinking red light and wheels. I was like, get the fuck Boom! Me and Guevara look at each other. Then he starts screaming ah, it exploded! But yes, no shit. Took off half of the neighborhood. What? Fucking one explosion wasn't enough? I don't know, man. The thing is that now that they have those in here. I mean, we already saw it so they might have more of those. Arian, you look like you crawled No, these guys always look like that. You didn't even wash your hands, God damn. It's just like phosphorus, but yes. It's good for the bones, actually. No, really? Raqqa is a crazy place. Oh, I can leave this place. I can go back to an easy life. This is temporary. The thing about war is though, of course, it's a horrible thing but you can discover a lot about yourself. Discover that you are brave, that you can function that you care deeply about your friends. There's a next level of comradeship, next level of friendship. Those are the, horrible to say, Is it very hot in there? -Baltimore? It gets hot in Baltimore when you have My neighborhood's not like that. It's actually pretty gentrified nowadays. We're really gentrified, It was just like bars everywhere, junkies and prostitutes Not gangs and stuff. Is that like a term for white trash? I've heard white trash, cracker, polar bear for a fat weight, They called you all that? No, I wouldn't call polar bear, What did you call him, sir? Punk ass bitch. Any left? I'm going to college for all these folks, I was the working-class guy. A lot of the kids They'd have certain attitudes around me, Folks say At the same time, because it's just white trash. It's like I don't really fit It is a real joy We're participating in history. I'm just proud to be a witness with all the awesome guys I'm with here. It's warm here, people are friendly. It is a great learning experience for me. I feel like... This is Syria. All right, guys, get out. These are holes in the walls, Cover them all up, keep doing these holes. Keep doing them, one, two, three. -Okay? Great! Great! Set a guard at the door. And shut the door! Hey, turn that light out! I don't want to see Can you see the big three-storey building? On the right side, Yes, I can see it. On the south side. What did you see? I saw shadows moving. -In the window? I can see one guy on the roof there. Marcello, I'm listening. Do we have to bomb both targets? Yes, both. Have you cleared your target? Not yet, we're about to do it. Okay, Marcello, Can you repeat, comrade? Wait for us to get in touch with you, All right. Good luck. What do you think? I think it's shit. It's not a good building, I persist. The fucking airstrike everything, man. You remember the tall house we took? With the roof that was shit? Yes. They told us if we're not tired, we can go there, rest until tomorrow eight o'clock. Then we enter our daytime op. What sort of day time op? What are we talking about, like pushing? Yes, pushing. We can leave Guevara, What do you guys say? What time is it now? -3:00. -Arian? -You have the aerial sight with you? We're ready guys, We're staying at Dayton. All right. We rest, tomorrow eight in the morning, Guevara, we need another one, actually, -Guevara, are you okay with that? All right. I come from Scotland. I was in the British Army for five years. I want to make a difference, I want so I thought because of what and my medical skills, They don't make anything here. I get free cigarettes, but I don't smoke. I think we'll have two hours sleep. I noticed back home everyone this and that about ISIS. Nobody actually ever did anything. I first thought who wanted to fight against ISIS. I didn't realize I had no idea about it, I really respected them because they didn't have Should I die, what matters most Because they are the two They know that I am here, I am very much into non violence, prevention of violence I grew up in Central America. My mother works precisely in that field, So to me, taking up I hate this weapon fetishism. Those who take up weapons Like, &quot;Oh, look at that M16!&quot; I found myself whose opinions but all share some respect. They deeply respect the armed struggle, So, to me, This battalion is mixed, and I kept it mixed for a reason. Half of the comrades here are actually socialists, We have a lot of discussions Nobody's getting out Everybody is growing politically. Why we have the big crisis now You know why? Before Italy we had like Enormously good, okay? Like amazingly good. It was mostly talking about working class. Talking about people who are poor, Now they're trying They talk about like rich people. The main culture of Germany It's still held by the US in general. Now, it's becoming more multipolar, because you have Bollywood In Africa, you have Nollywood, Bollywood, let's be serious. Everybody knows The rich guy is beautiful, He has a good suit, he has a good car. That's the main message It's a capitalist one. Then you have Daesh propaganda. They're trying to destroy All of a sudden the message who is enjoying his richness, who is leaving his drama or whatever, bullshit. All of a sudden You're building an identity on a reaction and I think that's pretty poor. You cannot be a reaction or answer You're not the target I am, for example, I'm half Moroccan, In a way through the propaganda they make, One of the main reasons and now it's almost gone, is because we don't talk We don't talk anymore to the real people, to the main people. For example, have you seen Soykuba? The movie talks about the revolution, but God dammit, but it's another level. The narrative, the acting, the traveling, everything. That's why I believe in that. For me, I'm against everything because for me, it's useless. I don't need to speak with people That's what we do as socialists. Around the world as artists, we speak with people and we keep speaking to each other and the rest of the world is going on Then we wonder how the fuck How the fuck did that happen? I mean this artistic thing is great. Why does nobody appreciate it? Nobody appreciated it, because you didn't give You didn't build for them You went on your own. No, they don't have the instrument I want to speak to the people. I come from a working-class background. My mother still works It is really very humiliating work. I grew up watching her breaking her back When I was in middle school until I felt like getting in touch with socialist books first, I started to realize I started to understand How the capital system works, How school works. That's how I grew up. I was lucky, because it could've been different. I could have kept that anger. I could have had directed but with ideas that oppress even more, which is the jihadi mentality. Jihadi mentality is a form of rebellion. When the main propaganda, portrays you in a negative way, you go around looking for a positive way That's what Daesh offers. Of course, it's a life full of danger, but that's the main message. They're literally using the weaknesses We created those outcasts. There's a massive fire there, Holy shit! I think they hit fuel or shit like that. How you're supposed It's burning now, I can't see shit. Do I think these Daesh Oh my God. I think they're shooting straight Have you got eyes on that way? No, I just see the place Daesh have seen us making the holes. I don't think so they're trying to use mortars or some sort of artillery It'll probably be like this all night. Sitting in this cell Bored. Everyone wants to be asleep -Hello? Yes. A little bit off. Hello! The fucking staircase is gone. -Incredible. The last five minutes The guys downstairs are probably [Arabic spoken audio] Come. Comrade! Faster! Yes, he's still breathing. Wadir? Wadir? Wadir! [Arabic spoken audio] After that, we were doing that operation, resulting from a stupid mistake Shot with an RPG. Grievous, horrible injuries. For two hours, but at the end, he expired. Sometimes you have this slight moment it's going to happen to me. That the only way out is by getting injured or dying. But you just have to push that Basically, when I go back to Europe, I expect to reconnect with my family with my former bosses. I expect to go back to my farming job at least for some time, There's a sniper. Oh shit. They're shooting from down. Down? Like from close, Really? Anything? I've been crying for two days. We slept under building My cousin is dead, Please, just pray for us, ISIS wanted us to be scared of you. After the bombings, my uncle died. He had come to try and save us. We were hit twice. We all thought we were going to die. But thank God, we made it here. There are still a lot You can smell it. There's a ton of flies. Probably the ones five minutes ago, Is it the place where they crushed I don't know. I'm not sure, I remember when Daesh shot that video back in the day, where they were showing You can see the Ferris wheel over there, Look at this place now. Why do you do this? You're destroying your masterpiece. These were individual cells Someone scratched Spent a long time here. One, two, three, four, five, six. Also found this for the prisoners. It's for eyes. I assume the people who were here I think that's written in blood. Blood, yes, that's what I was thinking. -Thank you. Man, I miss home. Miss it a lot. At the same time, I know going back, You can feel it already. You take part in a war, all that mundane bullshit goes away. The mundane bullshit where you make your small problems You make them into some huge monster. Here it's just, you don't care about that. Life is very simple. It's going to be difficult Today, Haval Chiar, Haval Chiar, if you have anything I don't know. Thank you, guys, I learned a lot from you, Here, there, and really take care. I would like to say but I still don't feel like it. I don't know. I will have to see how it goes for me, It's going to be uncomfortable knowing that you are here, and me on the other side. Anyway, take care, thank you. I'm not going to say. Can I hug or is it unmilitary? I want to hug. -Is it okay, sorry, man. The revolution here is complicated, When you come, but then you realize I don't want to say that's it, it's over. That's behind, I did my share of fighting, No, I cannot accept this. We'll do a big festival. We'll have one day in Derik. Okay, good. Also for the Kobani, Haresim told us it'll make our work so difficult. I agree with him. Yes, I agree with him too. I would prefer to do it It's so dangerous. We go for the next day Remember Ishkareshipir, Maybe I could go to Spain, To grow as a profession, and maybe come back with more options. I don't want to, I want to grow with them, to overcome all the hurdles all together. Everybody thought great, Then when he gets branded because I can't have That was what I was worried about, and people heard the word terrorist Your sisters were calling him daily, because they're like, Your sisters were, -Talons were out. I just got mad at you. -He wasn't happy. I wanted to punch you so bad. -Yes, he wasn't very happy. I was man, I was like I've got enough stress at work, He covered his grief with anger. I did, I took all my grief and I just threw it in a pot but I love you. You feel proud of what you've done? Yes. I mean the United States that you guys I'm not sitting there, I didn't really go over I didn't say you're a celebrity. I mean, not being a celebrity. Does it hurt that you didn't get I didn't go expecting to get recognized. I wasn't even sure We feel more pressure now being home I mean here there's no sense of mission. If there's a revolution going on, Here, it's like or whoever you're working for. When you toast the croissants, To one. Croissants burn very easily, For prosciutto, because if prosciutto is flat, I guess you could say There's nothing about being a regular working-class guy It's just dull. It certainly has changed me. I'd like to think that it built me upward. To be perfectly honest, that it is a possibility, now that I know, However, I also think that it's a darker side Being a war dog, going to fight in a conflict or I don't feel is absolutely necessary, then I wouldn't do it, no. Behind all this, there's Plato. Figure out a way that you can defend why you conduct yourself If you can defend that well, then you are on the right path, I think. I gave my life to help I've stopped terrorists I feel I've done quite a lot but my government's more interested It's heartbreaking. Sometimes when I tell my friends stories, they're like, you're just lying, I'm like, okay, it never happened. Within the group, It might not go down in history but we can pass that Some people will know and if it doesn't get told it doesn't matter After coming back home, The problem about psychological injuries is that I don't even know It's something that you have to work on. It's something that you will maybe That's what I believe. -I'm losing my mind here. I need to find a manual job. I'm sick of sitting I spent a year sleeping under the stars. Beautiful! Then I come back home, and bam! You sank. My wife told me about it. When I saw you, you looked good. I looked like a cave bear. I looked like a cave bear in hibernation. I come back home with heavy agenda of racism This is very sad. I will fight it. Fighting against the mafia, Because there cannot be any justice -Bravo! As long as there are peaceful means I believe it should be pursued that way, I'll be in sit-ins I will not feel one bit ashamed of that, because maybe before or I was a commander I'll keep struggling. I'll be just part of a movement and I'll be content. And if I die as a partisan. Goodbye, beautiful! Goodbye, beautiful! And if I die as a partisan,