- [Chef] This episode is brought to you by itself. The &quot;Basics with Babish&quot; in your mailbox in less than two weeks. Get tickets now for my book tour. I'm stopping in New Jersey, Chicago, Toronto, DC, Los Head to bingeingwithbabish.com/book tour. (upbeat piano and drum music) All right, so for our we're gonna start by making a tangzhong, a cooked paste of flour and water that's gonna help our as well as delay the staling process. In a small sauce pan, we're of water with 30 grams of and whisking constantly over and scorching until it of frosting and reaches Then we're bringing this mixture over to our awaiting stand mixer and placing it in the And then we're adding 165 just a few splashes at a time while the mixer is running to The resultant tepid mixture should make for a nice environment Once you got a nice smooth mixture we're gonna add 450 grams of of granulated sugar, two and one packet or two and a quarter teaspoons of instant yeast. We're also gonna add two eggs, you might wanna crack into a bowl first. If you drop a little piece you might nuke your whole batch. Beat up those eggs a little Affix dough hooks and to start speeding up to medium and kneading for about two minutes. If things are looking a little now's a good time to add flour Once you have a dough that of the bowl, we're gonna add 70 grams of unsalted room temperature at a time, waiting until each into the dough before adding the next. This brioche-like process a brioche-like buttery richness. Once all the butter's been added on medium speed for about six minutes. This stand mixer is so I'm gonna put it on the floor. Let it knead until it forms Place it back on the and the audience will The dough should be quite You should be able to pull it down off the hook without all of Now it needs to proof. So I'm bowl scraping it into covering it up and letting it rest for one to two hours until If it's a little chilly in your kitchen you can proof in the oven. Just turn on the oven and let it reach a balmy, Check on it every 15 minutes or so because those oven lights Once our dough has been or non-stick spraying our our big bouncy, jiggly, I have a feeling this is Oh yeah. Somehow as delicious Now with well-oiled we're gonna roll it out by 20 inches with the because counterintuitively that's the direction First, we're buttering things unsalted and at room temperature But if it's not spreading feel free to channel Jamie Lee Curtis from that one episode of &quot;The Bear&quot; and just spread the butter Probably not the most but it works really, really well. Plus, you get to go around your to all of its occupants that Now the butter's obviously but it's also gonna act as a A simple and elegant of granulated sugar, 50 and one and a half tablespoons I'm sprinkling this evenly of a fine mesh sieve holding This both helps to spread it evenly and filters out any brown sugar chunks. And now from the bottom edge upward we're gonna start Sort of go back and if you have any idea what one of those is. Roll it up evenly and gently over seam side down and it's First, we're gonna slice off the ends so we have nice clean You can bake these up separately And now we're gonna eyeball Doing this by placing a Then another marker halfway and then two markers between those. If you want more professional results as it is so often said, use a ruler. Now we're gonna slice in our prepared pan, Standard issue nine by 13 casserole, generously sprayed down and lined with a sheet of parchment paper that's gonna help us extract I'm placing a harsh crease in the paper right on the edge of the pan and then slicing and arranging my rolls in the pan in a grid Now, if you rolled out and twisted it up tight of room between the rolls, because they're gonna grow dramatically during the second rise. All we gotta do is cover them up with some well-oiled plastic wrap. And if you want to eat these the same day you can let them rise or you can cover them and place them in the fridge overnight. This has the added benefits of an improved flavor and and serve these suckers Soon as you wake up, take which is a new name I just Let them sit out for an until they've grown by about 50%. Sorry for not wearing an apron. I know that that's off-putting, but it is genuinely morning We got a preheated 375 where these guys are rotating halfway through. This is the perfect time to Into the bowl of our of powdered sugar, 80 grams of butter at room temperature, 115 grams or half a block of cream and a half teaspoon of kosher salt. Grab your wire whip and until they are smooth and creamy. Then we're gonna stop and scrape and the whip real quick and this time adding one to two You can add more or less but we want this frosting so that it drapes over the of which it's been 25 minutes. The thickest part of our to 200 degrees Fahrenheit in the pan for 10 minutes. Then we're carefully pulling them out by virtue of our parchment paper helper and immediately spreading Wanna do this while so the frosting drips into the buns slightly to show And there you have it. Homemade hot, fresh, Maybe one of my favorite recipes on earth and a great way to get some use But lest we forget the These rolls are a flexible form factor for fun fillings and frostings. So how about some Same dough recipe, but this and cinnamon sugar, we're with Nutella leaving a one It's gonna help us seal the rolls shut and prevent things from Attempt and fail to resist Roll things up tight and then it's pretty much The only notable difference being that you're gonna wanna with a wet kitchen towel If you've got excess it's gonna smear across the top of each roll and ruin your aesthetic. Arrange, proof for one to one and a half hours and bake as before. Now I figured the best place to introduce the strawberry And I'm gonna do this with one ounce of freeze dried strawberries, in a food processor into that I can work into the frosting. Strawberry smoke. Don't breathe this. To make the frosting it's pretty much the but this time we are of course adding the Now, not only are we adding to this mixture, it's powder that's specifically moisture absorbent so we're gonna need to cut it I ended up adding about half cup. Ideally, we're trying to as our regular cream cheese over the rolls without looking too gloopy. Now with that done, our rolls Probably the best looking The cleaner and flatter your cuts, the more consistent results Let them cool for 10 and frost as before. Now, I guess I was a bit of because things didn't melt as the last batch. But flavor-wise, these It's everything you love about with the welcome edition Last but not least, it's that for pumpkin spice everything, To make our pumpkin spice, of light brown sugar, 80 one tablespoon ground cinnamon, half teaspoon ground cardamom, quarter teaspoon kosher salt, and half a teaspoon of I dunno why this is called pumpkin spice. Could be anything spice, really. Apple pie, apple cider Then once we've rolled out our dough, instead of using butter as our spice glue, why not use pumpkin puree? About 250 grams worth are just enough to apply a thin pastiche spread it on, spice it down and Roll, slice, arrange, After proofing, however, I forgot to do with the That is brush them down I don't think this would because it would smear But for pumpkin or cinnamon, Bake those off and while we can contend with our frosting. And if these are gonna be pumpkin then they should probably So adding one teaspoon of instant coffee to our two tablespoons until dissolved and adding And as it turns out, coffee really, really good. So let's see how it plays with pumpkin, a combination I've never Now as you can see, my rolls are a little all over the place. I think I cut them sloppily and they rose a little bit too much But with a little bit of cooling and a whole lot of frosting, And to my surprise and delight, The pumpkin's really subtle and it doesn't taste And the spices work surprisingly So add me to the pumpkin Just a reminder, my new cookbook &quot;Basics with Babish&quot; is This recipe and over a in mouthwatering detail of humor, honesty, and vulnerability. Pre-order now and be sure to grab tickets to my book tour at (lofi music)