- [Johnny] Along the banks of on earth sits the country of Yemen, a place that was two countries for decades until the year 1990, when it was unified into one. A fragile patchwork of groups all with different tribal and political aspirations. The story I want to when one group forms up in the It's started by a group who call themselves the Believing Youth, who were members of a Shiite Zaidi Muslims used to be the majority when the country was split in two. But in the new unified Yemen, they became a minority and felt neglected and discriminated against. At first, the group focuses on rebuilding the Zaidi hosting summer camps for young men and offering religious education. But in the late 1990s, the group starts to A member of Yemen's and joins the Believing Youth. He felt that the government and far too influenced by Yemen's neighbor to the north, Saudi Arabia. Al Houthi blamed outside influence for many of the country's problems. So as he leaves the government, Al Houthi uses his wealth in the Zaidi community of the Believing Youth. He wants an Islamic revolution, modeled after the one in Iran. One that kicks out any foreign influence and restores Islamic values. - [Reporter] Outrage with - With Al Houthi's influence, this group of young men of Yemen starts to change. They begin protesting Yemen's Soon they start taking up and eventually setting up in their region. The Believing Youth are starting to look a lot less like a summer camp and a lot more like a President Saleh, who had previously supported is starting to get worried. And then in 2001, the entire Middle East After 9/11, the US (reflective music) They asked President Saleh for help, and he cooperates, taking military aid and allowing American Special Forces to operate inside Yemen, where the terrorist group 18 months later, the US presence in the region when the American military For Al Houthi and his group of young men, this crosses a red line and Al Houthi criticizes for pandering to what he in Muslim lands. And many in Yemen agree, joining the movement and Al Houthi adopts the violent slogan that sits on the flag of God is great. Death to America. Death to Israel. Curse on the Jews. Victory to Islam. President Saleh feels of this increasingly radical movement that is taking control of He issues an arrest warrant and brutally cracks In response, the Believing in the north of Yemen, leading to counterattacks Shortly after the fighting begins, Al Houthi is killed in The rebels he leaves behind and the world would know them a symbol of imperial resistance that would soon be and hijacking cargo ships in the Red Sea. (reflective music) This Yemen story is about I'm gonna pause for a second because I need to thank the The sponsors are how we're able to do our journalism here on YouTube. So thank you, Incogni, for I've been using Incogni and it has really changed my digital life. Most of us don't know our name, our date of birth, our address, our browser history, is a commodity. It is bought and sold on a data market where data brokers make our information to corporations that want to profit off of us. They have the right to do that, and yet we also have the right to request that our information be The problem is there's and they don't make it easy And that is why Incogni exists. You sign up for Incogni, and you give them permission To go request that your of these lists. And it's not like there's like five lists. There are, in my case, Incogni found, like, hundreds Incogni shows you the lists that they found your information on, and then they start the process of taking your information off. And you get to watch while Month after month, Incogni is working for and my data safe, which So that's Incogni. I'm I'm really glad they've because I started using their service, and I am very happy with it. So there's a link in my description. It is incogni.com/johnnyharris. Click the link. It helps And use the code JOHNNYHARRIS, and you will get 60% off Use that code so they know That is very helpful to me. So yeah, you can try it and see if Incogni helps while also reducing and robocalls that you get. Thank you, Incogni, for With that, let's dive back into Yemen. By 2004, the Houthis have morphed into a full-blown rebellion, fighting against Yemen's government from their northern strongholds. They know this land well and they have local support, allowing them to fight against the government forces, blending in with civilians, and allowing them to resist the much better equipped Yemeni army. As the conflict turns more violent, more tribes in the region would feel that the military is being overly brutal, leading them to join the Houthis. And it's at this time that the The Houthis say that Saudi Arabia is letting the government of across this border. So they invade into Saudi Arabia, killing Saudi soldiers This pulls Saudi Arabia into the conflict, as they respond with airstrikes and troops and push the Houthis punishing them for this invasion. Now, over here, Iran is watching this war, and they see an opportunity. The Houthis are now fighting directly against their biggest rival, Saudi Arabia. So they start secretly sending At least that's what Saudi Arabia claims, saying that they intercepted with weapons and military trainers on their way to the Houthis. It looks like Iran is directly Though how much support they provide behind the scenes will always As the conflict between the Houthis and the government continues in the north, Saudi Arabia has been fighting against a branch of Al-Qaeda Seeing that their days are numbered, this branch of Al-Qaeda flees south over the border into Yemen, with the Yemen branch of Al-Qaeda. They create Al-Qaeda in the one of the most dangerous of the group to ever exist. The group's goal is to across the whole region, while violently waging holy war against foreigners in Muslim lands. (reflective music) This puts them at odds with and the Houthis. The conflict is getting more complicated. Around 2011, the region In one country after another, there's an outpouring of demanding change from their government, removing old leaders. This is called the Arab Spring. It's upheaval that spirals the (protesters shouting in foreign language) - [Johnny] Iran and Saudi Arabia to strategically choose sides in hopes that when the dust settles, they will come out with in the region. And one of their main focuses is Yemen, a country that is also rising up, calling for President Saleh to step down. The corrupt dictator of which is something the for for years. But Saleh refuses to step down, Saudi Arabia sees this situation and decides to step in convincing Saleh to transfer in exchange for immunity from prosecution. On his way out, Saleh takes that he corruptly amassed and he also retains the of the military, fighters But the people aren't satisfied with this new Saudi-backed president. The government remains Meanwhile, the Houthis of this infighting and taking more and more adding to their forces, and receiving more support who is supplying them with drones, and other advanced weapons. They use these weapons in the fall of 2014 to march into southern Yemen, taking over large swaths of territory. (reflective music) Now that the Houthis have momentum, the former President Saleh joins them in an alliance of convenience. In fact, Saleh's forces are critical in helping the Houthis take Saleh is now working against his own vice president, the man he had to give power President Hadi and his as the Houthis take over, but the Houthis are right behind them. So Hadi has to flee to Saudi Arabia, trying to govern Yemen from there. But the Houthis just By the middle of 2015, they now control the where they create their own government and take control of the helping them expand even Now that the Houthis are in power, they run an oppressive regime crushes dissent through and recruits children as soldiers, all while imposing strict religious laws that undermine women's rights. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia Their southern neighbor is now controlled by a group that is funded So they recruit the support of countries around the region and invade Yemen, with the goal of removing The war is led by Crown Saudi Arabia's up-and-coming He starts with a and a naval blockade in and out of the country, with the goal of trying in from Iran. The crown prince turns in need of more weapons for this war. While the US leaders are in another Middle East conflict, they also want to maintain with Saudi Arabia, who and energy partner in the region. They also have an interest in weakening Al-Qaeda's So in addition to supporting this war with logistics and intelligence, President Obama approves planes, tanks, and even weapons banned by most of the world for for civilians, like cluster munitions. (tense music) This quickly turns Saudi Arabia of American weapons for So it's 2015, and Yemen is in a full-blown and Saudi Arabia and their coalition. This is when Al-Qaeda, takes advantage of this chaos and makes a land grab They take major cities and Also taking advantage of the instability is the terrorist group ISIS, who come to Yemen and fight at the same time. Though their attacks are scattered, and they don't control The US then gets more involved at Al-Qaeda and ISIS targets to stop them from gaining any more territory. They tried to kill their leadership. But the US has to do this carefully because they don't want Their fight is with Al-Qaeda and ISIS. In May of 2015, the Houthis attack a city in Saudi Arabia, killing forcing an airport to shut down. The crown prince doesn't on his own soil lightly, So over the next 24 hours, the Saudis launch 130 airstrikes in Yemen, hitting homes, schools, and hospitals. Thousands are forced to Hundreds are reported dead, though we'll never know These strikes are almost But the crown prince doesn't back down. His coalition then sends in pushing back the Houthis and He's behaving as if he's fighting It's a vicious cycle that is and it lands the people of Yemen in the worst humanitarian The international community with diplomatic efforts But over the next six years, and Saudi Arabia would all using American weapons. The Houthis continue to fight, to show that they are legitimate, that they are the government of Yemen. They aren't just doing Iran's bidding. (somber music) The war continues to and the blockade continues The Saudis continue to And with time, 2 million forced to leave their homes - [Reporter] 150,000 - [Johnny] But this from escalating their offensive. They start attacking Saudi and drones in their capital city and their civilian airports, using weapons that most (tense music) In December of 2017, the Saudis and the UAE to break his alliance with the Houthis and return to power as president of Yemen. They hope that Saleh, the former dictator, might be able to hold onto Saleh takes the deal and breaking with the Houthis and joining the Saudi-led coalition. (reflective music) Fighting breaks out between the Houthis and Saleh's militias, and Saleh is killed just two days later. (reflective music) Meanwhile, in the United President Trump orders and raids against Al-Qaeda, helping government forces of territory. Despite the war crimes committed Trump approves more weapons to wage this war. And then in 2018, the conflict The UAE, who's a part of is starting to lose faith in the direction this war is going. They don't like the current and they're losing soldiers on the ground. It's damaging their So the UAE leaves the coalition. But they still want to influence who will ultimately control Yemen, so they start backing a new group in the south called the or STC. This group isn't aligned with They're calling for a separation of the southern part of Yemen. They want their own state. So the UAE starts to withdraw their troops from the south of the country, and the STC separatists of southern provinces. The Saudi coalition is fracturing, and yet another group is showing just how up for By the fall of 2019, the war You've got the Saudi coalition backing the former government of Yemen, mostly relegated to the The UAE is now backing in the south, who are fighting against the former government of Yemen. The Houthis backed by Iran of the major cities in the north. Al-Qaeda and its militia to control small slices of the country. And the US continues to conduct airstrikes against Al-Qaeda and ISIS, while supporting and selling more weapons to the Saudi coalition. Yemen is fracturing further, and if there's any hope for peace, power needs to be consolidated. So Saudi Arabia and the UAE make amends, and then, together, they and the separatists in the to fight against the Houthis But it doesn't stop the Houthis, who are getting really good at fighting and are firing more Iranian missiles and drones into Saudi Arabia, hitting state-owned oil refineries and threatening to drive By January 2021, the Houthis, a group started to provide to young men, are now battle hardened, and they control 70 to 80% Later that year, the UN announces that of those people are dependent on humanitarian aid for their daily needs. And at this point, the to an uncomfortable stalemate. (somber music) In April 2022, the UN brokers a ceasefire, and the fighting stops. Behind the scenes, Saudi Arabia and Iran have sponsored by China. Regional tensions are cooling, which means that their proxy Saudi Arabia has had President Hadi resigns to a council meant to govern And both sides are tired of the fighting. So when that ceasefire is set the conflict mostly stays quiet, even without a new agreement. By 2023, Saudi Arabia and their diplomatic relations. Saudi Arabia hoping that this means Iran will to attack their southern border. (somber music) But the Saudis keep around the country, making life in Yemen But at this point, the heaviest of the fighting But then in the fall of 2023, the Houthis were back in the news. After the Palestinian group into Israel, the Israeli vowing to destroy Hamas that they took. The campaign leads to tens of thousands of Palestinian civilian deaths, and it provokes a response from Iranian-backed groups The Houthis are one of those groups. They launch drones and cruise vowing that their attacks won't stop until the invasion of Gaza stops. And then they start firing their missiles and drones at cargo through the Red Sea, where 25% of container traffic travels, a major artery in our global economy. In the days after these traffic through this Red In response, the US and UK and drop bombs on Houthi pulling the US and its allies deeper into this enduring conflict. (reflective music) The reason I wanted to tell you the story of this conflict in Yemen. Because it represents in a lot of proxy wars, where geopolitical rivals as battlefields instead of They fund and add fuel to local conflicts, escalating them to the entire country, and often to the entire region, leaving violence and power which are then filled by bad actors trying to take advantage of the instability. All of this changes Borders, destroys cities, and ruins lives. It's the story of powerful countries and their cynical scramble for influence and power leaving behind them a wake of (somber music)