Hi, I'm Dave Cohen. I'm a Hi, I'm Nicole Woon, and I'm a program manager at Microsoft, and today we'll be talking and how you can use them. DAVE: So, today we're going to talk to you about what are SharePoint sites? What are the two different types of sites, team site and communication site? We'll go through a team site demo, and we'll also go through and then we'll show you some resources to help you get started. What are SharePoint sites? A SharePoint site is a site on that helps people and teams Essentially, it's a and only you and your unless you invite someone else. Sites are easy to create and edit, and they're flexible enough We have two types of sites a team site, or a communication site, and we'll talk through the A SharePoint team site to the content, information, They're designed to optimize for team or project collaboration with Microsoft 365 group integration. A group in Microsoft that has access to a like a shared Outlook or in this case, a shared SharePoint site, and includes the option to so that if you and your colleagues you can still get all the benefits of your SharePoint team site there. A communication site, on the other hand, is a great place to share in a visually compelling format. They're optimized for a to communicate out to a wide audience, and they include some to help you get started and and it should be noted to a Microsoft 365 group, however, you can use a group to manage They just don't come like the shared inbox So, when would you use a team site versus a communication site? There are a couple of different and we'll start, we'll So, to start with, different scenarios. So, if you have a team of people that are collaborating together you would want to use a team site. On the other hand, if you that's authoring content to communicate out to a broader audience, then you'd want to use The default homepages A team site includes web and team activity, and updates, and a communication site's for really showcasing The navigation also Navigation on your team site is geared toward helping you get to the files and the lists that you work and the navigation on is really a blank slate to help you craft the navigation structure that and help your viewers they're trying to get to. The lifecycle between the two sites is actually pretty similar. Both can be relatively You could have a team site or a communication site last for years, or last only a week, or for one event, and then they do differ in how Like we said earlier, a team site is connected and it can also be connected A communication site, on the other hand, is really a stand-alone site, and is not connected to any Let's walk through a when you would use one If you have a project we talked about that would be a team site, but if you're building an you would want to use If you have a holiday that's planning an annual get-together, you would want to create but if you're a team that's and guidelines for your colleagues, you probably want to make because that's communicating and if you have an extranet site where you're inviting someone to come and work with and documents, that would A place to look up policies and procedures are not a place that lots You'd probably want to And then lastly, this is a and why they would choose and then a communication If you work in Human and you need a site where are working together on the new policies for the upcoming year, or you would create a team site, so everyone had quick access and work together in real time, and then when you wanted to communicate those same policies out so everyone in your company could go and read them, you would create a communication So, let's talk through some of You have your pages, and news posts, and that includes your homepage. You have libraries, which is where your documents are stored, as well as your pages and your images, and then you have your lists. That's the content in your site. Striped across all of that content is the site's navigation, the and also the site permissions. Now, before we get into demos, let's talk a little bit about How do you get started? First, you create the site, You create pages, you you add files, you and you set up your navigation. You would then add permissions, and invite either your and add more content with you, or you would add your audience if your site was ready to be shared out, and then, finally, you would either by sending an email sending a Teams message to someone, or just letting them know and ready to look up. Now for the team site demo, NICOLE: Dave just walked of how you could use a team site. For this demo, I'm part of and I need a place for A team site can act as for you to accomplish tasks, and keep track of everything that you collaborate on with your team. I'll be taking you through and get started in a matter of seconds. There are many different but the easiest is from You can access it from two places, clicking SharePoint in if you're already on a SharePoint site, or by clicking the app launcher icon in the upper-left corner The SharePoint start and access sites across your organization. You can also discover news based on the sites that you're following, frequently-visited sites, and content that's recommended If self-service site creation has been enabled by your admin, you'll see the option to create a new site in the upper-left corner. Now I can choose the type of I'm creating a team site, since I'd like to have a place and jointly create and edit content. I'll first type in my In creating a team site this way, you see that it also creates an equivalent group email address. This is a connected Microsoft 365 group. Having the shared alias a collection of resources such as an Outlook inbox and calendar, planner, and OneNote. There's no need to manually assign permissions for each app, as you're all members of the The rest of the information so I'll click Next, and I now see an option to add additional owners and members. There are multiple people that but for now, I'll just add one co-owner. With that, I'll click Finish, and in a matter of seconds, we're already on our You can see that it's already which are the building blocks The web parts that already are News, Activity, Quick Some of them even have cues Another way to see tips for is by clicking on the Next steps panel in the upper-right corner. Here, you can see suggested actions, like uploading files, posting news, and adding Microsoft Teams. These all lead to a healthier For our first action on the site, let's start with uploading a file. You can simply drag-and-drop or choose to click Upload I'll be uploading a Word document. To see a fuller view of I can do it in a couple of different ways. The first is by clicking See all in the Documents web part. I can also click on the Documents link in my left-hand navigation, and I can also get to it The Site contents page has a list of all of the document libraries, pages, lists, and apps on your site. Speaking of lists, I'd to track ownership and tasks for our upcoming business meeting series. I can easily do so by clicking Now we have an option to from an existing list, or from Excel. I'll choose to create my list so that I can retain the columns, views, and formatting that So, first I'll choose I'll name my list. I'll also leave Show in so I have it appear in and then I'll go ahead and choose from the Holiday Party Planning Committee, so that I can have that You can see that once it already has a few columns populated: Title, Owner, and Completed. Adding additional columns is easy to do by clicking Add column. You'll see a choice of various and for this example, and I'll go ahead and type in the name and the choices that I want. Once I'm done, I'll click Save, and we see it immediately Now I can add entries in two ways. The first way is by clicking New, and by adding information The other option is by to add new entries. Great, now that I'm done, and we can see all those Now that I have content I'd like to edit my homepage so that my team can easily I'll click on Home to You can also get back to the homepage by clicking on the site icon Now, to edit my homepage, I'll go ahead and click Edit and now we can see that I can edit, add, or delete web parts here. You'll notice that there are a few more buttons in this mode when you move your cursor over First I'll add the list that we just worked on as a web I can do so by hovering over the section that I want to add the web part to, and clicking the plus button. This opens what we call the toolbox. I can go into an expanded for the web part that I'm looking for. Great, next I want to so that we can track sign-ups for the upcoming business meeting series. Once I've added it to my page, we can now see that I have an option for new or add an existing. I'll go ahead and create When I click Create, this automatically opens and this way I can quickly add questions and build out my form. I'll go ahead and choose that are automatically recommended from Microsoft Forms templates. When I go back to my SharePoint page, I can now see that it is with Form web's address, and it is collecting responses by default. When I click OK, those questions immediately The last edit that I want is to move some of my web parts around. First, I'll take the and shift this up here, and then I'll move the News web part over to the smaller section. Think things look good to and now these changes are available to anyone else who comes to my site. There were a few other so I'll click where it says the number of members in When I add a member here, they're added to the that I mentioned earlier. Now that I've set up the site, I want to connect it to Microsoft Teams, which you'll sometimes hear as Teamify. You can do so by clicking on or from the Next steps panel. From here, I'll click Continue, and I now see an option to from this site as Teams tabs, including documents, and the I'll leave those both checked, as I want them to be included in Teams, and I'll click Add Teams. Now let's take a look in Teams to see what this experience is like. You can see that my Alpha 1 Team is automatically populated in the app with a General default channel. You can take advantage of all of Microsoft Teams' functionality, and access all the content I We can see it's already First we have Posts, which and meetings with my Next, we have the Files tab. For each channel that I it will auto-create a folder that's stored in my site's To show you how that works, and we'll circle back to it shortly. Next is the Wiki tab, which is a smart text editor notes and draft content. And finally, we have the Site tab, which we decided to pin when Teamifying. We can see that it's the homepage that we just built in SharePoint. I can interact with the web parts here just as easily as I can Also, remember how I uploaded a file to the Teams File tab? We can see in the that there's a new folder named General. If I click into it, I see the You've just seen how to create populate it with information, Team sites make it easy for and create with our I'll hand it over to Dave to walk us through a communication site. DAVE: In this next example, we'll walk through a person creating a site on their intranet to help onboard new A communication site is a because this scenario is typically a small number of authors creating content to be viewed by large audience, and this site template is designed with those scenarios in mind. Remember, most what I'm can also be done on a team site. We'll start on a site we already created and added some web parts to, The first thing I want to to the top of the site we have new interns coming in a few weeks. I'll put the page in edit mode, and then in this left-hand bar, add a new full-width section The full-width section is special in that there are a to leverage this extra width. The Countdown Timer is After adding this part, I'll set the date the and edit the text of the web part. I'll also add a call-to-action button, and then I'm going to For this demo, I'm going from the set of stock images That looks great. Moving down the page, I have a set of links on the right that I've already filled out, but the style isn't quite what I want. Editing that part, I'll change and then I'll choose have the buttons be in the same theme color of the site by selecting Fill color Next, I have an image gallery on my page, and I've already added my images to it, but the layout isn't quite what I want, so I'll change the and I also want to make stand out a little bit more, so I'll click on this left bar again, and I'll change the Section and you can see this change reflected on the page immediately. Moving down my page a little more, I have a Twitter web part, so the people that view this page can see the official Twitter and to the right of it, I want to add a Yammer web part, and hook it up to our So, the conversation source and all I have to do is that I want to connect it to, and our community shows right up. From this web part, our newest employees can engage immediately with or go to Yammer to explore others. Now this whole page is and we only made a few small tweaks. I want to make just a couple look just the way I want. The changes that we made were but the next changes I want the header, and the To start, I'll go to the gear icon in the top bar, and click Change the look. The first thing I'm going to do is change the theme color to teal. Going back into Change the look, the next thing I want to change and I want to make it a little smaller. I'll click Header, and Now, I've already added to the site header, but so I'll click the Edit and you can see the open up on the left. Just like adding a web part, I click on the plus icon to a add navigation and I'll paste in the address Now I'll republish my page, so that people who visit Our site is almost ready. Next, I want to add a so that our audience can see the latest updates from the team. To do that, I'll click the Add and choose News post. I'm then given the option or to choose some templates to help me get started. I can even see a preview of these templates before choosing one. I'll choose the Basic text Now, I've already written so I'll quickly Next, I'll update the title image, and choose a photo from This looks good. I can click-and-drag this and it also determines is kept in focus on smaller screens. Finally, I'll delete the parts of the template I don't Back on my homepage, my so I'll click the gear at the top, and click Site permissions. First, I'll click Share site, Everyone except external users. This allows everyone in my organization except external users to You can also see the permission that I'm giving this group so that they can read but they can't change, I do have the option to send an email right from here to my audience, but because this site is I'll elect not to do that this time. Our site is now ready for our viewers, and now let's switch over to show you what the experience will look like for people who are viewing the site on a phone. From the home links pinned to the app, I see my frequent sites, recent files, and I have the ability to search for anything I'm looking for. I see my Onboarding site As you can see, the site to the size of the phone, In the drawer in the upper left, I see the navigation and scrolling down the page, I even see the news post Going into that news post, I can read it, and I can even add a comment to it, right here from my phone. Now that wraps up our and I'll hand it back to Nicole. We'd now like to share First, to see examples of that you can easily build yourself, check out our look book and get inspired with the To learn more about the between team sites and visit our docs.microsoft.com article. To view additional visit aka.ms/VirtualHub. You'll have the ability and search for other content And finally, got an idea for Share it with us on UserVoice, and gather support for your suggestion or vote for other people's ideas. Thanks again for joining us.