These 100 subscribers have one hour whoever has the best build, Oh, this could be a PC. - Is this like a gaming room? I'm trying to build that. The fact that I could tell what it was This guy is ridiculous, Dude. This guy's the fastest builder alive. I'm building a trip around Wait, what on earth is this person doing? Are you nervous about this - No, I think it's going to win. Things are shaping up. Well, this person wants you to buy This is not a MrBeast video. Dude, look at this. They built out a whole house. Someone built Karl at his desk. Got a little cross eye going on. It seems that people want Wait, this is ridiculous. You guys like it? - Yeah. You have 30 minutes left, This pizza parlor is looking nice. Dude, what is this, man? Look, this is a dog, okay? That's a dog? It's like a golden retriever puppy. Dude. Oh, my God. With 10 minutes left. These buildings are coming together. Last minute things. This is sick. Yes, It's a sailboat. If you want any chance of winning this, Dizzy. Dude, it's coming down to the wire. You literally have, like, 2 minutes I got it. Why is the white ball in the inside? It's supposed to be on the outside. He's right, he's right, he's right. Oh my God, Laura Finish this roof. There's no way I can finish this, Chandler, help her! Hurry! - All right, time is up. No. Me, Chandler and rate everybody's building. Whoever's building gets the best Hello! You want a cybertruck? - Yeah. Oh, and check it out, guys, What do you guys think - I'm going to give it a four, man. Only because I appreciate I'm also going to give it a five. That means it has 14 points. and since it's the first thing we - NiKIUP. What is this supposed to be? So this is a creation of my college. Show us around, would you? Follow me guys. Look at the pool cues in the pool table. That's actually cool. This is actually sick. Wait, I'm going to give this a six. I like that He literally even has a soccer field The soccer field made it a six. I'm going to give this a six Currently in the lead is Nikikup. Wait, this guy literally just made Is that what I look like? So if you win, I get you a sailboat? Yeah. I love sailing. Sounds good. Congratulations. Also has an epic interior. Oh, okay. This might be the coolest one yet. I'm going to give this a 7.5. No way. I was going to give this in 7.8. Since there are books in the bookshelves Oh, that means this one's currently You want an entire game set up Yes. I even made a inside of the PC. Well, that's actually kind of cool. I like this Minecraft thing, I'm going to go eight. I'm going to give it a seven. I'm going to give it a 7.5. This is an awesome build. But what am I supposed Oh, it's like an old camera. And it even has a generator He has all the buttons on the side. This is like a really heavy duty Look at the inside. You can see the light This is actually a really well I'm going to give it an eight he could have made this build cooler. It's just that I think maybe I'm going to give this an eight. I'm going to give this a 7.5. Dude, now this is currently - BoyJedi. So far, you're in the lead, through the builds, So good luck. It's an Apple vision pro. Oh, guys, look inside the goggles. It's like virtual reality. That's great. I think this is actually one of the I'm going to give it an eight. This is a solid 7.5 for me. I just voted 7.5 as well. It wasn't enough. - Hello. So tell me what you built and Okay, so this is the Eras Tour Stage. - Is this Taylor Swift? That doesn't even look like her. Okay. What was that? Okay, well, no, I get it. Yo, what's going on, dude? All right explain to us your build. I have a girlfriend, so I'd like to take her on a trip This is a cool build. I know there's so much detail It's crazy. He tried to highlight a bunch of different countries And the plane. Dude, look at the little wind That's kind of sick. I will say it's a little cluttered, but I mean, he did try to jam I'm not going to lie. I like the effort. I'm I'm going to go eight. Yeah, he's the first Minecraft player I'll give him an eight. But it's still not going to win. Avoma, what? I want you to buy me a plane and - Where are you going to crash it? Don't worry, so vote fairly. I just gave you a two. A two? I'll give it a three. Oh, I gave it a three. No, please, bro. Hey, man, Oh, my God. Yes. Okay, Wait. What is this? Whoa! Dude, this is the only one Oh, my gosh. They have a mini fridge in here Oh, my God. They have a gamer fridge. Thanks for having me. Dream room that I will made one day. This is me. Look, it's us. Chandler, you got big old eyebrows brother. I mean, they got it right. I'm going to give this an 8.5. This is the best gaming room Also, give it a 8.5. I'm going to give it an eight. Which officially puts Are there two pizza guys? Oh, wait, there are two pizzas. I want to thank him Oh, it's thick crust cheese pizza. Yeah, just like I asked. This one is for you. A margarita. I love margherita pizzas. Hey buddy. Your pizza sucks! Want to check out my build? Yeah. So basically, my PC that I have right So I have built the $10,000 Why is it all on the floor? Nah, it's not on the floor. This wooden thing is a table. Why is your chair on the table? And by the way, I want you guys I think that you're hilarious, but I just don't think build Why not? Eric, here's what I am going to do. I'm going to give you two, but I'm going to invite you That has nothing to do with building. All right, that's awesome, that's awesome. I'm giving it a zero. - Dude, what? Holy, this is beautiful. What is this build? It's a godlike PC, you know? So if you win, I get you a godlike PC. Yeah. I feel like if you actually had a PC growing inside of it, Yeah, I guess. But it looks cool. He built the entire time. He even has the plug right here, look. I like that it's clear what he wants, but then he also expanded on it Dude, I'm going to say it. This is about to be crazy. I'm giving this a 9.5. I was going to go nine. I'm going nine as well. Okay, That's far Dude, I just want to let you know you have a very impressive score. It's going to be pretty but we're down to You are my one and only. I love you, Emily. Are you trying to go to Japan I want to plan to do that So you're telling me if you won this Minecraft video, That's the plan. - Does Emily know about this? It's a little secret. Why are you keeping secrets Look, Emily, if you're watching this, But Fluffykillerf wants to marry you, okay? This is cool, but what the heck The ocean? Aquarium. If you were to win, I love fishing. And as you can see, And I would love a trip fishing All right, we're going to vote. Since he just wants a fishing trip of a fishing rod, I'm going to give it a five. I'm going to give it a five as well. It's not going to win, Okay, we're down to the final build. And honestly, This looks actually really nice. Dude, this is sick. So if you win, A PC. I like this character right here You got my comic up there. It's my favorite setup so far. I'm going to give this in eight. And one of the best full setups for sure. I'm going to give this a 7.5 Final vote is up to me. Is it going to finally beat out I'm going to give this an eight. Which means, hello? Hi. We're doing a big second place If you could just fly where I'm standing, is what I would've said, but you actually won the whole thing. - Yeah. We're going to get you for winning the entire build No way! Subscribe and we'll see you