- So guys, today's video is coming straight from the - We're having so much fun here so far, this is our dream vacation, But today's video is in your color. (exciting yelling) I'm really excited but also really nervous 'cause I didn't hae much I don't know the good hiding spots. But we got some really interesting spots. We got the pool, I'm sure We can hide in the I'm really excited. So basically, how the challenge works, we're gonna have four rounds and each round we're gonna be hiding inside a different color This is the Cup of Mysteries, we'll be choosing the color - Mwahahaha. - I'm really scared - Okay Karina, I'm obviously I mean, you won all the other give me a time to shine. - I'll think about it. All right, but first thing I gotta do, rock paper scissors who goes first. - [Both] Rock, paper, scissors, shoot! - Yay! - Come on. - Okay Karina, you're gonna go over there, put on some headphones, to hide in. - Alrighty, what it's gonna be? - What's it gonna be, what's it gonna be? - Please be blue! - Oh wait, you think I'm Why does this take? Blue, no! - [Karina] Where are you gonna hide? - I don't know, in the pool! - I think I'm gonna win - Okay Karina, we'll see about that. You have one minute to find me, so go over there and and I'm gonna win. - So guys, I'm gonna and I'm gonna hide behind this door so I can't see or hear anything. - Hopefully Ronald's because that would be super, super easy, not in the beach because that might take a long time to find him. Bye Ronald! I'll see you in your hiding spot! - Bye, and I'll see you So guys, I only have two minutes to hide and I have to find something because the pool, she's and I don't want her She only has one minute to find me, so I don't need that but I need a better one than the pool. Okay so let's look for one. Here, I'm in the bathroom, and we need to find something. Everything here is brown! Brown, brown, brown, brown. Okay there's nothing here. Okay run. Run. Anything in here? No, nothing in here. Okay. (nervous exclaiming) The only option's on but that's way too obvious so I need something else. I saw that I was like naw, that's green. Okay. One more minute left. Oh does that count as blue, no? Ah! Ah! Come on, I need something blue! Blue, blue. Blue, blue, blue. Blue! Ah! Guys, I have 40 seconds left. Where do I hide? I don't know where to hide! Okay guys, I think guys this So let's take the cloth, and let's hide. We have like five seconds left. Okay let's hide. It's really dirty, but Oh that smells disgusting. - So guys, Ronald's two minutes are up! Now it's time for me to I think it's gonna be super, super easy because there's only two that are blue. So I'm gonna find him Just watch me, okay? Ronald! - Where are you? Ronald's definitely not in the pool. Ronald, I know you're in the beach! I know it! Ronald, I expected you to be here. You're not there. - Oh no, she's coming back. (wind drowns out talking) - Ronald! I'm gonna find you! I'm gonna find you! - 30 seconds left. - Maybe outside here? Ronald's not there, all right, gotta go. Gotta go this way! He's gotta be in this room. Ronald? Ronald where are you? That closet. This closet. No, not in that room! Ronald, where are you? Ron, I'm gonna find you! (phone beeping) I lost to Ronald! No, Ronald! You were there! (Ronald laughing) No! - Oh I did it, I did it! Oh my goodness, I was panicking. I could hear you all the time! - I thought I was gonna find you! Guys, I can't believe I completely forgot - Mwahahaha. Karina, I knew if you or the beach, you had and you weren't even paying attention. - Well I guess you got that right, but you're not gonna 'cause I'm gonna win the next challenge and I'm gonna be like aw yeah, I win! And you're like oh, I know it. - Karina, ya wish. You're gonna get red and - No, I'm gonna get brown and (record screeching) to say that. (Ronald laughing) - Okay guys, round number two. Karina, pick ya color! - All right, what is it gonna be? I'm gonna pick this one. - My feet are hot, my feet are hot! - Please be brown! - What is it? - [Both] Yellow! - What, how am I supposed There's nothing yellow! - Well, there's more Okay Karina, I'm gonna and go behind the door. I'm gonna find you right away. You're just gonna be - [Karina] Oh no. - Adios, I will find her! - So guys, it's my turn to hide. I only have two minutes, I'm gonna hide because I There's nothing that's yellow. I mean the sand I guess? But I don't wanna hide in sand. All right, there's this yellow pot. Maybe I could side inside there? I don't think I'm gonna fit in there. Maybe behind this bean bag? No, I don't think I'm behind the bean bag. Maybe there's something inside the villa. Come on. There's nothing. There's a yellow pillow over there. I don't think that's gonna Come on, maybe here. This is kinda yellow. Maybe I could hide in this one. Oh I don't think I'll It's way too slim, I don't - You're fat. - Oh this one I could fit in! I could sit in this one. This one has some life jackets and robes, but I think I can fit in here. I can stand up. All right, close the door. All right I got a little light crack so you can still see my face. All right, so this is my hiding spot. I don't know if Ronald's gonna find me, but I think he's gonna find me. This is really obvious - Okay guys, two minutes has passed. That means I have one Karina, you're going down! (sneaky music) Yellow, yellow, yellow! Is she in there, no! Okay sand, sand. In there, no. Sand. Okay I don't see her. Okay. Yellow, where are you? These are slightly yellow. Ah! Karina! You're not in there, okay. Yellow. Yellow. Yellow! Oh my goodness! Where is yellow? This is brown. Karina! (phone beeping) Karina! Where are you? Outside? - I'm right here, Ronald! - No Karina, that's brown! - Well that's yellow. Oh my goodness Karina. Fine, I'll count it, I'll count it. But that's still not fair, come on. - Ronald, I won fair and square. - Okay well you're not gonna find me this next turn. It's one to one, time for round three. - So guys, I just won the second round, now it's time for me and the whole challenge. - Karina, ya wish. You're gonna get pink three times and I'm gonna find you right away. - Ronald, I don't think not even three times, 'cause in the cup, papers in there. - Okay let's see, but it's and hide in an epic hiding spot, so. - Oh, what is it gonna be? Please be green or something. - No, be brown. White! Is that even good? - Wait, I don't think that's good. - Is it? Okay we'll find out, okay. Time for me to go hide. Okay Karina, here are your headphones. I'm gonna hide in an epic spot and you're never gonna find me. - All right, let's see about that. Bye Ronald. I'm gonna find you! - Ya wish. Okay guys, let's go find I don't think there's Actually, nevermind. Oh, there's a chicken over there. But we have that thing, that white thing that we can just lay on. Do you think she'll come find us for that? I don't know. But I saw this earlier. The white rocks. And I think that's a So let's go hide in that. - [Man] A few moments later. - Do you think she's gonna find? No, actually let's not hide here. It's not completely white. She's gonna make the argument that it's not completely white. So let's go hide somewhere else. I think another spot over here is good. I don't think she knows about this spot. Is this place dirty? 'Cause if it is, I don't wanna be here. Okay that's white. Okay let's go deeper. Oh that smells disgusting. Okay. White thing right there. I don't really wanna go deeper in 'cause then it'll be really gross. Okay guys. I think I'm ready. - So guys, it's been two minutes. Now it's time to find him in one minute. I'm gonna do this. There's not very many All right Ronald, I'm gonna find yoU! Ronald? Okay. Ronald. White, curtains. Ronald? Maybe in here? There's curtains here. Ronald? Okay. Ron, behind there. Curtains, this thing! Come on. Oh I thought that was the Curtains. One, bed, no. Here, towels? Still here. Ronald, where could Ronald be? Where could he possibly be? I'm gonna check the beach! First the deck. No not there. Ronald? - Thank god I didn't lie I don't know what it's called. - Ronald's not here, we gotta go back! - When she comes back. (phone beeping) No Ronald, where are you? - [Ronald] Karina! - I was about to check that! No, I was gonna check that but I thought Ronald - Yay! Karina gets a strike! - So guys, this is the I'm super excited 'cause no So because of that, I think - Wait no, Karina, I'm I don't wanna make it harder for me. - Well Ronald, we have to do it because no one has won yet, - Okay fine, for the specialty. - I am gonna win, I am so excited, and get my trophy! Is there a trophy? There's the accomplishment of being won. (drop whistle sounding) - Okay so, let's pick my color. All right, there's one more piece of paper inside this cup, so I will take it. It's gonna be red, it's gonna be red! - Well the only thing is the flowers here. I don't think I could - Oh yes you can. - All right, let's unreel. - [Ronald] Red, red, red, red, red, red. - [Karina] Brown! Yes! - Karina, Karina, Karina. - Yes! You're never gonna find me. You're never ever ever ever gonna find me! - Karina, but you can't 'cause you said those were yellow. - Don't worry, I won't need to. So guys, I have the perfect spot in mind. So, I don't think I'll be 'cause you know, that's boring. But, I'm gonna hide over here. So, do you guys see that brown spot in the water over there? That's seaweed, but from So, I'm gonna hide inside the so Ronald will not be able to see me. I know, it's a perfect spot to hide. So guys, it took me literally Now I'm gonna go into the All right I gotta put my mask on. I think I'm ready! Wish me luck! (tropical music) - Guys, Karina is done hiding spot and guys, it's the last round. Wish me luck. If Karina wins this, she's gonna win the whole entire challenge, which is not fair, let's go. Okay. (video game springing) Brown, brown, brown. (ding) Trees, no, she's not behind the tree. In there, anything, no. Okay. Brown. Brown. Behind this? Okay, no. She said those were yellow, No she's not in there. I'm scared! Okay I don't think she's in here. But I think I know where she could be. (jaunty music) (phone beeping) Time's up! Is that her? Karina! Karina! Time's up! - No, Ronald, it's not. You didn't find me, I'm not Karina. I'm a bystander! - Karina, time's up, come on. Guys, Karina was in the water. She was in the brown spot. Apparently that counts. Karina, that's so unfair. - It's the best spot in the world. So guys, that means I win! - Why did I agree to winners take all? That's not even fair! - Good thing Ronald gave me the chance or else I would not win. I'm the winner, winner, chicken dinner. That means you have to - Karina, I'm gonna make you How 'bout that? - Ew, I don't want pineapple on pizza. - Well, you're gonna have to deal with it. - So guys, we hope you like the video. If you did, - [Both] Smash that like button and we'll see on time, good bye! - What was that? (upbeat music)