Jon Snow is a fantasy hero - he and fights to save the realm. As a bastard, and identity. And he struggles to do the The first three seasons of the Game of Thrones books. But in the later seasons, TV Jon TV Jon is a badass warrior who fights lots of cause he takes dumb risks. He's not good at Kit Harington says "Jon is not able to lie". TV want to be a king - he says "I never wanted it". is not a great warrior - he's more of a smart lies and has secret plans. And he doesn't just his desires for honour, revenge, love, and home. he wants it. He thinks "I have always wanted it". heart in conflict with itself". Book Jon his desires and his duty, forcing him to make that question what it means to be a hero. Jon often has no internal conflict. When his choices have no moral or emotional cost. nowhere. Like, Jon dies then comes back to life resurrection is barely mentioned again. Jon finds doesn't want the throne, or to be a Targaryen, as the prophesied hero who'll defeat the white while his sister saves the world. After seasons of In the books, Jon's resurrection will transform deeply connected with prophecy and magic that moral and emotional struggles explore the series' when Jon collides with Daenerys and Tyrion in the different ending to the show. So who is the real Jon Snow grew up at Winterfell with Lord Eddard Sansa, Arya, Bran, and Rickon. But Jon is bastard - Jon is not Catelyn's son, he's the anyone who Jon's mother is. Some say she was Lady truth is probably that Jon is really the son of Targaryen. Ned promised to protect Jon, so he revealed in the TV show anyway, and there are well. If Jon is Prince Rhaegar's son, then Jon everyone thinks he's Ned's bastard, born outside not the trueborn family name Stark. Bastards have distrusted. So Jon faces prejudice and exclusion. and raised his bastard in their home. So sometimes cruel, making Jon feel that he's not reasons - Catelyn wants to make sure that her that Jon could be a political rival - so Catelyn Jon even looks different to the Starks. In the hair and blue eyes like their mother Catelyn. like Ned. So Jon is the black sheep, who doesn't and she's also a misfit cause she's a rebellious hair and calls her "little sister". Robb is Jon's to young Rickon. Though Sansa is distant with So Jon loves the Starks, but because he's the In Book 1, Jon is a fourteen year old boy. and hot-headed. But he's empathetic and In Chapter 1, the Starks find five direwolf and the symbol of House Stark. Bran wants to five pups should belong to the five Stark kids. cause he's a bastard - Jon sacrifices his But then, Jon hears a noise that no one else apart from the others. It's an albino with white and Jon are both "different" and "apart" red eyes could be a hint of Jon's real father and wore Targaryen red. But it's strange how but we learn that Ghost is always silent, Ghost Maybe Jon was influenced by Bloodraven. was once a Targaryen bastard politician. Now he's gods and the weirwood trees - Bloodraven teaches Bloodraven manipulates events from afar, by giving skinchanger or warg magic. Ghost is connected to like the white and red weirwood trees - Jon Bloodraven also has white hair and a red eye. gods to make Jon hear a noise, to make him find mother south in the first place. Cause there wants to use him to fulfil prophecies to defeat how Jon is different to his siblings, but King Robert comes to Winterfell, but at the separate from the family. Jon feels he has next Stark lord, his siblings will marry great Jon has no inheritance, no home here. So he the Night's Watch. The Watch is an ancient Jon sees the Watch as his path to honour Benjen warns Jon that Watch men serve for and to "hold no lands" and "wear no crowns" - of that oath. Some fans think that Benjen knows Jon swears the Watch oath, he'd be giving up his when Rhaegar and Lyanna's relationship over Lyanna's death might be why Benjen joined Jon feels rejected - he can't join the Night's Jon and Arya watch Prince Joffrey and Robb to join in the training, but Jon's not allowed cause she's a girl. Jon says "Nothing is class and gender - it's unfair that Joffrey a prince and Jon's a bastard. Which is ironic, while Jon is secretly a prince. But the point and that drives him to make justice later on. So Ned agrees to send Jon to the Night's This chapter is from Catelyn's point of view, If Ned promised to protect Jon... why send will be safer if he swears the Watch oath be used in any dangerous political plots. Aemon So Jon is leaving Winterfell. He says goodbye she wishes Jon was in a coma instead of Bran. But Robb doesn't feel bad - again, Jon sacrifices Jon says goodbye to Arya, and gives her a sword in defiance of society's sexist rules. And think about each other often, hoping to reunite. Jon asks about his mother, and Ned promises he'll promise to Lyanna. But tragically, Jon and Jon dreams that his mother was beautiful and He worries that Ned did something shameful secretive? Jon is haunted by this painful mystery. And they're joined by more recruits for the Watch. forced to join the Watch as a punishment. Jon heroes - but Tyrion says it's a dumping ground while Jon is abandoned with the rejects. Tyrion - Jon has several emotional tantrums in the But then Jon cools down, and accepts that Tyrion hoped for. But growing up, becoming an adult, Tyrion tells Jon to be proud of his strength. And Jon asks Tyrion to help Bran. friendship, which could be Jon starts his new life at Castle Black, and but he's put into training, under the cruel as a mocking nickname. Jon easily beats cause Jon's had proper training - so the boys feeling sorry for himself, until the smith not the victim here - Jon may think his the son of a great lord. Most Watch recruits has. When Jon beats the other boys, he's being a and starts to show empathy. He makes friends to fight better. Though Alliser gets angry at stands up to Alliser, he makes a bitter, lasting 'cause in Robert's Rebellion, Alliser fought for Samwell Tarly arrives. Sam is fat, and scared, and Jon has sympathy for misfits, like Tyrion and Arya and threats, Jon convinces all the recruits to brings people together to protect the vulnerable. listens and tries to understand Sam. Jon looks Sam is smart and good with books. So Jon asks for that the world needs the unique talents of all vulnerable. The TV show doesn't include this bit. which makes him a more passive character. Book which gives him a reason to want power. the Watch. Jon wants to be a ranger, to patrol a servant for Commander Jeor Mormont. At first, steward. But Sam says Jeor will teach Jon to lead, puts aside his childish arrogance, Jon swears his Night's Watch oath at a weirwood to the gods of the Starks and the north. He and no crowns, to be the sword in the dark, the to guard the realms of men until his death. and underdogs. But it becomes Jon's family. one of them. The Night's Watch are his brothers. fights and childish horseplay - they're to come. Alliser says that in winter, these many will die. 'Cause "The cold winds Uncle Benjen is missing. He went beyond the Wall two of Benjen's men dead. Their bodies are pale, the Others, or white walkers, the legendary ice ago, in the Long Night, the walkers attacked with In the night, Ghost leads Jon to find that one now a wight, a zombie controlled by the white and kills it with fire. Jon's hand gets burned be burned, they're not all fireproof. And scarred burned hand - a constant reminder of was trying to kill Commander Jeor. Meanwhile, First Ranger. So the white walkers are targeting It's interesting that Ghost leads Jon to the leading Jon to face the white walkers. Jeor gives Jon a sword called Longclaw. Longclaw than a normal one-handed sword. And Longclaw is the ancient dragonlord empire - which subtly For centuries, Longclaw was held by Jeor's father to son. But Jeor's son Jorah fled the he symbolically chooses Jon as his new son. dreamed that his father Ned would give him the is desperate for a father figure - but he doesn't Watch and the Starks - but he accepts the sword. In the south, Ned is imprisoned by King desperately wants to help the Starks - but he's Maester Aemon says the reason why Watch will not love". Watch men should be focussed on that would divide their loyalties, and weaken the so to do his duty, Jon must let Aemon has felt this pain himself, cause Aemon's a and Rhaegar. And great-great-granduncle of in Robert's Rebellion, when his family was So will Jon stay for his duty, or help the Starks but either choice feels like a betrayal. This is is no totally right answer, both options have a think hard about his values and morality. This how to be a hero in a morally complex world. Jon's only parent. So then Jon chooses love punishment for leaving the Watch is death. So and damned". He only hopes to avenge his father Jon is as dramatic and naive as Sansa, in Book Jon rides south, but his friends go after Watch brothers, and bring him back to the Wall. Jon getting himself killed by deserting. Jon make a difference in Robb's army. The war in north - cause beyond the Wall, wildlings are Watch - they are the enemies that matter. Jeor the blood of the Starks, with the magic of the old Jon reflects that he has "no rights, no his Watch duty. Jon is "troubled" by his loves At the start of Book 1, Jon is an immature Jon listens to Tyrion, Donal, Aemon, and Jeor. He and becomes a leader who defends the weak. a hero is complicated. Jon is torn between Starks - can he fight for the greater In Book 2, the Watch rides north. Jeor leads to face the white walkers and to find the been abandoned, so Jeor wants to find out where Whitetree, which has an enormous "monstrous" full of human bones, like a sacrifice to the old rise again as wights. Above, the mystical foretelling change and doom. Book 2 has a Jon once dreamed of adventure beyond the Wall. Jon's back hurts, the food's bad - it's no fun. story. Life is harder, and more complicated - The rangers stop at Craster's Keep. Craster is a Craster marries his own daughters, has children violence and fear. Craster even sacrifices his an evil man. But the Night's Watch treat him as so the Watch gives Craster trade, and weapons. One of Craster's daughter-wives, Gilly, begs Jon take her and her baby to safety. Jon wants to help and won't defy their friend Craster. So Jon feels were the good guys, but they won't help this Craster. Ned taught Jon that it's wrong to make Night's Watch is doing the right thing. Jeor says not to do justice - that sometimes, you have Jon wonders if it's right to compromise but tolerate evil, what are you saving? on display. And Jeor Mormont's nickname is the death at Craster's Keep later on. Mance Rayder has gathered the wildlings in the were abandoned. So the rangers continue north defended by walls built by the ancient First Men. like a... fantasy Stonehenge. Ghost acts weird package - it's a bunch of dragonglass blades, and made of dragonglass can kill white walkers. And artifact with the power to destroy the Wall. the Watch fight the white walkers, and to keep the Or by Coldhands, the mysterious undead servant of but in the books Benjen and Coldhands might be way, Bloodraven could be behind this. Bloodraven would explain Ghost's weird behaviour. In the in the books it's Jon, guided by mystical forces. ranger - the wildings' deadliest enemy. He's in battle with wildlings. Qhorin says Mance Wall with magic - using the Horn of Winter. and he chooses Jon to come with him. Because blood of the Starks, connected to the old gods. mountains. It's a harsh land, but Jon and ravines - turns out there is beauty in so Jon climbs a dangerous mountain trail and first person Jon has ever killed, not including magically connected to his eagle, so when his animal. For the rest of the book, Orell's Jon also faces a wildling named Ygritte. Jon had murderers. But Ygritte is a girl with red hair - this girl. So Jon captures her, and they talk, world. Like, the Watch says wildlings are invaders the southerners stole the wildlings' land. Ygritte's point of view, Jon is from the south, Good and evil can depend on your perspective. Bael. Bael had a baby with a Stark girl, the Starks and the wildlings are related. The story of Bael and the Stark girl also mirrors a blue winter rose from Winterfell, and blue Bael and the Stark hid in the Winterfell crypts - parents in the crypts. Jon has recurring dreams of and he knows he has to go down there. the Watch. So Jon prepares to kill her. But then someone, you should look in their eyes, and hear When Jon looks in Ygritte's eyes, he sees no evil. And he decides to let Ygritte go free. escapes from Jon, and he chases her, running and Jon chooses to spare Ygritte, he makes a moral complex than Watch good, and wildlings That night, Jon has a crazy dream. He magically with Bran's face. Bran connects with Jon and Ghost he shows Jon a huge wildling army nearby. Then, returns injured, it proves that Jon's dream was wolf. He says magic is returning to the world - again". In the TV show, Qhorin is not interested magic from Jon's story. But in the books, Jon leading him towards a mysterious destiny. them through the mountains. The men split Since Qhorin is a famous ranger, he knows that might spare Jon. Qhorin tells Jon to join find out their plans. Jon doesn't want to be not a sneaky traitor. But sometimes a hero has When Jon and Qhorin are caught by the wildlings, him, and lets Jon kill him. With the Halfhand So in Book 2, Jon finally gets an adventure beyond the Night's Watch aren't all good, cause they the wildlings aren't all evil - some of them sworn brothers, and join the enemy, making and his identity. He feels he's lost his Stark too. So who is he now? It also seems that and to the old gods, so what is he now? surrounded by thousands of wildlings. and asks to join their side. In the TV show, and threatening. In the books, it is tense, but and sings. Tormund tells jokes. We meet Mance's and her lover, all cooking and drinking together. family - and family is what Jon has always wanted. threatens to sew a weasel inside Jon's belly. each fortnight. And there's Styr, the leader of a Styr is a scary cannibal who threatens Styr is a more reasonable political leader. The socially organised wildling culture. They forge important later, when Jon tries to integrate the same - their cultures are unique and colourful. wildling leader. But in the books, Mance and passionate, with a real philosophy to his Watch, but he left to join the wildlings. pleasure. He joined the wildlings "for where "a man could wear any cloak he chose". cause they don't kneel to lords or kings. but only by choice - they're always free to into highborn and lowborn, or trueborn and with spearwives like Ygritte fighting alongside says freedom and pleasure are worth the risk. lonely men with no freedom and no families, the is more fair than the exploitative class system join the wildlings because they treat bastards against bastards. Mance is suspicious of Jon, but lets him join them. Secretly, Jon's still the wildlings' freedom, equality, and warmth. Orell's spirit wants revenge for Jon killing him, scarred and haunted by the ghost of the first The wildlings go to the Fist, and were attacked here by white walkers. In this And then Commander Jeor is killed in a mutiny. for the wildlings to attack. Mance sends Styr climb the Wall and attack Castle Black. Mance Ygritte helps Jon be accepted by the wildlings. also has a big crush on Jon, and wants to Watch men aren't meant to have sex. And Jon bastard. As a bastard, Jon suffered prejudice pregnant and bring another bastard into the don't discriminate. They're free to have sex and And Ygritte explains more of the wildling earth for all men t' share", and that it's and people. She shows Jon that giants aren't tragic that they're going extinct. Just as it's they might go extinct. Ygritte says "You know political and moral perspectives on the world. and horny. Jon is a sixteen year old boy, and has sex with Ygritte - he loses his virginity, and technically. They have a particularly memorable to leave. With Ygritte, Jon experiences love and down, Jon knows he's not a wildling, he's of the Ygritte to protect his home from her people. Like lovers, on opposing sides, both doomed to die. show, this is dramatic - they all climb up and Jon saves her. But in the book, it's only a From the top of the Wall, they drop a rope ladder start climbing from the top of a hill, where the about the most logical and realistic way to South of the Wall, they find an old man, and Styr Jon looks in the man's eyes, and he thinks of Ned With Ygritte, Jon refused to kill a wildling. Now black-and-white morality of the Watch versus of the Wall. Before Styr can cut out Jon's heart, are hiding nearby, and Bran wargs his direwolf to the old gods guide Jon. Jon escapes the wildlings, The TV show adds more scenes that deepen the Harington and Rose Leslie have great chemistry Jon returns to Castle Black. And in the first three seasons are pretty close to the show gets increasingly different to the books. Craster's Keep, to kill the mutineers who killed mutineers - then he feeds their bodies to Bran. who are led by Karl Fookin Tanner - a cartoonishly more complex moral perspective, fighting emotional it's about good guys killing bad guys. Karl and the cost of honour. But most of this changes that miss the meaning of the books. and he's a mess. His leg is wounded, his he finds out that Winterfell was burned But Jon puts aside his pain, and focusses on and Castle Black is not ready. Officer Bowen Marsh attacks. So now there's only forty men left to south of the Wall. So it looks like they're Styr's wildlings attack. And Jon knows these wildlings. He travelled with he has to kill them. When Jon sees Ygritte, The Watch men retreat up the Wall, stairs. So then Jon and Donal spring their killing Styr and his wildlings. So in the TV But in the book, Jon uses a smart plan to win. holds her in his arms, tells her she'll be okay. showed Jon freedom and love, and that's what to defend the realm. Jon feels terrible guilt for Styr is dead. But north of the Wall is with cavalry, and chariots, and a hundred giants towers full of bowmen on their backs, like the full strength of the free folk, "The fury Jon looks at the wildlings and thinks "There is is also in a dream Jon has about Winterfell - for you here. Go away". It's also similar "We don't want you here". So Jon's rejection are rejected from the realm. The wildlings and for them. But he can't let this army invade his The Watch men shoot at the wildlings from atop gate into the Wall's tunnel. Which doesn't make Watch men up on the Wall, and the thousands of so most of them just stand around getting But a giant named Mag the Mighty breaks Donal Noye. The great giant and the humble smith This battle continues for days. The Watch men Jon drops barrels of gravel to smash So again, this is different to the TV show. In like a badass. But in the books, Jon stays out of and he's not a great warrior. So instead, Jon stairs. He plans to improve the Wall's defences is not just a fighter. He's a smart leader. against thousands of wildlings. Then Night's Watch Janos Slynt. Janos was commander of the City Ned Stark, he was sent to the Wall. Janos makes together they accuse Jon of joining the wildlings, his old gods against him, using prejudice to make and attacks Alliser. So Janos and Alliser send Jon knows this won't work - he's already betrayed no choice. So Jon bravely faces death. Jon had Ned Stark's true son. But even after all his seen as a traitor by both wildlings and the Watch. Jon goes to the wildlings. And Tormund is toast to the memory of Donal, Mag, and Ygritte. - so the conflict feels tragic and pointless. fighting. He says his "people have bled enough". wildlings for years, driving them from their the Wall to escape the dead. The wildlings aren't that some of the wildlings are brutal raiders, Mance says he has the Horn of Winter, and Though this horn is probably a fake. Jon Horn. But at the last moment, the wildlings The Night's Watch sent letters to every king in And the only one who shows up to protect the realm disorganised wildlings. And Jon protects Mance's So Stannis saves the Night's Watch. He wants Throne. So he needs to take the north, which is northern leader loyal to him. So Stannis offers not a bastard. Jon Snow would become Jon Stark, always wanted - to be a true Stark, Ned's heir. Robb, and to claim Winterfell as his home. Stannis of King Mance, so that Jon and Val might form an is attracted to Val. She's beautiful, capable, and about having children with her at Winterfell. Winterfell, he'd have to leave the Night's Watch, Melisandre wants Jon to burn the Winterfell R'hllor. Jon can't betray his father's gods, the by Stannis' offer. But the Watch needs Jon. election to choose a new leader. Janos Slynt political manipulation to help Jon win. Jon men see Jon as a traitor, a bastard and a because he was Commander Jeor's steward, and Ned wildlings. And Jon also gets support from a raven. at the final vote, this raven reappears and - like a sign that Jon should be the next the 998th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch. Jon win an election. This raven often seems it understands human language. Later, the raven with a flaming sword and black ice armour, then wakes Jon with a "gnarled hand". So some fans Bloodraven. We know that Bloodraven can magically the past. So maybe Bloodraven uses this raven to guiding Jon to lead the Watch to defeat the The TV show removes the talking raven, and away the magic, and the morally murky politics, But Jon becomes commander of the Watch and now he's got Stannis to deal with. with Ygritte - but he gives that up for his duty of Winterfell, his deepest desire. But again Jon wants to do the right thing, but it's hard to him a whole different perspective on politics and thought. And every choice Jon makes has a painful he's lost friends in battle, leaving Jon wounded sad, and isolated, as he struggles to do the In the book, Commander Jon Snow walks a dangerous or else Stannis will destroy him. But if he helps them. Cersei actually plots to assassinate Jon in peace between the Night's Watch and the wildlings So Can Jon unite everyone to survive this winter? very different in the books Aemon says "Kill the boy and let the man be born". must make hard choices, and "do So Jon makes tough decisions. He sends his best maester. Sam doesn't want to go, so Jon forces he's not Jon any more, he's become "Lord Snow", "Lord Snow" now. It started as Alliser's source of strength - just like Tyrion suggested. wants people with kings' blood so she can burn because he's a Targaryen - so Jon sends Aemon Jon knows that Aemon's so old that he And Jon makes another harsh decision - he sends abandon her baby, and to instead take Mance baby also has king's blood - Melisandre might the babies. Gilly begs Jon to let her keep her stays strong, and cold, does what must be done. Ned promised to protect Lyanna's baby. Jon and remembers saying goodbye to Robb. Jon Leadership makes Jon isolated. As Lord Commander, so he feels he can't hang out with his friends to other castles, leaving Jon alone, friendless, protection of loyal friends when he needs them. and focusses on his duty. Jon often works all is punishing himself - out of guilt for Ygritte. cause he wants to be a better swordsman. warrior. But this training could make Jon Janos disobeys Jon's orders. So Jon executes hears his last words, and then cuts off his and chose not to kill that old man - but this tolerate defiance. But killing Janos is also and Janos betrayed Ned, so killing Janos is to the Night's Watch and his love for the Starks. burning him alive. -Though in the books, this is a working for Melisandre. Stannis lets a thousand burn a piece of weirwood to symbolise accepting glowing sword Lightbringer. Melisandre says But Jon sees that Stannis' sword is not the real who is? Jon did have that dream of fighting the looks in her flames for a glimpse Many in the Night's Watch hate wildlings, learned that wildlings are just people, some protects the realms of men - and "what are these must unite against the white walkers. So Jon and he personally brings them food. In the same she tries to make peace and unity. Jon and Dany vulnerable people. Jon convinces some wildlings giant named Wun Wun to the Wall. So with bravery Jon gives Stannis advice to help him take the clans, and to take Deepwood Motte, before he supposed to help Stannis - the Night's Watch is Boltons and Lannisters destroyed Jon's family there's tension between Jon's Night's Watch duty to make Jon a Stark, he says the north would about northern politics, he'd be a good Lord of So Stannis and his army march off to war, but he wife Selyse at the Wall. Which is another headache Melisandre is a priestess of the fire god R'hllor. and she warns Jon that he's in danger from magic power. But Jon doesn't trust Melisandre. prove her power - Melisandre has a vision with their eyes gouged out. And this vision comes Then Melisandre has a vision of "A girl in grey Jon's sister Arya. Cause at Winterfell, Ramsay The girl actually isn't Arya, she's a girl called know that. So Jon wants to save his sister from cause his duty is on the Wall - so Melisandre So Melisandre pretended to burn Mance, in a magic disguise, apparently under Melisandre's secret mission - Mance and six wilding women go to try to save his sister, but it's also risky - to secretly plot with the wildling king, or allowed to help their sisters, only their Watch And it turns out Melisandre is wrong about her Black, but it's not Arya - it's Alys Karstark, wants to forcibly marry Alys, to take over House the Boltons. So this is another moral dilemma to interfere in politics. But Alys begs Jon imprisons Cregan, and he warns Stannis of the for Alys. Jon marries Alys to Sigorn, the new will help Alys claim Karhold. And Jon hopes this the north. At the wedding, Watch men and wildlings and peace between former enemies. But politically, that the Watch married a northern girl to a northern castle. And by imprisoning Cregan, and the Warden of the North, the ally of King prepare for the white walkers. But his radical personal biases put the Night's Watch in danger. been in decline for centuries. They don't have Benjen, Qhorin and Aemon. And after hosting enough food for winter. So Jon finds solutions. He the book, Tycho has a Big Purple Hat. And Jon plans to build greenhouses to grow vegetables in to communicate. Most of the Wall's castles are men and wildlings. Jon trains his men on archery for defending the Wall. Jon talks to Wun Wun to about the white walkers and their zombies, so Jon dead, to try to talk to them. Jon has lots of that to the TV show, where Jon is a brave himbo Jon is stubbornly honest, he "cannot lie". But he swaps the babies. Like when he sends Mance to even though Jon promised Stannis that he wouldn't. honourable, but he feels that saving the realm lie is the right thing to do. The TV show battles against evil. But book Jon grapples Jon also makes change and justice. Cause equal opportunities, you get what you earn - privileges because his dad is a lord. Most of the from noble families - the Watch isn't fair. So to lowborn people. Jon makes a wildling the new a lowborn guy. And Jon mentors a boy named Satin. being a boy "whore". But Jon sees that Satin is steward, potentially training Satin for command. and injustice. He saw how people like Arya and Sam as Commander, Jon makes the Watch more fair and instead of their social class. These changes anger complains - making change also makes enemies. wildlings desperate to escape the white walkers. house them in castles along the Wall, to help wealth, including a fancy ivory dildo. And to boys as hostages. So the wildlings are angry outraged. These men dedicated their lives to by wildlings in battle. So Bowen says it's insists they must unite everyone against the white even the brutal raiders who gouged the eyes out of but he fails to compromise, and fails to doesn't communicate well - he doesn't even tell Bank. So Jon makes political mistakes. at a village called Hardhome. In the TV and he kills a white walker. But that doesn't some men to save the wildlings, and we hear it Ultimately, Jon lets the wildlings through the the Watch men kill Jon. Jon does the right thing in the show. But in the book, there's more to it. Ramsay says that Stannis is dead, defeated in accuses Jon stealing his bride. Cause with the Winterfell. So Ramsay demands that Jon give or else he'll "cut out" Jon's "bastard's heart this letter, like that Stannis isn't really dead, the letter. But this letter is a huge threat to Cause as Commander of the Watch, Jon was meant to and helped Alys, and sent Mance to take Ramsay's Starks, he brings the wrath of the Boltons upon balance love and duty, but this letter forces him Watch, or will he fight for Arya and Winterfell? Sansa and Arya. And he decides to fight. Jon secret Mance plot, and Jon declares that he'll also says Tormund will lead the Watch on another wildlings rally behind Jon. But the Night's Watch deserting the Wall, involving the Night's Watch in First, there's a distraction - the giant Wun is a hidden reference to football - the giant teams the New York Giants. And Ser Patrek who supports the Dallas Cowboys - the Cowboys a blue star. And this football easter Jon tries to calm everyone down, but in the and Jon falls, bleeding, in the snow. killing of ancient Roman leader Julius Caesar threat, so they're stabbed to death by their own same. And George is a fan of Roman history, and taking inspiration here. Caesar was killed on the So some fans call Jon's killing the Ides of Marsh. cruel and vindictive Alliser Thorne. But in the Jon. Bowen is not evil. Even Jon thinks that Bowen cries. He feels he's forced to kill Jon, endanger the Watch, out of love for the Starks. plotting and politicking to save lives, balance duty with love - helping Arya and Alys and the Watch and the Starks, he chooses love. Love is So what happens next? writing the next books to finish the series. But what will happen in The Winds of Winter. he comes back to life, he's tired and but his personality is mostly the same. In the death is a "transformative experience", his "lost something". When Beric Dondarrion dies and identity. When Catelyn dies and is resurrected, who's consumed with hate and revenge. George says they're not going to come back as nice In the TV show, Jon's resurrection is and a --haircut -- and he comes back to life. complicated. Cause there are hints that Jon's books explain that when a skinchanger dies, their a "second life". We saw Orell live on in his eagle live on in his wolf. Varamyr thinks that Jon a second life worthy of a king". Melisandre has then "a man again" - hinting that Jon will live his human body. In Book 5, Jon's connection with are "one". And when Jon is stabbed, his last word ghost will live in Ghost for a while. Why? personality, it makes you more like your animal. their human memory slowly fades, til "only the Jon less human, and more wolfish. Ned says that making them wild and reckless. Jon is sometimes Alliser twice, and has a violent outburst in supresses his desires - he thinks "I am a man, not with his beast might finally unleash Jon's wolf character, more focussed on his own desires. Cause in Book 5, like Jon, Daenerys tries to the sake of politics and the greater good. But at and this crisis changes her. As she wanders Quaithe that remind her of her Targaryen identity. for "Fire and Blood", and to go home to Westeros. Winterfell. And Jon could also have visions. and from Bran, through Ghost. So maybe as a could find out that Bran and Rickon are still become King in the North and to defeat the white Visions could reveal secrets, unlock power, Though, in this world, visions and dreams use visions to influence people. Can Jon trust Jon's spirit could stay in Ghost for a while. and find uncle Benjen, or learn the secrets or help Bran come south. He could have lots of the brain of wolf, tripping on vision... But Jon resurrected in his human body, and like in the it - in the book, Melisandre says you'll "have When Jon is resurrected, there might be a Beric dies. When Mirri heals Drogo, Daenerys' Mirri dies. Melisandre says "Only death can sacrifice". So what sacrifice will pay for Jon's maybe Ghost will die - if Jon and Ghost's spirits of Ghost to live in Ghost's body? Melisandre says so maybe the sacrifice will be King Mance or prophesies that king's blood will wake a dragon maybe the dragon is Jon Targaryen, awoken from that no one will die. Cause when Thoros resurrects humanity - he loses his memories and identity. back to life, but at the cost of his soul. Jon looks the same. Just with some sexy new scars. Cause when Catelyn is resurrected, her hair goes white after his symbolic death and rebirth. So cause that would have a lot of symbolic like Bloodraven and the weirwoods. White hair like his father Rhaegar. And red eyes would be the fire god R'hllor. George says that Beric is "a Jon be a fire wight? Or will he be an ice wight, magic could both help resurrect Jon, combining making Jon a wight of ice and fire. "Under the sea the crows are white as snow" - this could be a hint that undead Jon will have he once covered himself in flour to make TV show, they call Jon the White Wolf. death will give him pale skin, white hair, back to normal - he's changed, he's undead. Coldhands and Melisandre don't need to eat or or sleep if he has to fight a war, or travel undead. Beric loses memories, Stoneheart can wounded and rotted, their hearts don't beat. Will beat, will his penis still work? That could be after he's killed, Jon's corpse will be kept in "sleeping" in a "cold bed" with his skin going Wall preserves. So an ice cell might prevent Jon's Jon is a warg - his spirit won't die, it'll his mind and memories. So Jon won't be too Aemon said "Kill the boy and let the man be new man will be born? Living in Ghost could and reckless. He might have visions from purpose. He might look different, with white The Night's Watch oath says my watch won't he's arguably free from his vows, he can leave the After Catelyn and Beric's resurrections, they revenge for the Red Wedding, Beric fights in the of what's animating him". So after Jon's final mission - fight Ramsay, save Arya, and wanted to do since Book 1 - ride south. fights the Battle of the Bastards to beat the it might be Stannis who defeats the Boltons - and will win a battle on a frozen lake. Stannis might've already won the war. Jon might fight Ramsay later. The Stark Jon reuniting with his Stark wolf pack. But if the TV show - it won't just be Jon surviving face twenty-one times. Like all of book Jon's In the TV show, Ramsay has Jon's brother Rickon, anyway. There's no meaningful choice or lesson Maybe in the book, Jon will make a moral choice. or else he'll kill Rickon, but since Jon is now Jon attacks anyway, and causes Rickon's death. he's willing to risk innocent lives to get what he Jon and Sansa, who might blame Jon for Rickon's Starks, but at the cost of alienating his Stark This is just speculation. But Jon's battles in person he's become after his resurrection. Once the Boltons are defeated, Stannis might go walkers after he sacrifices Shireen. So who will the northern lords make Jon the King in who gets Winterfell, because she's the eldest the lords ignore the line of succession cool guy. But in the books, Jon has an actual Robb Stark wants Jon to be his heir as King in the a true Stark not a bastard. So Robb writes a will, but it probably names Jon as the next King will. But Maege Mormont and Galbart Glover know, was at the tower of joy, where Jon was born, so daughter is with Stannis' army, with the mountain Jon suspects that these guys have some secret and two of Edmure's men go to the Wall. Stoneheart and she travels to the Neck where Howland and there's a conspiracy to make Jon King in the legacy of leadership, and Jon is seen as the heir Jon, because he's Ned Stark's son - that means reveal Robb's will and declare Jon King in the other northern conspiracies happening. Lord Wyman Littlefinger plans to use Sansa and the Vale and the real Arya will return. And all of these than Jon does. Robb's will was written on the Robb's will definitive? Does a legitimised bastard The laws of succession in Westeros are vague political factions at play here. This could be family - and creating deep conflict within Jon. and his desire to be the Stark of Winterfell. in the North. It's another thing that just there's this weird conflict where Sansa is Sansa. It's one of the worst plotlines in the in the conflict cause he doesn't want Winterfell. "he used to dream that one day Winterfell might head and screams "I am the Lord of Winterfell". it more than anything. And his resurrection Jon could be a great King in the North. He's a northern politics, he's respected by northmen. white walkers. There's lots of foreshadowing that But becoming King in the North will have a Sansa. He might get lots of wildings killed in without him. To become the Stark of Winterfell, and the wildlings, and the Starks - without Jon was never close with Sansa or Rickon. Jon and Arya miss each other often, and try to save Arya. So it'll be super emotional when this is a mostly happy reunion. But in Cause Jon and Arya have been through so much. murdered people, and she's still just eleven got murdered. They're both traumatised by death, Jon the bastard, he's now an undead Stark king, and her face so many times that she's not Arya, they might not recognise each other. each other. Like, Theon and Asha don't recognise exploring themes of identity and perception. she specifically worries that Jon won't recognise Jon has already met a fake Arya - he thought Alys another fake Arya. So when Jon finally meets the could recognise each other later, but the point through, Jon and Arya can't have their So Winterfell might not be the happy the family may be divided. Jon's identity will the Watch, the wildlings - and his hidden Maybe Jon will abdicate as King in the Jon has more wars to fight. The white walkers dragons. In A Dream of Spring, Jon will In the TV show, Jon and Daenerys fall in love. too - Daenerys has a vision of a blue flower on a flower could be Jon, because his mother Lyanna Jon and Daenerys' love. Jon and Dany have a lot to protect people. They both want family and and transformative magic. Jon is attracted like Val - like Dany. And Daenerys is attracted and Daario. Jon may be more violent and have sense that Jon and Dany could fall in love. They Queen Daenerys could unite the north and south. A Song of Ice and Fire. Daenerys' dragons are dead. So together they could burn the white Westeros happily ever after. What could go wrong? he's not Ned's bastard, he's the son of Jon is arguably the rightful King of secretly got married like in the TV show, There're a few ways Jon could discover this. was there when Jon was born, and George Martin maybe Benjen will tell Jon about his parents. to learn the truth from his beloved uncle. Benjen where Rhaegar and Lyanna probably got his parents' relationship was really like. the Winterfell crypts. Jon has those recurring his father", and he has to come down here. There parents in the crypts - like Rhaegar's harp, are rumours of hidden dragon eggs in the crypts. dragon identity. George uses the same metaphor discovering his identity in the stone crypts from stone - Jon will enter the crypts as Ned's So what will the truth of his parents mean to him? was never a bastard. He might be horrified that him, and that Prince Rhaegar hooked up with her that killed thousands. Jon's grandfather was the is Darth Vader. And Jon's lover Daenerys is his your sister. It's like poetry, it rhymes. Targaryen. But for this revelation to have Cause Jon's story is a search for identity. He he joined the Night's Watch, why he was tempted a Targaryen could finally give Jon a family - ancestral homes at King's Landing and Dragonstone. In the books, there's already several Aegons, so Even as a child, Jon felt connected to Targaryens. Targaryen was Jon's beloved mentor. And with side. Jon could bond with the dragon Rhaegal, Jon rides Rhaegal in flight, experiences that joy the books, there's a magical connection between dreams - visions of future triumph and doom. Cause of ambition and destruction. Dragons connecting him to his Targaryen heritage In the TV show, Jon doesn't want to be King of Throne. Because he's always wanted justice, and he learned a whole new political ideology of used political power to make change. In Book world - but he fails cause he doesn't have as a Targaryen dragon king, maybe then he could Much like Jon's great-great-grandfather, King Egg, to protect the vulnerable, but he was frustrated could use their power for good. But, in the end, at Summerhall. Daenerys also seems headed for like other Targaryens, Jon will be tempted by the Rhaegal. He'll want to use this power for good they kill innocent people, "fire burns". Cersei. But in the books, she might fight to be a Targaryen. Their war could be a new dragons danced the people died". Daenerys' will ask himself - is it okay to kill innocent make sacrifices so he can rule. But Jon will also mercy, to protect the innocent. Donal taught Jon the precious fleeting beauty of life. If Jon burns and what has he become? This is a moral struggle, destined to be a fiery Targaryen because he has the father who raised Jon? This is the song of Jon might also be tempted by Melisandre. In and visions. Jon doesn't trust Melisandre at wins him over. She makes a bunch of correct to use Melisandre's visions. When Jon is killed Melisandre, that will prove her power even more. says Jon is the prophesied hero Azor Ahai. but book Jon might listen. Cause book Jon reads with a flaming sword. After he's reborn, he may believe he's destined to save So Jon may accept Melisandre's help. She and how to use its power. But unfortunately, her and killing your own brother with magic shadows. will probably destroy him. And Melisandre is treacherous. And her religion is dangerous. Tormund says people think Jon is a "god". Then the is increasingly important. The sparrows rise and Daenerys is Azor Ahai, and demand a holy war. At including Baratheon knights, and some Watch men the dead, he could be seen as a religious messiah. him the power to unite armies, to win wars. But sacrifice and the destruction of other religions. could lead to religious war in Westeros, between with the Faith of the Seven. If Jon uses the power So Jon will be torn between Targaryen morality. And this war for his heart will While Jon is in the south, things will get bad Stannis is doomed. And the Wall will fall. In the break the Wall. In the books it might be Euron or by stealing one of Dany's dragons. But the In the TV show, the battle against the at Winterfell. But in the books, this could be a Westeros. The previous Long Night is said to and sunless skies, causing mass starvation. strike - there are legends of fallen stars and are tales of the white walkers hunting humans hordes. So the Long Night could be a dark magical gods and heroes". The world will need a saviour. in the books, Jon is set up as the hero. He he's had those prophetic dreams. So In the TV show, the good guys all unite for a is this what the books are leading up to? George fighting bad guys - he said "We don't need any conflicts. Where's the moral challenge here? aren't evil, so instead he made peace with them. the white walkers? Jon wants to learn about the And in the books, the white walkers can talk, they ice. George calls them "beautiful", "elegant", "a have a right to exist. In Book 5, Patrek jokes will welcome them as guests. So maybe Jon will. white walkers - that he'll make a peace deal. walkers - like, Craster gives babies to the white the legend of the Night's King. The Night's King a cold woman with blue eyes, and made sacrifices the previous Long Night ended not with a battle, married a wight, and the Watch agreed to give them descended from the Night's King and his queen. And that they want him to become a new Night's King. take over Jon's body - just like they raised where he's armoured in ice - maybe his body will The Night's King fell in love with a pale will tempt Jon with a pale blue-eyed woman - a striking white outfit, with her blue eyes and a a zombie seductress to Jon. Jon might get visions that this is the only way to end the Long Night. by giving Val his magic seed, and sacrificing a walkers and humanity. This could be tempting. But is maybe not a good peace agreement - it's a moral King and Craster's deals didn't permanently white walkers offer, Jon should refuse them. Lords. But they're also not misunderstood moral of nature, an imbalance in the seasons. They are to unite. Unlike the petty destructive wars of worth fighting, for the survival of life itself. but he says some wars are necessary, like stopping a deal with the white walkers. It's prophesied The prophecy says that Azor Ahai, or the prince fight against the darkness. When Melisandre she sees Jon "Snow". As a Stark and a Targaryen, hero that "his is the song of ice and fire". when Ned promised Lyanna. It's prophesied and Jon is Aerys' grandson. It's prophesied that will wake his dragon identity in the stone crypts. beneath a bleeding star amidst smoke and salt. tears when Jon is killed. It's said Azor Ahai This could be a metaphor for dragons. But it could light a sword on fire with his blood. So maybe blood. It might be that the Dayne sword Dawn is and light it on fire to make it Lightbringer. It also fits the prophecy, so Jon and Dany could Lightbringer by sacrificing his beloved wife. by killing their leader, the Night King. In Melisandre says the white walkers are controlled "whose name may not be spoken". This nameless the gods of the weirwood trees, who are also also in the books, the white walkers were created the old gods. And the white walkers are often is some kinda evil offshoot of the old gods. In the white walkers were created. In the books, be the centre of white walker power in the far at the heart of winter, an evil spirit in a frozen them, Jon has to destroy this tree. YouTuber He points out that in the TV show, Beric stabs a could represent burning the spiral frozen tree. Great Other, he must journey north. George see further north than ever before. The journey The last hero "set out into the dead lands" with and got the help of the children of the forest to north with his sword and his dog, guided by Bran's badass rangers to join him, fighting the dead, beyond "the curtain of light at the end of the dragons. Maybe Jon will convince Daenerys that her war for the Iron Throne - that their duty So Jon and Daenerys will face the heart of winter. do more than just burn a tree. Cause the legends emphasise sacrifice, and tough moral choices. as a sacrifice, to make the sword Lightbringer. fire into his sword, to burn the Great Other. save the world. Will Jon kill his lover? Ygritte to protect the realm. He took the Night's Watch to save Arya. This could love - will he kill Daenerys to save the world? worth sacrificing one person for the world. as the last dragonlord. That it's his destiny, But this series questions fantasy tropes like magic Targaryen dynasty was often a disaster - caused terrible destruction. Special the whole feudal class system is a horrific Jon deserves power because of his Targaryen blood. and with Rhaegar, and Stannis - "Prophecy So Jon should not blindly follow prophecy. dude killed his wife to get a sword. Is he really about the evil Bloodstone Emperor, who killed legendary Grey King killed a female dragon and child of the forest, who then died in childbirth, man who killed a woman and got magic power - not saviours. It might be that the original not ended it. Killing some magic woman might've gods, that unbalanced the cosmos in the first it didn't destroy the white walkers - they of violence by sacrificing Dany? This choice Because Jon has the magic blood. He could fulfil makes Jon special, what makes him a worthy hero, because of his choices. Jon learned humility and Stark's bastard, and Ned taught him justice, and He thinks of Ned when he spares that old man. he'll again think of Ned, and will spare Dany. Daenerys. So now, Jon can do the same, he can He can reject the temptation of fiery power and and instead make a human moral choice. himself. Jon has often been willing to he thinks if he has to die to save the north, self-sacrifice is the meaning of the Night's Watch in the end, he can keep his oath, by giving his stab Jon to forge Lightbringer. Or he could tree - giving up his fiery blood to burn the fitting ending to Jon's story. Like his dream of a Here's another possibility - instead of killing dragon Rhaegal. Because Rhaegal represents Jon's fire and of flight. Rhaegal is named for Jon's king. If Jon kills Rhaegal, he gives up that there are no examples of a dragonrider killing it would be like killing part of yourself. Killing could finally resolve Jon's identity crisis. and instead follow Ned Stark's moral example - Jon is not defined by his blood. He is not a and he chooses to follow Ned's moral example. so the dragon's fire goes into the blade, creating burning the Great Other, and destroying the white others and seizing power, like Azor Ahai and men in this story. Instead Jon could make a human Night. But there'll still be one more sad war. response to The Lord of the Rings, the classic both warriors and leaders who fight to save both are secret heirs to the kingdom. But George marries the girl and rules well for a hundred George loves the bit at the end of the Lord After the Dark Lord is defeated, the hobbits world - Saruman took over the Shire, and there's live happily ever after, cause he's wounded magic fades from the world of men. It's about and the inevitability of change. The heroes save but also sad - it's bittersweet. George says the So Jon might also face a sad final conflict. can rule, but they'll find Cersei on the throne - civilians hostage. Like in TV show, Daenerys will of innocent people. In the TV show, she does but in the books it might be accidental, because also be involved. Maybe Daenerys will lose control against her will. Daenerys struggles to control dragons cannot be controlled, they are inherently fire is an apocalyptic threat to this world. Throne, but will be hated by the people Griff will be popular. So after Daenerys burns Dany to be queen. And they'll want her dragon So to bring peace to the realm, Jon might have Daenerys sees her dragons as her children. They dragon queen. After everything she's lost, if Jon kills Drogon, she'd see that as the ultimate treason. But Jon may see that the realm can't have Daenerys has the throne. This will be another his love to protect the realm? Make another just as he saved it from ice? He will want but he'll know that peace is more important than Daenerys. Maybe he could fake Daenerys' death so the lovers? There's lots of possibilities. explore her fate. But it makes sense that Jon will die. Cause in the books, dragons make magic magic could fade away. Like at the end of The and the beginning of a world more like our own. Jon might have to kill King Bran. Cause Bran the old gods - having a creepy inhuman tree wizard original outline of the series said that Jon seem like a sinister force, manipulating humanity they need to be destroyed. Jon might have to Whether he kills King Bran or kills Daenerys, So this'll be another self-sacrifice. to go home to Winterfell, or be a king. He as a traitor and murderer. Jon will give up In Book 1, Benjen said Jon didn't know what he Jon has experienced love with Ygritte, Wall and on dragonback, tasted glory in battle. and now he understands what he's giving up. So like in the TV show, Jon may be exiled beyond might get to join the wildlings - Tormund says Jon likes the free folk life. And he had always Jon will finally get to be with Val, if Jon would be free of war, of politics, of vows. and resurrection, and his sacrifices, Jon won't Beric, unable to feel or enjoy life. Maybe zombie to stay. And there he'll remain, with his memories George Martin loves fantasy - heroes, romance, more complex. So his characters grow up, they is not a fairy tale. Good and evil are not princes to save the world. So in a complex Jon Snow is a deconstruction of the classic to the kingdom, prophesied to save the world - but the fantasy tropes. His heroism is realer and more he makes morally grey choices. He has doubts, he chooses to save others. That's what makes but because people's lives matter. In a complex At the end of this series, there'll still be and weakness in every heart. But Jon for light in a dark world - a dream of spring. about A Song of Ice and Fire, and House of the We've already made videos about Bloodraven, Conspiracy, and more so check those out. Thank for making illustrations for this video. Shoutout whose excellent analysis helped inform this Alt Shift X on Patreon to get extra updates and Kolontaev, jackjmoore, Andrew, Arran Shackell,