Wireshark is one of the most powerful and Windows. I'm going to show you how to use analyze packet data, and identify This video is an update to a years ago. Since then, I've Wireshark and So let's get into it. Wireshark is free to download When you first install it, there's an to install, at least on Mac, so just make sure to you first download it. Now once it's installed immediately see in the network interface cards You obviously have networks that you device, the computer that you're using. Generally speaking, to look at your Depending on your difficult to sniff the network. Mac users should be totally fine. They have been for a long time There has been some issues So to get started and just to jump data, let's just double click When we double click, starts capturing go and capture packets So if you're website or something to try and access that And then once you think you have you can go ahead red stop button up So now we have some You can see at the very bottom of 242 packets and 100% of them are But as we filter things we'll probably drill seeing all of them at once. Each of the rows screen is a single Whenever information a network, it's That means that every time you load download something, packets of information between your computer There are also a bunch of packets, transferred at any given time, especially as all of communicate with each other and the router to make Because of this, one of the major audits in general is sifting through all of the unimportant 's not important right now. So I'm going to show a bird's eye view of that's going on here in Wireshark filter things out to drill down and The first thing I like at a new packet known as, is to go up here in Wireshark Now there are some I'm not going to go through all of them. I'm going to go to one particular, 's a really good looking for general especially like this This shows the properties of the But what I want to do is I want to Now when I do that, in Wireshark and I conversations that are part of So I can see, we have some tabs different protocols. So I could for instance go to the particular IP address was communicating my computer's IP bytes in this conversation. We can see how many A to B3, from B to A4, packets were, the duration of the information. I should mention that network analysis, it's some of the IP addresses on your network. So for example, I know that You can find that out network settings on it's Mac or Windows, You also might want to know And if there's a particular device a good idea to know maybe the Mac so that you can find accessing the network at all. One thing to look for in this section computer, so looking at your computer's IP address, is unknown device. If you see that happening, you could ark and try and discover of the communication trying to communicate with. And actually, that and I want to step You see, Wireshark is tool, but it's kind of sandbox game. It's better used with a So some examples include a device not can use Wireshark to see if Maybe someone at they've been phished, the link that they got while capturing with on a safe machine, to see Or more simply, maybe just to see what on your network to see if you Wireshark can help with all of use and the packets that So the rest of this on helping you learn from a general perspective so that and seek tutorials Okay, back to the conversation Here is where some Wireshark You see, I brought eye view of everything Wireshark, but this screen to start So what we can do is we can find an want to look at all the packets to So I have my IP to find where it's in It's just going to make And then I'm going to right click on apply as filter. And then I'm going to go to selected options in here. I'm just going to quickly go over idea of what's going on. But you'll notice that the first conversation stream. So just this entire conversation. The A, B with the two packets that were sent B. The A arrow to B will show any any packets B to A. one, A is either any IP address. And that's the one that But you can kind of use which So when I click on a filter is now in the top. And because we have the port in which I don't really want So I'm just going to close And then I can go can just delete out So we can see it says That is how you can were sent either to or You could have typed I showed you how easier by right clicking You can do that from anywhere in Wireshark. So you can right click in You can follow conversations, which But just don't be afraid There's a lot of valuable Now before we go any further, let's we have some additional So what I'm going to do is I'm just to the file menu. I'm on Mac on Windows. Just click on the drop just going to close And it's going to ask you, You can save your PCAPs. You can export them to open We don't want to save this. This wasn't important. So I'm going to hit It brings me back to the initial screen. Now I'm going to I'm going to be load up a couple of websites while I better data in there. Okay, so we will double click on Ethernet. And now I'm just going And I'm going to load this other website. Make sure that one's actually loading. Okay, so I've loaded a couple of websites. Now let's go ahead and hit stop. Now notice that we still So I'm just going to delete that So we can see we captured, if we All of them are currently being displayed. So now what? Well, it depends what you're looking for. But let's talk about looking So first of all, in this filter bar, you're kind of afraid hacked or phished or going on, usually that servers and networks So you might want to look at HTTP So in your filter here, And you'll notice when it turns equation filter. If it's red, it's not going to work. So you need to try and figure it out. But it's green, so we can hit enter. And now we're seeing Now this happens to be from the It was HTTP. I want to show you something So notice, we can just click And we start to see this So let's close up some of these. I have these all open. But I think it'll be it from a little bit So you can see within this packet, that are encapsulated. We've got Ethernet, TCP, So this is the one that we're kind of And if we notice that Wireshark might find interesting So if we can drill this And you'll notice information about what So we can see it was accessed We can see what browser was used. So what we can actually do is we these packets up here. And we can go to this follow And we want to follow the HTTP stream. And this will pop up a new window the information that was Now the reason I'm showing you this packet sent over an encrypted connection, you A few little things, probably see the sent on and all that stuff. But notice what we've got here. We have this entire web page. This is the web page I went to. It's here in Wireshark now. I could put this into a compiler, an the web page. So we've got everything in here. So what this means is So the way phishing you a link that maybe of America link or a social media link. Oftentimes they have a reason. Maybe they know you're So they're trying to trick you. They're targeting you. And you open up that link. And that link like a Bank of America It's a page that they built. They can build them super fast. And it's now over an HTTP connection. So you enter your username and password. That person who's in here to Wireshark the network. And they can see your that you entered right So that is how an easy You do it with also see if it's happening So I just wanted to show you that. And so we've got this entire web page here. So we can close this out. We drilled all the way that was transferred And now we're seeing the-- because stream, we're seeing all of the packets that So that's awesome. But how can we look at secure traffic? Well, to look at insecure To look at secure traffic, we actually And that's usually port 80. It can also be port like 8000, 8001, 8002. But generally, you're going So what you would want to do is you And then hit Enter. And this will show that were sent on TCP traffic. When we start to look at the actual it because it's encrypted. Now, if you had the actually upload that and you can decrypt it. So if you're doing on an organizational to test things and see the data that's here in Wireshark, you can upload you can actually see that. That's very advanced, though. So we're not going to Now, since we've been filters and stuff, I to create a button here in Wireshark. So we did this filter to What we can do is instead of having here to the right side of the Now it allows us to create a filter button. So we can just call can just call it port to call it. We can enter some comments. We can change we wanted to, but And now we have this nice So if we were to delete out our captured and click So we've now created our first button. And I'm going to give you a bunch of should probably create a button for they're really Okay, let's clear out this filter. Let's start to talk about some You've probably noticed I have What do they all mean? Well, the easy way to go up here to the to go to coloring rules. And here you can see and modify here in Wireshark. So you can see black red has to do with that sort of thing. So you can kind of get an idea. I'm going to show you some filters specifically these on But anytime you're the coloring stands can find it and where you So if we scroll down You'll notice on the right side of coloring as well. So these are things that It's an analysis tool. So it captures the information, But then Wireshark runs its own where these colored These red ones and black ones, something here.&quot; It's not like, &quot;Hey, this You're in trouble.&quot; This is, you might want If you're looking for network, these are So we can see we've got maybe This often happens at You'll notice as the capture So I wouldn't really I know people do ask people asked about that a lot. But I'm going to show you how you I'm going to show you a filter that So we'll get back to that. But one thing I want to do is I First of all, is I want to show So in Mac, I'm going to go up to But if you're using can find out how to on Windows too. So go into your preferences. And then within here, there's a So you can change how So by default, we have this one, But one thing that is kind of a newer to see sometimes is instead of in this the packet bytes, to see the packet diagram. And if you enable that, you can I think this is really good, So you might want to poke around in structure of the packet, how many bytes are structured, But so yeah, that's a cool option as well. Another thing that I how to add delta time So we have all of these columns up customizable. So I can just go to my preferences again. And this time I'm going to go to You'll notice that we can click So I could give this a Well, I'll just call it delta. And then we can double click in We want delta time. So you can see you've got And then I can just, I can actually So I don't want it at the end. So we'll click OK. You'll notice we now have the delta here in Wireshark. Okay, so now we've gone through modified some settings. So now I'm going to show I'll warn you though, video is probably more users or at least once beginner looking for some So the first filter is a general filter at protocols. So to do this, we're and we're going to Then we're going to do we're going to add don't want to see. So ARP or ARP or STP And then we're going And right now, if we look at the bottom . Open that filter and we've taken out, those aren't But this will kind bit depending on how is. So you might want to Now the next one at is to see all of your the first part of the three-way handshake. So this is when connections So we're going to go And for this one, we're And we're going to, we can We don't have to type it all out. Flags.SYN==1, enter. These are all of our, the first So again, if you're, if you know what hopefully you find this helpful. I think you, you know, you know So that one might be The next filter is the one How can we see just the We can go up here. And for this one, we can And you'll notice seeing the flagged For those of you using it for the first worried that there's your network or to start here. There's probably nothing. I don't think, you know, looking of dropped packets and things like that. Retransmissions, fast retransmissions, not like a ton of them at once. So you know, this isn't that concerning, that's what you're looking for. To see if there are any specific release, aka one of your devices said, to you, go away, We can use the filter You can see it's auto-filling for me. So I do have a few of those. So you know, this is definitely So obviously there are a ton of filters get really creative with your filters here in Wireshark, started in digging deeper. Like I said, it all depends If you want to see some examples of check out this website, They have a bunch of PCAP So you can just kind of click here For each PCAP on the site, they give and investigate and out, which gives some sandbox world of provide an explanation answers that are So this is great practice for anybody And I know that there are plenty of have their students So that's how good it is. I hope that you now have an idea of network data, and down to exactly what If you found this video helpful, I would on YouTube. If you want to see don't forget to Good luck analyzing the PCAPs I'm Anson Alexander and I