The Rubik's Cube was invented in 1974 by other types of twisty puzzles have been made. But back in 1988, a computer program called But what the hell is the 4th dimension? You've probably seen this famous gif of You know how when you were bored in like 6th grade then connecting them with lines. But those lines for the 3rd dimension aren't Because of the projection on to 2d Another way to draw a cube in 2d is like this. Now let's add Rubik's cube colours to But this view is unhelpful because the side So we'll just get rid of that side, leaving But to a 2D being, this view is still unhelpful They can't see the inside. To fix this, we'll move the sides away from each other. Now we just think of this same process, but Instead of connecting squares with lines, What we get is the tesseract: But where exactly is the 4th dimension? well it's represented by these connecting lines that are technically 90 degrees from the others, it just doesn't look that way due to the projection Now, let's add Rubik's Cube colours But again we run into the same problem, where the side that's closest to us in the 4th dimension obstructs our view So let's just remove that side and do some rotations But this view is still unhelpful to us because we can't see the inside of the cube so let's just make the sides go further away from each other, and voila! This is the 4D Rubik's Cube, specifically There's actually 4 types of pieces, so instead or edge, we just call them by the number of It has 8 1-coloured, or 1c pieces, 24 2c, in 4 dimensions that has 4 colours. The 2c pieces still have 2 orientations, but the 3c pieces have 6 orientations, and the 4c pieces have 12 orientations. All of this culminates in something that's way more complex than the 3D puzzle. Other 4D puzzles in the MagicCube4D program which is like a pyraminx, a bunch of different that don't even have names , and the But nowadays, there's a bunch of different There's MC5D, MC7D, and Magic Puzzle Ultimate, can imagine in any dimension you want. These computer programs are really cool, but Cubers want something they can touch. They want to be able to pick up a puzzle, They want to be able to smash it... break it! But all this begs the question: Is it possible Cube in real life? [Music] For 25 years, there really wasn't any progress But In 2013, the legendary puzzle designer This piqued the interest of many hypercubers, It looks similar to the view of 4D cubes in MC4D. The roadblock cube caught the attention of Melinda Green, crow enthusiast?? Anyways, Melinda saw this puzzle, which inspired of 3^4. This is because a 2x2 in any number of dimension is So a 2^4 would be much easier to build than a 3^4 Throughout 2013 and 2014, Melinda got in contact possible mechanism for a physical 2^4. She sent him this diagram of the rotations of the puzzle. But after much thinking, neither of them could Melinda then spent some more time thinking with an interesting solution. After an initial test to see if a symmetrical created this rendering. The &quot;ah ha&quot; moment came when she realized than 2 twisting planes, allowing for scrambling. Back then, most hypercubing communication And Melinda made a post explaining her discovery, 2 years later in 2016, Melinda was watching magnetic dice Rubik's Cubes. It inspired Melinda to use a mechanism purely And in February 2017, she built the first prototype. [Melinda] Hello folks, Melinda Green here with great news [Melinda] I've implemented my 4-dimensional Rubik's Cube, my 2x2x2x2 [Rowan] It was glorious! The first ever physical representation of But, it had one major problem... As you can see, if I do turns like this, the the rest of the colours. This essentially means that the puzzle isn't able to For analogy, that's the same as if the 2x2x2 See how the red and orange stickers aren't So it's not able to reach all the states that it should have In order to fix this, we need to find some sequence But this turns out to be impossible if you're only We really just need some way to rapidly same state, just 4-dimensionally rotated. Finding such a sequence was a maddening task, as the gyro algorithm But there was another problem! Former hypercuber Matthew Sheerin pointed wouldn't work after a gyro So to fix this, the amount of magnets in the The 2x2x2x2 was finally working, and a second printing from a company called Shapeways, 6 of them being standard Rubik's Cube Anyways, Melinda then showed her creation co-founders of MC4D, but he said that And apparently he called it a "pollution Yikes. Melinda mentioned this on the mailing list, Controversies aside, it was finally all working! The first 3d-printed puzzles were assembled, And Hall of Fame was Bob Hearn. Melinda made a video fully explaining the has over 50,000 views! In April 2018, there was an event called the Roice Nelson, the guy who made the MC5D and as it turned out, Erno Rubik was too! And Roice just happened to have a 2x2x2x2 with him Now it was reported that his only comment was and that only his original invention is important". Absolutely based. A month later in May 2018, a YouTuber called Cuberly, formerly known as Haribo41296, made some videos about His 3 videos now have over 100,000 views to a bigger audience than ever before! And because of all this recognition, many pretty expensive due to the costs of 3d Fast forward to March of 2021, and that's when I actually remember watching Cuberly's 2x2x2x2 at the time and I just thought it was like Anyways, I found out about MC4D and I downloaded the program And made a YouTube video about my progress and process of solving the puzzle the... the 3x3x3x3. Then I joined the mailing list, but didn't really made a Hypercubers Discord server which you can join from the... from the link in the description And the server now has over 300 members, there's some really good conversations on there So you should definitely join if you're interested in that. And it's also important for the plot of this documentary too Anyways in 2022, Melinda succeeded in getting the This means that they would no longer need over $200 to just under $50 dollars. This newest version feels super good it feels just like a high end GAN cube. Like the plastic is just super nice So you can check out Melinda's website in the description below to learn how to buy one of these things. The 2x2x2x2 is an amazing puzzle, but little One mysterious day in December 2021, Melinda with 3 layers of the 2^4 combined, and jokingly These types of puzzles are called hypercuboids, Ultimate program. In addition to the 16 4-colored pieces, it also has 8 3-colored pieces So as you can see, it's basically just a 2x2x2x2, but with Some sides can only do 180 degree turns, which actually makes the puzzle easier to solve But the question remains: if it's possible Melinda's 2x2x2x2 design? So not only do we have to design a new type of fit with the other pieces. After Melinda posted that image to the server, server, and a very cool duoprism solver) started Her solution was to divide the edges of a And because there are 12 sections, we just That way, no matter how you rotate it, it a 3c piece! But sadly, none of us had the capacity to actually That is, until a mysterious user joined the [Grant] me to pick up my (self made) 2x2x2x2 again [Rowan] Now I was curious about his self made design, He told me that it actually wasn't too hard so I challenged him to build Luna's design And to my surprise, Grant compeletely accepted the challenge, Grant should show his design to the mailing list just to make sure that everyone thought a turn for the uhh... interesting, shall we Grant made his post to the mailing list, and [Ed] I can't see [octahedra] in the physical the physical 2x2x2x2 and represent the cells. [Rowan] Grant then responded with this rendering of the The new 3c pieces end up looking all like cool halves of the octahedral cells. Melinda then responded, saying: [Melinda] I want to be clear that I don't feel that it matters how the stickers, faces, and cubies The only thing that matters is that the puzzle's Of course it's also helpful if the implementation what Grant showed in his unfolded diagram. [Ed] I agree with Melinda's &quot;topological&quot; But the possibility to &quot;assemble&quot; the little essential for presenting a &quot;solved&quot; state My impression is that the idea to be able 2x2x2x2 in the direction of a 2x2x2x3 has way underestimate the uniqueness and phenomenality [Chaotic sound effects] [EXPLOSION] [TV Static] Well, Ed was just plain wrong and despite after a month of designing the amount of magnets in each piece again. Making it the 2nd ever physical version of a 4-dimensional puzzle! The whole community was super stoked about this groundbreaking new invention. Grant was now the 2nd person to have ever made a physical 4-dimensional twisty puzzle He made a YouTube video showing off the legal twists and how it matched the virtual puzzle in MPU exactly. Now all we needed was a gyro algorithm. Back in December, Luna had made some drawings but we had no algorithms to get there. Thankfully though, it didn't turn out to It starts by taking the corners off the puzzle, Then doing these funny twisty moves to the thing back together. And voila, the 2x2x2x3 was fully functional. But naturally, hypercubers wanted to take it to the next level... Just a couple of hours after Grant's initial already wondering what would come next... The obvious thing to do is to just increase closer and closer to the holy grail: a physical But let's not get carried away. Looking at the 2x2x3x3 in Magic Puzzle Ultimate, middle layer. This new middle layer means that we run into again require a new type of piece: the 2-colored piece. Remember Luna's original sketches for the Well there was another sketch of an idea for The 2c piece she drew was in the shape of up 1 sticker, and the centers are the other The problem with this design is that it can't 3D space to make red go to white and white So it was back to the drawing board. After Grant pointed out this problem, HactarCE program) proposed this idea for the 2c piece: After using this new piece, Grant made a rendering A month or so later Grant was ready to start But not before he ran out of orange filament. He ordered more, but it turned out to be a It took a while to get the designs just right, new 2c pieces and 8 more 3c pieces, the puzzle Now it was time to find the gyro algorithm. It starts by removing the middle layer, and involves separating that middle layer and Next, the middle layer it, and then finally the puzzle is reassembled But then Grant realized that some of the 2x2x3 we actually need a 2nd type of gyro! This secondary gyro involves centering a 2x2x3 out like this. And now the puzzle was fully functional. Having 2 new 4D puzzles created in only 4 how many physical 4d puzzles could we build? The next logical step to take after the 2x2x3x3 piece type, the 1C. Grant literally just reused the 4c piece design, During production, Grant actually ran out for them to arrive. Other than that though, the production went 3c and 2c pieces, and 2 of the new 1c pieces, Now given what we've seen before with the the 2x3x3x3 needs an extremely long complicated the puzzle has at least 15 different possible doesn't need one at all! All the moves are accessible from this state, The 4th ever physical 4D puzzle was constructed, goal: the physical 3x3x3x3. Also, this video is sponsored by TheCubicle.com! TheCubicle is currently the best cube store of puzzles, accessories, apparel, appuhrel? I don't know how to say that word So if you're looking to buy some new puzzles, to use my discount code "Rowan" to save It really goes towards helping out the channel So thank you so so much, and let's get on with the video With the expansion of Melinda's 2x2x2x2 remained unmade: the physical 3x3x3x3. A true 4-dimensional analog of the classic Shortly after figuring out all the designs this rendering 80 hypercubies made from 552 plastic pieces. 3,840 magnets. [Melinda] the holy grail. The cost and effort doesn't matter since one It though of course to get it into multiple people's way to improve it. [Rowan] After months and months of effort, Grant completed Okay but wait wait, stop! Stop! Pause the music!! Why the hell does it look like This What the frick is with these sticky-outy bits? How is this a representation of a 4D Rubik's Okay so to answer this question, let's first think 2D space. After some thought, a design like this comes Now let's expand it through the series of Now we can see that the problem happens because we have 1 A 3x3x3 has 3 slice layers. But in 2D there's only room to symmetrically arrange outside like this Now bringing this back up a dimension, we to arrange 3 of them symmetrically, so the To this day, Grant has not scrambled or solved The most that was ever done on it was a checkerboard But then Hypercubers member Akkei made a new was the first person to ever fully solve the The actual gyros are pretty painful to do, But still, this puzzle was a truly monumental In just under 6 months, the community went 5! The holy grail was finally achieved, and hypercubers That's the end of the story for puzzles But during this whole process, there were haven't been built yet! First of all, the hypercube/hypercuboid family So for example, here is a rendering of a 4x4x4x4: Jasper also made a design for a pentagonal would be fully functional or not, because In May of 2022, we thought about trying to where one of the dimensions is always x1. At first this seemed really tricky because we needed found a design that was symmetrical. After going through some more design iterations, The 3x3x3x1 can turn just like a 3x3x3, but a side 180 degrees in any plane. And this design is also infinitely extendable Next, Grant wondered if we could go even smaller One day, Grant was on a walk when suddenly In order to make axbx1x1's into physical moving parts Despite this horrible abomination looking exactly. Valid turns include normal 2x2x1 turns, as And of course, it can be extended into any Next, on August of 2022 Hypercubers member Shmizzad which is like a 4D pyraminx. But Grant wasn't too familiar with the simplex, upon himself to dive deep into the world of Markk started with trying to build a normal After some brainstorming, a functional 2d And then using dimensional analogies, this And finally, hypercubers wondered if it would of even higher dimensional puzzles. Let's start with the 2x2x2x2x2 or 2^5. It has 32 pieces, each of which has 5 colors. And this is a problem because there's no space to make an actual 5c piece. But maybe we don't need to arrange them If we restrict ourselves to a certain set 5th dimension, then we can reduce the amount Let's bring it down a dimension to see if To build a restricted 2^4 in 2D space, something And here, the 4th dimension isn't projected The only colors that will ever be in these And then translating this idea up a dimension, Markk what a single turn would look like. And then finally, Markk made a rendering of a 2^6, along 2 of its dimensions. Now that we have all of these theoretical If any of you watching have a 3D printer then please, please help us make our dreams a reality. Thank you so much for watching , and I hope