Every summer between July and August, I'm forced to stop and wait for the water The roads are badly constructed, When it rains, we earn nothing. We can't move, and so we're always late. The gutters also overflow because of all the rubbish This filth! Even the animals The town of Kaolack is paralyzed. With the rain and the heat, Entire neighborhoods are empty. Hassan is preparing to leave his home. He's come to collect some of his things. It's rained constantly from five o'clock The whole neighborhood has been flooded. It's been like this One last prayer before leaving town. I pray here on my bed. It's the intention that counts. In Senegal, very few people own a car. In order to leave town, The bus station All lined up like at a racetrack. Bush taxis and minibuses even more so during this seasonal exodus. Some are not close to leaving. The travelers The route that linking Kaolack to the town The bush taxis and minibuses race, There are accidents all the time. You're driving one minute, On this route, and the drivers must pay for it. Another major obstacle is Gambia. A small country that stands To cross the border, We've been waiting for a week, Senegal is a country of sweat. Driving at night is dangerous, Here, survival is earned. This is my work. At Kaolack bus station, but this is more This family can confirm it. It's complete rubbish. It's awful. We've been here The driver is in no rush to leave. I'm waiting until the coach is full. Everyone is taking their time, EUR6 is really a very good price. EUR6 is two days' worth of salary. After four hours of waiting, certain travelers Are you going to give me back my money? Why is he shouting at me? He thinks he's my father? Come here! Passengers keen to get on the road The travelers are sure [Senegalese spoken audio] Knowing when It's hard because it's quite tiring, given the distance For Buna, the driver, each journey is a challenge At the wheel of his old Peugeot Break, Not very reassuring for his passengers, There are accidents every day. People cross wherever. They come out of nowhere. There are crashes all the time. You're driving one minute, and the next minute In Senegal, speed kills more than disease. They really drive here without Here, it's not good. The causeway is too high. If you clip it, you'll flip over. Four days after his accident, He and his assistant went Hitchhiking since then, We need a crane to lift the truck, but my boss told me it will cost EUR3,800. Until his boss brings together the sum, the weight is likely Meanwhile, He's eager to arrive At the same time, the minibus finally It, too, is racing against the clock. The journey is hardly underway, and the engine There might be a leak. I'm just going to check something. Without hesitation, Bhalla lifts the hood. Be careful! You didn't burn yourself, did you? The radiator let out That's not normal. When I lifted the hood, Not knowing what is wrong, The driver cools his vehicle, and continues on his way It's still heating up. Nothing seems to quench It's good, let's go. The engine is still overheating. They risk having to give up. The driver is forced Pape, come and get the water. Not great for his passengers. Do you have any water? I'm going to stop at a mechanic. To find a garage in the bush, The place may not look it, [Senegalese spoken audio] One quick glance is enough for this Your brakes are blocked. It's overheating the motor. The roadside serves as the operating room. The brakes must be completely dismantled. The passengers wonder to just take a bush taxi. It's hard, the wait is long. We sit on the bus and wait. The operation proves to be difficult. Rust has soldered the metal. That's because of the floods, After much struggle, [Senegalese spoken audio] When they are put back, They are halfway along their journey. Meanwhile, the taxi has secured its lead, but it still has Crossing Gambia and its river. Last time, This long line of trucks [Senegalese spoke audio] Gambia is a tiny strip of land, right in the middle of Senegal. There is a route but it's endless The Senegalese have no choice. They must cross Gambia, but first they must pay Be careful with your camera. If you film there, they will arrest you You won't be able to go through, The truckers who supply Casamance are the main victims It's because of the ferry. There are two: one big and one small. The big ferry has broken down, We've been waiting here for a week, Three hours wait. It could even be more. You have to give them money If not, you risk staying behind. You have to buy your passage, in a way. Unable to pay the bribe, It's even more frustrating the minibus is catching up. This is Gambia. Arriving at the border, It drives directly onto the ferry. Perhaps this is why The crossing takes 30 minutes, After the mishaps on the road, [Senegalese spoken audio] Sometimes Senegal closes its borders in protest of the exorbitant tolls It's always In the end, Bhalla, the minibus driver, They've only traveled for 12 hours to cover the 280 kilometers He put all the luggage on my plate, I don't know if it was me But if you want to, you can say it was me. Buna's taxi arrives five hours later. Like in children's stories, the first to leave except that here the moral In the race for survival there are only losers. Casamance is poor. Formerly Senegal's breadbasket, Climate change and poor soil management are two of the many explanations All they know is that their land is low and that their village is very far Oh, Great Sharif! Show me the way to meet the President. I have grown up in poverty. If we don't work, we don't eat. My children are called I am pregnant with the third. I'm now at the end of my pregnancy. Oh, my child, I have a debt. A debt to the fields. A debt that she will pay in pain. The work is tough, It gives me a fever. The task is enormous Hey, let go! I'm not finished yet. At the end of the day, the women still find Stop! It's risky, what you're doing. You're going to undress me completely. The day, however, At the end of the day, I'm very tired. But I still have to go home and cook, draw water, and do the washing. Amy supports 15 people. For this whole family, Except that the rice is hardly sprouting, Luckily, traveling merchants pass through This old Bailey is more but Ablaye, its driver, Samba, are pretty confident in their old machine. It's seven o'clock in the morning. We are going to Badio and Kandia, It's in the bush. The route is only 60 kilometers long. In this season, it is a mud track. Their goal is to try which takes place once a week. We do this route mainly to help. Our customers live very far from shops. We serve the most isolated areas. All the better for them because the service We make very little profit, If they miss Louma market, they will have made but whatever happens, they respect [Senegalese spoken audio] This biker is stuck carrying It's heavy, if I don't help him, This improvised taxi also helps out They're also going to Louma market. It makes a change for them Help me up. Push your leg up. Shut the door. They've hardly got going again when Ablaye The tire is flat, We've got a flat tire, A bad surprise awaits them. One of the nuts won't loosen. That's not the right way, The bar is too heavy. Tough luck. They must hurry. At any moment, Tighten it, we'll have to go like that. We're going to try and go like this, I'm going to drive slowly. The truck has been traveling Having to idle along, the three men watch The market will take place and they're not sure they'll make it. Driving at night is very difficult, and it's also very dangerous. There are many ruts With its back tire flat, the truck is much Look, and tell me if it's okay. The crew's fears have been realized. The truck is stuck in a hole. You shouldn't have been there. But you didn't say anything. When you see the truck turning, guide me instead of standing What's that? You're joking! When you see that it won't go, tell me. Let me back up a bit. Are we together or what? I've got nothing to do with it. For some reason, Digging by hand, [Senegalese spoken audio] Sylla decides to go on foot Three kilometers later, finally, a house. Good evening. I'm Sylla, could you lend me a shovel? A shovel? We have a problem with our truck. Try with this. Sylla thinks they're out of trouble, Now a mud trap is closing in on them. Turn a little. The other way. We can't fight this downpour. We'll have to wait for it to finish. Louma Village Three hundred kilometers to the west, everyone fights for survival. For those who find land too cruel, provided that There are hundreds who want to board [Senegalese spoken audio] But on this morning, The weather predicts the worst. When it's too windy, If they take destiny into their own hands, I've seen seven people die here at sea. Last month, seven sailors did not return. The big boats can carry almost 20 seamen and can bring back Suleiman is the youngest member At 14 years old, He has to work, you see. There are a lot of people who work here My parents are dead. That's why I go out to sea, to make some money It's hard work. Once they're in the open sea, in order to attract the fish, Early in the morning, just after boarding, and all around it There are only two life jackets on board, Once again, they appeal to magic. The sailors rub their bodies with a protective potion Navigation is done Just pure guesswork. After four hours at sea... The captain is showing where the fish are. Like an oracle, In reality, A reflection, a ripple. The fish are there. They're already in the net. Well played, there's a lot of fish there. Now it's time He must jump into the water with his hands and feet in order to stop Another sailor joins Suleiman. If he ever gets tired, Hey, you, move faster! The noise is supposed [Senegalese spoken audio] In the water for over an hour, the two swimmers are reaching [Senegalese spoken audio] All that work for this. The net contains only a few sardines. On board the boat, There aren't any fish. They escaped, They must move on. Further off, the captain's eyes Paid by commission, none of the sailors Back in the bush, To lighten their truck, but nothing works. We're at a standstill. We need to put We need to lift the truck There aren't many rocks around. Sylla goes looking for wood. The day passes, and the likelihood of getting I feel completely powerless, I'm not going to be able to sell my rice. Another truck is already at the village. I'm really annoyed. Farmers from the area come and offer help. They know how much they owe the truck, Put the small branch Two hours later, but they're too late. The villagers did not wait for them. They went instead to their competitors. Let's go. I'm going to try and sell my rice. Only one customer but he's not happy. I bought it for my family. Rice is expensive, Now it's EUR1.5 a bag. For Sylla, the bill is even bigger. He's wasted two days' worth of fuel, plus he has to pay Once the wheel is repaired, Sylla leaves It's the hard law of the road, one that the traveling merchants On board the big fishing boat, They've been at sea for eight hours. It's already the fourth time that and pulled it back in without catching a single fish. It's the fourth time [Senegalese spoken audio] This time, the catch is better. [Senegalese spoken audio] Everyone is smiling, Not like one of those good days to be well rewarded for his hard work. Today, the catch just about Paid on commission, Then a final blow of bad luck They're still 20 kilometers from shore. Spending the night at sea no one wants to think about that. The engine has let in water. It's completely flooded. On arrival, the unloading looks like a metaphor A race against the deprived. Hundreds of carriers come We call the carriers &quot;crate-men.&quot; For each crate unloaded, They don't respect queues. Sometimes there are accidents. They drop the fish, The rule is simple, It is a rat race for just a few cents. Even among the poor, there is a hierarchy. The carriers make up the elite. The others pick up the crumbs. I try to catch the fish I put them in my bag. I catch them one by one. Sometimes it works, Okay. This is my work. There are dozens of them The fishermen try What are you doing? Go away! We just want to protect our fish. It's hard work, you know. They shouldn't come close. They have to respect our catch, We steal fish. We put them in our bags, The rope does not stop them. The fray advances. The most audacious of the thieves climb [Senegalese spoken audio] In this economy of survival, As for the fish, they're not so fresh After having marinated they're stored on the beach The fish that we catch To China, Mali, Once again, without giving in to the obstacles