- Welcome to Sidemen Hide and Seek, [crowd cheering] [all cheering] - Where's your mum? - I'm gonna go hide in the toilet inside. - Nice. - And you've got 10 minutes - Ooh. - Okay. - Let me go hide in the toilet. - That is right, ladies and gentlemen, I have finally convinced to come to Guernsey, the So this morning I put them It was quite windy, unfortunately. But they landed safely and now they're at the house of my family. And to make things more interesting and a bit easier for me, we have got two special When I find three people, I can use this RC car with a camera on it. And then once I found five people, I can unlock a heat seeking drone. - Okay, where are we going? - I'm gonna play darts. - You're gonna play darts? - All right, let's play. - Herb, Herb, where shall I go? You've gotta tell me the spots G. Over there, is that a good spot, boss? You're telling me to go to the crack den? All right then, can I have a spud boss? - Can I drive this? Is this allowed? Can we drive these? - 100%. Why is it not f*cking working? - Chip, can you turn me on? - Someone turn me on. - Please, I'll show you - Come here, old man. - I'll show you how good I am. - Where shall I go? Shall I go in this little car? Shall I go in the house? Hmm, where shall I go? I already know where I'm gonna go guys, but I'm just gonna play - I need Harry's dad to help me with mine. - What are you doing with Harry's dad? Getting in bed with him? - Well, I'm gonna hide in his car. - Okay. - Oh. - I believe Harry said - They are unlocked? - Okay, see you in a bit. All right. It is a bit weird having Well, what could you do? I did invite them. And hopefully they don't Can't have someone disrespect my house. - Ahhh! - Oh God, oh [laughs]. - Double tap again You know what? - Yes, Josh, yay! [playful music] - Hope someone doesn't come Like, who would I want to do that? Josh. I've always thought about getting like, absolutely completely - Wait, are you allowed - No. - No, we won't survive. - Okay, oh, this is lovely. Oh, there's a dog, let me not hurt Herb. I'm sorry mate. - All right, here we go. Under I go. I need you guys to like rearrange it so it looks proper once I'm in it. Oh, it's a coffin. It's cosy, let's go. - Yeah. - Ready? - Oh no, I'm too fat. - No you're not you're fine. - I'm too fat. - Is that it? Oh no. If you can hold that. - Hold up, okay. - Oh, it's done, it's done. - Oh, okay, wait, bring this back. - This is horror. - Oh, my God. - This is horror. I'm gonna die in here. But yeah, have fun guys. - I knew I'd find some fun in here, bally. - 39. - We're playing 301. - No, we're playing 101. - What are we playing? - 101, 101, 101. - Change the toilet roll while I'm here doing the household chores. Look at me. [humming] It'll be fun, look. [doorstop whirring] Well, I'm never leaving this place. - Oi, how's he gonna on this all the time? - Wait, this one's after us. I feel like mine's already - Oh, this is, this is... - We made it off, man. I love life. - Whoa, Josh. - Ah, there he is! - Oh god, careful, - Oh, three dots, high score wins. - Okay. Well, I'm out. Oh yeah. - Okay, it's 20. - Oh, 29. I'd be there in one dot - What's game plan, Randy? - Game plan is to just jump in the hot while they all just sit there. However, I'm gonna make Harry a deal that I'll be on the lookout as well. - Lowest darts has to suck my cock. [group laughing] - Oh, we'll pack the cover over you. - Oh yes, get in the - But if I, no, but what - Don't worry about it. - If he quits... - That one guy I wouldn't - I actually might die though. - No for again, get in this - No, no. It's died! - That lasted f*cking... Josh! - Yeah? - I'm dead. - I'm coming! - I'm dead! - What happened? - It run out of battery. - Okay, it's a game of endurance. Now I can't, you guys can't even see this. But I can't move my head, the clearance, so this is the floor. Floor is here, the sofa is here. So I've got this much head Why have I done this? I don't even need to be here yet. I could have come here - Yeah, Randy, get your cock out. - Oh, it's just so warm This is me the entire video. And when his mum comes home, sandwiches. This is me man, the entire Love that. - I'm back, baby! Oh, it's dying again. It's, oh no, my phone! Ethan! - He's got a luxury house. The fact that he's not for success is why I do not like the... Well, look at it-- - You take after your mother - Oh Arthur, Arthur! - Get in there you f*cking. - I get claustrophobic! - We're going to decapitate Theo! - I really wanna just but I'm struggling to think I wanna do it inside his actual house. Come, come, come, lemme show you. - Okay, the only issue is that But I'm hoping if I just put... Ow I can take my shoes off. - I need help guys, I need help, can someone put me under it? - Ethan, I'm here mate. - I'm already here. - Okay, I can hear people creeping about, I can hear people laughing, - Shoes are off. I'm going in feet first. And then they're gonna put that over me and he'll never see me. - I should put my shoes Shoes are in. f*ck me, I'm gonna get cramp. - Oh, it's a shed. See, I don't like sheds 'cause they're full of spiders, you know? It's very nitty gritty, isn't it? God, it's bit crap for a shed. There's not much really going on. Huh, accountants offshore. Oh, now we're talking. Now we can find out what you money, which I'm sure I a hundred percent believe it. Alright, look at this. You can't have a pull up bar there's no room. Hold the phone, ladies and gentlemen, that's a great spot up there, isn't it? That's a real good spot. Am I falling through that roof? - The problem is, the trees There's no no coverage. You're not getting well hid at all. So even if I climb up on, I'm so easy to spot, I'm regretting this already. - I don't want to go up there, Is it not, is it not just mad obvious like there's a hole in the roof? - I think everyone would be like, how the hell did you get up there? No they wouldn't, you're This is my next, that's my plan. But I'm gonna keep searching. - Hey! it's not even open. - Okay, I might go in. - I wanna try and get above I need help, I think. sh*t, man, this is difficult. My difficult day. - This isn't gonna work. I have to see what spaces I can fit into. - Okay, I've been sat here I think what I'm gonna do right, is just do a general Just check all the obvious spots. I'm not gonna waste too really deeper places. 'cause then I'll just waste my time... And they will be running around So I'm gonna, yeah, just do, try and knock off a few people and then we will start really looking. It's gonna be tricky, this, although it is my house, all the good spots. - What's that? I could go in there. I think if I go in there and do this, I've got an outfit for this. - I need your help, can you help me? - It's hurting my ass, mate. Oh, what have I found down here? I'm in the middle of Oh my God, I've gotta try this. - Ah! - What the f*ck are you doing? - Yeah boy! Well, it wasn't as fast as I thought. - Well, that's 'cause - You ready for this? - Oh that's so anticlimactic. A little bit like me in the bedroom! - You want me to block the door? - Yeah. - Not too much. - No, I'll just put - Okay, is there a corner to sit in? - No, there's poles. - He can hear me. I don't think this is it, this ain't it. - This is not gonna work. - Can you see? That's f*cking sick. - He said he can see me. No, that's good's. - It's such a sh*t spot. Gimme the slippers. I'll put them on my feet. - Take that. [goofy instrumental music] - Vehicle reversing, vehicle reversing. - All right, we're about to go and hide. - I could lie in this little thing? - You could? - When he's here, his attention will be on me. - Yeah, but I think he'll still see me. - I'm going for it. I should have taken this more seriously. But I was enjoying the go-kart too much. - I'm thinking up here. If I'm gonna do this, I think I'm going to put my camera to make it up. Oh my god, it's so dark up here. It's actually really but I'm gonna have to cover myself well 'cause it's empty, so - It's so dusty, man, Oh no. Will it hold my weight, I don't know. sh*t, I nearly died, oh my god, I'm gonna die, I'm gonna die. We're gonna sack that off. [intriguing music] Oh hi there. I was trying to get up on top of there. - Could you not? - This is a shout. - Too easy, but I want to I want to get up there. - Have you seen Randy? - Yeah, he's supposed just to tubbing. I respect it. - We're using Randy as 'cause he's in the hot tub. Hopefully he'll let his and walk past me. - It's a bit of an ordeal innit, mate? I can't really find a spot, this is normally my jam. I've got it, back up, what's in here? This is a bit lame, innit? I'll go onto the roof. Wait, I've got it, can I go onto the roof of the house? - Aha! - You little bastard. Wait, is that gonna be allowed? If I go onto the balcony, can I? He's already got the idea, someone's already doing it. f*ck! What the f*ck is Randy doing? - Josh is in that thing right there. - You f*cked it, you f*cked it Chip. - There's nowhere to go, there's literally nowhere to go. - I'm stuck. [comedic music] Yeah boy! Yeah, boy! If Harry asks, I was not here. I'm gonna go hide now properly. So far, I've no hiding Oh, someone's in there. Ah yes. This is where I need to be. The gym. Why does it sound like someone's upstairs? Who's up here? - Me! - How? - I just climbed. - Actually how? - It's empty up here for it. - No, I'm not trying to - I don't know what will happen. Oh my god, my bollocks, I'm gonna cry, I'm gonna throw up. I'm gonna completely folded it in half. f*cking hell. Oh my god, goodbye. Mate, even that makes noises. - f*ck now I need a pillow. God, I look pretty fat like this, don't I? - Everyone's struggling, for hiding spots. In theory, it's lovely, We've flown to Guernsey for this. My first time in Guernsey, still walking around, I think Vik's got a quality spot. - I can't do this, man. I can't do it. I can't do it, man. This bar is just crushing me. - Don't worry about it, you were built for times like this. The day you plant the seed is not the day you eat the fruits! Your commitment to the game has dwindled, you need you don't wanna grind for anymore. - Chip, find a bush, hide! - Is he coming? - I think so! - Going to my spot! Ow, my ankle! - Oh my god, Simon and Chip are running. I've got a feeling that Harry is coming. People have to get up here to put the roof on, don't they? Like in the grand scheme, what am I doing, why am I such a pussy man? - No, f*ck you, Danny. Chip, f*ck off. - No, he took my spot! - Who's up there? - Arthur. Go up as well. - f*ck it, help me up. - No, Chip, there's no room. - There is room, I'm going up, I'm going up. - Chip, don't come up here! - We can chill together. - Get your own spot. - Wait, I'll be the step, wait, wait, Chip, wait. Get down, get down, use me to get on to - Yes, Danny, go higher. Yes, now do a pull up, stand up Danny. Yeah, boy. Yes, boys, thank you! - We're gonna hide out as to that one. My back up option was to climb a tree, I don't have anyone to help me or film me while I climb, I'm going up there, I'm gonna put this in my pocket and I'll be up there in a sec. - Are people still moving? That's a mess, it's a mess. It's a shambles, we're falling apart. - I might just find a bush. And just be in the bush, I got twigs up my asshole, I'm trying to get right in the middle and I put these on and - Do not put that f*cking there. He's put the step there, it looks obvious. - Oh you're joking. - No, I'm praying on your downfall bro, I hope she leaves. - Three, two, one! All right, let's go! I'm ready! Let's go. I didn't like it in there you know, I felt quite claustrophobic. - Tiny little toilet. - All right, so here we go. I said my plan is to of the whole area, see straight away. Bang, that's an obvious in there, okay, in my bathroom. No one would have hidden in here. The cupboards, if someone cupboards, off the rip, 'cause this is so obvious. All good, all good. Hm... - Wait, Danny is not hiding, what is going on? - Why didn't you go to the chicken coup? - I have a severe phobia, I got bit on the ass by a and I've never gone near them since. Oh my God, someone's in the hot tub. Randy, no f*cking way. - Don't bait me out. - Are you out? - No. - Holy sh*t, that looks like, is it hot? - Yeah, it's warm. - We'll do the house first though, and sweep of the garden first, let's go. All right. Hello, oh Jesus Christ, - Randy's in the hot tub, Randy's in the hot tub! Randy is in the hot tub! - Danny! - He's in the hot tub! - Danny has been found first I think. - Danny Aaron's f*cked it. How am I not the first one to be found? - Harry, don't catch me and I'll tell you where four people are. - I want to find them I found you. - No, you haven't. - I found you. - You gotta touch me, mate. - I don't have to touch you. - For f*ck's sake. He's in the f*cking hot tub. - Randy? - So are you, what are you doing? Hello mate, you've been found. - For f*ck's sake, now what? - I'm not gonna get caught that quickly, I'm enjoying my viewpoint, I can see the whole garden. It is quite cold though, - So what do I do? - I don't know, you just go home. - I'm in a different f*cking country, I cannot go home. Harry, do I help you? - Yeah, go have a look give me some information. - What an awful day. - I've literally walked out of my bedroom and he's right there. Okay. - I can see him right now, he's at the bottom end of the garden. I look like I'm throwing Surely he gets Randy. He's gonna get Randy. - I need to poo. I really need to poo. Why did I eat them tuna wraps? Oh god! - Oh Harry's going into the - I managed to cushion to the entrance which is just, Arthur is on Somewhere over there. - sh*t, that's Harry! - Oh Herbert, the fact you're there makes is in there, I think you To be honest with you. - I'm gonna make a run inside. He's gone into the room where Chip is. And now we go. We'll make a move and he started in. - Hi, Simon. - He'll never think. - Simon! - Back in the room yourself? Okay. - Hm, okay, right. This is my dad's like shed area in here. I feel this would be... I mean there's not really is there? - He's focused at the bottom garden, he's not seen Randy yet. He actually hasn't seen Randy. Randy wasn't the first to get caught. - What's that? - You're not even last? - No, I know. - Behind there, no... - Harry, I'll let you in a little secret. - Go on mate? - No one's in here. - No one's in here? Do you wanna feed the chickens with me? - I have a phobia of chickens. - Lets beat the phobia. - No, no, I have a severe phobia. - You have a phobia of chickens? - One bit me on my ass when I was three. - Come and watch me feed them at least. - I'll watch from a very safe distance. - Okay, that's fine. - They are f*cking terrifying. They're fat as well. - They're not fat. - They are fat. That one's fat as f*ck. - Look, chickens, there - I wanna stamp on their neck. - What's wrong? - They're awful. That brown one as well, especially. - Where are they, hello, fella, come on. - I think Harry knows where we are, but he's pretending he doesn't so he can save us and look good later in the video, he's seeking validation. My neck hurts, I'm also by the way, like got a - Go get some food over here. - All right, I'm going in the hot tub, Sack the day off, flew all just to play hide and and Randy's still not been f*cking caught. What's the point, man? - Okay, I'm in the tree, but and I'm like stuck in is just over there feeding the chickens. Don't really know what I'm doing. I hate it here. - Back when I was a child, ghost story, boys and girls, many moons ago. There was a young... - Okay. So I'm gonna leave down there for now. I'm gonna do a little sweep up this hot tub. - I left the door open which I know sounds stupid but I feel like 'cause he'll think no one's gone in, they would've closed the door. - I wish there was a chair I'm too old to be playing Is anyone else in the house? - I don't think so. - Simon's behind you. - Excuse me. - I'm getting a cough up here, f*cking getting a new strain of COVID. - Yeah, imagine this is asbestos. - Yeah, it probably is. Are we gonna die? - Yeah, kind of like, this is lung-cancer causing material above our head. - Smells like a decomposing body up here. - That would be the victims. - Imagine we just found out Adrian was a serial killer. Adrian! - This would be the greatest - It would be a great Sidemen Sunday. - I don't know if you can tell, everyone, but I'm gradually sliding I don't trust Danny Aarons one bit, man I don't trust Danny Aarons one bit. - Look at the bait I am, because it looks like I'm really a bait, but no one turns, oh Harry's coming. - You're f*cked. - Why? - You've not been caught? And I have been. - I'm not last? - You're f*cked. - The games the game. - Oh you weren't lying? There is someone in the hot tub. - How's it going? slacked it off? - Well, I'm hiding. - You're hiding? - I got a proposition to make to you. - Okay. - I'll just sit from here. - You wanna join my team? - Yeah. - So I found you then. - Okay, seems like Harry has gone away. I am wearing the right colours for being in the tree. I have the camo, but I through there behind me is pretty open to the rest of the garden. So I thought there'd I could like hide in the leaves. I'm gonna try and go into so I have to climb down and stab myself with all these branches again. So we'll see if it's any better. - Can we turn the f*cking - It's not even that hot. Sorry, it's probably just my body heat. I don't suppose you have do you pal? - I got a big black blanket. - You got a big black what? - Blanket. - They fact I got Danny first is mental. I feel bad for you, cause get in the hot tub or what? - No, he doesn't need help. - I am not a fat piece of meat. - And I saw Randy, so I - Yeah, fair enough. - You're a good sport. I would do that anyway. If he was caught. - Let me know if you - I know of a group of people... - Let them do their thing, that's fine. - I dropped my phone and it's cracked. - Is it cracked? Oh my... - It's the worst day of my life. This is the worst day of my life. - Harry's coming. - So let's go inside. - Okay, he's going in the house, we're actually good. Oh my god, we're fine. - To be fair, I only and I can activate one - Chat, chat, listen here, chat, my battery slid down the roof, bro, my battery slid down the roof over there. f*ck. - It's not looking good, bro. He's got two people, no one's in the house. - This is not good for the old hip. Oh my god, I can see daylight. What am I doing? In a boot of a car. - This is actually lovely. - Yeah, yeah, shoulders in. - I can't really reach. - Can't reach? At all? You gotta reach yourself. - I can't, 'cause your legs are there. - Go on over them, what the f*ck. - No, that's gay. - Hm, no one would have gone Tobi is the kind of guy No. - That's cause I left the door open. See? So. I'm going upstairs. I feel like this. Oh someone's shoes are there, does that mean someone's gone upstairs and been polite and left their shoes? Could be a dead giveaway here. - Those are my shoes. - Now, this is my brother's room. There's not really many No. Goodness me. All right. I thought it'd be easier I'm slightly worried by All right. Let's go with... Here. No. I feel like people aren't it feels like it's gonna be a - You gotta check though. - Oh yeah, no, to be fair. I didn't expect anyone to be in there. However, my parents' room could be a spot. I'm gonna check the cupboards. Is that, no, I thought that was someone there. Okay. Bang. No. Bang. No. Well, I'd say that would've and I would've found So it's not. There's no one there either, under the bed? You can't get under the bed. - He might find Ethan. - Let's do a little So... Look at this lovely spot, try and look out for two heffa lumps in the hot tub. So I'm gonna check that I got my suspicions of that gone on the roof around here. - sh*t. - Oh it's worth a check, isn't it? It's definitely worth a check. - sh*t, sh*t. - Right. - I can't go anywhere. - I'll give it a minute, once the FPV drone is here. Or do I climb up on here. - I can see Harry on his he's climbing, he's climbed back over. So I'm on the same height as him. - I have a slight problem of this tree because every that I climbed up on has snapped. So I am actually stuck in a tree. Me and Harry got stuck in before and I feel like Harry to look up a tree as well. He's an outdoorsey kind of guy. - No this, I feel like this is - He's left, he's left, he's left, I don't know where I could go. - All right, we'll leave this for now. - I'm literally just awaiting my death. - I'm gonna investigate but I need to look for the drone. Okay. All right. Okay. Let's have a look here, all right. Yeah, I am severely worried I've got here. - He's just walked straight past me again. - Is anyone in the back of this? It's locked, okay, fine, fair enough. All right. The back seat of this could be a move. [laughing] [energetic music] The back seat of this No. I just don't feel like anyone would risk. Oh my god. Oh my god. Who is this, hello! Yes! Yes! You poor fellow. - No, wait, am I the first one? - No, no, you're the third, you're the first like real one. I found Danny as I and Randy's in the hot tub. Oh god, that's a horrible sight, do you want a hand? - Oh no, I'm stuck in the come and help me. So who put you in here, you must've been in cahoots. - Arthur. - Arthur, okay. - I sort of did the majority I think I'm quite talented for it. Is that it now, I'm just done? - Well, you can explore around, but yeah, you've been found now mate. Which actually means I found three people so I can use one of my secret weapons. See you in a sec. [upbeat music] - Now he's got three people, Theo in the boot of the car. Theo in the boot of the car. - Oh my god, he passed me again. - Okay, it is time for the car. Oh this is so sick, this is so cool. All right, I'm gonna go sit over there. All right, I'm locked in, I've got to find someone now. Oh sh*t. All right, let's have a look, I've got to try and spot people here. Right. Oh yes. Oh no, it's out of range, - I've been hidden here it's taken its toll on my back, I'm not at an age where with my body. My nose is kind of big, innit? [comedic music] [leaves rustling in the wind] - It's so windy, this tree is swaying. - What is in this air? - Sacrificing my life for Sidemen videos, this is what I do. Just for there to be three comments like, who the hell was that guy in the attic that said nothing all video? - Let me tell you one thing, if we died, not a single Sidemen member cries. - I think Harry sheds a tear. - I think Harry will put saying rest in peace and that's all they care. - No, bro, I don't think I think he just feels moved. - Okay, yeah, I can back that. - He feels feelings... - He doesn't really post Vik posts an RIP post, but - Yeah, Freezy does a whole pod, fellas loaded, exclusive. - Yeah, just to make money off us. And the rest just carry on with life, don't give a sh*t. Why don't we test it - That would be a good video, you know. - Okay, come on, so there's I don't think. Someone down here maybe, oh wait, is that someone on the slide, wait, wait, is that someone there? No, just the slide. - I'd kill myself to see what the boys. - Fake your death, getting your family, holding the funeral. - That's f*cking sick. You'd get cancelled. - Shh, shh, I hear him. - There we go. Oh I've just crashed it, I've crashed it. I've crashed it! No! I thought this would be way Wait, wait is that, oh my god, wait, the go-kart, someone was here. - He's found the go-kart tracks. Little does he know that me and Danny drove those things around like crazy. - So someone's driven Ethan and they've gone on the zipline, but is there someone around here then? Hello. It's out of range, f*cking hell. - It's a nice house, you know. I feel homely, I missed that homeliness. I'd love to be a part of their family. - They could be conning you there, Harry, they could have driven it - I think that's what's Right, we're going back, come on. That's a cameraman. That's, it is a bald man. I thought I'd be better at finding people. There's no one on the thing. All right, let's go. Hello Herb. Oh sh*t... Sorry, has the thing come off it? - I think I've got away with it, because he took the car along the floor. He wasn't looking up. I'm actually quite high in this tree. I didn't realise until All right, we survive for now. - You actually really - I give anime watcher vibes. - You'd be that guy in school at lunch-- - Excuse me, I'm actually a Discord mod. - I'm the hall monitor. You're not supposed to be here - I [mumbles]. When do you think we'll grow up? - Never. - Never, okay. - Impractical Jokers, they're like 50 and still doing this for laugh. - That's true. - I thought I'd be Maybe like in here somewhere. - Oh, you going off road? - I'm going off road. Looking in the woodshed. Okay, one sec, I'm gonna go, I'm gonna go and get One sec. Boys, can I ask you as a favour? Can you give me a vicinity - I mean, what's in it for us? - Well I can, I'll bring you some food. - What food? - I've got sandwiches or sausage rolls. - All right. - Down the bottom? - I think it's not fair but I'll take some, I also saw Vikkstar-- - Yeah. - Running this way, over that way. - Over that way. - Yeah. - All right, let's have a little All right. I'm hearing murmurs of Vikkstar over here. Come on. There's gotta be someone around here. This feels like a good Come on. Be a person here. No, there's no one there. Oh, for God's sake, all right. I think you're near someone, you know. Oh, oh, oh, I see feet, I see feet. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Who's there? Who's there? Yeah, oh my God. Oh, hi. - Wait was he in there? - He was in there. I saw his feet. - Josh, you were in there? - No way. - That was horrible. - Yeah! Oh that is grim, there's spiders in that. I don't know. - Oh my God, we're fine. - Hello? Has he checked the roof yet? All right, okay. I'm waiting for him to, but I'm waiting for that. - Probably after he - Okay, all right. Shut me back in. So f*cking warm in here, man. So uncomfortable and so warm. - Oh man, you gotta try this by the way. This is so fun. - Yeah, I'll give it a go. - Can I try that? - Yeah, yeah, have a go. Right, I'm gonna go on the hunt now. All right, see you a bit, boys. I'm actually so happy I properly I was like, oh, this a But I would never have seen his feet. You know, I wouldn't Righty hoe. Behind here is where I would go. But there is no one here. Interesting. Must have gone up in this bush. No. All right. This is the spot. This is the hangout spot. Play a bit of dart. That dart board has been used. All right, I'm gonna make a bet right now. If I don't find someone up there, then you can use the code Harry, for a 20% discount on Sidemen clothing. Yes. All right, but I'm gonna [laughing] Ow! [mumbles] oh it really hurt mate. No, I'm gonna go and have a look. This is where I would hide because there is cupboards, So let's check out this one first. Cupboard. Cupboard? No, oh, there's some, there's a vape and some vodka. Who's been doing that? This is an undisclosed person's room. All right. In here. Okay, right in here. Okay, that's bamboozled me, 'cause this is the place I would hide. Right, okay, well see, My head hurts. Oh wait, there's this one as well. No, it's just like baby stuff up here. - Got any games on your phone? Actually, I'm like an orca by the way, actually I'm so orca-y right now. - Ah, ah! - There's Theo, I see you. [laughing] No one has any idea I'm here. - Probably it's gonna break, I know it. Oh this is gonna fall apart. - This is me, Danny, - No. - Okay, is it both of you still? - Just me, Arthur. - Okay, let's lock in now, Harry, 'cause it's getting a bit dodgy. Right, I think where Actually people would go inside now, let's go sweep inside, with pace actually, that's how I'm gonna get 'cause they can't run away from me now. Did someone go into my room? Back into the original spot? No, no. Upstairs. Do I go back up there. Yes, I'm going back up there, yes I'm going back up here, I'm going to find someone. Shawn. - Yeah? - Could you get the FPU and the FPV up? Yeah, I'm gonna go climb on the roof. [dramatic music] Quick sweep. Make sure no one is having me on. No, there's no one there. The bathroom, again, no. One minute, okay I'll look until then. I think this is the one. But no one's gone there. I've already looked in there. Okay. - Oh my god. He opened one of the wardrobes, I think he's about to go on the roof. - Are you sure they're - I put my head, I banged my head on the f*cking ceiling. I went everywhere. - If only someone could help him look. Who could help right now? Theo could help, Danny also could help. Could I help? Don't be silly, no, guys, don't hate me in the comments. - I'm in Harry's cupboard now, he just checked this room so I should be okay. I think it was a smart move, 'cause when he comes downstairs he's gonna go check that toilet. I am sweating my ass off. f*ck, if he's gonna find me, I'll be so, so sad. Just f*cking get on the get on the roof. - Okay, I was meant to do this earlier, but the drone wasn't working, so now I'm gonna check the roof, this, is, if anyone's hidden here, I respect it, 'cause this - What are you doing? - What do you mean, I'm Okay, that's cracking. That doesn't sound good? Okay. Right. Okay. Okay. There's no way someone's gone up there. If they have, fair enough. But I don't even wanna Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus. Can I even see up there, I can't see up there, there's no way someone's gone up there, it's not possible. Oh this is horrible, I There's no one up here, I thought... Oh Jesus. Oh Jesus, oh Jesus. The roof, no, no, no! - As soon as he leaves, I'm going out. - I'm sorry, dad, I'm sorry, dad. Okay, so there's no one up there. f*ck sake. I'm actually having a proper stink here. - What the f*ck is going on? Danny? - I can't help you, man. - I'm really having a mare here. All right, I'm gonna check the store. By the sounds of it, you It's obvious you should - Oh my god, that hurt so much. Oh mate, that was so uncomfy. I could hear him, no one's up here, right? Did he try and go on that one? - He started cracking the tiles. He is quite big. - All right, Theo, do you wanna race? All right. so where's - Around this building and back? - Are you racing or are - I'm really struggling here, you know. Could you do me a favour, - Pick him up? - Herbert. - Does he like getting picked up? - You want a treat? Top marks to Behzinga, Ethan Behzinga Payne, 'cause he was up there and now he's not. I have no idea where he's now or where he's migrated to. - Yeah, just grab him and pick him up, you know how to pick up a dog, right? - Yeah, but I don't want to... - It'll be fun if he'll bite you. - All right so we should go-- - Come, come, look, a treat! - He's a smart little dog, isn't he? - He's done it, I'm back, I've done it! Yes! Yes! - Vik, are you still there? Vik, he's moved, he moved. He said he was suffocating. - My battery is down to one, shall I do a tactical battery change. I don't want it to beep and go off. Be right back. We should be good for another I really hope it's not that long. - Go for a swim, dog. - No, that's cool. - Hello. to count us in? - Yeah, yeah, three, two, one, go! - No, no! Yes! Why are you so much faster than me? Why are you so much faster? - Sounds like carnage out there, is Harry chasing him in a go kart? - I can hear Harry. I see you're doing crazy I bet your screen time is gonna go nuts. - Oh no, no, no, he's defensive, he's gone defensive. - Wait, oh no, thorns! - Oh sh*t, I'm going the wrong way. - No! - No, you're so much faster! I'm going full speed! - I got him, I got him, - Sounds like they're and we're hiding in the f*cking attic. - In the pitch black with I think we move. - Just buying a new phone, it doesn't let me click buy now. - f*ck sake man. I'm going to end up going He's gonna end up coming back over. I need to do the same thing. I'm hiding. - You put some kind of hack on this. - This is the pro - Do you want to swap cars? - Oh my god! - It is a lot quicker. - It is a lot quicker. Oh no! I hope he makes a mistake here, I hope he makes a mistake, hasn't got any... - f*cking hell, mate! - Oh no! Oh he's too quick for me, I've got no hope, I've got no hope! - Oh my God, I'm drifting! - I think there's a severe All right, I'm gonna go hunting now, I'm actually gonna go hunting. - Just had to traverse the roof. - He was on the roof. - On that, but then when you went, you couldn't find him. - Is he still on the roof, is he? - I won't tell you that. - Right, I'm gonna go do like Sorry, Danny, you look very bored. - I'm buying a new phone, mate. - I'm gonna go find someone, I'm gonna find someone, I've Someone could have gone in there, but they haven't, could someone be like behind here? Like, I thought this [intriguing music] I can hear you. I can see the ceiling moving. I know you're up there. All right, one second. There's someone up here, okay. I'm impressed they got up there to be fair. Okay, who is here? To be fair, they've hidden quite well. All right, I've got to go to go up here. I don't know if it can just make it easy for me, come out, I don't want to be up here. That looks like a person, that looks like a body. Who has done this to you? Jesus Christ! Hello, mate! - You know what's so annoying? We were just about to move spots 'cause it's so hot up here. - We? We were just about to We? - As in we were about to... - Who's we? Who's we? Who's we? - I shouldn't have said that, I'm sorry! - Wait, wait, I can't find them. There they are. There they are! Arthur has done you so dirty. - I was nearly there! [upbeat paced music] - Oh that's lovely, what This is class. - I started thinking that I've flown all the way to this island to climb up a tree and sit here on my own for hours on end. Life has its mysterious ways of working, but enough about me, what about you, what are your goals? What are your ambitions, section, just to put it out there os we can read them and then start. Start on those ambitions, make them happen and I in a couple of months 'cause we'll still be here Climbing trees, how does Nothing does, chase those And I want to know how Harry of finding everyone here, let's find out. - That was a good spot as well. - Oh no! - That's why we were moving so much, 'cause we just basically stood there ready to come down. - You idiot. - Was there any spiders and that up there? - Yeah. - There's so much asbestos, - Is it asbestos up there? wait, I found two people, which means I can use Come on, the heat-seeking drone! - AC-130? - Louis, Louis, give me the drone! - f*ck, Harry is asking for the drone. - I hear Chip's voice, they found him. Which probably means they found Arthur. I don't know how many are left, but I don't think it's many. This was a dumb, stupid - Whoa, whoa, oh my god, this thing moves! Wow! What a lovely little thing, - All right, so how many people are left I got to get? - Ethan, Simon... - Ethan, Simon and Vik? - Vik, Tobi. You got Tobi yet? - No, Ethan, Simon, Vik and Tobi. - f*ck me. - All your branches are Yeah, be careful. Anyway, so this is the normal view, but we're recording in both. Press IR to go into thermal. Whoa! Do you wanna shoot like... He's got a thermal-seeking missile. - How do I turn it off thermal? - The other way, press wide. - Wide, IR. Yes. - That's gonna help well loads! - All right, I'm back in the he's flying the drone. Okay, this is where I haven't I'm looking down by Oh mate this is so class. - AC-130 inbound! Okay, hang on there we how do I rotate it, do I see a human, the trees are kind of blocking my view. - Should be able to see - There's orange there, - Danny, do you reckon you could jump it? - Yeah. - Yeah, go on! - Fast, man! - Let it there, and then just go forward. - Oh that was well close failing it. - Do it quicker, do it quicker. - Yeah, I wanted to let you - I really wanna see someone here. There's the chicken area. There's no one here, man. Mate, this is difficult, I can't see. Oh wait. Wait, hang on, is that a person, is that a person? There's something down here. - Whereabouts? - By the chicken run, - I just see a dodgy face. - That's someone there! Wait, hold that, hold that, hold that. That's someone there. - Harry, they're moving, I got 'em! It is someone, Harry, they're moving, run! - I'm gonna get them, They're in the chicken run, I saw them. He was there, he was there. - Get the camera here, - I saw them on the thing. - Theo, where did they go? - They're still there! - They're still there? - What's going on over here? They found someone on thermal I think. Okay. Thermal could do me in. - Wait, wait, wait, oh It's chickens, I saw chickens on it. That's infuriating, I literally saw them. - This is too good, man, I got prime view of all this, this is class. I'm not even f*cking hiding. I just sat in. As soon as that drone goes - The heat-seeking thing [group laughing] - These chickens! - No one's in the chicken Chickens in here. No. Any eggs today boys? Any eggs today? No. [group laughing] - What the f*ck, that thing is crazy. - This has descended into chaos now. Lads, can I have a hand direction. I'm baffled here. - I actually have no idea. - Oh, oh, oh, I'll snitch, I'll snitch. - Snitch, snitch! - Someone was on the roof. - Someone was on the - Have you checked underneath the garden apparatus? - The garden apparatus, ow! - The garden furniture my friend? - Oh, I haven't no! underneath it? - I'm driving around no wonder Harry doesn't - What is going on in my house, man! - He's busy with that garden! No! - Who's driving that - It's Danny, if it was - Bonk, bonk, bonk, bonk, Danny! - No, no, I'm respectful. - You crashed into him, didn't you? - Your phone again, mate. - It's already broken! [group laughing] [upbeat music] [group laughing] - Gimme the ball back. - The caravan stuff is... [group laughing] - Oh my god! Yeah, boy, and again! Battery's out, battery's - It's already broken, Arthur. - I am still in this tree, it's getting quite cold And I'm very tired. I'm just like, I'm just stood, I'm just stood on a even to sit 'cause of all like these things are all spiky, and they're not really, and But we're locking in now, I'm priced in with this spot, I've committed to this spot, I have to see it out. - Wow, this is sick. Whoah! - You got a clip stream here, Arthur. - What are you doing? [group laughing] Almost broke his leg! - You just crashed it into him! - How can you blame me? - You threw me into his path. - You just got shinned by a go kart. - You deserved that by the way. - That looked so painful by the way. - That's the seventh time - Randy, I need your help. - Yeah, so on a real, right. - There's too much tomfoolery - Hand on heart, Behz was up there. - He was up there? - Yeah, and then when you went up there, he was gone. But when you left, he came back. So he must be in that general direction. - I wanna check around here. - I can't believe Randy is still there. - Randy, are you not like done? - I'm pruney, I'm getting pruney. - Let's go for it, let's - Are we now looking for people, yeah? - Yeah. On the hunt, guys! Right, boys, we need to find people, I've had enough, I've actually had enough. - Oh no, it's raining, Here's where I get tested now, do I stay as it rains? - That's the best time to be in a hot tub. Snowing and rain, best - Yeah, I've never done it before. - Well, welcome. - Oh, the drone's down, drone's down. Yes, yes, yes. I survived the drone, it that's a bit sh*t. - The heat-seeking drone was a nightmare. I've checked everywhere No, I haven't checked there in a while. Okay, come on, all right. There's no one, if someone's got in here, they would've gone in here. No one's done that, I don't think anyway. - Oh f*cking hell! - Oh my god! - Yes! - Wait, what! I checked in here! - I was sweating so much! - Oh my god! - Let me know who it is, - We got one! Thank you, Theo. - That was the scariest - Oh my god! - There's one more left, no, there's three left. - Who's left? [upbeat music] - All right, okay, I'm going top floor. There must be people in here, I've been told by Randy that and then they... So is he like hiding in the cupboards and then going out there? What's he doing? Oh this is infuriating. This is infuriating. - Right, so who's left? - Chip, it's Ethan, Vik and Tobi. Tobi always wins, but I've been told that Ethan is like going on the roof, which somewhere here. This is infuriating. - Who did you get, who did you get? - Simon was in my cupboard, Theo found him. - It started raining. - It is freezing! Everyone else has gone in the rain in the tree, why? Why, man? - Oh my god, man, what is this? - Look, look, look, come here. - Jump up and down. Jump up and up. Jump. - No! Oh no! - Yes, yes! How, where were you? - Why has it started raining? - Yes! - How did you know I was here? - You can see him jumping up. Look, there was Ethan the whole time. The little dog. - We saw you through the window. - f*ck! - All right, get off the roof, you're gonna slip off. - I've been all right, I've - Really? the roof, that and the - Harry, you checked the roof. - I checked, I went and - Good job, guys. - Thanks! - You're doing great. - Cheers! It's always Tobi and Vik, small. - Little boys. - Small little men. - Right, so Tobi is in a good spot. - There's Tobi and Vik left. - Yeah, Chip's a little f*cking rat bag, and he must've seen me down there. - You wanna know, everyone ratted you out, Randy ratted you out, and he'd be like, Ethan is on the roof, and I couldn't find you. - I know, you kept flying the drone and I was like this f*cking bastard. - He was never gonna find you, bro. - I'm sat here watching the drone, like when will it f*ck off? - Please f*ck off, please f*ck off. - We're not snitching, we're not snitching, don't worry. - This was the one I was - Oh my god. - So you were in a cupboard. But I checked here. then I would go in the cupboard, and then when he'd done the roof, I went back on the roof. - How many left? - There's Tobi and Vik we need to find. - Two left, boys! - Right, so it's pissing so I believe if anyone was outside, they would've sacked it by now. So please don't throw any darts. Okay. - Bullseye. - That's not bullseye. Okay. Loads of people asked me, checked up there? I thought I had. But I will check some more. - Yeah, there's two people left still. - Well, we know where one is. - Do we? - Yeah. - What, over there? - Did you? - He's not under there anymore. Or am I tripping? Vik? Where is the one person that we know where he's at? - What do you mean? - Where is, where did Tobi go? I wasn't there. - Don't snitch, are you gonna snitch? - No. He's not in the house, is he? - It's in the house. I've checked everywhere! Where, where? - Cheeky little ratbag. - It wasn't me, bro. - Yeah, you ratted bro. That's crazy. I've just seen one, that is I'm gonna go. I'm snitching, f*ck this. - There's no one down there, mate, there's no one in here. Unless they've gone like behind this. Yeah, there's no one in here. - I feel like I really uncle Randy, because I've honestly not giving you guys anything special, so from uncle Randy to you guys, you know what, this time I'm gonna say, if you're doing well, I And whatever you're doing, you - Surely no one is left in the garden. Is there someone in the woods stall? Possibly? No, I looked in here with No... On the roof of this, no. Oh heavens. Oh lord. The fish are out, that's sweet at least. Okay. - Oh no, Harry's coming. - In here maybe? No, oh god, oh no, sorry! Okay. - You know you can watch you've walked past a person like 20 times. - I don't think I have though, there's nowhere. - Honestly, if Harry finds me here, I'm not disappointed. I'm not giving it away, but I'm not disappointed 'cause it's freezing. - I don't think I've had a proper stink in this video, there's no way. I think people are just I haven't really checked around here. There's the helter skelter, I'm gonna go to the top and try and get a survey of the scene and see what's going on. Can I see anyone? Unless someone is in a bush... I don't think so. Oh my life. Okay, right, down we go. Wee, wee! Nice. Okay, at least the rain stopped. Has someone gone up a tree? No one's gone up a tree. Oh my god, someone has gone up a tree! Someone has gone up a tree! Oh my! Have you been there the whole time? - Yeah, it's freezing! - Bro! - You drove the car up and down here about six times. - Oh my god. - You drove the car up and down here a couple of times. - I didn't think you had it in you to get up a tree like that. - It was really difficult. - That's well impressive! - Every branch snapped so I don't know how I'm getting down. - That camouflage is elite as well. - I know yeah, it's a nice fit. - So Tobi's won? - Huh? - Tobi's won? - No, Tobi has won, yeah. As always. - Classic. So all the branches I have snapped and I just scrambled. - You've been up there for ages. - Did I walk past him? - No, you never did, Theo - And he didn't see you? - Vik's here! - No, no, no, I found him! - Have you got him? - I found him! He was up a tree, he was up a tree. - f*ck! - We were speaking Oh my God, with the camo - Yeah, boy, well done, Vik. - So it's just Tobi left I don't think you'll find Tobi. - Have you not seen Tobi yet? - I have, I don't think - He won though, so he - You're gonna kick yourself when you see where Tobi is. - Tobi is within this house. - Okay. - I'm sick and tired of Tobi wins every single time, you know? - To be fair, I think it's your fault. - How is it my fault? I've been searching, I swear Is he in the shower? I checked... I checked... - Wouldn't it be a pity if he - f*cking hell, man, - It's so good, isn't it? - It can't be. - Bro's going through it. - I went on the drone - This is when he needs - Yeah, yeah. - Because you get special - Activate the tism! - This is so hard. I had enough. - Okay, okay, you know when and went no one would be in this room. - Yeah? - No! - And the door was just like this. The door was there. - No! No! Is he behind the sofa, is he there, is that the obvious spot? No, he's not there. - You're overthinking it. - What you mean I'm overthinking it, man, there's no one here. There's no one here. - It is funny to watch a man suffer. - I had enough of this bloke, man, I had enough of this bloke. - Everybody knows where he is. - Is he dressed as my mum or something? - That's it mate, yeah. - Right, okay. So he's got to be upstairs. - I respect him, mate. - I know, it's horrible. He's not stood in this is he? - Boo! - Jesus! [group laughing] - You haven't been in - The whole f*cking time. - Oh my days. - That was fun! - I'm sweating, sorry. - Damn, I would have - Well done, sir, well That was way harder than - Because no one was helping you, you were down at the bottom of the garden. - They were pissing around on the go kart, no one was doing anything. - I was doing like reconnaissance. - Oh well! - Hiding in sight was the play. - See you in a bit. [upbeat music] [upbeat music] [upbeat music] [upbeat music]