Hey there, guys. Paul here from TheEngineeringMindset.com. In this video, we're about three phase electricity. We'll cover how three how we get two voltages what do cycle and hertz mean, where the sine wave comes from, and how to calculate the voltages. Now, we use the power sockets to power our electrical devices. The voltage from these on where in the world we are. For example, North America uses 120 volts, Europe uses 220 volts, Australia and the UK uses 240 volts. This is the standard voltage set by each country's government regulations. You can look this up online at home if we have the right tools. I'm in the UK and I can read the voltage with my energy monitor. In this case, it reads about 234 volts. It's lower because there but also the voltage Alternatively, I could to take a measurement of this. I can put the probes into the socket and take a reading of 236.8 volts. The readings are slightly different because the multimeter is more accurate. You should be electrically competent and qualified to do this. Remember, electricity is If you don't have an energy these are very cheap, very useful. So, I do recommend you get one and I'll leave a link in for where you can pick As I said, the voltages at our sockets do vary throughout the day. You can see here, I've every five minutes for 24 hours and it varied between 235 and 241 volts. Now these voltages at the from a wire connection from either a generator or a transformer. They come from connecting and a neutral line or in other words, just one coil of the generator. But we can also connect to So two or three coils of the generator. This is typical in large and large appliances In North America, you often in homes with 120 or 240 volts. That is a completely different system and we'll cover that in a separate video. This video is only for three phase. Looking at the different volts from a single phase or Europe, we get 220 volts single phase, or 380 volts three phase. Australia and India you or 400 volts three phase, and in UK we get 240 volts single phase or 415 three phase. Again, these voltages vary and it's unlikely that they We can measure the voltages in You see here, I have a three phase supply going into this breaker. If I use this clamp meter and two, I get a reading of 408 volts. If I connect across phase I get almost the same So, I'm reading across these two phases to get these readings. You can measure between and get the same results. If I use this multimeter and connect the terminals to you see I get a single sine wave. All three phases are producing a sine wave just at a different time. We can see this if I to the three phase system. Here, I connect to all three these three separate sine Hopefully, you can see is a little hard to make out. So what's happening here? Why do we get different voltages and what do these sine waves mean? So just to recap, we when lots of electrons move along a cable in the same direction. We use copper wires because inside of the copper electron in their outer most shell. This loosely-bound electron other copper atoms and they but in random directions, So, to make them move we move a magnet past the copper wire. The magnetic field to move in the same direction. If we wrap the copper wire into a coil, we can fit more copper atoms and we can therefore move more electrons. This gives us an alternating current. Instead of someone moving a engineers instead just a coil of copper wire around the outside. We split the coil into two and then place one at the to cover the magnetic field. When the generator starts, of the magnet are directly doesn't experience any As we slowly rotate the the top coil and this pushes So we get positive values. The strength of the magnetic up to its maximum, whether The magnetic field then starts to decrease and less electrons flow directly between the two coils. Then the South pole rotates in, but this time it pulls So we get negative values. This again increases in and then decreases back is between the two coils. If we plot these values, The North side pushes and as the strength of the more electrons flow up to a maximum point. Then we're leaving the so the number of electrons Then the South pole pulls so we get the negative and then back to zero. This one circuit gives If we added a second coil from the first, then This coil experiences the at different times compared so its wave form will be the The second phase wave form doesn't start until the magnet rotates If we then add a third from the first one, then Again, this coil will magnetic field at a different So, this wave will be equal be further delayed and we'll When the magnet rotates just forms an unbroken three phase supply with these three waveforms. With this design, we need six cables, but we can join them together For this example, I'm going because I think it's easier to understand. With a star configuration, One for each of the three Sometimes you don't need a neutral, but we'll look at that in our next video. When the magnet completes the electrons will have and then all the way back We call this a cycle. We measure cycles in If you look on your electrical devices, you'll see either 50 Hertz or 60 Hertz. That's the manufacturer the equipment needs to be connected to. Some devices are able to like this charger. Each country uses either North America, some of South America and a couple of other The rest of the world uses 50 Hertz. 50 Hertz means the magnet 60 Hertz means the magnet If the magnet makes a full which is 50 Hertz, then experiences a change in 100 times per second, so a positive value and a negative If it's 60 Hertz, then 120 times per second. As voltage pushes electrons then the electrons change direction either 100 or 120 times per second. We can calculate how long it to complete using the formula by F for frequency. A 50 hertz frequency supply or 20 milliseconds to complete. A 60 hertz supply takes 0.0167 Now we saw earlier that the voltages from your plug sockets are These voltages are known as the RMS value or the root means squared value. We're going to calculate that but the voltage coming is not constantly 120 or 220 We've seen from the sine wave between positive and negative peaks. The peaks are actually much higher. For example, in the US, the voltage at the socket can reach 170 volts. Europe reaches 311 volts, India and Australia reaches 325 volts and the UK reaches 339 volts. We can calculate this using the formula, VRMS multiplied by the square root of two. I've already worked these Because the sine wave passes in both a positive and then we get the same instantaneous but they are either positive or negative. If we add these all together So we need another way to calculate this. Luckily for us, some with the idea of using the RMS value. Basically they worked out how much heat an electrical heater could to an AC, alternating current circuit and then they connected it to and increased the the same amount of heat. They then worked out a formula we can use. That being the square root of the squared average instantaneous voltage. I've just calculated what on screen now and you can 170 volt peaks comes out to 120 volt RMS, which is what we get at the plug socket. So now we've seen how to Now, let's slowly rotate the generator and calculate the voltages, which cause the sine wave Let's first divide the 30 degrees apart, giving us 12 segments. We will cover the of these rotation points for Now I'm using Excel to calculate these and if you want a copy of my Excel sheet with all the calculations some download links in the For the video worked example The sheet will update itself, plot the phase wave forms and Again, links down below for that. So we first write out a table and then the angle of rotation in degrees. First we need to convert each segment from degrees into radians. We do that by using the degrees multiply by PI divided by 180. so we calculate the radian and fill in the chart. Now we want to calculate at each of these 30 degrees segments. We calculate the instantaneous using the formula V max, As I said, for this example, and as we calculated earlier, that gives us a Vmax of 170 volts. So just complete that until the table is complete Now if we plot this, showing the voltage at each You can see now how the voltages increases with the rotation of the of the magnet changes, the Now we can calculate phase two voltages and we can do that using the formula Vmax multiplied by sin times PI divided by 180. This end part 120 times PI divide 180 just takes into account is 120 degrees from the first one and then it converts this to radians. So just complete that until the table is complete We can now plot this to see and two and how these For phase three, we need to by sin, angular radians minus So, just complete that until the table is complete We can now plot this to see two and three and how the So this is our three phase for each phase, every 30 degrees If we try to add these because they cancel each other out. So instead we're going to take I'll just show you this for one phase, but the process is the same So, we start by first squaring for a full rotation. Now take the average of all together and divide by In this case, we have 12 segments. Do not include the value at 360 degrees because this is a full rotation. So 360 degrees is back If you include this, you'll be counting the zero value twice. And your calculation will be higher. Now we take the square This gives us our RMS This is the phase voltage. That means if we connect and the neutral line, then We can do the same for and we'll get the same value. To get more power, we can We calculate the supply of the instantaneous We then find the average and then we add these Then we take the square You'll see the three phase We call the smaller and we get that by and the neutral line. We call the larger voltage and we get that by connecting That's how we get more Okay, that's it for this video, but if you want to continue your learning, then check out one of and I'll catch you there Don't forget to follow Instagram and of course