Wi-fi on airplanes isn't always great. For the first flight was with American Airlines. I paid $17 for Internet, and most of the time it The second flight I was with Southwest, I paid $8 pretty much ran the entire time. Just took two Delta flights. The first flight had really good Wi-Fi and it was The second flight, the Wi-Fi was not very good. It also wasn't free. It was $9.95. I just got off a United flight SFO to Newark and It was pretty good. It worked well, speeds were I was actually able to watch YouTube, so I just United. I paid $8 and the Internet basically I might even reach out to United for a refund flight. The demands of in-flight connectivity by the faster than any of the providers could keep up We are chasing that at home experience in the We have to coordinate hitting a satellite in space on at 30,000ft, 500 miles an hour. So the coordination of those two things is American, United and other US airlines have been Delta has spent over 1 billion on its planes to None of this is cheap to deliver into the ancillary revenue. But part of that is they really do believe that make passengers happier and hope that they come It's been a disconnected environment for so long. How can this come up in our homes? They're getting more connected. Even our bodies Cars are being connected. Why can't the Cnbc got an inside look at how Delta is updating and why it's so difficult to get good Wi-Fi at Airplane WiFi has been around for decades. Our breakthrough and I really start there was in by Boeing. It was an Internet provided by Boeing provider. It started with a long time ago with a satellite very short amount of time and then was quickly From there, we went to cellular technology. That was the original Gogo air to ground product And it's still in service on some smaller It's really been the past decade that passenger airplanes and the ability to deliver it has come And so that was, you know, started with the air systems. The downside with cellular towers is, you know, You can't see it when it's on the ground. So it doesn't work at the gate. And as you get out of view of cell towers like areas, it doesn't work at all. Satellites give you a broader view of the down at the top of the airplane. You don't have to worry about any of the line of Because of this, more airlines are switching to It's probably only the last two years or so that capacity available that many airlines could large volume of traffic that's being pushed Which isn't to say they haven't all tried, but there's enough satellites in the sky to be able Here's how it works. After passengers board a plane, devices connect to a server or a modem underneath where the This modem is connected to the antenna on top of which talks to ground stations to provide the You know, each one of those spots has a And the satellite is really the defining, the The aircraft technology has gotten a lot better 22,000 miles away with a signal, the width of a The accuracy of those technologies have to be So the new antennas that we're putting on closing those connections. The satellite Internet industry was a $7.9 billion and there are several big players in the space. Viasat is quickly growing and is about to overtake Panasonic Avionics is currently holding that top Intelsat and then, of course, SpaceX and StarLink Viasat provides satellite Internet service for Picking the right provider is a really expensive the airlines. They have to look at what services today, and then also figure out where the system even ten years, depending on what that contract Engine's full power and lift off of ViaSat three. Go, ViaSat. Go, Falcon. Heavy. Viasat recently launched the first satellite of These satellites orbit the Earth from space. One satellite can support coverage for an entire And one of the features of that satellite. The new satellite is expanded coverage. So right now, our coverage for ViaSat is within, Caribbean and in parts of Brazil and in the North But if you were to, say, fly from LA to Hawaii, satellites weren't covering Hawaii. Well, this new satellite will. And so often when it doesn't work, it's because It's because likely we just don't have the expanding. Demand for Wi-Fi has grown tremendously over the and users expecting access to the Internet to be making capacity and bandwidth increasingly The newest satellite, ViaSat-3, has speeds of up compared to 260GB per second in ViaSat two. Busy airports like Atlanta, Dallas O'Hare, the New You get a lot of planes on the ground at one time So you have a high concentration of aircraft and And often systems just don't have enough spot They just don't have enough to serve that demand. So it looks like it doesn't work. It's not really broken. It's working as designed. They just ran out of bandwidth. For airlines, that demand went from supplying emails to an entire plane, sometimes hundreds of movies. You got TransCon flights where take rates can be 6,070%. I was on a flight this week where 118 passengers on board had 166 devices It's absolutely a challenge. We want to deliver Meaning if you wanted to watch Netflix, you can. If you wanted to go work, you could. If you want to scroll social media, you have the be able to provision enough capacity to aircraft So being able to deliver that much power to a When we first came in, Wi-Fi, Internet entertainment were kind of viewed as two separate I think we knew it was happening in the market board. It wasn't like bringing your own device. It's not always bringing your own subscription. So the Internet has become synonymous with The need for more bandwidth on board also means need to be upgraded. New planes, like Delta's 737 Max ten, will come When it comes to using Wi-Fi on a plane, it can age of the aircraft. Most airlines now offer free messaging, but when prices. In our testing of various US airlines, we $29 per flight. A few airlines like Delta and JetBlue offer Wi-Fi all. The airlines that have chosen to invest in Wi-Fi aggressively. You do have the other airlines, They don't want Wi-Fi on their planes right now. They're not doing it. We started way back in 2019 with a team of specifically to go test and theorize the providers on the airframe to find eventually And we did that progressively from 2019 through we led up to the confidence that we had to launch Probably our fastest growing business line is the Over the past, say, several five years. We visited Delta's tech ops center in Atlanta to get being upgraded. Teams already opened up the aircraft to start around the middle of the aircraft to the front then back through all the wireless access points passengers. As you transition through the plane, to go to the lab in the middle, you would switch to the third seamlessly as you transition from Delta's goal is to retrofit its entire fleet by there. The airline believes by offering free customers and in the first month saw 100,000 new There has been a shift of late away from the and more towards the whether it's sort of Delta's money with SkyMiles members and convincing customers. Jetblue has offered free Wi-Fi for years. Since launching with JetBlue in December of 2013. We've now added American Airlines, United Airlines, and most recently Porter and Breeze, Hawaiian expects to offer free Wi-Fi provided by next year. Outside the US, Singapore Airlines 2023. They all say, we think that the passengers will be next time. And we just hope that we can get a in the fare rather than trying to sort of eke it JetBlue has always said it's sort of part of They've been free since they launched, so they But I've yet to see an airline say that with the bandwidth charges, it's a profitable endeavor. The overall airplane Wi-Fi experience still dependability. The regional jet world is definitely the last performance. The ones that are online are still that just doesn't have enough spectrum available. That's going to change starting early next year. But the investment airlines like Delta are putting competition with rivals. We've been really passionate about free Wi-Fi for been there with the capacity in space and the experience at scale. Now we're there and more and more satellites are It's all the time now, and that's just going to The bad news is that's still probably not that The good news is that with more satellites to get to the point where the systems can handle That's probably the hardest thing for us to do, is you can depend on it. Viasat-3. All the things we've been doing and working. It's the technology and the hard work behind it and makes it have all the capacity. And then the satellite itself is fundamentally That's the bottleneck. And if you solve that demand, you're going to make this system work. And I think everyone's going to be joyed instead