- It's absolutely frightening so I'm trying not to. - [Camera Man] Five, four, three, two, one. - This video is sponsored by KiwiCo more about them at the end of the video. No, it broke. - [Camera Man] Steve it was - Okay, so here's the backstory. I was putting together a stage show for kids years ago about polymers, and I wanted to show polyethylene oxide. See how you just tip and all the polyethylene oxide comes out, it self siphons, how cool is that? For the stage show I wanted for what's going on with that polymer. And I'd seen Steve Spangler Look, polymers are really and here is a really long chain of beads. So it's similar and it See how it self siphons from the pot, but that's noisy, isn't it? But I wanted to use metal 'cause I thought they I don't know why they're smaller. So they definitely didn't. But what's interesting is They do this extra weird thing. With the metal beads the before it falls back down. Isn't that mental? So I did the first thing you do when you notice something strange, you go on Google and find out the answer, except I couldn't find the answer. I couldn't find any You might be thinking, hold on. It's easy to find, it's It's all over the internet, I couldn't find anything about it. And I started to think, hold on, have I discovered something? Is this, is this a discovery? I wasn't using YouTube much back then. So I thought, you know, I'll post it. It might be a fun video. And maybe someone will be in the comments. Well, that's not how YouTube Most of the comments were just about what my mum had been up to. There was also some suggestion For example, that I just but come on, that's even By the way, I send one meter to everyone who supports me on But anyway, this video was It was posted on the video subreddit and it got lots of views. It was discussed on the There it is, just a brief discussion, really brief. I actually read the whole discussion. I don't think anyone came So I decided to film it in slow motion to see if I could figure And I asked around, does anyone and Earth Unplugged got in touch, another YouTube channel, they You can watch that video though, I believe my explanation is wrong. So don't pay too much attention to it. There, it has got some pretty visuals. I had all this slow motion And eventually I worked out slow motion footage doesn't help. Actually, that's not fair. One way the slow motion video did help was that it reached a wider audience. It was picked up by the New York Times. It was on Japanese TV. It's been on QI, The King of Random. Like I don't wanna say but this is a three-story by architect Axel Paredes of my beads coming out of a pot. It's no big deal. It's just a three story More importantly, the video at Cambridge university, They decided they were They have an explanation, It's called understanding They've made a video about that as well. I'll also link to that in the description. But ever since then, I thought I need to make a followup video about it. And I just dragged my feet I had other things I was interested in, but then I got an email from I think Biggins and Warner are wrong. I'm planning to make a video about it. I'll send people to your channel And I said, wait, I've been for ages, why don't we So we've been sending back and forth, video messages and I thought we'd eventually where we understood but even now we don't. So we're releasing both videos. We completely disagree on what's going on. And I had an idea, something I've learned if you have a scientific disagreement, it's not official unless you have a wager. - Wager? - Yeah, a wager. So I propose that whichever gives the other 10,000. - [Mehdi] 10, 000? - Cents. - Cents, okay. - Canadian. - Obviously because you're Canadian. - Yeah, sure. - What'd you think? - I think it sounds good, especially since I'm gonna win and it's gonna pay for my lunch money. No, if we can have someone to settle our dispute, it would be nice. So you're on. - I'll go through Biggins in a second, but first of their explanation is the further the chain has the higher the fountain will rise. So I went on the BBC, we went up a crane about 40 and the fountain rose about I won't show you that footage in case it triggers an But also I want to try it for myself. I want to beat that record 'cause at this point I actually I contacted so many people and UK Bungee Club were And they were just like, yeah, Is it all right to spin Do you wanna get a shot see where we are? - [Camera Man] I can't - We're 45 meters up. We're outside the O2, God, Got the River Thames over there and over there 'cause it snakes around. Honestly, I've been so I haven't even thought - Ready to go? - Yeah. - I don't know if that's - [Camera Man] Steve, - Yeah, great. My daughter's just in the car. She's like, &quot; I don't wanna watch it.&quot; - [Camera Man] What are we talking about? - Yeah, I've got a thumbs - [Camera Man] Five, four, three, two, one. - [Camera Man] Oh that is great. - Yeah. No, it broke. - [Camera Man] Two, one. - Here's that attempt again, that's tracking the top of how high it got. It looks to be around 140 centimeters. This is the long one, this is 200 meters. Hopefully, we'll get a bit more height 'cause it, you know, it as it is going. - [Camera Man] Five, four, three, two, wait, wait, wait, we got, and action, go ahead. - Oh my God, that's incredible. That was amazing. I'm so annoyed that it broke though. Don't you use these links to and I guess I just need long length of chain. How'd you feel about - [Woman] You know, I'd be - That was amazing though. I mean, at 170 is the highest I don't think I've seen a So I'm very happy with that. I didn't know those links The force must be incredible on it. They take a huge amount So that, I mean, it The force on that thing. I'm glad that didn't happen that would have been This is just gonna be embarrassing later on my YouTube channel. So the chain broke on both because it actually means that that one meter 70 we measured doesn't equate to a chain because that one meter 70 but the chain broke halfway through. So we have to measure Well, so look, that's So you need to knock 30 centimeters off. In other words, we managed whereas on the one show they I actually think on the one show, there was some parallax issues 'cause of the way they were filming it. Whereas we tracked up with It may actually be that we but we'll never know. To be absolutely sure I with one long piece of So there's no weakness in it. I think I look for a new location as well because well, the cabin was quite tight and I wasn't able to fit into a wide shot. Also, I think I can probably If you wanna be sure subscribe to my channel and But why does the chain go Well, I gave an explanation in the Earth Unplugged slow-mo video and I think that explanation is wrong. I said that the chain leaves the pot with a lot of upward momentum and it can't change to because an instant change of direction is equivalent to infinite acceleration and that's not allowed. It needs to take its time. So it rises up a bit and curves down. But I don't buy that Well, first of all, it Like you don't see the with regular chain, it only Second of all, we're not asking for an instant change of direction The change of direction can happen over the thickness of the lip of the pot. Like this, that's not an and it's the behavior we So it must be something else. Well, we should be able to figure it out by looking at the forces involved, like in this simplified view, for example, we could look at the that's causing the chain We can do that by zooming in and looking at the tension at either end, there's a net force towards I won't go through the derivation, but I'll put it on the screen. The end result is that is equal to the tension in the chain multiplied by that little divided by the radius of that arc. But we also know the on something that is experiencing it's equal to the right mass of the thing multiplied by the velocity divided by the radius of the arc. So these two things must be equal. Instead of writing mass as M we can write it as the mass multiplied by that little So now we can cancel those two Ls but here's the crucial part. We can also cancel the Rs and It means that the radius of curvature doesn't play any role in these dynamics. Like the radius doesn't have to go up when the velocity goes up or the radius doesn't have to change as the tension changes. There's nothing like that. What it suggests is that for a chain moving through its own length the chain can turn through not infinitely sharp, but So long as the chain is strong enough to withstand the tension. And it really does put of the explanation that I The chain doesn't need time or space to minimize the tightness of the curve. It can be arbitrarily tight, it can flow straight over and that doesn't cause any What we really need to in the chain just after it's left the pot, because we can know that We can work it out as the tension up to a certain speed and we balancing the tension at the top and the weight of the chain in between. Again, I won't go through the derivation, but I linked to Biggins And what find is that the is equal to this. The force required to bring And this the tension at the top minus the weight of the chain So these two things are equal, but we already know the tension at the top because we worked it out earlier. So let's substitute that in. Look, these two things cancel out. So that tells us that In other words, the height So by looking at the we see that there can't but we noticed one experimentally. So there must be another either from the ground or from the pot. Experimentally, the before the chain has even So it must be coming from the pot but how can the pot be Well, the Biggins Warner approach is to model the chain of beads We'll discuss whether that's but first let's look at Look, here's a simplified view. You've got some chain that's still at rest and you've got some that is in motion. Look, this rod is about by this rod. The center of mass of the rod is here and it's gonna be pulled from this end. That means that when the it won't just move up it will also rotate. So that part of the ride ends But actually that can't happen because the rods are resting or resting on the bottom of the pot. So instead of this end of than where it was, it pushes And every action has an So what's beneath it pushes back up and then we have our additional force. Here's a great demonstration A block of wood is shot with dead center on the block of wood. And obviously it shoots up into the air. But look, what happens when at one end instead of in the middle, it actually goes higher than when you shoot the block of wood from the middle because Thanks to James Pantaleone of that video, the link to his paper is in the description. Is it reasonable to model the bead chain like a chain of rods? Well, what's interesting it's very flexible, but if you try to bend it beyond a certain tightness, you can't, it becomes stiff beyond So if we look at the look, this corner is at maximum tightness, meaning that these few Again, you can consider You can consider the fact from this end. And so there will be a just like there was So it's not a perfect analogy but the mechanism is still there. Actually, this explains why you don't see the chain fountain effect so With plastic beads you can pinch the chain completely flat against itself. There's no maximum curvature like there is with the metal bead chain. Actually, there's another possibility for how the additional Imagine two rows of beads As the chain is being removed from the pot sometimes it's pulled If the beads are interlocked like this, there will be a kick upwards as the top row of beads is pulled along. That's two possible mechanisms There may be others. These two may be insignificant It would be reasonable to try You know, the pot is pushing up and the chain is pushing down. So in your hand, the than it would if it wasn't It's obviously going to be very subtle and not something you can Also, if you put it on well, that's difficult as well because the mass of the as the chain leaves. I haven't seen any successful attempt to compare the two scenarios. But what if you could remove gravity and remove the bottom of the pot, you should expect the pile And actually you can kind of do that by switching to a horizontal Look, here's a pile of chain on the table. I'm gonna pull it from this end and we'll see what happens And they're like, you can see the recoil of the pile of chain which if there is an extra force there. You can even see the point It's just where the chain is and it moves up and down the At this point, you might where does the extra energy come from? And that's a good question. Often with problems like this, you can look at it from or an energy point of view. And actually it's a from both perspectives. It's a good way to test your working out because it needs to make sense Well, the whole process is driven by gravitational potential energy. The chain starts off and ends up at the level of the floor. It loses gravitational potential energy, and that's converted into kinetic energy. Again, I won't go into the because this video is already quite long and it's all in the paper which is linked in the description. But the upshot is that half the gravitational potential energy is lost as heat and the rest Interesting side note, there where half the energy is lost to heat. For example, pouring or connecting a charged capacitor But anyway, half the energy And the mechanisms I've that might account for the are able to reclaim some of that energy. So it doesn't look like of conservation of energy. I recommend you watch on the subject as well, the but I will just play a snippet from it. This is Martin Warner - We could blend this research project 'cause nobody understood the Mould effect. - I mean, Einstein doesn't named after him. I'm not saying I'm better You know, Mould is a when you're at school. I've always worried about my kids telling people that that's their surname, but now it's like, oh, They go into school And people will be like, &quot;Hold No? And they'll be like, That's how that will go. Right, there's something want to happen as a consequence of this video, will you help me? You know, we talked about cancel out at the start of the video and the consequences of that. Well, another consequence is that you can have any You know, the chain can be going like this through space, right? And it will, the chain will just continue to move through that. And we've seen that actually The chain gets into The pattern remains while What I really want to see is on the International Space Station an experiment with chain. So I want one of the astronauts to have just the chain floating there, you know, and just to pull on one end to see if the chain will If anyone knows how to get the attention of someone on the International The main thing that me and I think there needs to be this extra force from the pot, and he doesn't. You know, disagreement is a So I really want you to See what you think about it. Obviously, leave comments, be civil, come back here and leave And he has loads of great videos. We've collaborated in the past. If you're not subscribed you really should be. Do you think this is more fun than watching daddy - Beads off a crane? Nothing, I've been getting for almost a year now. So I'm really glad that they're KiwiCo put together these projects. They come in the post once a month. Everything you need for the There are eight different for every possible age group. For me, I get these crates because I love to see making and building, like from childhood. And, you know, I think we But two things that the first is it's not just the build, there's always a STEAM angle to it. Science, technology, So for example, you're but you're also learning about symmetry or you're building a robot but you're also learning about coding. The second thing is the replay value. You're not just building Like for example, with this one, there's a puzzle element at the end, you work through these puzzle cards to try and get the little robot And every crate comes with a magazine full of additional ideas to You know, I love the long but it's kind of crazy of formal education for Like we really needed in that period. And I can really Like start your subscription See how you feel when you You'll probably wanna keep going, but for that stretch of time, it's gonna be a great from TV and screens. And you can get the first month for free if you go to my special URL, kiwico.com/stevemould, the link is also in the description. So check out KiwiCo today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe and Todd thinks you'll Who is Todd? (upbeat music)