In today's world you can find all sorts of fast something they try to pass off as Mexican food, but rarely will you find snails on the menu but it seems that wasn't always the case. Just last month in Pompeii, archaeologists revealed what is essentially a fast food restaurant with the and one of those tasty treats was escargot. So today we're making cocleas, ancient Roman snails, and we'll take a look at what visiting one of and see why they had a bit of a seedy This time on Tasting History. Now this Pompeian restaurant called a thermopolium In fact there are around 90 in Pompeii and Herculaneum alone, but it is exquisitely preserved and gives us lots of clues as to what would have Duck, goat, fish, pig, and of course snails. Now we don't know exactly how the snails were served there probably as some sort of stew with other to make a recipe from the Apicius De Re Coquinaria for a very simple fried snail. Cocleas. Snails: Fry with pure salt and oil. Baste snails with silphium, garum, pepper, oil. Nice and simple. Now the snails served at the thermopolium probably didn't have and by the time that the recipe was actually was extinct, maybe. I actually did a whole episode for our purposes we will substitute with asafoetida as far back as ancient Rome. So for this recipe one to two dozen snails. Now if you have live snails that is fantastic. That's actually what this probably would have been but in a lot of places including where I live, live out in the garden we just don't really have a lot iI got at my local fine French foods provider and the same so that's what we're doing. 1 teaspoon of salt. 2 tablespoons of olive oil for frying , and a quarter cup or 60 milliliters of olive oil a half teaspoon of asafoetida, one and a half teaspoons of garum or colatura di alici, and i'll put a link to colatura di alici and to asafoetida in the description, and one teaspoon of ground pepper. So first if you have not subscribed to Tasting and hit that little notification bell so you never In a small bowl with the quarter cup of olive oil and mix it up then set it aside then put a small oil and the salt once the oil is heated toss just take the open part the face of the snail but if you don't, if you are using canned snails they've already been cooked. They've been Either way the process is pretty much the same. After about two minutes pour the basting liquid over the snails and let them cook for another four Now while those saute, let's pour a glass of wine and imagine ourselves a trip to the thermopolium. So let's say you're living in ancient Rome. You're sitting on your couch feeling a little peckish, want a little nosh. Now if you're wealthy you would just have you know your cook whip you up some parthian chicken in the kitchen and you don't probably have a cook either. If you're a plebian or just don't own a villa, then you probably live in something called an insula, or an apartment building for lack of a better term, and so your only recourse is to go out to eat. Luckily just as the ground floor of my New York apartment used to have a wonderful Thai restaurant Though not Thai restaurants usually but Roman restaurants or So that term thermopolia or singular thermopolium basically means a place where hot and the term wasn't really used that often in ancient Rome itself. Archaeologists use it now to kind of describe a whole collection of eating houses. Caupona, stabila, popina, and tiberna were all manner of places that you could go get food. Some were more like fast food joints, some like a wine bar you could sit down and have a meal, and then some had rooms attached like the taberna, where you could stay over for the night. In fact the term taberna is where we get the term tavern, hm. So even if you don't like the thermopolium in your bulding, that's okay because you got options kid. You just take a little stroll down the via and before too long some proprietor will come out like a carnival barker and entice you into their establishment. And really where you end up that Both food-wise, and entertainment-wise because some of these places would offer gambling even though it was illegal or adult entertainment, not that we'll actually discuss that a little bit later. But when it came to the cuisine each place would kind of advertise what they had on frescoes and they Like the Piccadilly when I was a kid, which I thought was a really fancy place because they had a fountain indoors and gave you little Andes mints with the Turns out it was not fancy at all but I still liked it. But in ancient Rome instead of dolia which were terracotta containers that besides those foods that I mentioned earlier oysters, chicken, nuts, dried meats bread and sheep stew. So you got a lot of options, and of course with your meal you might partake in a little bit of wine in fact at the last month they found a wine vessel that had wondering who puts fava beans in their wine? And I'll tell you because Apicius lets us know. &quot;To make white wine out of red wine. Put bean-meal... into the flask and stir it for a very long time The next day the wine will be white.&quot; I really want to try doing that one of these days and see if it works. Supposedly it also works with egg whites out more than dried fava beans. Anyway another drink that you might enjoy is called conditum or spiced wine, and Apicus has a recipe for that &quot;Spiced honey wine which keeps forever... given to people on a journey.&quot; And maybe if you're lucky you're drinking that cup of wine beside a future emperor of Rome for as Suetonius wrote of the great emperor Claudius, &quot; Now pray who can live without a snack, and then he went on to describe to whom he himself used to go for wine in earlier days.&quot; Though supposedly he ended up ordering many of those establishments closed in 41 AD, but doesn't seem to really have stuck because a few years later Cassius Dio writes of Claudius's son the emperor Nero, &quot;He indulged in many licentious deeds both at home and throughout the city... he used to frequent the taverns and wandered about everywhere like a private citizen... although he spent practically he forbade others to sell in taverns anything Now before you ask no he does not go into any further detail about the prohibition of boiled foods even though I would have really liked to know But even with some high class clientele frequenting these establishments they tended to have kind of a bad reputation especially those that had rooms attached and especially As Seneca says, &quot;Virtue is a lofty quality... its haunts and homes are the brothel and the You will meet virtue in the temple the marketplace and the senate house...&quot; How convenient that Seneca spent much of his life in the senate... hm! But it wasn't just the holier-than-thou crowd in fact the satirist Juvenal paints these places In one story about the general Laternus going to an all-night tavern he says, &quot;Caesar - send! But look for your general in some great tavern. You will find him reclining with thieves and runaway slaves. Among executioners and cheap coffin-makers and the now silent drums of the priest of Cybele, lying drunk on his back. There there is equal liberty for all - sharing of cups - nor different couch for any, or table Now if you think just visiting one of these places gives you a stigma imagine what working in one does. The sixth century Code of Justinian when laying out the nuptial &quot;We forbid the marriage of senators with women belonging to the classes... slaves, the daughters of slaves... actresses, and their daughters, the daughters of tavern -keepers of proprietors of houses of prostitution, and of gladiators; or women who make their bodies articles of merchandise.&quot; So the barmaid gets lumped in with prostitutes and actors. D: Now when I read these castigations of the Thermopylae I wonder if they're not being a little elitist, just as I I sure do love a Crunchwrap. Could the people eating in these Well, lucky for us they actually left us an indication of their There is graffiti carved all over ancient Roman structures, but some of the choicest adorns the walls of the thermopolium. Now some are innocuous enough like this bill Some nuts...? Coins. Drinks: 14 coins; lard: two coins; bread: three coins; three meat cutlets: 12 coins; four sausages: eight coins. Total 51 coins. And another showing some patrons to be most admirable chaps, &quot;We two dear men, friends forever were here. If you want to know our names, they are Gaius and Aulus.&quot; And if you are sensitive at all I would stop there. Now I'm not going to read the most baudy of the graffiti found around ancient Rome because it gets description to where you can peruse if you are these and in the voices that I imagine they were &quot;Apelles the chamberlain with Dexter, a slave of Caesar, ate here most agreeably and had a screw at the same time.&quot; &quot;Two friends were here. While they were, they had bad service in every way from a guy named Apaphroditus. They threw him out and spent 105 and a half sestertii most agreeably on whores.&quot; &quot;We have wet the bed, host. I confess we have done wrong. If you want to know why, there That is so not an excuse... Now I do love the rather pithy boast found &quot;I screwed the barmaid.&quot; One of my favorites is actually a Severus: Succesus, a weaver, loves the innkeeper's slave girl named Iris. She, however, does not love him The more he begs, the less she cares. His rival Successus: Envious one, why do you get in the way? Submit to the handsomer man and one who Severus: I have spoken. I have written all there is to say. You love Iris but she does not love you. So maybe some of these places less resemble the Mcdonald's and more the tavern from Tangled but in all honesty with my teeny, tiny kitchen back here it still probably beats cooking at home, this coming from the guy with a cooking show. &gt;_&gt; Speaking of which let's try those snails. :D So after a few minutes you can remove the snails from the heat or stuff them back into the shells for a little Then go ahead and pour whatever sauce is left over on top and serve. And here we are cocleas, ancient Roman escargot. Look at this cool little spoon I got it's like shell mussels or whatever you can use a fork. Honestly, you don't even need to eat them in the shell it's more for the theater of it. It's pretty, but what you do want to make sure to do is eat them right away, because nothing is more Yeah, here we go. You really get the flavor of the modern french escargot which really you're getting nothing wrong with that, but this the other flavors I mean you can taste that interesting asafoetida flavor which is kind of it's not overpowering you're getting more of there's there's a brininess to it because of That said I would stick with the garlic I'm gonna eat most of these but I would rather go with escargot. So make sure to follow me on Instagram and Twitter and even TikTok now where every few days I which are little historical anecdotes that usually don't have anything to do with food, and I will see you next time on Tasting History.