- This is a camera that can see sound. In other words, it can show are coming from. How acoustic cameras work, and what they're capable of is remarkable. But before we get into that, to have a play with one. Here's me playing the ukulele It's interesting that the between coming from my mouth even though sometimes at the same time. And brilliantly, this to a traditional light-based camera. What we have here is an If you have your camera which your smartphone is by default, and you shoot a video of a dim light, then turn on a much brighter between showing you lots to showing you lots of And the same thing is happening The ukulele is louder than my voice. So when the ukulele is being played, the acoustic camera dials and you can no longer see my voice. But when I stop strumming the the sensitivity, and then What's really cool is in a different frequency it's possible to isolate just my voice and ignore the ukulele or vice versa. And actually, this starts to hint at one of the industrial One really noisy appliance (vacuum cleaner buzzing) It just seems like a cacophony of sound. But look at this spectrogram, which is like a heat map of that the vacuum cleaner is producing. You can see that there are a handful of really strong frequencies. With the acoustic camera software, you can isolate different frequencies. So look, this frequency is from the tube of the vacuum cleaner. So we now know that the tube at 400 hertz, and we of the vacuum cleaner produces And all this is really useful information if you're trying to engineer Another cool trick is once you can use something akin in Photoshop to point at and see what just that part sounds like. How cool is that? Thanks by the way, to who supply acoustic cameras in the U.K. Check them out in the description for all your acoustic camera needs. They're not paying me And thanks also to Manny and Zomi and the Birmingham Center for at the University of Birmingham Why would a railway research in using an acoustic camera? Well, here's one setup, track you can identify what and need maintenance. Without this kind of monitoring, about a problem with a in service which causes Like imagine the lost productivity if all these people were late for work. I actually realized that I could test using There's this demo that I used to do for live shows like, for kids where you get an aluminum rod like this and you pinch it in the middle and then with a bit of you pinch along the rod it makes a horribly high-pitched sound. (rod screaming) It's horrible, isn't it? The question is, how is the rod vibrating? Is it vibrating in the you twang a ruler waggling like that? Or is it more like, you know So it's kind of like, you Well, depending on how it's vibrating, the sound would be coming from And you can see here from the very tips of the with a really unexpected vibrational mode where the rod is essentially contracting and then expanding and One thing that's insanely is the frame rate. Like a typical frame rate for a camera is 60 frames per second. That's what I film my YouTube videos in. But when you record sound, at about 40,000 samples per second. And when you translate that's 40,000 frames per second. So by accident, acoustic cameras which means you can do things like film what an echo looks like in super-slow motion. Before we get to that though, I want to explain how And actually this relates to about how humans detect linked to that in the but here's a quick summary We detect where sounds on the timings of sound So if a sound is coming it'll reach both ears at the same time. And that's how we know But suppose there's a that tells our brain the sound is coming from like off to one But actually it could also be coming from over there, couldn't it? Cuz the delay would be the same, or like up there at an In fact, there's a whole the sound could be coming from. And that region is called though technically it's a Here's an illustration of that. The two yellow dots are the ears and here is the cone of for which the delay between So how do you reduce that surface of possible sound locations Well, the human brain has lots But for a device like an acoustic camera, you just need to add more ears. Like here, look, imagine Well, the same sound source based on the delay So now we know that the from a point that rests In other words, somewhere You might be thinking, well we haven't looked at. These two ears make another cone. But actually the way the maths works out all three cones intersect So to really pinpoint you need a fourth ear. A fourth ear would give and therefore three But if I showed all three new cones, that would be confusing. But just by adding one of them, we can see that it passes through the So with four ears, you should be able to and distance to the sound source. So why do these acoustic cameras Well, what if there were two In that scenario, two microphones would receive That's because the sounds would overlap differently because of the different travel times to the two different microphones. That's okay for humans at filtering sounds in But for software, that's a problem. So instead, what the individual frequencies So where a human brain complex wave forms, the individual frequencies and at the two microphones. And it turns out that when you're looking at different frequencies individually, the distance between mics For any given frequency, there's an optimum distance between mics. So by having lots of of different distances between mics, and so you'll be able to analyze more frequencies more accurately. In my previous video I talk about why a high for microphones that are far apart and actually it's problematic So I won't repeat myself, but the link is in the description. But anyway, all this explains from gfai tech has mics If the mics replaced at regular intervals, you would have some repeating distances between pairs of mics. Like all these distances are the same, all these distances are the same. By having a irregularly spaced mics, you cover a greater range How acoustic cameras than I've presented here. Like for example, having more mics gives you but it's beyond the scope of this video. I kind of glossed over the fact that you get depth information So here's a more recent model from gfai tech that The video camera in the middle of this one captures depth information. So when you're traveling around an object, you're basically scanning it. You can then map the and look around it. How cool is that? But the coolest thing for me was watching an echo This is Paul. After the initial clap, on his hands, you start to see around the screen where the The echo itself takes milliseconds, but you can see all this So flipping cool. The echo pattern looks quite in the corner of a room. I'm really interested in the logic behind different business for example, I'm hungry, I don't wanna go out, and food delivery apps. The logic is incredibly straightforward and so is the logic behind the sponsor of this video, Incogni. They offer something that you want, but you don't want to do yourself but it's not food delivery. Why am I hungry now.? Here's what Incogni offers. There are these companies that collect data about you and then shout it onto other people. You don't know who they're selling it to, but you can contact them and say, stop doing that and also delete my data. The problem is there are and they all want to be and sometimes they'll reject your requests and you have to appeal and It will take months to do it yourself. And actually it took Incogni but now they've automated it all. One company has done all the hard work and now we can all benefit from it. So now I can just sign up to Incogni, give them permission to act on my behalf, and they just take care of it. I've been within Incogni so I can show you the progress. Look, these are all the that they now don't have my data. It's a really unobtrusive It just happens in the background. But it's funny, like it's so unobtrusive that I was saying to my wife I don't get any of those from companies that don't recognize who seem to know a lot about me. Maybe the U.K. have changed legislation so that companies can't do that. Oh, no, wait, hold on. It's Incogni, isn't it? Like I just hadn't put, And that's it. You know, it's peace of mind. You just do it. And then that thing that you've done it. The promo on this one than it was last month. The first 100 people to and use promo code science The link is also in the description. So checkout Incogni today.