Today I made Chips and Cheese Fries that can be made and left out. Hello, I'm Yukari, a cookery researcher. This channel introduces various cooking recipes and useful information. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. Please subscribe to my channel Today I would like to make Chicken Cheese Fries that can be frozen and leftover. One will be made with just a regular cheese roll and the other plus shiso leaves. This time I will also show you how to freeze the recipe since it can be made and stored frozen. In addition, I will also introduce a recipe for tartar sauce, which can be easily made in a microwave oven. It is very easy to make. I hope you'll have a great time. Please have a look at it. Let's start with the ingredients for the cheese fries. Here are the ingredients. It consists of white meat, melted sliced cheese, shiso leaves, bread crumbs, flour, egg, salt and pepper. And I will also use oil when frying. I'm going to use melted sliced cheese this time, but you can use regular pizza cheese. Next, I will introduce the ingredients for the sauce. Eggs, onions, mayonnaise, sugar, salt and pepper, vinegar, and parsley. I will make it with these materials. For the parsley, I used fresh parsley, but you can use dried parsley. I also use parsley in this dish, but you can leave it out if you don't like it. Now let's start making it with these ingredients. Let's start with the tartar sauce. Chop the onions first. This can be done in any way you are comfortable with. I recommend that you make it very fine. If you find it a bit tedious to chop, you can also cut it into thin strips. Chop the onion about this much. Then I want to take a little bit of the pungency out of this onion. I'm going to pour vinegar over here. And a tablespoon of water, outside of the quantities. Add and mix this. Soaking in vinegar water like this removes the slightly unpleasant pungency of the onions. Leave the onions like this for 5 minutes. Next, chop the parsley. First, I chop the parsley by cutting off the branches. The amount is optional. Parsley is ok with this. Now crack the eggs into a heatproof bowl. Then, lightly unravel this egg. It's really light, but it's OK. Unwind this much. Here are the onions that were soaked in vinegar water earlier. I'm going to take a little bit of this water out. Once we take the water out, we put it in this together. And let's wrap it fluffy. Make a little air exit and open it up. As is, first heat it in a microwave oven at 600 watts for 1 minute. Heated for 1 minute. Then I remove the plastic wrap. Be careful not to burn yourself. It looks like this now. Half solidified. Let's unwind this once. If you have a fork, you can use a fork. It looks like this now. Now it is still a little watery, so I will heat it again in the microwave at 600 watts for 30 seconds to let the water escape a little. 30 seconds have passed. Then the water is removed like this. It looks like this. This is again finely chopped with chopsticks or a fork, etc. Make it polo like this. Let's add sugar and dissolve it while it's still warm. This sugar gives it a rich taste and makes it very tasty. If you add mayonnaise while the eggs are still warm, the mayonnaise will melt and separate from the eggs. Eggs have cooled. Then put mayonnaise here. Let's also add parsley. Then mix. I mixed it like this. Take a final taste. I think a sprinkle of salt and pepper would be good. Adjust this mixture to your taste. This completes the tartar sauce, which can easily be made in the microwave. Next I will make cheese fries. First, let's cut up some shiso leaves. But just going to take this stem, so going to take the stem part of the leaf. The shiso leaves are now ready to go. It's a little bit watery right now, but you can wipe off the water. Next, melted sliced cheese. You use half of each, so when you take them out of the bag, they stick together a little bit, so try to cut the whole bag. I'm going to halve all of these. Cut them like this and put them in the refrigerator until you are ready to use them. Now let's prepare the white meat. First of all, please prepare the whiskers here with a fork and kitchen paper. I think 1/3 of the kitchen paper. Cut it into pieces about this big. First we want to remove the threads of this white meat. I would like you to hold the threads and insert the threads into the gap between the forks. Like this. Hold this thread with kitchen paper to prevent it from sliding. Now, if you hold the threads firmly, push the fork firmly to the other side of this side. Sooo. Then it can be easily threaded like this. Like this. Now, I will do the same suzuki. All the threads are removed like this. I will open this up. First, I'm going to cut a little slit in this threaded area with a knife. Thinly. Be careful not to cut all the way through at this point. The cut is made shallowly and then snapped open. Like this. The other side is also reversed and this too is cut about halfway through the meat. Again, be careful not to cut all the way through. Pat open. Have ho. Open the meat like this. Now open the others in the same way. Then I place them on a cutting board and wrap the top of the board. Like this. I'll hit it with a rolling pin or whatever it is to make the meat a little thinner. This makes it easier to wrap the cheese. Let's beat. Like this. Please flip it around pero-pelo-pelo. This is about the thickness. About 0.5 mm. About this thick. Now I will do the same with the rest of the meat. Opened and flattened like this. It's okay if you get a little hole like this at this time. It's okay if you wrap it while sticking it. Now let's roll up the cheese. First of all, I want you to stretch the meat like this and sprinkle it lightly with salt and pepper. Pepe pepe. Fold the melted sliced cheese in half with a pat. Place. Then I fold the ends in a little bit and wrap it around. Like this. Close like this. Make 3 more of these in the same way. You don't have to fold in the ends of these whiskers that are shorter in width. I think it is a good idea to match the width of this cheese so that the overall length is even. I put it together like this. Now, let's move on to the leaves. The same way, lightly sprinkle salt and pepper on the shiso leaves and place them on top. Then fold the cheese in half and place it on top of the cheese, too, and roll it up with the two ends snugly together. Like this. Now let's make it the same way. I made it like this. Now let's put the garment on here. Unwrap the eggs for the batter. Unwrap eggs well. Eggs are now ok. Now let's put the batter on. First, dust with flour. Close the mouth tightly. Eggs are put on. Then dust with breadcrumbs. Coat a little more firmly with breadcrumbs. Pressing down. This is ok. Now, we'll continue to sprinkle in the same way, like this. At this point, be careful to press down on the cheese so that it doesn't stick out. Now I will fry them in a frying pan. First of all, it's oil in the frying pan. Frying oil. Can use any oil you like for frying. Roughly 2 cm from the bottom. Please add oil so that it becomes. First, put it on the fire. This time I will fry them at 170 degrees Celsius, so we warm the oil until then. The temperature has reached the proper level. As a rule of thumb, if fine bubbles come out from the tip of the chopsticks, it's OK. Put them in the oil to avoid burns. Continue frying for about 3 minutes. If you move it too much, a lot of batter will come off, so fry it without moving it too much at first. After about 1 minute, flip over. Now let's fry them until they get a good frying color. Be careful not to touch it too much with chopsticks, as the cheese tends to pop out quite easily. Remove from the ones that have reached a good frying color like this. It fried up like this in good condition. Now let's fry the rest in the same way. Be careful only not to burn yourself, because the cheese will pop out a little and the oil will splash. This is how it was fried. Now I would like to cut it. First of all, the regular cheese fries. Cut it. Be careful not to burn yourself. Ta-da. Finished like this. Cheese is tender. Then, the shiso leaves. Next, we move on to the leaves. Open. The large leaves are finished like this. This time I will show you how you can make it frozen. I put plastic wrap on a cutting board and set it aside. When freezing, it is recommended to freeze them before frying. Roll these up one at a time. Wrap the battered pieces like this in plastic wrap, put them in a freezer bag, remove the air, write the date you made them here, and freeze them as they are. If you freeze it, it should be good for about 3 weeks. When deep-frying, you can fry the frozen ones as they are. Now crispy fried white meat with cheese is ready. This is how it turned out. The cheese is tender like this. And here are the big leaves. And here is a tartar sauce that you can easily make in the microwave. It's done. Now, I would like to eat. I will start with the basic one with nothing on it. The meat is very tender and the cheese is meltingly delicious. Now let's have it here with tartar sauce. It goes very well with the tartar sauce. And this crispy texture is also good. Now let's have the shiso leaves as well. The aroma of the shiso leaves spreads in your mouth and is very delicious. I like the taste of shiso leaves. I serve it with tartar sauce, too. Let's eat. Tartar sauce and shiso leaves go great together. The tartar sauce goes perfectly with the plain one, but please try this shiso leaves and tartar sauce. I love it. Please subscribe to my channel. Another tasty finish today. The key to this time's white meat cheese fries. I used a fork to remove the threads from the meat. Please pass the thread through the gap of the fork first, and then hold the thread with a piece of kitchen paper. It is easy to slip if you hold it with your bare hands, so I think it will be easier if you hold it with a piece of kitchen paper. Then, push the fork to the opposite side of the side you are holding with your hand, and pull this side of the fork to the opposite side of the side you are holding with your hand, and you can easily and neatly remove the threads. Please try this method. As for the sinewy white meat, make a small cut from the sinewy part to open up the meat. Be careful not to cut the meat all the way through. I folded the ends first, and then I wrapped the cheese from the front. At this point, be careful not to let the cheese come out as far as possible. After that, you put bread crumbs on the dough and fry it in oil, but sometimes the cheese inevitably pops out while you are lifting the oil. When the cheese pops out, the oil splashes quite a bit, so be careful to fry only with burns. And this is the key to tartar sauce made in a microwave oven. First chop the onions and put them in a little vinegar water. This will take the pungency out of the onion. A point to keep in mind when heating eggs is that if you crack an egg like this and heat it up, it may explode. So be sure to lightly unravel the eggs before heating them. And as for mayonnaise, if you add mayonnaise to warm eggs, it sometimes separates, so be sure to add it after the eggs have cooled. The best way to freeze them is to wrap each one in plastic wrap before frying and then put them in a zipper bag for freezing. I would like to talk about the shelf life, but I would say that it should be consumed within 3 weeks. Personally, I think that the set of shiso leaves, cheese, and tartar sauce is very tasty, so please try making it with tartar sauce as well. Today I made frozen ready-to-eat white meat cheese fries. I have many other various videos on my channel. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. I also post on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok, so we would appreciate it if you would like to like, follow, and share our posts. Thank you very much. So that's all for today. Thank you for watching to the end today. Please give us a good button. See you in the next video. Bye.