One of the loveliest towns in the Hawaiian It's called Pa'ia, with a fine collection restaurants with a wide variety of cuisines tropical coconut trees and some world class You'll also meet some friendly people and It's an old-fashioned country town with a This friendly community was once a booming sugar cane industry. Well, today, Pa'ia is a town of colorful, shopping boutiques. In the 1960s, and later, this sleepy town who moved in and laid a bohemian foundation with that live and let live attitude of freedom Nearly all of Maui is open for tourism, except by that tragic fire on the West Side. Pa'ia is on the north shore of Maui, often an island that has many other visitor attractions, It's such a small town, it's only got one located right in the middle of town. The shopping area of Pa'ia is just about it's easy to walk it. Many of the people you'll see in town are which is hard to find in more upscale resort Pa'ia Bay is gorgeous, and nearby Hokitika and big North Shore style waves, amidst a Pa'ia Fish Market started here and is so locations. Pa'ia is one of our last old plantation come here. Once in a while, if you look good, you could artist, good surfer. There's all kinds of people traveling here. So if you ever decide to come to Maui, you And they also got some really good restaurants All right. So you guys come visit, huh? Okay, brother. Right. Cafe Mambo uses organic and locally grown their extensive menu made from duck, pork, Their appetizers include onion rings, duck fries. They've got three kinds of tacos, six different More restaurants coming up shortly after we There is such a variety to pick from as you We've got art galleries, clothing boutiques, outdoor adventure gear, home decor, gift shops So tell me the name of the store and what So this is Biasa Rose. We're located at Pa'ia, Maui, the north Wey've got women's, kids and men's clothing And this is a local soap. Local soap? From upcountry. Really? Yeah. Oh. How long has the store been here? 28 years. 28 years. Oh, okay. Now, tell me a little bit about Pa'ia. It's a hippie town, so, a beach town, it's Always warm, nice views. You will not feel any pressure in these stores Oh, that's perfectly okay. This outdoor eatery helps you find your sense There are health food restaurants. You've got some exotic Mediterranean cuisine You can easily spend a week here eating in Despite that lack of hotels, there are some through Airbnb and VRBO, or look for a long The many art galleries of Pai'a are the Perhaps the finest of all is Maui Hands, in These galleries are representing local artists, areas and fancy hotels that have artists from We're in Maui Hands, which represents 300 media, photography, prints, jewelry, glassworks, Drop in to enjoy their high quality arts and who are excited about their store and art One of the best attractions of Pa'ia is It's just about 300 meters away, easily reached It's a big sandy beach, usually with gentle body surfing and offshore waves for the surfboards. Or maybe you just want to sit back and relax But there are no benches or picnic facilities on a log or your beach towel. There's a wonderful facility here at the beach which offers a whole variety of programs for funded by private donations. Activities include surfing, diving, hiking, island. It's a stimulating, educational, safe and have fun together. And they've got some really good educational they can learn video production and photography And there are cooking classes for the girls healthy food. These activities help our youth become important This beach is part of what's called Lower much larger Baldwin Beach Park. But here's an interesting twist of geographic The real name of the town that we and everybody The official town of Pa'ia is nearly two headquarters in the old days. Anyway, things change and now we all call Back in town, you want to be careful with It can get pretty busy, so use a crosswalk. Nearly every visitor gets here driving their famous road to Hana. And maybe they want to stop off in Pa'ia but it's hard to find parking. Here's a little tip for you. Just on the West edge of town, there is a a few minutes walk from here right into the However, you are going to want to drive to which is two miles away at Ho'okipa Beach, These waves are not for beginners. If you're going to paddle out, you have to judge the swells and catch it at the right For the rest of us, it's a fun place to watch Maybe get a snack at this food truck selling Ho'okipa Beach is one of the best places to sail boarding, except you actually catch But the winds have to be just right. And today they were variable. Not so good for windsurfing, but nice waves It's delightful to watch, especially here Then we were entertained by an ukulele with (music plays) The sound of a song. But I'm just thinkin of you, of you.. Well, the prettiest tree on the mountain. Ooh! We frequently upload new movies, so please alarm bell so you'll be notified. And if you enjoyed the movie, how about a down below. Or if you have questions about the destination, Thanks for watching.