It's somebody's freedom. It's somebody's liberty. It's somebody's silent protest. It has been hijacked in con artists right? Scammers. Bitcoin can be But that doesnit mean Society is worse off in every Bitcoin bubble than it would On the North Pacific the small town of El The waves draw surfers But these picture-perfect Home to 3,000 residents, El Zonte is one of the But its street food is famous. The national dish Theyire sold on nearly just a couple US dollars. Maria Aguirre accepts Via a smartphone app, the worldis oldest I was a little worried to because itis a virtual currency But itis been two years, At first, the decision The value of Bitcoin But then, within it lost more than Now Maria and some can only hope Bitcoin can theoretically be exchanged In fact, holding onto than exchanging it can Because the crypto Short-term fluctuations where its value will dip or Itis a risk some retailers in They pay and do but they donit exchange hoping that its value will rise. Maria Aguirre is one of them. But at the end of 2022, Iive had losses, but I Since then, the value Welcome news for not only Maria. A social Bitcoin project in El Zonte The project is geared towards from turning to crime. Gangs and murder are a feared iHope Housei gives young people to get a better start in life. The charitable initiative recreational activities, In 2017 and 2018, many people for this project due But at the same time, there were And they used Bitcoin. The identity of the donor who remains a big mystery. All thatis known is that the Even the initiator iBitcoin Beach,i in El who was behind the donation. I mean it was a six-figure that was injected into the And so it was definitely [What] the donor was looking to a project where they which is what most that's the But they for projects that were willing to and they believed that Bitcoin more important than Itis been more than three years Those involved say Plus, many residents are over their heads. Renato Salazar helped fund on behalf of multiple donors. But now the families need to As you can see, itis concrete. 122 safe and stable homes in for 122 families. Not an insignificant number has a population of 3,000. The community members they also learn how to pay in They don't have bank accounts. They don't have access to any financial program. They don't have access to loans. They don't have They don't have So it would have been impossible El Zonte is considered a test No matter oneis rich or poor can conduct business No dollars, no Is Bitcoin a better and Can it replace Could it help alleviate the pressure There are many influencers Are they doing so in the They're doing it to make the world They truly believe that And honestly, I There are many legitimate Frankfurt is Europeis Here, the development isnit perceived as positively. The European is especially At the end of 2022, a blog post It was regarded as something The authors classified but as a ispeculative bubble,i and wrote that Bitcoin while investors One of the authors If we have a new society is worse off than For the E-C-B, the idea of is simply unthinkable. It alone has the right to print It opposes circumventing because that weakens With its independence Bitcoin is a nightmare especially considering the Bitcoin is not suited because its value And a means of payment should not Both these factors And people are being that the price of Bitcoin Every Bitcoin transaction whatis called a &quot;blockchain.i Whatis unique is that the identically on a network This is what makes Bitcoin outside the control of Bitcoin was created in 2008 authored by Satoshi Nakamoto. The authoris real Itis not even clear if behind Bitcoin The first bitcoin cost In 2021, Bitcoinis worth shot A 5 cent investment early about 5 million at least, briefly. The total amount of Bitcoins will Itis stipulated in there wonit be any Which is why many people believe While leaders at the European as highly speculative researchers at the nearby Frankfurt take a very different stance. Just because Mr. Bindseil works doesnit automatically Only time will tell. I honestly find it rather to run a PR campaign In my view, Bitcoin is not The researchers donit regard Bitcoin They see it as more Similar to investing in gold, hoping that its value The researchers donit as money on a global scale. Thereis a relatively One day the price is through the Itis impossible to Plus, itis not accepted When you dine out or fuel your Paying with Bitcoin But a recent development One of the main objectives is to prevent high inflation. And lately, it hasnit Everything is becoming The value of money is falling. If this stretches weill see that certain considerable challenges, as for example, donit. And I think the importance of Bitcoin Very few businesses Critics say cryptocurrency Buying goods and services is very difficult using And so, the main use and services using cryptocurrency So whether it is or you know buying maybe you want to hire a hitman, then yeah, Bitcoin is Thatis one reason why most free trade happening Large regulated crypto Bitcoin transactions, thereby deterring criminals. Customersi identities must be and profits can be taxed. Customers receive an If they exchange euros those assets end This is the point where Where am I depositing and which wallet are And if the state has the feeling it can approach the Dear crypto exchange, does If so, please share We need to see what's going on. Los Angeles. In California, defying Many here love cryptocurrency Freedom and independence from It plays on contrasts outsiders versus the poor, new versus old. Hey babes, multiple big stocks on a global scale, Apparently, thereis MATIC drama Two crazy things Hereis what you need to know. One of them could involve Just in, FOMC [Federal Open Boxing and Bitcoin at least, according to one of crypto-influencers. Theyire both charged To go your own way, It's about the underdogs and and using critical thinking. Change is coming. But this romantic idea of a In 2022, several crypto apps into financial ruin. The biggest scandal of all the crypto exchange founded He was accused of stealing In November 2023, a New He was found guilty on seven I'm not discounting Sam. He did absolutely very, very bad things. He lied, he stole, he But at the same time, we have bad actors and we're going to continue It's unfortunately human nature. But to sit and to single him to what some of the other bankers are doing, would be a and people in Before being convicted, lived here with on a bail bond of His situation, not unlike those That collapse is like so many that we've seen You have effectively an entity which is placing big bets and with more bets. And any time you have an they're going to run In the US, unregulated crypto No authority felt responsible such as Bitcoin or the number You have around 8 million in Germany and there are ionlyi Iim saying that in quotes 20,000 FTX victims. This shows that regulation I would argue regulation is in America to prevent Many feel the temptation to Ultimately, Iid say it comes and Bitcoin holdersi vision that That suggests that we that you can invest in and And of course you need to what it's useful for. So they say it could be He's entitled to his opinion. However, I've done with trading it, with holding And I haven't had anybody So, I mean, that's his opinion But if you look at the United and all the bonds and the traditional they're not really There are more than 8,000 Theyire offered on a not to mention the countless obscure The industry is a shark tank. It has been hijacked in con artists right? Scammers. I know many, many people have in these markets. It's a classic kind of bubble. Now, that's not to say really amazing technology Recently, thereis Users on crypto exchanges as much personal to when opening a A far cry from the Effectively we've a traditional banking system And I think most people that they're back using an to the ones that they WendyO wants to conduct That's why she stays clear She opts for the more technically directly from person to person known as ipeer to peer.i When you're using a third-party or a Coinbase or That is a third party. They are holding If that exchange goes down, For most people, learning the jargon and inner is too time consuming. Crypto exchanges But WendyO only Bitcoin in its Her Bitcoin is stored There's no third party that's tracking you, that's taking your information and Bitcoin doesn't do that. These third parties, they do. WendyO is part of a users that distrusts banks. For them, the notion that this regulated the same way as is out of the question. Our public servants, that's They're just a bunch very expensive pieces of paper degrees or they come from or they've got connections. They're just regular They don't necessarily If you want to buy a if you want to get an education, food, whatever that may be, But will the banks like WendyO try to chip away their La DEfense, a business is home to the of the oldest banks SociEtE GEnEraleis influence is already far greater than Recently, SociEtE GEnErale CEO Jean-Marc Stenger is one of the banking world's in the realm of crypto. We believe that era of financial Weire on the verge of a very when it comes to blockchain especially in regard to are supplied to the customer. When it comes to these services, a fundamental revolution SociEtE GEnErale has long on the forefront Itis allowed to trade offer wallets, and it supports authorities The French bank by leveraging blockchain Financial institutions or shares or bonds digitally. Theyill only exist in digital And that's what the ability to be faster, In the future, selling shares wouldnit Instead, they would be programmed In the business world, these And powerful financial players have New York is home to the largest This is where big Until now, the field Banks, brokers, and hedge fund anything that Cryptocurrencies are sold But, in early 2024, US authorities allowed Bitcoin ETFs for the first time. If you owned all of and you offered it to me because what would I do with it? I'll have to sell it back to It isnit going to do anything. The apartments are going are going to produce food. Stock market tycoon intrinsic value in Bitcoin so Ultimately, itis a series of numbers Many traditional financial see this as its But that attitude is Jordi Visser is the president over 4 billion dollars. He sees himself as a pioneer and other cryptocurrencies. No one, no one can argue of the blockchain is a whether we're able to use it is an argument that But I think it's certainly and I think it's So I see it as the which is going to help to a world that has values to prove that they're Many of Jordi Visser's in Bitcoin because of the But surprisingly, evaluations made by his financial Bitcoin's volatility Last year [in 2022], when people I forget the final numbers, but US technology stocks were was down almost as So what's the difference between in Amazon that was down I think we've gotten to has been declining for years. It will continue to decline as it In 2022, Bitcoinis value dropped In the same time frame, And the Dow Jones an index of 30 in the US, was down 9 percent. In 2023, Bitcoinis value between 20 and Leading experts from at least agree on one thing: The technology behind And itis well on its way to becoming Bitcoin is very much like it's a terrible but it's a wonderful And I do think that we'll Plattsburgh is a small city in New Twenty thousand and no major tourist attractions unless you count this building a former discount retailer. In 2018, it became one of mining operations Bitcoin is still The somewhat rundown building All day, their sole purpose Ideally, every 10 minutes. Each block they crack Validating each block is so would take a very long time. So countless companies of computers to It's an ongoing race: Whoever cracks the code In 2018, miners were But the problem is: all these computers constantly massive amounts of electricity. When the price of Bitcoin that its electricity consumption to that of the Netherlands. And in times of climate that's simply not thatis value to iBitcoin is so bad for the Well, so is printing money. So is driving a car. So is the lighting here. So is you and I Yes. Bitcoin does leave itty but so do a lot of Is the environmental impact or is it a serious concern? Plattsburgh can On a global scale, electricity It comes from a hydroelectric Thatis what attracted to set up its huge mining The new company promised But gradually, people learned the reality of the Basically itis all about I donit like it, I canit go in there and shop. They use a lot of electricity. It has raised our place in electric but itis the talk and the family dollar here, and went the whole because of the operation had the doors open because the you know, they have to constantly Around the time Colin Read became He teaches sustainability at He was appalled to this building consumed in his city of 20,000 residents. These machines run very similar to a space heater, So to control that heat, three to 10,000 machines you need to draw in a bunch of So any Bitcoin mine to have a lot of a lot of holes in the roof. Fans everywhere. In the a lot of noise because to run continuously The Bitcoin mining operation for the residents The cheap power supply generated The price of electricity For local companies like this paper Colin Read then forced for the extra The company responded I've seen many pictures with hundreds of millions venture capital money behind and suits and all They've got a trade them do the talking points After all, there is enormous Colin Read calculated that earned up to 50 million dollars a Plattsburgh, a lower-income If they're making tens of millions surely there's going to be lots But these are profits essentially cashed in anywhere. There's no reason to that this money will In the end, Plattsburgh did not nor were jobs created. Instead, for a time, with expensive Meanwhile, the Bitcoin of its computers to the next town, Colin Read is no longer He wrote a book He was initially excited but heis been disillusioned. If you look at who controls it's large corporations, it's billionaires as venture the complete entities were designed to take out of the Large companies digital money is US companies especially with GooglePay, The European monetary authorities from Bitcoin and from large That's why the European its attention to developing We think the digital euro to limit the market power just as it works with cash. We need to ensure the So the E-C-B also wants to get The digital euro, however, would be very different Thatis because theoretically, every transaction by citizens The only reason why they want the only reason why they is they want to monitor people. They want to have control. They want to They want people to do and instill fear that if I'm going to have We have no interest When designing the digital euro, we want to make it so that in the Eurosystem, and instead have We don't want to know or who that person is. Thereis deep Banks and states fear that without state supervision Bitcoin users believe the If you believe in then you shouldn't about this If you have little faith then yeah, perhaps this would El Zonte has had the nickname But actually, all of El Salvador of a test case for Bitcoin. Here, human rights are not has very little power. In 2021, it became the first country a move spearheaded by This was this unique They saw this as wow, how else could we literally known throughout the Have people change the are speaking negative, and the tech rather than The beginning of the was celebrated Thousands of crypto enthusiasts Nayib Bukele projected a baseball cap-wearing And he made his This is not a good This is the evolution So weire going there. You canit stop evolution. This ievolutioni was heavily Every citizen who the state-run received 30 dollars-worth A controversial means Maybe he understood maybe heis running an It could have been any country. Honestly for me it's not Whatis important is that a dared to take this step, and Iim fairly certain that even if it takes a The reality is: There are only a few capital that actually Especially after its value Most people use the dollar. Can one pay in Bitcoin? Nope, not here. Too hard? I never tried it. Not at the moment, no oneis Unfortunately, my or my son's university doesnit According to a survey, 70 percent of El distrust the Many businesses that accept Bitcoin But the Bitcoin community I absolutely love because by making he's essentially taking and telling everybody This is what we're doing. And I'm trying to improve the best way I can. In reality, Bukele wants to from the influence like the International If Salvadorans buy Bitcoin without their assets would be safe from Imagine we live in a country and I have 5,000 currency not necessarily in euro. The state doesn't like it. So what does it do? It could potentially take In other words, a kind of expropriation if the value is determined by a state or a banking system But itis not El Salvador has become a place There are even plans Traders, crypto miners, and work together there. The president's cousin is trying So far, a huge crypto city at the foot of a volcano You get zero percent income property tax, payroll and zero percent Building this new an estimated one billion dollars in one of the poorest where the average annual Nayib Bukele is and funding from abroad. Iim fully convinced that sooner There are people who want to So theyill pack up and suddenly It's a bit like where believers would or elsewhere and live Money is based Cryptocurrencies have added a new El Salvador is reflective of the But cryptocurrencies have And in all likelihood,