PRESENTER: The provided under a Your support will help MIT to offer high quality To make a donation or from hundreds of MIT courses, at ocw.mit.edu. PROFESSOR: Today we begin And before we get into I want to touch on have been mentioned in class It is the issue of nodes, and why solutions have the ground state has no nodes. This kind of stuff. So these are just a collection for you to understand a these properties hold. So one first thing is, if you have a Schrodinger eigenstate. Schrodinger equation for You have an equation of the d second dx squared psi of e times psi of x. Now the issue of that you're trying to solve for If you're looking at what what is a bound state? A bound state is something that So a bound state will that goes to 0 as the absolute So it's a probability function extend all the way to infinity. It just collapses. It's normalizable. So these are bound looking for bound And your difficulty is and you don't know E either. So you have to solve a problem oh this is just a plain give me the value of E. just calculate it. That's not the way it because you need to have So at the end of the day, this E gets fixed. You cannot get So I want to make a couple of Is that there's this Certainly, if v of x is a smooth that the wave function and the derivative vanishes at that same imply that psi of And therefore it are not interested in that. That's not a solution of Psi equals 0 is obviously solves It doesn't represent So what I claim here to be that you're problem with some you can take derivatives of it. And then you encounter that at some point, and its slope Then the wave function So you cannot have a psi of x that Comes down here. It becomes an inflection This is not allowed. If the wave function then the wave function It's going to hit at an angle, the wave function is 0 and needs point. And the reason is simple. I'm not going to It is that you have a second and a second order is completely determined at the point and the the And if both are 0s, like of initial condition, the only is psi equals 0 everywhere. So this can't happen. And it's something good If you have to do a you should never have this. So this is what we call the It's a place where the and the derivative better not vanish at that point. So this is one claim that but we just don't try to do it. And there's another claim that That for bound states in the kind of thing that we're no degeneracy is possible. What do I mean by that? You will never find of a potential that have the same energy. It's just absolutely impossible. It's a very wonderful not going to prove it here. Maybe it will be given as an And it's discussed But that's another statement There's no degeneracy. Now you've looked at the square well infinite one. And how does it look? You have x going from 0 to a. And the potential is 0. From 0 to a is The particle is bound walls of this potential. So in here we've plotted the Here is x. And the wave functions are Yes? AUDIENCE: Is it true if you have that there's still no degeneracy PROFESSOR: If there's an infinite barrier it's like having two universes. So it's not really a If you have an infinite that can talk to each other. So yes, then you It's like saying you can have or something in one energy They don't talk to each other. They're degenerate states. But in general, we're talking that are preferably smooth. Most of these things are true But it's a little more delicate. But certainly two are separated by is not part of what we OK so these wave functions 3, and psi ends of x are plus 1 pi x over a. Things that you've seen already. And En, the energies as a function of the integer 2ma squared. And the thing that you has technically no nodes. That is to say these to varnish at the end, because which means a particle The wave function There cannot be any wave So it has to vanish here. These things don't It is like a bound state And that's not what A node is somewhere of the range of x where So this is the ground state. This is psi zero has no nodes. Psi one would be something And try the next ones. They have more and more nodes. So psi n has n nodes. And the interesting thing is true for extremely You don't have to just to see that the ground That first excited state was one It's true in general. This is actually a but its difficult to prove. In fact, it's pretty So there is a nice argument. Not 100% rigorous, and really physical to present to you why So let's try to do that. So here is the general case. So I'm going to take That will be of this kind. The potential, here is is going to be like that. Smooth all over. And I will actually goes to infinity as Many of these things are but it simplifies our life. OK, so here is a result If this thing grows to stops growing, you get at fixed energies. One energy, two infinite number of bound states. Number of bound states. That's a fact. I will not try to prove it. We'll do it for the We'll see those infinite but here we can't Nevertheless, what for you is that these will have no nodes. The second state, the will have one node. Next will have two nodes, We want to understand what OK. You're not trying But we're trying to something that is So how do we prove this? Or how do we understand that be an infinite number psi 0, psi 1, psi 2, up And psi n has n nodes. All right. So what I'm going to do, in is I'm going to produce what we Screened potentials. I'm going to select the here for convenience. And I'm going to call it x And the screen potential It's a potential of x if the absolute And its infinity if the absolute So I come here, this is this is the screened Well, I wanted colored I go mark a here minus a. Here are the points Absolute value of x less than a. Throughout this region is the potential that you have. Nevertheless, for the So the screened Is infinite there, and So it's just some potential. You take it a screen one part of the potential, So that's a screen potential. So now what I'm going going to try to try to find the bound state Unless you remove the as you let a go to find the bound states of It's reasonable because as you you're letting more of and more of the And the wave functions that you're very far away, less and less. So that's the argument. We're going to try going to look at of the screened potentials and tell us about the bound So for this, I'm going potential in which that a is equal to So what potential so do I have? A very tiny potential here Now I chose the original point So actually, the bottom part of And if you take well, the potential but really at the bottom for this is an infinite square I chose the minimum so that you If it would be a this would be an ugly thing. So let's choose the minimum. And we have the screen Now look what we do. We say all right, here Very tiny. Goes like that. Vanishes here. Vanishes there. And has no nodes. Very tiny. You know the two 0s are And now I'm going the value of the screen a. So suppose we've and now the potential is here. And now we have a finite screen. Here is the potential. And I look at the wave function. How it looks. Here is psi 0. This ground state psi 0. Well, since this thing in here, the wave function and still must vanish here. Now just for your At this stage, it still more Maybe. Now I'm going to ask, as I And look what's going to happen. So suppose it might happen suddenly you produce a node. So here's what I'm saying here. I'm going to show it here. Suppose up to this But then when I double to twice the size, when I go suddenly there is a So if there is a one thing that could have And now look what must As I stretch this, this slope and down, and down, until to produce a node here. It could have but it's the same, so done with this side. To produce a node you the slope here must But for that to happen the this slope must have been 0. But you cannot have So this thing can't Another thing that is that when we maybe the wave function It doesn't flip at the like that. But the only way this and this potential is is for this thing at as you keep stretching the to produce a depression here. And at some point, to get But it can't do this either. It cannot vanish and have So actually, as you there's no way to That property forbids it. So by the time you go and this wave function has no nodes. So that proves it that the You could call this which means-- not in It means that it's and a mathematician working A bad physicist proof is and no mathematician could So I think this is a good Probably you can or based on this, a Now look at excited states. Suppose you take now here and now consider the third I'm sorry, we'll call this psi Well, maybe I should do psi 1. Psi 1. One node. Same thing. As you increase to create another Because again, you have or you have to So this one will evolve will have one node in Now stayed does that than the ground state? Well, it certainly begins with because in the square well And that energy should going to go below the Why? Because if it went below the slowly, at some point for it would have the same But no degeneracy is possible So that can't happen. Cannot have that. So it will always And therefore with one node you With two nodes will And that's it. That's the argument. Now, we've argued by this that this potential not but this is n nodes and En is greater than n prime. So the more nodes, Pretty nice result, all I wanted to say Are there any questions? Any? OK. So what we do now is That's going to keep us busy It's a very interesting problem. And it's a most famous quantum because it happens to be useful If you have any is the characteristic of Harmonic oscillator. Oscillator. Well, the energy operator is p one half m omega where omega is this think of angular velocity, It's more like Omega has units of 1 over time. It's actually put 2pi over And this you know from If you have a harmonic it actually oscillates And E is the energy is the energy of the oscillator. So what defines an oscillator? It's something in which the is v of x. v of x is quadratic in x. That is a harmonic oscillator. Then you arrange the This has units of has units of length squared. 1 over time squared. Length over time times mass is kinetic energy. So this term has And you good with that. And why is this useful? Because actually in any sort general potential you have a minimum where then the second derivative Then it's a good of the potential at the minimum It fits the potential And therefore when you have or something oscillating, It has a minimum at the And the oscillations by some harmonic oscillator. When you have photons there is a set of that correspond to photons. Many, many applications. Endless amount of applications So we really want to mechanically. And what does that mean? Is that we really want the Schrodinger equation. This is our first step in There's going to to be done even once we have equation. But the first thing what are the energy of the Schrodinger So notice that here there's an energy quantity. Remember, when you have and people say so what is Well, have to find the Have to do things. Give me an hour, I'll find it. And all that. But if you want an dimensional analysis will do it, Well, with this constant how Well, you remember and you know that h bar So that's an energy associated like quantity. And we expect that going to be the relevant energy. And in fact, we'll find energy is just one half of that. There's another quantity How about the length? How do you construct a Well, you can start and put powers and struggle. I hate doing that. I always try to find some that thing. So I know that over h squared over So I'm going to call So ma squared. That has units of energy. And you should remember is b squared over 2m, is h bar over sub lamda. So h bar squared, lambda that's units of energy. So that's a length. On the other hand, to construct an energy m omega squared length squared. So that's also m omega That's another energy. So from this equation I is h squared over m And it's a little is h bar over m omega. So that's a length. Length squared. I don't want to take We can leave it But that's important because And if somebody would ask how far is this you would say probably Would be a natural answer So OK, energy and to begin your analysis. So what is the The Schrodinger is going to be minus h dx squared plus the potential, x squared psi is equal E psi. And the big problem is I don't Now there's so many elegant oscillator. You will see those next lecture. Allan Adams will be back here. But we all have to go through the direct, uninspired Because most of the times you will not come up with to avoid solving the You will have to struggle with So today we struggle with We're going to just do it. And I'm going to do it slow that I hope you I'll just keep a but it will be one line So this equation is some sort And it's complicated and by the presence of What kind of equation is that They shouldn't be there, So this is the first step, We have to clean it up. Why? Because the nice double prime is equal to The derivatives create no units. y has the same units of that, where x must have no units, the sine of one centimeter. So this thing, we should No units anywhere. So how can we do that? This is an absolutely If you're going to be you'll get nowhere. So we have to clean it up. So what I'm going that look, here is So suppose I do the that I will clean side by dividing by something So I'm going to do I'm going to divide all And this 2 I'm going So multiply by 2 So what do I achieve I achieve that Well, that's not too bad. Not that great either, I think. But in the right hand side, And the right hand side will So what do we get here? So we get minus. The h becomes an h alone over-- The second psi the x squared. The 1/2 disappeared, bar x squared psi equals It looks actually Should agree with that. It looks a lot nicer Now I want to call this of the energy. So a calligraphic e. It has no units. It's telling me if I find some is this number, this pure is e with respect So I'll write this now as e psi. And look what I have. I have no units here. And I have a psi. And I have a psi. But things have Look, the same factor is upside down here. And this factor has Length squared times d d And here's 1 over 1 over length squared So things have worked out. And we can now to be equal to au, This is going to be your new equation in which is this thing. And then this really has cleaned So how does it look now? Well, it's all gone have x equals au, d dx by And to derivatives to x it's 1 over a squared And this thing is a squared. So actually you And when I write x get an a squared times this. And a squared times this is 1. So your differential become minus the where u is a dimensionless units of length, this No units here. You have no units. So minus d second squared psi is equal to e psi. Much nicer. This is an equation without being distracted of little trivialities. But still we haven't going to solve this equation? So let's again think Somehow it should happen And there is some solution It's not obvious at this stage Yes? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. PROFESSOR: Here for example, h bar over m omega is minus, But dx squared is 1 over So a squared cancels. And here the x is equal so again cancels. OK so what is the problem here? The problem is that most likely is that this solution for going to diverge at going to be able So let's try to understand as we go to infinity. So this is the first do with an equation like that. How does this solution Now we may not be able to solve but we're going to gain So here it is. When u goes to infinity, this term is much because we're presumably that we still don't but it's a fixed number and, This is going to dominate. So the equation to solve as u goes to infinity, psi double prime-- prime is equal to u squared psi. OK, so how do we get this is not all that obvious. It's certainly not a power of u, the power of u, you rather than increase the degree. So what function increases It's not the trivial function. Cannot be a polynomial. If it could be if you take two derivatives, squared times a polynomial. It's sort of upside down. So if you think about you don't have an but you would imagine would do it, an e Because an e to you differentiate with respect When you one derivative. When you take well, it's more complicated, will produce another u down. So that probably is quite good. So let's try that. Let's try to see if we So I will try something. I'll try psi equals 2. I'm going to try e to the alpha u squared over I don't know how much it is. Alpha is some number. Now could try this want to emphasize is the behavior won't make any difference for example, something It will also be So let's see that. So for that I have And let's see what we get. So we're trying to see how the You might say well that alpha should be negative. But let's see what before we put anything in there. So if I do psi prime, You would get one be alpha u times this u to over 2. I differentiated I differentiated And then you would you differentiate the power. So you get ku to the k squared over 2. If you take a second can differentiate the so I will get alpha because each derivative produces a factor of alpha u. u to the k into the And a couple more terms that because this term already has u to the k plus 1. And this has u to the k minus 1. They differ by two powers of u. So for illustration, Three lines, you should skip if you're taking notes No point in me doing Alpha u squared over 2. Because actually it's Over alpha 1 over u squared squared 1 over u to the fourth. That's all you get. Look, this is alpha times psi times these things. 1 plus 2 k plus 1 over So when u goes to works, because these So you get a number That is the equation you are And therefore, you get squared is equal to 1. And that means and really that And roughly this probably there's two solutions. This is a second order so even near infinity there So we expect as u goes will be some constant A e to the minus u squared over 2. That's where alpha Plus Bu to the k into the And what is k? Well, we don't know what is k. It seems to work for all k. That may seem a little We'll see other things So look at what has happened. We've identified that most is going to look like So we're going to want to So presumably we're going just has this, because The integral of any power times So this can be normalized. The Gaussian falls so be integrated Any power however big to compensate a Gaussian. It's impossible to So we hope for this. But we want to learned into some in solving the because, after all, we wanted but we wanted to solve So how can we use have to simplify the solution The idea is to change So write psi of u to be to the minus u squared over 2. Now you're going to say Are you making an that this is what is Or what are you putting there? I'm not making I'm just saying whatever be written in this way. Why? Because if you have can write it as psi of u over 2 times e minus Very trivially this As long as we say there's nothing, I have not assume I'm just hoping that I have a That because this is a very equation for h will be simpler. Because part of the dependence So maybe h, for example, could because this product So the hope is that by it will become an and that equation So will it be simpler? Well, here again this You're supposed to plug this is the equation I won't do it. It's three lines of and calculate the You should do it. It's the kind of thing that So please do it. It's three, four lines. It's not long. But I'll just write the answer. So by the time you the e to the minus is going to cancel It's very here. You just need to so it becomes a second And indeed, it becomes equation. The second h, du squared minus equals 0. OK, that is our equation now. So now we face the problem So before we start, some questions of what Let's see. Any questions? Yes? AUDIENCE: Do you have would be-- this equation [INAUDIBLE] minus u squared over to the k. PROFESSOR: It's here? This thing? AUDIENCE: Yeah. Could you then just power series u to the k terms [INAUDIBLE]? PROFESSOR: No. This is the behavior So I actually don't know is going to behave We really don't know. It suggest to you that is going to be near 0 u to or something like that. But it's not that, because done at infinity. So we really have no information Other questions? Yes? AUDIENCE: So is k some arbitrary PROFESSOR: At this moment, Is that right? Doesn't matter. The analysis that we did here That's why I just didn't I didn't put it because a u to the k. I wouldn't know So at this moment, is we don't know what it is, And we will. In a few seconds, we'll OK, so how does one Well, it's not a But it can be solved and we'll see that. But the way we is by a power series expansion. Now you could do and I did it when the lecture yesterday. I said I'm going to equal a constant a0 plus plus a3u cubed. And I plugged it in here. And I just did the and start to see what happened. And I found after that a2 is determined is determined by a1 It's not the obvious when you So when you face a don't go high power Just try a simple series And you see a little pattern. And then you can do a more So what would be a more To write h of u equals 0 to infinity Then if you take a going to need the would be the sum from j times aju to the j minus 1. You would say that because for j equals That's crazy. But indeed for j equals 0, and makes it 0. So this is OK. Now the term that we actually So here minus 2u dh du would equals 0 to infinity, and I The u makes this j minus 1 j, So here is so far h. Here is this other going to need for the And then there's the going to need for the so I'm going to go here. So what do we get We'll have to take So we'll take-- h so d second h du squared equals 0 of j times j minus Now you have to rewrite this You want everything You don't want actually to So the first thing is that this sum actually begins it vanishes. So I can write j times j Like that. And then I can say let j Look, j begins So if j is j prime plus 2, So we've shifted the sum so it's And whenever I have a j I So j prime plus 2. j prime plus 1 aj prime Wherever I had j, I And finally you say j or so let's call it j. j equals 0. j plus 2. j plus 1. aj plus 2 uj. So we got the series so we just plug into the So where is the It's here. So I'll plug it in. Let's see what we get. We'll get some from j Let's see the second j plus 2 times j plus 1 aj So that's this second Now this one. It's easy. Minus 2j aj and the uj is there. So minus 2jaj. Last term is just e the function this That's h. And look, this whole So what you learn is that be 0 for every value of j. Now it's possible to-- so it's actually Let me write it here. j plus 2 times j plus plus 1 minus e aj uj. I think I got it right. Yes. And this is the same sum. And now, OK, it's a lot of This must be 0. So actually that solves for What I had told you that you if you try it a little. That a2 seems to be And a3 seems to be So this is saying given by 2j plus 1 minus e A very nice recursive relation. So indeed, if you it will determine for you a2, If you put the value of a1, it So a solution is determined by and telling me how much is a1. Two constants, two numbers. That's what you expect from equation. The value of the the derivative at a point. In fact, you are as the two constants that And this is the value of h at 0. This is the So we can now write about the solution So what do we know? That solutions fixed That correspond to the and the derivative And this gives one solution. Once you fix a0, you get a2, a4. And this is an even has only even powers. And then from a1, you fixed with an odd solution. OK. Well, we solve the which is really, because we were expecting for some values of the energy. Moreover, you have a0, This will go on forever And then it will be an grows up and doesn't which is sort of that we had before the function was going to be times this exponential. So this is what we're looking It doesn't look It looks like it goes forever. So let's see what when the coefficient, the For large j. aj plus 2 is roughly equal the energy is, sufficiently is the 2j here, the j and the j. So you get 2 over j aj. So roughly for large j, And now you have to ask if you have a power series behave like that, how How about is it? You know it's the because your h was all And suppose they They grow in that way because they're decaying. Is this a solution Or is it not going to blow up? And here comes an This is pretty bad It's pretty awful behavior. So let's see that. That's pretty bad. How do we see that? Well you could do it depending on whether that this is a bad I'm going to guess something. I'm going to look at how behave as a power series. Well, you know as a is 1 over n u squared to the n. Here's n factorial. n equals 0 to infinity. Now these two n's, u to the So I'm going to and I'm going to work with j So I will write u to the j here. And that this correct, because u to the 2, u to the And j is really 2n, have one over j Now you might say, j over No, it's not a fraction, So this is a nice factorial. Now this is the And let's see how this So this cj is 1 over What is cj plus 2 over cj? Which is the analogue Well, this would be 1 over And here is up there, Well, this has one more than the numerator. So this is roughly plus 1, the last value of this. This integer is just Now if j is large, over j over 2, Oh, exactly that stuff. So it's pretty bad. If this series will diverge like And your h will be like e to the u squared over 2 is going u squared over 2 is going So it's going to do If this series we have not succeeded. But happily, the because the j's are integers. So maybe for some energies it terminates, and The only way to get a solution The only way it can is some odd number over here. And that will solve the thing. So we actually need to do this. This shows the energy. You found why it's quantized. So let's do it then. We're really done This is the most important is that the series otherwise it will If it terminates then everything is good. So to terminate you can choose This will make aj And your solution, your aj will be the last so it will be aj and it will go down like aj It will go down in steps of is always by steps of two. So that's it. That's going to be the solution going to be fixed by and we have this. Now most people So let's call it n. And then we have 2n And h of u would be an u to That's the h. The full solution is h squared over 2 as we will see. But recall what e was. e here is 2n plus 1. But he was the true energy That was long ago. It's gone. Long gone. So what have you That the energy, the energy of the going to be h omega So it's actually h omega, and Very famous result. The nth level of the harmonic And moreover, these choose these-- you related by steps of two. So just like you could start you can go down. People call these functions And they fix the notation so They like it. It's a nice normalization. So actually h of the Hermite function of u sub n. And it goes like 2 to the to the n minus 2 plus goes on and on like that. OK, a couple things Just for reference, if you're interested that solves this equation. And the Hermite to e sub n, which is 2n plus 1. So the Hermite solution is that the Hermite polynomial d Hn du plus 2n. Because en is 2n plus 1. So it's 2n Hn equals 0. That's the equation for and interesting thing to know. Actually, if you want to the Hermite polynomials, there's function. e to the minus z If you expand it in it actually gives you If it's a power series of z, You can put a factor here So you can use your and expand this in powers of z. Collect the various powers of and that's Hn It's the most And moreover, if you want you can show that satisfies this equation. So it produces the solution. So what have we found? Our end result is the following. Let me finish with that here. We had this potential, and the and has energy h omega over 2. The next energy is E1. It has 3/2 h omega. Next one is E2 5/2 h omega. This polynomial is So it has n zeros, So these wave functions will E0, the psi 0, When you have psi 0, the equals zero. And the whole solution of u squared over 2. The whole solution, in psi n Hn of u e to the In plain English, it will be Hn u with x over And you have minus x Those are your eigenfunctions. These are the solutions. Discrete spectrum, evenly possible. All the nodes are there. You will solve this in a [APPLAUSE]