As you all know, the original Animal Crossing never got even if it was planned at one point. So, Nintendo made sure to include I mean, a game like that could wirelessly connect Well... looks pretty good to me! Surely nothing... could... go... wrong... Today, we finally discuss the most interesting Let's start off with Wild World's ...though, I'm not sure if that's the right word for it. I'm, of course, referring to the &quot;seeding&quot; issues for the entirety of its lifespan. In this game, there are instances are programmed as invisible &quot;seeds&quot; within your town. For example, while the museum may look like this in-game, internally, the game just spawns this In this fashion, whenever you start a new save, the game essentially just drops seeds around These seeds are then responsible for telling the game what objects and buildings to This approach works fine, and there's nothing serving as a marker for where objects should go. After all, the game's seeds were exclusive or obtained by the player in the vanilla game. Except... not everybody plays by the rules. If you were around for the DS-era of Nintendo games, you are likely aware of several The most common of these were the &quot;Action Replay&quot; series, manufactured by UK company Datel. With these devices, you could actually modify to place invalid IDs and items in your inventory. So, if you were clever enough with hacking, you could actually place Wild World's Since, again, the game basically uses seeded items as a way to determine where objects should be placed and rendered... ...things get extremely messy if you drop these and place them in your town. Doing so appears to be harmless... ...but upon reloading the map, will be interpreted as the real object This means hackers could customize their town which become permanent upon saving. And, yes, all of these seeded items meaning one could technically have multiple Now, this all may sound harmless. After all, I mentioned that you would need an But, as as I teased in the beginning, first foray into true online multiplayer. Of course, this means that other players so long as you had their friend code. Even though a friend code was required, this was such as AnimalCrossingCommunity.com, Wild World also sold quite a bit more so a lot of people were playing and looking Yet, of course, this is the internet That is, if people visiting your town and hacked some seeded items into their inventory, they could actually visit you through Wi-Fi This means, upon map reload, with invalid buildings, trees, rocks, and more... Since the seeded items are typically innocent hosts could end a and return to their entire town If the &quot;seeder&quot; was truly evil, they and even prevent players from Even further, seeders could actually that the game fails to render all of them, and simply crashes whenever it tries to load your town. In extremely severe cases, there are reports of the Nintendo DS memory itself Even if your system isn't entirely bricked, the copy of Wild World would Since most DS cartridges use built-in flash memory, this means that the save data related to the With no way to access or delete this a Wild World cartridge could become &quot;permanently&quot; This is becoming a real problem in the resale market, where used copies of Wild World since it belonged to a previous owner whose Now, it is technically possible if you're savvy enough to edit a DS file on a PC, However, most people playing the game did not leaving them with a useless cartridge... While there definitely were some malicious players online, it may also seem easy to blame Nintendo You might think that there should be some checks before allowing them to visit a town... ...or better yet, maybe some actual validations on ...but I'm willing to cut Nintendo some slack. I think it's important to remember that this was one of Development of Wild World was also pretty rushed, and released just two years after Dobutsu no Mori e+. As such, design concept like seeded buildings and objects where you can actually customize your town and All this said, while I understand that Nintendo it was still a huge issue back in the day! Of course, DS games could not so this online seeding issue persisted throughout from 2005 all the way to 2014. Next, let's talk about an actual oversight For years after Wild World's release, Nintendo by distributing special gifts over Wi-Fi. Just one month after the game's North American release, Nintendo distributed the special This item arrived attached to a If players tried to place this item in their homes, and they could not move or interact with the item. Regardless, this item still took up a space inside your home, so it was permanently stuck wherever you placed it. Given the ominous nature of the many players were afraid that Nintendo distribution Warnings about this began to spread across the internet, but Nintendo quickly took notice and disabled the distribution. Nintendo later put out a statement acknowledging They stated that receiving a letter containing a and blamed the problem on a Apparently this item was only distributed for a few hours, so if you happened to get this letter and the glitched tulips, I suppose this would count as one of the rarest, Speaking of Nintendo distributions, I previously mentioned that Wild World However, these monkeys could only be obtained For example, in North America, you would or the Nintendo Store in New York, to have a This was accomplished in North America and Europe known as the &quot;Relay Version&quot;. This cartridge and its contents are widely available online, and you can actually slot this into a normal DS This can be abused to send infinite copies of monkey villagers to other DS systems that are running a copy of Wild World. The game codes for these relay cartridges are As such, you might expect there to be a be coded NTR-AM4J-JPN. However, upon research and questioning a few While Japanese players still had to receive monkey these stations differed from their While the American and European stations were quite the Japanese stations were instead handled So, although we can preserve a lot of distributed data by just purchasing US and European ...a lot of this extra data is seemingly lost for Japanese players. This means it is incredibly difficult, if not in a Japanese version of Wild World. While monkey villagers are seemingly Wild World does have a few glitches One of the most interesting glitches involves Wild World of course allows you but if you do a specific set of steps, you can actually perform in-game memory By putting a letter in the last slot of your inventory, inserting some spaces before and after the villager's name, and positioning the cursor before the villager name... ...you can then spam any character to move From here, you can move the cursor as far to the right After listening to this wonderful character spam, you'll eventually hear the sound of bells being deposited, and you'll notice your bell count goes from zero to millions! What's happening here is that, by performing these steps, we're actually going beyond the bounds of the letter and we're now inserting characters This glitch allows for you to go up to which conveniently begins to modify your inventory. After a certain point, you begin writing which allows you to get millions of bells in seconds! This glitch was discussed for quite a long time Anyways, as you can imagine, this glitch is pretty allowing you to overwrite things in your As long as you know where you are in the buffer, and what Japanese character hex you can write a myriad of items directly into your inventory. And, yes, this includes the seeded objects So, as long as you're on a Japanese 1.0 version of the game, I guess you don't really need a Anyways, I hope you enjoyed our first look at While I generally focus on the GameCube original, I've come to learn more about each and discovered so many peculiarities and That said... we may have a city... ...or perhaps an island to visit in the future! But, that's going to do it for this video! Special thank you to my Patrons and YouTube Members, Shoutout to my highest tier supporters... And, as always, thank you all Until next time...