Are you tired of the never-ending costs of we've got a list of products that will help you and gas to filtering your water making biofertilizer, and even running a vehicle, companies out there are making the transition to It's time to break out your inner hippie Turbulent Hydro With water being one of the most abundant Hydro are harnessing the power of water to bring world. These cost-effective hydropower plants can has a drop between 1.5 - 5 m and can power generated using an individual turbine or a network all designed for durability and low maintenance. A and autonomous operation of the turbine. Part negative effects to the environment as well "fish-friendly vortex" which allows all aquatic These turbines are designed to last up to 30 they do not obstruct the normal Gravity Light One aspect of living off-the-grid is that once the issue. You may not have access to batteries and or some other power source. The company Deciwatt Using one of human's first tools, the pulley of pulling on this mechanism will bring the by a DC generator that disperses the weighted straightforward product could bring access to provide a nighttime solution to anyone choosing Satlights that can take that power generation HomeBiogas 2 With so many remote locations worldwide, much of gas to power their world. HomeBiogas is solving Did you know you could take something as cooking gas? If you are serious about living takes little resources, and has a maximum capacity free energy use. It uses a process called down organic matter and create the gas that flammable gas typically composed of 60% just like LPG or natural gas, This product not only produces gas but also has use to grow all of your food. Reduce your carbon Legion Solar 5 live and how you live, powering your home may be Legion Solar 5 is trying to solve this problem designed for Plug and Play use, making it simple A huge hassle for those switching to solar power and state officials. Legion's Solar Regulator that the utility company does not own, allowing no interconnection permission or permit needed. so whether you only need a 300W system, or 9.6kW, solar energy offsets consumption from your energy At night, stored energy from the batteries further bills. If grid power goes down, the off-grid power for your appliances. It's peace of mind HomeBiogas Toilet HomeBiogas makes the list once more with their this toilet turns pollutant body waste into a it decomposes waste and transforms just like the previously mentioned HomeBiogas non-pollutant, environmentally friendly, and with no need for outside resources. One major huge amount of water use a single toilet operates of water per year. If choosing to combine this you keep them no more than 5-10 meters away Berkley Water Filter Having a trusted water source is always questionable city water to nearby streams and This Berkley Water Filter is a portable water no electricity or water pressure required. cysts, and parasites entirely and extracts pesticides, VOCs, chlorine, organic It also reduces nitrates and heavy metals such it can remove food coloring from water without Berkley has this purification system in a can hold up to 5.7 liters of water and is small Lavario Washer This incredibly simple-looking machine can power When picturing doing laundry, off-grid, you and scrubbing against a washboard. Well, you can eliminate dirt, grime, and odors that utilizes a piston and cylinder approach The washer's capacity is about 5 gallons and can does most of the work, anyone from children to living on a boat, in a cabin, camping, or simply the Lavario Washer is an eco-friendly Chinook Solar Air Heater Just because you want to live an you need to sacrifice something as basic as The makers of Chinook Solar Air Heater have found activates the built-in fan and draws air in inside the room solar heated. This heater is 100% heat. A simple plug-and-play setup allows you With no maintenance needed, this solar SolarHome 620 system. The easy-to-install solar panel captures powers 3 hanging lights, a USB charge-out, and integrated extension cords so you can place There is a motion sensor that lights upon demand, The system is run by an easy to install a 6-watt the control box, which keeps the whole system LED display provides real-time feedback on Sion Solar Car For those of you who are truly committed to is for you. Check out the Sion Solar Car, an that charges itself through the power of the sun. into the body of the car. It can add 112 km week through solar energy to the car's battery With bidirectional charging technology, energy storage wherever you are. Not only is but the building of these cars is too as sCarabane Last on our product list is perfect if you're the go! Have you ever seen a caravan that rotates? using sun and wind to provide energy. The towable weighing in at approximately 2.5 tons. It on this portable track and is foldable within 30 The retractable solar receptor helps provide While the Telescopic Vertical Axis Inside the vehicle, you can set the sunlight generation of sustainable living is not yet on the