Winter is coming... hay while the sun shines&quot; or rather, &quot;Prepare Soon, snow will cover everything, Hello, friends. What's up? Today, as always, I've got an unusual All I need for materials are some I could've used regular metal, steel. I've never really worked with The steel I'm using is AISI 304 It contains at least 18% chromium and 10% plus manganese and copper as Now, for the first new tool I'll be using today. It's packed really well, and I'm impressed even some extra consumables. I had it up and running in a minute, and its It has a self-diagnosis feature when powered on. on the screen, no old-fashioned It even has a handy setting for The pilot arc ignites without The torch is as simple as it gets. with a hole, then the nozzle screws on top of the This machine can cut through no need to even try. But what Based on the metal's thickness, I It cuts through like a hot knife through butter! Sometimes I do projects with aluminum, This isn't a thin sheet either; I tested it, and now I'll use it for the stainless My go-to helper on projects is my 3D printer. I use it not only for parts but also for various The precision is amazing - everything fits snugly. and cut the exact length I needed for the For marking holes in the bulkheads, I also the center or draw anything. I left the centers of the future holes. workpiece and punch it with a center punch. I drilled all the holes using hole saws for metal. I've found a new type of hole Sure, I could've used a step drill I cleaned up all the edges It's always by my side and This sander was one of my of debate in the comments under Everything's prepped; now Let's weld some stainless steel. Here it is. It's a multipurpose MIG welder with I picked it because it's small and light, It can weld with or without gas. and of course, you can stick weld too. It even came with two spools of I can't wait to try it out! First, I'll try welding 1mm thick I'm no expert welder, but these smart I'm doing it with tack welds to The flux in the wire spatters Basically, it's like an electrode, just thin, long, and the flux is inside. Now I'll switch to CO2 and regular wire. Quickly swap the spool and make For some reason, corner welds I also welded two profiles It came out great. But my project is stainless steel! To ensure perfect alignment during They'll hold the bulkheads in I'll tack a few in place, then weld the rest There are seven pipes in the design - one in each 260mm long. I could add more pipes or lengthen them, I'll see how well this version transfers I cleaned up all the welds to make them I had to test for cracks. I found the best method for me. (calcium carbonate, a form of limestone), Then, I sprayed some penetrating lubricant on the After waiting a bit, I had to touch up In the middle of the large pipe, pipes running through it, also airtight. of time for the top and bottom. these sections, cooling as it flows through I cleaned up all the burrs Makes work more pleasant, looks professional, Since the heat exchanger will I'll make the inlet and outlet of I'm hoping the silicone hoses Here's how the welds look on the bottom. I just welded it to the intake pipe. than 1mm thick, it all came together After welding, stainless steel leaves I decided to try a cool I ordered this brush for three bucks. I think similar to those in heating cables. To use it, you need an electrolyte solution, I'm And a power source. on the workpiece, the negative on the brush. spots and wiped them down with a baking It's all set! I didn't go overboard with polishing the casing, but I did run a felt disc over it First run! to my heater from the last video. In summer, it cools, in winter, it'll heat. The exhaust from the heater is extremely Why waste such valuable heat? Hot exhaust gas passes through the heat exchanger, and the radiators transfer that By the time the gas exits the heat exchanger, I've connected everything roughly for now - still But it's working great! steel, and now I've got a significant Guys, if you enjoyed the video - As always, I'll leave all the useful Come back soon, there's plenty more Wishing you all the best and good Thanks for watching this video.