Hi, I'm Detective Joseph Scaramucci with I've worked hundreds of human trafficking share with you what I've learned about traffickers First, we have to understand that human trafficking, supply and demand. We know that the "supply" side of human used and exploited. The demand is the buyers, the people who are victims. And the person in the middle is the trafficker. The trafficker is a person who through force, to the buyer. So who are these traffickers? In sex trafficking, a trafficker may be better Now take a minute and think about what comes Based on music and movies, you probably have But as someone who has encountered and arrested you -- most don't look like this. I'm about to show you a group of photos. Take 10 seconds to decide who you think the You may have guessed it, but all of these In 2018, a Travis County, Texas, woman conspired girl, lured the girl through "Tagged," to make her perform sex acts, and is now serving In 2018, a Houston, Texas, man was running a 15 year old boy to give massages to clients. Paying customers were allowed to engage in He did this to multiple boys. He also tried to traffick this boy to the He's now serving a 30-year prison sentence. In 2016, Waco man who was 51 year olds old men to have sex with her while keeping her He's now serving 12 consecutive life sentences. In 2018, a junior high teacher in small town photos of her underage family member and arranging her. In 2019, a former District of Columbia police 14 and 15 years old, and paid them to have He pointed a gun at one of the girls demanding act. He's now serving 10-20 years in prison. From 2012-2015, a woman sold her 10-year-old several years. He promised to pay the victim's college electronics and other gifts. The 67-year-old businessman was convicted As disturbing as it is to hear stories like in communities around America. These stories remind us that traffickers come They could be from the United States or another They could be family members or partners of Traffickers can be male or female. They could be individuals, part of an organized Another group guilty of human trafficking A recruiter is used by a trafficker to find These recruiters seek out vulnerabilities Things like low self esteem, history of abuse, access, increase a young person's vulnerability. Recruiters look for their victims in places They might hang out at malls and parks, befriend runaway youth at a bus stop, youth shelters, Even though a recruiter isn't the person according to the law, they are still guilty So we know traffickers and recruiters do what But who is driving the demand? The buyers. Like traffickers, buyers also come in many Over the years, I've arrested more than I've picked up buyers as young as 17and They come from every segment of society; they construction workers and unemployed, just Most buyers are there because they 1) think get caught, and 3) have a sex addiction or in an appropriate way. But the truth is: there are very real victims actions. There are law enforcement like me looking Exploiting another person is never an acceptable A lot of these buyers also admit that the buy sex, and especially for those seeking to pornography. My job as a detective is to investigate these but I also care about the victims impacted That's why I depend on Unbound advocates and support they need. And whenever I train on human trafficking other law enforcement it's vital that they can provide services to the survivors. So we talked about traffickers, recruiters As a member of your community, first of all, Don't buy sex. Don't let yourself get on that slippery so many people to buying sex. Don't exploit and take advantage of other Keep your eyes and ears open. If you see something suspicious, call the local law enforcement. If your community isn't educated about human or advocate for education in your schools. If you have young people in your life, talk and pornography. Be a safe place for them when they screw up. And get involved with and donate to organizations for the survivors that law enforcement recover. Whatever you do, take action and be part of