- Y'all, we are walkin' and those of you who have followed me for a long time is probably because this was in the early days of my show on a food channel here. And they gave me... It's so funny, I remember They gave me the subject they wanted me to prepare, and it was donuts. I said, &quot;What in the world You just eat 'em while they're warm. Well, you will not believe it. As fate would have it, I got a letter from a guy His name is Bill Nicholson, and I hope you're still doing well, Bill. He sent me a note and said, &quot;Paula, I was having a dinner party and realized I didn't have a dessert, and the grocery stores were closed.&quot; So he told me that he had Yeah, I'm sure y'all know a gas station, and he said he had to get ingredients that he He found donuts. He found fruit cocktail. He found sweetened condensed And he said,&quot; I'm gonna make something out of this for dessert.&quot; I mean, this was not two or three days before I was gonna have to And I got in touch with him. I said, &quot;Oh, Bill, you have 'cause I didn't know what I And we made it, and I'm telling you what, it was so early in my career. That's when I was checkin' Facebook to see what people were sayin'. Honey, they were hanging They accused me of being the devil's right hand person, tryin' to kill everybody in America. And when I shared Bill's the fact that this might be But we have had so much fun with this Krispy Kreme bread pudding, and like I said, it's delicious. And just the fact that Bill was running through curb stores to make a dessert with. And he said everybody fell in love with it and wanted the recipe. So, on my donut show, no problem, no problem. I had a recipe, thanks to Bill Nicholosn. I'll never forget Bill, never forget. Bill's original recipe, y'all, called for two dozen donuts. I'm gonna start with a and I've got the biggest that one can buy. (chuckling) (can clamoring) I've got two beaten eggs. (bowl tinkling) I've got one can of (spatula clattering) And y'all, like I said, that was... I did this back when I was really taking everybody's I didn't know that there just wanted to be nasty and hurt you 'cause it hurt me feeling so bad that they were sayin' I (bag crinkling) Alright, it calls for a (bag crinkling) But I don't think... Is this a nine ounce? Yep, (bag crinkling) I'm just gonna kind of do although I do love raisins. (bag crinkling) So I'm gonna do what Bill told me to do. (bag crinkling) I'm gonna use the whole nine ounce box. Alright now, so what we have to do now, wanna just mix this up good. (spatula banging) And then we're gonna pour (concoction squelching) And like I said, I'm... I don't want this to be dry. It's been years since I made it y'all, but I don't want the bread although we have got a gonna bathe this in after it's done. We got a bigger bowl because we are going, this to sit for maybe 10 or 15 minutes to absorb all the juice. And this is the way we're gonna do it to see that that happens (concoction squelching) 'cause we want those donuts And you saw I was just cubin' the donuts. Now it's time, y'all, to add the cinnamon, and Bill just says one to So I did like a heapin' teaspoon. (spoon clattering) Alright, so you can see the (spoon scraping) (spoon scraping) Good, good, good. Okay, so Bill, you said two dozen donuts. I cut mine down to a a dozen and a half because I just don't want it to be dry, even though we're gonna And we're gonna bake this for You can just keep your eye on it. Keep your eye on the prize, (spoon scraping) while I get every bit of this goodness of this big old bowl, y'all. Aunt Peggy has showed up to start sampling our Alright, now the donut bread and while that's cookin', I'm gonna make the sauce 'cause in a nice, sweet sauce, and we've got rum flavoring. Now if you want to... (coughing) Excuse me, if you want to, you could use real rum, but if children are gonna be sampling any of my things, I really So we're gonna melt this stick of butter, stir in one pound of confectioner sugar, and I'm gonna do this to taste and then we're going to pour Okay, we've got our and Bill says to slowly (sugar sifting) (bag crinkling) And he said to just cook this I think I may have to add Like I said, it's been a long (pan sizzling) (spoon clinking) Alright, that's a teaspoon of extract, and I don't... (pan clamoring) I'm gonna cut that off. Okay, that's way too... I hadn't even added the so I'm definitely gonna have to (door shutting) add a little liquid, and I'm gonna do that using half and half. (pan sizzling) It's not going to take a bunch, but (pan clattering) (Aunt Peggy chatting indistinctly) - Yeah. Sorry, Bill. (whisk banging) And don't get your feelings hurt 'cause I change my own recipe. (chortling) Alright, I wanna get that (whisk banging) 'cause I still got more (bag crinkling) (bag crinkling) Alright. (spoon clattering) Right at two teaspoons of rum extract. (mixture sloshing) (mixture sloshing) Looks good. So you can use... Leave this fairly thick on hot bread pudding. Throw on that bread pudding, so this could melt on top of that. (cap jangling) Looks good, doesn't it? Okay, y'all, I left that fairly thick. Now Bill actually gave us He said put some of this So, and then he also said cover the bread pudding when it comes out of the oven, so. Mm. Look at that, y'all. And you remember I did add a little cream to those donuts because I a little on the drive side, so that cream definitely helped. Whoa! (spoon scraping) That looks pretty good. And that's slowly, 'cause I mean, that just came outta the oven, that's slowly gonna melt in too. Okay, donut bread pudding. (Paula chuckling) Okay, Bill. There you go. I only changed it just a wee little bit. What you think, girl? - [Aunt Peggy] Good. - Bill did good for a curb store dessert, but do make sure you add a Oh, that's pretty. It's pretty. Mm mm. Well, thank y'all for walking That show would be out there if you wanna go back and see the original. - [Aunt Peggy] It's on Oh it is? The original - [Aunt Peggy] Mm hmm. - Oh, yay! those shows on our YouTube channel. - See, that's wonderful. - I don't know if I could do without them telling me what's what. (Paula chuckling) Big brain. Love and best dishes, y'all. And Bill, I hope you're still kickin', developin' new recipe. Hey, y'all, it's Paula Deen. Now, if you enjoyed this video, and click the subscribe button bell to be alerted Love and Best Dishes Y'all.