The Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant is a child of the war. And in November we will celebrate its 80th anniversary. I have no idea how to talk about those days in the fall of 1941, when thousands of wagons with evacuated machines left Moscow. And it was necessary to launch immediately the production of trucks and missiles in inhuman conditions. It cannot be called anything other than a feat. 4 terrible years are left behind, and a difficult return to a peaceful life lies ahead. And today we will talk about the car that opened a new page in the history of the Ulyanovsk Automobile Plant. It was with the GAZ-69 that the formation of the world-famous enterprise and the UAZ brand began, which we have long loved for its simple and strong off-road vehicles. It will be all the more interesting to plunge into the post-war period in order to study various technical solutions. TITLE: THE PIONEER. History of GAZ-69 I have long been going to get to know this car better. Imagine my surprise when I found out that our old acquaintance, a famous automobile historian, could help us with this . My son and I went to Tula to experience all the features of this legendary car. Good afternoon, Nikolai! Good day! We know Nikolay from the video about the Jubilee UAZ Loaf. Gaz-69 is the predecessor of the Loaf, right? Yes, it's a direct predecessor. How old is this particular car? It was made in 1964. 90000 km on the speedometer. Nobody knows the real mileage. But it survived the most alive! Well, let's go for a ride first? Please get in! Everything is unusual. You need to press a button on the floor to start it. The first impression, looking from the 21st century, is a heavy vibration of every part of the car. As if you are sitting on a motor! And of course, an unprecedented shaking on a seemingly level road. I try to smooth the picture as much as possible so as not to tire you. But let me give the raw footage for a few seconds so that you understand how it was. On the front seats it is more or less acceptable, but on the rear benches you have to hold on very tightly. On the hummocks you feel like riding a rollercoaster! It is impossible to shoot a video, you need to grab the handrails with both hands. But in the 1950s it was still much better and faster than in a cart or by foot. It should be noted that the steering wheel is quite light, and one would recall the nostalgic touch - the jumping speedometer needle. Now let's stop and study it in more detail. The design of the car is amazing, but why did they deviate so much from the rough, simple forms of the previous utilitarian GAZ-67? Was this redundancy necessary? Well, it's not practical, and at the same time expensive to stamp such fenders! Well, to some extent, GAZ designers were really carried away by fashion, but they tried to create a single corporate identity. You notice immediately that the GAZ 51, 63 and 69 are clearly models of the same plant with the same face. In the details, everything is different, but you put them side by side - they are from the same plant. But with regard to the ease of manufacture. After all, the 69th car was designed using new technologies at a completely different level. If you put the GAZ-69 and 67 next to each other, you'll see that 67 is much smaller. But at the same time, GAZ-69 is only 200 kilograms heavier. But it takes twice as many people, twice as much cargo load. How much more spacious is its body! And in terms of stamping the fenders. The fender of the 67th car is also quite complex. It also required stamps, it required the manual assembly of individual parts with each other. Bolted connections. And if we compare the complexity of its assembly with this fender, it seems to me that this one is even easier to make! Yes, it is probably more difficult to repair, if it is crumpled. But how strong it is! And you can bend the 67th fender with the hands. What was wrong with the legendary 67th? After all, it was a key WW2 vehicle. Less then 10 years have passed since the start of its production! It did not suit the military for many reasons. First of all, for low reliability and lifetime. This car demanded attention to itself all the time! Let's compare the engines. You probably remember that the engine from GAZ-AA truck migrated to the 67th car. It didn't even have replaceable liners that we are used to today. After a very short period of time it was required to do an overhaul of the engine with re-filling babbitt in the crankshaft bearings And wherever you dig into the 67th car, everything is very delicate. For example, the springs. Leaves simply broke from shock loads. Why was he also called a goat? It jumped, because the shock absorbers did not do their job well. And this gives an extra load to the springs. Very small! The clutch did not last long there, and in order to change it normally, it was necessary to lift the body from the frame! When did the future GAZ-69 take shape as a project? Many sources say it was in 1946, that is, immediately after the war. And how was it really? Well, the 1946 is the correct answer, because the decree of the USSR Council of Ministers was issued at that time. It ordered the plant to start developing this machine. And the main customer formulated the tactical and technical requirements also in 1946. The project was called LWAT. Lightweight wheeled artillery tractor. And in those tactical and technical requirements, it was immediately stated that this vehicle should have a folding tarpaulin roof with a cargo platform. It should transport 6 soldiers with ammunition or cargo. And also a wide unification of the GAZ-69 with other cars was planned. Namely, with cargo models 51 and 63 that were being developed by the Molotov Automobile Plant. And also with a passenger car, which we all know as &quot;Pobeda&quot; (Victory). And if we talk about a cell in the car classification, the plant was asked to develop such a vehicle even earlier. In February 1943, when a meeting of automotive engineers was held in Moscow. People's Commissariat of Medium Machine Building had to resolve a fundamental issue: what cars will be produced by all our plants in the very near future. So it all started in 1943? It turns out that the guns in Stalingrad did not have time to subside, as the government conceived a whole technological revolution? After all, on February 2 1943, the remnants of Paulus's sixth army surrendered, and on February 3rd, the planning of a post-war life began? Yes, exactly. On the 2nd of February, the troops of the Don Front completed the liquidation of the 300 000 grouping, and on February the 3rd, the very events took place in Moscow. That very meeting had a very profound impact on the development of the entire Soviet automobile industry in the post-war years. If we are talking about what was embodied in the series, then first of all, these are the GAZ-51 and GAZ-63 trucks. Together with them, the design of the M20 began. A &quot;Victory&quot; passenger car. A little later, they managed to start the development of the 69th car. And if you remember what was not embodied, then this is the GAZ-33 three-axle. This truck type was eventually given to the Stalin Moscow Automobile Plant, and it turned into the ZIS-151. The working title of the car is quite peaceful. The Worker! But the customers are exclusively military, who needed a tractor to carry guns. How can such a paradox be explained? You probably noticed that in our country all military equipment traditionally bears the kindest, most peaceful names. Let's remember: Carnation, Acacia, Poplar. Let's pause for a second and watch a newsreel of the incredible military trials that took place in 1950s. Now the GAZ-69 will swim across the Moskva River. A breakwater is installed , a simple snorkel, the exhaust is brought out above the line of windows. At the stern sits a man with a rudder. Holds up and goes well! Is it known how many cars were supplied to the army, and how many went to civilians? Was it more like a soldier or a worker? Unfortunately, I cannot answer this question. All our archival research did not lead us to the exact figures of how many vehicles went to the Army and to the national economy. We did not find this division. How did a military tractor end up in civilian hands? GOSPLAN distributed a certain amount of funds among all ministries in the country. These funds were used to transfer them to the national economy. Since 1960, the wholesale price just for civilian consumers was 1280 rubles. Each Gaz-69 produced in Ulyanovsk, brought the car plant 101 ruble of revenue. A good indicator. Can we say that this is a simplified and modified Victory car? It has minimum of its own parts. Frame, body, something else? Well, the most important original part here is, of course, the transfer case. The second detail is the axles. At first, they tried to unify them with the GAZ-67b. Later, before launching into the series, it was nevertheless unified with Victory. But we should also not forget that these are not so much the finalized units from the Victory, but also from the ZIM. For example, a gearbox with synchronizers was first developed for ZIM. The first gear is not synchronized, but there is a synchronizer for the second and third. The steering mechanism is also from ZIM, more durable. Clutch is also enhanced compared to Victory. Is it true that this transfer case with a reduction gear appeared for the first time on a Soviet mass-produced passenger car on the GAZ-69? Yes, it was on this machine that this concept was worked out for the first time. The GAZ-67 had a single-gear transfer case. The lowering in the transmission was provided by the first gear in the gearbox, which was very short. The gearbox itself was from the truck. The engineers found it possible not to make the demultiplier in the transfer case. Why is the tailpipe so short? On prototypes, they first tried to make the classic long tract with an exhaust pipe under the tailgate. But on tests, this scheme showed a significant leakage of exhaust gases into the so-called cabin. Because of this, they tried to redo and bring the pipe under the right threshold. I don't know how much it helped. Just from my own experience of driving this car. When you stand, for example, at a traffic light, this exhaust gas seeps inside through the right door. The windshield frame is lowered. This, as I understand it, for disguise? For transportation by airplanes, also to facilitate camouflage. And when I was a child we all argued with the boys - what are these hooks on the hood for? The height in this state is one and a half meters and two centimeters. But if the tires are lowered, then we will just keep within one and a half meters. Well, it's an interesting constructor! And it's not just the windshield frame that is foldable! The glass itself can be opened separately from the frame. And this is to facilitate the driving on very dusty roads. If you are driving with a closed tarp, dust flies into the cabin body from all loose sections of it. It stands like a real wall in front of your eyes. You open the glass - the incoming air stream blows this dust away and you see the road. In UAZ-469, this will no longer be available. But the doorways will become wider. Here they are strikingly narrow. Are there any other unusual solutions for off-road use? Well, a set of entrenching tools. On this side we have a shovel, on the other side - a crowbar. Heavy-duty towing hooks, of course. The suspension travel is very large in comparison with a passenger car. The ground clearance is just 215 millimeters on this car, but these 215 millimeters are on such a narrow area, and there is much more space around. This car is too rare and valuable for off-road adventures, but you can roughly figure out its potential. It does not notice such obstacles. Speaking about off-road, we must not forget that we have it for six months in the country, and maybe even longer. I mean winter. Let's talk about starting the engine when temperatures are below 0degC (32 degF). By the way, no locks were provided. Let's say the battery is good. Pumped up fuel the with a handle on a gasoline pump. The carburetor is more modern here, but this is a standard upgrade. We close the blinds to keep out the frosty air. If the car spent the night on the street, then you need to bring and pour a bucket of hot water into the radiator. Antifreeze was not so common back then. But a pre-heater could be installed for the military. We went down to the inspection pit to show a special bracket for attaching it to the frame. It warmed up the engine oil. A well-thought-out system! Isn`t the motor weak? Is it true that this was a step back? The engine turned out to be less powerful than on the GAZ-67, and at the same time the weight of the car increased by 200 kilograms. If we compare the dynamic indicators, they will turn out, oddly enough, to be the same. At the same time, the 69th is also much more economical than the 67. So, after all, everything was done correctly. Let's explain why the suspension is so rigid? Compared to the GAZ-67, it is soft here. That's just again from personal experience. When I crossed the tram lines for the first time on GAZ-67, I almost fell out of the car! Because I was driving at a pace of other cars. 20 kilometers per hour across the tram lines. I grabbed the frame of the windshield so as not to fly out of there! After GAZ-67 this car is a limousine. Very soft and comfortable. How far could you go without changing oils and greases? Say, if we decided to drive today from Tula to Kamchatka, would we make the first 1000 kilometers to Izhevsk? No. 500 kilometers and please visit the pit to grease the kingpins. There are several grades of maintenance. Certain routine maintenance for 500 kilometers, 1000 kilometers, 3000 kilometers and 6000 kilometers. Well... Greasing the kingpins every 500 kilometers ... I remember how old chaps in our garages boasted that they had mastered this procedure so much that they could do it very quickly, without even getting their white shirt dirty. At 6000 km you will have to drive into the garage, well, probably for the whole day, or even two. Was it a matter of the quality of the lubricants, or was it due to the construction itself? All together. The quality of the materials from which the machines were made, and the technologies that were used. Materials of those liners. Naturally, the quality of lubricants is completely unacceptable by today's standards. Now the stop signals. What could be more simple? But no! The so-called &quot;frog-switch&quot; is not located on the brake pedal, but somewhere under the bottom and is triggered by the pressure in the system! That is, albeit with a small, but with a delay. But we were pleased with the fuses. There are only three of them. The middle one is slightly pulled out of the nest. It carries almost a meter of wire! If something burns out, you fix the malfunction, then you pull out the fuse, unwind the wire (about 2 cm/1 inch), and put it in the clamps. You stick the fuse back and drive further. You don't have to go to the store. Now the air filter. Functions on waste oil. How? This is a poster from Moskvich-407 car of that time. The fresh air is sucked from above into this pot, at the bottom of which there was about 0.5L of used motor oil. The air stream dived directly into the oil, which trapped the dust, then the stream turned sharply upwards and passed through a dense mesh that trapped oil droplets. Every 3000 km, the oil had to be changed. The second free filter is a coarse oil filter. There are plates that accumulate various dirt from the oil system. They need to be turned regularly with a handle to remove deposits that will then fall into the sump. We are now looking at these plates. There are about 300 of them. There is another segment that separates the two rings and removes all the dirt from them. The filter is quite functional. The maintenance procedure was carried out before our trip to fields and forests. This plug was unscrewed. The blackening sediment came out. So everything was thought of and works up to this day. The fuel filter also does not need replacement. It's just a sump with a drain plug. And finally, the only filter that needs a replaceable part! Here comes the paper filter for fine oil purification. Essentially, it's only the paper that needs to be changed. There is no need to buy and throw away every time a metal cup with thread and valves. This black case serves as a filter cup. How environmentally friendly and budget saving it was! But the filter is not full-flow. Works in parallel. It collects something from the oil system and that's good enough. The location of the right fuel tank and filler neck under the passenger seat is a very optimistic decision. The left tank is even more interesting. The filler pipe runs through the wheel arch, and the tank itself rests against a block of wood. Such a spacer so that you can tightly pull it to the body with clamps. And we finally found the cause of all the vibrations in the cabin. The body stands firmly on the frame without any rubber spacers. The towing device for carrying the gun has such a spring damper on the inside. The footpegs underneath have a rather complex attachment to the frame and body. These are the old-fashioned lever arm shock absorbers. Not telescopic as nowadays. And springs had 11 leaves. The real bit of biscuit is the tranfer case drain plug. It was hidden behind the traverse - the cross member of the frame. Not a problem. Hole was made in the traverse to give access to the plug. Let's get back to history. The car was developed in three years and all the materials were handed over to the archive. A set of schemes and drawings - how does it look like in practice? Are these several volumes, rolls? Look, for example, take a tarp roof. A set of drawings for it contains of 3 jam-packed folders for papers. Now imagine the volume for the whole car. When was the release decision finally made? What became that very last straw? The last straw was the state acceptance tests, which the car successfully passed in 1951. Just to understand, the 1st prototype appeared in 1947. The 1-st year of production. Somewhere they write 1951, somewhere 1953. Serial production began on August 25, 1953. That is, after Stalin's death? Are these some related events? No, there is no direct connection with Stalin here. But there is a connection with the works on amphibians at GAZ. This was a rather unpleasant and long story concerning the creation of the GAZ 011 cars, and SFV-3 (Small Floating Vehicle) amphibians. And the engineering staff was switched to these amphibians. So, there was a delay in the development of the 69th car. As we already said in our video about The Loaf, after 1951, the plant in Ulyanovsk stopped producing cars. It was switched to various classified products. Other sources mention quite peaceful teapots and shovels. Meanwhile, in August 1953, the production of GAZ-69 began in Gorky, and soon, in order to unload the plant, the production of this vehicle was transferred to Ulyanovsk. And a new era began. UAZ began to specialize in light off-road vehicles. It experienced a new birth and became that very UAZ that we still know. And here comes another question. UAZ name is written on the hood, but the model is called GAZ-69. It is often called UAZ-69. Where is the truth? You can see it on the nameplate. Despite the place of production, the car always carried the GAZ brand. Almost immediately after the start of production, the UAZ engineers began to offer options for modernizing the car. For example, a more powerful engine. And they succeeded! As a result, the top-end export version of the GAZ-69 in the early 1970s, what was it like? They began to install the engine made the very first batches of GAZ-21 Volga. This is essentially the same motor, only bored out to increase volume. It was forced to 65 h.p. This led to a bunch of other accompanying problems. The main one is the tendency to detonate, even if a higher octane gasoline is used. But it still began to develop sixty-five horses. The power-to-weight ratio of the vehicle has increased at least to some extent. You are driving it from time to time. What are your impressions of the regular Gaz-69 made in 1964 in the modern traffic? Is 55 h.p. enough? Seems to be enough. But exactly until a long ascent begins on the road, even a very insignificant one in terms of steepness. Already in the middle of the climb, 2nd gear is required. So, the speed is about 20-30 kilometers per hour. It will not accelerate any faster. Several modifications were developed in Ulyanovsk. They were already called UAZ. A dump truck, a tractor. But few made it to the assembly line. How extensive was the civil product line in reality? In reality, there was no product line. There was an export modification with improved build quality. There was a tropical modification with the replacement of a number of rubber items with special varieties. Later, towards the very end of the car's production, an export modification appeared with the letter M, which was distinguished by a forced engine. Well, that's basically everything. Other modifications were produced only for the army. First of all, a car with the letter E, with shielded electrical equipment. And there were UAZ-915 and 915 B. This is exclusively special equipment for the needs of the Air Force. The most amazing car, in my opinion, is a mine detector. Did you manage to dig up something else unusual in the archives? If we take into account the machines that were designed by third-party organizations... Probably the most interesting vehicle is the sidewalk sweeper. I saw these in my earliest childhood. We lived in Moscow, in a communal apartment. These cars drove quite briskly on the sidewalks. Later I read that they were actually produced in Moscow. What was inside? A large bunker was placed in the back for scattering sand. Under the body there is a brush, and the blade in the front. In my opinion, this is the most interesting car that was made at this base. That's for sure! GAZ-19 only with rear wheel drive. There was such a project, but why didn't it go? We did not find a documented answer to this question . Well, yes, it was really supposed to make a van out of the GAZ-19 model. A simple cargo van. It was supposed to make a postal version of the GAZ-19A. Perhaps UAZ simply did not have the technological capabilities at that time to make an all-metal body. Just a guess. But in North Korea, the rear-wheel drive version has become very popular. Here's a pickup or a &quot;heel&quot;, as we call them. Obviously not expensive and hard to destroy. A simple front axle beam is clearly visible in this photo . No driveshafts or axle shafts. Gaz-69 in the USSR. What kind of phenomenon it was? Can we say that the &quot;goat&quot; became the vehicle that replaced the horse? Let's recall the picture of the collective farm of the 1950s. Who had such a car? It could be only at the chairman's disposal. And was the regular transport for everyone else? GAZ-51, a truck. Or even a motorcycle, or a horse. The one that needed replacement. But it took a very long time to replace the horse. Here is a famous photograph from the late 1970s. This is a street near the Yugo-Zapadnaya metro station in Moscow. A resident of the nearby Nikulino village rode a horse and buggy around the new district. What can we say about remote villages. But this question was raised by Nikita Sergeevich Khruschev! What did he demand from our engineers? &quot;We need a car that can walk like a horse in deep snow!&quot; What did our inventors answer? Well, it was the turn of the 50s and 60s. The engineers, of course, responded with a whole series of dedicated snowmobiles. Experiments were carried out very widely in relation to the GAZ-69. Fortunately, we managed to find rare footage of those tests. The designs are incredible! I was especially surprised by this approach with a cogwheel, which had to cling to the ground under the snow. But this was not suitable for all latitudes. The car froze helplessly in the deep snow. The combination of skis and cogwheels also turned out to be a dead end. It seems that everything worked out well with the belt propeller. They have achieved satisfactory driving performance and handling on snow of any depth. But the carrying capacity was low. It turned out that it was useless to try to make a real all-terrain vehicle out of a passenger car. It will still be inferior to special vehicles. At the same time, one of the prototypes of the GAZ-66 was redone. Unfortunately, none of the cars turned out to fully meet the technical specifications. None of these developments, and there were at least 6 of them on the GAZ-69 platform, reached the conveyor. Family tree of Gaz-69. How would it look? It derives from the Victory car. A separate branch is military vehicles. And one branch returned back to Victory and M72 appeared. The world's first SUV with a monocoque body. Of course, we must add here floating cars based on the GAZ-69. The GAZ-46 small floating vehicle was developed. And probably we can pull here &quot;by the ears&quot; the four-wheel drive Moskwitch cars. After all, we can recall the small M73 car, developed at GAZ, which conceptually formed the basis for the future four-wheel drive Moskwitch. The transfer case was almost identical. And of course the Loaf grew out of the GAZ-69. But before that, the transportation of the wounded was envisaged in Gaz-69 . Yes, yes, theoretically it could carry four of them on the stretchers. Well, I can imagine transporting one stretcher here. To do this, you can fold the back of the front seat forward, and indeed, there is enough space for hanging one stretcher here. 4 stretchers, 2 tiers each - this is certainly too much. There is not enough room for this. Actually, this is how the idea was born to produce a special vehicle UAZ-450A. This is a first true Ulyanovsk model. If anyone does not know, the wheelbase of the GAZ-69 and the Loaf is the same. It turns out, it didn`t change from the 1950s! Interestingly enough, it was not possible to remove the outdated Gaz-69 from production until the early seventies. What is this story? They didn't want to launch long-developed next generation of 4x4s! One article even said that there was a whole support group for the old GAZ-69! &quot;There is no need to change it, it is in many ways better than the new one!&quot; What did they hold on to? The reason is very simple - the lack of funds at the Ministry of Automotive Industry at that time. The car is certainly honored, but no better than the UAZ-469. Of course, this replacement had to be done as quickly as possible. And only intervention at the highest level changed the situation. Was the car specially taken to Moscow? It was a whole special operation to deliver the prototypes of UAZ-469 vehicles to Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev, so that he could see, know better, try and give a command. The operation was successful! Confirmation of this is the hundreds of thousands of UAZ cars on the roads of our country. What parts of the 69th moved on to the 469th? If we talk about some key ones, but only with small nuances. These are UAZ-469 axles that have been integrated into the latest production batches of GAZ-69 vehicles. Oh, yes! Remember, we discussed the history of hub locks? New, more reliable axles first appeared on The Loaf, they also went to the civil UAZ-469B. And in 1970, they were given to Gaz-69, who was still on the conveyor. Anything else was inherited by newer models besides the headlights and steering wheel? Only very minor items. For example, the engine compartment light. It has remained the same until now, even on Gazelle and Sobol cars being produced at the moment. Exactly the same as on the GAZ-69. This commander's light also migrated further, but it was no longer installed on the UAZ Hunter. I decided to restore historical justice and returned the lamp to its place. Very comfortable and beautiful. Is it fair to say that success of the Niva is also a merit of the UAZ engineers? After all, their contribution to the creation of the Niva was colossal! Probably, it would be more correct to say that this is not the merit of the UAZ people alone, but the merit of the entire domestic auto industry of that time. After all, what is the auto industry of the USSR? This was a large corporation somewhat similar by structure, for example, to General Motors. There are many factories, each of them seems to be working on their own, but at the same time for one common goal. Where did the personnel for the young automobile plant in Togliatti come from? These are both GAZ and UAZ people. It was their joint effort that led to the birth of the masterpiece. This idea can be turned to a sensation! The Niva transmission has already been invented once in the late 30s. This is a fairly well-known reconnaissance vehicle, abbreviated as AR-NATI. The advanced &quot;Soviet Willis&quot; that didn't reach the conveyor. But, before it, the same institute created the BA-NATI armored car with an interaxle differential in a transfer case. It was possible to switch on a permanent full drive through the center differential, a rear-wheel drive and only front-wheel drive could be selected. To summarize - if we let our engineers unleash their potential, we get a breakthrough! Guys, the end of the 1930s! The Soviet &quot;Super-Select&quot; transmission! Well, the concept of the intermediate shaft, the driveshafts are located without large angles - all this was worked out on GAZ-69. And in the Niva we saw a similar scheme. And do not laugh at the Nikolay's phrase that the Niva is a masterpiece. Here is a photo of the export version with a steering wheel on the right side. It was taken in UK in the 90s. Many people all over the world fell in love with it at first sight. For all the years of GAZ-69 production, only about 150 000 units were exported, and Niva has already gained 50 000 buyers in the first 3 years of export sales. Of those countries where GAZ-69 was supplied, one can single out China, Hungary, Bulgaria, Iran, Iraq, Indonesia and, for example, Iceland! 341 cars! Yes, this is an amazing story. Iceland was sanctioned and it was not allowed to sell SUVs to the country. The Soviet Union offered help, and local importers arranged for a metal top to be installed. The result is just beautiful! Well, then Niva has smoothly entered the market! Watch the movie The Incredible Life of Walter Mitty. There the hero escapes from a volcanic eruption on the Niva. It turns out that the GAZ-69 literally made its way in the export markets for itself and our other SUVs. These cars are also variations on our base. Another question is that this potential has remained unrealized. But in one small European country they showed us how it should be done. In Romania, our Gaz-69 was simply assembled with almost no changes. But then they went further and made comfortable bodies. These ARO 24, 244 in the 80s just shocked me. Crosslander! They looked incredibly light and elegant. Just a dream! Yes, there were diesel ones and they were sold throughout Europe. In Romania, it was a kind of a luxury car. If our UAZ Simbir appeared in 1979 right before the Olympics, can you imagine how many of them would have spread across the planet? What path the UAZ brand could have traveled over the years and what would be produced now? So, definitely there was a reason to call that period &quot;stagnation&quot;. When could an ordinary person freely buy a GAZ-69? During the years of production of this car, he could not. Sale to private hands was not envisaged. This could be done only after the cars were written off by the public entities either for scrap or into the hands of employees. Try to guess, until what year was Gaz-69 serving in the army? It turns out, that it was used until 1994! It's a real Worker, indeed! Almost 40 years of service, comparable to the usual work experience. And I remember how these cars retired in the 90s and fell into the hands of retired people. Our neighbour bought a GAZ-69 still in good condition. The car was almost 25 years old. Of course, not so flashy, but also with benches in the back. The car was parked next to the apartment block. He often started the car with a handle. Now I'll try to remember how to hold it correctly not to injure the fingers. Let's try? That's good! So, the corpulent neighbour with great difficulty squeezed into the front seat. Is it true that in the 1940s people were thinner? 1st gear is engaged to the left and backward. And one day a neighbor offered to give me a lift in his GAZ-69 on the way. I climbed onto the bench from behind. It was a late autumn. Inside the car it felt cold and humid like in a rotten wooden barn. Dark, uncomfortable, shaking, noisy. Wind and rain blows through the tarp valve, wet leaves are on the floor. But the car served him every day for a long time. In winter, a neighbour would come down from the 4th floor with a bucket of hot water. He started the engine and drove away. That's how it was. Now you need to turn off the mass. With your left hand back, you grope there for a power switch under the seat on the back wall. Got it? And a small round button. Now do the &quot;chpok&quot; ! Oh, great! What other cars are in Nikolai garage? All about 4-wheel drive. We discussed GAZ-67 a little. Recently they found such a very rare Moskwich, there will be restoration. Work is certainly endless, it is really old. Found some interesting details. The owner ordered hub locks for Moskwich at that time. I hope to start it up with this key one day and show this to you. But now the work is in full swing on a very large-scale project. Here's the motor ... and here's where they pulled it from. This is the rarest all-wheel drive PAZ in the northern version. Can you imagine what it is like to restore an entire bus? The volume is just colossal. This whole panel, the round shaped stamping, it's all made from a brand new flat metal sheet. My son and I constantly monitor the progress of work, this is a whole series in photographs. I will place a link to the master in the description under the video. Join us. And if you want us to make a detailed series about this bus, please write in the comments section. Ready to shoot when it is back on the road. What role does this particular Gaz-69 play in the life of your family in the 21st century? We drive this car only a couple of times a year for a ride in a summer city in the evening or to a festival like the Tula Autostrada. But, I have slightly different memories associated with the GAZ-69 in the 21st century. Back in the very, very beginning of the 2000s, when I was still young and innocent, my friends and I took part in trophy raids. A very popular hobby at that time. We had an ordinary GAZ-69. The only difference - there was an UAZ-469 overhead valve motor. And we once won a two-day competition on this completely standard car! I guess it was in 2003. The competitors were very strong. For example, Toyota and UAZ on big wheels. The first day program included orienteering in the forest. We did well, got into the middle of the list. And on the second day there was an obstacle course. A lot of spectators gathered on a rather small territory. We were lucky, we drove first. And there was a puddle along the way, let's say a swamp, through which a small river flowed. We on this light GAZ, slipped through the untouched ford, and everyone else after us got stuck and we won. Let's try to summarize. Can we say that Gaz-69 was ahead of its time compared to the competitors? I think it will not be very correct. At the time of its appearance, it really was a world-class car. It was able to compete with Land Rover first of all, with the Americans. We saw the export sales. In general, they were substantial for a Soviet car. But I would not say that it was ahead of the world level. Moreover, I would not talk about some kind of advance in the 60s, and even more so in the early 70s. If all those upgrades were introduced on time, Gaz-69 would remain more competitive. Do you remember the overhead valve engine? It was developed and adapted to that car in 1958. And with it the car would definitely be a serious competitor to new Western models at least until 1965. Let's wish UAZ people something good on the occasion of the upcoming 80th anniversary. Please, install a good diesel engine into UAZ cars! I fully support! And I would like to wish the plant to keep the unique design of its models in the world of faceless gadgets on the wheels. Thank you so much for the historical perspective, for a ride in the old car! Please, come back. Soon we will finish GAZ-67b and Moskwitch-410, so there will be something to talk about. We will definitely come back, we do not say bye-bye! Nikolay, good luck! All the best! Of course, today we went through the milestones only. There is much more information in the book. You can still purchase it, for example, as a gift for those who are keen on the history of our car industry. Less than 500 copies are left. You will be pleased to know that the money from the sale of this and other books will be spent on the restoration of those very rare Soviet cars. The link is in the description below. And I remember a classic slogan: &quot;The book is the best gift!&quot; Special thanks to Alexander Zudin for his help with rare Soviet newsreels. His channel has a lot of unique videos on our cars. Please, subscribe and immerse yourself in the atmosphere of those years. And if you need to digitize your films, feel free to contact Alexander, the link is in the description under the video. I decided to insert another 40 seconds of pure sound in order to compare something. I recommend everyone to drive retro cars sometimes. Very good for clearing the mind! Be sure to subscribe to the channel not to miss our future videos. See you!