- [Voiceover] We're going to talk about a pair of really important structures in the male reproductive They sit inside the scrotum, and have two really primary functions. First, they produce the which is his sperm. Second, they make the majority of the major male hormone, testosterone, but we'll really only discuss the sperm production role for now. So let's look inside the So inside we find this really convoluted set of tubes in light blue here. These are called seminiferous tubules. The sperm are actually and the testosterone is made that hang out on the Anyway, the sperm are made and they travel out of the tubules and into the epididymis to mature and get ready to head to try and find an egg to fertilize. So to appreciate the and how it all happens, we need to take a look inside So let's take a look inside. This is a cross section of the tubule, sort of magnified so we can see So this light blue is a muscle like layer through the tubules and so it does this via, sort contractions that move in a The coordinated movement so if you think about from the bottom to the top to get a little bit of toothpaste out, peristalsis is pretty similar to that. So, anyway, after leaving the sperm, sort of, drain of tubes here called the rate testis, then after the rate testis where they hang out to mature So that's just a little bit on peristalsis and the movement of the but back to the cross section here. These radially arranged they're called sertoli cells, and just so you're aware, sertoli cells are packed in a way more crowded fashion. This is just an easy, of looking at them and seeing which you'll soon see. So the general idea is that sperm develop between two sertoli cells, and they sort of develop between the two cells By the way, a lumen is a hole down the center of a hollowed tube, so, for example, the is the part where the So let's get to the details We'll zoom in here on, but we really could pick anywhere along these tubes because and let's say this here is a sertoli cell, and there's a sertoli but I'll just put S to and that light blue bit up top that does peristalsis, so this purple cell here, what is that? That's called a spermatiogonium, and you have these spermatogonium between each set of They're sort of the precursor They're the actual germ cell so they go through different in a process called differentiation until they form what we know as sperm. So, immediately, you might think, &quot;Well, what if these &quot;down the pathway to become mature sperm, &quot;what happens when they all do that? &quot;Won't we run out of spermatogonium?&quot; And that's a great thought, so how that problem is solved under go mitosis and split one will differentiate into down the pathway of making mature sperm, and the other one will just so it'll give rise to another two cells, and one will differentiate, and one will keep being a So let's officially start here. Our spermatogonium will and one of the daughter into a primary spermatocyte. We'll just draw that one. Remember, the other is to being a germ cell, a spermatogonium, so this primary spermatocyte here has to cross over this linkage between the two sertoli cells, that's called a tight junction, and the tight junction effectively One up here, and that's Basal because it's closest to the base or the basal region of the sertoli cells, and one compartment down here because it includes that So because they're by the tight junction here, these two different compartments have really different They have different signaling molecules and proteins floating around in them, and that helps each compartment to bring on a different for our developing sperm. Anyway, back to the tight junction. It sort of senses the primary spermatocyte coming close and it opens up, and the primary spermatocyte moves through and starts to enlarge by because it's actually and differentiate into two and then that tight junction actually reforms super quickly behind it, like before the primary and the idea behind that quick reformation of the tight junction is so from one compartment into the other, so that their environments can stay pretty different to each other. So back to our primary spermatocyte. It's passed through and it hasn't really changed except enlarging a little bit by so now it divides and differentiates into two secondary spermatocytes, but there's actually a between the division that to produce the primary spermatocyte and the new spermatogonium, that division was by mitosis, and this division where divides to create two This is called meiosis. So they sound similar, mitosis, meiosis, but in mitosis you enlarge and split into two identical daughter cells that are genetically identical but in meiosis you give half of your chromosomes. So each primary spermatocyte and each chromosome is a and you probably notice have all undergone crossing over. They're a mixture of pink and blue from homologous chromosomes so just a reminder, that were created from but at a certain point, decide to undergo meiosis. So prophase one starts in and crossing over happens in and then metaphase one, and and cytokinesis happen into two secondary spermatocytes. So when the primary into secondary spermatocytes, they give each of their daughter cells a half of their chromosomes, so now each secondary has 23 chromosomes, still with a sister chromatid each. So now what happens? Well, we have our secondary spermatocytes. Each having 23 chromosomes in sister chromotid configuration, and now they need to differentiate. So they do, they differentaite into spermatids, which are are starting to look something like sperm, and two spermatids per secondary So there would be four here, but I've only drawn in the spermatids from one of the secondaries. I've only drawn two in, and notice that these spermatids, they're a little bit more They get a lot of nutrients that way. Importantly, though, from secondary the second half of meiosis happens, what's called meiosis two. So meiosis one was completed earlier when we went from primary spermatocytes to secondary spermatocytes, and by undergoing the we further reduce the So instead of 23 chromosomes these newly made spermatids each have 23 single copies of each chromosome. And we need sperm to have only because after a sperm the eggs end up with also so when their nuclei fuse, they create a set of twenty One set from the father's sperm and one set from the mother's egg, and that's what we want. So now for the last step that happens in between the sertoli cells. The spermatids differentiate One spermatozoa per spermatid in a process called sperspermiogenesis, and each spermatozoa has a So notice that one primary spermatocyte ends up giving rise to four sperm. Remember, what you see here So you should see two more spermatozoa because I've only shown the products of one of the secondary spermatocytes. So down here at the we're not exactly done yet. The immature sperm still has to mature into sperm of carrying out fertilization, so in the epididymitis they and they gain longer flagella, and at that point they're in hopes of fertilizing an egg.