This video is sponsored by Surfshark VPN. Well looks like you're going to have a lot of doesn't really matter. Currently you're a massive you at all times. At least you only weigh a couple a new member in the troop... well nearly the coming to an end so after a long day of suckling it's time to get some sleep. It's now been 3 only cause you're strong enough to cling to her begin to get a taste for your environment. Not to worry daddy's nice and gentle with you. You're now 6 months old and have seen enough yourself thing, so for the first time you starts off as an expert, which also applies to old. Eh for now that doesn't really matter as you one year old and really getting the hang of this from mom. Which leaves you open to attack. As you older siblings you're not only learning how to social skills, and having fun. He never wants to couple years you continue to explore further and and practicing your social skills. Although you do 3 years old and are now fully weaned. You are specific. Or as a scientist call you gorilla though. After everyone wakes up dad signals to for short distances but prefer to also use your walking. After traveling half a mile dad decides you the go ahead and you all start obliterating bits of vegetation like the stalks and roots. so he signals for nap time. All the adults make of energy and not sure why everyone just wants to away with that now. The afternoon rolls around and exciting might happen. Oh well, guess you could favourite making up a large chunk of your diet. As it alone. You're actually tired now, so after you lie down and shut your eyes. What's going on? We're missing a family member. Dad steps up and news. They'll be long gone now. The next day the gives a signal and it's time to move on. For the deforestation, though your version is actually a weaker animals to also reach the nutritious parts, forest can continue to thrive. Plus you always quick replenishment. Ah look who's decided to hide behind, then faces up to the threat. [Gorilla sounds and leopard roar] solved. Dad again proves why he's the leader and decides to take your safety a step further, by sponsor. You're 6 to 10 times stronger than a and as an animal with no permanent territory a potential gold mine for hackers. Surfshark VPN the information sent between your device and the public networks. Mum is sceptical but dad explains risk at all if it's not for her. Convinced. You've all use a treat and uses Surfshark to find the location, so you can all go and visit your close Cool. Similar to you same black skin, small fluffier, and they're bigger. It's now getting up before bed to watch your favourite show. lets you unblock content libraries and streaming your virtual location, so you can all still When you realize you're not interested in mum's the same issue. Not a problem. Surfshark lets the whole family can enjoy their own shows at the news for her is that you all signed up through the months. You can find this link in the description where's dad? He was never really excited to book for some peaceful alone time. A few more years means you've hit maturity but you're still not you slowly watch all the siblings you've grown feel ready, until you hit around 10 years old and gorilla. Okay you're alone now. First, go start a Probably already taken but that doesn't matter. On hurt you. Right you're never going to attract stronger, and have their silver hair already. You It's time to start grinding. Over the next four can become the most alpha gorilla around. You and soon they'll come begging for your protection. individuals to motivate each other on your ready. You are now a Silverback Gorilla. You did silver hair on your back giving you the name to communicate to others that they're mature, but you appear even bigger. Which you hope that lone leaves their natal group she has a choice. Go and back but be the lowest status and least important and form a new family as the highest status with option two. Congrats! You finally started decision to lead the group to some food, and after new member. After 8 and a half months she's ready That's because she's always had a large belly. because of your large intestines needed to digest All your hard work is paid off and your life is you've had a new member. You're experienced enough so, why not. As the new day dawns you instruct a fully grown adult you now have a full set of 32 two massive canines that are perfect for munching the tallest primate but you are the heaviest and this size you spend the morning making a start chewing requires some strong jaw muscles which you that allows for the attachment of the strong 10 strongest bite force. By midday the non-stop you now see why your parents always had nap time. What's going on now? fighting. You just wanted a nap but sorting out Finally back to bed. Oh look now are they're getting anything back. Time passes seasons Nutritious food has become scarce and you've on your shoulders. Leading the troop requires your there could be serious consequences. understand dad a bit more. Hard times means you I'm sure they won't mind. You know you're a bit to a wide array of plant species by tearing apart the seeds you eat so new life can continue to to move on. You continue on now looking for a nice the night. Oh this looks a bit different, why not not too deep. Perfect. After wading through the for the night. You eat a few little snacks that [Fire burning] Oh what? You just wanted to go to sleep in peace, like dad and the leopard. You stand up tall on your armpits as your hooting gets louder and attacks as as you fill up your air sacs, then hands for amplified sound. Finally some plants ground, then you display your teeth and charge, so. Great now you can get some well-deserved rest. It's been several years and you've expanded your size. Your first son should have really taking over the group when you die. He's still so it'll be a long wait. You're a bit cold you cancel the travel plans and make everyone have Nest from last night you still make [Sniff][Sniff] and if he wants to stay he can be the second line is. You'd recognize that nose anywhere. It's time days. It's not just you on the line here cause guess the same can be said for his kids as well. farmers, then charge each other. Okay that's and would rather just peacefully leave. As long where's your daughter gone? Can't believe she'd you go wrong? Oh yeah fair enough. Well you hope decision. The years go on and as long as there's troop. Ahh you remember the days when you could At 35 you might not have many years left but you about to celebrate the birth of your next child reveal a special one. Ah stupid chubby fingers. Thank you to Surfshark VPN for sponsoring this description for extra 4 months free.