Something I learned from improvising really There are basic improvising techniques and you become my mirror, and whatever I do, wherever same time, as if you were the mirror with Well, if I'm the person looking into the mirror unless I help you be my mirror? I'm responsible for your being with me in-sync And it's a wonderful image, a symbol of what you don't understand--it's my job to help In improvising, each improviser has the job You share the experience. The principle of "yes, and..." is an example It's an improvising tool to use this idea For instance, if we're in a scene together at all that water down there,&quot; and I say, maybe I'll get a laugh out of that from the and I've made you look foolish. You called it water, it's obviously a floor. That's not even "yes," it's just "no." And you can say "yes, but..." and cut "Yes, and: yeah, look at that water, let's onto the whale and swim away with the whale!" Now I've accepted what you've given me and This is a really valuable technique in communication: know that's not true." There's something about it that may be true. Maybe it's under the surface: the person is worked, and I think the universe works like we're all telepathically..." and it could agree at all. But the person is trying to figure out things, has the final answer on anything, I don't So you can say "yes" to that part of it you both can explore together. But the idea is, if you cut off the connection to keep the other person with you. And the way you do that, the way you keep the clues you're getting from the person: tone of voice, the body language, the way clues to what's going on in their head as And the funny thing is, I think I found that them face to face, it also works when they're when you write something for them and you when, but you can figure out when you put their mind. Where are they now? So where is my next sentence going to pick the next place? And if we don't think about the person we're in our head, we're caring about ourselves, I think communication is a partnership. You have to think about your partner and help It's not me pouring stuff into your empty First of all, you've got plenty of stuff in about. While I was writing this book I thought, not improvising class. And then I started to think: not only that, class. And this strange thing about empathy is, as tends to evaporate. It's very easy to lose your touch in making I see it happening to me, I see it happening So I thought, is there something I can do my empathy thermometer at a high enough temperature? So I started experimenting on myself. I love to experiment on myself. And I thought okay it has something to do I walk down the street, as I go into a restaurant figure out what they're feeling and maybe And I was talking to a psychologist about yourself?&quot; I said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; He said, &quot;I'd like to study that.&quot; So he did a study where he had people doing He gave them a standard empathy test at the week he gave them another empathy test to by doing this exercise, and he had other things interesting was: not only did their scores who only did it twice didn't go up very much during the week their scores went up considerably, that they thought they saw in the other person, your hair, noticing your eyes. What color are your eyes? It's amazing--just think about this the next do you talk to somebody you've just met before What shape is their eyebrow? What color clothing are they wearing? If it's a woman or a man, are they wearing What is it? Where did it come from? How are they sitting? What clue am I getting from them? We don't notice one another nearly as much the other people got higher scores in empathy And I found it has built up my empathy--at But I find myself much more comfortable with This is an amazing thing: I find other people Isn't that funny? Because I get a little more empathy about they're going through or what I can hear from by them I think: 'I think I know where this And just getting the explanation of what might thing they're saying, the annoyance kind of me a better person, it just gives me a little I find--and I think other people who have more patience associated with empathy. So in that regard it probably does make you But I noticed when I get more empathic my welcoming, and the funny thing is I think to. I think they're responding to what's happening tone, a more relaxed, accepting visage. It's a good idea to monitor your own empathy you experience it. And I'll give you kind of a concrete example I have a friend who went to a doctor with said, &quot;Oh my God, I think you've got plantar She got scared to death, she thought, 'Is heard the term before. And it's a painful condition, and he had had that she had this condition he thought, 'Oh I experience her pain.' He was swamped with her emotion. He was swamped with her pain. And I interviewed someone, in writing the to be empathic. And one of the things she teaches them is: head, but then you have to get out again. You have to manage your own empathy and you It becomes what she calls 'affective quicksand' part of the theory of empathy is that you because you feel it yourself, you recognize understanding of what they're going through. But if you sink into that feeling and get end of the communication then it's no longer you. You've got to have possession of your own