My name's John Mendoza. I'm a former member of the I was a category III, and I was a regimental commander in different parts of Northern California. And this is how crime works. I've been to San Quentin, Pelican Bay. In the early '90s, they put us out there with Southern Mexicans and the Aryan Brotherhood, Those were our enemies. They were putting us out and we were going out there fighting. If you were crafty enough we'll try to kill each other. I went to prison in 1988 Some of my older homeboys that were there in the county jail with me basically told me that that the NR is going to approach me about making a commitment. The first time I went out there was a group of individuals that were covered with tattoos. Those were the NR members. they put me on a 90-day It's like you're functioning but you're not an actual member. You can do anything Stabbing somebody, keeping holding paperwork, holding a weapon. A lot of guys that make a commitment because they want the Those guys are going to because they're not making the commitment for the right reasons. I was an NR member for People take notice when and you're not questioning authority, you're developing into a leader. Eventually the NF is going to approach you because the NR, in essence, is like the NF's training grounds. I think it was 1994, I was approached by two Smiley from Salinas and Induction process is similar to the NR. You go through an indoctrination process where you learn some of You have a sponsor, and you have the guy They're responsible for you. When you make a commitment to the NF, it's a lifetime commitment. I was asked things like, &quot;Are you willing to kill Are you willing to put before everything else in your life?&quot; Everything else that you were They write everything down. There's 14 bonds, which is, I used to call it my little toolbox. Everything that I needed within that movement -- You're encouraged to study things like Middle Eastern philosophy, Socrates, revolutionary literature like And then there's everything about how to make weapons. I can make a stabbing instrument It's all about how you roll it and then how you put the point on. When your membership is sanctioned, They'll get together with you maybe in a group setting They'll say something like, &quot;Today, we're welcoming Me, I was right there in and it was done similar. &quot;Hey, this brother's a carnal now. He's a Familiano from this point on. He's a member of the mob.&quot; It's like, I felt like a point in my career where I had really accomplished something. Everything that I've When a new arrival will come in, we'll get his information, we'll get his name, his CDC number, we'll get a little bit about his history. We'll get things like his aka, his age, his neighborhood, what they called him. We'll look on the BNL to make So, the BNL, the Bad News of everybody that's coming I'll send a filter out to all the members that are in that household, &quot;Have you done time with this individual? This guy just drove up. Do you know him?&quot; Any good or bad information, If nothing comes back, he'll Then at that point, he'll soap, shampoo, coffee, When you first come in to an they give you what's That's like your passport. The gangs, they're going but the only way you're is if they freely give it up. That's the only way we're going to get it. It's going to say on that lockup order whatever gang that you're affiliated with. It's going to say things like, if you got an S on your jacket, like a sex offense or something, it's going to say it right there. So somebody like that, you know, you got an S, they probably wouldn't even give up their 114 lockup order because they already know what time it is. If you decline to give up That's somebody that refused Somebody like that's out to the yard. If he tries to come out to the yard, he'll get hit at the gate. I mean, obviously there's a lot of perks with becoming a member like that. You're going to get that from a lot of the youngsters out there on the streets and in They call NF members, just like they call Mexican You're going to have a I've learned a lot of things even though I'm not a part of it no more. Things like conducting The NF is built, it's constructed or built A lot of the old NF members They're ex-Marines, so the structure of the and brought it to the NF. You have captains, lieutenants, commanders, a category I-er. Or for members that are just they have no status over anybody else. Then you have a cat II. They've shown that they and they can give a correct interpretation of the constitution. They'll become teachers for the cat Is. Now, in order to become a cat III, it's the cream of the crop. Then you have the inner that basically make the decisions for the entire organization. You have a general for the prisons, you have a general for the streets, and then you have a general that's -- it's basically like internal affairs. He handles investigations, things like that. When you're in the SHU, you might be in charge of, like, 200 guys. You're not really There's guys out there on the mainline, regimental commanders out But on the streets, if you're a regimental it might be 20 or 30 guys. I was a regimental commander Different parts. Each time, there was probably that were under me at that time. A day for me, well, it you're running H-Unit in I would have to sit there and So you're getting daily from all these different blocks. All day long, I would just be San Quentin is the worst place to be as far as being a leader. The main rivals for the they're following the Surenos, and then you have the Aryan Brotherhood, and they're following the whites. But on the mainline, it's mixed. Everybody's mixed out there. The Nortenos, the Surenos, If you're talking about in an a SHU program, everybody's I spent all the '90s in the SHU program. When you see us out there burpees and we're doing we're not out there doing to get karate bodies and just We're training for a They're getting ready to They're going to be engaged in a conflict. So, the SHU program is like They put you in a cell, and you stay in the cell You'll come out of the cell for a half hour to take a shower, and then you might come out for yard, and you come out to a yard that's, you got four concrete walls and a camera. That's all that's out there. If you see a bird fly over, you're like, &quot;Damn, I seen a bird today, man.&quot; You go back in there and In the SHU program, they got Everything is electric They sit up there and You know, you got one cop up there that's in charge of six different pods. So he might forget or he might forget that a door is open and he'll press another button and somebody else will come out. You could be in there watching and you'll be out on the tier in a fight for your life the next minute. It'll happen just that fast. So, us as Nortenos, you know, all day our and we'd be sitting by the door. I mean, I get up and I work out, I watch my TV, but for the most part, whenever there was movement I would be posted up on my door, ready, just in case my door would open. Because a lot of times the COs but it wasn't a mistake. You know, they pop certain doors I used to see them. I used There's a lot of different places out there on the yards to bury weapons. Inside the buildings, up on the, like, in the little rafters. We obviously know where they're at. Under sinks or in the walls, buried. They keister it. You know, to move a weapon they'll put it in their anal cavity, is how it's moved around. I don't know how you want So, I went through Corcoran SHU We were going at it with the Mexican Mafia and the Aryan Brotherhood. You know, they knew we that we would kill each but they would put us out on the yard. And they knew. The You'd have to have your light on, and that meant that you Guys used to turn their lights off because they didn't want no part of it. But those of us that remained active, we'd turn our lights on and we'd go out. It's like a little enclosure and the yard's like a little, it's kind of shaped like a piece of pie. When you get in that little enclosure, you can see through the yard door who you're going to go out So we'd go out, we'd fight. Always try to get yourself situated so that they have their back to the gunner so that you can see Because we were the ones It was the Northeners and the Blacks that were getting shot There's no warning shots, per se, but what they have is they have, like, a -- it's called a bertha or a knee-knocker. It's, like, a gas gun that Sometimes they'll fire once, twice, and then they'll grab the real gun. But yeah, they don't give warning shots. Now, the other thing though, too, is the COs are making bets. They would be like, &quot;Hey, we You guys better go out there You know, sometimes they from one building and they from another building When I first came in I used to mean-mug them. I used to have a bad taste And I didn't even know why I hated them. It was because I was supposed to. That's the mindset that But being around them, a lot They were solid dudes. If there's a Sureno and or I got a book and he we'll pass literature back We can play chess on the tier. It doesn't do us any good any more stressful than what it is. Now, like I said, if the gate's open, we were directed to basically torpedo out and engage with whoever was on the tier. If we were going to take our politics might get set to where, yeah, we might come together to go against administration. You might see something within an ad-seg unit or something where we're not getting fed right, they're tearing up our cells and disrespecting personal possessions like pictures and things like &quot;You know what? We had enough. Blocking your window so that which basically forces them and cell-extract you. It's something that I was in Susanville. You know, when we were going people might debate this, but as far as who they favored in that war. Even some of the female officers. It's just, you could tell that they were either or they were sympathizing for the south. A lot of it is just geography. Where that prison's at, that might be hooked Corruption, it's rampant I mean, you see a lot of female officers are getting The next thing you know, They're not getting that kind of stuff in through the visiting room. They're getting it through corrupt COs. In prison, one of the things are the cellphones that are coming in. But it's a huge business for COs. They can make anywhere bringing in a phone, a cellphone. Having the phones is, it's a when I was in the SHU when we'd be back there there was a lot of lag Either it had to go out through a phone call, or a visit, maybe a week or two for somebody to drive 300, 400 miles to come But now you put these cellphones in the hands of these leaders, if somebody's got a green light on them, they'll make a phone call. You'll get a leader that on the streets, and it &quot;Hey, this dude's got a green It might happen that same night. Let's say somebody came on the tier, I was on the tier in and he was, like, six cells down. I'd make verbal contact with him. I'd yell down there, &quot;Hey, Heyo, once you get situated, go ahead and make a line Making a line is where you take or from the strands from your sheet. You'll make a line, and so that you can put a and then you'll throw it down the tier. It's just a way to get back So he'll tie the kite on and I'll read it, and and he'll pull it back. Ingenuity. There's a lot of different ways to do things like that. there's a language that we use It's an Aztec language, and but we use it so that if we're on a tier and we need to communicate and we can talk on the tier in front of them and they're not going to know what we say. There's very few people that They'll just know certain CO, hit, green light, things like that. Nortenos, our color is red. Surenos, they wear blue. So, the NF insignia, the sombrero, obviously it signifies You got the dagger that signifies that this is a violent organization. And then each drop of blood characterizes its own individual meaning. So one drop of blood is for blood in, guys that have spilled blood Blood out, meaning anybody from the organization, it's And then the third drop that have honorably spilled blood, that have died in the I had &quot;Nuestra Familia&quot; and I got that covered up. I had a star on my hairline, when I had hair, that signified the NR. I had &quot;Familiano&quot; over my left eyebrow, being a family member in Spanish. And then I had a tattoo I had a &quot;NF&quot; back there. The whole purpose of generating money is supposed to be for the that are doing life in prison that don't have a means to That's what it's supposed to be. It's a smoke screen, though. There's a trickle-up effect. The money that comes in, the select few at the and they're the ones that use that money for their own expenses. Some of it's used to invest in drugs and to invest in new you know, breaking NF ground If I got a visitor that's off the top, my gang is 25% of it, 50% of it, or I might even have to and they'll give me back what they feel that they want to give me. You know, you're part of that gang, you're going to take care of that gang or that criminal organization. The biggest thing in prison, the currency in there is soups. Everybody loves soups, Top Ramens. That's like prison or But, you know, obviously then the hardcore drugs White lightning, a cup of But you're talking that's like vodka. I learned early on from that the more violent I was, out there on the streets, The fastest way to elevate is by hurting people. So, out on the streets, the structure, you have your regimental your squad leaders, I would have a second in command, and he would be my buffer. He would collect the money. He would make sure that issuing out the drugs, the guns that were coming That was to kind of keep me insulated. In the '90s, when it was a lot different, the regiments were called Everything was compartmentalized. You had a robbery crew, another You had a wrecking crew. I think the influence has waned In the '80s and the '90s, you couldn't testify against the NF and live in the same county. You wouldn't even want The threat was, it was very But once the three-strike we kind of stepped away and started doing almost The influence is there. People know that they're out there, they're in the cuts, they're functioning. It's just not as -- it's not like it was. I want to say since, like, '68 is when the NF first came into inception. From that time on, that's the Mexican Mafia in This is basically when decided that they weren't going to be abused by the Mexican Mafia anymore. And from that point on, So for almost the next five decades, that war was in effect. The truce actually started at Pelican Bay, the end of Again, the whole purpose of it that had been in the SHU program for, some of them three decades, it was to get back out to the mainlines and to basically show CDC that they could live on the same yard So I thought it was a temporary thing. They were going to get out there, somebody was going to and it was going to kick off, and then it was just going But it's lasted. I mean, honestly, I never that I would ever see the would be out there on the with each other, walking But at the same time, there Guys that had issues, their respective gang, Whether it was over misconduct, something came up in their there was a lot of housecleaning. And then there was a lot of guys that didn't agree with the peace treaty. They felt like, &quot;You know what? I didn't sign up for this, man. What are we doing? What that have spilled blood in the past?&quot; I think the violence is worse. When they let these guys all these leaders, guys from the '80s, when I came to prison, they're starting to bring where they're not just poking people and slicing people up no more. You see all the murders that The Mexican Mafia, the They would rather eat their own right now, stab some of their own The politics that are going on right now, everything's going backwards. In 2004, I was arrested in where I was the leader of a street crew, an NF regiment. So I was the main target On the first day, on June 11th, 2004, they raided around eight houses that were all in relation On the first wave, they hit my house where I had all my guns. They hit another house By 2005, that case continued to snowball. They put me in a observation I had too much influence So they wanted to keep me isolated. And during that time, my girl, she had lupus. I was trying to do everything I could to make it easy on her. I knew I was in trouble, but I didn't want to tell and for somebody like that, during the first couple weeks talking to her, my mom on the phone, I had some difficult You know, &quot;What are you going to do? Are you going to sacrifice yourself? Think about your family for once.&quot; My mom kept pushing me to cooperate. She kept pushing me to cooperate. &quot;You need to cooperate. Do what you do. Your wife's out here dying. And I basically started pacifying her, telling her whatever I needed to tell her. &quot;Let the case play out. I haven't even been to court yet.&quot; So, what they do is, and understandably, they release my phone calls of how I've been talking to my girl, and all my codefendants hear these conversations about cooperating. Trying to explain that to the NF, it was going to fall on deaf I was a leader. I get held because I know better, and I got no business talking like that. This is five years later now. People are still speculating Come on, man. It's five years, and there's no police So, somebody that had an agenda pushed the issue with They put a green light It was literally - the dude, tried to push a phone over I still held my mud. I still wanted to be a 17 months later, they put I functioned for another two years. Put another green light on me, and the second time, it was Somebody wanted to act like they were trying to spear The spear was, like, 2 feet too short. Didn't have a tip on it. You know, my wife, she My mom ended up dying. She passed away. So they did this at a in a dark place, you know what I mean? I'm looking at life. I was getting ready to plead So I was like, &quot;You know The district attorney wants to wash me up. I'm in bad standings now Law enforcement again &quot;You know what? Loyalty only I agreed that I was done and that I would talk to them. So that's what I did from that point on. I denounced my membership, and I agreed to cooperate. However, the cooperation I didn't go in as a percipient witness. Everybody that I got So I went in there basically talking about what I'm talking about The judge struck two of my strike priors, which took me out of the three strikes and gave me 16 years, eight months. I've been in the county None of that had to happen. If the NF would've let me fight my case, I would've been a big dummy with a life sentence. Yeah, I But, you know, by them I felt betrayed. For somebody that just the organization no more, to just ride off into the sunset and go on about their it's still not considered honorable, but it's something that people will say, &quot;You know what? At least he At least he didn't hurt nobody.&quot; But, you know, there's never retirement. You'll never be able to I've had a couple some individuals. When that's when everybody wants to get active. But, you know, when I they're not trying to do all that. And I'm not trying to I'm trying to just live. Live out the rest of my I'm not going to spend the rest of my life looking over my shoulder. I grew up in San Francisco, California. My mom was a young heroin addict. She got involved with At the age of 11, I found my way back to my I found out she was using. And she didn't just give it to me. You know, people are going to be like, &quot;What kind of mother gives I understand that, but I don't blame her. I look at it as, she was at a young age. She got and I kind of manipulated the situation. I told her I knew what she was doing, and if she didn't give it to me, I was going to go get it in the streets. And from that point on, that s--- tore my life from relationships to me becoming involved in From then, I stopped going to school. I started drinking. That's when I started It started with burglarizing cars, ripping out the radios, the speakers, selling them for drugs. Robberies, home invasions. And then we started using weapons, and it just continued to escalate. From that time, it didn't take me long before I got caught up in I caught four robberies, and two out of San Mateo. I took seven years, ran consecutive, and they sent me to prison. My book is -- through talking to at-risk youth, I've talked to kids that Probation officers come up &quot;These youngsters, they read your book, and we actually use your book as a workshop type of thing. The name of the book is called &quot;Nuestra Familia: A Broken Paradigm.&quot; And so I started doing a YouTube channel, Paradigm Media News. I got a series on my channel, and the other one's called &quot;War Stories.&quot; It's also therapeutical to talk about it, you know, to try to help that might be headed for I give them the fine print that they don't hear until they make a commitment and they find theirselves I've seen a lot of my homeboys Most of them are gone. There's only three roads in this lifestyle. You're either going to spend the rest of your life in prison, you're going to die trying advancement forward, or you're There's no pot of gold at