In August 1966, The Beatles unleashed an album that would forever alter the course of pop music: Revolver. Its opening track - Taxman - But there's a highly debated sequence, and as a fair warning: once First off - there's actually a double mystery here: if you've listened closely to the song before, you probably have heard two different count-ins; the first is very clear: one two three four, one two There's also a second one following closely behind, partially buried in the background of the mix: There's a long and contentious debate among fans about who is actually doing each counting. But before we explore the mystery we'll first review the song's interesting recording history. Then we'll attempt to unveil the mystery Beatle - or Beatles - behind the count-ins. On April 20th, 1966 The Beatles entered EMI Studios to begin work on a couple of songs that would eventually end up on their new LP, Revolver. The second song of that day's session was called Taxman, written by George Harrison about his newfound frustration with the heavy taxation on income in Great Britain at the time. The band ran through a few takes of the rhythm track, but none of them were particularly to their liking. They returned to the studio the next day and after 11 new takes they perfected the song's backing track, with George on rhythm guitar Ringo on drums and Paul contributing a fantastic bass line inspired by legendary Motown session bassist James Jameson. With the rhythm George recorded a double-tracked lead Paul and John contributed various Among these was a clever snippet in the latter verses that ultimately didn't The last task for the day was to record versions but he couldn't seem to get the right formula. Instead, Paul stepped in. The switch paid off, resulting in the There's another little curious anomaly in the guitar solo, but I'll get to that a little bit later. After a few more small additions, such as a tambourine part, the day's session was complete. They returned the next day, April 22nd, and added a few more touches including a cowbell and replacing the 'anybody got a bit of money' parts with two new topical lines: With that, the song was mostly complete and would There's an interesting anomaly worth noting here. The ending of the song originally sounded like this: but during the final mixing of the song, the solo section, blending it seamlessly over George's last word and then fading it out. Pretty clever, right? We still haven't covered one key element yet: the count in. At some point during these sessions, the band decided to sequence George's new composition as the new album's opener as a strong vote of confidence in his emerging songwriting prowess. As a special touch, they decided to overdub a new count in, possibly as a throwback to their debut LP, Please Please Me, which kicked off their career with another rousing count-in: 'one two three four!' Of course, being The Beatles this updated version would have to be a bit cheekier, in this case perhaps literally, spoken with a deep drawl: 'one two three four one two'. This new count in would be overdubbed, only partially obscuring an earlier count-in that was caught live during the recording of the rhythm track: Here's where the debate comes in: who is actually doing these two different count-ins. Beatle books, websites, YouTube comments and message boards are all over the place here. Some report that Paul did both. Others believe George did both. Some suggest George on the louder one and Paul in the background one, modern accounts didn't complicate things enough, in the December 1966 issue of The Beatles Monthly magazine, a curious fan - who would probably love this channel - asked this exact question. The response - attributed allegedly to Given John's occasional use of odd it certainly seems plausible. But as I've mentioned in other videos, even first-hand accounts are not necessarily definitive, as memories tend to be faulty. It's also not clear which count-in this response is even referring to, since we know there are two. Let's listen a little more closely to both count-ins. The original live count-in - captured by one of the instrument microphones during the recording of the rhythm track - definitely sounds one two three'. To my ears, it sounds a little more like George. Alternatively it could be Paul since the song technically But who do you think is doing this original count-in? Let me know in the comments. As for the overdubbed, more prominent countdown: I used to assume this was George putting on a goofy voice for his own song: 'one have pointed to excerpts of Paul using For example, during a section of the quirky B-side: You Know My Name (Look Up The Number). It turns up again on a 1969 outtake of You Never Give Me Your Money, released as a part of the Abbey Road Deluxe Edition in 2019. Or is it really George? Some of you might also be wondering: if one Beatle is doing the count-in, then who's coughing? As with all of these debates, the real answer - or lack thereof - isn't particularly important. What's notable is how these organic little anomalies reflect the richness of the analog era, especially at a time when many bands were beginning to experiment with studio techniques and push the limits of what was expected and possible. As for special: it's the first and only time that a And it's just one of George's three total that point in their career, and a sign of George's Thematically, Taxman was a significant that point in time which almost exclusively Suddenly there's a relatable, and for As a song, there are so many fun clever little the doubled syllables during the verses and Paul's groovy bassline. Taxman also has on Revolver, Tomorrow Never Knows, another song breaking just about every convention. listen When reversed, it sounds strikingly This resemblance has led some fans to believe Taxman session and reversed. And it bookends the together seamlessly, from early Psychedelic It's a remarkable achievement for a two and was to come. I wasn't around when the Revolver and everything that followed for the next half-hour Revolver for the very first time. It signaled corner, unleashing new musical ideas that would And as George foreshadowed in that Indeed. What do you think of Taxman know in the comments, and as always,