Let's play a game. Imagine that you are in Las Vegas, in a casino, and you decide to play a game just like you might play The computer can make moves This is a coin game. It starts with a coin showing heads, and the computer will play first. It can choose to flip the coin or not, but you don't get to see the outcome. Next, it's your turn. You can also choose and your move will not be revealed Finally, the computer plays again, and after these three rounds, the coin is revealed, and if it is heads, the computer wins, if it's tails, you win. So it's a pretty simple game, and if everybody plays honestly, then you have a 50 percent chance And to confirm that, I asked my students to play and after many, many tries, their winning rate ended up as expected. Sounds like a boring game, right? But what if you could play this game Now, Las Vegas casinos as far as I know, but IBM has built Here it is. But what is a quantum computer? Well, quantum physics describes the behavior of atoms like electrons and photons. So a quantum computer operates by controlling the behavior but in a way that is completely different So a quantum computer of our current computers, just like a light bulb You cannot build a light bulb A light bulb is a different technology, based on deeper scientific understanding. Similarly, a quantum computer based on the science of quantum physics, and just like a light bulb quantum computers so many aspects of our lives, including our security needs, So companies all around the world and to see what let's play our game on a quantum computer. So I can log into IBM's which means I can play the game remotely, and so can you. To make this happen, you may remember asking you whether you would choose if you played the game. Well, actually, we asked you to choose You didn't know it, but your choice and your choice of square We received 372 responses. Thank you. That means we can play 372 games using your choices. And it's a pretty fast game to play, so I can show you the results right here. Unfortunately, you didn't do very well. (Laughter) The quantum computer won It lost a few only because (Laughter) So how did it achieve It seems like magic or cheating, but actually, it's just Here's how it works. A regular computer simulates a zero or a one, or a current flipping on and off A quantum computer A quantum bit has a more fluid, It can exist in a superposition, with some probability of being zero In other words, For example, it could have and a 30 percent chance of being one or 80-20 or 60-40. The possibilities are endless. The key idea here is that we have to give up and allow for some uncertainty. So during the game, the quantum computer creates zero and one, so that no matter what the player does, flip or no flip, the superposition remains intact. It's kind of like stirring Whether or not you stir, but in its final move, the quantum computer perfectly recovering heads (Laughter) If you think this is all a bit weird, Regular coins do not exist We do not experience in our everyday lives. So if you are confused by quantum, don't worry, you're getting it. (Laughter) But even though we don't experience we can see its very real You've seen the data for yourself. The quantum computer won because it harnessed and these quantum properties are powerful, not just to win coin games, but also to build So let me give you three examples that could change our lives. First of all, quantum uncertainty for encrypting messages so that hackers could not because of quantum uncertainty. They would have to break to hack the key. So this kind of unbreakable encryption and other institutions worldwide. Today, we use more than 17 billion Just imagine the impact quantum encryption Secondly, quantum technologies could also For example, the design and analysis is a challenging problem today, and that's because all of the quantum properties is a computationally difficult task, But a quantum computer could do better, because it operates using as the molecule it's trying to simulate. So future large-scale quantum could perhaps lead to treatments which affects thousands of lives. And thirdly, my favorite is teleportation of information without physically transmitting Sounds like sci-fi, but it is possible, because these fluid identities can get entangled across space and time in such a way that when you change it can impact the other, and that creates It's already been demonstrated and could be part We don't have such a network as yet, but my team is working by simulating a quantum network So we have designed and implemented such as teleportation and efficient data transmission and even secure voting. So it's a lot of fun for me, I highly recommend it. (Laughter) We get to be explorers Who knows what applications We must tread carefully and responsibly as we build our quantum future. And for me, personally, I don't see quantum physics as a tool I see quantum computers as a way and reveal more about this hidden world How amazing that we humans, with our relatively limited can still see far beyond our horizons just using our imagination And the universe rewards us by showing us how incredibly The future is fundamentally uncertain, and to me, that is certainly exciting. Thank you. (Applause)