Translator: Elena Alcalde (Piano music) (Applause) Thank you. (Spanish) Hello. I don't speak Spanish. (English) Typical English guy, I'm sorry. We musicians, we always get asked to play. They say, &quot;Will you come and do a talk?&quot;. And they say, &quot;Of course we'll bring I often think, well, what if Gordon Ramsay was coming here to talk about something? They wouldn't bring an oven onstage &quot;Cook us a fucking cake or something&quot;, (Laughter) But that's fine, I love playing. It's sad, but it's true but this thing... is kind of my best friend. A lot of you will know that piece, I imagine, that I just played. And some of you might know and maybe a few of you will know that it's his first prelude for piano in C major. But I'm going to say something now that I think most of you won't know. And this whole conference And I'm the anti-trust guy. I don't trust a fucking thing. I don't trust anyone, But I do trust music and I want you to trust me There is not a single person in this room today or watching this online who would not be able within a few weeks. Even if you've never touched so long as you've got you would be able to play that piece in five or six weeks. I've just written a book It shows you how to read music, You don't even need a proper piano, you can get a cheap electric keyboard I just realised it's been 3 minutes and I've already plugged the book. I'm really sorry. But the point is that music that piece is, what - 90 seconds long? 2 minutes? 32 bars. It was written 300 years ago. And yet, within it, it contains the entire universe. It's magical thing. I can't think of anything else in the world in which we live that it is as universal as music. Possibly football? (Laughter) Not English football because we're shit. Spanish football definitely. But music is extraordinary, Ian foster said, &quot;Classical music and it goes deep beneath the arts.&quot; And it's one of those things that we don't know It's amazing and so learning an instrument even listening to music is something that I think we need more of in the world in which we live today. Because that world in which we live today, it seems to worship extroverts and we see introverts I think it should be the other Everything we do today that looking outside of ourselves You know we post selfies on Instagram, we are funny or argumentative on Twitter, we poke people on Facebook, we buy shit we don't need from Amazon, we eat junk food, we do so many things looking outside to try and make what's happening inside feel just a little bit better. And weirdly, Two weeks ago I was in Madrid and I was doing a concert here and in the concert I was playing In the morning of the concert Oh my God what a place! And I went to see the Goya paintings. He did a series of paintings called And I did that because Goya and Beethoven I guess most importantly they went deaf They were depressed. Goya was homeless, he spent time living under a bridge Beethoven was arrested once because the police thought he was a tramp, that he was homeless. But the real reason they looked inside of themselves to express what was going on Goya painted the ugly truth Beethoven ripped up the rule book that really for the first time was about feelings, It wan't about the glory of God, making the people paying him happy it was about feelings. And the truth is, all of us today, myself included we have forgotten how to shut the fuck up. (Laughter) And just sit and be still and just be. Things are so fast how to really listen and hear. If I say to my girlfriend, &quot;Darling, what's wrong?&quot; and she looks at me and she says, &quot;Nothing, I'm absolutely fine.&quot; It's not just me, right? (Laughter) I know then, whatever I say, There's nothing I can say to that. If I say to her, And she looks at me and she says, &quot;You know, this morning when you Suddenly everything is different. And we have somewhere to go, we have communication, And I often wonder what would happen about what was going on in the inside. It's an extraordinary thing to be able Would the world be a better place? I don't know. Would it be a more trustworthy place? Absolutely. There's no doubt in my mind. Like I said, Some of you here know I had a quite challenging Lots of us have, of course. We all go through trauma And I actually wrote a book about it, that some of you and some of you have even read it and that book is - It's really a love letter to music it's basically a book about So it's a comedy. My publishers were so happy, &quot;Yes this will be in supermarkets everyone wants to know about that stuff.&quot; But the truth is, it's a love letter to music because music is the one thing that when bad things were happening it literally saved my life. Even today when shit is going wrong I listen to music and everything changes. You know they say that the soul between our inner and our outer worlds. That small space between And my happiest moments are when I get back to that place even if it's only for a short time that's where Bach and Beethoven - that's the space they inhabited And I want to mention a word, the M word: Mindfulness. Mindfulness. I'm sorry, you know, you kind of hire a fleet and you climb up a mountain and you &quot;om&quot; for three weeks, Bach invented mindfulness. Playing the piano, listening to music is mindfulness. It's where the magic happens. I'm not a religious man at all. But I've got a lot of faith I've got a lot of faith but no religion. But there is no greater proof for the existence of God than Bach, Beethoven, Prokofiev, Chopin, Liszt, Brahms, Rachmaninoff, Shostakovich, Stravinsky, Schubert, Schumann, Ravel, Debussy, Scriabin, Bartok, Hummel, Haydn, Mozart - Mozart, fucking hell! Him on his own! (Laughter) And that is a much, much, to help us connect Trimipramine, Fluoxetine, Citalopram, Olanzapine, Lithium, any one of the dozens that I've taken over the years. And of course medication is important it kept me alive for a bit. But music is where the real magic happens. Much more than drugs, much more than self-help books, I fucking hate self-help books! They're awful things! These books you buy... and the premise behind everyone of them is that you have all You've done everything wrong for decades, you're a complete failure But if you read this book, I'll convince you that will say the same thing. And... (Laughter) We don't need it because the truth is, the absolute fundamental truth, is that every single one of you is a fucking miracle. You're perfect just the way you are. And the way to get in touch is to listen and to connect And music, the saddest thing we all know the impact it has. And yet progressive governments all around the world have absolutely massacred music education. It's not just in England, I was in the House of Lords speaking to a big group of people And I'll tell you something, non of them have a fucking clue They just haven't got a clue, they don't listen, they can't listen And the truth is your kids aren't going to learn music. They aren't going to know who Bach is, they're not going to know that piece. And so it falls on us and who love music, and who were lucky enough to share that message. I think it's so important. One of the things I really want to do is to form, to build, to develope an app - because we need more apps, there are not enough of them. And this app will celebrate interiority and what it will do with a piece of classical music. I hate the phrase 'classical music', I'm sorry I keep mentioning it The problem is classical musicians they are such assholes. They keep classical music up here in a little box just for them and just for a certain kind of audience who are well-dressed and educated and it's such bullshit. If anyone can suggest a better phrase for classical music please let me know. I did that on Twitter mind music or old music or shit music. (Laughter) But I like inner music. But everyday what will happen is that you'll will find this app, it will send you a piece of music, it will go hopefully into classrooms in front of children and you will send to people you love, you'll send them a little piece of music, and you will listen to it yourself you will switch off and reconnect and see what the impact is. So I'd like to do a little experiment now, to kind of end. I'd like imagine that I've given you all a free iPhone 7. I've given you all this app and you pull out your smartphones and now I want us to go really quiet. It doesn't matter you can't see me now, I want us to learn how to listen again, I'm going to play you a piece of music It's really a love song. And when I'm playing it what's going to happen to you. Trust, listen to your heart beating feel what a miracle you are trust this music will tunnel into you and take you to a place that is safe And I hope that everyday, you will find 5 minutes just to connect with something, And if it's not learning an instrument it can be painting, or drawing, or writing, or photography, or any one of a thousand creative things that are a vital antidote to the the fucked up, And to me that kind of inner beauty, it sounds a lot like this. (Piano music) (Music ends) (Applause)