In 1974, a French train smashes through a But this train is unlike any other before It doesn't have wheels. It hovers on a cushion of air, and because high speeds. Maybe, you've never heard of hovertains, considered as the solution to slow, antiquated which, in many countries were in decline. In the 1960's, railways were in trouble. In developed countries, ridership was plummeting In Britain, some routes were still served And the public was beginning to view rail Trains now had to compete with newly built And even Japan's newly introduced Bullet only running at speeds of up to 130 miles Part of the problem was most rail lines in earlier, with their sharp twists and curves, But the trains also had a problem. And it had to do with the shape of their wheels. Train wheels are not perfectly cylindrical, And this is what keeps them on their track, While the wheels also have flanges, these that conical shape are exceed. The conical shape of train wheels is a brilliant But there's a problem, and it's called Hunting At higher speeds, the cone-like shape causes The flanges start hitting the track, which inefficient and causing wear and damage. Given enough speed, Hunting Oscillation can perfectly straight track. This meant that trains essentially had a speed So in the 1960's, the thinking was that The French have already built the Aerotrain. Designed to reduce the running friction problems of wheeled trains by doing away with the wheels. It's called a hovertrain. By feeding high pressure air through lifting air much like a hovercraft. The track would act merely as a guideway. Without the rolling resistance of wheels, higher speeds. And leading the way for this promising technology By 1973, Bertin and his team had built a hovertrain French officials and the media marveled at Bertin called his designs Aerotrains. Over the years, he had worked tirelessly to of the concept. With each success, he secured a healthy dose The most advanced Aerotrain was powered by pretty much straight off an airliner. It produced over twelve thousand pounds of At the front, a 400 horse power gas-turbine tonne loaded train a quarter of an inch off And the guideway, was essentially poured concrete. An Aerotrain could easily hover over imperfections. That meant that hovertrain lines were potentially cheaper to maintain. On March 5, 1974, an Aerotrain proved it could per hour. And it might have gone even faster, had its The success of Bertin's prototypes led to And just a couple months after the record to begin construction of the very first line. Outside of France, the world was also taking The British, who had invented the hovercraft, technology. They constructed their own hovertrain test And in some ways, Britain's research into Their prototype, the RTV-31 Tracked Hovercraft The Linear Induction Motor. Although Bertin also experimented with Linear fan or jet propelled. But a Linear Induction Motor is more efficient. Instead of the rotary movement of a conventional movement. Without any of the noise or pollution of a The British were aiming to build a transportation fifty miles per hour. The Americans, not ones to be outdone were In 1965, the High Speed Ground Transportation It was an effort to introduce faster rail Funding was put towards developing new technologies Various hovertrain prototypes were developed, by Jets. But the most developed prototype was the Urban With its sleek windowless cockpit and Blade It was designed to operate in heavily travelled miles per hour. The Tracked Air Cushion Vehicle was a fully testing on its track in Pueblo, Colorado. At the start of the 1970's, hovertrains But just a few years later, not a single country Ambitious plans for Aerotrain links throughout All that's left today are the abandoned A global recession in the 1970's pressured projects. And some critical technical challenges were At high speeds, hovertrains could travel more low speeds, they wouldn't stand a chance. But that's not really why they failed. In the 1970's, the first maglev train were They would use electromagnets to levitate pressure air. And so Maglevs promised even greater efficiency But Maglev's also failed to revolutionize After nearly four decades, there's only High speed rail today is still based largely It turns out that the problems of railways forward, but by incremental improvements. Existing rail networks were modernized with speeds. New signaling technologies were developed Precision machined wheels and yaw dampers And that reduced the hunting oscillation problem. Instead of Aerotrains, the French invested today routinely travels at 200 miles per hour. The British came up with unique solutions and take sharp curves more quickly. The Americans, at least for the time being, Hovertrains or Maglevs or any other radical a million miles of rail line already in existence. With stations and infrastructure built-out Turns out, it's easier to adapt new ideas adapt to radical new ideas. Which is why incremental improvements often Although, there's a new solution in the A train runs in a new kind of track. It's actually a reduced pressure-tube, so Driven by linear induction motors and air It promises to travel at over 700 miles per It's tube-like tracks could suspended or underground [voice fades out]. I used some conceptual terms in this video, These are foundational concepts, the kind work, whether it's a hovertrain, or supersonic But it's one thing to be made to memorize actually develop an intuitive understanding, real world. And that's why I love Brilliant.org . It's and science, but also a lot of fun. Brilliant gets you engaged by letting you of just listening to a lecture and jotting They strengthen your reasoning, creativity to everyday life. A great place to start acquiring the critical is 'Physics of the Everyday'. Go to Brilliant.org/mustard and sign up to And also, the first 200 will get 20% off the engaging experience.