Transcriber: Natalie A A few years ago, I was having lunch and I mentioned the research I said, "It all seems to come down One of the therapists said, "You're a Nuff? I didn't know That inspired this cute little character (Laughter) I keep on my desk, a reminder that we are all a Nuff. (Laughter) I'm enough. You're enough. They're enough. If that is true, I wish I could give you a bullet-point What I can do is walk you that I've discovered in my 40-plus years of being a mother, an educator, In the 1990s, I was a mom and a parent educator in Virginia Beach, Virginia. I was well-equipped I had learned in my early childhood However, behind closed doors, saying things such as: "What's wrong with me?" "Everybody else seems The more parenting books people read, I decided to pursue a Ph.D. in psychology so I could fix this not-enoughness My thesis question was, "What is the lived experience of mothers Attachment theorist Donald Winnicott in 1953 to relinquish mommy guilt. My research revealed (Laughter) "Good enough" just became Not-enoughness can't be calculated, It lives in the shadow of perfectionism or That painful feeling and unworthy of love and belonging. Psychologist Carl Jung defined the shadow because we fear that they are bad. When we don't recognize our shadow, we tend to act in ways What, then, is lurking in this shadow Let's start with two years ago, a time we all remember all too well, So one month after there was an 891% increase in calls The pause on our busy routines No longer any place to run we had to go in, not out. Raven, a 20-year-old college student, contacted me with anxiety and depression, "I'm worried about debt, college success, dad's health, mom's emotions, 52-year-old Ella reached out 17 years after suffering She told me, "It seems as if all my life And the shelf has gotten too heavy, and I can't ignore them anymore." It's as if we've created a culture Media images portray Success is measured by graduating from Children are encouraged to compete, Employers demand perfection Implicit bias dismisses and disregards And even our mental health system but stigma, diagnoses, that often lead to more failure. What the hell has happened to us? Well let's go back, way back, In the first three years of life, your nonverbal feeling right brain develops before your You aren't born asking for a Starbucks. (Laughter) Instead, you cry out for the feeling of being comforted, loved, seen, nurtured. Caregivers who attune to our early needs that support the feelings Misattunements, however, much like trimming branches off a tree, leaving us with a broken compass Now let's go back even further, Swiss psychoanalyst Alice Miller studied She called them "poisonous pedagogies" because they encouraged parents to name-call, ridicule, humiliate, and literally beat the devil out of The ultimate parenting goal before old enough to remember. Now let's pivot into the lens Tests that measure show that prior to age seven, your brain operates in mainly So everything in the first 6 years of life much like a hypnotic trance. So you grow up under a spell of sorts. A shame-inducing spell, perhaps? Physician Gabor Mate defined trauma and interferes with the ability We've all experienced trauma including secondary trauma Regardless of the degree, trauma impairs the brain Seeking emotional safety, children begin to start to develop adaptive responses People-pleasing, rage, avoidance, disordered eating, and even addiction, just to name a few. When we don't look our shame shadow we end up taking ourselves COVID made us look ... (Laughter) The past two years of uncertainty and fear Nervous systems are raw. My clients are saying, "I'm undone," "I'm falling apart." What I say to them is, in order to come together As the poet Rumi says, until it opens." I may have painted a bleak picture here, you can rewire neural connections but you can't do it from the neck up. I started tonight with this slide, not to make fun of the fact rather to give you and myself without analyzing or judging How many of you sighed or exhaled How many of you chuckled or laughed? That one split second may have contributed to positive changes in your brain, So let's move down into your heart. Your heart is a regulatory organ that not your brain. You have 40,000 sensory neurites also known as the heart brain. When trauma stresses the nervous system, That's why you can't find safety Let me repeat that. You can't find safety Experiences that feel good to generate coherent heart rhythms And I'm not talking the Ben &amp; Jerry's, or the booty call. (Laughter) Setting your compass to present moment Worries about the future take you out of present moment Jon Kabat-Zinn, pioneer of relaxation meditation, "Moment-to-moment, The poet Mary Oliver wrote, "If we pause for a moment, even for something as inconsequential we might find unexpected joy." It doesn't help to go back and blame or criticize anyone Instead, acknowledge your ability and make a commitment Remember my client Ella? Let me tell you what was in her boxes. One box held the trauma she had, not being able to communicate Another held her guilt she has because her husband blames her for his Another has her mother-in-law's criticism, and another had her feelings because she couldn't do the things And in another box was Rufus, a children's book she started and never got back to Knowing that creativity I encouraged Ella to start writing. Took her many months, Ella found freedom in emptying her boxes Rufus is helping her and maybe one day her children's book Demystifying chronic not-enoughness requires telling the truth. If you look closely at the word "family" and "liar". Much of what we learn Now let me shamelessly share I was a mistake. I was "Fatty Patti." In sixth grade, I was told to be happy when my father died My HS guidance counselor told me I wasn't smart enough My ex-husband would tell me not to sing to our children because Luckily, gratefully, through the years, many years of brutal inner space work, I've discovered, or I am discovering, the truer things. I am a blessing. I have beautiful curves. (Cheers) (Applause) My gosh. It's essential to wail when losing I got that Ph.D. in psychology. (Cheers) (Applause) And I just sang in my first solo vocal freedom performance (Applause) Demystifying chronic not-enoughness to stay on the ride, even if you don't know where it's going Metaphysician Deepak Chopra think that the shadow and actually, it is the way to love. The average number of uncomfortable Frustrated, mad, and sad. Growing up, we often learn who simultaneously shame us for them. "Don't be angry," "You're okay," "Stop crying before I give you "Get over it," "It's only an ice cream cone." So we begin to believe that our feelings fearing we are bad. So where do you think they go? The shadow. I offer my clients a 50-word feeling list They begin to excavate unloved, betrayed, invisible. These deeper feelings help them identify so they can write a new narrative. For example, if you feel abandoned, ask how you can stick around And finally, a very significant way is by using the magic of imagination. Awe, wonder, and curiosity tame shame. Give yourself permission Sing. Dance. Laugh. Create. Use your senses to identify things like your favorite song, petting your cat, sun shining, Imagine gratitude, even amid devastation. And of course, imagine what it might feel like if you were enough. (Cheers) (Applause)