In the 1953 science fiction film The Beast New York City -- as giant monsters are known While the film's plot isn't particularly about halfway through the film, when a group history of the mysterious creature. Our interest in the theoretical biology of For the past century, stories of cryptids -- have continued to fascinate. And while these creatures likely don't exist, on their biology. Enter Cryptozoologicon, a book that imagines Created by renowned paleontologist Darren Koseman and John Conway -- the volume is "So, where did the idea of writing a book from?" Darren Naish: "The idea did originate with I said, 'well, there's all these creatures real animals, but are essentially exercises The cryptozoological literature has got this if these creatures are real, what are they So, for this entry into the archive, we'll most famous cryptids. You can purchase the book and follow and support below. Now, let's explore the creatures of Cryptozoologicon... We'll start with the celebrities of the known from their alleged footprints. Darren Naish: "Obviously the most familiar Every culture in the world that we know about I think there's a good case to be made that that's already embedded within our cultural Bigfoot and the Yeti may be a socio-cultural species, but if we were to envision their emerges. Just how do these speculative hominids relate The Cryptozoologicon team's solution is herbivorous apes, more closely related to The project imagines the Yeti and Bigfoot different adaptations for their respective In fact, the Cryptozoologicon team created lineages connect not just to each other, but the world. The Orang Pendek, for example, are smaller, which the team pictures as another member tree. But this is just scratching the surface of Another famous yet far more unusual cryptid The Chupacabra is a fabled creature said to What exactly the Chupacabra is supposed to descriptions -- from a dog-like creature, If the Chupacabra were a real animal, the nocturnal predator. Yet unexpectedly, the team pictures the Chupacabra The opossum lineage might not seem like the terror of the night, but in fact the strong would require little evolutionary modification If such a creature did roam the Americas, sun went down... When we think about reptilian beasts lurking the Loch Ness Monster. But off the coast of New Zealand in 1977, something else. The Zuiyo Maru Carcass was a corpse the fishing which many speculated was some kind of sea Thorough analysis of amino acids in the corpse's the carcass of a basking shark, which had But what if that wasn't the case? The Archivist: "So, what was the team's Maru Creature?" Darren Naish: "We are thinking, if we run an actual cryptid and a new kind of animal, And the carcass, of course, is a decomposing strands of decomposing flesh hanging off it. So we thought: wouldn't it be fun if that It's some kind of like -- hideous, zombie, hanging off its body. The sort of thing that we do know of in the You know, deep sea angler fishes and what The team goes on to speculate that perhaps help it mimic the lumpy, muddy terrain of to appear less appetizing to predators. In either case, it's fun to speculate on carcass is less spectacular... According to Aboriginal mythology, the wilderness creature known as the Bunyip. An amorphous water monster, the Bunyip is animal that attacks from the water. While some depictions of the Bunyip are quite the point that some have theorized that the extinct Australian marsupial, of which there Other theories suggest that the Bunyip actually -- which frankly does look quite a bit like But if the Bunyip were an undiscovered animal, semi-aquatic marsupial. The idea of an aquatic marsupial presents birth to under-developed babies that they As a solution, the team proposes that like Bunyip's pouch has a water-tight seal. Such an adaptation could allow the Bunyip that real Australian marsupials have struggled The tale of the Beast of Gevaudan is one of cryptozoological mysteries. Between 1764 and 1767 in south-eastern France, with an enormous, wolf-like beast. The beast quickly became legendary, and multiple the Beast's attacks were slain during that Allegedly, a rogue Hyena was eventually caught As unlikely as that might sound, the animal's years later -- confirming that an escaped In view of all this, it seems the attacks which were inadvertently combined to form But now, let's imagine that the Beast of Taking inspiration from reports that the beast the team interprets the creature not as a Mustelids are a family of carnivorous mammals This version of the Beast of Gevaudan would family, and would make the European countryside Thanks in part to a somewhat notorious faux-documentary the idea that a certain bus-sized prehistoric a popular one. The Archivist: "Given your expertise as that the Megaladon survived into the modern Darren Naish: "There's no chance that It's not really appreciated how poor the Lots of data on the position of megalodon this shark did not survive into the Holocene even survive into the Pleistocene. Most of them have turned out to be older than Way, way, way before the modern era." Yet in a speculative parallel universe where would it look like? In order for a whale-eating shark to remain into a deepwater fish that lurks in undersea The team suggests that this new, abyssal Megalodon species from its Pliocene ancestors. Such terrors of the deep would certainly make On the Indonesian island of Java, a demon wings. Infrequent reports from the 1920s describe wingspan and the face of a primate. While it's unlikely such an organism ever isn't too hard to reimagine as something The team envisions the Ahool as an unknown megabats. A burly predator, the Ahool is able to walk to the forest floor after tackling them in An aggressive carnivore, this creature possesses of a monkey. All in all, it's an astute reimagining of According to folklore, hidden in the misty 'Kelpie' is an old Scottish name for an hoping to drag unsuspecting travelers to a Since horses aren't amphibious, the Kelpie a plausible lifeform. But there are several hoofed mammal species, routinely wallow in rivers and lakes. More surprisingly, there are even some species as 'mouse-deer' -- that are known to So, the team imagines the Kelpie as giant manes and cloven hooves that make them look Reimagining Kelpies as semi-aquatic chevrotains behavior from the legends, as chevrotains The team imagines the Kelpie possess fang-like would, on occasion, includes humans. In the Likouala River region of the Congo on its back supposedly lurks in the swamp. Upon hearing of this creature's description, the Mbielu-Mbielu-Mbielu -- as some kind survived the KT extinction event. While this would be cool, it's... quite reimagining, the team found the stegosaur Darren Naish: "If you're going to take stegosaur is way down the list of things you And so, for Cryptozoologicon we thought, wait large tropical African fish that have some forming, like, a single line along the top So, let's have some fun with this. What about the idea that Mbielu-Mbielu-Mbielu The team imagines that this speculative lifeform other members of its kind, and can clamber It's still a pretty extreme concept for aquatic stegosaurus. Wherever a dark street winds through the countryside on the prowl. As the jokey nature of the name might suggest, seriously, and is just meant to be a fun yet Exactly what the Goatman is and what it looks just meant to be a vaguely-humanoid creature But playing the speculative game once more, human-sized, North American monkey, uniquely They picture these creatures as highly elusive, the confusion over their appearance. It would certainly be a shock to encounter imagines they'd be capable of ferocious In the mountains of New Guinea, a report from age. Stunt pilot and self-described adventurer beast with a long neck and tail emerge from Mesozoic dinosaur. While the concept of dinosaurs surviving in phenomenon at the time, the report wasn't he made the encounter up. If Miller's monster was a real lifeform, Mbielu-Mbielu-Mbielu it wouldn't be a lost of a modern genus. Taking inspiration from the Galapagos tortoise, that evolved into a giraffe-like herbivore While not quite a dinosaur, a giant, super-necked Arguably one of the most fascinating episodes Colombian-Venezuelan border in 1929. Here, Swiss geologist Francois De Loys took was an undiscovered species. The infamous photo was treated with immediate be a white-faced spider monkey, that De Loys actually was. But what if the De Loys Ape had been a real The team envisions a primate that split off becoming large, bipedal ground-dwellers. In our timeline, this lineage includes some so it follows that the larger De Loys Ape using tools and seeming almost human-like One of my absolute favorite aquatic cryptids Atlantic -- the 'long-necked seal.' Most reports come from the 18th century, and elongated necks. The scarce sightings of this creature seem with the appearance of sea lions. The team envisions long-necked seals as a niche. Instead of pursuing fish in the open water, and starfish on the abyssal plain. Their nostrils have evolved into protruding common seals, long necked seals never have Off the coast of Alaska, another aquatic cryptid A sleek aquatic monster, it's possible this seals -- although some legends describe it Faced with such a strange mixture of features, solution. They imagine the Tizheruk to be extraordinarily version of long-necked seals. They envision this creature would eat small swimmer. Instead of horns, this Tizheruk possesses of its head, which they inflate when displaying It's an unusual feature, but when one is seal with horns, one has to get creative... And to conclude our experiment, one of the from the western United States in the form This creature comes from tall tales in the rapidly by grabbing its tail in its mouth Allegedly, Hoop Snakes would race across the As you can imagine, this sort of snake is realistic creature -- but not entirely impossible. Unlikely as it might sound, Golden Wheel Spiders sand dunes to escape predators. They don't form hoops like the eponymous snake for turning yourself into a round thing and So, the team envisions a Hoop Snake that has The imagined creature's musculature is specialized bones are able to endure the bumps of the Furthermore, the interior of its mouth is latch on to its tail, with a thick keratinous The western United States would certainly around at high speeds, but I still find myself But according to Darren Naish himself, just it doesn't mean it can't tell us something Darren Naish: "I think Cryptozoology has we behave. People have these particular kinds of creatures You go to a big, deep, cold lake, you look idea -- even if you see absolutely nothing some giant scary and predatory monster in That's a fixture of culture. Our species as a whole, we often seem to have For me, Cryptozoology is culture -- is firmly exist or not." A tremendous thank you to Darren Naish for Once again, you can purchase Cryptozoologicon and support the creators using the links in And as always, thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, please lend your the notification icon to stay up to date on See you in the next video.