(upbeat music) - Hello friends, and welcome to another video. This week, I'm gonna be Watch out Poke clothes. Digi clothes are coming for your merkin. So a couple of months ago, I was scrolling on my Facebook feed, when I encountered a weird ad. As you guys know, I interact So I do get a fair amount of strange ones. In fact, I am in a category But this one in particular as it was advertising digital fashion. With a picture of a bizarre I wanted this dress. I like phalanges, but it seemed like it was only available in a digital version, whatever that means. So I went to this website, DressX to snoop around a little bit. And it turns out that they sell a huge variety of digital and they will then photoshop onto you. Ranging from like trendy workout gear to tie dyed evening gowns, to completely gravity defying And their reasoning behind selling digital clothing is three fold. One, it reduces clothing waste. So like you can buy a trendy Two, it makes having luxury And three, it's all size inclusive, because they don't have to actually manufacture any specific items, it's just like an editable Photoshop file. And though I'm still trying all of the ins and outs of actually buying and their array of items is pretty enticing. And there have been plenty of articles heralding digital clothing as the next big disruptor So I figured, we better try to see what it's all about. Now DressX has recently launched an app where you can try on, purchase I look like an eyeball. Via augmented reality. All right, next. - [Tyler] Oh - puffy jacket! - X marks the spot. - [Tyler] Your hands are crazy. - Oh. Ooh, this one's cool. Kind of like exclusive Snapchat filters. Excuse me. You caught me unawares. I'm just in my robe. I think this is sort of - [Tyler] Oh! - Ooh, oh. Ah, oh. Ah, oh. - [Tyler] It's very &quot;A Bug's Life&quot; to me. - Edgar Allen Poe-esque. Which right now is mostly focused on buying exclusive digital Ooh. A starry chest. Which DressX's fashion designs could potentially function as, as is, but a lot of people theorize will be interacting with - Well, apparently the are on the way. Basically it will be virtual via augmented reality. Hold up. I just noticed this - [Safiya] But at this point, the app and their AR technology seem to be in the early stages. It's supposed to be kind of like a planetarium outfit, I think. Like celestial, sky vibes. Oh my God. And though it is cool conceptually. Look at the hands, the gloves. The gloves look terrifying. They've got some finessing to do. Oh, look, if I move my leg, - [Tyler] Oh, yeah. - Look at the dress. So we're going to focus on the still photo slash photoshopping because based on the they seem to have that down. Like, some of these look really good. And I feel like to truly we should try multiple with different use cases. And then post them and So for day one, I decided to try and go for but still conceivably a With the idea that maybe to try and test out if you could wear a virtual item and pass it off on social media as if you were actually wearing it. Yes, this is the catfish test. So I picked this dress slash cape look, called the Allover dress coat black, by Andrew Pass for 35 bucks. That has kind of a kaleidoscope-y, light bulb filament-y, And overall, despite my lack this is something I So we went out and took some photos to send to DressX for them to photoshop. Now, one aspect of this process is that you have to take I guess that sounds intuitive, but it is kind of the opposite way that people usually wear clothes, where you can try it on first, get a feel for how it falls and then decide how you Whereas for this, you kind of have to guess how the outfit is gonna look on you later. - [Tyler] I don't think to take a photo, without the outfit you're - And DressX recommends with skin tight clothing on, that also doesn't interfere in an evenly lit area. Which is why I wore this slip And for this one, I didn't really mix up just because I felt like So I should just be like a long column. - [Tyler] I mean, you They look great actually. - Great. All right. Cape dress. It's really hot out here. And out of all of the ones we took, I liked this photo the best. It was playing it a little risky, with like the wind swept hair. DressX does mention that but we decided to see Okay. So this is what DressX whipped up. It seems like they weren't which is good. But weirdly they decided to add these kind of like leggings to the outfit. I'm not exactly sure why, my best guess is that maybe my slip was like for their dress, but it's still a weird choice. But we emailed them back and asked them to remove them for us. And they did, free of charge. So here is our final DressX day one image. I think it looks pretty good. I think the only really that looks super photoshopped Like where the legs meet There's just something jagged But besides that, from far away, it's working for me. So we posted this to Instagram, with kind of like a vague caption to see what people would think. And overall, I would say that people You look fire. Hey queen, are you cosplaying a mountain? I'd wear this TBH. There were a couple of suspicious minds. Some people just thinking I was generally up to no good for a video, which I was. I can smell the video being edited. And a couple of people who did think that the photo looked photoshopped, but weren't exactly It looks photoshopped, like she's just a sticker they or it's the dress, I can't tell. Other than that, people were and being really nice about it. Yes, step on me queen. Which made me feel a little but in the pantheon of catfishes, I think it's pretty harmless. So for day two, I decided to do a where I went for an outfit that I would possibly normally wear, just digital. Except this time, with more of like an And I found this collection on the DressX website by designer 2WB. And of these, I chose this the Nyx dress for $40. I really like the sheer as well as the cutouts, though I was curious to the sheer interplay with my chest as I was not gonna be In fact, that would have because we decided to take - [Tyler] Maybe we can use the art pieces, like a green screen for anything. (Tyler chuckling) - We chose this blue because the dress is kind of blue. Seemed to make sense. And out of all of the ones we took, we chose this one to send off. So I would say the photoshopped is actually pretty good. I think they did quite a kind of layering it over the The only part that is a little sus to me, is once again, like there's just something kind of So my legs and their photoshopping, not a great match, not sure why. Now full disclosure, we did order a second similar and that one did not turn out so well. I think it's mostly like that are kind of weird. Probably because my midriff wasn't exposed. So they had to like invent this skin here. And that looks weird. But the first photo, I like. Me likey. Now as for how we were I didn't want to just post on the Instagram feed every single day. So we actually put this into a series of stories We sandwiched it in to maybe make it a but also to possibly And overall, I would say that people also The top is everything. You look like the fourth Hex girl. Hot, sun emoji. A lot of people actually said it gave them like modern Morticia vibes. Morticia Adams takes a job at the MoMA. Which I consistently strive for. And though there were a few You drew it on or something. Ma'am, is this an edit? There were a lot fewer skeptical Maybe because it was a story, people spent less time It just kind of flowed past. But I think this one was a winner overall. Could have been the blue rhombus. Now for day three, I wanted to start to and into the more bizarre items. There were a few looks that But when I saw this one, Now this bad boy is appropriately named Long long sleeve, by And this really reminds me of some of our ugly clothing like the long sleeve jacket And I figured we could that it was just another crazy and see if I could get away with it, or if it was just too - [Tyler] Once again, Safiya, channel your inner Slender Man. - [Safiya] And for our photo, we wanted to take a picture - [Tyler] It's kinda but just with your arms. - So we could emphasize And after several enthusiastic walks, I think we got something we could use. So this is the photo we got back. And overall, I think they Like the visual impact They definitely got what we were going for with like the swinging arms thing, because the sleeves look magnificent. Very Squidward-esque. There is something about and neckline that's kind of weird. And I'm worried that might that it's definitely fake, but from afar, it looks pretty good. So we're gonna go with it. So this photo went back and I think because it's and the emphasis is so most people accepted it, as a very weird, but real, shirt. The ungodly sequel to the So people either tried to You look like an octopus. Squidward is that you? No this is Patrick. Or tried to support my Why am I kind of obsessed? This is oddly majestic. Some people did have growing suspicions that I was up to something for a video. But I think at this point, they just thought it was I am mildly concerned, but not surprised. And I think most of the actually came from how strange I refuse to believe this garment is real. And not from suspicions of Photoshop and actually quite a few people praised our photography skills, for being able to capture I can only imagine how difficult Perfect shot. Also interestingly, this Instagram got more Which is fine. It's fine. I see how it is. So for day four, I wanted to try out some They actually have quite a wide array of shoes and bags and jewelry, and hats and goggles. - [Tyler] Those looks pretty settling. - [Safiya] And I do think that the digital accessory use case kind of makes sense to me. Sick, man. Like you might want to add Are they earrings? - [Tyler] Oh, oh! - [Safiya] Either to It's like an alien necklace. - [Tyler] Yeah. - [Safiya] Or to trick you have some fancy stuff, you know, like add a Burberry scarf on there. Or a Birkin bag. I don't think that's but I can see it happening. So I decided to wear a and showcase a couple For some exciting shoes, the Quantum Boots by And then I also got this by Sno-Sno for $35. Just as a quick note, these boots are available I look like nautical Hermes. They do look a little silly on there, but I just wanted to show you guys. It is I, Barnacle Boy. Now I will say, I think they botched this one. The hat in particular looks super fake. It looks way too big. Like it's not even fully on my head. Like look how much hat It makes no sense. The shoes are actually okay. The blue barnacles are quite detailed. And even though they don't they at least look like Full disclosure, this was actually our second take on the hat and boots. The first photo we sent them did come back with decent boots also, but the hat is somehow worse. I feel like if this hat looks too big, in this one, the hat is too small. I should've known it was gonna as there were no photos of it on anyone, and also no 3D renderings of it. So learn from my mistakes. So as for how and where we I mean, I knew this one was a stinker, so I kind of wanted to So we decided to put it in an Insta story with a very simple poll, just asking people to pick hat or boots. And as pretty much anyone would expect, the boots won overwhelmingly. I actually didn't ask for any comments. I just asked people to click hat or boots, but some people felt compelled and tell me that they This hat hurts my brain. That hat does not look The hat looks edited on. The shoes don't though. So I think DressX needs to make sure they are photoshopping their otherwise it's just not gonna work out. See? The numbers. Now for day five, I wanted to venture into a And try one of DressX's video looks. Oh. Besides their catalog they do have some looks that Oh it's cute! They have some that change color. This bag beats like a heart. And they have a few that blow in the wind. This to me seems like one of digital clothing. I look like the Ghost - [Tyler] You do. - [Safiya] You know, the of the normal constraints I like this one. - [Tyler] it's like a timer. - Like a kitchen timer. It is. Yeah. So I picked this sort of teal gauzy robe, by Eva Sviridova for $80. This look actually also and some bike shorts, but rather than having to I decided to just wear my own outfit and then ask them to animate - [Tyler] Channel your inner The dress is light as a feather. It's floating. - [Safiya] We took these photos and though it was tough as I was kind of trying to show off the future fluttering tassels I feel kind of like Dan Stevens Emma Watson has to dance with We finally settled on this one. And then this is the photo, or I guess video, they sent back. I think overall, this looks quite good. I actually thought the video look was gonna be more obviously not real, but everything is moving so naturally, especially with the texture of the jacket, that it almost looks like I and the breeze was blowing The only questionable part for me is this frond down here I don't know, there's just But besides that, I'm So obviously in some ways, the jig was gonna be up on Instagram, as this was pretty obviously And people in the comments that not only was it moving, Oh my God, it's moving. How the fuh. This is freaking me out. But also that this was Is this like e-fashion? And for some people, this made all of our previous Oh shoot. The last three Just realized it. And to lead them to the conclusion that we must be doing a So the next video is Though feedback for the jacket It's low key cute. Courage the Cowardly Dog vibes. It's giving me Listerine Cool Mint Strips in the best way possible. 10 out of 10, I would wear. I personally think the effect is cool. And if Instagram is going to emphasize video content more going forward, this could be a good workaround. I don't know. It's really not the worst idea. - [Tyler] Instagram is - [Safiya] So for day six, I continued down the less - [Tyler] It looks like - Yes! There are just a lot of cool avant-garde high fashion looks on DressX. Ooh. I like this one. - [Tyler] Hey, it - [Safiya] And I wanted Oh. Bring it back. - [Tyler] Oh, sorry, sorry, sorry. Back on. - [Safiya] So this is the which I believe stands for - [Tyler] All right Saf imagine - [Safiya] For this photo, I didn't really know how I should pose while wearing a giant bubble, but we did want to make in the frame for the jacket, because it seemed to be quite voluminous. So it did take us some but we finally ended up with this photo. And this is the picture they sent back. Obviously it doesn't look realistic, but overall I think it looks pretty nice. There might be some Photoshop awkwardness around the ponytail, but besides that, I think it looks pretty good. They have the extra like, kind of floating in the air, which I think is better than when they had them and sit on the ground, in their ghost model 3D walk. Ghost 3D model walk. Is that how I say that? I also really liked the texture of it. It's a nice, shiny plastic. I am serving pool floaty realness. This jacket is actually also - [Tyler] Oh! That was sudden. - Did it work? - [Tyler] Kind of. Yeah. - [Safiya] Which could before taking the photo, if - [Tyler] I like how you can just put - Yeah. (Safiya giggling) It's a ghostly puffer jacket. The app version is still pretty glitchy. Oh my god look how much movement the pillows have on their own. - [Tyler] It looks like they're trying to float away from you. - They're desperate to escape. But I just wanted to show So having done most of our we decided to mix up the platforms and post this photo onto We were a little bit more as we don't usually post And I think people were a but a lot of people knew that this was probably and a lot of people also quickly realized that this was edited or digital fashion. I think this looks unreal Why does that look Edit: I've convinced myself But that didn't stop them from thinking it was also a cool jacket. That looks photoshopped in. I love it. 2000s inflatable furniture vibes. You're looking camp right in the eye. There were still a few people who thought this might be a real jacket. I can hear the sound of Where did you get this? I need to know. And someone who was so that they actually admonished us for the potential negative of leaving plastic balloons around. But most people knew it was fake. Now for day seven, I wanted to go for but this time an expensive one. All of our other outfits, we were able to get for but DressX does have this one collection, called Auroboros, which is sort of sci-fi futuristic Avatar-esque clothing, that goes for like a which is confusing, because I kind of thought behind digital clothing was that it is less After a little sleuthing, it seems like Auroboros is actually a somewhat well-known digital designer, but DressX works with a who offer stuff for less. So I'm not sure why this line but I figured we had to try it. - [Tyler] All right, - I hope it doesn't ruin everything. - [Tyler] It might. - I committed, okay. this is only the really expensive one. - [Safiya] Now, as for I decided to go for this Replicant look, because I figured we hadn't this one has pants, and So it's a win-win. We're trying something. We're trying something. - [Tyler] Is that what you're trying? - [Jordan] That's the futuristic look. - [Tyler] Send that to them. - [Safiya] So they sent us this edit back, and I'm pretty happy with it. Obviously we spent a pretty penny for it, so I would hope that it would be good, but I do think it has And I will say for how it's not the most unflattering Or not worn. Worn. So I'm not sure it's but it's definitely one of the better jobs DressX has done for us. Maybe they knew better than to mess around with What do they call me in Like if I'm willing to spend the money, they better not lose me. So for this final post, I decided to return to the Just for the grand finale. And though I had braced myself for this look to be duly roasted, I actually think people can I say the best out of all of them? - [Tyler] I think so. - [Safiya] Partially I think because it was just so out there. Wow, I think this might actually be the weirdest thing you've ever worn. I don't know what this Serving us Golgi body ody ody. And partially because I was just the best. I want to hate this, but I just can't. Some people even thought it looked like a pop You have arrived to &quot;Chromatica.&quot; Obviously a lot of people and also for a video. But overall, I thought it With actually the most comments out of all of our posts from the week. If this is a video, this is So a thousand dollars well-spent? Maybe. Jury's still out on that one. So that was my week To start with the positives, I actually thought that some were really cool. And though I don't think any of them fully fooled the internet into thinking they were a hundred percent real, that didn't stop people I also think that is impressively large and varied. So I think they're doing a good job of sourcing digital clothes that are just straight Now, as for the negatives, I did find it a bit with the intent of adding - [Tyler] You having fun? - I just feel kind of naked. - [Tyler] You are. (Tyler laughing) - [Safiya] And I also think that DressX can sometimes miss with And though they are to the same photo for free, I do think they need to be able to consistently deliver a good product for their value proposition Also, I do think the fact that you have to pay for is a little flawed, like if I wanted to do a of three pictures of I would have to buy that three separate times. I'm not sure what the I guess that's why they're but that needs some finessing as well. - [Tyler] Why does it look like you're wearing a Mountain Dew bottle? - [Safiya] All in all though, I think I am pro digital fashion. I think there are some kinks to work out and I am not really on board with dropping a thousand but I like the idea that virtual fashion can be untethered from reality and can be purely about I don't think it's gonna but overall I am down. Thank you guys so much for watching. If you liked that video, make sure to show shmash that like button, and if you want to see make sure to shmash that subscribe button. Here is my Instagram. Here is Tik Tok, here is my Shorts channel, newly minted YouTube Shorts channel. And here's our live streaming channel, where we live stream every And with that, I will