One of the really incredible things about being Flow is often described as a state of kind propelled through the activity. Everything word &quot;anxiety,&quot; you think, &quot;Oh God, this thing of it.&quot; I wanted to flip the script. Anxiety is use neuroscience and tools from psychology to tell ourselves so many stories about be. Once we realize that everything is always - Hey Big Thinkers. This is the DS-01 Daily company and the sponsor of today's video. The supplement that aims to support better digestion clinically and scientifically studied strains not links to the strains specific studies on their behind their product. Now, I know what you might not all probiotics are the same. One of the that it is undergoing clinical trials. If you're you can find a link to those trials in the this product does not intend to diagnose, treat, in particular are often band-aids. It's lifestyle habits like diet and exercise, as outsized impact on overall health. But or are considering starting one, consider special offer for the Big Think audience. and a free glass travel vial by using the promo My name is Stephen Kotler. I'm my latest book is &quot;The Art Flow is often described as a state of kind of through the activity. Everything else just seems fancy way of saying it's gonna pass strangely five it'll slow down. You get a freeze frame effect. intuition tends to get turned up a lot. seeing the hoop and suddenly it's as big be paralyzed. And what that frowning is, is a this is a constant issue. And by my, where and I'm like, no, no, I'm just thinking, this is the term is coined by Gerta who uses the German actually wrote about flow. William James worked referred to as the godfather of flow psychology. life. And he went around the world, talking to felt their best. And they performed their best I mean this altered state of consciousness where effortlessly, perfectly seamlessly from the last refers to any of those moments of rad attention task at hand. So focused on what you're doing. the things that athletes talk about a lot is what flow, I will get directions right left, do this, what the voice is telling you to do, or you tend called the golden rule to flow. And the idea here the task at hand when the challenge of that task and to get good at it, you have to get good at you want to stretch but not snap. So there are a prepare yourself and prepare the environment toolkit. 22 of them have been discovered. There have identified 22. The most basic of flows, to sort of start your work session. If you can, to wake up at 3 34 o'clock in the morning. That's a night out. My wife doesn't wake up till 5, 6, her brain comes alive. And then you want to try concentration practice, distraction management turn off email, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, et was a study where they found that coders and flow. the door, a text alert or whatever it can take. get back in at all, low only shows up when all one way to kind of explore flow triggers is a triggers. They drive focus. They drive attention And there's a lot of different ways to get the same thing with unpredictability complexity, sky and you see stars everywhere. And you know, sort of perceptual vastness. You've ever done a little rush pleasure you get that's dopamine. And a row. That's because the dopamine that is now in get that same dopamine from risk taking, and this risks, and intellectual risks, possibly spiritual taking the risk, which is what some people, uh, drive motivation. Now there are lots of different standpoint, there are five and they're all a sort of specific order in a specific sequence. of the things we get from curiosity is focus we don't have to struggle. We don't have to burn Curiosity is designed biologically again to be fallen in love how much attention you pay, Hey to stop thinking about them. Can't stop staring for free. Now passion is incredibly useful, but purpose. Everybody wants to talk about, oh, I have it's good for the world. And all those things may it's very, very selfish. Once you have purpose, to pursue my purpose. And once you have that motivators mastery mastery is the skills to pursue things about being human is we're all built for actually universal in most mammals and deaf, version of a flow data, a a team performing at This is called group flow. In fact, studies have these characteristics who score off the charts are the people with the most flow in their lives. that is a commonality across the boards at the performance has taught me. And the way I sort of us into the game. Learning allows us to continue which is optimal. Performance is how we amplify My name is Wendy Suzuki. I'm Dean of the College most recent book is &quot;Good Anxiety: Harnessing - Anxiety is the feeling of fear or worry uncertainty. Brain plasticity is the brain's itself in response to the external environment. brain plasticity to address some very challenging hear the word &quot;anxiety,&quot; you think, &quot;Oh God, this have it. I don't know how to get rid of it.&quot; One the script on our whole mindset around anxiety. okay, so you're never gonna get rid of it. It &quot;Good Anxiety,&quot; is teaching us to look at a brain structure that is automatically activated your anxiety, and the brain area that could help cortex, the area that's involved in executive unfortunately, in situations of high stress, high activated but your prefrontal cortex gets shut One thing that trips essentially all of us up is that we are more prone to see the negative sides if you're tired, if you're stressed, if lots of world in, &quot;Oh my God, this person hates me. I'm the weight that I wanna lose.&quot; All these things along with you. 'Cognitive flexibility' is the situations in lots of different ways. We are knowing it you are approaching the same situation six years old. Cognitive flexibility says that to approach it. You have the ability to do just the different kinds of anxiety, and that's how anxiety. Let me mention my top three: The first if? list.&quot; What if you didn't do that, or what anxiety is focused on things that are important anxiety evolved to have us put an action on it. danger that was causing anxiety or you run away way to transform it is to turn that what if list them, whether it's asking a friend for help, doing them one by one. Superpower number two is the It's those moments that you're doing something still. It's like you're moving in slow motion and out there says that anxiety can eliminate flow. I just say, &quot;Well, sorry, if you have anxiety, no Maybe it's &quot;micro flow.&quot; Your own anxiety can make during the day, even if you don't realize you Think about that anxiety that is most familiar to what it feels like. You know what it looks like. suffering from that same form of anxiety, and give a kind word, a simple helping hand in that can't think of anything that we need more in the 'activist mindset' is one that is flexible, that possibilities, everything from that negativity is gonna teach me something really interesting, cognitive flexibility. You're gonna try something in different ways every single day it can be This is a really important part of my book, and I that really shaped the book, which is a difficult coming out of that with a beautiful example of an loss of a loved one during their lifetime. My and that loss and that sadness was undergirded by mindset. I brought that beautiful, helpful, almost addressing anxiety. What is it about my anxiety or a gift from that as an opportunity to learn, I'm Robert Waldinger. I am a psychiatrist and School. I direct the Harvard Study of Adult - Zen emphasizes community. It's called 'Sangha' that we practice learning about ourselves and each both during meditation sessions and out there in Roshi, a Zen Master. It's a big part of my life, think about my own life, other people's lives, about working with patients. I would rate the greatest hit of Zen Buddhism. Basically, the idea to hold onto in the deepest sense. And that on the it can be an enormous relief because we tell and who we're supposed to be, and how the world is of impermanence, we let a lot of that go. Once it helps us be more compassionate to other people all the complexities of a self and a world that's perhaps the most iconic teachings of the Buddha. often said that, &quot;The Buddha was teaching that anymore.&quot; Zen does not teach that. Rather, what we in life, learn to be with unhappiness, even be a way that doesn't layer on The optional suffering all is, for example, that I have back pain or how of these things are workable. It makes me a little on in me, and that can be hugely helpful. When definition I know of mindfulness is simple: That's the feel of the chair on my back. It's the mindfulness right this moment, by simply paying It might be your heartbeat, it might be your room-anything. And simply letting yourself be open can do that in any moment. Buddhism talks about on tightly to a fixed view of something. Zen in life, and that we do have preferences, to insist less that the world be a certain how much we try to insist that someone else and how much less we suffer if we let that go. And in the world as they are, and we are allowed to relieving suffering is in Zen, the idea of being living with it in a way that hurts less. There's and there are a couple of different ways that it's cultivate. You can do a loving-kindness meditation to yourself, &quot;May you be happy. may you be at and you come to feel differently about the other much, or you're angry at. So there's that way of which is simply by becoming more and more aware of your own difficulties. Because what happens when for example, is that we become much more empathic loving kindness arises, where we see an angry having a terrible day,&quot; rather than immediately different way to cultivate loving-kindness, but And finally, there's a wonderful teaching in let go of all the stories we tell ourselves that helps in relationships because it allows us to so much I don't know about this person, let me before about this person. Let me find new ways kind of freshness and openness to relationships Suzuki was a Zen Master who had a saying that can remain open to many possibilities, rather that we become open to surprise, open to new that make us suffer a great deal less than when and the more people call me an expert,