It's because of your reputation Thank you. But I don't know who the fuck she is. You have your bodyguards, I have mine. I don't trust your bodyguard. Stop. Not until I see what's in the box. No money, no box. Whose fucking rules are you playing by? My fucking rules. Trooper Ready. Ranger Ready. Unicorn Ready. Action. Take the Boss. Go and check that out. Get the guns. Back out. Back out. Officer down. They outgun us. We need backup. Frankie Mr. Fan, please allow Woo Cheol As observers, Does that matter? Tam, keep an eye on them! Yes, Sir! Please stay back. Stop. Go. Four officers down. Get them out. Frankie, cover me. Freeze. The cops are here. Lower your weapon. Withdraw. Hit the ground! 9 o'clock, cover me. Run. Grenade. Fuck you. Freeze. Run. Watch out. Colonel Choi, the weapon was hit. It fell on the ground. Yes, it was hit. Let's do it. Eyes are connected to the NIS office. We can start. November 6, Hong Kong 06:10. Choi Min Ho of NIS to Weapon in question is placed inside a brown leather bag. We must separate the weapon from the bag in order to authenticate the weapon. Before you saw the weapon, you refused to assess its power. If anything goes wrong with the weapon, everything you see now will all disappear. Judging from the appearance, the device is a 90% look-alike It appears the device To play it safe, I suggest we authenticate it online. I agree. Wait. Except for online, there's no other way to authenticate it? Mr. Choi, the notification from NIS never mentioned authentication meant Mr. Lee, if this device is a fake, going online will do no harm. If this is indeed our missing device, I can use the activation procedure to reset it to shutdown mode. It's definitely safer than doing nothing. Mr. Choi, I agree you should proceed The Police escort motorcade once authentication is complete. Confirming mobile device DC8. We begin authentication procedure. The computer confirms this device is the DC8 prototype that was missing Activate selection mode. We have chosen &quot;termination&quot; mode. First online authentication Built in CPU is linked up to tablet PC. Terminate detonation complete. Good work. Didn't expect our countries to team up Indeed. Task force is ready to move the weapon. How did it go, Mr. Choi? We have confirmed this The motorcade is ready. Thank you. Sorry, the weapon stays here. Mr. Song? You're making my life difficult! Really? Definitely. The Koreans authenticated that thing. Why won't you let them take it away? This is not Lost &amp; Found. It's a matter of national security. I need you to work with me. If you keep the weapon in Hong Kong, how can I work with you on that? Mr. Lee, there are certain things, because of your rank, I'm unable to share with you. Why? Like I said, China and the U.S. don't see I'm sure you know that. I believe... the situation will change after this. The Koreans confirmed the weapon and reset it to safety mode, right? Just help me keep an eye on it. I don't want any screw up. This is 300m from the intel center It's the safest place for your weapon. For now, we can only use wireless radio This is outrageous. Why can't we ship the weapon home? We're under house arrest? The Security Bureau has spoken to the Director of NIS earlier. That's bullshit. NIS never agreed to let you detain the weapon. We're going by the law, Mr. Consul. What law is that? The Central People's Government the foreign affairs relating to the HKSAR. Article 13 of the Hong Kong Basic Law. The International Law should be Please calm down, Mr. Consul. We're looking at the big picture. Shipping it out is the right thing to do. But going by the Basic Is that his idea? Pardon me. Can I just say something? Don't forget you're from Hong Kong. As a physics consultant, technically, that the Koreans have Do you know how dangerous that is? We know it's a weapon of mass destruction. Why do you want to keep it? It doesn't make sense. Except for political reasons I see no other reason for it. Will you do something so stupid? This is not the first time I worked but this is the first time I get to see how members of this so-called task force... before and after this gentleman showed up, your attitude did an about-turn. Professor. Hold on. Would you like to hear After the proper diplomatic mediation, the weapon will be escorted out of and our Ministries of Foreign Affairs This is it. Just like that? Whose side are you on? It's not about taking sides. It's always about taking sides. It's whether or not you have a conscience. Don't forget... you're from Hong Kong too. I'm only following my orders. No one has used that tone with you before. Still pissed? No. Mr. Lee told me all members of the task force must stay at the intel center until this whole thing blows over. But he was the first one to leave. And that Professor... You call this a task force? What a joke. Shall we have a little pep talk? Can I help you, sir? Eric Lee to see Martin Koo. What's so urgent? You must have heard about Tsim Sha Tsui last night. How bad was it? We intercepted a weapon It's in a vault. Helios? Tell me all you know. Everybody out. For the past decades, the U.S. any weapon development by other countries, all in the good name of when in fact, it boils down to protecting You won't give it, but people want it. It's all a matter of supply and demand. Spare me the political analysis. Can you make contact? You already have the weapon, why do you need to contact him? The U.K. and the U.S. are but Hong Kong is unusually quiet. No news is good news. There's something wrong You have any idea how many I'll keep my eyes and ears open for you. Take off your shoes. I'm sorry. Forget it. Of course not. We haven't been properly introduced. Song An. Song as in the dynasty, An as in saddle. This is my assistant Yuan Xiaowen. You understand Putonghua? Thank you. Nice tea. It hits the spot. I know you're a busy man, but I didn't know you're that busy. But still, please keep an eye on DC8. Its safety is very crucial to what Eric Lee promised me I could freely come As for how often I check DC8, I don't need you to tell me. Of course. Hong Kong is the intel but it has never been under attack, right? I want to keep it that way. I'm sure you do too. I chose to settle the matter First, I want Korea to review the situation and find out why their security system Second, I want the buyers to realize What do you think? Arms dealing in the black market It hardly qualifies as terrorism. But we must take precautions. If these people choose to do I want to send them a message. Hong Kong, it's part of China. To oppose Hong Kong is to oppose China. Do you understand? When you came in, you must have seen the placards outside. Like I always tell my students, we must defend one core value: to respect people's freedom of speech. Have some tea, Mr. Song. A gentleman can agree to disagree. I don't think your way is the only way to keep Hong Kong safe. You must have your doubts, Professor. Tell me how this sounds to you... The safety of a region in terms of the overall interests of will crash and kill if you fail to manage My job is to ensure the safety of your car as well as the citizens of Hong Kong. How does that sound to you? Mr. Song, I'm afraid your methods are not quite in sync with Really? It appears to me Mr. Lee found the right man. Scholars can be such a pain. Are you sorry for what you've done? I wouldn't have come if I wanted to escape. The deal should have happened already. The weapon is in a very safe place. Yeah, in the hands of the fucking Police. My brother died because of you. Mr. Big, we all know the risk in We stole the device and It's my responsibility to make sure your It hasn't changed. DC8 is the smallest weapon ever built. It's an unprecedented Without proper activation, DC8 is no more valuable than dog shit. Then let's kidnap another fucking scientist, There are only five who have the expertise So it needs to be done delicately. Why the fuck didn't you The less everyone knew the better, which was fine until the bastard Chinese Helios has never been caught before that. I don't want that to change now. We're all working for We help your organization the power to play God. Don't let my brother's death be in vain. How much time do we have? 30 minutes. How many in your party? Sophia. You're so thin. Have you eaten? Of course not. Come. How are you? Good. And you? Here... Of all the godsons, only you would buy me pills for my stomach. Still don't want money for it? I got paid already. Here... What would you like? Pig knuckles. On a hot plate. I've been keeping tabs on you. That's why I tell the boys... Don't go to Hong Kong this week. I quit. You still have my stuff? Shit. You're going to war? Are you guys hungry? I think your companions don't like Not at all. Please don't take any offense. They're both afraid of large crowds. Call it middle-aged shyness if you like. Is the weapon safe? Is it still stable? I heard it had sustained I'm impressed by your intel. Intel is my trade. You know I'm the best. They're paying a lot of money for the cop who killed the brother. If I can get information on who the cop is, can you tell me more about Helios? Allow me and my business to offer you Do not turn Hong Kong into a battlefield. I don't care how you do it. Get this bomb out of my You got it? Please take a look at this. What is it? You wanted me to dig up The Japanese Imperial Household Agency 12 years ago, someone broke into and stole one of the three the jewel Yasakani no Magatama. He became an international arms dealer The U.S. suspects he has, orchestrated at least 3 arms deals in Asia. He managed to get away every time. It's possible Hong Kong With someone good at attack, With someone good at defense, You mean... Tell the weapon experts in Beijing to We have some information They have got some mass destructive weapon This is all the information we received. Excuse me. No problem. Eric, someone is rounding and shipping them to Hong Kong. Something came up at the university. Can I call my secretary Angela? Hurry. Put it through. Mr. Fan, we're underground. Go ahead. Good. We'll start the safety check. Mr. Fan, I have a reading of 1250 mSv. My assistant is down. Call the Fire Department Do you copy? Tracy, call the Fire Department Yes, sir. Have you contacted Colonel Choi? Their phones are off. Control is trying to locate them. Here's a graphite case that can last 3 hours. I have another one. As soon as you find them, ship this thing out right away. It's not going anywhere. This weapon is leaking. Do you care about the lives This is precisely what I'm doing. Have you forgotten what I told you? Mr. Fan, I don't care anymore. There's nothing I can do. The weapon specialists from Beijing If the professor doesn't want to help us, and I mean &quot;if&quot;, give us a bit more time Ridiculous. - Professor. - I know. I can't accept him. I can't work with him. I know. So stubborn! Sorry, we're closed. Come back at 6. Are those the books for the restaurant How long has it been? Almost 20 years. The day you opened this joint, I didn't have time to drop by. You head up a department now? And I thought you had retired. You know I always do the cooking. Let's cut to the chase. How nice of you to drop by. Have you eaten? Let me fix you something. Sit down. Two nights ago, we busted an arms deal. Both parties should be rather antsy by now. My informer tells me the buyer is so pissed he ordered firearms from Macau to go to war with the Hong Kong Police. I can only think of you, who can fill such a huge order in Macau. Where is Helios? Mr. Lee, you lost me. I'll make it simple for you. After I stepped inside this restaurant, nothing in here belongs to you anymore. Including your life. You work hard to give your family the good life, right? If you touch my granddaughter, If you come with me quietly, I guarantee your family will be safe. They're taking Sophia to Hong Kong. Once she gets inside that car, she'll be blamed for any deal She will never tell on us. It's the rule, what we believe is not what other people will believe. When she decided to go with Eric Lee, she was prepared to die. Don't move! Calm down, Mr. Lee. Take her away. Sin Mi Kyung, since we left the temple, you wanted us to keep our phones off and took us around in circles. What's going on? Our DC8 has alerted the UK, US, China and half of Middle East. Because it's detained, at least 3 other parties will launch If we hand over the cop they'll tell us where to find Helios. That's simple enough. Explain to Inspector Fan, and tell him to do the trade. Are you suggesting we betray Use Inspector Fan to exchange Inspector Fan is a cop. He should be prepared If I were in his shoes, I would have done the same at all costs. This is not about trading This is about trustworthiness. What you're doing is Sacrificing one life can save many others. Didn't you say we must get the weapon back? Even by force? I have deployed my men. Why are you so indecisive all of a sudden? I only told you to get ready just in case. Just in case? If the informer is reliable, we missed Helios by a few inches. We would have let the generals down. How can you face them? Hold on. Can I say something? Colonel Choi, your decision is immature. Turn your phones back on. There's something wrong with your weapon. Everyone must report back Chinese weapon experts are coming to Hong Kong, I'm sending you a file. When you see the breaking news, When the Hong Kong Police intercepted DC8, we have examined it carefully. The bullet did not damage the inside. After authentication, It's impossible to have a radiation leak. You're saying... The Professor is helping us. We sent her blood sample to the lab. We'll know in 8 hours if she's the missing flight attendant. Drink some water. How old are you? 24? 26? You should be sensible. You still have a choice. Either, a life sentence, or, help us find your boss. Forget about turning state witness You squeal on him and you walk. I'll send you wherever you want to go. Mr. Lee. Think it over. We're at the race track right now. Allegedly, there was an Over 20 people were injured. The bomb squad has been As you can see, many racing fans... Somewhere on the stand behind me Exploded. This is just the beginning. Hand over the weapon and to Causeway Bay on your own, or else start preparing If you wish, with an invitation from our PLA in the Hong Kong Do you realize you're out of control? Listen... before you have a grasp on what's going on, we have already declared war on Helios. If you compromise, he'll turn Hong Kong into a hub for arms deal. You want that? Hold on a second. According to my informer, he can give me the whereabouts of Helios if we give him the officer who shot the Middle Eastern buyer, who happens to be Inspector Fan. Is your informer clean? He was the one who told us the location of I killed the guy. I don't really mean to hand you over. But if we make contact, maybe we can find Helios. Can you manage? Sure. - Wai Yip. Get 2 teams ready to go Yes, Sir. Professor, Mr. Choi, please double check DC8. Where are we going? We're going to Macau. Thank you, Professor. For what? I come from a family of scientists. I'm willing to swear by my family and my brother's name this is the safest weapon ever built. I already told Eric Lee. I'll leave after debriefing The sooner DC8 leaves, the sooner Hong Kong will be safe. Do what you have to do and you'll be doing us a favor. Even inside the graphite case, absolutely no more collision. Handle it with your utmost care. Lieutenant Park, I have something to do. Yes, Sir. Mr. Choi. Stay calm. Any monkey business from you, and you're the first one I'll shoot. Saad. Saad, I brought them here. Saad. Say it. Change location. Sunshine Plaza on Jaffe Road in Wanchai. Listen up everyone, new location. Sunshine Plaza on Jaffe Road in Wanchai. Go around it. Stay close to her. Lock down the building. The hell with procedure. Yes, Sir! Can you talk? I'm still in Macau. The informer is dead. But don't worry about me. How are things on your end? We have DC8 now. Professor Siu said the Korean consulate was Sending the weapon over He gave us the address of a pier. I'll text you later. Okay. I'll call Consul Kwon for back up, and hurry back to Hong Kong. But I'll be a bit late. One more thing, it's very important. I want you to spread the word. DC8 is back in our hands and we have left. So no one will give Hong Will do. Is this the right way? We're almost there. Something is not right. Is this the right location? Yes, according to the GPS. Dodge. Shit! Who are these guys? Let's split up. No, we stick together. Can you manage? Go. Colonel. Hang in there. Colonel. Colonel. This... ...no hope. Mission... we must complete our mission. Colonel. Hang in there. Hang in there, Colonel. Buck up. Mr. Song, we checked. Xiao Yuan is missing. Wait! Fan, we have a mole. Go check everyone's phone and email records and their whereabouts after we left HQ. Mr. Lee, over these two days, only Professor Siu had Hello, Angela? Do something for me. Ask Mr. Lee about the theses by Year 3 students. Sorry. Also, sort out the papers on my desk. I only want to keep nos. Toss the rest. Ask Mr. Lee about the theses by Year 3 students. Also, sort out the papers on my desk. I only want to keep nos. Toss the rest. Ask Mr. Lee about the theses by Year 3 students. Also, sort out the papers on my desk. I only want to keep nos. Toss the rest. &quot;Where's Mr. Lee now?&quot; Professor, the Police need your help. Everything is confidential. How can I work with you For the sake of the safety DC8 must go. The Koreans confirmed the weapon and reset it to safety mode, right? Just help me keep an eye on it. This is all confidential, Before you have a grasp on what's going on, we have already declared war on Helios. If you compromise, he'll turn Hong Kong into a hub for arms deal. You want that? Professor, Mr. Choi, Do you need help? No. If I'm wrong, you can take the project If I'm right, you can have my office. Mr. Lee, do you need help? Looking for me? 14 years ago when I was transferred to my boss told me on my first case that Police officers were only human and they would make mistakes. He must have thought very highly of you. He wanted you to bust one of But he picked the wrong guy. Why? I have a habit of suspecting everyone. You must be very unpopular. The worst. I cracked the case and busted my boss. Because he tried to make Since I came back from Macau, I've been thinking... why... why is it whatever we do, Helios is always one step ahead of us. Helios? The Americans and Koreans failed to I feel so honored. You knew I was Helios, Song An is still around. No matter how certain I am, I don't want him to crack this case. Your personality is your downfall. You want to be the Commissioner? Him? He was still copying my But don't tell anyone. Why? No reason. It's just a deal. But... you made one fatal mistake. You shouldn't have hit a woman. You better apologize. Where's Myeong Gun? Thank you very much, Colonel Choi. We should... Good work. I'm sorry. I failed to protect Woo Cheol. Colonel Choi, thank you for your good work. Welcome home! Colonel Choi Min Ho reporting to the General and NIS Director. Mr. Song, here's our findings. Professor Siu Chi Yan is According to INTERPOL intel, his 2 messengers and a black market buyer called His Majesty were last seen in Estonia. This is where we suspect they concluded the deal on DC8. We analyzed the data Mr. Lee left us, we believe Helios' next target should be in Kyoto. The train for Demachiyanagi Station Mr. Song, we're ready. You know Italian too? How erudite. Almost didn't recognize Professor, you're a hard man to track down. But you still found me. Helios deserves his reputation. You didn't come all this way We found the buyer. Mr. Fan also helped me They haven't contacted you for so long. What if they betrayed you? We have something you don't. It's called trust. You're harder to catch than I thought. My messengers stole 16 cubes If they don't call me within 20 minutes, the other cubes will be There were no cubes, right? When I accepted the order, I've been thinking where to crash that Korean plane carrying With someone good at attack, With someone good at defense, How long has Xiao Yuan worked for you? You haven't made contact for so long. You have more than 2 messengers. &quot;According to the assessment &quot;detonating such a highly &quot;can wipe out a radius of 300 km.&quot; &quot;Detonating 8 of them&quot; &quot;will wipe out an area 4 times &quot;The battle against Helios...&quot; &quot;...has just begun&quot;