Unexpected Card Lan Terong Hand over Tiger remember Never come back again Chu, Xiong Han Yes, Yan, Ji Feilian war King These people These are the forces you will face in the future. Tiger Warriors of Chu Barbarians Carrying heavy loads in Fujisawa every day So he is short and strong Difficult to deal with Yan State is located in the far north Years of war with the Huns Good Special Catch Net Your Majesty, look Once hit and captured There is no chance of survival The Rage of a Trapped Beast Unbearable Chu Win The most powerful crossbows in the world all come from Korea Korean Tiger Warriors are all masters of mechanical skills This equipment Hidden secrets Against him It's a dangerous situation. Qi is a great country All the tiger warriors of Qi Choose One Close range invincibility Laborers are ruled by others The same is true for fighting South Korea Win Wei , Wu Gang right Wei Qingqing Come on Kneel down for me I'll spare your life Come on I lost No one is worth your kneeling This Qingqing What kind of bravery is this? Assassin's Sword Blade Thousand I give up Qingqing Win King It's General Fan's turn Qin Fan Yu Qi To Chu Xiong Han Are you sure he can do it? Must win You spilled my drink. I lost Today's battle Ding Bahuang Tiger, tiger, tiger Alang Let's get started The King of Qin Arrives Chu, Xiong Han Yes, Yan, Ji Feilian war King These people These are the forces you will face in the future. Tiger Warriors of Chu Barbarians Carrying heavy loads in Fujisawa every day So he is short and strong Difficult to deal with Yan State is located in the far north Years of war with the Huns Good Special Catch Net Your Majesty, look Once hit and captured There is no chance of survival The Rage of a Trapped Beast Unbearable Chu Win The most powerful crossbows in the world all come from Korea Korean Tiger Warriors are all masters of mechanical skills This equipment Hidden secrets Against him It's a dangerous situation. Qi is a great country All the tiger warriors of Qi Choose One Close range invincibility Laborers are ruled by others The same is true for fighting South Korea Win Wei Wugang right Wei Qingqing Come on Kneel down for me I'll spare your life Come on I lost No one is worth your kneeling This Qingqing What kind of bravery is this? Assassin's Sword Qingqing Win King I have organized today's drawing board into a book Please take a look, Your Majesty No need What we saw today It's already engraved in my heart. The King's Great Strategy Will create a world hegemony There's no need to say these words. How is General Fan now? Can you be sure of winning? A small space Why should the king take it to heart? This king wants to win the world so Can't Lose promise General Fan You're drunk again Lu Buwei Go and tell the King of Qin If it weren't for you, I won't lose to Li Mu lose You've already lost I can't lose again. I didn't lose The fight in the tiger circle concerns the reputation of the Qin State Your wife and children held in Xianyang I guess they I don't want to see you like this I beg you to let me go. What did you say I can't hear Please let me go I beg you remember Don't lose guard Qingqing To Korea Blade Thousand I give up Qingqing Win King It's General Fan's turn Qin Fan Yuqi To Chu Xiong Han Are you sure he can do it? Must win You spilled my drink. I lost Admit defeat If you give up, you will die. Don't kill my sister, I beg you. What's your name? sister A Liang sister Livestock You bunch of beasts sister sister sister sister sister sister Livestock You bunch of beasts sister Livestock Fight with them Is Frostflower okay? Go to rescue people Xin Qiji Hurba A Liang sister Hide now sister A Liang A Liang A Liang I want to go home A Liang A Liang A Liang A Liang Don't worry My sister will definitely avenge you. Big Brother Now we have no home. After the Jin people are driven away Build a new one Big Brother Where are we going next? Taian We go to Tai'an City This life will never be Song land I, Xin Qiji, swear not to be a human being Boss We are brothers Working without sleep every day I really can't move. I don't care about this Anyway, the Jin people will come whenever they want. By then Leave a broken wall for the commander He must have peeled my skin off Boss Is the stuff ready? alright Keep an eye on it. yes Is it cooked? Ripe Report What's the matter? A group of cavalry was found outside the city Tai'an City has arrived You wait for me here Big Brother People in this place It seems that we are not very welcome. I'll go with you This is the rebel army, not the Jin army. What are you afraid of? Be careful rest assured Hey, this place doesn't accept refugees anymore. Let's go We are the righteous army of Sifengzha Not a refugee Nothing Don't leave anymore The next arrow will hit you in the head Please inform the general. Don't you understand what people say? roll Your arrow is too soft. Can't shoot me court death alert Don't be nervous, General. I'm here to look for someone. no This time, even if you say I have to fight this battle too. Look at the young and old men in this city. My eyes are green with hunger Let's let the Jin people's grain transport team pass. How do you want me to explain this to my brothers? I didn't say I wouldn't let you fight this battle. But how to fight You have to think it over. The Jin army's grain transport team had at least 5,000 people. Hard Hit I think you just want to take your brother's life. Change your food fart Jia Rui, you stinky scholar I tell you You are afraid of the golden man I am not afraid of Geng Jing Geng Jing, I'll tell you too I don't listen This war is not farming. I'm a farmer. Anyway, as long as I am here You don't want to go anywhere No one can stop me today. Walk away Jia Xiucai Are you okay? Report What's up The Jin people are coming No, not really. There is a man named Xin Qiji who wants to lead people into the city Said to be a classmate of Deputy Commander Jia not see not see 1 Deputy Commander Jia asked me to tell you not see What else This truckload of food is for you. What does it mean? When we are beggars What's wrong with begging? This is a chaotic situation. It's good to have a stutter I'll smash your mouth The food was collected Go back and tell Jia Rui I'll wait for him outside the city. If he doesn't come to see me I won't leave. Hammer Harvesting grain Harvesting grain Stinky beggar Still a tough one Boss Your meat is stewed. General Hurba General Hurba Take me to see the prince yes I asked you to take 2,000 people to Sifengzha to recruit soldiers. But only one person came back How do you want me to punish you? Huerbadan died to atone for his crime But please, Lord Before Rang Huerba died Killed Xin Qiji with his own hands You are talking about Xin Qiji, the grandson of Xin Zan. That's him That day I led people to Sifengzha to recruit soldiers But was ambushed by Xin Qiji Lord If Huerba could not kill Xin Qiji with his own hands Then I will die with regret. Come on, let's go and heal our wounds. My Lord go Meier What do you think about this matter? I've heard of this person. This is Xin Qiji's literary and military strategy Quite famous But he was not only unwilling to be loyal to the Jin Dynasty They also organized rebels to oppose us everywhere. Father It's better to let Mei'er take action Solved this person No There is still one month left We are about to set out to join the Southern Expedition Army Before that Find him for me. yes Remember No orders from me No unauthorized action allowed I understand It's been three days. I don't think they're in a hurry. nonsense Deputy Commander Jia gave them a cart of food. Enough for a month It's only been three days. Why are you in such a hurry? It's so lively. I want to go there. OK Stop choking me with words. I'll go talk to them. It should have been like this a long time ago Go ahead Then I went What are you waiting for? Go ahead. This side Don't run come over Finally showed up Take a break Brother Jia, long time no see What are you looking for me for? Sifeng Gate was destroyed I brought them to join the army. Your grandfather was a member of the Jin Dynasty official family. Want to join the army and join the Jin people? I have prepared food for you. If it's not enough, I'll give you another car. So many years have passed It seems you still haven't gotten over that incident. Don't worry I came to Tai'an City only to fight against the Jin I know you love being an official. I won't compete with you for the position of deputy commander of the rebel army. Xin Qiji Bring me my bow good Protect the deputy commander Aren't you going into town? Can Now there is a Jin army of 5,000 people Heading to Tai'an City I'll give you eight hundred people. The battle was won I let you into the city how Scared If you're scared, just get out of here. five hundred I only need 500 people Jia Rui See you in Tai'an City Big brother, it's almost time to start. Wait a minute It's too late if we don't take action now Don't rush Hands-on Road closure Array kill kill Pick up the weapon Reorganizing the defense Release the arrow We have some of our people among the generals. Didn't you hear me telling you to shoot? It is preparation put put Are you okay? fine Just a little scratch Hammer Here it is open circuit Brothers, rush for me Give me a rush Kill Hammer The general is dead Come back with me Don't be silly Tai'an City cannot be defended You and I once vowed to restore the Central Plains Yiduan, have you forgotten everything? A man of insight is a wise man The Song Dynasty is in decline This world belongs to the Jin people. The people can live in peace and security I'll ask you again Will you come back with me? There is a sea of suffering but no return Since you insist on betraying the enemy and surrendering From today You and I are no longer related. Irreconcilable Come The Golden Man is coming tonight Youan Go and fulfill your ideal