- As a real estate guy, I can make millions of dollars and use the exact same tax loopholes that Donald Trump would use. - And pay effectively no tax. And does that make me a bad guy or did I just study the tax code? - It makes me a bad guy, yeah. (upbeat music) - [Host] Step forward if you agree, being poor is a choice. - I do not wanna be disingenuous, to ignore systemic issues But, I feel like it's 2021 and there's a lot of free resources. I mean, Facebook has I think that poor is also a mindset. - I agree. Originally, when I came out here, I started straight at I had to flee from domestic violence from my family. - Most people, in general, But, since I've been a lot of people outside, they don't want to come into the shelter because they rather be, in the tents. - I mean, I grew up poor. - Okay. - So I have been on - [Hanifah] Okay. - And I can reflect and look back on some of the lifestyle choices some of the people that So I don't think that if they're born into poverty. - But I think that there is that comes along with being able to-- - Yeah. - Have that determination yeah. - [Host] Can I have the - We need to realize that, not because of their own choosing, but because, of the perpetuates these things. - If I could speak to that. I come from a family that once relied on welfare and food stamps. And I have been blessed enough in real estate. But, had I bought real I'd probably be bankrupt today. I just bought it at the right time. - People wish to be rich, The difference is, do you take action? That being said, I agree you're making about people, not really having the to have any kind of action plan. - Some people don't even wanna be rich. Like, I don't wanna be rich. Like, but I also don't wanna be poor. I'm happy in the middle. And I would want to live in a society where they could perpetuate people, to lift themselves out of And just be in the middle. (dramatic music) - [Host] Billionaires should not exist. - I don't see how anyone could It's not a necessity to And I feel like, there is like, you can completely with this amount of money. And then, if you surpass - And then we've seen what are doing with their money. They're going to space for fun. Like. - Clearly, if we tax and get their wealth and distribute it to people who need it, that'd be a much better use - [Mia] Personally, I don't with billionaires existing. The issue for me is that, they the same way poor people do. And I'm talking about the justice system. - When you look at a lot of billionaires who have gotten that way because of the, just, incredible amount of I won't even talk about a I'll talk about Jay-Z, He made amazing music. That's how he became a billionaire. And so, I don't think to interject and say, We need to give it away. I mean, it would also never No one's gonna go, hey, Simone Biles, you have too many gold medals. We're gonna take them from you. And we're gonna give who weren't as talented as you. - I completely agree. - I completely disagree. I feel like, that is a government's job. And Jay-Z, like you said, Jay-Z That's his labor. He's a musician. He's selling his talent. But then when he invested in the alcohol, then he's using other people the agave, they're breaking their back, they're using their labor. - So do you think that he Should they just like, say, I'm not gonna invest in you. - Jay-Z -- - What about the jobs? - What do you mean? - They're having jobs. - Yeah. But, how much are they Or those jobs in the third world where they're getting paid pennies. - Yeah, versus your job. makes millions off their labor. - How much do you pay your employees? - More than enough. harvesting isn't gonna exist if Jay-Z doesn't invest? - If I may interject. I pay my employees like, incredibly well. And I let them choose their own hours. Someone who works for I pay her 50 bucks an hour. And I think that people and opportunities, you can But at the end of the day, like, nobody would work that job if it wasn't in some way, - People who make a billion of the value they create. Everybody here who has a Even Jay Z only gets 15 Okay? That's because, he got who's using his label to make money, then when he invests. you keep using this word exploiting, like you understand the record Okay? Record labels back hundreds of artists. Do you know how many go busto? - [Brit] Yeah. - Okay? They're taking risk in paying the engineers, They're exploiting them? They're taking on a bet. And they can't just give everybody 50/50, they'll go bankrupt. You don't understand a record business and you're just yelling out like, you know what you're They're not exploiting. - That's why there's one of him. - And not trying to-- wanna ask a question of and why you're saying that. - I'm using exploited in your labor creates value takes that value and to themselves and then leaves That's exploitation. (dramatic music) My name is David. I work for Disney in the And I make around $33,000 a year. - [Host] How has your experience - My experience working at The workers themselves, like my coworkers are amazing people. Unfortunately, the They don't pay us that much. They have enough money to pay us more. I think they should just pay us more. But I don't think they're gonna do that. That's why I'm advocating for a union, to bargain in our favor. - My name is Jenny. And I run a software design agency. And this year, I'm going to When I started my business, that was like all consuming for me. Everything I did in my And so, I think my partner And so a lot of our arguments, a lot of the times that, we had issues were because of my absence. - [Host] The economy is rigged. - I would actually. - If you're born in a rich family, you have more opportunities. And as someone who is poor, you're stuck having to apply to jobs and settle for things that you don't like instead of being able - I agree and disagree. I agree that it's rigged to and behaviors. Like we have millions and So it supports agribusiness. - Oh, yeah? - It may support one area. Like, real estate or capital But, I don't think it's basically keep the rich guy rich and the poor guy poor, that part I'll disagree. But there are certain policies, like, the reinvestment in for building real estate. I would say, that's a good thing, right? I don't think-- - When you say productive people, like, do you just mean people with money? - No. I mean, people that organize people, put it That's what I mean by productive people. - But who creates the value? It's the workers who create the value. - Listen, there's people who take risk, and they risk their money. That's creating value. What you discount, is the person willing to risk their savings, okay. And provide capital for that venture, and to be paid last. So if it goes busto, the worker still gets paid, If it goes well, the worker gets paid and the investor makes money. You discount the role in any type of venture. Like, my mom didn't wanna be rich. She wanted to be a and do that and live in the middle ground. And that's fine. But there are people like me, who wanna take a lot of risk, and get a lot of reward. And we put that capital to work. And you should respect that. Hi, my name is Bill Perkins. I run a hedge fund, I do I manage my own money. How much I make annually? Sometimes I lose money, but I'd say on average, I took care of my dad in he died, broke. I did not inherit my I really don't care about the money. Money is a tool for me that I wanna have out of life. And there are many - You have to have a and knowledge to know And I think that there are prevent people from knowing the rules. But I think that it's out there and you who can have access to it. And it's, you know, I think is different. I know the rules and I That's why I wanna change them. - Why don't you play the game then? I mean, you can change-- - I think they're disgusting. Why would I wanna play the game? - As a real estate guy, I can make millions of dollars and use the exact same tax loopholes that Donald Trump would use. - Exactly. - And pay effectively no tax. And does make me a bad guy or did I just study the tax code? - It makes me a bad guy, yeah. - You think so? - If you do that, yeah, definitely. - I'm following the law to a T there. - The law is wrong. Yeah. - Why is it wrong? It's the law. - You think, just because - No, certainly not. Certainly not. - No, I'm not saying that. But that's my point. - The law is written to is which they want. So he's investing. So like, the law is written If you disagree with it, but he's not a bad guy. - I know you mentioned that that do keep people, kind of But, I don't think that we all - Well, that's where I was going. So if I can reflect on myself, I mean, I remember when I was just trying to survive. So I didn't even have the or the willpower to kind of even desire to access the rules of the economy. But, I mean, I had an epiphany and I literally woke up I cannot live the rest And I don't care if people They're gonna question my Blackness. I mean, I don't care. I'm getting out. Well, speaking about Blackness, do you think there's a correlation between people from the African diaspora and people of color and poverty? Do you think there's like - It's true that, you know, I belong to a community that makes less than certain other communities. That's true. - Significantly less. But you also, you can't look at differences it's only because of systems. Systems played a huge deal to it. I'm not discounting that at all. Like, it's a real big deal and But also, I mean, statistically like, people and people, you know, around this, in these communities, they spend about 50% more on shoes than people who are not And it's like, man, that-- - Well, not only that Todd, but I think I looked up a recent statistic that said that Asian households, their children tend to where in a black household, - I know you said it's But when you think about as like African people, We didn't have a chance like the other people did. So I feel like, like, how you have mentioned they study more than Black households. You don't feel like those in their upbringing to be more inclined to care about their finances, as opposed to like African Americans, we would rather look rich I think that's a part - It's a culture, it's a choice. - Well, it's-- - It's not a choice. - I don't. - To a certain extent. It's 2021. - We're not-- - I do think it's a choice. I'm not gonna say it's not a choice, but I'm saying, do you feel like some people as other peoples in different communities? - I think some people don't to allocate the energy, to learn the rules of the &quot;game&quot;. Because their instincts are kicking in to just survive. I think trauma plays a heavier role than we like to account for. Trauma is the reason why I'm here. I come from a family, a heavily cult, Islamic family. And the things that I was doing in my life They didn't agree with. They pretty much sent people I was set up multiple times. They hacked my social media pages, both my iPhones. - You know what I mean? So I don't wanna just as if it doesn't really matter in terms of what you are capable of doing. Because, people that are traumatized and people that do deal tend to get some of their choices removed. - I can acknowledge that, yes. - My name is Hanifah. I'm an author. And I'm currently homeless. So I don't make any money right now. I grew up Muslim my entire life. And in Islam, it is permissible So my family enforced sexual It led to me having to flee my hometown and come all the way to California, which is 2,600 miles away, just that I can avoid being killed. - [Host] I've worried where - Me and my partner right - Yo. - Because we are just like, And I'm supporting both of us because she just lost her job. We are like, literally trying to get help from the government so that we can know that we have the funds to get groceries. It's so hard and it feels like, it feels like it's not as - (whispers softly) - To have everything and to not know where you're gonna sleep. (sobs softly) It's just very difficult. You know, almost feels like everything, you know, I had bags. I had to take my little Michael Kors back to the pawn shop, take every item of clothing so I could buy a one way I didn't know what we were gonna eat. I didn't know where we were gonna sleep and not to be a victim, but it's not my fault It's 'cause, I speak out I speak out against pedophilia. And publishing my story has, the domino effect of that where I'm gonna eat. And I've never had that prior to four months ago. And that's just really tough. - Thank you for sharing your story. That's really powerful. And yeah like, if you need help, like, after this, let's just talk. That pulls on my heartstrings because I, my mother raised us three kids by herself and my father was a wife beater. He was also a child molester. So anyone listening can I feel for you. - I almost wanna jump out because there's only a short And just, that short period of time when you're busted or whatever. And you're just like, whatever, but you guys were like in the real, thick of it. - You guys are in the trenches. I visited the trenches for like a couple. - You had a toe in the trenches. in the trenches, you know? - So I'm getting paid And on top of that, I have a I'm addicted to weed, I'm addicted to vaping. And as soon as I have that direct deposit, it's like I have no control, almost like I go, like I black out and I start gambling and start ordering drinks, And then I come out of and I'm like, thinking, how am I gonna feed my pets this week? My cat, my dog. Like, I had all these before I know it all my money's gone. And it's addiction. - When you're in a position when you don't have a lot of money, you can't do a lot of things for fun. And you're often just like, working, working, working. I have to survive, I have to feed myself. And so when you get that paycheck, and you have just a to do something that it's so hard to be like, no, It's like, I'll just do I'll just treat myself. And then, it's like, (sighs) - [Mia] It spirals. - Now it's gone. - I completely understand And I used to like that too. But I also thought about how I would rather not have Because the gratification or more stable is more important. My name is Brittany. I am a holistic health practitioner. And I make around $130,000 a year. My relationship with my since I've have acquired more money. He only calls me when he needs something. The only person that I really I haven't spoken to my brother. I want them to be happy and you know, and successful more than anything. But it almost feels as just the help and not a sister, or a cousin or something like that. Yeah. - My name is Mia. And I'm currently working as a customer service representative for a moving and storage company. I make 45K a year. My family has always been like, oh, you gotta look presentable. You gotta look nice whenever or to the mall. But as an adult, you know, a lot of my money isn't going towards buying new clothes or jewelry, makeup, whatever it might be. So you'll catch me in And I just don't feel presentable to be at a restaurant. Because of that embarrassing feeling and shame of not investing - The disagreers. - You just hanging out back there. (group laughs) - You know, I feel like I - So have you ever worried about where your next meal was gonna come from? Ever? - Oh! No, I definitely have, like, when I was in college, I was trying to buy groceries and the lady behind me ended And it's so embarrassing And I had no money in the - [David] That's the worst feeling. - [Host] $15 an hour, is - I did have a question for you two. You both mentioned that And that as soon as you whether it's gambling or weed or shopping or whatever, if you had a higher - Personally, yes. Because the whole reason I gamble is like, let me get that $60,000 That's my mindset, right? And another thing is I feel like, passive income, I guess you can say, or be financially stable, I can pursue and distract Like, I wanna start a true but I don't have the laptop, The addiction takes control. So I don't think about and I just feel numb and thoughtless and I'm just enjoying my TV. And so yeah, I feel like it would change. I would be able to have other distractions that are beneficial to - If you had more money, you could probably have access to help, like, medical help. - Yes. - You know, psychiatrist. Because that's really expensive and you can't afford it you know? - I feel like, a lot of but they will expect maximum effort. And I'm like, if you're I'm putting in the bare minimum effort. - I've always looked Like, if I go into a company and they're paying me minimum wage, I'd do everything that Hi, my name is Todd. I am 29 years old. I am a real estate And I make about $1.4 million per year. When you grow up the way I did, with no money. And your mom is struggling and crying herself to sleep every night because you can't pay the bills, that takes a toll on you as a kid. And seeing that struggle. I got my first job when literally shoveling horse And I looked at myself, and I was like, you've gotta make a million dollars a year by the time you're 30. - My name is Sean. I'm 23 years old. I'm a musician and content creator. And I make minimum wage at a retail job. If I wasn't having to work then I would have more time to make music and connect with people and And if I had the money, I would be able to market so that it could reach a wider audience. - For me, my mindset is, working minimum wage is always temporary. It's always been like, okay, we work minimum wage, but we're gonna work And then we're gonna do - Many, many, many years ago, you could go live off the land. You didn't have to work for All the land is taken. It's in federal land. You can't go fishing in You can't do that. So that's not possible at scale. In order to survive, you must work for someone else. That forces wages down, right? People can't just go, F you. I'm not gonna work. I'm gonna chill and work So that's the part where I agree with you. And like, I'm a supporter of UBI. so that people aren't forced to work. Now where I disagree, is that, we don't pay people And you were kind of pointing to this. I give the minimum effort But there's certain jobs that just frankly not worth it. Maybe they're worth five. Maybe they're worth two. I want you to watch TV and tell me how many commercials come up. 'Cause I'm doing a survey. I'm gonna pay you $7 an hour. You think I should have to Or would you take $7 an and count commercials that - I think it's-- - I mean, yeah, I would take any money. - Okay. So everybody here agreed that it should be $15 an hour minimum wage. - [David] Yeah. - But by making the wage $15 an hour, you just eliminated a job - [Host] More money, more problems. - More money, more problems. But, that's a path that I'm the problems that come I can't imagine going back there. I made it a point to position myself, adjacent to people who I I remember parking my off of Griffith Observatory just to be around money. - [Sean] You guys mind if I start? - Yeah, please. - A lot of the problems in my not even if I was rich, but just like a little bit more money. I would just have so much less stress and less things to worry about. And I wouldn't be finding where I'm worried about, How am I going to get gas to drive? How am I gonna eat? - More money like, more right? Going back to-- - What does that mean? - Like, if you're a you have social responsibility who might have less than you. - Really? - I'm not seeing that. In modern day life. - You have billionaire beef. You got a billionaire beef. what are billionaires doing-- - Yeah, Mia. - I wanna add real quick to I had my first felony I had gotten a DUI in 2018. So I was still going in I'm struggling trying getting interviews, getting a job offer, background check, offer rescinded. And that hurts a lot. But, I'm over here watching &quot;The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills,&quot; and Yolanda Hadid's daughter, just so happens to also get a DUI, but, she's taking off Like, it was just a hiccup. I'm also seeing cases of affluenza, where, this kid, driving killed someone. - And he gets off for &quot;affluenza,&quot; which means you're too rich to know what's good or bad. in prison. - So you don't get any repercussions. - Oh, I've never. - Yeah, it was in Hollywood too. - I agree with my punishments. I messed up and I will accept it. - But you want it to be fair treatment. - Exactly. - 'Cause when I see that Like, what is the justice system? That's not just justice. - Listen, I like the song, more money, more problems. - I like it too. - It's a jam. - I love-- - But, it's really more - Yes. - [Host] And that's a cut. - Okay. - We did it. - That's a wrap. - [Bill] What do you (indistinct). - [Jinny] Oh, we don't. - [Bill] Is it Python? - [Jinny] No, we don't (soft music)