- Steve said, let's do a collab. I said, I'll fly to - That's how it is. (drill buzzing) About 140 years ago, this ramp was used by the British military to that seemed impossible. Like when you hear how the your intuition just tells The Brennan torpedo doesn't Instead, it is powered from the outside, which is already quite unusual. Inside the torpedo is a spool of cable and via some pulley, through the center of the propeller at the back of the torpedo. And to get the torpedo to go forwards, you pull the cable And just intuitively, it feels to make something go forwards So I suppose the torpedo would slide down like a pair of these things. Obviously, it's really broken, So the cables would've There should be a location there where there would've been steam engines pulling on the cables. I dunno if you can get over there. I don't fancy hopping over I have no reason to because its use is well documented. But at the same time, any working models of the Brennan torpedo. So there aren't any videos that I can watch or anything like that. And I really like to see things So I had to make it real. This is what we came up with. It follows the basic principle You see, the cable It comes out the other side and goes around these pulley here, so that when you pull on the cable, it causes the spool to turn. The spool is attached to the axle, and so the propeller turns as well. And honestly, holding the reality of it makes it Like I'm applying a force backwards. So that's gonna pull but it's causing the propeller that it's pushing the torpedo forwards. So these two forces are in And my intuition says that like maybe under perfect conditions, when there's no friction, no resistance, no energy loss at all, maybe these two forces and the torpedo will But there's just no way out of the propeller than before we try to solve that mystery, let's see if this thing actually works. And look, there it goes, but it does go forward. And to be clear, this didn't These are all the We could have spent a bit but it's a proof of concept. Like the thing goes forward when you pull the cable backwards. If you want to have a I'll leave a link in the free for anyone to download, of course. Though, if I was going I'd need some kind of online store, but I'd want a system that of the business, not just I could use the sponsor That's because Odoo is an all for entrepreneurs with a whole built in, like invoicing, and they're all designed The first Odoo application including unlimited hosting and support. The project management app, for example, helps you track progress, and it's really customizable. So you can prioritize what It offers three different views There's the kanban view like sticky notes to Then there's the Gantt view for tracking schedules and deadlines. And for the nitty gritty I dunno if I've said this before, but I'm a big fan of batch actions. Well, list view has batch actions too. All these views are customizable, and you can share those custom so everyone has quick access Because all Odoo apps are linked when you log time in the that data syncs instantly And from there you can and team performance and so on. Odoo removes a whole bunch Removing manual steps is another thing that I'm a big fan of. You can also add notes and and schedule meetings from within the app, and it's fully synced with your calendar. So whether you've got a business idea or you are looking to Odoo can help you stay To start using your first app for free, click the link in the description. So I've come up with an explanation Yes, that's what I'm calling it. And I think the explanation And actually I think it relates to a video Derek from Veritasium made faster than the wind. In that video, Derek describes a vehicle that can travel in the but faster than the wind, and it's propelled by the Like if a vehicle's once the vehicle reaches then the relative speed And surely the vehicle can't I thought I'd run my explanation of the Brennan torpedo past Derek to see if he could spot the - One of the things that like if you could make unspooling like very low, then it feels to me like you to pull this out the back. - Okay, so that was of my explanation, right. So let's imagine a situation, there's no propeller here, right? We take that away, and let's imagine just by some physics there's no resistance at all, anyway, when you first pull on it, there because this has gotta accelerate. - Sure. - Yeah. it's just you don't need, right? - If I hold onto it during and then I let go, I can just And it's just gonna be stationary. But then when we add the propeller, that resists being turned, and not only during the acceleration phase when you are overcoming the but actually there'll always of the propeller because it's that's around it. In other words, it's only that leads to their being So when we're analyzing the system, those are the only forces It's the propeller pushing that has a reaction force on the propeller that pushes the torpedo forwards. And that reaction force of the propeller, which That needs to be true from but you have to be doing to get the thing to go forwards. You're doing work against the force, which is the tension in the cable. That tension ultimately that the propeller is pushing on water. So the work you put into ultimately goes into pushing water out the back of the torpedo. But that's not gonna cut it We really need to look - It feels like the the amount of force that you to the amount that this - Yeah. - Plus any sort of extra So it feels like, in fact, than you'll be able to because you're always gonna and losses and stuff. - It's quite hard to analyze because of- - Fluid is complicated. - I had the same thing when I was trying to do the downwind vehicle. I was like, yeah, but - So here's my idea, right? We switch to levers, and I that the lever version So instead of a propeller backwards out of the torpedo, to push a mass out the So the lever is like the propeller, and the mass is like the water. The big difference is with a propeller, it's continuously pushing water, but here it's like one But you could imagine, you like a paddle steamer- - [Derek] Paddle wheel. - Yeah, exactly. And then Yeah, exactly. So hopefully that feels like not too much of a departure from the propeller, but now we can more So suppose we decide to pull on the cable with a force of one newton. So what forces the pulley feeling? Well, the tension in the cable So the pulley is feeling And in case that doesn't just imagine the vertebral case. If I have a one newton weight by pulling down here with one newton also, or I can replace my hand with And so of course, the is just the total weight of these two. In other words, two newtons. So the pulley fills a but it's anchored to the torpedo, so the torpedo is pulled with a force of two newtons. So, so far it seems like the torpedo should be pulled backwards. But what about the lever? The lever is also anchored Well, this end of the of one newton from the cable. And on the other side of the of the mass is also applying So the pivot point of the of two newtons forwards. And because it's anchored to the torpedo's feeling a force So the two newtons and the two newtons cancel each other out, and so the torpedo goes nowhere. So you've got two newtons It shouldn't go anywhere. - Bada bing, bada boom. - There you go. Okay. Now here's the trick. - [Derek] You sneaky bugger. - So now we've got mechanical advantage, right, in the cable. Now the cable is twice as as the mass. So the cable has mechanical advantage. So if we wanted to continue to the mass, the cable of half a newton. And again, that's something when we're talking about and masses and things like that. Like when I've got mechanical advantage, I don't need as much force on this side to keep the mass on So the total force on the plus half a newton. That's one and a half newtons. So the torpedo is being pushed forwards with one and a half newtons But what about the pulley? Well, since we're only with half a newton, that's half a newton. And again, you've got half a newton on both sides of the pulley. So the pulley is feeling a force of half a newton plus half a newton. That's one newton. So the pivot is pushing with one and a half newtons, and the pulley is pulling with just one newton. You've got one and a that's half a newton forwards net, so the torpedo goes forwards. So really, it's a mechanical advantage. And just in case you weren't convinced by all that theoretical talk, here's the lever setup in real life. So this trolley here is This is the lever. That lever gets pulled via the cable, which goes via the pulley. This is the mass. I just that I could, which happened It's got its own trolley of the torpedo. So let's see what happens with the cable. So there you go. The mass is ejected out this way, and the torpedo moves forward as a result. Just for completeness, when you don't have mechanical advantage. There you go, the mass and the torpedo goes nowhere. For complete completeness, when we have mechanical disadvantage. There you go. The torpedo and But anyway, the point is And the way that applies you can apply a small force at the cable and get a large force at the propeller. And just like in any situation where you have mechanical between force and distance. Like it's easy for me to lift this mass up because of the mechanical but I have to move my to move just a little bit. And so to get the Brennan you have to pull the cable out like crazy, just really, really fast. According to the Royal Engineers Museum, you'd be pulling out for every one kilometer that the Brennan Torpedo moved forwards. It's worth saying that where the mechanical with an actual propeller And that's because, well, and there are lots of variables, like the angle of the blades, the spacing of the blades, But one thing that is quite if you want to increase given a fixed propeller geometry, you can just increase the size of the drum that the cable wraps around. And in fact, you can see at the Royal Engineers Museum, so you can see those spools, and they're almost as wide With the black bird, you are as the force, but more, whereas here, you're putting backwards and it's going forwards. - Yeah. - But there's a particular where it's pretty much Can you think what? - I'm on the treadmill. See, the blackbird on the to the blackbird on land, to the reference frame of stationary air. But in this reference frame, it's just like the Brennan The rubber road of the coming out the back of the torpedo. It's pulling on the and making them spin, just like the cable of the torpedo is making the spool spin. And in both cases, that leads - You know, I also struggled, and I feel like a lot of people struggle with the sort of fluid and pushing air back, and it So at some point, I came up which is just running down the desert that's running at a certain speed. And then I imagined with some wheels, and I'm and I'm just holding onto the And then you think about, okay, what if I had a little generator that just pulls out a tiny and then you stick a little and you just very slowly It's like for me that it starts that like, actually, we can go faster than the cable is going. - And there's something about So with air, it's kinda but with a cable you can lock onto it. And the similar thing imagine that the mass is really heavy. Just stick my fist down on And then it's obvious what's gonna happen. And it's the same thing. You You can't grip onto the wind, but you can grip onto the cable - Yeah, yeah, yeah. actually had two cables and by some really clever to steer the Brennan by changing the relative that were coming out the back. I'd love to get into how but I think it's probably By some measure, the Brennan torpedo was the first ever guided torpedo. It was eventually superseded by a torpedo that had an internal power source, so that it could be launched from a ship. It still had a cable coming The cable wasn't for power. Instead it was for so that that type of torpedo And in fact, the Brennan for 15 years, and it was which perhaps explains why there aren't any but at least now there's this one. - So you're not gonna claim that I dereked you on this one? - [Steve] No, not this