Translator: Leonardo Silva My name is Elisabeth Wiklander, and I - I am autistic. What do you think about How do you react Would you say that it is An impairment? A disability? This is indeed the way but autism is so much more than that. No diagnostic manual can truly explain It is a neurological difference, with a vast spectrum of representation It can come with as well as devastating traits. But autism doesn't necessarily And thankfully, today we have a word &quot;neurodiversity.&quot; Neurodiversity describes from a neurological perspective. It suggests that the many variations should be accepted of humanity's genetic legacy. DNA shows us that autism something that has been and is still widely shared These genes can carry in spite of the difference they cause, that they have persisted and still flourish today. Some of our important inventions, pieces of art and music, and discoveries in scientific fields come from autistic minds. With today's exciting we have seen that autistic brains Not only that, but it appears as if each and every one So, autism is rich in expression, but still faces limiting generalizations. Today, I want to talk the one that blends with normality and can have catastrophic impacts not necessarily because but because of the ignorance of it or the failure to recognize as I eventually would discover. Now, in social situations, we do have expectations upon one another. We use a certain kind of rulebook, which, when followed, But I always felt that I was different. The trouble was I couldn't explain how, It felt as if I had been provided and that I lacked a community that could confirm to me that the way So, I grew up feeling very misunderstood, by pretty much everybody, even within my own family. If I applied what would have been upon someone else's the outcome was often negative So to me, the social world Now, I did notice, however, especially that my mind had been blessed with gifts, like analytical skills high capacity for memorizing information, which made studying So in my academic pursuit, where I studied at the university. I later went to the Netherlands, And today, I live in the UK, working as a professional cellist touring the world. But this, however, to stand on a stage just talking to you, I can't help the feeling Okay, so one may now think, &quot;Okay, she plays in this great orchestra. She's obviously done pretty well Well, I have a very literal mind, and it constantly clashes in social situations. It gives me a very direct line of approach I still don't really understand although I can appreciate it now. And jokes and sarcasm My mind just takes things in so literally. It loves to analyze everything. My world is a very intense one. My senses are heightened. My brain absorbs everything in My special interests And my emotions, they go from the highest of high and they're on and off My family, bless them, they can still stand in utter disbelief when I go from a complete nuclear blast in less than two seconds. Literally. So, okay, autism influences my thoughts, my imagination, my senses, my emotions, and the way I process information. But without knowing this, it was very difficult because our social expectations I could come across as odd, and I experienced But the most devastating, the most devastating were that dominated the relationships Body signals? Misread. Words? Completely misinterpreted. It was so frustrating. It was like fighting a ghost, something that no one could really grasp, not even the counselors So it was a mentally agonizing situation, that persisted year after year, and in my mid-twenties, and I started to be But then, something extraordinary happened In 2006, I heard about It is already an outdated term today, but it is still a form of autism, on the high-functioning end Three years later, I received this diagnosis, and I realized that had been based upon Imagine that! No wonder my life had been so confusing! But now, now I started to see myself My whole life and all my experiences This launched me on an incredible journey I had finally been given something that allowed me to explore the relativity compared to others'. I gained access into and I could start comparing it with mine. And so, I learned So in the coming years, I found efficient ways I learned to verbalize my needs, recognize my limitations and develop my strengths. I found successful strategies and significantly improved all But this took a lot of commitment, Because autism is a spectrum, I had to become like a researcher and collect a lot of information over a long period of time in order to be able to complete When I thought that I had reached the I kept feeling that something Something was still missing. I could change the way I acted, but I cannot change the way I am. My natural, biological calibration And the problem I had now was to live up that I had set for myself. I had come to understand my differences. But as you all know, Without acceptance I would never be truly happy, and this prompted me to one day On April 2, 2015, I announced my autism on social media, and I started to talk about it Bang! Just like that. I admit it was absolutely terrifying, because I had encountered the stigma, the prejudice. I was very afraid that people would put their rather than letting me show them But this didn't happen. What happened was almost overnight. I was met with curiosity, and support started to flood in from friends, from family, and from people I didn't even know. Media started to take notice, and people who recognized started to contact me, Seeing how common the situation was and how efficiently it could be reversed it inspired me to share that the knowledge of neurodiversity opens by identifying differences because they have been It unlocked my world and to communicate these So today, I'm a very happy person. I have got some wonderful friendships, I've connected deeper and I'm experiencing what it is to be with a wonderful man, who is thankfully also very patient, because misunderstandings, But now, now they can be resolved, so they're no longer a threat We have taught one another and it is enriching both of our lives. I'm still autistic, but I love it. I embrace it! I can no longer align myself because in retrospect, I understand that the suffering that I have experienced but from the impacts So if we need a cure for anything, it's for ignorance and intolerance. Differences are always challenging, but they are equally what makes this world Recognizing how we differ from each other helps us to coexist more smoothly without having to carve so much allowing our natural skills, talents not just for people but for all. By joining forces, we can create and inspire each other on new levels. The autistic population In the UK only, we are nearly one million people. So knowingly or not, you will find us We might be a family member, your boss, or a neighbor. You might have fallen in love Why? Why must we wear a one-size-fits-all Should what is neurologically accepted Is human value determined No, of course not. But yet, a lot of autistic can still not access because ignorance of our difference We deserve the same access to education, with knowledge and flexibility regarding We deserve the same access with understanding for our sensitivity to social deciphering and sensory input. We deserve appreciation and we deserve the same access where the true source of our struggle All services have to start evolving towards taking or a lot of people will continue and that is ultimately harmful It is unacceptable that because some they risk being bullied, and pushed to the edge of society, It is a weakness that deprives us that are valuable to us all, because they're different, because they think outside the box. The quirky kid from school, like me, has just as much to offer Every human being is a resource, and society has to broaden its framework This may seem a daunting task, Extraordinary things can no matter through which spectrum Thank you. (Applause)