Get ready to update your resume that because after this video, you will be. Last and this time I've got 10 hidden features that are got eight more features that aren't really secret, that are really useful, but not a lot of people So if you end up enjoying the video, be sure Starting off, we have the camera tool, which is and I'll show you how to add it to that in works. I have this demonstration Excel file and say I wanted to monitor the totals Well, I can use the camera tool to take a snapshot and this way it acts more like an image. So made a cell that referenced the other ones get this feature to show, just right click on Then on the right hand side, click &quot;new but you can rename it, and there will that you'll want to select. Then when and in the drop down, select &quot;commands not And then hit the button to add it to that custom it should also be under All Commands. you can add other stuff to, and next up we have the ability to import data Say I want to copy the information from a interest rates. I could just highlight and up to date and not copy it every single day? Web,&quot; it'll ask me for the URL that I put in, Now I should see a list of all the data tables see which table is which, though the label might it seems to have even found some hidden columns I can select the table and hit load, And this table in the Excel sheet is now connected if you go to Queries and Connections, or you can just hit the Refresh All button date whenever you want. There's also plenty I'm not going to get into all those, that would yourself. All right, the next hidden feature reference the same cell coordinate across multiple from each of these three sheets, and they all To do this, I would use the sum formula. And a range of sheets. And I can do a 3D following syntax. You would do the first and then the last sheet name, which is science. and then the coordinate of the cell I And now it will use those three K13 we have &quot;Go To Special&quot;, which is useful example. Say I have a sheet with a bunch and I just want to get rid of all those can do is go to the Home tab, and then under Or you can just hit F5 and then go to Special. cells. And once you do that, they'll all be and hit Delete Row, and that'll get rid of there were other ways you could Now speaking of cool stuff, let me which is a really cool service. Mine lets and lets you control where you do or don't want and just sign in with your email account you want Mine will only analyze the subject the first line preview snippet, plus companies you've interacted with. But as their content of your email for analysis. Then For me, there are over 260 which is probably not great. On the My Footprint but I got up the courage to look at and it is eye-opening. By clicking on a stores info like my financial, and identity And I can see that it has a pretty company that I barely remember signing don't really want them to have my and it will compose an email that will be And this point is important because companies from the person. Then, after you allow it to send and cancel it within an hour if you is important for businesses too, Mine has manage their own privacy operations, including So if you want to start reclaiming your own data, also put that link in the description. And with we have the ability to enable circular references. references itself, or a value that feeds into But you can actually enable it if you and then check &quot;Enable Iterative Calculations.&quot; you want. Now any circular references will work, or it also seems like if you edit And while I can't exactly think of a good example for certain people. However, I would keep because most of the time you probably this next one could be a lifesaver, and it To do this, go to the Options menu, and then under every,&quot; and then the default is 10 minutes, we have Custom Lists. Now you probably already like months of a year. But what if you have and would like that to be able to What you can do is go to Options, and look for &quot;Edit Custom Lists.&quot; And this will let have to be text, it doesn't seem to work with detects that you're trying to expand Moving on, we have the developer tab, which it by right clicking on the ribbon, hitting box next to developer. This adds several tools do with macros or forms, but it still might be One example is being able to add check and you'll probably need to look up a because they aren't very intuitive, but next hidden feature is Advanced Properties, and then Info, Properties, and And here it lets you easily set a bunch of you usually wouldn't be able to, like author, couple other tabs if you want to mess around indirect formula, and I wanted to mention this It's more like a meta formula, you might say. like doing equals E5, like here, it will you were to do equals indirect E5, the value within E5 as the reference This lets you do some interesting stuff, which I'll explain in a second, and also example where maybe I want to easily get where each total is in cell So I have a formula using indirect whatever sheet's name gets put in the it gets the [K13] cell of the science sheet. to make this a drop-down list? So I kind of First, I want to have a list of and you could put that anywhere. and then Data Validation. In the Allow box, I'll else to restrict what kind of data can be Then make sure that &quot;In-cell dropdown&quot; is checked, and for source, select that list of cells you now you can simply select the options as a and the indirect command makes it auto-update. more hidden, but now we can get to the part So they might be right in front of you, but with named ranges. This might be more common, just select any range of cells, and and you could actually type in a So for example, maybe I want to select and name it &quot;ComputerTotals&quot;. This way, instead of having to select it. it doesn't appear to be case sensitive, and also you can click the little drop-down in Next up, we have the Quick Analysis box, which but you probably maybe never it gives you quick access to a bunch of common creating a chart for that range, and So this might come in handy. Next up, we have the data, forecast, and then Forecast Sheet. This and shows you even upper and lower ranges as expand the forecast length, and you can even And if you want, you can hit create to create a on, we have the Watch Window. To get to this, you can add multiple cells that you may want to monitor the grand total value in the And that'll show the live up-to-date value when I want to talk about more of these And that's also located under formulas, Trace Dependents or Trace Prededents. If you it will show you where that value came from and it'll show you with arrows on those various Another really powerful option say we have this example with a table of wrong. No way you spent $60 on strawberries. stuff. And just imagine that this is a way more and you want to figure out what is causing So you can select that cell and hit evaluate short version of what this does, but you video for how to actually use it. But basically which basically means digging down You can also Step Out and go up a level and during each step. Eventually, I could see that which surely must be a mistake. Again, it might trace yourself, but in a much more complicated All right, moving on, we have one of Formatting. And you can get to this by going change the visuals of cells based on their of the presets for what they do. Maybe you Most of these are fully automatic you for additional info. Like if you want some value you select. But you can set really to &quot;format cells based on value,&quot;&quot; and then You can also choose what colors each thing only cells that contain.&quot; And then you can few options in there. Or you can select specific changing the cell color of something, depending on Or you can even set a whole custom formula powerful. And then of course, for all of look like based on the rules, and you can moving on, we have sparklines, which is like inches of rain per month for a whole but we don't want to make one huge messy graph, What I can do is go to the Insert tab, I can select the data range, and then select can see that each row now has its own mini bar you would see with a full graph, because it's all relative. But still might come in there's also option for a line graph. And like for showing if values are simply is the ability to apply the same You can select the multiple sheets you could right click a sheet and then hit to select multiple sheets individually, or of sheets. And now if you do something it'll do it to all of them, which is really so stuff shows up in the same place when to unselect the tabs after you're done, change a bunch of data on more sheets than you found these helpful. Let me know down in the and maybe which ones you learned about that Thanks again to Mine for sponsoring SayMine.com so you can start reclaiming your description. If you enjoyed the video, for my YouTube algorithm overlords. Also if I try to make videos about twice a week, usually Wednesday and Saturday. And if you want is where I talked about hidden Microsoft but for Word. You can just click on that right So thanks so much for watching,