G'day and welcome back to the workshop. Here's my current fly cutter and it's a bit It's time to make a bigger one. I'll be using this 75mm round bar, which is The main reason I'm making the video is because about fly cutters. I searched every machining channel I could If I'm wrong about that, please hit the like then that's great maybe we can chat about This material is pretty round, but it doesn't outside anyway, but it makes sense to get I'm using a WNMG cutter here, this is an insert and now I'm using an aluminium insert, which I'm not sure which I prefer yet, but I thought of them. I'm turning this shank down to 25mm which I should also mention, I'm copying this design I rang him up and he gave me some dimensions After experimenting with speeds and feeds This is 485rpm, 0.025&quot; DOC, and 0.006&quot; feed. I got tired of chips hitting me so I lodged of them. I saw Keith Fenner do that once a few years Obviously this is just carving off a lot of I'm getting the blue sixes and nines which As the diameter went down the finish got a surface speed to compensate and keep getting The new bigger lathe which I will setup soon like variable speed. Now I've turned the part around and chucked facing, the finish doesn't matter because minute. This is now a CCMT cutter. I find it quite difficult to get a perfect a little time with a file, and scotchbrite. I don't think there's a problem with that, Not a bad finish at the end, and I can't feel This thumbwheel I made a while back is still I'll leave a link in the corner. I do need to get power feed on this machine. All this cranking makes me cranky. I'm just installing the 12 sided collet block It's straight up and down at first, so I can and back, then use my DRO to halve that, and Then I tilt the work over, and I get it close a bit of a haircut. I'm using a 5/8&quot; or 16mm HSS roughing bit I don't strictly need to go down all the way Now I've gotta work out my endmill speed. 35m/minute surface speed for mild steel, and This is my method, it gives me a close approximation I have setup my VFD so that it knows the gearing the VFD to work out the final RPM, and so I'm taking it easy because there's a lot of heavy interrupted cuts, my quill splines get This keeps cropping up and so it's something One of the things I've read in the comments mistakes are shown in videos, so what I did so that I can include it in the video. It was easy to plan it out, I just made sure in the vise. So if you want to recreate that mistake, that's And later on, if you're well behaved, I'll So resetting the angle to 10 degrees. Going softly softly on the feed, and gronky I don't know why I changed feed directions way was least likely to pull the part out Answers on a postcard. And there goes the last bit. I recently found a skinny nozzle that fits I'd been using the standard large round one now I have more reach, cleaning up chips is yourself a favour and try it. Can't believe I went so long with just the Here is /fly cutter inception/, we're using Maybe one day the bigger one will be used There's nothing at all wrong with this small small. I'd like to be able to cut a larger area in This fly cutter was given to me by a good then I had it for my mini-mill, and when I on using it. But there are plenty of times where I do need That slot drill measured just under 12mm with I already have the Y axis zeroed on the middle diameter into the DRO, and use the half function This will offset the trench I'm about to make, of the workpiece. This is a bit like when you're using a lathe Not many people realise but quite a bit of 60s by the beatles. They had a practice of encoding specific machining For example in 1969 John captured this process old flattop, he come groovin' up slowly&quot;. I kinda need three hands for this. One to crank the feed handle, one to blow Or - I need a powerfeed, and a mist cooler. I have the bits and pieces around the place to do it, so watch this space. I also have to dial in with the fine quill I do have a digital quill scale which I can I can install for the knee axis, so if those but both of those scales need installing and There are a few jobs on the list like that, commissioned and usable. Plus the quill spline issue that I mentioned I'm being really careful here, because this earlier. I didn't really do that on purpose, it was I don't want to make the same mistake again, Then I had a major brain wave. I realised that I could hold the collet block tram in the freshly milled fly cutter head from the other direction. I think this is the better workholding solution. You can see I had a few goes at milling that I think it moved again once, and I lost a The new setup feels a lot more rigid, and I finish off this shoulder rebate with a climb I often get a bit of a squeal or chatter when slot drill, they are not really designed for 4 flute end mills have got a fatter core and tool for the job, but this worked fine - I'm And here's a good time to admit to a small This shoulder is 1mm deeper than it ought sideways in the vise earlier, it left some Doesn't change the functionality at all, it If it were an important precision part or the part, obviously. But for this, it's absolutely fine. It's only clearance for the screw heads Now for a bit of blissful zen hand filing. I really love watching people like Tom Lipton I've learned a lot about patience, and taking It's almost a meditation, very calming. I think it's well worth the time spent. You're only seeing a minute or so here, but And - it's a nice pause in machining. When you're hand filing, there's no noise, you into minced human meat. You don't have to wear a face shield, or have You can focus on whatever you want to focus for me. And it makes the end result so much better. Everything feels good, looks good. All the burrs have gone and the chamfers or Makes for a much more professional job. Anyway I'll stop there, I think maybe I'm I you don't like this stuff, skip ahead to After putting some finishing touches on, I And it's very tight, I wanted it to be a good It turns out that this insert tool is actually business end. That's fine, I don't think I'll ever need I was planning on making the fit good enough I didn't think that was too optimistic. I think I'll put them in anyway just for safety's So it's back to the mill for some spot drilling I'm using some sulphur based cutting oil to Tap drilling, then chamfering to give the And then I just lightly grip the tap in the of the collet, I would really like to make drive a couple of threads into the part. I finish those off by hand, these are not really. Clean off the goop and take off any exit wounds Then we're ready to assemble. I'm using a left hand tool here, which takes I've actually got a DCGT insert in it though, I'm feeding by hand of course, and probably of a cut too, to get a good finish, but I'm not kill the insert. So - I do that roughing pass, which still then I come back, and do a slower feed, with I'm really pleased with how this came out. Beautiful finish, and I couldn't be happier. This is a really useful addition to the machine, one go, and that's something I've never been I'm happy that this is a new tool made from And - with it, I can produce a better finish That's a win. Thanks for watching. If you found this useful and interesting, And - if you have just way too much money coin in the hat ... I mean patreon ... and and put them out more frequently. Thanks again, catch you next time.