You and the rest of your platoon are pinned Enemies are closing in from all sides. Bullets whiz above your head and ricochet You have been in some bad situations before, You don't see any clear way out other than You decide to call in air support. But can any amount of air support save you? There are just too many enemies. Then you hear a response over the radio. "Angel of Death is above your position. Hunker down, we got this," says the voice All of a sudden the sky lights up with gun You watch the enemy be completely wiped out This might sound like a story out of the Bible of U.S. soldiers have been supported in battles The Angel of Death refers to the AC-130 gunship. It's remarkable firepower, and long range, long periods of time. Air support from The Angel of Death always Gunships started with the AC-47. This aircraft was codenamed "Spooky" and During the Vietnam War the gunships were used support. The AC-47 showed the world what a gunship Sure it had limitations, but it's hard to gunship came through the battlefield. Imagine being in a squad that is pinned down You are in a firefight with Viet Cong soldiers. You have been ambushed and you and your men There are casualties on both sides as bullets The problem is that you are outnumbered. The longer the battle goes on, the closer One of your squadmates calls for support. From the sky above machine gun rounds rain Bombs fall and decimate the retreating enemy You look up in the sky and see the AC-47 circling Sunlight gleams off of its metal hull. The AC-47 continues to circle and provide But eventually it pulls out of its circling low on fuel and ammunition. The gunship has to return to base. Although the AC-47 rescued you and your squad, If only the AC-47 had a longer flight time Enter the C-130 Hercules. This gunship provided more cargo space for It also had a much higher fuel capacity than missions. The longer the gunship could stay in the air, Now when you called in for a gunship the C-130 longer periods of time. If your squad ever needed to call in for air would finish off the enemy completely. Towards the end of the Vietnam War gunships This led to the AC-130. It was the gunship of choice for the U.S. The military still uses this basic airframe Over the years new technology has been added fear. The original and unofficial nickname for the the Magic Dragon," or "Puff" for short. This name didn't stick however. Maybe it was because a big purple dragon was Or maybe the heads of the military weren't weapons associated with a cannabinoid drug. The AC-130 was and still is successful for The basic model has four Allison T56-A-15 17,200 horsepower. It has a wingspan of 133 feet and a length ammunition and mounted guns. It can reach 300 miles per hour and has a It is normally loaded with 30mm and 105mm any enemy targets that threaten U.S. soldiers Basically it's like having a fleet of flying And all for only 210 million dollars a plane! The AC-130 Angel of Death gunships made their The Airforce knew they had found the right more than 10,000 enemy trucks and provided for ground soldiers. After the Vietnam War the AC-130 provided the world. In the 1980's the military used them in In 1983 The Angel of Death was sent to Grenada The gunship played a vital role in supporting fought their way across the island to dismantle control of the island. After Operation Urgent Fury The Angel of Death where it was used to destroy military installations In the 1990's most of the United States There were also several missions in Somalia Operation Deliberate Force. These missions happened in 1993 and 1995 respectively. The first time The Angel of Death was used Storm in 1991. In the early 2000's it was used again during The AC-130 is still being used in conflicts But what is it like to be inside The Angel To be the one who is in charge of unleashing troops? We know that from the ground all a soldier the firing stops. Then they can be sure that the coast is clear. But what does it take to be a part of the Imagine you're sitting in the flight hangar You and some of the other soldiers are playing Show. It's your favorite YouTube channel. All of a sudden a siren sounds. You and your crewmates grab your gear and of the plane. Black letters run along the side of the green You take your seat at the gunner's station The propeller engines spin to life and you squad requesting air support. You are flying in one of the newly upgraded It has state of the art targeting equipment You know that as soon as you reach your target You hear the pilot through your headset. He informs the crew that the plane is about You feel the AC-130 bank right and begin its ground. The screen in front of you flashes to life. You're bathed in the luminescent green glow You can see individual bodies from thermal Nothing is going to get by you. You are given the signal to go weapons hot. "Let's do this," you say. You watch your monitor and select the newly There are enemy troops advancing quickly on You unleash bullets from the guns, mowing The plane carries more than enough ammunition be shy with the bullets. Your guns can fire up to 200 rounds a minute You hold down the trigger to force the remaining The dirt in front of the enemy explodes from running for cover. You then see a new supply of troops headed You switch over to the GBU-39 small diameter systems built into them. Once you mark a target for destruction your Every, single, time. The enemy truck approaches the pinned down You take aim and fire. The bombs fall through the sky and detonate Shards of metal and rubber fly through the The enemy vehicle goes up in flames as The The enemy is no match for your firepower. Next you switch to the 105mm M102 howitzer You see an enemy tank come around one of the It stops and takes aim at the location of Your M102 can fire ten 50 pound shells per But you know you will only need one good shot. You line up the howitzer, targeting the enemy You take a deep breath to make sure your aim Then you fire. The shell soars through the air and embeds The round detonates and the tank is destroyed. Threat neutralized. The pilot of your AC-130 notices that anti-aircraft side of the plane. It would take too long to maneuver the plane right side. You would be blown out of the sky before you Luckily, The Angel of Death has complimentary It doesn't matter which way the enemy is You flip a switch and your screen switches There is no time to waste. You fire all weapons at the anti-aircraft of the sky. Every single one of your shots is a direct Nothing can stop you and The Angel of Death. You switch back over to the guns on the right aerial support. The pilot signals an evac helicopter that The chopper lands outside of the building The entire squad rushes out of the building It lifts off and flies your brothers in arms Your AC-130 lands at the airbase. You meet up with the squad you just rescued It's good to have an Angel of Death ready The plane gets refueled and you take the night The Infographics Show. When you wake up the next day you are handed They are being built and prototyped in a few You see that the aircraft itself is lighter The new AC-130 burns 25 to 30 percent less It has a top speed of 416 miles per hour, than the current AC-130s. The new models are equipped with six-blade four-blade props to make it much more efficient. This gives the new model a 3,000 mile range. That more than doubles the flight distance It is amazing what new technology can do. You also hear top secret rumors that the new combat lasers. This is some futuristic firepower, but how You think about all of the missions AC-130s How many battles have been won and lives saved provides. It's no wonder that these aircrafts have All you know is that you're glad The Angel If you want to learn more about cool aircrafts Fighter Jets In The World. Or if you're curious what plane could save War 3 Airplane: E-6 Mercury. Either video will really get this watch party Thanks for watching, and, as always, don't See you next time!