- [Amiel] Hey, everybody. This is Amiel Stanek, Editor and this is Almost Every First we did chicken, now we're doing egg. This is an egg. Ovular in shape, they come but there's not a whole lotta Size, however, does matter So for consistency today, we're just using large, brown eggs. When you crack them, you can of a runny white and the which both contain different or harden at different temperatures. So just a few degrees of difference in cooking temperature or time are gonna have a profound impact on how the final egg turns out. We're gonna take these eggs as we can possibly think of, and the end results. [cymbal crashes] Raw egg. Okay, we could start this to cook eggs without also doing You know, people eat But we're just gonna take an it's nice and cold, and [dings] This is literally just There's nothing else going on, cheers. It doesn't actually taste like that much 'cause there's no salt or So it's just kind of a [cymbal crashes] Prairie oyster egg. A raw is a raw egg. But a raw egg once your put it into a cup and put little bit of and some Worcestershire on it, well then, you have what's [dings] Apparently this though I have my doubts. Let's give it a shot. It definitely tastes more than a raw egg. The smell is really hard once you've swallowed it. But we're not done yet. [cymbal crashes] Amber Moon egg. We've had a raw egg, we've now we're gonna make something which is basically all of Now, it's a cocktail. [dings] Alright, there it is an Amber Moon. Bottoms up, cowboy. Hmm, it's spicy, it's salty. The only thing that's hard is actually the qunatity of liquid. But I actually think and I drank this, I would or move on with my day [cymbal crashes] Sunny side up egg. What we're looking for here on the white, and then and ready to burst. We're not gonna flip and there you have it. Our sunny side up egg. [dings] This looks like an emoji egg. The white is kind of slippery and that yolk is ready to This is what you want for your rice bowl or on top of something It's delicious and very simple. [cymbal crashes] Olive oil fried egg. This time crispiness is so we need high heat. Throwing on my salt, and is an olive oil fried egg. You have this nice contrast between these really crispy lacy edges, and then right here Mmm, so you're getting a lot and a nice textural contrast between the super rich, oozy yolk and this almost almost pork-rindy white. This is definitely one to cook an egg. [cymbal crashes] Olive We're gonna fry another egg but this time we're gonna baste it. Which means we're gonna over the top of the egg while it cooks. [pop] Ooh, yeah, that hurt. Doesn't feel good but we're [dings] So the biggest difference here, where the last time we had a little bit of uncookedness right around the yolk, here it's completely cooked. Mmm, that tastes great. And this is a great way for somebody who's kind but is squeamish about uncooked white. [cymbal crashes] Olive This time instead of basting we're gonna add a little which is gonna produce steam that's gonna help to cook the egg. And we're gonna leave it in there for probably about a minute. [dings] So right off the bat, you're definitely seeing quite a bit of this crispy outside part and it's pretty well brown underneath. You still have that nice runniness, but again it's much thicker that we've been dealing with. Mmm, it's good. Over easy, over medium, We're gonna cook them for on this first side. And the only difference is once we flip them, they're of time on that second side, which is gonna dramatically So here we have our three So over easy, you can see the and then the yolk is just barely cooked. It's very fluid and runny. The over medium, the yolk is definitely a little bit more cooked, it's thicker, and kind of oozing out a lot more slowly. And here with the over is completely cooked. It almost looks like an or something like that, and the white is definitely for that one. So something for everyone. [cymbal crashes] Salt block fried egg. The idea here is that and it'll maybe season the egg somewhat. It's also taking a [dings] So there's your It's good but it's definitely or effective way to cook an egg. [cymbal crashes] McMuffin egg. We're gonna use a ring mold, so it doesn't just leak out everywhere. We want that yolk to be fully cooked 'cause you're gonna eat it in the car. [dings] And there we have The main benefit of this and for anybody who's fully [cymbal crashes] We're just gonna crack these that's set over medium to medium-low heat, and we're just gonna We don't want it to be too hot, otherwise our eggs are gonna Always make sure to before your think they're done to account for carryover cooking. [dings] There you have it. Cracked in a pan and scrambled. So what you're gonna notice here are these kind of distinct bits. Like that's mostly yolk, You definitely have some and some that are a little bit leaner, but there's nothing wrong with this method for scrambling eggs. [cymbal crashes] Alright, scrambled eggs round two. This time we're gonna beat them first and we're gonna cook which is my favorite way to make eggs. You're continuing to stir so you don't have any We want the texture to or cottage cheese. [dings] And there you scrambled eggs. You notice that the texture is like curdy. The French would use the bavoose, which actually means dog snot. Delicious, right? There are a lot of people who would think that eggs like this are To me, this is perfect. [cymbal crashes] Scrambled eggs round three, but hot and fast this time. We're gonna beat the eggs together, make sure they're fully incorporated. And you're gonna have to as soon as they hit the pan. They're gonna cook in less than a minute. Unlike last time where you had this time we're going for [dings] These are our These are not overcooked, but you do definitely of the texture of the pan. It's not quite something you're really wanna Put that on some toast. Boiled eggs. So we're gonna set four separate timers. Five minutes, six-and-a-half and ten minutes. The eggs are all gonna go at the same time into already boiling water. We're gonna pull the eggs out get them into ice baths, which from the actual egg itself. You can't eat a boiled egg It's interesting to know to peel an egg that is older rather than a super farm fresh egg. And voila, a boiled egg. [dings] Okay, so looking we're really able to see the way that time affects the white and the yolk. Let's start here with our five-minute egg. You can see it has an almost runny white and a completely liquid yolk. Great for dipping toast into. This is our six-and-a-half minute egg. I feel like this has the most appealing sort of contrast between and a fully cooked white. Next up, our eight-minute egg. There's no running whatsoever. The yolk is still very orange That's really nice. And last but not least, Firm whites and a yellow of that orange jamminess. This is like the kind of in the fridge to pull out [cymbal crashes] Steamed egg. So we've boiled eggs, but This is effectively the same thing. Cool thing about this is for a whole pot of water to boil and it doesn't matter how they're all gonna have the same amount of steam circulating around [dings] And here we have our steamed egg. So what we have right here eight-minute egg. The white is very tender, we've got this nice jammy-looking yolk. Personally, this is one for hard boiling eggs. [cymbal crashes] Instant Pot egg. Welcome to hell, kids. This is an Instant Pot, it's a slow cooker, it that you can probably do have in your kitchen. We're gonna set this We're gonna get that egg in there and when it's done, we're gonna vent it, which releases the pressure. And there ya go. [dings] Alright, so here we To me, that's an overcooked boiled egg. This actually took longer So yeah, steaming, boiling, [cymbal crashes] Sous-vide egg. Normally something is sealed and then put into a water bath that's at a consistent temperature for a specific amount of time. In this case, no bag. The egg is it's own bag. So we're just gonna let move the water around at that for around 45 minutes. And we're good to go. [dings] So this is our sous-vide egg. The yolk's wiggly, the white's Mmm, that's delicious. The sensation in your mouth But if runny eggs are not your [cymbal crashes] Pickled egg. So now we're gonna have some fun with our eight-minute in a beet-infused vinegar mixture. So we've got some distilled white vinegar, a cup of water, some salt, sugar, and then we're gonna throw in some beets. And once that comes to a boil, is ready, put a lid on it, and boom. Now we're just gonna wait. [dings] And here we have our pickled eggs. These have been sitting for 24 hours. It's tasty, you definitely of the beet, definitely get the sugar. This would make a really nice [cymbal crashes] Tea egg. We're gonna take cinnamon, cloves, fennel seed, and of course, tea. We've got our soft boiled eggs. We're gonna crack them all over Then we're gonna submerge and let them cook for about 30 minutes. We're gonna add some ice, then we're gonna cover to let them pick up even more color over the course of the next day. [dings] Look at that It's got this stained It's delicious. You really get those spices. This is a really fun way to eat an egg. [cymbal crashes] Poached egg, We don't actually want it's just at the barest simmer. And then we're gonna use our and then we're gonna which is gonna to kind of blast See now it's starting to form kind of a nice, little package. I'm actually pretty impressed with myself. This is hard to do. [dings] So here you can tell that the white is totally cooked. And when you poke it, is still nice and fluid. Almost like a yolk water balloon. This is platonic ideal of the poached egg. This is awesome. [cymbal crashes] Egg Basically, the idea is you and then you're gonna create a little well in the middle of it, pop and let the heat of the In a dream world, the white is all cooked and the yolk is still a little bit runny. [dings] See, I'm kinda concerned of the egg got the The tomato sauce is kind of so it's not conducting as a pan full of water is going to. But it does add a lot of I don't know, I could go [cymbal crashes] We're gonna use this little egg holder to make scrambled eggs. Add a little bit of milk to help it out, and then put that in the [dings] Mmm, breakfast. I gotta be real, this looks pretty gross. I don't know why you would do this, don't. [cymbal crashes] Microwaved poached egg. Microwave round two, This time, we're gonna try 27 seconds. [dings] That is an egg This is not good. This looks really, really gross. The microwave might save some time but it also makes bad eggs. Pass. [cymbal crashes] George Foreman egg. Alright, this is a George Foreman grill. You know it, you love it. We're gonna open this up, non-stick spray, crack an egg on there, And that, my friends, is an egg cooked on a George Foreman grill. [dings] I mean, this is a depressing way to cook an egg, ya know? It's fully cooked, the yolk I mean, if you had to, you I just, I'm really sorry. [cymbal crashes] Waffle iron egg. I mean, we've used every other so we may as well try a waffle iron. I'm just going to lube it up a little bit, crack an egg right in Now there's a lot of steam Oh my God, that is our [dings] This looks like like a face hugger or something. You can definitely see that the yolk is pretty unpleasant and overcooked. I just, yeah, this is not a Waffled egg? Not so much. [cymbal crashes] Blowtorched egg. This is an egg, this is a blowtorch. We're gonna crack this egg and then we're gonna cook We've got a little diffuser on here to kind of help disperse the And we're just gonna blast until it's done, I guess? [dings] Oof, this, ahh, I think we can say this is not an effective [cymbal crashes] Diner-style omelet. Alright, so we've got We're gonna put a little until it's almost browning. We really wanna beat these eggs together until we don't see any We're gonna pour the eggs it's starting to cook immediately. So I'm just gonna kinda with my spatula, then fold and that [dings] is So a diner-style omelet is for all of the sorts of fillings It's not normally about This would be delicious with some ham and peppers and cheese. [cymbal crashes] French omelet. This time we're using low heat and this is gonna come We're gonna beat our eggs, in the pan, we're gonna pour our eggs in, and then we're gonna We want the kind of curdy sort of texture. As soon as we start to we're gonna start rolling. And then we're gonna flip it out. And voila, [dings] that This is a much more refined, This is all about the egg. You don't really need to add Very creamy, very tender. This is a beautiful way to cook an egg. [cymbal crashes] Souffled omelet. This is a modern novelty omelet. So in this case, we're and the yolks, we're gonna beat the whites until they're fluffy like and then we're gonna fold the transfer that to a hot pan with butter, put a plate over top to make And then we're gonna fold it, [dings] and that is a souffled omelet. This is huge. And that's 'cause of all of the air that we beat into the eggs Has a light, cakey, Definitely not something but definitely interesting. [cymbal crashes] Cloud egg. The cloud egg was kind of on Instagram for a little while. We're gonna separate like we did for the souffled omelet. We're gonna dollop that and this is gonna go into the oven at 350 degrees for about 30 minutes. Now we're gonna pull it out back into that little pocket that we made, and bake it until we have the consistency of a sunny side up egg. [dings] And that, folks, is a cloud egg. This is kind of a deconstructed egg. It's a little bit high concept. This is one is interesting tasting. It's really more for the gram [cymbal crashes] Chinese-style So here we have a couple of eggs. We're gonna mix those with some chicken stock. We're gonna transfer the eggs to a bowl, we're gonna put the whole cover it with a plate, and And we're gonna let the the entire thing until [dings] Okay, so this is really cool. As you can see, it's pretty firm. It almost has the Very silky, this is a win. This would be awesome if of sesame oil on top, absolutely delicious. [cymbal crashes] Coddled egg. So what we have here is an egg coddler. It's kind of a mini pot that along with a little bit of cream. And then we're gonna close in barely simmering water. And there we have our [dings] That is a coddled egg. Alright, so we're gonna take the lid off. Ooh, that smells really good. Basically the cream helped to create a gentle cooking The lid helped to trap some steam, so it cooked all the way around. What I really want is a to dunk in there. It's very tasty. [cymbal crashes] Shirred egg. So now we're gonna make a shirred egg, which is similar to a it's gonna be open, in a We're gonna pop that in a 375 degree oven between 12 and 15 minutes. [dings] I can tell that we But you still have a little It's kind of cute. Might be more delicious if you made it like a little egg pot for brunch. Still has good flavor. This is a nice, little [cymbal crashes] Air-fried egg. Alright, we couldn't not use an air fryer. An air fryer is basically So we've got a ramekin all buttered up. We're gonna crack our egg little bit of cream, open our air fryer and put this guy right We're gonna set it to 300 and see [dings] what comes So this actually has a similar-ish texture to the shirred egg, except it's definitely a lot more rubbery. It's actually fairly tasty. It took 12 minutes. You could easily fry an on the stove top and not have to deal with this ridiculous contraption. [cymbal crashes] Deep-fried egg. I'm gonna crack an egg into to get it in there from as far 'Cause I'm worried this is Wow, it looks like a weird jellyfish. [dings] That my friends, This is definitely a But honestly, that's surprisingly good. This might be America's best new egg. [cymbal crashes] Dehydrated egg. First things first, we're gonna blend these then we're gonna pour them with a lip, close the door, for about six hours. [dings] Oh God, it I've read that some people dehydrate eggs and then take them camping. But unless you're hiking I don't think this is a [cymbal crashes] Frittata. So now we're gonna make a frittata, which is basically just We're gonna crack some add salt, two ounces of So we're gonna start on the just until the edges start to set, and then finish in a 350 degree until it's golden brown [dings] This is basically just baked egg. The egg is fairly tender. It really wants some cheese Otherwise, it's really not [cymbal crashes] Frozen egg? We've got an egg. We've got a skewer. We're gonna put the skewer into the egg and then freeze it to make Okay, yeah, that is a frozen egg. I think we're gonna have to to peel it. Ohh, oh no. [dings] It is an egg lollipop. And it is starting to thaw a little bit, which is very, very gross, ugh. Do I really have to? Oh no, ugh, that is so unpleasant. Just don't. [cymbal crashes] Dishwasher-cooked egg. Dishwashers get hot, so maybe that's a way to cook eggs. We're gonna close it, set this dishwasher for the tough setting and [dings] Okay, this is very, very strange. It looks kind of like the that we did earlier, than the white did. I don't understand the science behind that but something weird But it definitely works and Maybe the next time you're throw a couple of eggs in [cymbal crashes] Rice cooker egg. Alright, let's say you made But you wanna that into something like a complete meal. Maybe you just wanna open it of that rice, cook it right there. That doesn't sounds like a bad idea. We're gonna check this after five minutes. [dings] Alright, so this looks like a pretty perfectly cooked egg. The white is just barely Oh, that's so delicious. It's actually kind of and it has a beautiful, This is really cool and really If you got a rice cooker, to make it happen. [cymbal crashes] Egg cooker-cooked egg. This is an egg cooker. You load it up with you turn it on, and it steams [dings] Here we have an egg that we cooked in the egg cooker. This looks pretty much cooked-in-shell eggs we made. The question is do you on your counter that only has one purpose? It's not a bad way to cook an egg, there's just no reason [cymbal crashes] Rollie-cooked egg. More things you can buy on Amazon. I don't know, apparently and then they just come Did you hear that? It just made the weirdest noise. Oh no, no, no, no, no, [dings] It looks like it's in a condom. This is the most disgusting I am sure of it. Oh God, it has a horrible flavor. It tastes like bad seafood. [laughs] I don't know This is a horrible. [cymbal crashes] Oven cooked eggs. Alright, so people have a whole lot of different hack techniques of different eggs in the oven. We're gonna try three right now. So on your right, we're just gonna try to make a hard boiled egg. These next two, we're gonna butter them. In this middle one, we're of water in, crack the egg in there, and try to make a poached egg. On the left, we're gonna add a little bit of salt, and then beat that up to Then we're gonna take slide it into a 350 degree [dings] After 12 minutes, this looks more like a And this next one, that didn't like a poached egg. And then here we have our scrambled egg, which is really just kind of like a mini frittata sort of guy, I mean, these oven hacked methods are not really more [cymbal crashes] Egg cooked in broth. So we're gonna season this chicken broth that we have here, beat two eggs up really well, and then we're gonna into the hot broth, so that it produces these kind of ribbons. [dings] And this is our The strands are a little bit broken up, but you still have these very floating in a lot of delicious broth. The egg adds a nice texture and and the egg itself is really This is really fun. Ah, the great outdoors. Except for the fact that it's 27 degrees, but we're not gonna let [cymbal crashes] Grilled egg. Alright, we're gonna grill an We're gonna turn the flames on high. We're gonna cook this for I mean, [dings] good You know, it's actually not it was going to. That's definitely a little bit uneven. A little bit of salt. You know, it's not that bad. You could cook an egg this way, but you'd probably wanna rotate it just so it cooks a little bit more evenly. [cymbal crashes] Smoked egg. Okay, the idea here is over direct heat, we're and the indirect heat cook the egg over a longer period of The coals are all off to one side and the smoke should circulate around slowly cooking the egg. [dings] This egg after an hour is definitely a little bit overcooked. Mmm, that's pretty, you of the smoked flavor. The texture is pretty bad. I would be worried that if we wouldn't get that smoked flavor, so there's a little bit [cymbal crashes] Alright, we We're gonna knock that down for our cast iron pan. We're gonna give it a drizzle of olive oil and crack our egg in there. I'm actually just a little is never gonna cook just So I'm just gonna call an audible and give this a flip real of the yolk along a little bit. [dings] Okay, you can where it was in direct really took on a lot of color. Mmm, but that's actually delicious. And the whole thing has a It's very appealing. If you're trying to cook an a cast iron is definitely [cymbal crashes] Foil pack egg. So we've got our little foil pack here. We're gonna spray it This feels very dangerous. We're gonna crack an fold it up, and put it and see what happens. I mean, it's really puffed We're just, let's just call this. [dings] Okay, so here we For whatever reason, it smells terrible. I don't know if the aluminum burned or there was some kind or something like that, it is haunted, I am not eating it. [cymbal crashes] Hot coal-cooked egg? Alright, just out of curiosity, if I bury an egg directly in the coals. And after a few minutes, [loud pop] Oh God, oh. [dings] Okay. That was a disaster. Here we have an exploded egg. This was not a good idea. I did this so you didn't have to. Just don't do this unless it's a prank. [cymbal crashes] Sauna-cooked egg. We've got an egg and we've And I'm just gonna hop in here with my egg and hopefully it's just [woman laughing] [dings] And here have If that was a real sauna then we probably, over the would have cooked an egg. So let's see how far we got. That's a raw egg. Sauna egg, fail. [cymbal crashes] Engine cooked egg? I've been revving the engine to heat things up. We're gonna situate this foil and close the hood. Alright, let's see what we've got. Okay, this feels disconcertingly not warm. [dings] Here's our car engine egg. It seems as though it was It definitely looks weirder than it was. Yeah, I can't recommend this. [cymbal crashes] Solar oven egg. The whole idea behind this device is it's somehow going to and trap it in this that will cook an egg like an oven. Okay, it's been three hours, so we're gonna see what we got. [dings] Yeah, this also is There is almost a little that started to cook. I think maybe if we left it out there for another four hours then maybe something would have happened. But it is just not happening today. Solar fail. Alright, a few takeaways. There are a lot of ways to cook eggs. And the smallest changes are gonna have a really profound effect on the texture of an egg, The other thing that we've of classic kind of fool-proof ways for making a delicious that any of the novel methods that we used for cooking them were really And that's it. That's almost every to cook an egg. If you've got other ways feel free to leave them in the comments. Meanwhile, I'm gonna go