You want the short answer? Mario is voiced by this guy, Kevin Afghani. You want the full story... Well, let's talk all about Mario's voice. Where it originally came from, how Charles voice actor of all time, and... how he came This video is truly the culmination of the So after taking one last deep breath, let's sound like he used to? The arcade game Donkey Kong was released in a huge hit in the United States. And while kids, teens and parents alike were in Japan, Nintendo's engineers were working which would come to be known as the NES. In America, Nintendo decided to use their the groundwork for them to eventually launch So, they began licensing the Donkey Kong brand - cereal brands, TV cartoon shows, music albums, And pretty much every one of these projects meant that each one cast somebody else to Probably the most beloved "Mario" of this Bros Super Show, portrayed by pro wrestler As an Italian-born immigrant to America, he platform jumper. "Hey, it's Toad and the Mushroom People! Koopa let them go! Relax Luigi, I got a brainstorm!" But Captain Lou wasn't the only guy voicing got actors like Peter Cullen, Walker Boone, In America, Nintendo really took an "anyone They just didn't care about consistency. In Japan, though, it was a slightly different Let me introduce you to Toru Furuya. If you've watched a lot of Japanese anime, or other. With roles like Tuxedo Mask, Sabo, Amuro, most famous voice actors for decades and decades. And so in 1986 when Nintendo approved an official Bros, known as "Peach-hime Kyushutsu Dai ...Well, it only made sense to cast Toru Furuya, actor at the time, to play the movie's main And, Toru Furuya ended up taking a somewhat with the final result sounding like this. So, that was a clip from the film. But after the film, Nintendo of Japan decided to Mario's Japanese voice. And so, over the next five years, Toru Furuya in a variety of projects, like anime retellings warning kids about the dangers of fire and In fact, Tooru Furuya continued voicing Mario But at the same time, in America, a new voice It's time to talk about the voice we all So, if we're talking about Mario's voice, up - and that is Charles Martinet. The year was 1990 and Charles Martinet was on any job he could find. And one afternoon, he got wind of an audition He rushed off to the studio where this audition Martinet begged the staff to let him try his The guy running the audition was just on his you're an Italian plumber, you're gonna your best." Martinet entered the booth, ready to put on - "Hey, I'm walking here!" But before he spoke, he stopped. This gruff voice might be a bit scary for said he'd be talking to all kinds of people. So, Martinet decided to put on a much higher &quot;It's-a me, Mario!&quot; You see, a few years back Martinet had played And Gremio is this old friendly Italian man friendly Italian man instead. And so, Charles Martinet opened his mouth Famously, Charles Martinet kept talking and ran out of tape! He was told, go home, please leave! Martinet thought this meant he didn't get he'd been successful - he got the role! In fact, his was the only tape the interviewer So, you might be wondering what this audition Mario 64? Mario Kart? No, this wasn't for any of the games. It was for real life. Basically, at the time Nintendo had this advanced would be strapped up in a big metal helmet, to this 3D Mario head. Anyone walking past the booth at conventions Charles Martinet would start talking to them, Take a listen! Now, Martinet performed this real-time Mario even appeared in an old PC game called "Mario &quot;Hello! It's-a me, Mario!&quot; But then, in 1996, Charles Martinet's life to a game called Super Mario 64. So, in 1996 Nintendo released their first they wanted to have their characters speak And they decided that rather than embark on they already had the perfect person for the the man who had been doing those 3D Mario country for the past few years. And so, Martinet was brought into a recording phrases, shouts, and yelps to be included And when Super Mario 64 was released in 1996, never heard him before. &quot;Let's-a go! Mamma mia! Hello! Press start to play! Hah hah! Here we go!&quot; And in the 2 decades that followed, Martinet game Nintendo released. But then, the winds of change began blowing So, by 2021, it was old news that Nintendo to bring an animated Mario movie to life. By this point, the movie had been in the works almost nothing about what it was gonna be However, during a Nintendo Direct in September viewing were given a bit of a surprise... "Today, I wanted to also reveal our key his friends in the movie. First, of course, is Mario, who will be played Chris Pratt?! Movie star Chris Pratt, who had about as much of English, would be playing the main character. Whaaat?! So, yes, it's safe to say that when this shocked, gooped and gagged. So, why did Illumination and Nintendo cast Well, there's a few reasons. The first is obvious - he's a big name, movies have switched from casting actual voice And this movie is no different, with the cast actor you could think of. But still, why Chris Pratt as Mario? Well, according to co-director Aaron Horvath, He's really good at playing a blue-collar For the way that Mario is characterised in And so, Chris Pratt was hired, and came to But this voice took some figuring out. Pratt apparently made the mistake that Charles "I walked in and they were like, 'That's You're doing a Tony Soprano thing," &quot;Whatever happened to... Gary Cooper? The strong silent type.&quot; Eventually, Pratt settled on a friendlier his own normal regular speaking voice. And when recording was mostly done, Illumination because we felt he could give a great performance And now that we've done about 15 recording done, I sit here and say that I love his performance So what was this performance like? How did it sound? Well, take a listen. &quot;Wow! You were great! I am so glad we spent our life savings on What about the accents? Is it too much? Okay, I'm gonna trust you...&quot; &quot;Save Brooklyn? Luigi, this is our chance! Destiny is calling!&quot; Now, I think that most viewer's reactions it was fine." It wasn't awful, but Charles Martinet likely Still, people assumed this movie featuring After all, Charles Martinet WAS in the film - &quot;wahoo!&quot; - including one as Mario's father - &quot;I think But when Charles Martinet spoke this line.., &quot;These are my boys!&quot; ...nobody except him and Nintendo knew that record for a Mario project. And all of that brings us to the present day. Or at least, to a few months ago, when Nintendo Bros Wonder. And when internet investigators listened closely thought it sounded a little different. Was this someone other than Charles Martinet? Then all of a sudden in August, Nintendo released to cut a long story short, Charles Martinet three decades after his original audition. The company stated that Martinet would be where he would travel the world and meet and be recording new voices for the games. Now, all of this came as a massive shock. For millions of people, Charles Martinet's I mean, I was born more than a decade after so for me personally, it's hard to imagine Not only that, but 2 years ago in an interview, Mario until I drop dead''. So, what changed? Well, we can only theorise. However, Martinet is 67 years old, and miraculously, it did 30 years ago. That's very impressive, but every voice So, perhaps Charles Martinet and Nintendo new, young voice actor who could follow in Because there is a second part to that quote ''I want to voice Mario until I drop dead. If someday I think I am no longer capable into finding someone else." So, who was this someone else? Well, leading up to the release of Super Mario telling people to wait 'til the game comes Mysterious... However, only a week before the game's release, including a list of the voice actors from The only problem? The leaked information didn't include which Some were easy to narrow down. Kenny James for instance is the voice of Bowser, But most of the other names are harder to And so, the internet began a kind of detective plays Mario. Eventually, the consensus formed was that Wingert is a prolific voice actor who's 10 years. If Nintendo was gonna recast Mario, surely Wingert to take on the role. Except, only hours after the internet had the new voice of Mario, Wingert's own agent voicing Mario.&quot; Which meant that Mario's voice actor had But who? Well, before the internet began round 2 of to reveal the man behind Mario and Luigi's And that man is: Kevin Afghani. Now, Afghani is a relatively new voice actor. He's only 26 years old, and he just broke last year, when he appeared as a minor event &quot;Do you have any other questions for me, fair Concerning, perhaps, my relationship status, So, why did Nintendo pick this guy? Well, they have actually worked with him before this Nintendo Switch commercial. &quot;Nintendo Switch Online! Compete with the best players the world over! Nintendo Switch - more games, more features, But what Afghani really offered was enthusiasm His voice is one you almost certainly won't or TV shows. Which makes him perfect to take over voicing Oh, and for enthusiasm, let me read you this. "I decided to become a voice actor for a and video games. They are some of the most genuinely exciting I want to give a piece of myself to the things So, how does Afghani's Mario voice sound? Well, let's take a listen! I think it's really great! For one, most people couldn't tell that first heard this new Mario voice, which is But as Afghani continues voicing video game's to seeing him bring in some of his own sensibilities, Because after all, while Shigeru Miyamoto developed by a huge team of people, many of And now, with Mario's voice, the torch has Charles Martinet created an iconic voice for to take it somewhere new. Hey thanks so much for watching! Um, you might've heard some of the stuff voice acting guy on YouTube, I couldn't So I really hope you enjoyed this special you next time - byeee!