A criminal who crosses the line could find at any point through history - although "crossing to annoying the King. However, in many places, the death penalty offer. Here are fifteen of the evil punishments worse #15. Flaying Let's turn the clock back to ancient Assyria, The ruler, Ashurnasirpal II, was known for leaders, but one method created a special Using a special set of knives, the torturers skin - and this was something they practiced They not only knew how to remove the skin for as long as possible. To ensure this, they would start the cutting areas without proximity to vital organs, making in agonizing pain for longer without bleeding This was a highly effective form of torture, were likely to get it quickly. A victim who gave their captives what they of a flaying - but the risk of infection would But for most, it was a prolonged and terrible How long could someone survive a flaying? The combination of blood loss, infections, from exposure to the elements without the survive a few days at most after being flayed. The skilled Assyrian torturers knew how to in one piece for it to be displayed as a horrible They were clearly proud of their skill - the pieces from the era. And while the Assyrians eventually passed but didn't die out - it was a common method for more than a thousand years. And while using it on a human today would for hunters who want to keep an animal's But that's nothing compared to what the #14. The Boats Flaying usually kills people after a short keep the pain going for a lot longer. When a soldier named Mithridates murdered to suffer. Sure, the King's brother had been attempting He ordered the soldier to be taken to the This wasn't exile - it was something much The condemned would be taken to a pair of Holes would be cut in the boat for the victim's inside. But then the real torture begins, and it starts The condemned man is force-fed a mixture of mixture until he's near the point of nausea, drying all over his face and body. And from there, nature takes its course. The sweet mixture starts attracting insects, it off him - creating a constant feeling of Joining the flies will be bees and wasps, And inside the boat, the man's bloated body worms and other vermin. Inside the darkened boat, they'll start in - leading him to die a slow, painful death This technique seems to have been only used historian Plutarch so much that he made a the sadist king who invented it. Was it just one man's mad creation - or in Persia? The answer may be lost to history. It wasn't the only time animals were used #13. Poena Cullei Roman law was one of the most advanced systems - and that also meant the judges could get When a judge had a suspect in front of him he decided he deserved more than just a simple supporting characters in the mix. First, the convict would be severely whipped, At which point, he would be sewn up into a But he wouldn't be the only one in the sack animals, none of them friendly. At which point, the whole collection would idea that the animals would savagely attack all sank down to their watery deaths. No word on if the animals were convicted of But what animals were chosen for this terrible This varies, but the one thing that seems causing pain. One common choice was a rooster, whose beak of domage quickly. Also common was a venomous snake, who is more Not even man's best friend was safe - a The fourth varies, but several reports point like an odd choice, unless you've been attacked claw. One thing's for sure - this wasn't a role While this was mostly a Roman invention, it's extent in Medieval Germany. There, only a cat and dog were used, and they Unlike the other forms of execution, this of the victim. It was simply about making those last few But no Roman execution method was more infamous #12. Crucifixion It's one of the most famous images in religious nailed to the cross for angering the Roman But while it's most associated with religious method - so common that religious texts refer hang alongside Jesus. And whether you were a rebel Rabbi or a common It served not just as a slow death, but as in a public square, and the condemned were as they died a slow death. But unlike many of the other methods in this - it just set them up to die from other factors And the torture started early. The ritual would start with the condemned on their back, often while being whipped. After the cross was placed, they would be from it. Sometimes the feet would be nailed as well, With their arms splayed out to the side, they to days. Because their whole body weight was held by be trouble breathing due to the pressure on However, elements like heart failure, dehydration, the crucifixion and whippings could also spell However long they lasted, it would be an agonizing But because this execution method isn't association, today a small group of zealots as a penance ritual. At least it's ancient history as a punishment, Not quite - it was used in places like Japan isolated reports of it being used to torture It wasn't the only method that stood the #11. Immurement Sometimes, the most horrible thing to do to One of the most ancient methods of torture somewhere and then just...walk away. Out of sight, out of mind for those dealing But for the condemned, they're left alone keep them company as they slowly die a painful - depending on how much air there is in the If the condemned is buried alive in a coffin declared dead - they'll likely be dead within But if they're kept in a larger space, it's affair. While this was used commonly as a method of sacrifices. But one case was more famous than any other. The Vestal Virgins of Rome took a sacred oath Vesta. They had two main duties - to maintain the and celibacy. If they broke the latter, the punishment was their honors and ritually scourged. Their fellow Virgins would dress them like carry them to a small underground vault. There, they would be left in what looked like lamp, and even some food - and the area where dirt and buried. This horrible ritual was conducted around Vestal Virgins existed. This continued as a form of punishment for depended on the circumstances. The murderous Hungarian Countess Elizabeth - but she was supplied with food and lived Now, let's get into the Middle Ages - which #10. The Breaking Wheel Europe loved its public executions - with thieves facing their turn at some point. But for those deemed truly loathsome, a worse No one knows when the breaking wheel was created, can be found in literature from the sixth The condemned would be taken to a public stage giant spoked wheel would be rolled in. The goal of this first stage of the execution the legs of the convict by dropping the wheel Sometimes, this would be followed up on by their neck, but this wasn't common. Because the public demanded more blood than In most cases, the poor convict was lifted to the wheel in agonizing pain. Their broken limbs often let the authorities The breaking wheel was then raised on a pole, or lit on fire. The body was often left up for display on this resemble crucifixion in many ways. However, there was a way out. If the convict fell off the wheel while still deemed to be spared by God. Their injuries were treated, they were typically rare position of being one of the only people human history. The worst punishments often lasted a long one. #9. Impalement How disturbing does a punishment have to be I like that, I'm going to make it my signature"? Despite the association with the infamous the punishment of impalement - it had been punish particularly hated criminals. It's a simple method, but almost unspeakably and inserted up the back end of the unfortunate through the mouth, almost always causing fatal They're were supposed to serve as a message, the ground with the victim still attached In the most brutal cases, fields of these anyone thinking of invading the territory. At least it would be a swift death...right? Maybe, maybe not. While poorly trained users would no doubt person bleeding out in agonizing pain over how to thread the stake effectively and follow This caused minimal damage and allowed the reportedly being eight days. Wait, did you say more modern users? Yes, this horrible tactic did not die with It was used extensively by the Ottoman empire, that began in 1915. There are also reports that it was used by the colonial era. Vlad, no doubt, would be proud. This next technique might be the most infamous #8. The Rack Most of the punishments on this list are execution prolonging the death. But punishment isn't the only goal of torture and the old guard was willing to get a lot book. Enter the rack, a simple device that looks But this device wasn't used to clean clothes The wooden frame features a roller at both top end while their legs are attached to the As the interrogation advances, the torturer arms and legs until they can give no more. And it only gets worse from there. Unlike the other methods, the rack doesn't Rather, it deals out slow-level pain that and bones of the arms and legs are stretched This can quickly break a person down as their are ruined. Even if one was able to escape the rack, it's work. This also kept the person immobile for future The rack was so feared that sadistic interrogators force another to watch to try to break both The use of this device mostly died out in century Russia. But it wasn't the most common method of #7. Auto-da-fe The Spanish Inquisition was one of the most in the world, as the particularly brutal authorities of laws. Opposing religion were largely banned, converts they weren't keeping their old faiths, and extreme torture under the authority of the And for those who confessed, an even worse They would be subjected to a ritual of public the public and abused, wearing garments bearing Then, the authorities would proclaim their For some, it would be innocence and they would For most, it would be guilty - and horrors The punishment would typically begin with only end one way. The convicted would be tied to a stake, kindling be lit afire and burned to death while still It was a horrifying way to die, but the only the intense smoke before they burned to death. This execution technique is typically associated by burning over the centuries - from the 15th or critics of the dogma and tactics of the And it stayed in Europe - despite persistent were ever burned in Salem. Not all these punishments are famous - but #6. Schwedentrunk Ah, the Swedish drink. Sounds delicious, maybe like a Lingonberry But for those who were being invaded by Swedish 1600s, it was no laughing matter. This wasn't so much a traditional punishment ruthless soldiers - many of whom were out the locals by any means necessary. It's a simple technique - force your captives they give you what they want. If you've ever tried to drink a whole gallon can get very unpleasant, very quickly - because But this wasn't just drinking water. The Swedish troops would tie the person up person's mouth. And the actual substance would be an unpleasant Sometimes it would be water. Sometimes it would be boiling water, causing Sometimes it would just be disgusting, like In addition to the possible poisoning or infection, stretch or burst from the massive amount of For the soldiers who wanted to add a little victim's swollen stomach or even stab them It's no wonder that most of the victims give the soldiers what they wanted - and pray Now, let's head across the pond for something #5. Tarring and Feathering It almost sounds like a cartoon gag - the on them. Now they're all sticky! And here come the feathers! They look like a giant chicken! But this isn't slapstick comedy - it's in 18th century America. The tradition may have started much earlier I in 1189, but it didn't catch on until in North America. Angry rebels in the years before the Revolution officials or suspected informers, coating feathers to publicly humiliate them. It was considered a grave insult - and good But the truth was actually much worse. How do you get tar nice and sticky? You heat it up. While this wasn't often the case, often hot - and when it dried and came off, it would While there is no report of anyone dying from were left in agonizing pain and had permanent The punishment became rarer after the Revolution, The Mormon founder Joseph Smith was tarred and a German-American farmer named John Meints His crime? Not supporting War Bonds sales during World during wartime. This next one might be a bit of a catch-22. #4. Trial By Ordeal You've been accused of a horrible crime, The good news is, you can get out of it. You just have to do...what? Trial by Ordeal goes back to antiquity, when This one was actually rather fair - you just come out alive, you're free. Want to prove you're innocent of murder? Just commit this other murder! This would fall out of favor eventually, but became common in the West. But in other cases, the odds were stacked These trials would often resemble torture, by fire. In this one, the accused would have to walk a red-hot iron. Sometimes the person simply had to accomplish be checked for signs of injury - and only to escape getting burned. The odds aren't looking great there. But one twist on the trial by ordeal was particularly When witches were accused and placed on trial, But how do you prove something that probably Those who trialled the apparent witches had The accused would be tied up and submerged The idea was that the witch would be able she managed to escape, she was clearly a witch So how someone prove their innocence? Simple - die! If the accused witch drowned, they were clearly to the dogma. Even when the accused wins, they lose. This next punishment has some accessories. #3. Rat Torture How do you turn rats into man-eaters? The first reports come from Roman Catholic during the Elizabethan era. They claimed that as the tide rose and the the prisoner's cell and viciously attack Some doubt this happened, since rats typically But the reports might have encouraged some the Dutch Revolt, someone did manage to weaponize A pottery bowl filled with rats would be placed coals would be placed on top of it. As the bowl heated up, the panicked rats would to try to find a refuge from the heat. Someone call PETA. It's grotesque - and it worked. Rat torture isn't a particularly common on living animals doing what you need them But the fear that rats create made it an appealing it made an appearance in military dictatorships Argentina in particular was infamous for using and letting the creature dig its way out. It's mostly a horrifying fact of the past victim with rats to get him to grant his wife This next torture is especially horrible, #2. Yubitsume Japan's criminal scene is powerful and secretive, by their boss often face severe punishment. But unlike the American gangsters who might of the Yakuza often face another penance - less In order to atone for their offenses, they a piece of their little finger. This is not only extremely painful, but is finger is key to maintaining the grip on the But that hasn't stopped it from being used The penitent Yakuza member begins by laying They then use a particularly sharp knife called just above the top knuckle. They then wrap up the fingertip in a package of the crime syndicate. Why would they want it? Tradition, because not only was this ritual it was used as a form of payment by gamblers The good news is, if the agent screws up again, The bad news is, they're going to run out Finally, sometimes there's nothing more #1. White Torture Solitary confinement is torture in itself, isolating them from any human contact. But usually, they at least have a sense of White torture strips them of even that - by The prisoner is deprived of color, giving are entirely white. Not only that, their clothing is also white, rice or porridge - is white as well. Taking this to the extreme, the cell is equipped from falling in the cell, and the soundproof mind. And that mind slowly starts going insane. An extreme form of sensory deprivation, this political dissidents - who could be held for It also showed up in Venezuela, and international States of using it on accused terrorists in to block out the senses. But in all these cases, the facilities are go on is the reports of the victims. And those are harrowing, with many claiming to sleep even after they were freed, and haunted What about the children? Watch "Worst Punishments of Children Through If you want to know more about these horrible in History" playlist to see these punishments