People on the block because we were selling First time I sold coke, And then we took it where we stopped dealing There was nobody doing it We started handing out Like wildfire. [ Cellphones ringing ] We couldn't keep up I'm like, &quot;Yo, I need your help. and that's where I fucked up. I was being tapped by the Feds. [ Cellphones ringing ] And I'm like, These motherfuckers, man.&quot; My name is Coss Marte, I grew up in the Lower East Side It was a very drug-infested It was a place where, I took as a kid, It's not the galleries It was, like, Iraq A war zone. My mom came to New York Three months later, You know, first American-born so it was just my mom and I My dad and my sisters came when they got, like, their visas My brother was born but it was a struggle. I really understood poverty The fact that I was I don't know -- even, like, watching, It's, like, you know, &quot;Full House,&quot; you know -- you know, and they have a big house, and I'm, like, with all my siblings you know, four of us in one bed. Growing up, we were close-knit, doing our own things, living in a two-bedroom you're pretty close-knit, even if you don't want to. And you feel like life is unfair and I wanted more. I wanted to be rich. So, school was pretty easy I did pretty well. I remember in third grade, to skip me a grade because I, literally, had nothing but 100s. It was just too easy for me. My mom was actually a teacher When I was a kid, she taught me, and all the math stuff that really helped me My dad had the bodega downstairs and, you know, I remember opening up the bodega, you know. I had to sweep, mop, and then head to school, come back, work the counter, The first small crime I remember going to and they had baseball cards. You see, I was, like, and I used to steal You know, buy, like, pay 5 cents $5, $10 worth of baseball cards and try to sell them at school. One of my cousins who was, like, he was a bad motherfucker. He's locked up right now, but he was a bad influence He was the one that smoked weed At 13, I started dealing, I was the kid that was It just opened the door because and so they would be like, and I would go down the block, So that was, like, the first It was scary because it was, I brought, like, and so it was, like, you know, and it became, like, I had a beeper, like, codes and shit, backwards, like, hello, do, like, small, I'm with my little brother, I got a beep from my boy who lived in the building We met up in the park. He bought a couple nickel bags &quot;Yo, do you want to smoke?&quot; So I sat down, At that time, I used to roll up I really didn't know how I was like, &quot;Yo, I'm the best I smoked a little bit, He passed it back to me. Next thing I know, I feel, just, like, grabs my arm. Undercover cops just come Coss: I drop down to my knee, &quot;This is Detective and he cuffed me right away. I just started shouting, crying. I was wearing my D.A.R.E. shirt. And he's like, &quot;Ah!&quot; And so he was like, And, like, and was like, &quot;I'm part And so I was just telling &quot;I'm part I'm part of You know, I think the cops almost took a step back and really kind of let Coss go called our parents. It was the first time that my brother was People that I knew were up to something My mom was mad. My mom was, like, She thought marijuana My brother definitely and I think my parents, My parents weren't ignorant. My dad was more practical basically told me, like, &quot;Don't do it outside where by other people and get caught,&quot; Chris: That's when I kind of stopped hanging out just because of the reaction But obviously... as a kid, I feel like all adolescents want From nickel bags, it turned into, you know, The first time I sold coke was, I'm standing on the corner, and he's like, I was like, &quot;All right.&quot; So I went down and Stanton Street, and I bought two bags of coke and then came back and sold it, That was the first time &quot;Yo, I can make way more money when I'm, like, profiting and, like, these people You know, From dime bags of coke, and just being out there two years, There was nobody that was I was just, like, and that's how I progressed, I, basically, I would be sitting on the stoop. I'll have, like, be like, &quot;Yo,&quot; you know, and so my boy would or through one of and just throw it off And I'll tell people, like, catch the shit and then just keep it moving,&quot; so it was not, like, a hand-to-hand transaction. I mean... that we were doing stupid shit but for us, our mind-set was, are that I'm not hanging It's coming off the sky, like God sent it to you... Hallelujah ...and you have no proof. You're just handing me money, so that was my mentality I don't even remember but I knew of Joey and, like, seen him in the hood. My name is Jose Lallave, and in Spanish, People call me The Key. I first met Coss probably in the early 2000s. When I really started I was, like, 16. Joey was always doing like, setting up shop and, like, I'm hustling &quot;Yo, what the fuck is he doing?&quot; And he's, like, open up the box and just selling, to, like, Chinese people, and just, like, like, selling shit like that. You know, he had his own way I had my own way, the perfect We were ambitious We didn't realize that, that we had certain And so one day, and he's like, &quot;Yo, I need I think he bought, like, maybe, and I gave him, like, a discount so he could make money And then he came back &quot;Yo, I need more,&quot; sold whatever he needed to sell and then came back and I'm like, &quot;Yo, I'm out,&quot; and he's like, &quot;Yo, I need more. I need more. I need more. Just, like, very demanding I saw that similarity of, having that desire to be rich, &quot;Yo, I need help and, right there and then, We put our money together. I think we just bought, or something like that we just started We formed a union that night, And the energy that we just like, I've never seen and he's never seen a hustler We both had that hunger means necessary, we're going to It was this rookie cop. He was like, &quot;I'm going and I'm like, &quot;Fuck.&quot; Joey and I went into For us, it was like Dealing coke, I was just hungry. We worked our ass off. Every day, 365 days a year. We never had no time to hang out I don't even know I don't give a shit [ Chuckles ] but I remember him, going in between cars 'cause we didn't want Like, he was like, We're going to miss a sale,&quot; &quot;Yo, but I got to use and he, like, Like, yo, this motherfucker He said, &quot;Yo, Coss, and I'm, like, throwing it at him like a like, it was a fucking movie. Like, even brushing our teeth, we would, like, buy a new toothbrush, We actually took, like, caffeine pills to, because, like, was when it became, like, and people showing up There was, like, no other corner really operating I remember, I went home I was, like, up in the streets, hustling all day, all night, and I was staying up but I remember having, $50,000 worth on the street, getting it from my connect, and I get to my mom's crib. I was living on Broome but I went over there 'cause I picked up the crack in the first floor And I, like, just start just chilling, and I got, like, a big-ass of just a whole bunch of crack, and I fell asleep there. My dad woke me up, and there was crack everywhere Like, literally, it was, kitchen, to the living room, and it was just, like, a whole I felt so embarrassed. How the fuck all this shit I didn't know how the hell I must have been sleepwalking and I woke up in the couch pretty much in, like, Like, it was raining crack, Hallelujah. [ Sighs ] Yeah. Yeah, my brother used You know, he would just get up, sometimes just go to the couch, and just sit there, And my brother is so, like, he's knocked out. He's sleepwalking. Coss: My dad passed me and we just started and putting it in the ziplock. I was just really surprised I guess he understood that, you know, That would've probably had He's like, &quot;Get that shit He's, like, &quot;Whatever,&quot; Yeah, not a lot of people There was this crackhead Chula was, like... Like, I seen her, like, bring a knife to a gunfight, So I get a call from her, &quot;Yo, come to building A.&quot; It was, like, 3 blocks. &quot;Go upstairs I got like 50 bags of crack and I knock on the door, I go in there, make the sale. Next thing I know, they bring, like, that they knock down They, like, bang the door, and the other crackheads and I was scared, and Chula was by the door, and she, like, and was, like, I had like seven bags and so I took and I just threw it and then, eventually, About like 10 cops and detectives come in, the whole apartment, One of the crackheads and said, like, I thought it was one of those &quot;Yo, I'm only going in for weed. I'm good, you know, I get out to the hallway. I'm in cuffs, and there He was like, &quot;I'm going and I'm like, &quot;Fuck.&quot; I remember I had It was, like, one of those and in the seam of it, I had a little hole and I had a whole bunch throughout the whole seam And so he opens up the, like, I'm still in cuffs, and, like, where he, like, banged my head and he searched me, a little slit and just put his finger and that was it. You know, Then he saw two, three. They just kept coming out, like, &quot;Shit, this is going to be He was like, &quot;What the fuck?&quot; So, then he took, like, and ripped my whole with the cuffs on me, That was my first felony. I had to be sent It was a shock, because I didn't want especially once I got into Slowly, he almost Coss: It's not a pretty place. I remember, like, and it was just, like, just crawling just like a horror movie, and I remember, actually, somebody got stabbed on my bed Chris: My brother had before there was, Before there was Seamless, Coss: This guy, Then I'm like, &quot;Yo! The riot team came. We call them The Turtles because They look like The Turtles come in, and you because they come in They just start hitting people as soon as they come in the door and just banging anybody so you just got And so they bang up They take people to the box. The whole fucking dorm everything is just flipped, you know, and my sheets were, like, And I remember, like, &quot;Yo, it's night. Lights out. I'm like, &quot;Yo, I'm not You got fucking blood on You know, There was blood of the fucking plastic mattress, but at least I got a clean sheet So at 17, I got probation. I felt like I was not going I was going to turn a new leaf and, like, do the right thing. So, I graduated I got accepted to UAlbany. I was, like, one of to go to college, I was just going to smoke it and my roommate, he was like, So, like, I showed him and he bought, like, I had no intention but it was just... Next thing I know, up to Albany and selling it. So, like, my branding was, like, these, like, plastic After a month and half we threw a crazy party. We had like 200, 300 girls. Boom, knocked the door down. In came dogs, the whole K-9 unit. They found, like, They gave me an ultimatum. They said, you know, or I could get arrested, so I got, like, I don't know why that was not but I go back to Manhattan. I, like, went back and did it again. It was when, like, white people started moving Gentrification. Real estate started going up, so that, in turn, So, Happy Endings -- It was a massage parlor and then it became the bar and club. When Happy Endings opened up, a set of just, like, hipsters Joey: These bars and lounges offered better prospects Coss: Joey and I, literally, would just go up to people People on the block because we were selling Everybody thought We took that risk, and we became to, you know, random people, and that's where Joey: I made a proposition &quot;Let's create a service.&quot; Everybody was still doing I already knew that nobody else was really Nobody else was really to the high-end clientele. You know, from there, where we stopped dealing Joey and I went to Kinko's, and we made and, like, made it legit. It was all black, said &quot;Happy Endings&quot; and it said &quot;24/7&quot; on it, We started handing A wildfire. We used to take huge risks, The business cards and really took it Basically, our target and we branded ourselves There were so many phone calls Like, literally, that I had on that business card just blew up. My brother had before there was, like, Before there was Seamless, Then it got to the point like, every other minute. I mean, we just couldn't so we had to employ people They didn't have their license, In the beginning, it was local, so we had to meet Then it started expanding. People started calling People started calling Coss: Everybody was Everybody that was became our employees. We started wearing suits because and then I was going I spent, like, a year going and every time I would wear, like, you know, a button-up, a tie, and I was, like, selling drugs, like, on my way going to court or, like, coming out of court. That's how the business suits and just acting Dealing drugs on the corner, sitting on a milk crate, you know, wearing and going down to Wall Street It took a turn, and it felt like we were because, like, and let us go sometimes. It's, like, we were We looked like we had you know, we were running late like, doing 100 miles per hour Joey: And then the whole stapled with a bag of coke, &quot;Listen, we're punctual, We go anywhere.&quot; We were one of the first people in that time frame Chris: Seeing kind of, that was coming up to him were much more white, You could connect the pieces. We changed our language. We changed the way I was not like, &quot;Yo. It was, like, actually not ghetto language, making sure and, like, proper handshakes and, like, basically doing like, being scrappy and then turning corporate. I think when Coss really hit I think he became in his lifestyle, but I think, at that point, it didn't change and that's when you realize it was something much greater when he was 13 and 14 years old. And that's when the business I seen this white guy. He looks at me, and he's like, &quot;Coss Marte?&quot; And I'm like, &quot;What the fuck? How the fuck He's, like, pulls off his badge. [ Cellphones ringing ] that we were, like, two phones at a time, like, we couldn't keep up It became a real operation where we had It was like 12-hour shifts, and then just a whole It picked up so fast. The first few days, it was, Then towards the summertime, everything was everything over $3,000 a day. The goal was, if we made $3,000 that's $1,095,000. Coss: And then we had, like, and in Washington Heights. It was, like, business 101 &quot;All right, and this is how it needs Coss wasn't the dealer anymore. Joey wasn't the dealer anymore. They had multiple levels within and they managed it You know, you could say and Joey was more COO. With the service, and you could gauge a quota Thursdays, I make this amount. Fridays, I make this amount. Like, if it's Fashion Week, It doesn't matter. That's, like, The New Year's week is one Certain holidays -- it slows down because people fly They clean up. There's not that much action but as soon as that weekend, they're right back at it, Coss: Cash was everywhere, Like, $20,000 was, Stashing it in closets, You could stash like $30,000 I probably was pocketing, like, I was only, like, 21, and we was just Stupid mink coats and chains and watches and shoes, and we'd go, like, of Fifth Avenue and just, like, come out with like but we'd be spending, Chris: You know, Gucci clothing. He had the new Timbs, I saw the symbolic wealth and also just People in the neighborhood that my brother kind of was the guy they wanted to be Coss: Joey and I, eating fancy dinners, always get, like, at Peter Luger's Joey: Every day was We just did whatever we wanted. We didn't have no sense Coss: So I ended up getting and I wasn't ready for that. It put a lot of pressure on me and I'm, like, juggling, and then, like, trying and I started just eating We was just overindulging, Whatever I wanted, I got. We went to make a delivery in, and I think it was, so it was, like, but we were wearing, or some type of furs, and I remember Joey had, like, the mink hat with I don't know who said it first, &quot;Yo, let's take and we were like, We want to go to the We'll give you $500,&quot; &quot;Nah, like, the ticket We was like, &quot;Fuck it. and they were like, And then this guy was like, We were, like, Those horse and carriages and so many cars, and we're, like, going down, and people were just like on the horse and carriage. Somebody had said, I said, &quot;Oh, shit. He said, &quot;What car you in?&quot; I said, &quot;I'm not in a car. Believe it or not, He's like, &quot;Oh, you guys We, like, stopped with the horse and carriage, We had more little kids, apples and carrots. I don't know how, like, but we got away with it. At the height of everything, Joey got locked up. Joey was doing, like, a year, and so now I'm, like, There was this one guy. He started stealing shit. Behind my back, and made new business cards, and he was, like, and stealing our customers and directing them And then this guy named Dominic, who bought a lot of cocaine Dominic had my personal number, He's like, &quot;Yo, this guy He actually gave me Do you have a new number?&quot; And I was like, &quot;What? So I got that number. The dispatcher picks up, &quot;Yo, what the fuck And I got all the phones I switched those numbers, and I took that number not knowing that that phone was being tapped by the Feds. And that's where I fucked up. What I did, I was I'm doing all I didn't trust anybody anymore, and I was sending people I'm sending these guys. They tell me, &quot;Copy. and then the phones [ Tone ] The number you have reached and there is no new number. And so I'm like, So I'm, like, I'm like, &quot;Yo, I need your help. and people are, like, And then I had no drivers, I'm going to make and so I leave the stash house, and as I walk out I see this white guy. He looks at me and he's like, &quot;Coss Marte?&quot; And I'm like, &quot;What the fuck? How the fuck He's, like, pulls out his badge, &quot;This is drug enforcement agent and he says that, &quot;Your whole operation is over.&quot; I, like, opened it up. I stick my fingers in there, and there was, like, My mind was like, &quot;What more do I have to lose? On my way down to the precinct, like, minivan, and they drive it next to me, I'm like, &quot;These motherfuckers. These motherfuckers.&quot; As soon as I walk people are clapping and saying, like, They take me to this corridor, and as I walk down, all my drivers in those cells. They take my wallet. They, like, strip search me. I had, like, I don't know, like 100 bags of coke and they were like, You have, like, coke everywhere. Like, you have more?&quot; They give me back my wallet. This wallet, I had a little I, like, opened it up. I stick my fingers in there, and there was, like, My mind was like, &quot;What more do I have to lose? Let me just get high.&quot; I took the 10 tabs of acid. The bars were, like, waving. I felt, like, I could just, and, like, escape. And then they take me and that's when And I was fucking tripping, They told the judge Judge was like, [ Distorted ] You're on acid?&quot; [ Normal voice ] I'm like... He's like, We're going to hit him I ended up in Rikers Island, Me and my dad went where we heard the conviction, and just staring at my brother, I felt like there wasn't I felt like that wasn't It was kind of, like, a moment where I felt like he was lost. Joey: Coss got locked up. I was motivated to get in -- and I went, Sure enough, they started and it was the same officers That's how I ended up catching Coss: I got 7 years, My son was 18 months old and it really, really killed me You know, I wanted to Chris: I stepped up, to baseball games, hanging out with him, a father figure to look up to. Coss: Chris had my back. You know, we got really tight, and I owe him a lot for that. I was in I see Glenn, and I'm like, And he's like, &quot;Yo, what up, yo? I met Glenn, I think, when he was I remember him being bad. He was, like, Well, it's crazy Coss every day on the block, Next thing you know, I'm like, &quot;Holy cow!&quot; He's heavyset -- the biggest I've seen him He had, like, He was... He had, like, I'm like, &quot;Yo, what the hell Coss: I didn't think or I didn't feel like but when I went upstate, the first thing they do is, and then they send you back Maybe, like, two they sat me down &quot;Your cholesterol levels They was like, you know, living that lifestyle, of a heart attack and I was like, &quot;What?&quot; He was probably on the verge Coss: And what they recommended eat correctly and to work out. I, like, stopped drinking, eliminating carbs, eliminating, literally maybe 150, I just started doing dips off the side of my bed, In, like, 5 minutes, I was like, I went to my bed, My son was in my head I started thinking, like, &quot;Yo, That's when I hit the yard. At first, I felt embarrassed. When I get up to the like, struggling, &quot;Yo, get this fucking honeybun I just started doing laps. While I was running the yard, Fat Forrest Gump. They were, like, screaming, That honeybun motherfucker!&quot; I just went, &quot;Fuck you!&quot; And I just kept And every time, every morning I would see Coss foom, foom, foom -- Coss: And, eventually, where I was, like, running I noticed that I was, like, They give you and so my pants were, And I lost 70 pounds You could see the definition We thought he wasn't eating, We were worried about him. I felt, like, freedom in a sense because I just kept running and it was, like, a time Had the freedom and actually go and visit him. I thought it was important you know, I think Coss was just trying Coss: Glenn worked out with me. Other guys started running and we just started Working out with Coss He was really militant. He was strong-willed, you know, help us, because it's hard when and you're thinking about I had two months left and this officer says, He was like, &quot;Don't fuck So they put you on a wall, in between my, like, I move my body a little bit, and he punched me I dropped down to the ground, The officer thought I was So as soon as I turn around, [ Alarm rings ] ...and then they threw me I did 30 days in solitary, I started praying and asking God for the wrongdoings I felt regret that and I wanted to give back. What came to my mind I wanted to start So I started writing, and I made it, like, I pictured myself doing It sounds crazy. I might be a little or whatever you want but it felt like and I was, like, acting. You know, it's, You got nothing to do. I'm training and imagining that there's people and I'm, like, So, I came home. I'm 160 pounds, pretty much lost everything, all my money. You know, and nobody wanting So, I went back to my mom's. I live on my mom's couch. I think my relationship with my family was not easy. They didn't believe and told them, like, I want to do the right thing.&quot; I think he realized and he was just trying My favorite memory of him, man, transformed and all that. I was happy to see. That was my favorite I went to the park and started and I, like, stuck it between fences, and, like, just started doing like, seeing the, like, that I used to hang out with just sit on the bench, just Him -- he had a goal. He already set it. He just had to go I came out with the idea, like, &quot;Yo, I'm going to do I'm going to get people out here and work out and all this stuff, and, yo, I know it's going to pop off,&quot; One of the biggest, like, you know, in the country, and this lady comes, &quot;So, you know, I want to build a prison. Nah, it just came out I was like, &quot;I want to build people going maybe wearing jumpsuits take a mugshot, you know, five-minute showers, and then I did it, I raised money, and then I started looking found out that eBay sells, So Conbody is where we hire formerly- to teach fitness classes, it's become a fitness lifestyle I hire people coming out because I felt the pain We have a zero recidivism rate. Anybody that has worked for us Chris: I think one of the most that we all learn There was a moment where My brother was invisible to me. I barely spoke about him. You know, he was He was on the verge You know, he was on the verge for anything in his life, and I think that's and it's something Coss: So, I opened up Conbody in the exact same corner where I first got arrested at with Chris, And then it went back and now I'm selling You know, today we've trained You know, from an idea it became into, you know, a real thing, a reality. [ Police siren wails You should record the po-po. That's part of the brand.