We begin in the middle of the 19th century. In Europe, the rise of nationalism undermines The Kingdom of Sardinia, allied to France, defeats the Austrian empire and obtains Italian unification. Prussia, which eyes the German confederation, also defeats the Austrians to create the North German Confederation. 5 years later, it allies with the southern defeats France and obtains the creation of the German Empire which is proclaimed in Versailles. The new country takes over Alsace Lorraine. To discourage French revenge attacks, Germany moves diplomatically closer to Austria-Hungary and Russia. And it rapidly develops its industry and army. In the southeast of the continent, insurgencies Russia, its historical enemy, takes advantage sparks the independence of Balkan states, However, Russia's rising status is frowned who meet in Berlin to review the treaty. This worsens Russian public opinion about The latter then signs a defensive military Italy joins the alliance, after France seizes The three parties form the Triplice or the Germany, now a major power, embarks upon a The country brings together European powers in Berlin to establish rules around colonization, then seizes territories in Africa and Asia. This causes friction with the British and Faced with growing German power, France and France then obtains from Italy a secret treaty which would avoid it having to manage a second front in the event of war. The United Kingdom also feels threatened by especially by its military fleet which can compete with its Royal Navy. Moreover, Germany moves diplomatically closer notably by building a railway line to link Berlin to Baghdad and facilitating access to Mesopotamian oil, coveted by the British Empire. France, the United Kingdom and Russia then The alliances risk dragging the entire continent Major powers embark upon an arms race and In the south east of the continent, the Ottoman Austria-Hungary takes advantage and annexes This move is opposed by Russia, and especially Serbia which dreams of uniting the Slavic peoples of the South. Then, two Balkan wars push the Ottoman Empire On June 28, 1914 in Sarajevo, the heir to and his wife are assassinated by a bosnian Serb nationalist. Austria-Hungary accuses Serbia of having organized Russia defends Serbia, while Germany, now supports its Austro-Hungarian ally. On July 28, Austria-Hungary declares war on Russia reacts by decreeing a general mobilisation of its troops, triggering Germany to launch its military plan. To avoid having to fight simultaneously on Germany plans to quickly defeat France by bypassing its armies by launching a surprise attack from the north. It would then focus on Russia, whose troops Germany declares war on Russia, invades Luxembourg right of passage for its troops. Belgium refuses insisting upon its neutrality. The following day, Germany declares war on The United Kingdom, which guarantees Belgian and sends its troops to France. In a few days, all European powers, as well Only Italy remains neutral at this stage. In Asia, Japan -- which is allied with the and prepares for an invasion of its colonies On the eastern front, Russia launches its but fails to gain ground in East Prussia, while further south, Austria-Hungary retreats. In the West, the Allied armies cannot hold The Franco-British armies retreat to Marne while the French government flees the capital to take refuge in Bordeaux. But the first German army holding the flank to join with the second army and continue surrounding Allied forces. The Parisian reserve army attacks further With this breach in the ranks, Allied forces This is the failure of the Schlieffen plan. When the front stabilizes, the two camps attempt to outflank each other and embark upon a race to the sea. For Germany, it is also a question of isolating Belgium and seizing ports where British reinforcements and supplies land. The Belgian army barely succeeds in joining Networks of trenches are dug on both sides for about 700km between the North Sea and the Swiss border. Now that the Western front is frozen, both the war becomes total. The mighty Royal Navy imposes a naval blockade while German submarines are sent to British waters to sink all ships and vessels. Aviation, which is still a recent invention, Planes would then gradually be used for bombing The Germans use zeppelin airships to bomb Both sides use lethal gases to attack the Behind the frontlines, entire populations including women who are involved in arms factories. Around the world, European colonies and British They seize German colonies and supply large On the Eastern Front, Russia is in trouble The Ottoman Empire seizes the opportunity A new front opens in the Caucasus as Britain with the goal to take the control of oil resources. In reaction, the Central Powers launch an to cut supply lines from India, but are stopped in their advance. In the Caucasus, after the failure of the the government accuses the Armenian people of having supported Russia. In retaliation, more than half of the Armenian recognized as genocide by 32 countries, but To support geographically isolated Russia, Allies want to open a sea supply route via the Dardanelles Strait. Franco-British ships enter the strait to bomb Ottoman forts, but find the waters full of sea mines, forcing a retreat. A month later, on April 25, Allies organize but Ottoman defenses hold steady, creating another deadlocked warfront. During its submarine war, Germany sinks the causing 1,200 civilian victims, including 128 US citizens. The United States, officially neutral until To prevent the US from going to war, Germany Italy, after negotiating with the Triple Entente declares war on Austria-Hungary and launches an offensive around the Isonzo river. On the Eastern Front, Russia completes its Bulgaria, which wishes to recover Balkan territories, Together with Austro-German forces, they invade In reaction, the Allies violate the neutrality coming from fronts such as Dardanelles, where But it is too late for the overwhelmed Serbian Troops are landed on the island of Corfu, from where they will be gradually brought back to the Macedonian front. On the Western front, Germany launches a massive The German artillery pounds French trenches, In the south of the continent, Portugal, allied with the United Kingdom, confiscates German ships in its ports. In response, Germany declares war on Portugal, who then sends troops to France and to its colonies in Africa, where only German East Africa still resists the Allied offensives. In Mesopotamia, the United Kingdom after losing It secretly negotiates with France the partition The two powers then support an Arab nationalist revolt which starts in Mecca by promising them independence. In the North Sea, German and British fleets Despite heavy losses on the British side, during the night take refuge in their port. While the Battle of Verdun is still ongoing Russia attempts to relieve its allies by launching that succeeds in piercing through opposition defenses. In the West, another great offensive is launched They would use tanks for the first time, but While Romania joins the Entente, the Brusilov and the battles of the Somme and Verdun, all end after having caused tremendous human casualties on both sides. Troops are exhausted and demoralized. In Germany, the war effort and the Allied trade embargo prevent the country from getting enough food, causing widespread famine. Western powers, on the other hand, can count mainly from the United States, towards whom In response, Germany relaunches unrestricted with the objective of sinking all commercial and military ships. In addition, Germany sends a telegram to Mexico The message is intercepted by Britain and transmitted to the United States, which then prepares to go to war. In Russia, the war effort exhausts the population, A provisional government is put in place, The United States in turn declares war on but it would take several months for the first troops to join the frontlines. Greece, which is under pressure from the Allies, In both camps, exhausted soldiers begin mutinies. On the Isonzo front, 11 similar Italian offensives further affecting troop morale. Austro-German troops counterattack and push At the gates of Gaza, after a victory, British To gain the support of the Jewish community, British prime minister Arthur Balfour publishes a statement addressing Lord Rothschild, a leader of the British Zionist Federation, promising a state for Jewish people in Palestine. In Russia, the Bolsheviks organize a second They sign an armistice with Germany. But after the breakdown of negotiations, war Austro-German forces put the Russian army forcing the country to accept a peace treaty and recognize the independence of new states. Russia then sees the start of a civil war. With Russia out of the game, Germany concentrates on the Western front to win before US troops grow in strength. A large-scale offensive is launched lasting 4 months, and German troops push their way to Marne again. But a powerful Allied counter offensive forces In parallel, the Allies launch an offensive on the Macedonian front which quickly forces Bulgaria to sign an armistice. The Ottoman Empire finds itself isolated, as the French land in Beirut. Austria-Hungary retreats to the Balkans and The empire is also weakened by minority separatists The Ottoman Empire, followed by Austria-Hungary, In Germany, sailors refuse to fight the Royal Navy and start a mutiny which turns into a popular revolt. The Kaiser is forced to abdicate, and Germany's which is signed on November 11, 1918. Over a period of 6 months, victors of the without inviting Bolshevik Russia who signed The United States proposes a peace plan which The United Kingdom and especially France, want to weaken Germany and make it pay heavy reparations. June 28, 1919 proves to be a symbolic date a peace treaty is signed between in the same room where the German Empire had been The measures imposed on Germany are severe. The country loses 20% of its territory and mainly to the benefit of Poland which is recreated and which obtains access to the sea. Germany is cut in two while the Saar region, rich in coal, is brought under international control for 15 years. German colonies are carved up among the victors. The country's army is severely dismantled. Finally, Germany and its allies are considered solely responsible for war damages and must pay all reparations. The treaty is considered a humiliation by Austria-Hungary is completely dismantled. Czechoslovakia and the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats Italy feels aggrieved as it does not obtain Austria, which is entirely German-speaking, The Ottoman Empire is also dismembered during The UK struggles to keep its word, having and independence to the Arabs. The Turks refuse the treaty and take up arms They gain some territories, then sign in Lausanne The First World War -- or the so-called Great was then the deadliest ever, with just under 18 million dead, including 8 million civilians. The weakened population was then hit hard Economically, European powers find themselves to the benefit of neutral countries and the United States, which strengthens its status as the leading economic power. Russia becomes the USSR, a country exhausted by war and frustrated by the loss of many European territories. In Palestine, tensions mount between Arabs The new European borders disgruntle many. The fact that some German populations are would contribute to the outbreak of