The crusades were a miraculous combined effort to unify and take back the Holy Land from A spectacular feat, given how much Europe's the crusades should, in theory, have been Yet, somehow, the crusades failed. Why, and how, did this happen?... The First Crusade began in 1095 and didn't the Muslim Seljuk Turks. By this point, after the Great Schism of 1054, between the Catholic Romans and the Orthodox to encroach upon Byzantium, Emperor Alexios for help in protecting their Christian lands. By 1087, the Turks had already taken the integral prompting the Pope to call for the first crusade Clermont. After roughly a year of drumming up support by "taking the cross" and joining the and rewarded greatly, Pope Urban managed to the Byzantines. As these crusaders had been gathering, the clash with the Muslim Fatimid Caliphate from months prior to the Christians' arrival. Despite the crusading forces being vastly Alexios had requested, the First Crusade was Both Antioch and Jerusalem were recaptured, new Christian states were then established But alas, this remarkable triumph on its own A second crusade was launched in 1147 and The problem with this crusade was that it city of Edessa from, yet again, the Seljuk the campaign to be launched in 1145, he was as more of a call to protect holy lands and naming Edessa. Consequently, there was some confusion on aim of the crusaders, which ultimately resulted While some efforts in Iberia and the Baltics of the Second Crusade was severely negative. Infighting between the western and eastern sabotaged the Christian efforts and allowed This disappointment would soon trigger the The Third Crusade began in 1189 and was focused which had now been captured by the infamous This time, some early victories, such as the redemption for the failure of the Second Crusade. When Pope Gregory VIII called for the third world that success was a necessity and nothing Crusade would suffice. Nonetheless, by the end of the two-year campaign, up the cross had survived, and his army had of battle. Upon reaching the edge of Jerusalem, the last he would stand no chance against any amount chose not to follow through with a siege on Completely contrary to what the crusaders demoralizing campaign yet... Until, the Fourth Crusade. When Pope Innocent III called for yet another still set on retaking Jerusalem. This was, in fact, the initial goal of the and disturbing twist, the real target became The West had long been suspicious of the East, the only problem to wreak havoc on the Fourth The first sign of trouble came when the crusaders first target - Egypt. Before the crusaders could leave, the Venetians they were unable to afford the expensive cost As part of this agreement, the crusaders had Zara, which had recently fallen into Hungarian When word reached the Pope of this change both the Crusaders and Venetians and excommunicated in the attack on Zara. The reason why attention now turned to Constantinople startling turn of events, the crusaders marched The invaders first attempted to replace the but they quickly realized that their intended theirs. This led a completely different usurper, Alexios push the crusaders to use military might instead An initial attack on April 9, 1204, was repelled through 3 days later. The latter then massacred and raped thousands innocent civilians, destroying property on The crusaders finally finished their raiding that gave the Venetians three-eighths of the placed on the throne. The Byzantines would never fully recover, the real reason behind these campaigns was And yet, somehow, Pope Innocent managed to was a good idea. So, in 1217, the Fifth Crusade would begin; Jerusalem by first weakening the Muslim forces Egypt, which was under Ayyubid control. Predictably by this point, the crusaders were Another failure came and Jerusalem was still The Christians, albeit an utter mess when first, were surely determined. Now, in 1228, a sixth such operation was launched, - Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II. Though the monarch had been excommunicated repetitive delay of making good on his promise become the savior of this endeavor. Finally, in 1229, the emperor and his army put on a pause. With the Muslim sultan facing internal threats negotiations with Frederick. The opposing leaders ultimately signed the full freedom to occupy Jerusalem once again, This, along with other possessions received success after the previously calamitous crusades. But, unfortunately, the crusaders knew not As had been the case many times over, Jerusalem by Muslim forces. So, as they neared the mid-13th century, Pope This one was led by the French King Louis but to capture the whole of Egypt as well. Initially, this crusade also began with success, But, as history repeats itself, this was where The crusaders were routed at Mansourah, ending of the minuscule remainder of his army. Damietta was also returned to the Muslims. Once the French king was released from enemy eventually begin another campaign... The Eighth Crusade was scarcely even a crusade. Organized by King Louis as before, the goals Seventh Crusade. The plan was to attack a weak point in North As the bulk of the crusader army set up camp them, bringing even the king himself down Though Louis had suffered from dysentery previously and passed away on August 25, 1270. Charles of Anjou would take Louis's place changed the campaign's trajectory, as Charles that allowed some privileges for Christians gave no new territory to the crusaders. Still, this was enough for Charles, and he In one final push to redeem the crusader name Lord Edward of England attempted to launch This last-ditch effort was only minimally spirit was nearly non-existent by this point, cause with Edward. After some minor victories, Edward and his in 1272 and returned home shortly after. Still, the Christians lacked Jerusalem... So, the answer to why the crusades failed campaigns had such disastrous results. Mostly, the outcome was a consequence of poor and ill-equipped forces. The crusaders, to be fair, were often just . While some high-ranking generals and monarchs fall short of being enough. And frankly, the biggest reason why the crusades individual failure along the way...