A few weeks ago, I interviewed one of my favorite we started geeking out over the masked emcee, His flow I have to be careful with his flow heart. I can almost get into his mind on how This is what MF Doom sounds like. Just listen. He'll have entire bars that rhyme. Like in the punchline bar. It's incredible. It made me wonder: What can I learn from rappers simply by looking I try to start off with 16 dots on the paper. That's Rakim. He's widely regarded as If 4 bars was this long. I see like a graph words and so many syllables. I could take words you could put in those 4 bars. So, before we get into rhymes we need to know Martin: I always try to find the beat of the That's Martin Connor. He's analyzed the the last syllable. And he writes about it. Martin: A bar is a grouping together of 4 Before guys like Rakim came along, rhymes Take one of the first commercially successful This simple AA BB rhyming pattern with no But, fast forward to 1986 and you've got Eric B. &amp; Rakim. Compare this to "The Breaks" and it's But not only are you seeing more rhymes you're "Indeed" and "Proceed" are internal "Man made a mix" and "band-aid to fix" The other thing Rakim does later in the verse tremendously clever way. Crossing the bar line happens when a sentence doesn't end when the bar ends. If you listen closely you'll hear that the Lands on the first beat of the next bar. Rakim even references this in the lyric. And Now, fast forward 11 years and Notorious B.I.G's to make one of the smoothest rap songs ever. Martin: What I like most about this is that So sometimes Notorious B.I.G.s sentences are Like the moment in this verse here: He's also completely comfortable delivering But, what makes this song stand out the most to me one begins. Like this moment in verse 2. The first group of rhymes is the "oo" which then begins the "ih" and so on. It's a huge reason Biggie sounds so smooth Now, as much as Biggie daisy chained an entire most part using single syllable and single And this is where artists like Mos Def push His verse on "Re:Definition" from 2002 4 syllable rhymes. And he does it across a whopping 14 bars. In Re:Definition, Mos Def is very clearly This is where Andre 3000 shakes things up Now listen to each syllable, with the beat in mind. Most rappers would have dollars, parlors, But Andre is accenting each rhyme within different People say that the word orange doesn't rhyme with anything. think of a lot of things that rhyme with orange... In fact, Eminem, does this exact thing on Eminem doesn't just pack in tremendously incredibly vivid stories. And for a lot of people that wins in a battle. This is where "Lose Yourself" comes in. Award. Whew the Oscar goes to Eminem, for Lose Yourself Martin: I'll see the line and I'll separate it all into not just words or sentences, but into their syllables. When you group all of these rhymes together, It's unpredictable, it's complex rhythmically It's not just that you're rhyming, still telling a good story. And &quot;Lose Yourself&quot; is like that. Today, rappers like Kendrick Lamar are carrying on the tradition of artists to create really memorable songs. Let's look at Kendrick Lamar's "Rigamortus" The first thing you'll notice is that Kendrick What's a motive? It's a short musical notes that has some special importance in Here's probably the most recognizable motive That "du du du dummmmm" is carried out followed by a long note. The musical motive in "Rigamortus" is stringing the entire When Kendrick goes into 4th gear he As much as Biggie's "Hypnotize" sounds there are a lot of musical similarities. Remember how Biggie daisy chained rhymes? Biggie also creates a motive with the sequence Now, let's get back to MF Doom. Two years MF Doom released 3 full albums including Madvillainy - which is widely considered one Mos Def can't even contain his excitement For the most part, MF Doom rhymes on the beat up with wazoo often rhyming entire lines together. This is called a holorime. Mike: He'll do setup punchline. Like his but not in a way that he'll be setting up direction, but just acknowledges where the last bar was. This is what Mike is talking about. MF Doom understands the power of rhyme and a humorous way. As Pitchfork points out "the rhyme's pattern &quot;bitches,&quot; yet Doom hilariously says &quot;booze&quot; Where artists like Kendrick Lamar, Eminem, with their rhymes, MF Doom is using his dense Before you know it you're being hit with Martin: I love rappers with that syncopated uneven phrasing where the sentences don't line up with the bars because, like you said, you can't predict what's going to happen. The point of appreciating it is to see what the very most clever human beings are capable of doing that you didn't think possible.