We've discussed black holes a lot on this of spacetime where curvature is really pushed to far beyond any intuition we could have built despite all the attention they've been getting, can show off its most beautiful curves. In of spacetime called "white holes," which get the exact opposite of black holes. And in can be connected by a totally different type of a kind of limbo zone between parallel universes. and thought it wasn't more than just a fancy even though these regions are possible in theory, wormholes actually exist in our universe. But a purely theoretical--and now, we think there our telescopes to see. So, in this video, we're just what are these other holes that we can that they might be more than science fiction? I'm Alex McColgan, and you're watching different types of spacetime that can the possibilities will bend your mind as much as Before we dive into the physics of of General Relativity--I want to start off with a you'll probably think of either something that points down, like an ice cream cone. These are if you write down the most general mathematical you'll get something that looks like two cones two halves, one that points up and one that points of as cones in the real world are actually just Black holes are the exact same way. Let me the universe are the remnants of massive stars, in on themselves. Once a black hole is created, around it by a spherical barrier known as an event but nothing--not even light--can come out. This in what physicists call a Penrose Diagram, spacetime in a finite drawing. The key feature of 45o angles, making it easy to distinguish In this diagram, Region 1 is the regular universe, into a black hole) and everything outside of future. Region 2 is the black hole, and it is event horizon. You can see how it's easy for light impossible for light to exit--it will inevitably for ordinary matter, which moves slower than light angles steeper than 45o. What's so special about formation of the black hole at some specific point In the far past, there was no event horizon or travel across all of space. But while this diagram seeing in the real world, it's only one piece of in General Relativity. In other words, it is So what happens if we forget the real world and leaving behind the baggage of collapsing stars and the black-hole analogue of the full mathematical our original Penrose diagram, but this diagram . Region 1 is still our regular universe, and singularity in its future. But the maths also a black hole in region 3. Instead of a singularity past. And if you draw the motion of light rays at for light to leave region 3, but it can never we would call a white hole--it's the spacetime If you look beyond the white hole, you'll see 4 with the same connections to the black and white patch is a parallel universe, and it's entirely it's impossible for even light to travel from one that the same mathematical equation describing the the parallel universe and the white hole. This to a white hole, though. Just like with cones, of the full mathematical solution. But this does their black hole counterparts--or even if there at all--it doesn't make them any less scientific, the laws of physics. In our analogy, if you popular, while traffic cones become difficult doesn't make the idea of a traffic cone any less holes today: the notion of a white hole makes holes that existed in the past were unstable and wondering whether there could be some more stable you're not the only one--and you should stick white holes in just a few minutes. But first, hanging. I promised you wormholes. I promised you each other. So buckle up, because we're about The No Hair Theorem says that a black hole mass, charge, and spin. But the Penrose the simplest kind of black hole, which was The diagrams for charged or spinning but they're also much more exciting, because singularities, and they give rise to new Let's have a look at the Penrose diagram for a four distinct regions of spacetime, there are in an infinite pattern of universes. Regions 1 these are the regular universe, the black hole, now that the black hole is spinning, its geometry future--and the white hole similarly loses So, what actually happens after you cross the you'll be drawn toward the centre of the black you'll cross a threshold known as the spacetime un-warps and lets you stop yourself from marked 5 and 7, you can float freely toward or even touch the singularity if you wanted to--though regions of a curved, rotating spacetime, you for the fact that you are permanently separated have been the perfect time for you to brag about you're also faced with a bit of a fork in the go around the singularity, which takes the shape holes. This path would take you to region 6 that the existence of this path is actually a rather than a true description of reality, because can lead to causal paradoxes where you visit your and move outwards, crossing back into the inner you into region 3--a white hole--which would then similar in structure to the one you started out or family waiting for you. In fact, by the time experienced an infinite amount of time. You would Okay, let's step back into reality. As fun as you probably couldn't survive it in practice--and itself would collapse once you disturbed its structure can we expect to see in the real world? be everywhere in the universe--but what goes on are two main reasons for why the physics inside Penrose diagram would lead you to believe. First, of massive stars, some assumptions that went into the black hole existed forever, or that the doesn't contain random infalling humans. And to construct the Penrose diagram might itself near the singularity where the curvature gets some predictions of the diagram--especially the and time travel paradoxes--aren't real features of white holes is more of an open possibility, they might come to be and whether they might leave One hypothesis that's recently gained some a black hole dies. And no, this isn't some a genuine attempt to understand the full life of mathematical backing. You see, even an space will continuously emit particles known as and lose mass over time. But once the black about 20 micrograms--we have no way of predicting full theory of quantum gravity. This is where between gravity and quantum mechanics, in which the equations of Loop Quantum Gravity predict that the Planck mass, such a tiny black hole is instead spewing out its contents back into the universe even though this white hole will be similarly amount of entropy, because its interior geometry an extremely large volume. This store of for any information that falls into a black solving a decades-long problem in theoretical the white hole releases this information, the spacetime around it loses its curvature, But before this video comes to a close, let Relativity, our whole universe is predicted to billion years ago, at the moment of the Big Bang. stationary white hole. But if Loop Quantum when black holes collapse, could the same be it be that our expanding universe was born from As crazy as this seems, Loop Quantum But there are so many different ideas for that we would need a whole new video want to hear more about how the Big Bang let us know in the comments below--the history If any of you watched my video on the Lunar end of that video I talked about my frustration to advertisers for profit. I'd been getting and it was a huge irritation. The sponsor of this video - told me they could do something about advertisers? Blissful silence. It's only 3 months right down. This likely has something to do with brokers on my behalf, and have got [40] of them leaving them unable to sell my data to and give them permission, they will not only force that would have taken me months to do on my own - to make sure your personal data never gets Scan my QR code, or follow my link exclusive 60% off your annual Incogni plan. Thanks for watching. And thanks to our crew make science knowledge freely available to or miss sometimes so your contributions help want to find out how to contribute too, check click the link to this playlist for more