So we've all heard how companies like Facebook the internet and keep track of what we're They do this to sell targeted ads or in some our permission. In recent months, there has been a lot of its users across the internet. So how do they do this? Before we dive in, let's look at what cookies Let's start with some quick history. The cookie was created in 1994 by an employee that made the browser. He was creating an online shop, and he didn't cart on the server. Instead, he wanted a way to save it on the made their purchase. The reason for this is simple: if the server shopping cart, it has less work and can save In 1994 the Netscape browser implemented cookies suit. However two years later - in 1996 - the first that cookies could potentially invade our That would turn out to be very true, but we're Let's take a look at how cookies work. Let's imagine we have a website that requires site. When you log in, your browser sends your username and - if everything checks out - sends you However, there is a small caveat. The HTTP protocol - which is what we use to That means that when you make another request you are and will ask you to log in again. Can you imagine how time-consuming it would having to log in again every time you click So cookies to the rescue! You still log in to the website, and the server If everything checks out, however, the server sends a cookie to your browser. The cookie is then stored on your computer you make to that website. The cookie contains a unique identifier that are and keep you logged in. As you can see, cookies are very useful, and But it doesn't stop there! Besides keeping you logged in, cookies can Let's say you change the number of results Chances are high that they save this preference But there are also some restrictions on the Most browsers only allow websites to store a lot of data (just 4096 bytes). The biggest limitation, however, is the fact read by another. And that restriction raises the question: around the internet? Especially if a cookie from one website cannot How can Facebook for instance track what sites Well, the whole process starts when you log To remember that you're logged in, Facebook unusual about that, many other sites do the This cookie is scoped, or bound to Facebook's facebook.com can read what's in the cookie. Let's now imagine that you browse away and The blog cannot read your Facebook cookie, Facebook also can't see that you're on All is well. But let's now assume that the owner of the website. To show this like button, your browser has and when it's talking to facebook.com, it Facebook now knows who you are and that you I'm using Facebook as the example here, to track you around the internet. The trick is simple: convince as many websites their sites. Facebook has it easy because a lot of people Google also has an easy job because many websites Analytics. At this stage, cookies are getting out of I read the cookie policy of a few popular Here is an overview of how many cookies they Reading some tech news on CNET: 100 cookies Reading The New York Times: 57 cookies on LinkedIn 28 cookies. And then some companies take it to the extreme. The company behind Yahoo mentions that their 455! That's just outrageous! Granted, not all of these cookies track you In fact, a handful of them are essential for cookie to remember that you're logged in. However, the majority of cookies on these They are there to track you or to display So what can we do to prevent these cookies As a user, you can protect yourself from trackers them like Privacy Badger or Ghostery. You could also switch to a browser with built-in And if you don't want to do anything, the More and more politicians realize that cookies trackers should be regulated. In Europe, we have the GDPR which requires of cookies and requires sites to offer users You've probably seen these annoying cookie Next time you see them, don't just click wants to place on your computer and for what So to summarize: cookies were invented to signed into websites or remember the settings However, the downside is that cookies, along corporations to follow us around on the internet sell to others. I hope you found this video interesting and If you did, you can support me by subscribing up. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll