- A quintessential French bistro dish, but it's actually quite simple to make. Today in the Test (upbeat music) We'll take a luxurious pack it with tons of pepper flavor, the richness of heavy cream, the luxurious flavor of some cognac, and then baste it with tons of butter. I'll show you a simple way to make it. Here we have four beautiful and these have got some great Filets are already super tender, but all that marbling to melt in your mouth. Start by mincing one shallot, section it as you would an onion and Shallots bring a light onion flavor without overpowering the sauce. This is a classic ingredient Reserve the minced shallot for Next we'll crush our peppercorns. I like to put them in a small zip top bag and strike with a meat mallet, but you could also crush them They should be roughly cracked. You don't want them finely ground, because then the pepper would burn when you saute it in a pan. I'm using a melange peppercorn, but using all black would work just fine. It's helpful to pat the steaks dry, so that the peppercorns season the steaks with on the first side, then by pressing firmly into Having a dry exterior and pressing firmly into the peppercorns from falling off during cooking. Gently flip the filets, making sure not to knock off any of that peppercorn crust. Season the second side with salt only. You will get plenty of So there's no need to I'm gonna cook this over a gas burner in order to flambe the sauce later. You can cook this on an electric if that's what you have. Heat your skillet to medium The key to this recipe without the peppercorns first. This will allow for a on the steak itself and help and make sure you hear that sizzle when your steak hits the pan you want it good and on that unpeppered side. Check to make sure that before flipping them over. This is your only opportunity on the un-peppered side. Once you flip the steaks, This will help the pan cool slightly, which will prevent the The butter provides a flavorful fat in which to baste the steaks. Basting helps to enhance the crust as we cook the second side. Make sure to get a good sear but remember to be doesn't fall off the top. Try only to touch the sides of to keep the pepper crust intact. We'll get these into the oven while we build our sauce. I like to use a sheet pan with a wire rack so that the stakes aren't in order to evenly cook them through and keep that good sear on the bottom. To start building our sauce, into the pan, season and let them saute for just a minute. Here we use brined green peppercorns. Green peppercorns are fresh peppercorns that have been brined rather than dried. Take the pan off the heat This will help prevent Turn the heat back up the simmering cognac to flambe. This step isn't necessary, but as to when the alcohol And it's a pretty cool party trick. If you no longer smell then it's time to add the beef broth and bring it to a simmer. Add the heavy cream to the and then reduce that to We're gonna allow this for about 10 minutes or As this sauce reduces, the peppercorns, and broth and make such a delectable sauce. Make sure to use brined because the latter would with spicy pepper flavor. If you can't find green peppercorns, a couple pinches of ground but it's really worth Occasionally stir so that You'll be able to tell that it's ready once the sauce begins to The filets are out of the They have an awesome pepper crust on top where the peppercorns are My favorite way to serve seasoned with some salt and fresh herbs. Steak frite is one of that I always crave. The crunchy pepper the creamy peppery sauce and crispy fries work together so beautifully. Now we'll get this plated up. Pile up a big mound of and then we'll spoon a beautiful Now just take a second to Place the steak on top of the sauce, because you don't wanna cover up that beautiful pepper crust. There you have one of the classic, French Bistro dishes and with these tips, you will have success doing Be sure to like and subscribe here in the Test Kitchen (pleasant music)