&quot;The value of information does not survive the moment It lives only at that moment; it has to surrender to it and explain itself to it &quot;A story is different. It preserves and and is capable of releasing it -- Walter Benjamin Vice Documentary Films PRESENT THE THIRD INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION A RADICAL NEW SHARING ECONOMY The global economy is in crisis. Economists warn that we face declining productivity, and increasing inequality. The economic downturn is fueling governing institutions and spawning around the world. And now, after 200 years scientists report that ravaging the planet, the sixth mass extinction Where do we go from here? Jeremy Rifkin is and the author of &quot;The Zero Marginal Cast Society,&quot; and &quot;The Empathic Civilization.&quot; He is an advisor and The People's Republic of China, and a principal architect of their Let me start on a very somber note. I hope it will end up being You'll have to judge. GDP is slowing And the reason is productivity for twenty years The result: Unemployment And nowhere is it the Millennial Generation Our economists tell us slow productivity and slow growth And let me do the math for you: At the end of two in the 19th and 20th century, We have to admit that is far better off today than our ancestors were before Granted? Also we need to acknowledge are making $2 a day or less. And arguably they are worse off than their ancestors were before And the final equation: The industrial era, while in detriment to the well-off, the Today, the 62 wealthiest --we could put them in this The 62 wealthiest human beings their combined wealth of one half the human population Three and a half billion people. There's something about the way its economic relationships It's clear we're in a long-term at the end of the But now this industrial air to a much more profound crisis We have spewed and methane and nitrous oxide to create this And now we have so much CO2, methane and nitrous oxide that is blocking the sun's heat We are in real time climate change. This is no longer a theory. This is no longer This is no longer imminent. Climate change is now What's terrifying --and unfortunately because if it were explained, our human family would be and motivated and driven Climate change changes That's what this is all about. We're the watery planet. Our satellite probes and what's the first thing No water? Not interested! Recently they discovered what and everybody is thrilled. Our ecosystems on Earth have based on the water cycles, the cloud cycles that For every one degree that the because of industrial induced For every one degree that the the atmosphere is 7% more precipitation The heat is forcing so we're getting more violent water events, throwing the entire water cycle More blockbuster winter snows. Eight feet in Boston More dramatic spring floods --that flood in the Carolinas, They said this flood only will It's the new normal. More prolonged summer droughts. My wife and I were in and we're coming into Vancouver. The pilot says, &quot;We have I turned to my wife and I said, No, he meant smoke. Wildfires from Summer droughts and wildfire. We have Category 3, 4, and 5 --so dramatic that and killing people That hurricane that This was the most This is the new normal. What I'm saying here is dramatically changing They're out an exponential curve. This is absolutely frightening. It's terrifying. And, if you are a young millennial If you're a parent here I want you to listen to this. Our scientists now tell us extinction event of life on Earth. It doesn't even make the headlines. This is the most dramatic story There have been five in 450 million years. And each time the chemistry --there's what we call and massive die out. And after the massive die out of life, it takes upwards of 10 million years to get new life back on Earth. Our scientists now tell us we are This is not a model-- And what they're saying is that --and many of you will and your children will we could lose over half that now inhabits this As my wife says, the enormity of this moment. We might acknowledge but we're going on with a little green washing. 99.5% of all the species have come and gone. And what's interesting is, We're the actual youngest species, Anatomically modern humans have There's no guarantee And the new studies they're even more terrifying freshwater melts in the Arctic, now much quicker than we expected And they're talking about storms that are beyond that we've ever seen in human history Talking about where much of our This is not a century from now. This is in the lifetime of who are four and five now we're in full steam So what do we do? We need a new It has to be compelling. We needed a game plan and it needs to be quick. It needs to move as quickly as in the industrialized nations. If we have any chance of arresting we're gonna have to be off carbon This is beyond anything we're How do we begin to tackle We need to step back and reflect on how the great economic If we know how they occur, we're gonna get a road map here and we're gonna get a compass that to completely transform the way CHAPTER ONE: The Great There have been at least seven major economic paradigm shifts and they're very interesting they share a common denominator. And that is at three technologies emerge to create what we call a general-purpose That's a fancy way of saying It fundamentally changes the way we manage power What are those three technologies? First, new to allow us to more efficiently Second, new sources of energy to allow us to more efficiently And third, new modes of mobility to allow us to more efficiently So when communication revolutions and new modes of transportation it does change the way we manage It changes It changes our habitats. It allows us to integrate It actually even changes Let me give you two examples: First Industrial Revolution, Second Industrial Revolution, The Brits took us into And first there was They invented No more manual print presses. Steam power printing because it allowed us to mass Then, in the the Brits lay out a telegraph Steam power printing and the telegraph: those communication technologies a completely new source of energy But how are they gonna They invented the steam engine. Then this is ingenious: They figured out that they should for locomotives, Urban life, steam power. Second Industrial Revolution: Centralized electricity and especially the telephone. I know we think but a telephone All of a sudden, at vast distances Later, radio and television. These communication technologies converge in the United States with Cheap Texas oil. Then, Henry Ford with cars, buses, and trucks. Second Industrial Revolution changed the way we manage power That second Industrial Revolution It took the whole world And it peaked in July 2008. Hi! Welcome back to the show here: To $147 we went-- Remember that month? In that month, Brent crude oil had a record price of $147 dollars and, when it hit that record price, the whole global economy shut down. Silence. Completely gone. That was the economic earthquake. The collapse of the was the aftershock. Mayhem, carnage, and bloodbath. Call it what you want, on global stock markets today Good evening. what may someday be called because it was perhaps since the Great Depression. Our policy leaders are not the Earthquake. Why was it the Earthquake? Because the entire that we've gone through is all dependent on of a previous period in history. You know, if we look back through this I always wonder what will maybe in a They'll say, &quot;There was &quot;These were &quot;They dug up the burial grounds and created a short-lived dramatic It's all about fossil fuels. Our fertilizers and pesticides Our construction materials Most of our pharmaceutical products Our synthetic fiber, our power, our transport, our heating lights-- all made out of, When the price of oil all the other prices go up. When we get into the zone of prices become so high, This is the sunset Now you remember in 2009 because the economy had shut down. There was no activity. In 2010, we tried so oil prices started to go up In 2014 we hit a new peak of Purchasing power slowed down again. This is a convulsion of And the only reason oil went down in the last few years is now the fossil fuel industry In the sunset. OPEC said, &quot;We're gonna keep &quot;We're gonna &quot;And that's gonna take and wipe out our new competitors, shale gas in the US, They wiped them out Bankruptcies across the USA And now tar sands in Canada. The pipeline's not happening. And do you hear anybody talking It's over! And, as soon as the the oil prices are now But now we have failed states We have failed States. So this is a volatile, over the next 40 to 50 years Where do we head from here? Let me share an anecdote. When Angela Merkel became she asked me to come to Berlin in the first couple of weeks to help her address to grow the German economy Now, remember: Germany's the most robust capitalist When I got to Berlin, the first question I asked I said, &quot;Madam Chancellor how are when your businesses are plugged in of centralized telecommunication, fossil fuel nuclear power, internal combustion, --and that infrastructure in Germany, years ago? CHAPTER TWO: Let me talk about productivity. This is crucial. Our economists are lamenting. They're asking, &quot;Why's productivity &quot;We have all these new killer products &quot;Why is productivity declining?&quot; I'm gonna share with you in economics that economists We used to believe that that drive productivity Better machines and But when Robert Solow for economic growth theory he actually let He said, When we trace every single year of these two factors it only accounts for about So Robert Solow &quot;Where does the other Don't know. Moses Abramowitz, American Economic Association said, &quot;This is a measure of our ignorance.&quot; Now wouldn't you think where productivity comes from, because that's the basis Here's why they don't know. When classical economic theory in the late seventeen hundreds, the Vogue was Newton's physics. Newton was the big guy in town. Everybody wanted to use so they could be more scientific because he had discovered the laws The economists also fell in line. For example, you know Newton's law: &quot;For every action there's Adam Smith borrowed that metaphor for his invisible hand &quot;For every action on the supply side there's an equal and opposite Newton's law: &quot;A body in motion Baptiste Say borrowed that metaphor And he suggested that, which will generate supply, --unless disrupted.&quot; All of our economic theory, if it's all based on Newton's There's only one problem with this: Newton's physics has absolutely Nothing. Nothing. economics is governed by the the solar system, and every single thing you and I while we're here on this planet. Here are the two laws that govern including our economy. The first law of Energy says: &quot;All the energy in the universe &quot;Since the Big Bang, &quot;No energy has been destroyed That's the conservation law. The second law of energy that the energy isn't created but it always changes form, From concentrated--the Big Bang-- From hot to cooled off From order to disorder. Entropy is a measure of the not available to do useful work. There are three systems that an open system that exchanges matter a closed system, which exchanges but does an exchange matter; and an isolated system, which with the outside world. The Earth in relation to the We get plenty of energy we don't have to worry about this But in terms of the fixed matter we don't have a lot of We get a few meteorites, but whatever we have --which is a form of energy--has been and cooled off. All of you have smartphones there are little granules They've been here since That's a form of energy So here's what We extract low entropy, --a rare Earth, a metallic ore, we extract it and then, we store it, we ship it, we produce we consume it, Those are value chains. At every step of conversion, and move it through society-- we have to embed energy to get it to the next stage But we lose some energy in the This is called Aggregate efficiency is the ratio versus the actual useful work in the good or service. Let me give you an example. Nature has the same that we have in our human economy. If a lion chases down then kills it, about 10-20% of the total energy gets embedded into the lion. The rest is heat That's the aggregate efficiency. What does this have to do with the Chancellor of Germany? She's a physicist, you know, So here's what I said to her. We started the 2nd Industrial with 3% aggregate efficiency. At every conversion of nature's we lost about 97%--it didn't By 1990, the US got up to about That was our ceiling And I reported to the Chancellor that 18.5% aggregate efficiency. That was their ceiling. Anybody wanna guess in aggregate efficiency? --China? Japan! 20% aggregate efficiency, What I'm saying You can have market reforms, You can create incentives You can try to create It won't make If your businesses to a 2nd Industrial Revolution you can't get above the ceiling of 20% aggregate efficiency Why is this important? A new generation of economists have gone back and and they added better machines, better workers, The ratio--yes, it's so obvious! When they put in that third factor, it accounts for Henry Ford could have told you this. In fact every engineer Every architect Every biologist Every chemist They all have to start by learning these two laws I teach in the oldest I taught the at the Wharton School for 15 years. Not a single business school today, right now, the 1st and 2nd laws that govern economic activity. How shameful is this? So, in that first day we discussed a new convergence of energy and transportation to manage power and move Germany. At the end of the day, the Chancellor said, &quot;Mr. Rifkin, we will have this here in Germany. CHAPTER THREE: The communication internet It's been 25 years since We have digitalized communication. Now this communication with a nascent, digitalized, And now both those Internets fledgling, automated, GPS, road, rail, water, to create three Internets: communication internet, renewable energy internet, automated One super internet to manage, These three internets ride on top called the &quot;Internet of Things.&quot; We're embedding sensors so they can monitor and then talk to other machines So we have sensors now and they're actually monitoring the soil salinity, They're sending that data. We have sensors now that are monitoring We have sensors in smart homes monitoring how the energy We have sensors in smart vehicles, All of them collecting data. But where does that big data go? It goes to communication, energy, to manage, power, As this new system comes in it's gonna be ubiquitous by 2030, connecting everything with We are essentially creating --a distributed nervous system-- that's gonna allow at very low cost, to begin directly engaging on a global Internet of Things and bypassing a lot of the and middlemen that kept us We can have direct engagement now. This is the revolution. This evens the playing field. There's been a long discussion You started this: Saying, &quot;What about the 1%? Now we have a new platform. The Internet of Things platform than the platforms in the The new platform is really radical, because this 3rd is designed to be distributed, It works best and open and transparent, And the benefits come when more and each of us which benefits the network It's designed to be laterally scaled, And this is what moves us to a vast, vast expansion and global networks. That's the upside. On the other hand, how do we How do we ensure that everyone to this new this 3rd Industrial Revolution? How do we make sure governments for political purposes How do we make sure some of them on the Internet, don't use that data for their own How do we ensure privacy How do we ensure data security How do we prevent cyber crime that could disrupt the system when everyone's connected? This is the DarkNet, and what the DarkNet is as impressive And I would say that beginning with you and You're gonna be heavily engaged And that movement is against the DarkNet prevailing, and making sure that we all so the human family can engage and begin to have a vast expansion This is the political struggle your children and grandchildren. This is an uphill battle. This is not a cakewalk. I'm not a technological determinist Technology just enables, How will that journey end? It's a big question mark right now. But let's assume, that we're gonna be able all the complexities of the DarkNet Here's what this Internet of Things Let's say here at Brooklyn --small and medium-sized enterprise, You can go up on this nascent that's already emerging. It's not theoretical. And you can have of all the economic data --if it stays network neutral. The power here is enormous. We think Snowden was a big deal? Now all the economic data not just a few government secrets. But in a network neutral world you're gonna be able to go up and have a completely transparent You can go up on the platform on your value chain Then, you can mine your big data Then you can create your own They'll allow you to dramatically at every step of conversion And, as you do that, dramatically dramatically reduce and dramatically Some of those marginal costs --they head to zero marginal cost. And when they hit near it gives rise to a completely CHAPTER FOUR: Zero Marginal Cost In economic theory, where you sell at marginal cost. Marginal cost is after fixed costs. Once you pay for The marginal cost is Classical economic theory, the most optimum market is Here's the problem we a technology revolution that would be so powerful that it could actually reduce for some goods and services Meaning there's no longer and you can produce goods beyond the market for nearly free. This sharing economy Capitalism gave birth Let me be clear: As muddy as it's the first to enter onto the world stage since capitalism and socialism It's a remarkable historical event. This is already happening. Zero marginal cost phenomena It's been how many years since About 17 years? 17 years! Well, this little file-sharing We have 3 billion people --and now the Internet of Things-- who are actually producing at near zero marginal cost disrupting entire industries. We have young people that are And what does it cost to have a little technology, studio-quality music when And then, to one person on the web or a billion-- It's zero marginal costs. You just need a service provider I was surprised when that a couple years ago-- A billion people Zero marginal cost. We have millions of young people, who are producing their own Take a little video, a billion people can see it. Zero marginal cost. We have people producing their own Near zero marginal cost. We have millions of people and constructing the knowledge on a non-profit website for free. This is the most improbable I don't know how Jimmy Wales I would have said, Adam Smith said, pursues their own self-interest about the public good.&quot; But in pursuing their self-interest and not giving a damn By pursuing their self-interest, I always thought but that's how we grew up. But apparently, none of the Because, for example, freely giving your talent, putting things up on Wikipedia, constructing the knowledge You've democratized knowledge and the accuracy is... Now: Book publishing. What's happening? People are creating My new book came out before we could publish --God bless them-- before Amazon could even touch it. We have 6 million open online college courses at the best universities. It's free! You can't win here. Unless we outlaw we've got to find and find value with it. Entire industries in the 17 years since Napster. The music industry has shrunk. Television has declined 'cause everyone's producing You're all producers Newspapers and magazines with social blogs. But thousands of Not just Google, Facebook, and But thousands of --profit and nonprofit-- they're creating the platforms, they're creating the apps, they're creating the connectivity, they're using the It's a revolution! Well, we thought And certainly we could understand how zero marginal cost would affect the virtual world, but we didn't think to the physical world. What I'm saying, with the zero marginal cost society is that firewall is broken now --it's called the Internet of Things-- We have millions of people now producing their own right now, Free! And now, and as we move to we're gonna see toward near zero in the next 20 years. Let's go back to Germany. What's happened in the 10 years since that first conversation We are now in Germany at 32% of all the electricity power is solar and wind, right now. And this is a northern country We're gonna be 35% solar and wind, by 2020-- We're gonna be 100% Absolutely! And what's interesting is the solar technology and the geothermal heat pumps-- Solar and wind are just like computers! When I was a kid there's only a few computers. They cost millions of dollars. And the chairman of IBM &quot;We probably will need &quot;Maybe seven!&quot; It was just an optimistic forecast. We did not anticipate in computer chips. Moore's law. So all of a sudden, their engineers are doubling every two years. So, even if you're making everyone's going to be connected within less than 15 to 20 years. And the cost--the fixed costs your cell phones in 20 years. Everyone's gonna produce These exponential curves You know how much $78 dollars to generate You know how much it costs Not $78 dollars; 50 cents. It's gonna be 35 cents This is really moving quick. And this is what you're not told by the energy companies. We have power and utility companies --some of them in my group, and they're quietly, right now, buying long-term 20-year contracts for solar and wind electricity quietly right now, And the Berkeley National Labs, government labs just announced they're generating I think it's somewhere between 2.8 and 3.5 cents a kilowatt hour. It's over actually for And the next big bubble is gonna be the 100 trillion in the fossil fuel industry. This is gonna make look like the small-time game. Because we're moving and then solar and wind That's what's going on right now. But what's interesting in Germany, once you pay solar panel and wind turbine-- The marginal cost of producing It's zero! The Sun has not sent us The wind hasn't invoiced us. The geothermal heat has not It's free! So what happens when to a communication internet converges with an energy internet and we digitalize so everyone can produce and either use it off-grid What happens to an energy internet where the cost of the energy Think about when they have and at each step of conversion their energy cost is near zero. How does any 2nd compete with that? And it's not big Germany only --little Denmark's done this. Anybody can do this. Who's producing all the new energy? In Germany, there are four MBW, RWE, E.On and Vattenfall --these giant, global, And, frankly, we thought What's happened to them in 10 years is what happened television, newspapers, magazine, Thousands of small players in electricity cooperatives. Farmers, small businesses, All of them went to the banks --these electricity cooperatives-- and every bank giving them the loans. Because they knew that would get a premium price when Nobody was turned down. They're creating This is power to the people --literally and figuratively-- What happened to the big 4 They're producing less than And they acknowledge Why? To their credit, to produce and distribute --fossil fuel and nuclear power, But the new energies-- They require connecting where they are You have to collect the Sun And the wind everywhere And the geothermal heat And you--We reward cooperatives and join together in networks. Big companies can't put The players come together in their own regions of cooperation, It is power to the people. Does this mean this is the end Not necessarily. Many will go out of business. About seven years ago, the EON--one of the they asked if I would debate but in a neutral country, We had a three-hour debate. you're not leaving And I said to him, &quot;Look, tomorrow morning. But you also have to be tomorrow morning, because you have a to get from the 2nd to the 3rd And I said in the new system, it operates quite differently In the new you make more money by selling I said, what you do is, you set up partnerships And you help manage the energy You help them with their big data. You help them mine You help them with their Dramatically increase In return, those thousands will share their gains back It's called We're now doing it, Last year, the chairman of Eon --took him 7 years-- they're moving to and they want to help manage parts of the energy internet EDF, the great nuclear power, We're doing of the 3rd Industrial Revolution in northern France, And EDF said, &quot;We're with you.&quot; They're on the ground They're not leaving but they see that So the companies we don't need them. It's not just Europe; now China. When President Xi came in to power Premier Li announced that he --and I was pleased-- &lt;i&gt;The Third Industrial Revolution.&lt;/i&gt; He put out a public announcement. I never even been to China. And he instructed to begin looking at these themes to move China to There mindful in China. They lost the whole They missed almost all the and came it in the tail And they said, &quot;We're not gonna &quot;We wanna collaborate with the And they said, To show you how fast they move, I've been shuttling back and forth, --it was about eleven weeks later. The chairman of the state grid, which is the largest electricity grid announced an $82 billion dollar, to digitalize the Chinese grid so the millions of Chinese people could produce their own solar and share it back That started this year, yeah. Watch Europe. Watch China. The coming together with the renewable energy internet gives rise to the automated, transportation logistics internet. We built the whole global economy around car ownership. That's what this was all about. You've thrown us a curve. Apparently you don't wanna This is Grandma and Grandpa. They got two cars cleaning and waxing them and they're never used. Or they're at the office 90% You don't wanna own cars. You want access to mobility and not ownership of So there's a problem here. The problem is in car sharing we're eliminating 15 cars. This is both the problem Larry burns was the former until a few years ago, now he's a professor So Larry just did a study He studied Ann Arbor, Michigan. We can eliminate 80% of vehicles Now let's We've got a billion cars, choking us in traffic They're the 3rd major cause The number 1 cause of global But in Europe, we're now transforming into and big data centers off carbon. Anybody know what the global warming emissions are Number 1 is buildings Number 3 is transport. --Consumption of meat We have 1.3 billion cows. They take up about 23% I love cows, is a major contributor --much more powerful than CO2-- and then, we have the fertilizers And it goes on and on. And I should say that, even some of the in the climate change debate Because they do not want and even suggest that and move down the food chain so that we can live healthy, respect our fellow creatures, and at the same time So, you never hear Never! Number 3 is transport. So, if Larry's right we're gonna eliminate probably in the next two generations because the Millennials, are never going to own cars again. This I know. And the remaining They're gonna be electric. They're gonna be fuel-cell driven. They're gonna be operated by renewable energy. This is already happening. They're gonna be 3D printed, with composite recycled materials They're gonna be driverless. This is already happening. This gets to the question of, &quot;Is this the end of the world Not necessarily. But they have to change while they're still in the selling cars, buses, and trucks. They have to move to the where they help along with all the other players. This is a very cool thing that Daimler asked me to join them-- Daimler invented the So I'm always mindful And the chairman of Daimler Trucks brought together 350 journalists asked me to come in-- I laid out the same story And then the chairman --he's one of the eight He announced that Daimler And that is logistics, And he announced that Daimler in the last three years, --300,000 vehicles, and they're on the roads now. These are what I call &quot;big data,&quot; And these trucks all across the transport corridors on traffic flows, availability of warehouses... All of the data you would need a large business, to be able to increase and productivity, and anytime you're involved in Then this is He dimed the lights live on the German Expressway. And the helicopter zooms in on the German Expressway, and then they went right into and the drivers are waving and And the chairman of &quot;Okay, gentlemen. Take your feet off the pedals.&quot; All of a sudden, the drivers No longer drivers. They were software analysts The trucks then started automated, into a mobile data, almost a train collecting data. So they're providing the data, so that you will have apps, so that you can find ways to increase your and be a player in the system. Smart! How do we finance this? CHAPTER FIVE: We are laying out a plan in Europe &quot;Smart Europe.&quot; And working with the we're building this out But the big question is, &quot;How do we pay region after region, to connect us in a digital world, where we can begin So the question came up in Brussels &quot;We've got all the money we need.&quot; Problem's not the money; it's I'll give you an example-- In Europe, we spent 741 billion equivalent US dollars One year alone. That's just a bad The problem is what we spent it on. We spent the money on an old Remember what I said and we peaked in the productivity 20 years ago at 20% ceiling, and we can't get We're stalled, which stalls the economy, stalls the smart startups, stalls the entrepreneurial expansion. So I said, if we simply spend some of it patching up --we don't want it to collapse-- but we prioritize, so part of those funds each year so that they can begin a 3rd Industrial Revolution With an we will be there in 30 years. This year, we reprioritized and, beginning in January regions across the EU leverage against private equity, and each region will like Wi-Fi, their plan region to region to region. We call it &quot;Digital Europe.&quot; We have a similar plan called across the regions of China. Where's the US here? CHAPTER SIX: TWO GENERATIONS The coming together will involve every industry: telecom, cable, ICT, transport, logistics, --all the retrofitting-- all the industries are involved. And it means work. What I'm suggesting here is that we have one last surge involving semi-skilled, unskilled We have to build out Robots aren't gonna do this. We have to take the entire energy Think of all the infrastructure and all the technology, We have to convert all of that infrastructure to distributed renewable energy. We have to retrofit That's what Because you can't install the renewable technologies That means huge jobs and for the construction Robots won't put in the insulation, and the new windows, and the doors. And then we have to install all Human beings have to and all the smart technologies and puts in the We have to take the entire which is dumb, servo mechanical, --it's 60 years old; And we have to transform to smart, digital so that we can This is gonna require and unskilled and skilled labor We have to take the entire and turn it from dumb to smart Who's going to install in all the buildings? Fuel cell outlets? This requires human beings. This means two generations of work It's financed by the payback You don't have to have huge You simply have to so energy service companies and we transform every building These nodes then connect, and they are the big data centers. They are the micro power plants. They are the transport hubs The nodes connect like Wi-Fi those buildings that's your Internet of Things. That's a huge job and you pay back You can't default on the loans. But the technology We have to change consciousness. I'm only guardedly hopeful. You know, I'm not naive; I think that what I've said But I'm guardedly hopeful because human beings are the most When we get the story right, I'm always amazed electricity grids and highways and urban centers. And I think, &quot;My God! It's amazing! When we get the story, We're a very social creature. They're coming together, --communication, energy on top of It changes the way CHAPTER SEVEN: Let me give you the best example. We've got millennial parents now on these millennial websites, where you go up and one time and you're in the system. Then you can get a toy by age category, This is creating The parent traditionally And they say to the daughter, &quot;Santa Claus &quot;We bought this toy at a store &quot;This is your property.&quot; &quot;This is not your brother's toy, &quot;This is your toy.&quot; &quot;You need to take responsibility &quot;What did mom and dad The first thing I caught is, &quot;This isn't That's pretty relevant. Now, status, power, negotiability. &quot;I'll never let unless they pay the price.&quot; They're learning possession There's nothing wrong with that. But now, on these parents are --and pretty soon they're gonna at near zero marginal cost. Now the parents are &quot;Another little child and she had a lot of fun with it and she really took good care of it 'cause she knew one day &quot;And we hope you 'cause one day another child What the child is learning now it's not status, it's not power, It's simply access to an experience then another child gets to use it. They're learning how to be where we distribute things over and over and over. Nothing goes to the landfill. I like a system where you have There's nothing wrong There's nothing wrong and some status, but it's also where part of her life access an experience in time, and I don't think capitalism but I think it's gonna find value so that it finds value with the child that gave birth And, right here in this room, in two economic systems Part of the day, You're sellers, you're buyers, you're owners, you're workers, you're producing goods for a profit in the marketplace, and you have property. But part of the day You're sharing virtual goods, social blogs, Wikipedia. And now energy and car sharing. And, while it has it's also a sharing economy And, by 2050, we will have part of the day, capitalist market, with a profit margin producing part of the day beyond the market, freely producing goods and services That's already started. That is not gonna go away. Your generation is moving from markets to networks, from consumerism to sustainability, from market capital Does this all sound familiar? It's a revolution. None of this is being taught That's why this is And there are three things that give me some guarded hope. There's a basic change going on It's strange to older people. There's a change in the way The way you define power. And the way you define community. And these changes really For my generation, freedom was very simple, To be free, is to be an autonomous agent. To be self-sufficient. To be not beholden to others. To be an island to oneself, so that one can have freedom For the millennial generation autonomy is death. Being an island to oneself Because for your generation you ask the question, &quot;How can I flourish of my possibilities And it's clear &quot;I flourish to the extent after network, after network; community after community, And those talents and come back to benefit myself. I'm free because I have access.&quot; And, for you, It's not being an autonomous agent. It's inclusivity. It's access to others in networks. Do I have this right? This is very alien to our generation. We may have to change This is a completely You have a different sensibility which makes the older generation We essentially believe that power It goes from the top down. There's no other way It's a pyramid But young people It's strange because you grew up with the networks For you, power is not vertical; For you, power is being a mesh where you benefit each other. Open source. This is so strange We do not have It makes no sense to us, actually. But it makes total sense to you. And, finally, we're seeing a change in the way a younger generation perceives I grew up in a post Westphalian We were very clear on community. That is, each individual is born and we're each sovereign. We are each a sovereign And each of us We compete with in the marketplace, for scarce resources, Our nations represent us And they represent all the who are sovereigns And each nation then competes for scarce resources in the in a zero-sum game. That's the post Westphalia Here's my question: Does anyone here believe that we're gonna be able to address climate change and and take our responsibility in the Earth we live in Anybody? What we're beginning to see --and I don't wanna but I'm beginning to sense a shift from geopolitics Just beginning to see it. I hope it doesn't go away. The biosphere is that 19 km where all life interact to maintain the biology of the Earth. We're getting 14-year olds with biosphere consciousness. They're becoming We got young people coming home &quot;Why are you using so much water &quot;Can't we turn it off &quot;We're wasting the water.&quot; They're saying to their parents, &quot;Why is the little red light &quot;We haven't been in that room Wasting electricity... They're saying to their parents, &quot;Why are there two cars &quot;Why can't we at least They're saying to their parents, And this is the one It brings a smile to me. We actually have young people and, at dinnertime, where the hamburger came from Yes, I'm sure some of you They're saying, come from a rain forest?&quot; &quot;Did they have to destroy the trees which only gives you so that that cow And when those trees are destroyed to graze the cow for the hamburger, the kids are --the high school kids-- that those trees harbor rare that only live in those canopies. And then they connect the dots. If the trees disappear for the soil to graze the cow those trees are not there to absorb And that means the So then, a mother cannot feed because she's getting summer droughts, and wildfires These kids are learning Junior high school. And they're coming home. They're beginning to understand all day long, intimately affects some other creature, and the planet we live in. This is so alien to the way You're beginning to &quot;We live in an indivisible there's no escape.&quot; &quot;This isn't just academic: on the well-being of the whole We have young people their empathic concern because you're all skyping Heck--a billion of you on Facebook. That's the largest fictional family And what's promising to me is also beginning to Not just the polar bears but all of our fellow creatures. my wife and I are into animal rights Our fellow creatures We do not have a right This is their planet, So I think we're beginning to see How we perceive power, We're heading to a biosphere frame. This is all good. Let me be clear on why I'm terrified about climate change. I began working on energy issues-- And wrote a book, &quot;Entropy I thought we had more time. I did not anticipate We couldn't even see them and then each feedback on an exponential curve. We thought linear. Now we're really scared. I'm gonna tell you, 'Cause now we're in a runaway on the water cycles. The fortunate thing is, new infrastructure paradigm That can allow us in three decades. We have the technology zero marginal cost for reducing ecological footprint. If people equipped are constantly finding to increase at whatever value chain they're in, it means we're using and getting more out of it. In other words, more gets into the product, Then, if what we do produce --share the cars, share the homes we're distributing a Nothing needs to go Every resource is If we move to the energy internet, everyone on this planet their own green electricity, at very low cost on this exponential curve, and sharing across And if we go to a car sharing, we can eliminate that have taken to put online. This is a plan a lot of businesses are working and we say to people, step forward and tell us to address climate change And I always get silence. 'Cause the only other plan and that's taking us and an environmental abyss. But here's what I'd like to do: I'm gonna turn it over to you. Let's think about your sensibilities and find out if we can on how we can begin to move this out to all the larger communities Is that a deal? Who wants to start? Hello, my name is Lena. And my question will be related to What is your take on that? We are moving to There's no doubt about it. However, as I said during the talk, we've got two generations of that's clear, That's gonna require We know this on the ground in Europe right now. It's a huge amount of jobs. Robots can't do it. This is infrastructure shift. However, as this smart digital it can be run by very small with analytics, big data, --that's why we call it &quot;smart economy.&quot; Then, what do we do and it's automated, We're not gonna pay people We already know And that is, as we continue to automate employment is shifting to and the sharing economy The nonprofit sector employment sector right now It's about 9.5, 10% of the paid employments and nonprofit. Why is it heading there? Because, in the social economy, and large sections social capital is as important And, in this realm --the nonprofit realm, the sharing economy-- it requires human beings Machines aren't only supplemental. We will never have a robot raising a child and interacting to develop their brain. They may bring the lunch to the kid but it's gonna require human beings And whether it's and the knowledge industries, humans with humans. The only other question is, how does this sector Johns Hopkins University does a study of nonprofits And guess what they found: Over half the income for nonprofits which are one of the comes with fees for services. If you're doing health research, You get fees for services and then you can continue If we get any we automate the market, we move to social capital where we can use our minds so we can learn to live and steward each other steward the Earth. That's a much more noble mission. I believe that in order to we also need to look at Yeah, I'm in agreement with you. You know, and I have to say, --I'm gonna step on more toes. The academic disciplines in It's dysfunctional. We have an internet generation in terms of their mind and another inside the classroom. In the classroom, for example, the first thing we realize is the classroom looks a little bit These big, giant institutions. And the kid comes in there --a little boy or girl-- and they immediately realize there's a central authority they have to be silent, if they share knowledge it's called cheating, And they learn that but only in the sense of being to follow orders and of the Industrial Revolution. Yet, an internet generation You're all sharing knowledge. The whole point of the Internet is open-source, and begin to crowdsource the That is so different than So let me say one thing about this. You know what we're doing All 7 universities and 200 high schools, and the universities are led by Here's what they've done: all faculty now teach you learn various perspectives and there's more than one way and you have to No silence. Secondly, all the students now in teams, and the students have to The teacher becomes but the students have to If they share knowledge, Then they learn that and something one possesses Knowledge is the shared experience And the learning now is clinical. What's the good of learning if theory isn't So their learning is clinical. They've taken service-learning, and they've elevated to pedagogy. So whatever you're learning, you have to apply it in the neighborhoods How do you like that? Catholic University of Lille. That's the revolution. I believe in the Darwinian theory of humanity being What would you do about Let me be very clear: If you read my books, I don't like utopias. Our human spirit, is designed to show compassion --our precarious existence. An empathic world is Utopias are There's no mortality, there's no pain, and every moment is perfect. There's no such world. I looked through history the most civilized societies are the ones that can And there's a history of that, So I like an empathic world where we understand we show compassion with we reach out to each other And when someone that we know We do this with our fellow It's the empathy that runs And I think George Frederick Hegel He wrote a little passage He said, &quot;Happiness are because they are I thought, &quot;What does that mean?&quot; Over and over Well, he's right because, and you read their view of history, you think we're pretty because historians always chronicle the mayhem, the redress of because those moments They imprint a stamp on us, because they're so extraordinary But when you then chronicle a series of these very very you get a pretty dire picture Happiness of the where most of us, as we evolve our empathic concerns our day-to-day life is in some ways to help, to provide our compassion. It's not the few I'll give you an example: You never hear about There are banking cooperatives, and agricultural cooperatives In some countries They're the social housing. It's never mentioned because it's a different form. It's people coming together This is the true sharing economy: And that's why for the new sharing economy. But they're never mentioned. Societies that are able to nurture that are in our neural circuitry are the ones that don't have the secondary drives, which are brutality, and corruption, and all So I have a little bit of the evolution What I'm suggesting is biosphere consciousness. As we begin to see climate change and there's nowhere to escape, we begin to realize And so we're getting beginning to empathize with our fellow human beings in one biosphere. This is a hopeful narrative with all the So I hope you leave At least I believe that is to overcome, and to empathize until we see ourselves as part I'm Tony. I think you might be with these new corporate agreements TPP, TTIPS and so on. But they do seem to contain put corporations that are --over elected governments. Well, let me give you There's another kind of with very different politics. President Xi and Premier Li &quot;Belt One...&quot; &quot;Belt One Road&quot; This is a very different initiative the US trying to isolate with its specific agreements; And the belt road initiative resurrecting the old Silk Road, But it requires a Originally it was designed the hinterlands, crossing and The Mediterranean, a route around the southern edge, But then it quickly Wait a minute! the Internet of Things platform, 3rd Industrial Revolution, It not only will be in the EU, in the Mediterranean. That's a billion people market: 500 million in the Union, 500 million in in the Mediterranean China has a similar plan that It's identical, called So the conversation quickly Europe is China's China is Europe's How about a belt road initiative That's now in deep conversation, but it requires No one can control the Internet of Things platforms because it's designed that's the resiliency And so that, if anyone power or any nation you know, is going to you can't do it And I think all And in my dealings they're aware that It requires collaboration. You gotta share best practices. You gotta share You gotta get over the suspicion-- Everyone benefits in a network. That's the--it's not geopolitics. It isn't, &quot;We control. We close. It doesn't work in You have to have it borderless. It has to allow you ability to go off and on and have block chains. So, I think this belt Road initiative it may not just be for Eurasia. This may be a vision that would be, a vision that could move from Canada and the United States then you have really a distributed biosphere infrastructure revolution, not a traditional And, therefore, it requires because everyone's a player. My name is Denille. and what you've been talking about in industrialized countries, You know how much energy About a third of their cost The fertilizers; The pesticides; The machinery; The packaging, the plastics; The water that they the electricity grids; run by to move the water. So, if you wanna it is a huge player. The fertilizers which are much more potent You know that 40%--I believe it is-- of the land that's used is to grow feed for animals? It takes at least 8 pounds of feed That makes the transport industry It's the most inefficient system If you look at pure injustice, you'd have to say the shift and a chemical farming culture is one of the great injustices Some of us live high up the rest are denied We got to turn that around so, in Europe, we are interested We're interested in moving from to ecological agriculture, where we learn to live with and we find ways to encourage to be able to be compatible In the old chemical world, Everything surrounding your crops So we live in a chemical wasteland with runoff poisoning our water. It sounds shameful. So we wanna move We had mechanical agriculture It started late We had chemical agriculture We need to have smart, organic, in the 3rd Industrial Revolution, and we have to bring back that supports local communities. It's absurd to ship Ridiculous! Hi, I'm Rochelle. I was wondering if you could talk And how water plays into this How the privatization of water I was just hoping There's only a small amount that's available for human reuse. Less than 1%; There is a deep nexus between that's never, just never explained. You have to have energy And that is that 8% of all the --power-- treating water, moving it and recycling the waste. But you need water This isn't well known. And, that is, Over half of all the water we use Of all industries, over half. And this will surprise you: In France, you know how much for cooling off nuclear reactors Almost 50% of all the goes to cooling Yeah, and when the So it's dehydrating ecosystems for their agriculture. And now, sometimes because of climate change they can't even use it and they have to So what's the nexus? We have to begin to create so that people get control in a distributed system that I'll give you an example of why: If the electricity grid is disrupted big electricity transformers, cyber terrorism, goes down and your power goes down-- We're dead in three weeks. That's why we have by keeping it so distributed. So what do we do? I'm in Hauts-de-France This little startup-- They've taken a whole huge housing complex. They took the whole roof Why did they do that? Because the water falls, it generates electricity So they're using for electricity, &quot;Use it as a cistern.&quot; So if the power grid goes out you're dead in a couple of weeks. You have the water right built-in on the roofs or nearby, And then that water can be used, And then we're now talking With housing, use it for your toilet water, and you will be able to recycle it So you can go distributed when the real power grid goes out. They key to maintaining this system If anything happens you can go off. Well distributed and decentralized, share your energy. So water and energy go together, --and I'm glad you said this-- something that has really come to How do we create a to go side-by-side Very cool thinking. My name is Elizabeth and for underdeveloped countries. How do they play a part in this Can they sort of skip the gun, because they don't have Yeah, you just answered Very good! just what you said. What we finally realized is their liability is their key asset. Their liability is: That's their asset. Because, it's easy to build with new codes and regulations than to take an old infrastructure with old codes and regulations So what we're learning is this can move more quickly. We saw the opportunity can leapfrog right past the 1st and 2nd So the United Nations 3rd Industrial Revolution narrative that we've just The biggest problem No electricity. Ban Ki-moon has made this We got a billion people They're in the dark. We have 40% of the human race not reliable electricity. And what keeps women It's no electricity. And what we see in these patriarchal, and male-oriented cultures? Because, with no electricity, the children of the slaves, that can actually We forget the relationship freeing women in the West. Women were the slaves until electricity came in. Electricity freed women to go to school and then electricity that didn't require Electricity revolution created And, when that happened, as women became more educated and had the new skills Fewer babies. You can give out it'll make no difference, until you bring electricity free the women, and have them be recognized And what's interesting these micro grids--a lot of it. So, you see it in rural Africa, --it's happening in India, too-- They come in, they lease They give you a lease, and This is happening all across rural But instead of a big centralized grid and you create micro grids This is going to take off This is the smart social entrepreneurs This is why I'm really pleased It brings confidence I'm Ray, and I've been thinking how do we overcome monopoly? We have to worry about Now, I'm gonna be honest with you: It is the magic box! I'm now so lazy that especially in my age, It is a great research engine. when everybody needs Google, and it's our window it starts to look like and it starts to look like What did we do that had a product line that everybody needed it, What did we do in with the telephone industry? We, in America-- the government but in America we kept them but we regulated them as utilities. And we did this across the many of the power utilities. I think it's naive to believe The Millennials and your children-- You're gonna be asking the question: How do we get the best but they have to be regulated so that we all we all ensure that we have some control may be through block chains, and that we're able Facebook? Same thing. When the whole human family to communicate with each other, but it looks like a public good, And we're gonna have to have to regulate them. This is the politics of your generation. This is the politics of the new Hi, I'm Carlin. In the words how do we make America great again? Let me say something President Obama He spent billions and billions for a green economy, Why did this happen? Because the mentality is all we need to do is 'cause we want a million Steve Jobs. So, what happened would incentivize, give a battery factory over there... But you can't start with that. You have to start with incentivizing which requires everybody Now, he made during his second which got to the heart of it. You may recall that and he made an offhanded comment Remember this comment? And they went they went nuts. He was referring to infrastructure, and he was trying to say Then you can create The problem is, they went viral &quot;No, we create America! We've actually so that we actually have no idea how businesses feed off from public-private partnerships: government, industry, Who do they think so that we could train Private businesses didn't do that. Who laid out the interstate highways You think private businesses will with no lights from coast-to-coast? Who under wrote all the pipelines the gas and On and on and on... The fact is that most of the research was government-funded research; But we've so dummy down that half the country or more the government to do anything-- This is the failure of the USA. We do not have a Europe does; But, in America, that it's just Let the companies rule, This is our death now. Because, if we can't work together with business, civil society, to lay out this platform and create the regulations codes then the new businesses come, So what I'm saying is, And your millennial generation, it's up to you now to bring this back into the dialogue. We need government, we need the civil society, we need public capital, and we need social capital. All three equal players So, here's I know you get frustrated &quot;My Gosh, it's going too slow!&quot; But now's the time We all have to We've got one generation to lay down this new consciousness, Your responsibility to carry this on is the weight that I don't know of where one generation was And, if you believe this is actually the responsibility We now have, I think, It's gonna be up to This is the digital revolution. You are the digital revolution. It seems to me, is ready to create this it helps us create peace between and the balance for the planet. And what you have to do is in the virtual world, on the ground, in the communities, both in the infrastructure and the social engagement. You got to make this happen. I'll give you one little mission: How long is it gonna take to prepare a bill of particulars human responsibilities our fellow creatures And then you have in a cohort in Facebook, then you're at the table. You're at the table, and then a billion people strong, you should be able to do this This doesn't take Then you're at the table, You're at the table who would purloined You're at the table --they want to drag us back Come to the table. Pass on this legacy, so when your grandchildren you did the right thing: You helped replenish the planet, got us off carbon, helped show our proper respect including our fellow creatures. Thank you. Good night. Join us. --Hi. I study Design and Technology. --You're at Parsons? But, like, a lot of people and who, like, We're getting purchased out, and... --Yeah. everyone doesn't have Like, the people who really care, like, they're going and they're going to end up and they're gonna feel like Yeah, I understand... You know, as you get older Life goes really quickly. And, if one doesn't have you're not gonna have it at 50. And, this time, close to the mission and pass it on to the kids. And I understand how Hi! Thanks for coming. Thank you so much for this --My pleasure. on how to get more involved Brooklyn's ideal. Absolutely! This is where I 100% agree with you. I interviewed like 30 people including Global Dryden, I'm only guardedly hopeful It's called &quot;the Millennials.&quot; Millennial generation more ecological oriented, As Thomas Paine said, &quot;Every generation must recreate The digital generation; You don't need to look back Look to the future of --Hi! How are you? Thanks for coming. So, zero marginal cost is possible --Yeah. Well, you have, you know-- They do nonprofit, it's tough, but they make it Or you look at Blah Blah Car Etsy. They've done it with Look at Patagonia-- And they say-- that passed legislation now saying, &quot;Look, if you're a benefit company, profits don't have to be therefore you won't risk So there's a lot of stuff moving, So are you-- Take some risk. That's what I'm saying.