- [Narrator] In the spring of 1799, a reindeer herder in Siberia notices a strange dark mass melting out of an icy river bank. The next summer, he returns. More of the mass is visible, but not enough to tell what it is. The third year, something After another two years, the and revealed what was trapped inside. A wooly mammoth. 20 feet long, 11 feet tall, perfectly preserved in the ice. He harvests the tusks and sells them to a merchant from Yakutsk. This town has become one of Russia's most important trade hubs. With the empire growing, expeditions are pushing looking for new resources to trade. And they found one. They're encountering from animals they've never seen before. Walruses, narwhals, and elephants. But elephants can't live in Siberia. So how's that possible? The Siberians harvesting these tusks say they come from an animal and dies if it reaches the surface. But scholars in Enlightenment Europe have plenty of theories of their own. These are the horns of They're usually found by the water, so they must come from a sea monster. A flood washed elephants and into Siberia. Elephants used to be adapted to the cold. Siberia used to be tropical. Some saw mammoth skulls and assumed it was a cyclops. The Russian Empire is also including Mikhail Adams. He's in Yakutsk collecting plant samples when a merchant tells him about a mammoth found further north. He arranges a last minute expedition and travels more than 1000 kilometers, reaching the mammoth three months later. It's been scavenged, missing a leg, most organs, the trunk, but most of the skin and the mammoth still has fur, two layers of thick insulating fur. He grabs what's left, loading to be taken back to St. Petersburg. A decade earlier, French had proposed a controversial explanation for elephants in Siberia, comparing elephant and mammoth skeletons to show that these were and that mammoths were gone. The first significant proof that a species could go extinct at all. This Siberian mammoth with showed that mammoths That Cuvier was right. In the following decades, Siberian mammoths would help to fuel the first Ice Age theories, Darwin's theories on natural selection, and the development of The mammoth is central to some of the most important scientific discoveries. And here it was. Not bones, not legends, but the whole thing quite I want to explore this concept. Ice as a geological archive. So I started reading about these time capsules that are now emerging, and I reached out to a team of scientists who have been tracking for the past 40 years. What I found is that the ice is nothing short of a geological memory and we're losing those If you've seen a few of my videos, chances are you've seen Eric Matt. We've been traveling and for the last few years, and Eric shot this entire video. All the footage you see of the scientists, that's all him and he crushed it. This video is gorgeous. I He's an incredible He's building a nonprofit. The man is a gem, so show him some support and enjoy the beautiful images - [Eric] So what is the - So we're gonna be working on the Daniel and Lynch glacier. The Daniel is really the last watershed up here. Then the Lynch glacier is one of the remaining glaciers in the Skykomish River So we go up there and we measure the actual amount of melt and snow accumulation on the glacier, so we can give you an annual number. Just like going to the doctor. You know, you stand on the weight scale and you get your blood pressure. That's what we're doing for the glacier. You can map that over time and watch how that changes and it gives you an annual climate record. Both glaciers were They're both pretty steep glaciers, so probably our biggest challenges isn't doing the measurements, but just navigating the glaciers. Yeah, the going up this Yeah, it's been interesting over the years how much more difficult it Snow just fills in stuff. It fills in all the gorges, covers up a lot of rough topography. Obviously a lot of loose Instead of putting our crampons right here and just zip it across those slopes over to the glacier, which We've gotta descend every rock rib and then go across all this loose rock, try to get back onto the ice, So in general, climbing as the glaciers disappear. Crampons. Your point. Use that ice axe with some force. Self-arrest on ice once So your best tactic is When I started this project in 1984, I anticipated doing it for 50 years and that some of the The difficulty of reaching as they shrink is not something because you could think, &quot;All but in fact they get a lot steeper. I guess the other surprising thing is that I had the chance to work for 16 years in a row, and I didn't really anticipate - Growing up, me and my if we wanted to come help out, once we were strong enough to come join. Definitely at the beginning, was just kind of along for the ride, a little overwhelmed, but and you know, it evolved where now we co-direct At the beginning I think it was just like loving the opportunity to come out, to spend that time with my dad, to be in these places and but then it evolved to wanting to create something more from because science, it's hard to have science that is 40 years going. - [Narrator] Glaciers form when snow accumulates year over year. Their structure reflects that, with the youngest ice on top and the oldest ice on the bottom. Each layer of snow accumulation is essentially a time trapping gases, dust, that provide a sample of at that point in the past. Scientists can retrieve and by drilling ice cores, long tube-shaped samples of the ice. In Greenland and Antarctica, where the ice sheets are ice cores yielded geological records stretching back hundreds They preserve ash and gas smelting of lead during the Iron Age, radioactivity from nuclear testing and the Chernobyl disaster. And most importantly, they into the history of the Earth's climate. Artifacts frozen in ice provide new opportunities but the data within the ice is different. As the ice melts, this knowledge - [Jill] We're going up to just checking out how it's You know, we declared it it's kind of just And so we'll kind of check out how that remnant snow and ice And yeah, it's a familiar spot And so it's really getting - [Eric] Why are you so and why is it that you have chosen to dedicate your life to them? - [Mauri] Most things are but glaciers change a just in terms of did they have Was there a big avalanche? Did a new lake form? Whatever. You feel a bit like you're traveling across terrain that You have an expectation that the glaciers aren't gonna be the same the next year. And so that is what you expect. The only weird part is when a It doesn't do it overnight, but it is striking. When I first came up here in the 1980s, I'd always ski from this spot We had to do our measurements so we had to come up hey, you might as well So turn away on down to the glacier. And right now it looks and I can assure you it wasn't. - [Eric] Were there any years that things changed significantly - The last two. I mean, it went from... It lost half of its area. Usually glaciers retrieve by percentage. It lost five, 10, 20% at the most. But when you talk about a in two years, that's an amazing rate. - [Jill] This water is part of supplying a lot of eastern Washington, which is where a lot of the and wineries and all of that. So it's not gonna be good. - [Eric] How has that been behind everything? Or like your inspiration to - Uh, it's a mixture. You know, I think it spurs to keep documenting it, and crushes you at the same time. (stream running) People... You know, to relate, your favorite campground, your favorite waterfall, and you just watch it disappear and it's gone and that place is lost. And if it was where you took your family every year for 40 years or whatever, where your grandparents took you and somebody who that spot was special to and be hurt by that. (gentle music) - [Narrator] In 2011, on a archeologists find something strange melting out of an ice patch. A wool tunic worn 1700 years ago. Over the next decade, finding more than 1000 artifacts More clothing, tools, cookware, a dog with a collar and Notably, the artifacts include hundreds of horse bones, Indications that researchers have found what some refer to as a viking highway, an important route used to These artifacts preserved in the ice paint a picture of how the Not just their migration route, but how they responded to Its earliest use, right around 300 CE, coincides with a population It's busiest around 1000 CE, a time of expanding populations, And it dries up in the 1300s, around the start of the little Today this pass has become a key site for a new field called glacial archeology. Rather than digging, researchers search the edges And they're on the clock. As soon as these artifacts they'll start to decompose. If no one finds them, Melting ice has revealed Alaska, Siberia, the Alps. The mountain pass in Switzerland has revealed a similar travel route with artifacts dating back And chances are you're a 5,000-year-old mummy stunningly preserved by a glacier and offering further insights into the ways humans of the past have moved through the mountains. - [Eric] Whenever you're ready. (wind blowing) Nice. Look at him go. - [Mauri] The changes are everywhere, as we hike into the glaciers too. One of the advantages of is we have to hike all So you see changes in plants We see changes in the lakes, changes in the streams and then the glaciers themselves. You know, the glacier that has lost 90% of its area. The stream itself is barely a A nice flow in August and then downstream, obviously that's gonna have effects. Just the whole landscape is changing. - [Narrator] In 2012, find an entire forest Tree stumps more than 2000 years old still upright with intact providing a record of this forest's past before it was buried under the ice. More than 1000 years ago, Rocky debris at the edge of the ice surrounded and stabilized locking them in place Around the same time, researchers on Canada's Ellesmere Island make a similar but smaller discovery. Moss growing out of a retreating glacier. The moss had been frozen in the but as the glacier retreats, it's being exposed to air and sunlight and has started to grow again And in 2019, researchers in Greenland along the edge of a melting glacier, a well-preserved section of soil containing the remains of waterlilies, beetles, midges, and even a new extinct plant species previously unknown to science. It paints a picture of a very different from the Arctic today. A boreal forest with bogs and lakes. The sample was dated to more than 2 million years ago. But the wildest example of can be found right here - [Mauri] I mean ice worms are just... They look like black threads that are half inch to one inch long. They live on glaciers only. They don't like sunlight, so during the day they'll On the surface of the ice, we'll see some in like They can lay out as long as So one thing we've done is measure the stream flow right here. Everything you see here, as it melts, it's coming right and we'll measure the and get the discharge through here. If we look at how much we get versus the flow we had here 40 years ago, it's less than 30%. Every aquatic organism will be influenced by it. This goes into the Cle Elum River. The next glacier over goes So cumulative is Cle all the way to Cle Elum Reservoir. We're mapping the surface So we go up at 50 meter intervals, we have a laser ranger vertical distance, angle. So you do that every year and you get a little line that shows you where the surface of the glaciers and the next year you do it, the lines down here and down there. In she goes. - [Jill] We're exploring this ice cave feature that's in the former Ice Worm Glacier. So it's one cool thing about and it's also just good to explore. The crazy stuff like this that happens, it's just really melting out kind of near the top of So we're checking it out safely. We're just kind of learning about what does happen when a glacier disappears because I think that's not a story that most people have seen until now. Sometimes just going to explore something and take note of it and photograph it and learn about it is just as important as kind of the hard science - [Eric] Why was it that - [Mauri] I was trying to think of what niche wasn't being The National Academy of nobody was monitoring multiple glaciers across an entire mountain range. And at the time, the US Geologic Survey was the only place that could do it, but they were undergoing You realize that, &quot;All right, and that's always a good (enchanting music) - I stayed dry going - [Narrator] Reading about I started to wonder if mysteries that haven't been solved with answers still locked in the ice. One story immediately came to mind. In 1921, a team of to make a first ascent of They mapped the surrounding terrain, scouted potential roots, Porters carried heavy gear used to capture and even develop images These photos were intended to but they were also some of the first images The team used these images and finance more expeditions, returning to next year to set and in 1924, to make a On the morning of June 6th, climbers George Mallory and Sandy Irvine left high camp aiming for the summit. Irvine carried a camera photographing Mallory at the top. Two days later, they were briefly spotted about 800 feet below the summit before disappearing into the clouds. They never came back. 29 years later, Tenzing successfully reached the summit. No one knows if Mallory and In the centuries since, Irvine's ice axe, alleged sightings of their and even Mallory's remains, But the smoking gun, Irvine's remains, the camera in his pocket, and the undeveloped film But two weeks ago, right a National Geographic expedition found something melting out A shoe and a sock. A sock with a label. Not a body or a camera, but a huge clue to where they might be. 100 years later, the is still one of exploration's It shows how a moment can both by ice and by an image. - [Mauri] So we started our and then in the 25th year, my And after her first year, I talked to her about, you know, the data that we're collecting isn't really effectively in like a table. Her challenge was to figure - [Jill] I think that a lot of people feel disconnected to data, kind of picturing what that Like even if they see a graph and understand like a glacier is changing, that's not the same. I think it's that emotional that people can connect to and what you can show just with like the beauty of the visuals in art. My paintings that I do like I'm are definitely capturing and they're ways for me and observe things about the landscape and I can share the of Ice Worm Glacier. It was all bare ice basically last year. Maybe a tiny bit of old snow at the top. This one from last year was All blue ice on the lower part where there should be snow. Big icefall. These two waterfalls, the ice was covering And all the dark brown is like all this crappy mud and rocks that is making it hard - [Eric] What is it about that drew you to it? - [Emma] These guys are and so much more than a resource, a fleeting source of inspiration. I think the sort of ephemeral is what brings us all here. Today, here at Ice Worm. I've painted the ice worm itself and this melt pond situation. In this piece, I'm like I did in previous pieces here to chart where the glacier has been. So 1984, went to the far What other years were If I was gonna put... Every place I depict is a place I think I've always had and tried to use my art practice as a way to capture different places, different moments in time (gentle music) - [Narrator] If ice is art is a cultural one. Mauri and Jill are and bringing attention to the present and future of these glaciers, but they're also building an archive. A way to look back in time and see these places after they're gone and to know that they Ice has solved our mysteries, it's told our story. The ice remembers us. And thanks to people like Mauri and Jill, people who've dedicated their I think we can return the favor. I think we can remember. (gentle music continues) - [Eric] What do you think, Jill? - I'm so excited we got We had a tough time getting here, but it was really worth it. And going onto the Lynch So I'm feeling really happy now. - [Eric] How about you, Mauri? - We got to the Daniels, we Who knows if we'll be able but we got 'em this year. And we'll learn. We'll try a different route down and see if that's the (indistinct chatter) - [Eric] What's it been like for you to grow such a strong over a shared passion? (gentle music) - [Mauri] In science, but just in life, collaborations are really beneficial a strong collaboration just advances what you're trying to do so much. We're out here collecting data every day, but probably the things are those moments when you see somebody that you're working or just a moment of And so the collaborations we have when people really can and use it to make a step that's also a really (gentle music continues)