I've always had an affinity for Pokemon but it's probably one of the most common gaming I've enjoyed (most of) the main games thoroughly, be more than it was, that it wasn't quite as there was "something" missing, though I could I wanted what the Mario RPGs were to their 2D dived deeper into the world and characters to say that I love the Mario universe as much This desire led me to the Pokemon series' games. What I saw was promising. A Pokemon game could play as the Pokemon themselves? How the Mystery Dungeon games were very I tried was Gates to Infinity, which I even though I'd made it about two-thirds I distinctly remembered thinking the game was far I would go on to try Explorers of Time, which never touching it again. Not entirely sure So it's safe to say my first few ventures with frustrated: I'd heard so many people sing they were plain better than the main games. but it always felt like the gameplay was of it. The promise of "infinite" dungeons felt all that unique to begin with. So what was I find the answer to this question, I reluctantly Super Mystery Dungeon at the end of 2015. And, Everything just clicked into place. I the game was extremely charming, and I even much more than before. I enjoyed Super Mystery about a month's time, which if you've played the it wasn't the case that Super was just far and I'd played. I eventually returned to Gates for a liking it. When Rescue Team DX came out in 2020, the entire thing. And no, I still haven't gotten I know). Regardless, it was pretty clear to Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. They were just... clearly So what exactly happened here? Why did Super enjoyment of the sub-series? As I'll attempt I think it's because the Mystery Dungeon games, appeal of the series in a way even the main only become more clear to me the more generations Super Mystery Dungeon feels like the last Super begins on a curious note. In we're often shuffled into the main locale a rescue team or building a Pokemon paradise. human-turned-Pokemon transformation means in the we essentially get along like any other Pokemon. we're not just any old human-turned-Pokemon, we're an adult, they need strict scheduling, The game gets a lot of mileage out of this us going on extraordinary adventures, but us In line with an average school day, this first hours. That's a pretty bold maneuver, to spend a something so definitely not advertised. And while they're certainly nowhere near as committed to adventure by saying goodbye to your mom, but by little would change about how people respond to Scarlet and Violet also utilizes a school as a relatively muted. It doesn't take long to rush and after that, it's business as usual. That's more than a token gesture, the game seems be a kid in this universe, and the story and The first seven hours of Super Mystery Dungeon something strangely compelling. Why is the Pokemon obviously, many of the creatures themselves are more to it than that. It also has to do with the Fundamentally, the franchise takes place in a people still do the things we expect people would version. The technology of the times seems to full-blown science fiction; there doesn't seem world powers don't seem to be in agitation, and Pokemon, by and large, presents a utopia without look pretty similar to the lives of most people in also want to be your friend. This is the key to popular fantasy and science-fiction settings, were the world of Pokemon, you'd almost certainly In many ways though, it seems the franchise has decision to focus so singly on Pokemon battling setting. Were you to ask the average person say, Unova, instead of the United States, they want to become a gym leader, or even a trainer. themselves doing significantly less remarkable Saturday morning next to their favorite Pokemon, looking routes, or playing a game of basketball is exactly as simple as I've already described it: the ultimate self-insert fantasy of the Pokemon themselves are marginalized This begins to explain why recent efforts received. It's a show that gets away from most of the franchise. The premise of imagine what it would be like to spend Pokemon in it. That's appealing because "slice-of-life" attitude the franchise While spin-off titles tend to fill in some they too have a tendency to become single-minded. a school setting in its opening hours, but it designated as a "Ranger School," where students the Pokemon they want to catch. Even Pokemon paradigmatic catching and battling that defines its locales do offer a more interesting, holistic the world still seems to revolve around that by this metric, seems to fare the best. While on joining a rescue team or guild, by the time of partner doesn't even mention joining a team, they Post Town don't seem all that interested in these world beyond just teams and mystery dungeons. But Super, even more so than prior Mystery Dungeons, actually seems to understand the assignment. In the central mechanic that comprises the gameplay. to be part of an expedition team, it's where writing, and arithmetic. Sure, we do spend a but this is just an artifact of what these field trips are contextualized within even close to the whole picture. Indeed, being in the Expedition Society in opposition to none of our classmates ever expresses an ambition partner's enthusiasm about this is often a source that our leaving to join the Expedition Society Super emphasizes that jaunting through mystery are obsessed with doing; joining the Expedition It goes much further than this. Super time emphasizing the activities of the community concerned with little more than the day-to-day are notably mundane. We deal with schoolyard we get chewed out for sneaking out of our like ghosts appearing near the school, turn The Connection Orb that Ampharos gives us usage in the game is for Pokemon around the it almost acts as the Pokemon's precursor to with each other over vast distances. It's even no discernable reason. The idea of a Pokemon As I've said before, Super Mystery Dungeon isn't outside of its central mechanics. But when it taps into the same appeal that it is a game where the Pokemon are completely incidental to everything around story exactly like Super Mystery Dungeon make them all humans instead. It would lose would still work. It is the difference between a Make no mistake, though: these preoccupations Town is just as interested in its community. a bunch of Pokemon will be doing something new some days it'll be yoga; all the while, a Relentlessly adorable may be a better way to leaves for a trip, we're invited to spend the to be alone. After getting caught sneaking out, cleaning their room. The Expedition Society is ranks. As such, they take extra care to make sure our first mission outside of the Water Continent. Archen finance the seafare, on account of money concerned with. When Archen realizes he bought for "ruining [our] first big trip". Later, on the to ask him to keep us safe on account of him being like this. I cannot emphasize enough how much to the game as a whole. It's the kind of detail the same kind of small mundanity that So we're already seeing why Super Mystery previous Mystery Dungeon games did not. But, it's the self-appointed "super" Mystery or legitimate self-reflection? I'm Super Mystery Dungeon is clearly cognizant to Infinity lacked many features people had come personality quiz to determine which Pokemon you from having fewer floors, to the removal of recruitable Pokemon went from all the less than the number of Pokemon from to be representing. Much like its final Super Mystery Dungeon deals with all but you can easily choose between every starter Riolu); every single Pokemon is now available for is back. Actually exploring dungeons is perhaps the new looplet and emera mechanic that allows for But Super also seems to respond to Gates' had a tendency to be extremely saccharine, this kind of character fits the overall narrative in contrast to the more cynical Pokemon around grating that kind of personality can become. The airheaded, an unabashed dreamer who crashes the game is ultimately sympathetic towards the game where the player expresses joy in how "it's scene, the Partner straight up asks if you think the player will tell them that they are in fact by avoiding you because "I wouldn't want to scenes like this are refreshingly self-aware. kids would go angst over on the playground. The friend, and that's the kind of high-stakes These summaries don't really do the at considering prior games' issues, farcical degree. Super Mystery Dungeon is very Ever since Pokemon Gold and Silver, the idea captured the minds of the fanbase. It's not hard in one game seemed like an incredible bounty, as fantasies tend to, eventually ballooned ultimate Pokemon experience: a single game that a project are too daunting to even consider, but tackle such an impossible project. While Super eventually allows travel across the complete requests. Each continent is ostensibly may be. You'll constantly run into minor Pokemon games. Super is by far the most expansive contains a little bit of each game prior. While what including an entire region would entail, the franchise to get as close as is realistically The most famous slogan over the course of 'em all!" This has remained the most well-known decades ago. The slogan has become something there are over 1,000 Pokemon in existence, the less wieldy, and increasingly more difficult to all your Pokemon in one game has vanished, will never really be possible again. Of course, even before Generation 8, with many Pokemon exclusivities. Most people have never really had Which is what makes Super Mystery Dungeon all Pokemon, the total number of Pokemon from the literally every single Pokemon was in this game. need to worry about missable events or peripheral recruiting them isn't a game of trial and error, has a dedicated method for recruitment, from chat in town. The effect is that no game in the creatures this inviting and achievable before (or a Pokemon for a dungeon is significantly less the kind of trade-off that makes a feat like been accomplished. Super Mystery Dungeon is one of the last games that was able to fulfill Super is also the game which introduced the Dungeon formula, after its introduction the Mystery Dungeon series, unlike the rest of after the fact. While people begged for Megas the mechanic was actually added to the Rescue had completely lost interest. In hindsight, feverish fanservice game, as if they somehow fans would be ranting about years from now. We like Super would be if it came out today. (Just Of course, Super might be a little too grandiose impressive game of contrasts. The first seven yes, but seven hours later you're battling out of that, you're trekking up a giant tree floating It's the sort of wacky dynamism that gives the at Lively Town for the first time, it really does the game effectively follows up on by giving you Serene Village after the final battle, it really For as much as the Mystery Dungeon series is about be similarly labyrinthe. Mystery Dungeon games has a pretty impressive grasp on the genre. The seemingly unrelated plotlines at the same time first few scenes in class at the beginning of the a sentiment echoed by the ghosts that later haunt it being towards the start of summer, but as we is in fact being pulled ever-so-slightly closer to in strange scarves, scarves which we later learn Nuzleaf indicates there being something strange never uncover what it is during our time there. amnesia at the start of the game, and must figure and what the deal is with those Beheeyem that foot-shaped writing despite never having learned central mystery of Super is a mysterious rash of a lot of mysteries. For someone who just Super Mystery Dungeon might need one of those The game executes on these mysteries with to tie everything together in a surprisingly And the game sure loves its plot twists. playing the game for the first time, slamming my working with Nuzleaf. A good representation of the In fact, the game might be a little too into Super Mystery Dungeon subverts expectations: it is the Partner who must leave, due to It's a lot of information to process and there's the sense this undermines what such a twist until the literal last possible what is actually being said. So the focus plot thread instead of becoming emotionally Such is the case with a lot of the which becomes over-encumbered enough by its plot in the last few hours, but the game never really the first place. Indeed, much of what happens in retread of Gates to Infinity. That isn't a problem rendition of the story is the vastly superior of nature derived by the latent negativity from however, Gates focuses pretty singularly on this of distrustful and angry Pokemon, people who daring to dream big in a cruel world. These see characters like Gurdurr or Virizion, we but as microcosms of a systemic cynicism that effectively makes the argument that hatred is not and that negativity will ripple far beyond has become a disease, one which characters like But Super never actually gets around to making Krookodile never feel like more than exactly what crook. There's never the sense they represent On the contrary, most of the characters in Super characters like Nuzleaf and Yveltal are revealed was only able to control them because of the the game never shows us this, so it may as well when Dark Matter shows up at the end of the game, "negativity," it's difficult to see how the rest so the dynamism that energizes much of the latter relying on its intricate plot mechanics and lifting. This is not to suggest that the final anything - there are still plenty of memorable never comes to make a point even half as cogent Still, Super Mystery Dungeon's story is manages to imbue the Pokemon world with a level achieved before, and as I've attempted to The Mystery Dungeon series suffers from a it is a series that has been walking off the sites giving Mystery Dungeon games a middling fans complaining about the latest generation of the story was cute, but the gameplay was a that makes you want to fall asleep at the wheel. it's the very same one I held back when I first Over time, however, I've had one very key gameplay isn't bad, or just okay, it's actually the right ways. And unlike in other Pokemon that to happen. With Super, the sheer number of means things can get very tense very quickly. playthrough was waiting until some of my highest stacking half a dozen requests in an them all out in a single day's expedition, racking And that right there speaks to the appeal While many detractors talk about how the random there's something about this explanation that not really the interesting task in these games. Instead, Mystery Dungeon is first and foremost a decision to do half a dozen requests in a very who were the Pokemon currently available to me? about wands or orbs? How many floors do I need out of Reviver Seeds, should I start using wands if I've only got another three floors, maybe are the kinds of decisions you're required to and it requires immensely more amount of thought (noncompetitively, I will add). It's why the Team DX wasn't quite the tell on the gameplay removed the need to prepare adequately At its best, the gameplay in Super Mystery Dungeon where you use the randomness of the dungeon to lying on the ground to confuse an enemy. Or being the enemy, so you're forced to cast Stayaway move around. Or finding a Confusion Guard emera so you can use a move which attacks twice without kind of tactic that makes the Mystery Dungeon Dungeon games can get a fair bit repetitive most mainline Pokemon games as well? The Mystery can't really think Hyrule Warriors is less O-OK. ....L-let's refocus. Super Mystery Dungeon is a one-of-a-kind surely portends a miracle. We may never again as this again. At the most basic level, it's an series I previously thought had none. And yet, its greatest ambition arguably lies in its the world, yet has the audacity to lock it roleplay. Super Mystery Dungeon makes breathing place, one where people are allowed franchises rigidly prescribed hyperfixations. world where I can simply wake up, have a for the rest of the day. Plus a Pikachu. Why