Good afternoon, guys. Here in beautiful Montana. Have a very interesting and that is the tension and developers that want to Now that's been going on but the last two years So today we have the great privilege who was a rancher and cowboy for 20 years but is now developing. He said he knows the situation Both sides of the argument. Let's go meet up with him Let's do this. country [door opens] PETER: Trinity? -Nice to meet ya. So my dad used to own all this property My dad actually had a head injury. So he was completely disabled I was involved in selling part of this just to make it through that time period. -That's my dad and mother. WOMAN: Hi. You see dad's face over there? He just got kicked by a horse That's why he's all messed up. -Can we go meet dad? He's a character. [door closes] PETER: Rumor has it Yeah, a few times, yeah. [chuckles] We used to own from here all the way &lt;Okay, yep, we just came that way. &lt;Is it bittersweet, &lt;But then also it's beneficial TRINITY: I don't know that JOHN: No, not really. It barely got us by and then after that and then after that, it's a one time deal. You sell the land, -Oh, so you guys didn't subdivide it? &lt;Oh, so you sold to someone, Yeah, 'cause it costs a lot of money &lt;All that infrastructure going in? You gotta put in all the roads, So we just sold it and you know, that's gone in a year, so... [all chuckling] &lt;You buy horses from the natives? Used to but then they -So they didn't want to sell us any more. &lt;The series Yellowstone, &lt;They sort of got it right &lt;the big money coming in from the cities &lt;and then the natives, right? &lt;Is that a realistic thing or is that like Part of that is far off Hollywood really aren't concerned about They don't really... That's not something &lt;Okay. Yeah, I mean we get along It's a different world sometimes when you're dealing with If you go up there and say You show up, they may not and you're like, &quot;We told you and they're like, &quot;Which Wednesday? I mean time is a completely relative term. They're very untrusting. They're very protective of each other &lt;Okay. Like Dudes, Pickles, Mouse. So... So I called... I called everywhere around and asked if they could They 100% had never heard of Mouse. So I gave his real name. &quot;Boy, never heard of that.&quot; I'm calling all the neighbors now. So I've gotta talk to him that I've gotta get up and buy hor... &quot;Oh, horses?&quot; &quot;You're talking about Horses.&quot; &quot;Yeah, we can tell you And then they would [all laughing] "And that's my cousin.&quot; TRINITY: &quot;Oh, that's my cousin.&quot; yeah. PETER: Okay, so you have to have You gotta have some connections. PETER: Which is sort of cool in a way, Yeah. The problem is that the fellas that are kinda getting pretty aged, -It's hard to find some of the newer ones. PETER: Oh, gotcha. TRINITY: The ones we had is 'cause So those guys are gone. -Your parents' old house is that one? -And someone lives there now? They sold that and you guys TRINITY: Yeah, building this place We've owned it for many years but... PETER: And this is all your land? TRINITY: Up to the railroad tracks. -Okay. What I've been seeing in my Two and a half weeks I was under the impression They're loaded Set for life. But you're saying It depends on how much land you have. If you've got a couple thousand acres You know, a decent area it's either development Somebody from Microsoft -They buy the big stuff, you know. But these ranchers don't really know I mean if you've grown up all your life this is what you do, is ranch. -All your life. And then somebody comes along for one thing, they'll say, &quot;No.&quot; because they're always thinking but right now what we're running in to is the kids don't wanna do it anymore because they're seeing I mean my friends that are ranchers, You know, they've been on four vacations And they live and work on the ranch. I mean, they get up, the kids help them... -You did this lifestyle for 20 years? Now you're doing real estate. So I managed this &lt;Okay. And I started out as a teenager There was nothing here. There was not a corral, Then I got married at 18. Managed that business &lt;Did she move into the camper? [laughs] No, no, I had a house &lt;Okay, okay. So we drove here every day and through those years, long, long hours. In the morning at 6:00 and then come back here, do that... I'd leave for two days to pack for an outfitter. Meaning you pack up mules. 'Cause everything has to be and you pack up mules and pack in guests. &lt;Okay. Pack stuff back out, And then come back here, Meaning you move cows for him and work for him basically, and then go do the horse leasing again and then put up hay. &lt;So all you're doing is working? Working solid from 5:00 or even staying somewhere over night. And still we were... And you get a flat tire, and you don't I mean it was that tight of a budget. -You're just breaking even? At some point I'm like, You gotta get out of it, &lt;So why do people stay in it? It's 'cause it's what they know Well, here's the thing. You talk to somebody and it's like and go buy another ranch in Oklahoma or at the other side -Where it's cheaper? They won't do that because they're It's almost like a spiritual tie to land. Land has a grab on you until you deal with families It's not that they want land. It's that they want that land. PETER: So the locals or can't afford, or what's the story? Totally can't afford. Because everybody wants to move to Montana the land thing has become a big issue. There isn't any more land obviously. &lt;There isn't land? &lt;I drove through just pasture, There is land There's land but not for sale or it hasn't been developed. So you can't build on it. PETER: So that's where With these old communities Like did your dad have a problem with that because there are say 20 to 30 new houses So people don't really So they have a problem with it &lt;Okay. So they're like, and so they're upset that you're &lt;Okay. But technically you're there's such high demand for So they don't want you which would actually drop the price -because you'd have a supply. But you don't wanna PETER: I mean look at this view. PETER: I mean why would you wanna I mean, look at that. -You don't want a bunch of houses there. What is the dynamic between and the locals? Different ideologies of course but I guess it depends who you're dealing -You know, a couple years ago... The people who were coming in here They want part of Montana and they wanna basically come in Those people, we didn't &lt;Why? 'Cause they brought from where they didn't But now the people who are coming from the Most of them are coming from The more freedom the ability to raise your kid and have it in a school that's small. So you can know everybody Those people fit in much better. Two years ago I coulda half what I could build it for right now. And here's the problem Somebody's selling a house -Let's use that, okay? And it's high real estate values. They come over here with a chunk of money. Somebody that's living in Townsend they don't have that chunk of money. So if they wanna go that cost has more than tripled in the last two years. They can't... The inflation is killing 'em on... 'Cause they're making now the expenses are more. &lt;Okay. And they can't step up. So there's nowhere for them to go. Does that build Is there resentment? There's resentment there for that because when somebody comes in with money you're just viewed as somebody with money. Even though you may have gotten or you believe the same things, You're beating somebody out that lived here for 40 years. &lt;Yeah. That now can't afford the house So I've been on both sides of that. I lived in Lake Tahoe, and especially at those times So I moved to Reno, Nevada because I could buy a house there. And everyone was like, Which it was, still sort of is but it's gotten a lot better. Anyways, so I had to move, right? And then I've lived in San Francisco. There's no way I was gonna buy So I've moved from these locations So I was just a realist. Like, &quot;Not gonna happen for me, Now I'm on the other side, My wife and I live in and by me buying a house I helped drive up real estate. -Right? So I'm part of it, And that's the thing is that... I think you gotta realize You have to realize That doesn't mean you can stop it. You can't stop it from happening. You just have to understand you may have to move to an area like Reno. People would rather than actually go do what's hard. &lt;Yeah. So you have to do what's hard to actually get to where people are -And that should motivate you? It doesn't usually but it should That's why there's so much Lots of people focus on the negative but that means there's positive there too. That means there's things -So why don't you go do them? So this is the old Geiger homestead. PETER: Geiger homestead? TRINITY: The Geigers came out here Homesteading though, to get people to move out here. &lt;Yeah. Basically you could and then prove it up. Which means to prove it up you had to for a specific period of time and then if you did that that gave you the land. So they did that, obviously That's what they started with obviously. You build that first 'cause Winters here are brutal. Especially in something like that. -As you can imagine. And then once they made it and then their daughter she married the only son which is right over the hill here And they made the two places one. -How many acres are we on right now? -It's about 250. TRINITY: And then that's TRINITY: So they made and then the parents, and moved over there and then that place was sold in the '50s. That's Canyon Ferry Lake. Which is a reservoir. -Okay, so that dam was put in 1955. That's part of this story. The guy whose ranch was forced to sell it to the government for that particular lake to be put in and he came up here and bought this property -It's like Three River Gorges in China? -Except he got money for it instead. &lt;Instead of like, &quot;Get out.&quot; They hold a major grudge. -Still to this day? 'Cause they didn't get They got what the government The couldn't replace it but they did replace it They lost that place. You could say that they up sold to here but you didn't see under the lake, Okay, but to be fair, and they're sitting on how many This is priceless because you can't... This is like something you're right up next to the mountains. This borders Forrest Service and then So this is full of elk. I mean, PETER: This is one of It's got something to it Yeah, isn't it? Like this wind coming through these clusters of Aspen trees. Big fields, rolling hills mountains, clouds, and then this. There are many stories TRINITY: Absolutely. PETER: And now the story is cow poop. [both chuckle] TRINITY: They have kind of taken it over. TRINITY: They had to burn To keep this place warm. -I guarantee it. So every room when they had a chimney in it, a fireplace. PETER: So you think TRINITY: I'd say probably 20 years, PETER: Whoa. PETER: Birds coming out of here. TRINITY: The pigeon kinda got you, huh? [both chuckling] PETER: All right, Trinity, you ready TRINITY: Yeah, you gotta TRINITY: This was like a pantry cupboard. PETER: Okay, pantry cupboard. TRINITY: 'Cause this was the kitchen. PETER: Look at that, it's like a picture. TRINITY: Yeah, what do you PETER: That's your kitchen view. TRINITY: And then this place used to That's one of the ways they made money. PETER: Yeah, I don't They landed on something amazing. How do they feel about PETER: So you know the guy -Yeah, he's a good friend of mine. TRINITY: There's two types of people Some of them inherit 'em as like you know... &quot;This should be mine.&quot; and then it's kinda just because and then there's Cory. He feels he needs to earn it and he works more He wants to run it He wants to run it better I don't know if you can You were talking about the sound of the wind through the trees. That has a completely different when there's no leaves Blowing snow, and cold, and dark. TRINITY: Trying to think 'cause there's patches of those. Like yellow, and pink, -Especially up there, you can see those. TRINITY: The miners that came here... I mean I'm sure There's probably pockets of gold They've gotten all the easy stuff, right? So for example, this. I don't know -That's a mine up there, right? It's a mine tailing, they were testing And obviously there wasn't 'cause PETER: Okay, my question was because they haven't been And you haven't, they've tested So there's a lot of areas, That you're like, PETER: What if your buddy who owns this... He could start tapping in And if he hits gold, he hits gold. You know what makes ranching -What? That doesn't tear your land up at all. 'Cause all you have is one or two -And it's just pumping money all day long. Makes ranching pay very well. Wow. Look at this. PETER: So look, This is something so special But you want to live in it and that's why we're flawed. Exactly. -[Peter laughing] Human nature says I want a house here but I don't want anyone else country This is kind of like a newer This is what a lot of the areas that This is one of our projects PETER: How long have you About five years. I've been in construction, for about 8 or 10 years now. &lt;Okay. &lt;And so you're building Yeah. &lt;Is there a battle in this would you say? 'Cause you've seen the ranching side you saw the beauty we were just at you don't want to lose the beauty. -How's it feel? Because when I see places get developed When they're already developed it's like you're not gonna run cows There's not stopping that. And the other thing is to do what they want to do too. &lt;Right. It's like some people say &quot;Well we just need to stop and building on this land and everything.&quot; but you can't really. That's why I feel you have to so he doesn't develop land. That's the only way out. You can't stop people from coming &lt;Right. I believe in freedom so I believe PETER: Okay, so basically where cowboys and cows... Used to roam. PETER: Used to roam. -Just a few years ago. PETER: And that's the change, PETER: Nice place with a beautiful view. PETER: So what's a home like this That's probably $800,000. $750,000 to $800,000. -Okay. PETER: Place like this, same thing? Can you imagine a year and a half when you could sell a house in some other city in the country and then PETER: Building that for $250,000? TRINITY: Yeah, with the land. &lt;Wow. People would have a job at Home Depot selling something, coming out here, and going to work at and pocketing $500,000. I mean it was happening quite often. There's something that's It's that ranchers, a lot of them They're afraid to show They're afraid of the outside 'Cause they hear it a lot. They hear the outside judging them for just doing the normal things But I think that's changing a little bit. In one regard it's because that if they don't speak up they're gonna get overridden &lt;Oh yeah, for sure. &lt;They'll get rolled from West Texas all the way to here I've gotten ranches A lot of these ranchers, Salt of the earth type people. Work super hard. -&quot;Leave me alone.&quot; mentality. Everyone stay out of my life, &quot;I'm not gonna tell you how to live, -Right? And they thought And they thought they could a lot of people moving into these places Mm-hmm. They're more vocal And there's that friction right now. And they're more willing to tell that. You know, to say it publicly. They feel... And what I'm talking about is people that are against for human consumption or whatever feel that it's socially acceptable Where ranchers feel that it's not okay to say that in public. &lt;Right. So now they're thinking &quot;We have to tell this side of the story I have no problems for anyone's views. If they're against ranching Absolutely. I would say educate as much as you can 'cause I knew nothing I have a lot more of an education now. But if you're gonna then you gotta be Meaning if you're totally against cows -being a vegan is not enough. -You can't wear leather. Nail polish, off-limits, right? You have to know what comes out of a cow. A lot of the products... -But I learned that. And a lot of the things we use So if someone stays true to those values I can respect that. Absolutely. It's a little hard if they don't. -Exactly, it's a bit hypocritical. -So old building in Downtown. PETER: Okay, so you're -The top of this building is apartments. TRINITY: We're selling these. And then the bottom This is an old building the original beams that are holding it up. PETER: Oh, that's so cool. TRINITY: In this one, we were able &lt;Oh, great. -So kind of a cool little place. See, I would call this small. [laughing] &lt;I'm thinking like a studio apartment &lt;It's a nice space here. So these are two bedroom, two bath. So these places are now because they can't afford to buy a house. Young couples... They're okay with living Right. Definitely young couples. Young couples, 'cause you gotta start out. You don't have to manage So what's the price This is now like $340,000 &lt;Okay. This is kind of neat, Right, how are the locals taking to this? -Or they just don't know yet? See 'cause now we're taking It was a total eye sore for the community that looks really nice. &lt;Yeah. So they really like this stuff. PETER: It is absolutely beautiful, &lt;Really cool and I love TRINITY: Yeah, isn't that cool? PETER: What a cool little town you got. -I like it. [chuckles] We're gonna get some food here? This is one really big problem -They're not open, so... [laughing] PETER: This is where we were gonna do... You said the subs were excellent, right? TRINITY: Excellent, PETER: So how do you get someone if all the restaurants are closed? That's a problem. So Mondays are really tough 'cause there's like one restaurant So we were gonna do it's not happening in Townsend today. So we're going to, you said, Yes, it's a very beautiful place. Very secluded. country As a teenager that was just me, My parents lived in Helena and I'd go fishing [music continues] -Antelope? PETER: And this is a massive ranch, huh? TRINITY: We're talking 300,000 I have no idea. PETER: So like a small Yeah. PETER: Little bit of exaggeration but... It's an interesting story. 'cause there's two brother that married that were going to Both the brothers did. Like we're talking TRINITY: I would love to hear [gate clanking] PETER: What elevation are we at now? [doors slam] TRINITY: Now we're about 6,500 PETER: Okay, so we climbed about Yeah, so this area gets a lot of snow. PETER: What are these, bunk houses? TRINITY: These were bunk houses. Now they're bunk houses So part of what ranchers to save, to keep their place You can book a cattle drive here. &lt;Okay. So you can come and then go on a cattle drive You can pay to hunt here, On top of their ranching that's actually paying them This is an extremely So what looks from the outside it might not be the case. They're just sitting on the land. Right, and a lot of times people see they'll always have a new pickup. You know, they'll Everything looks groomed, but that's because they have to have it When you have a place as big as that like Gault, he has a helicopter that he flies because you can't &lt;This ranch has a helicopter? -Neighbor. Has a helicopter. It's actually cost effective for him 25 miles away with a helicopter rather than have to drive there and take a whole day to do it, you know? &lt;So their profit margins are like 1%? -Something ridiculous. I was talking to a rancher the other day He's like, &quot;On a good year we're looking &lt;Yep. And I'm like, &quot;Well, yeah but then you to get the first calf from. So you have to feed that cow How long does it take to pay that off He's like, [laughing] PETER: So here we have the rooms. -Can I open one? [door opens] PETER: Here we go, wow. -Isn't that cool? -That's an elk. PETER: And then log cabin style, &lt;Hey, let's leave the link to these guys. -Are they looking for people? -Battle Creek Ranch. TRINITY: They're coming up here PETER: Okay, so this is TRINITY: Yeah, so like barely... We're getting here... -And we're almost in mid-June. The season's very short. &lt;Very short summer here. TRINITY: Very short. &lt;And then we got the classic barns. [birds chirping] TRINITY: Literally you can't hear you don't hear an airplane going over. You hear absolutely nothing out here but the sound of what it sounded like TRINITY: These people are so nice. The Rickmeyers are great people. -It's okay to go in? -There's a bear in here. PETER: Wow. PETER: How do you feel &lt;Do you like that? Uh, I don't think it's my wife's style. They have game all TRINITY: Yes, well, 'cause this is PETER: Okay. PETER: So this is what -They always put the game inside? PETER: It's a bit creepy, I gotta say. [both laughing] TRINITY: It's creepy, yeah? PETER: A little bit, no? TRINITY: Oh yeah. PETER: Wouldn't be my first choice, -That's the beauty of it. All right, end of the road, huh? End of the road. -Thank you, Trinity. For bringing us in most of us don't have any clue about. Like most issues in life You can see the ranching perspective. You can see the local perspective. You can see the person I see your perspective. Foot in both worlds. There's no easy answer, right and wrong, Definitely no easy solution, Okay, and I also want to mention, guys. Trinity has an awesome YouTube channel. Super knowledgeable as you can see today and he understands It's all about Absolutely, the reality and being at one with what's You know, this part of life. And it's done... Not like you online, that's educational that gets a bit boring his content doesn't get boring. It's really interesting. That's it, guys. From Montana, thanks for coming along. country