The man known to history as Tsar Nicholas Alexandrovich Romanov on the 18th of May 1868 the imperial retreat outside St Petersburg, His father, Tsarevich Alexander Alexandrovich, Russia. The younger Alexander was given an ordinary service when his elder brother, Tsarevich Following the death of Nicholas, Alexander his late brother's fiancee. Upon his father's death in 1881, Alexander Although most of his ancestors were German, peasant and his legendary reputation for strength with his bare hands for entertainment during Nicholas II's mother Maria Fyodorovna was years before her father became King Christian In 1863, Dagmar's sister Princess Alexandra VII of the United Kingdom. In September 1864, when she was not yet seventeen, Russia, but after his death the following younger brother, Tsarevich Alexander, converting the name of Maria Fyodorovna. The couple would have six children, of whom A second son named Alexander died before his two sons named George and Michael, and two into adulthood. The Romanov family had ruled Russia since Romanov was elected Tsar at the end of a fifteen-year as The Time of Troubles. Nicholas II's life and reign proved as troublesome placed his ancestor on the Russian throne. At his birth, the Russian Empire was the world's the west to the Pacific coast in the east, its southern frontiers in Central Asia. This vast country owed its origins to the state ruled by princes of the Rurikid dynasty, who ruled the lands collectively known as century. After the Mongol conquest, Moscow became the over the course of the 14th century by a combination to the Mongol or Tatar khan. During the following century the Muscovites after the fall of Constantinople in 1453, before expelling the Tatars, subjugating the northwest, and beginning its expansion eastwards At the beginning of the 18th century, after founded the city of St Petersburg and defeated the Russian Empire in 1721. At the end of the century, Ukraine and Crimea imperial rule by Catherine the Great. After repelling Napoleon's ill-fated invasion powers on the European continent, and in 1814 at the head of a coalition army that forced Both Catherine and Alexander were inspired but they found it difficult to reform a system to maintain the integrity of their state with In the decades after the Napoleonic Wars Russia strongest military power, but despite their army was defeated in the Crimean War, which and economic system. After Nicholas's grandfather Tsar Alexander on a reform programme to modernise the Russian on the international stage while dealing with the urban classes and the rise of nationalism half of the population was Russian. In 1861 Alexander abolished serfdom and gave serfs were obliged to pay redemption dues compensate their former owners. In 1864 trial by jury was introduced, and established for rural areas and later cities In order to address the deficiencies in military conscription was introduced and corporal punishment Nicholas spent his childhood with an affectionate but intimidating father, a combination that a young adult. Like other European families, Nicholas's his education and upbringing, but he spent and governors. Between seven and ten years old, Nicholas Ollongren. Aged ten, his upbringing was entrusted to who invited specialist tutors to teach the German, mathematics, geography, chemistry, subject. Nicholas had a close relationship with his at the Alexander Lyceum, the prestigious school Under Heath's influence, Nicholas adopted an attitude that would contribute to his reputation In March 1881, when Nicholas was thirteen II was assassinated by the socialist revolutionary to the Winter Palace from a military inspection. Having survived six previous assassination Alexander had his legs blown off by a bomb he died a couple of hours later. His grandson Nicholas was among those gathered While Russian tsars had often been violently in palace coups, this was the first time a who aimed to overthrow the monarchy. While he honoured his late father's memory Blood at the site of the assassination, Tsar liberal reforms and cracked down on left-wing In May 1887, after an attempt on the Tsar's II's killing was uncovered, the revolutionary members of the People's Will executed for Alexander's death led his younger brother politics. After his grandfather's death and the accession the title of Tsarevich and became heir to He continued to live under the supervision when he began his political education at the the empire. The greatest influence on the teenage Nicholas law professor who served as the secular head Pobedonostsev believed that Russia's communitarian democracy and regarded the peasantry, who and socialist ideas in the cities, as the Nicholas was also taught economics by Nikolai 1881 to 1886. Though the Russian economy developed rapidly was comfortable in the world of wealthy bankers of economic theory remained poor throughout of ministers on economic issues. In October 1888, while Nicholas and the imperial imperial train derailed at Borki in Ukraine. The roof of the dining car collapsed, but to hold it up, allowing the children to escape At the age of nineteen Nicholas was commissioned regiment of the imperial army. As with elite regiments in other European received little military training but Nicholas young aristocrats who served as Guards officers. During the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries and royals to embark on a Grand Tour of Europe and to see the monumental remnants of Greek Tsar Alexander turned his attention eastwards was sent on an eastern Grand Tour accompanied Asian culture, and after brief stops in Austria Prince George of Greece, Nicholas visited Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), the Dutch East Indies Thailand), and parts of China and Japan, before In May 1891, while Nicholas was in Otsu in attempt by a local policeman. Though he received a sabre wound to the face, the second blow. Nicholas cut short the rest of his trip and He had been a member of the State Council birthday in 1889, and in 1893 he was appointed of the Trans-Siberian Railway. In 1890, Nicholas began an affair with the a Polish ballerina of the imperial ballet. Though the affair was actively encouraged he was expected to marry a European princess. In 1884, Nicholas was present at his uncle Elisabeth of Hesse, one of the many German royal houses. It was there that Nicholas met Elisabeth's was Queen Victoria of England's favourite By the early 1890s Nicholas was determined he proposed to her in April 1894 while attending Ludwig of Hesse in the German city of Coburg. The highly-religious Alix initially rejected up her Lutheran faith in favour of Russian her mind and would soon become a zealous convert. Despite his seemingly robust constitution, in 1894 and by late summer he was diagnosed of the Borki train disaster six years earlier. In the autumn the Tsar went to the Livadia Tsarevich Nicholas was deputising for his On the 22nd of October Princess Alix arrived blessing, and on the 1st of November 1894 leaving his twenty-six-year-old son as Nicholas On the 26th of November, less than a month was lifted for the wedding of Nicholas and and taken the name Alexandra Fyodorovna. Although she took a great interest in Russian serious empress was ill-at-ease in St Petersburg enjoyed by her mother-in-law, Dowager Empress Nevertheless, Nicholas and Alexandra had a have four daughters and one son between 1895 During Nicholas' reign, the imperial family's Tsarskoe Selo. Though the palace had a neoclassical exterior were decorated in a Victorian Gothic style The family spent summers at Peterhof, around visits to imperial hunting lodges in Poland Nicholas and his family enjoyed excursions the Standart, which was also used on occasion For the first decade of Nicholas' reign, the Winter Palace in St Petersburg during was increasingly isolated from St Petersburg Aside from occasional holidays and international the day at 8 o'clock with a swim before Alexander Park. From 9.30 he attended to court business for ministers between 10.30 and lunch at 1.00. After a forty-five minute lunch Nicholas would the afternoon before tea with the family at Between 6 and 8 in the evening there were Dinner began at 8.00, after which Nicholas Empress's boudoir. After 10 Nicholas returned to his study and After becoming Tsar on his father's death, take the throne. The young Tsar was indecisive and lacked confidence, individual in Russia was the last person who Empress Alexandra frequently attempted to him that he was the Tsar and was appointed Nicholas' imperial majesty would have to at his coronation in May 1896. Although St Petersburg had been the capital Tsars continued to be held in the former capital On the 26th of May 1896, Nicholas was crowned Dormition Cathedral in the Moscow Kremlin. Four days later, on the 30th of May, a large field on the outskirts of the city, with Nicholas By 6 in the morning, over half a million people that there were not enough complimentary souvenirs leading to a stampede which killed over a By the time the imperial family arrived in up. That evening, Nicholas and Alexandra attended to celebrate the Franco-Russian alliance of While the imperial couple did not wish to hospitals the following day, the image of made a bad first impression. Nicholas began his reign with few close friends relied on advice from ministers inherited He continued to be guided by Pobedonostsev's of his reign he did not deviate very far from Nicholas' desire to please everyone around who disagreed with him resulted in incoherent Rather than decide policy collectively through to make decisions by meeting ministers individually. The Tsar's main interests were in foreign, these areas ministers exercised considerable Later in his reign Nicholas suspected that his powers as Tsar and he played his ministers undermining the effectiveness of his government. Like many of his predecessors, Nicholas was and believed that as Tsar he had a direct The Tsar considered himself a father to his personally, no matter how trivial. Among Nicholas' ministers, the most influential of Finance Sergei Witte, who had spent twenty being appointed Director of Railway Affairs in 1889. Vyshnegradsky launched a programme of industrial taxes on peasants and protected by high tariffs products. These policies were adopted and expanded by Finance in 1892 and became known as the Witte The Finance Minister believed that rapid industrialisation Russia was to avoid becoming economically a fate that seemed inevitable for the Ottoman in China. Witte recognised that the peasants and urban that only by developing Russian industry using capital and technology could Russia be able and the United States. Witte's advocacy of the industrial economy who were sceptical of capitalism and favoured When Witte proposed adopting the gold standard he faced considerable opposition among his cost of borrowing, and it was only the forceful that allowed the Finance Minister to have With his background in the rail industry, of the Trans-Siberian Railway intended to the Far East. In May 1891, while returning home from his marking the start of construction on the railway maintained his interest in the Far East, believing economic advantages from the weak Chinese In 1895, Japan defeated China in an eight-month secured possession of the Liaodong peninsula naval base of Port Arthur. Since the Japanese presence in Manchuria undermined Empire, Russia organised an international Japan to hand their gains back to China. Under Witte's influence, Russia was given Railway through northern Manchuria, reducing In March 1898, after Germany seized the Chinese secured a lease on Port Arthur and the Liaodong port of Weihaiwei. In 1900, the Boxer Rebellion broke out in in the empire. The Chinese imperial government sympathised the rebellion, while the international community Russia was among the eight nations which joined forces remained in Manchuria to protect the over the province. Although Witte's policies led to rapid economic accompanied by the movement of peasants from centres. The cities were unable to provide the necessary with the demand and living and working conditions In the meantime, the increase in literacy of trade unions to defend the rights of workers. In many of these unions, radical revolutionary of the Tsar and his regime. This industrialization led to not only strikes countryside prompted by Witte's high taxes over the course of the 1890s. Witte recognised the condition of the peasantry and instead proposed radical land reform. Witte suggested abolishing the peasant commune, and the land around it was owned collectively full property rights to their land. The political stability of the Russian Empire but also by the intellectual classes. As in many autocratic regimes, the most radical Nicholas faced student riots across the country. Although some leading instigators were expelled Nicholas recognised that some of the students' of Education took steps to abolish the hated greater choice in the courses they studied. While Nicholas hoped that the Russian education and support for the state, university professors sympathised with liberal and radical ideas sentiments upon students. By 1900, there were three distinct political Nicholas II. The Socialist Revolutionary Party formed in to the People's Will and the agrarian socialist The SRs believed that peasants and workers revolution to overthrow the Tsar and were The SRs promoted revolutionary terror and Minister of Internal Affairs Vyacheslav von The Social Democrats, on the other hand, owed and believed that the urban workers would In 1903, the Social Democratic Party split led by Vladimir Ulyanov, better known as Lenin, by Julius Martov. The third strand of opposition to the Tsar and constitutional government, where political assembly representing the people. The Liberals, primarily influential in the from middle class and upper-class individuals, to the working classes. The political instability in Russia at the Minister von Plehve to remark in 1903, "What war to stem the tide of revolution." Plehve's comment was in reference to Minister that Russia's Far Eastern adventures were In February 1904, Russia and Japan went to Though Nicholas had hoped to avoid war, he crush the Japanese. Contrary to the expectations of the Tsar and inflicted a series of heavy defeats on the In April 1904, the flagship of the Russian killing Admiral Stepan Makarov, the Russian In early September 1904, Kuropatkin's army at the Battle of Liaoyang, forcing him to Kuropatkin expected reinforcements from European parts of the railroad were not yet complete. In the meantime, the Japanese laid siege to 1905, destroying the Russian Pacific Fleet Later that month, the Japanese army defeated and forced the Russians to retreat into northern The key battle of the war took place at sea Rozhestvensky's 2nd Pacific Squadron, which voyage from the Baltic Sea, was annihilated of Tsushima. After mediation from President Theodore Roosevelt ended with the signing of the Treaty of Portsmouth over Korea and resulting in Russia's evacuation In line with Plehve's expectations, Russian revolution more likely, and on the 28th of Plehve was killed by a bomb thrown by a Socialist Nicholas had appointed Plehve Minister of of his predecessor Dmitri Sipyagin, hoping to Witte, who was beginning to lose the Tsar's caused by his economic reforms. Like many Russian conservatives, Plehve believed to the state and presided over a policy of the radical urban intelligentsia. Plehve was a notorious anti-Semite and considered capital of Kishinev in April 1903, during Jews. Though Nicholas condemned the killings and to stem the pogroms between 1903 and 1906, the bloodiest of which claimed the lives of Odessa in 1905. Following Plehve's assassination, Nicholas as his successor, seemingly in response to hardliner to the ministry. Svyatopolk-Mirsky proposed a programme of rights, and greater influence on central government country. While the Minister of Internal Affairs believed Grand Duke Sergei led the conservatives in Not long after Nicholas rejected the Interior government in December 1904, Svyatopolk-Mirsky On Sunday the 22nd of January 1905, tens of the Winter Palace under the leadership of in St Petersburg. Among Gapon's demands for political reform to deliver a constitutional government in The protestors were carrying religious icons imperial anthem God Save the Tsar, appealing Nicholas was away at Tsarskoe Selo at the accepting Gapon's demands, the decision resulted in the deaths of several hundred the paths to Palace Square opened fire at them. While Nicholas expressed regret at the fatalities, Tsar's claims to be the protector of his On the 17th of February 1905, Grand Duke Sergei terrorists in the Kremlin. Nicholas responded by offering to establish to consider relinquishing his powers as absolute The Tsar believed that constitutional government and anarchy, while also considering it his by God. As a hereditary monarch, Nicholas also considered son and heir. Between 1895 and 1901 Nicholas and Alexandra Maria, and Anastasia. According to the Imperial Succession Law of all male claimants were extinguished. As a result, Nicholas' younger brother George death in 1899, upon which their youngest brother When Nicholas fell gravely ill in the autumn the Laws of Succession so that Grand Duchess averted succession talk. On the 12th of August 1904, Nicholas and Alexandra named Alexei after the 17th century Tsar Alexei laid the foundations for his son Peter the pursuing a programme of moderate reform. Nicholas and Alexandra were naturally delighted when it emerged that Alexei suffered from grandmother Queen Victoria which impaired cuts and bruises could potentially prove fatal. Alexandra's concern about her son's condition her to turn more to her faith. Rather than solving a problem, Tsarevich Alexei of anxieties. The defeats on land and sea during the Russo-Japanese state and its military commanders and contributed While news of Mukden and Tsushima made their continued throughout the country, reaching in Moscow and St Petersburg. When the railwaymen went on strike, it paralysed officials from travelling between St Petersburg After Sergei Witte advised the Tsar to make of October, Nicholas issued a manifesto drawn with legislative powers and to create a Council have the powers of a prime minister. A week later, Witte was made prime minister, the unrest continued, and a Soviet of Workers' in St Petersburg, while in December the Bolsheviks Trotsky would later describe the events in which would overthrow the Tsar twelve years For the time being, Nicholas remained in power by Pyotr Durnovo, the Minister of Internal over the transport and communications network Soviet. By the end of 1905, many liberals rallied the radicalism of the masses. Most liberals formed the Constitutional Democratic legislative assembly to carry out further were satisfied by the concessions granted Party. The new constitution was published in the Law of April 1906. As promised, the law created the State Duma, house of a bicameral legislature. The upper house was the reformed State Council, the nobility. Nicholas continued to assert his "supreme to dissolve the two parliamentary bodies or When Tsar Nicholas II opened the Duma at the of April 1906, he was a month shy of his thirty-eighth for more than a decade. During this period the Russian economy continued which had been driven underground by his father Nicholas managed to gain control of Port Arthur thereafter with a humiliating defeat to Japan. Despite the imperial majesty on display at the Revolution of 1905 and was forced into government which he was fundamentally opposed The new constitutional experiment began poorly, with Witte. While peasant disturbances continued in the could not make up his mind how to respond, through military force. Nicholas kept Witte in office long enough remain on the gold standard before dismissing Ivan Goremykin. Although the electoral law for the Duma had supporters of the monarchy, when the State it was dominated by the liberal Kadets and The mainstream socialist parties, the Socialist decided to boycott the First Duma elections. Even so, the body's demands for parliamentary for the Tsar, who dissolved the body in July. Elections for the Second Duma in January 1907 left after the SDs and SRs agreed to participate. The Second Duma was soon dissolved, and the legislature. While Nicholas was struggling to adapt to court welcomed the presence of Grigory Rasputin, Rasputin was introduced to the imperial couple who would later marry the Tsar's uncle Grand Over the coming years, Rasputin gained considerable his ability to stop Tsarevich Alexei's bleeding. Despite his condition and regular warnings and would occasionally hurt himself. On more than one occasion when the Tsarevich whether by touching the child or through his almost instantly. The imperial couple regarded Rasputin's for the monarchy, though his political influence who supported the separation of the state Rasputin's presence at court damaged the deemed an embarrassment by educated society, from Prime Minister Pyotr Stolypin to expel Stolypin had succeeded Durnovo as Minister before becoming Prime Minister in July. Before being promoted to ministerial level in southern Russia, and at the age of forty-four, ministers. Stolypin continued to crack down on peasant hangman's noose was nicknamed "Stolypin's into Siberia were known as "Stolypin's Although a conservative nobleman, Stolypin proposed a land reform programme to weaken of family smallholdings. He also attempted to stimulate the economic each peasant 40 acres of land to cultivate He was a talented orator who made powerful close working relationship with Alexander in the Third Duma. This alliance began to fail in 1909 and 1910, the zemstvo and increase social protections and industrialists who dominated the Duma. In the meantime, Stolypin and Guchkov's the army damaged his relationship with the Stolypin's plans to expand the zemstvo system Duma but were defeated in the State Council Stolypin responded by threatening to resign powers to suspend the legislature and adopt Nicholas agreed to these conditions and retained infuriated both the Tsar and the legislature. On the 14th of September 1911, while attending and his eldest daughters, Stolypin was shot four days later on the 18th. The assassin was hanged a week after Stolypin's investigation, prompting rumours that the of the Tsar. Stolypin was succeeded by Finance Minister lacked the presence of his predecessor and Having remained at the head of the Finance spending led to clashes with General Vladimir Krivoshein at Agriculture. Sukhomlinov had been appointed by the Tsar give the Duma greater control over the armed the army and navy. Krivoshein was responsible for enacting Stolypin's the Peasant Land Bank to allow peasants to He encouraged the development of schools, children received a primary education. In February 1914, Krivoshein managed to outmanoeuvre his friend Peter Bark as Finance Minister allowing the Minister of Agriculture to become In the meantime, in 1913 Nicholas had asserted Nikolai Maklakov as Minister of Internal Affairs. With the Tsar's support, Maklakov cracked attempted to reduce the Duma's powers. In 1914, St Petersburg was hit with a series calm. Widespread demonstrations of popular support of Romanov rule convinced Nicholas that he the country. After its inauspicious start, the constitutional despite Stolypin's assassination, and there such as Krivoshein to carry out his agenda could be a constitutional monarch like his However, after Nicholas limited the electorate without political representation and the workers the Tsar at any sign of weakness in the imperial The Tsar had been saved by the Russian army of defeat to Japan, Nicholas desperately sought Although Russia and Britain had been close Russia's defeat in 1905 dispelled British signing of the Anglo-Russian Entente of 1907. Together with the Anglo-French Entente Cordiale 1894, this created the Triple Entente of Britain, The rival European bloc was the Triple Alliance the latter's fidelity to the alliance was to parts of the Austrian empire. Following the appointment of Sergei Sazonov a three-pronged policy to remain committed Germany, and to promote unity among the Balkan Austrian encroachment in old Ottoman territory 1908. Rather than confronting Austria, the Balkan over Macedonia and Albania in 1912, before While Russian nationalists advocated a Pan-Slavic more concerned about German ambitions in the The Russian Empire's Black Sea trade, including the Straits of Constantinople, by modern-day In 1913 a German general Liman von Sanders garrison. Over the previous century the Ottomans had and military administrators, but the Russians Elsewhere in Europe, a naval arms race between war between the continent's most powerful After the humiliation of the Russo-Japanese programme which included the centralisation of War, an increase in the size of the field machine gun crews at the regimental level, army corps. On the 28th of June 1914 Archduke Franz Ferdinand, in Sarajevo by Gavrilo Princip, a Bosnian The Austrian government in Vienna believed assassination, and four weeks later, on the to Serbia deliberately intended to provoke Foreign Minister Sazonov predicted that the war. Russia would be duty-bound to support Serbia in turn resulting in hostilities between Germany Since the Anglo-French entente was not a formal join the war against Germany, but even with would engulf the continent. Nicholas remained optimistic and hoped to Wilhelm II of Germany, but on the 30th of order the mobilisation of the Russian army, war on Russia. On the 3rd of August Germany declared war Belgium the following day, the British government went to war with Germany on the 5th. The First World War was greeted in Russia inspiring confidence in the Tsar that his example of Russia's victory over Napoleon Most European military planners expected the best in Europe, and Germany and Austria enjoyed enabling them to move their armies quickly Among the three Entente powers Britain and it would take time for those resources to do most of the fighting on land. In order to avoid a two-front war, the Germans Paris and defeat France while the Russian its attention back east. The Russians took advantage of this by sending than the Germans expected, albeit without Despite initial Russian successes, in late Army under General Paul von Hindenburg and the Russian Second and First armies in quick the Masurian Lakes. Setting aside these disastrous defeats, the in Poland while a Russian offensive against Ukraine. By the spring of 1915 the Russian army was a series of German offensives in Poland, by Poland and Lithuania. The defeats in Poland led to the crisis in Grand Duke Nicholas Nikolaevich, with the for the logistical failures. After being imprisoned in the notorious Peter of War was dismissed from office in June and in September the Tsar dismissed his uncle command himself. By doing so, the Tsar was partly placing a Grand Duke, but the latter had also proven nerve with his armies in full retreat. Without any meaningful military training himself, of strategic or operational decision-making, staff, Mikhail Alexeev. The Tsar hoped that his presence at the front and civil authorities, and serve to improve up the ranks of the Russian army. While there were many advantages to the Tsar presence at General Headquarters in Mogilev from the political situation in the capital the beginning of the war to sound less German. On the 7th of September 1915, a majority of Bloc demanding political reforms and a government In other words, they demanded one favourable The Bloc's initiatives were supported by which were formed at the beginning of the for the war effort. Many of the Tsar's ministers also lobbied believing that victory could only be achieved in conjunction with the industrialists and Bloc. Unwilling to work with Goremykin and horrified command without consultation, the Council Nicholas in turn. While the ministers were afraid that as supreme military setbacks suffered by the army, shortly improved as Kiev was successfully defended, coordination between the Ministry of War and In the summer of 1916 General Alexei Brusilov the Austrian lines and captured hundreds of The Russian successes forced Germany to redeploy assault on the French fortress of Verdun and launched an offensive in July. While the army had enjoyed its best year in the continuation of the war effort. A shortage of food and fuel created high inflation, bring food surpluses from the agricultural while at the same time moving troops to the While aware of these problems, the economically-illiterate his ministers were increasingly sidelined. After the 'ministerial strike' in late his ministers with individuals who were regarded With her husband away at headquarters, the the empire's domestic affairs. In January 1916 Goremykin was succeeded by When the Tsar sought to dismiss his Interior 1916 under pressure from the Duma, the Empress Alexandra's German origins fuelled rumours even though the Empress was critical of Wilhelm Ernst Ludwig was fighting in German uniform. Alexandra was rumoured to be under the influence ministerial appointments. The boastful Rasputin exaggerated his influence ladies, and his presence at court continued at a time when it could ill afford it. Nicholas's relatives were increasingly concerned a group including Prince Felix Yusupov, who Duke Dmitri Pavlovich, Nicholas's cousin, in St Petersburg. With the country seemingly on the verge of the economic crisis, the Kadet leader Pavel and asked rhetorically whether the government's Once again, Nicholas was asked to appoint the Duma, a call echoed by aristocrats and While he privately recognised the danger of beginning of 1917, Nicholas remained optimistic that a planned spring offensive would bring On the 7th of March the Tsar left Tsarskoe disturbances began as the men of the factories demanding bread. By the 11th almost all of the capital city control the rioting by troops loyal to the However, on the 12th, the Petersburg garrison the capital. Striking railwaymen blocked the imperial train where he arrived on the 14th. On the 12th of March twelve Duma deputies of the capital, and on the same day the Petrograd was formed. On the evening of the 14th, General Ruzsky, in Pskov, presented Nicholas with a message urging Nicholas to grant parliamentary government The Tsar initially refused, but when he changed and Rodzianko urged the Tsar to abdicate to The other generals, assured by the Duma leaders and urged Nicholas to abdicate. On the 15th of March Nicholas agreed to abdicate worrying about the potential fate of Alexei decided that he should instead be succeeded serve as a constitutional monarch. On the 16th of March, under pressure from decided not to assume the throne until a constituent to retain the monarchy. After returning to Mogilev, Nicholas issued March urging the men to continue fighting Government. Later that day, Nicholas was arrested and under house arrest for the next five months. Though subject to humiliation by their guards, that the heavy burdens of government were There was an expectation that the former imperial Pavel Milyukov, now Foreign Minister in the for asylum to the British government on behalf The British prime minister David Lloyd George King George V feared that granting asylum his standing among British socialists and Even had such an offer been extended, Nicholas abandon Russia out of a sense of duty despite In August 1917, the Provisional Government Tobolsk in Siberia, where they lived in the The provincial city remained well-disposed the children socialised in secret with the The fate of the Romanovs was destined to get under Lenin overthrew the Provisional Government. Since Imperial Russia used the Julian Calendar Calendar used most of the world, the event The Provisional Government had been unable of the Petrograd Soviet, while the failure support for the radical Bolsheviks who demanded In January 1918, the Bolsheviks consolidated Assembly, where they were outnumbered by the Keen to secure his power in Russia, in March the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Germany and the Baltic states, Belarus, and Ukraine. The Bolsheviks' suppression of the Constituent created the conditions for civil war. In the spring of 1918, the Czech Legion, who Railway in order to join the allies on the Bolshevik rule. The Bolshevik leadership had not decided what second-in-command Leon Trotsky hoped to bring executing him. In April 1918 the Bolshevik revolutionary the central government to bring Nicholas and intercepted by a detachment of Bolsheviks the convoy and took them to their base in Nicholas, Alexandra, and Grand Duchess Maria in the house of Nikolai Ipatiev, a military The Tsarevich had been ill and had initially but by the 23rd of May the rest of the family and three servants. As the Czech Legion advanced on Ekaterinburg, in Moscow decided that the Romanovs should On the 4th of July, the deputy head of the was appointed commandant of the Ipatiev House. In the early hours of the 17th of July, the the basement. After the twelve men of the firing squad entered Soviet had decided to execute the whole family. A stunned Nicholas asked, "What?" before began. Three men in the firing squad claimed that for the former Tsar, but regardless of who of Russia, was dead at the age of fifty, along loyal attendants. Yurovsky ordered his men to hide the bodies by the counter-revolutionary White armies The Soviet government claimed in public that when it became increasingly clear that the rumours that Tsarevich Alexei or one of his The memory of the dead Tsar served as a rallying-point who opposed the Bolsheviks, but by 1921 Lenin's regime would remain in power until 1991. From their exile in London, Paris, New York, of Soviet communism and the return of the In 1981, the Russian Orthodox Church Abroad in 2000, the Russian Orthodox Church in Russia In the meantime, the remains of Nicholas, discovered in a ditch near the Ipatiev House in 1998 they were buried in a special chapel In 2007 further remains were discovered at of Tsarevich Alexei and either Grand Duchess In 2015 the Russian Orthodox Church ordered in the chapel for further testing. While renewed investigations confirmed the of 2024 they have not yet been reburied in The legacy of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia continues and it is closely related to the question of Communist rule in Russia in the 20th century. Nicholas had been exposed to revolutionary of his grandfather Tsar Alexander II, and during his own reign. After the unexpected death of his father Alexander for government. Despite being a well-educated and intelligent and initially found it difficult to stand As Tsar, Nicholas was able to make his mark War dented his prestige and fuelled domestic When peasant uprisings and strikes broke out conditions, Nicholas wavered between granting Although personally a kind and gentle man, which he considered to be given to him by system was unsuited to representative democracy elected legislative assembly in October 1905 After doing so, he could only work with the to exclude the majority of the population. Despite all the difficulties he faced, Nicholas on disturbances, and it was only the First Nicholas to give up his throne in March 1917. Though a prisoner after his abdication, Nicholas of the burdens of government, but any hopes by the Bolshevik Revolution, leading to a What do you think of Tsar Nicholas II of Russia? Was he a weak and incompetent ruler and a down on political opposition and encouraging enough in using force to maintain political Please let us know in the comment section watching. The man known to history as Vladimir Lenin 22nd, April 1870, or the 10th of April, using of Simbirsk over 700 kilometres to the east His father was Ilya Nikolayevich Ulyanov who in 1831, but had earned his freedom in his at Kazan University. He subsequently enjoyed a successful career in Russia and rose to become a state councillor, the Ulyanovs became part of the minor Russian public education within the Russian Empire. Vladimir's mother was Maria Alexandrovna and Jewish ancestry. It seems likely that Vladimir never knew of She and Ilya had eight children in total, Vladimir was the third eldest, arriving after Vladimir's childhood was comfortable, in career. For instance, as well as living in a well-appointed at a manor in Kokushkino in the countryside. Vladimir also emerged as his father's son, teenage years, excelling at school and becoming But the upper middle class idyll of his childhood When he was fifteen years of age his father January 1886, an event which had a profound become an increasingly reactionary and rebellious The situation was massively compounded the who had left to attend Saint Petersburg State in a conspiracy to assassinate the ruler of Vladimir's brother, along with several others, role in the conspiracy. Vladimir would never be the same again and can be traced to this event. Vladimir's subsequent actions and those in relation to the political landscape of century. For centuries Russia had largely lain outside culture but beginning with the reign of Peter eighteenth centuries, efforts had been made it more like other European states such as This work was continued by his near successor, and wanted to make Russia a modern nation. This all occurred as the Russian Empire was eighteenth century Russian explorers and colonists Manchuria, extending the Russian state as Catherine began a series of conquests which Ukraine under Russian rule. Yet despite all of this, the country remained Serfdom, under which Russian commoners were a quasi-slave, still predominated across the rural; the Orthodox Church had a huge influence authoritarian, being ruled by the Tsars and In a world where nations like the United States, modern form in the nineteenth century, the backwards by comparison. These issues were compounded by events in he was growing up. In 1855 Alexander II ascended to the throne He was a liberal reformer who wished to drag Thus, in 1861 he brought serfdom to an end of the most striking social reforms of the He also sought to reform the courts, policing However, in 1866 he only just survived an inclinations were toned down. But the reforms he had initiated had let the New ideas were being discussed in a more tolerant Dostoyevsky, Pyotr Kropotkin and Mikhail Bulgokov, ideas and political theories like anarchism, Many Russians wanted further reforms of society and an end to the autocratic state ruled by Groups such as the Narodniks and the People's agitating for these changes and it was the Alexander II. This ushered in a period of even greater discontent III, who was opposed to the reforms his father liberal dissent in Russia. Thus, the country Vladimir was growing up discontent and instability. It was in this political environment that to commence his studies. He was almost immediately involved in a protest societies which were perceived as hotbeds His role in this, resulted in a brief arrest his brief spell there had ignited the fire In the months that followed, Vladimir began European political writers. Amongst others he was soon attracted to the two German political philosophers and social manner in which industrial society was developing The Communist Manifesto, that bourgeois capitalist the industrial proletariat took everything This appealed to Vladimir at a time when industrialisation cities like Moscow, Saint Petersburg, Kazan However, it was not the only intellectual views were still under formation, although he reached his twentieth year. In 1890, Vladimir's mother was able to use education system to ensure that he was able in lieu of completing his studies at Kazan He passed with first class honours and thereafter Samara during the 1890s. Throughout these years he continued to foster in numerous political organisations. Russia's radical politics was buoyant at A dry autumn was followed by a bitterly cold -30 degrees Celsius in some parts of the country This was followed by a particularly dry spring to cause harvest failures across much of Russia. Famine struck thereafter and this was compounded of Tsar Alexander III and other pillars of By the time the famine abated in late 1892 and millions more were malnourished or badly As criticism of the government escalated radical gained ever greater numbers of supporters As the political radicalism of Russian society in provincial Samara and so it was, that in There he continued to work as a legal assistant, working to foster the Marxist and communist Socially revolutionary groups such as these of Alexander III, however his premature death Nicholas II to the throne, but while he was environment would remain repressive. No sooner had he arrived in the capital than communist cell in the city whose members primarily Petersburg. They termed themselves Social Democrats in Germany which was Marxist and communist in Already by the spring of 1894 Vladimir was Saint Petersburg as he had come to their attention Nevertheless, his politics only became more so after he met and entered into a relationship to as Nadya, a schoolteacher who espoused By that time he had also become involved in in the city. It was this activity which eventually saw by the authorities in 1895, just as they had called The Worker's Cause. Lenin was refused legal representation following before he was sentenced. This was a formative period in his life, as of Capitalism in Russia while in jail. Eventually late in 1896 he was sentenced to vast and inhospitable region of Russia beyond This was not a prison sentence, but the Russian removing a political threat from civilization, He was joined there by Nadya in 1898 and they Owing to medical complications which Nadya children. Vladimir continued to write throughout this of Capitalism in Russia under the pseudonym His exile ended in the early spring of 1900, to Saint Petersburg and so it was, that he the capital. Here Vladimir became involved in publishing meaning The Spark, however he quickly realised even greater sentence if he continued to operate Consequently, in the summer of 1900 he left groups there before relocating to Munich in in 1901. It was at this time that he began writing with: Lenin. By 1902 he and Nadya had moved again, this afar, with the paper being smuggled into Russia. It was during this time in exile in London work, 'What is to be Done?' in 1902. In this, he rejected the view held by many proletariat would move society towards a socialist Adherents of this view claimed that the role that process along. Instead Lenin believed a more interventionist of communism over capitalism, if needs be His belief was that the working conditions a greater desire for a socialist state amongst and Britain, but they would not move towards movement to guide them there. Once this was achieved in one nation, Lenin the international communist movement. As such Lenin now conceived of the Russian of the proletariat," a movement which would towards communism. But inherent in this view was a danger. If the communist parties in Russia were responsible internationally, then surely all manner of could be justified as necessary for the greater of the critical episodes in the early history While Lenin was in exile in Siberia in 1898, that constituted Russian communism had united Party or RSDLP, formed at an underground conference The party was soon being targeted by the Russian its leaders were arrested and imprisoned within Accordingly, a decision was taken to hold it was held in 1903. However, when the delegates met in London divisions soon began to appear. One faction, led by Julius Martov, argued in order to appeal to as many people as possible still only constituted 3% of the population. However, the other faction, which Lenin quickly should be restricted to more committed revolutionaries. When a vote was held on the matter in November, Lenin's group became known as the Bolsheviks as the Mensheviks. The Bolsheviks were the smaller grouping, 'majority' and Menshevik means 'minority', majority of the editorial board of Iskra voted The split between the Bolsheviks and the Mensheviks political parties immediately. Rather these now became two factions operating Nevertheless the division between them was who in the summer of 1904 published a treatise which bitterly attacked the Mensheviks. These actions were successful and by early over the central committee of the RSDLP. The timing was propitious, as important events of 1905. On the 22nd of January that year, a procession on the Tsar's Winter Palace in Saint Petersburg of workers' rights in Russian factories. In a striking overreaction, government forces 150 people and injuring hundreds more in what This, combined with Russia's defeat in the Russia in 1905, with workers striking in many agrarian unrest across the countryside. The Revolution of 1905 was the spark which time in five years. He was soon in Saint Petersburg where he was entitled Novaya Zhizn, meaning New Life. Through this and his other writings, he advocated at this time of intense revolutionary fervour the party by. In October 1905 the Tsar, Nicholas II, issued In this he made wide-ranging concessions to These included a declaration that many civil in Europe as far back as the eighteenth century while the Manifesto also promised that a new would be created and political parties could assembly. This had the effect of ending the political however, thereafter, Nicholas reneged on most While a State Duma was established, Nicholas in 1906 when the membership of the parliament Further Dumas were conservative and ineffective Meanwhile martial law was quickly imposed across Russia in the years that followed. As the political crackdown gathered pace in their options. The Revolution of 1905 had clearly been a What then was the path forward? One faction, led by a rising figure within Joseph Stalin, advocated engaging in a terror be attacked, a programme which would have There were few supporters of this, though By early 1906 in the face of the crackdown, Duchy of Finland, which was a constituent autonomously. Here the Bolsheviks were able to operate with easily get their printed material into Saint Finnish border. Yet it was soon realised that there would between 1900 and 1905. Once again the RSDLP leaders would head into Britain where their activities were more tolerated By 1907 Lenin was back in London where the the RSDLP against the Menshevik faction at that summer. A decision was then taken to move the party's had relocated by the end of 1908, as part but not before Lenin had spent several months in London in the summer of 1908, work which Empirio-Criticism. The subsequent move to Paris also proved transient stints, usually consisting of a few months and Krakow. These were years of decline for him as his some elements within the party favoured entering despite the fact that the State Duma Tsar more than a smokescreen to pretend that parliamentary Moreover, both his and Nadya's health were Lenin was probably suffering from the early which leads to an abnormal build-up of fat some have hypothesised that his health problems Whatever the exact cause of his ailment, it these years in exile, as his star waned within Meanwhile, in 1912 the split between the Bolsheviks divided into two separate political parties. The opportunity for Lenin to re-establish Party and for the Russian communist movement of fashions, specifically the outbreak of For years tensions between the major European issues, most notably the rise of the German colonial rivalry amongst all the major powers for Asia, and regional tensions over the changing Ottoman Empire was collapsing after centuries Russia was particularly concerned with the the Empire of Austria-Hungary to succeed the Thus, when a regional crisis arose there in a war between Russia and Austria-Hungary. Within days Germany had joined Austria-Hungary declared war on the governments in Berlin The First World War had commenced. By the end of it, Russia would be transformed. When the war broke out in the finals days which straddles the borders of Poland and Austro-Hungarian Empire in the early twentieth He was briefly imprisoned by the Austro-Hungarian but he was soon able to prove that he was of Nicholas II. Thus he was released and he and Nadya headed next two years as the war raged around them There he continued to write and theorise, of Capitalism in 1917. By now Lenin's political thought was beginning orthodox Marxism in a way which few communist In particular he rejected Marx's idea that from autocracy in the shape of kings and emperors and upper classes before it could transition Lenin, always with an eye to the situation be said to have yet emerged, theorised in for a state to move straight from autocracy the development of a bourgeois democracy. Such an experiment would soon be attempted As Lenin's political thought was evolving war effort was proceeding dismally. The Russian army was poorly commanded and on the Eastern Front it faced the most effective Matters were compounded when Tsar Nicholas 1916 actually saw Russian gains, most notably in the capture of extensive territory in Poland, side of Britain, France and Russia also aided However, by the end of the year food shortages itself as the war crippled supply lines and Disaffection at the Tsarist government was concerns about the influence over the imperial holy man. Eventually this spilled over on the 23rd of Petersburg, which had been renamed Petrograd Over the next week the Tsarist government by early March it was clear that the military way to save Nicholas II. With his family surrounded in Petrograd and attempted to make his way back to the capital took the advice of the army chiefs and several throne on the 3rd of March 1917. The brief February Revolution had brought of ruling Russia. was occurring back home. Within days he was preparing to return to His power within the Bolshevik movement had that the communist movement should refuse lambasting it as a clash of capitalists and He was facilitated in his efforts to head provided a sealed train to him and a few dozen Swiss-German border to the North Sea, the Russia's politics and potentially aid the By March the company had reached the Baltic Sweden and then onwards by land north through Along the way they received updates of developments a provisional government, one which looked and the liberal aristocracy. But this new regime had immediately run into Front literally collapsed in the face of mounting Thus, when Lenin's train pulled into Petrograd already experiencing difficulties. He immediately set to work bolstering the of proletarian workers in the city in the the 'April Theses' which he had written for a new government based around workers' Tensions built in the weeks that followed, become known as the July Days and during which against the government, fuelled by Bolshevik In the aftermath of the July Days the provisional and Lenin and many of his followers fled over of Finland. Other senior members of the party such as were arrested in Petrograd. From Helsinki in the early autumn of 1917 counter-revolution in Russia to overthrow They were not alone and elements within the initiatives against the provisional government, owing to poor handling of the war and failure Throughout the autumn the political situation of the Russian military, General Lavr Kornilov, In order to suppress this, the provisional and their workers' soviets in Petrograd the cause of the Bolsheviks. Lenin was consequently able to slip back across where Leon Trotsky had been elected as head The Bolsheviks had also managed to outflank movement, the Mensheviks, by this time. The latter had played a greater role in the more with the provisional government since able to capitalise on their persistently uncompromising Thus, by the time Lenin returned to Petrograd for the Bolsheviks to try to seize power in The coup which occurred in Petrograd on the in the Julian calendar which Russia used at modern world history, lauded thereafter by It followed from several weeks of planning in early and mid-October. Armed militias were prepared in Petrograd, government. It is a sign of how powerful the movement was aware of what was being planned, but could shut down the city of Petrograd on the 24th Lenin and Trotsky responded by calling on soviets to occupy government buildings on By the end of the day most of Petrograd and The following day Bolshevik Red Guards, as entered the Winter Palace in Petrograd and from power. That evening a congress of Russia's workers' which culminated the following day, the 27th government. In order not to alienate the bulk of the Russian agricultural workers, talk of a communist was effectively established in late October Within days the revolutionaries made some wider political community across Russia. This was a polyglot empire which stretched Ocean and from the Arctic Circle south into It incorporated a vast array of different Georgians, Finns, Latvians, Estonians, Lithuanians, the various ethnic peoples of the thinly populated It was with the goal of assuring this vast rule Russia for all its people that the Declaration issued on the 2nd of November 1917, just days This affirmed that all ethnic people living and had a right to self-determination. It also abolished religious and national privileges The document, which was signed by Lenin and figure within the Bolshevik movement since of 1905, is a striking testament to the idealism The Declaration was effectively saying that Russian Empire would not be maintained. The subject people of the Tsars could decide Within months the communist regime would begin The October Revolution did not result automatically The provisional government had been preparing constituent assembly prior to the Revolution plan early in 1918. There were, after all, other elements within had a claim to power, notably the Mensheviks Accordingly a Russian Constituent Assembly it as the Bolsheviks, who in March 1918 were Communist Party, aspired to absolute power. In the months that followed real power was councils or soviets in cities like Petrograd by the Political Bureau or Politburo of the In tandem the party began a concentrated campaign socialist and revolutionary groups from the Thus, by the end of 1918 the Russian Communist one-party state which they controlled. Lenin emerged in the course of this formative Perhaps most importantly he was the chair Commissars which effectively oversaw the governance Russia on behalf of the Russian Communist It would subsequently become one of the main was evolving into the Soviet Union. The chairs of Sovnarkom would later serve and roles were still evolving in 1918. As well as chairing Sovnarkom Lenin also sat and Defence. Thus, when Lenin relocated to the Kremlin prior to the moving of the capital to Saint century, he did so as the most powerful figure This came at a cost though. With the political environment still highly on his life alone in 1918. The third assassination attempt on the morning being shot twice and badly wounded, with blood His health, which had been precarious for In tandem with this reorganisation of the ruled by the Politburo, Sovnarkom and the to introduce a number of major economic reforms As early as the 8th of November 1917, less a Decree on Land was issued by the new government. This declared that all the land across Russia and the Orthodox Church was now confiscated amongst the peasantry in line with communist A debate would follow involving Lenin and should be followed thereafter. Lenin favoured the establishment of large would not be resolved for some time. In the cities major industries and factories the new ownership structure effectively handed New rules were introduced to reform the labour For instance, the working day was limited given that workers across Europe in many countries for decades to have the working day gradually hours a day. In tandem with these economic and property by Lenin's government in late 1917 and 1918 of Russia. For instance, communist ideology rejected Accordingly in January 1918 the new government and state at a time when organised Christian over education and other social matters. In tandem the new communist state stepped to all. In a country like Russia where only a very receipt of a comprehensive education in the and a campaign to begin tackling widespread Other aspects of Russian life such as banking, soon being brought under state ownership, replaced by one presided over by People's This differed from most judicial systems across in particular as they were presided over by The latter were like jurors in the common included the right of decision in cases in Of course beyond these economic and social with. 1917 had been a terrible year for the Russian In the course of it mass desertion and the to fight first for the Tsarist regime and the February Revolution had seen the German from the Baltic Sea south-east through Poland Lenin's government quickly accepted that the conflict without the loss of territory immediately with Berlin with a view to terminating lambasted as a capitalist, imperialist conflict. Accordingly, on the 3rd of March 1918, just Russia and the Central Powers led by Germany Under the terms of the agreement Russia effectively in the Baltic States region, Poland and Ukraine. Germany annexed much of the Russian territory Lithuania and Estonia were made into independent A new Ukrainian state acquired its independence, Further to the south-east Russia also ceded Empire. This was an incredibly punitive peace agreement, of its prime agricultural land and industrial populated areas of the Russian Empire. But in agreeing to it, the nascent communist Germany in order to concentrate on consolidating Lenin's government desperately needed peace in the spring of 1918, for the revolution not been accepted by a great many elements across the nation. The primary enemy of the new regime were known of the soviet regime, but in reality the 'Whites' who were unwilling to accept the new regime. They included large segments of the old Russian of which overnight had found themselves stripped enjoyed in Russia for centuries. Other elements amongst the Whites included and navy who were unwilling to accept the and leftists who gravitated towards the counter-revolution going to monopolise power and that there would Russia. By the spring and summer of 1918 significant of this unorthodox alliance of anti-Bolsheviks. The early stages of the Russian Civil War This was owing to events elsewhere. By the late autumn of 1918 the First World Empire began to collapse internally. The war eventually came to an end on the 11th the Kaiser Wilhelm II already having abdicated With the wider global conflict over, the victorious the United States and Japan, determined to state in Russia. The great powers in London and Paris were would not come to control one of the most 1918 Britain and others began supplying enormous Expeditionary forces were also dispatched newly created state of Poland which was formed Russia with western aid. As this occurred, the early stages of the for Lenin's government and it seemed for long. The immense emergency which confronted the be borne in mind when assessing the early Faced with multiple threats to its very existence and Stalin began unleashing state terror to in Soviet hands. This was occurring as early as December 1917 Commission for Combating Counter-Revolution It is better known as the Cheka and the first established by the Soviet state over its 74 The Cheka was tasked with rooting out anyone of the state. Its leader, Felix Dzerzhinsky, was given wide-ranging Within weeks hundreds and then thousands of arrested and executed without trial. A great many others were detained and sent in the remote inhospitable climes of Siberia. Lenin tried to distance himself from what is no denying that he was the head of the elements of the Tsarist regime were revived state which would broadly define Soviet Russia The Red Terror was but one element in the state in order to fight the civil war and Another was the use of blocking units in the The idea for these had come from Leon Trotsky Army soldiers who stood behind the Soviet who attempted to retreat. Brutal as these methods were, they soon proved The war effort reached a low ebb in the summer expeditionary force landed at Arkhangelsk had even been concluded, a legion of Czech into Russia seized the city of Kazan and Vladivostok, the Japanese. Thereafter Trotsky mobilized the Red Army Kazan was retaken in September 1918 and Samara However, these efforts were offset when newly Yet the initial onslaught of 1918 by the western the communist state and the end of the First powers as wars broke out in Ireland, Turkey In 1919 the Red Army went on the offensive. In early February Kiev fell as the communists which they had lost with the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. By April the British, French and American of the region as the port of Odessa fell to was established. In August the British and French expeditionary the north by the White Sea were evacuated. Thereafter the western powers were largely through their proxies in the White Army, Poland a token American and Japanese presence was Meanwhile the war in the west now concentrated At first the Poles made major advances, seizing threatened Warsaw an armistice was agreed Thus, by the end of 1920 the Russian Civil though mopping up operations continued in port of Vladivostok in October 1922 brought Lenin had left the leadership of the Red Army Trotsky. Instead he had spent the late 1910s formulating and communism. This was in response to calls by the British conference of socialist parties to be called But the Russian leader had become disillusioned which prevailed in Western Europe during his a new international socialist movement which Accordingly in March 1919 the First Congress Moscow, better known as the Comintern. There was much optimism at this about the given that communist revolutions had occurred the First Comintern. But these were soon suppressed and in his no immediate overthrow of the international Nevertheless the establishment of the Comintern it would serve as a major instrument of international One final policy of the Soviet regime under In the spring of 1921 as the civil war was the New Economic Policy. This represented something of a change of ideological Marxist. It may have surprised many then when he outlined allow the capitalist free market to continue the foreseeable future. It was declared that Russians could also own major industry and large agricultural estates The purpose of the New Economic Policy was of the war and introduce some growth into since that of 1891 and 1892 had spread across Ultimately the New Economic Policy resulted it exited the war and pointed towards the of private ownership and free trade to continue. Yet the New Economic Policy would be gradually process of state management of industry and The about-face in the early 1920s to adopt as to how we should perceive Lenin's political After all this was something of a new departure But then Lenin had been willing to depart theorist's writings for some time, to the of communist thought by the 1920s, one which throughout the remainder of the twentieth Essentially Leninism's core idea was that by the development of a bourgeois democracy large urban proletariat which would implement communist state in due course. Instead Lenin espoused the idea of a dictatorship might be in a given state and that this vanguard rest of society towards socialism and communism. This was an important development. Marx would have scoffed at the idea of communism or Angola where there was little industrialisation with its message of a small vanguard of the would have a profound impact on the twentieth Lenin, though, would not live to see any of His health had been steadily declining throughout has never been definitively established. It deteriorated sharply following the multiple when he was shot twice and badly wounded that Thereafter his physicians, of which there and early 1920s to try to resolve his problems, blood poisoning brought on by the fact that attempt had never been removed from his body. Eventually in April 1922 he underwent an operation not bring about any improvement. Instead throughout the early 1920s he was from an unusual combination of symptoms including stimuli, headaches, nausea and general fatigue. All of this eventually culminated in the summer he suffered in the space of just a few months. These left him partially paralyzed and increasingly As Lenin's health declined precipitously to the succession and what arrangement might completely unable to lead the new Union of had been newly christened in 1922. Lenin had never established himself as a dictator pre-eminent figure within the Soviet state exile and his intellectual leadership. Therefore it was conceivable that nobody would rule the Soviet Union collectively as a body. Yet even Lenin doubted that such an arrangement figure would succeed him. To that end in the midst of his illness in Here he discussed the respective qualities Foremost amongst them was Joseph Stalin, who of the Communist Party. But Lenin had become wary of the Georgian of the Revolution of 1905, claiming he was an intellectual standpoint. Instead Lenin gave his approval for Leon Trotsky The dictation of the testament was one of In March 1923 Lenin suffered another stroke, speak. Thereafter he continued to decline before 1924. He died on the 21st of January. The political machinations to succeed Lenin Trotsky was convalescing from an illness in when Lenin died and Stalin sent him incorrect he missed the state funeral which was held Lenin's body was subsequently embalmed and Red Square in central Moscow, where it is Despite Lenin's warnings, many of the other Politburo favoured Stalin in the aftermath Stalin entered a political alliance with two Zinoviev and Lev Kamenev, one which he used He eventually drove him into exile and then By 1929 Stalin had monopolised power completely a dictator in a manner which Lenin never had. For the next quarter of a century he ruled murdering millions in his quest to retain The man who was born as Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov pen-name he adopted in the early 1900s, was twentieth century. He hailed from an upper middle class bourgeois that same background from a very young age, execution of his brother by the authoritarian Over the next quarter of a century he emerged the Bolshevik movement, theorising about how beyond Marx's thought in the process. As a result, when the First World War created to emerge in Russia in 1917 he became the proletariat and the communists, as small in of the Russian Empire as a whole, would act in Russia and then the world. The Russian Revolution was born of idealism imperial regime which had ruled Russia for But nation states can rarely escape their true of Soviet Russia. Within weeks of the Bolsheviks seizing power which in many ways mirrored the Tsarist regime The Cheka was created as a secret police which police under the Tsars. Political dissidents were soon being sent much as they had been in imperial times. And the possibility of a democratic legislative state was quickly dashed as a dictatorship with Lenin at its summit. This soon drew withering criticism from other Russia, notably Rosa Luxembourg, the leader the intellectual forefather of Bolshevism. In saying this it should be noted that Lenin But the state which he more than anybody else 1920s was a highly totalitarian one which What do you think of Lenin? If he had lived long enough would a more benign have become as oppressive and totalitarian Please let us know in the comment section, watching.