Vanessa: English comfortably, confidently, and you can talk Hi, I'm Vanessa from SpeakEnglishWithVanessa.com. the world around you in your home, talking about the word for in English or what we commonly use house, the kitchen, the bathroom, and also some that are commonly used. To help you with this big all of these expressions. It took a lot of time it. I hope it's useful to you. You can download Description so that you can review these words. conversations, grow your confidence and have the go on and you'll be able to take a little tour then after that, we'll take a look at my kitchen and we'll talk about some bathroom vocabulary. And some common actions for cleaning that we use in deep breath. You're about to expand your mind. Welcome to my kitchen. I'm going to just go around the kitchen, the living room, the office, to go step by step through the different things any explanation, I'll try to explain them. And I your vocabulary. All right, let's start with &quot;refrigerator,&quot; if you want to be extra intense, the top, you have the freezer. My freezer is on sometimes, it's split down the middle and there's on the other side. Mine's just on the bottom. on my fridge. That's pretty typical. I have some some pictures, some magnets that but this is pretty typical that you'll see. Here we have our dining room table. In the or maybe their kitchen will be a little bit It's from the 1920s. Actually, my apartment and typically see if you visited someone's house in if there're any differences from typical houses in Here we have the table. Pretty simple. I bet in English class. We have chairs. We Or if you have a separate dining room, you can a one-year-old, you're going to see a lot of our one-year-old. Here we have his high chair. His a little bit different than a stand-alone high we don't have much room in our kitchen so we have Next, let's move on to this table, which is Here you can see a fruit tray. You might call of the U.S. you're from. At the moment, we only we have more. We also have a coaster. This usually hot or cold things to keep the table safe. and a sippy cup for our baby. we have our cheese grater. This is with the &quot;T,&quot; cheese grater. Our knives, we have some measuring teaspoons to measure things. A lot of people have And here we have some condiments that we often by and handy. We just have honey, some balsamic, of course, you can see my plants, which are as they say. Our plants often die, so they This is our oven where we cook and bake things. the &quot;stove,&quot; and there's four burners on this on the stove. Inside is the oven. Often, I'll this full device, but you can kind of sticklers about that kind of thing. Sticklers but we often say &quot;oven,&quot; &quot;stove&quot; for this general inside is the oven. I have some pots and Here I have my glass lid because inside I'm making later. And my cutting board, I have a couple of so it stays close by and handy. On this side of Typically, people will say &quot;spice rack,&quot; or &quot;spice technically, it's a shelf, but we call it the I also have some tea and some cookbooks and This is something that's pretty We have a sink. Most places have a sink with usually a strainer, for straining pasta But, we didn't have a dishwasher until about apartment. As I mentioned, it's from the 1920s. no dishwasher, no washer or dryer for clothes, table top dishwasher. This is not typical in Typically, they're under the counter and it's the dishwasher and see the dish rack. Here we that needed to be cleaned too. We have the dish And up here, I have a small dish rack just for glasses, but you can hand dry things and put them you have in your house if you have a dishwasher, them in the drying rack or in the rack. Above the dry goods. You can see we have some There's some pasta, some kind of leftover dry people will have what you call a &quot;pantry.&quot; A goods, but our apartment's pretty small, it's old. Beside the dishwasher, we have a toaster oven, fact, I'd say 99% of Americans have a microwave. lot of space. This is an old apartment like I there's one more key element that you will not see but we have a toaster oven. A lot of people will slots. We call this &quot;the toaster&quot; because it's the slots and a toaster oven, you probably need to be the toaster oven&quot; or &quot;I put it in the toaster We have a paper towel rack. This is the paper paper towels for cleaning up things. We also heating up water. This is kind of like our little coffee things. We have some dish washing soap. things happen. And finally, it's a little bit it's a little bit high up so I have to hold the have big plates, little plates. You might come plates, but in reality, we just say &quot;big plates,&quot; some regular glasses, tall glasses, short glasses, bowls or different functions for different Up on top as well we have some mugs as you can choosing the right mug for that moment is You have to have the right mug. Do I want the mug on it? It just depends, and it kind of lends the feel the same way about the mug that you drink the mug is important to me. All When you first come into our house, we have a typical in some American houses. But, in a lot For us, we lived in Korea for a couple of years so sign on the door that says, &quot;Please take off your friends have never actually looked at the sign and We're pretty relaxed when it comes to guests, If we need to run into the house for something a shoe rack so that we can easily take off our Welcome to our living room. There is one thing couple of things, but specifically one thing that pretty typical, and that's just a TV. You could Why don't we have a TV? Well, it was a conscious I'm not a big fan of different TV shows and I feel like I don't want to just have we can talk about that another time. to see a TV in American households in their living say &quot;main room.&quot; Some people say &quot;den,&quot; kind but people say &quot;den.&quot; I don't know if that's south say that. But, we call this just And that's where we spend a lot of our time. On some shelves for displaying different &quot;knick-knacks,&quot; and that means sometimes junk. But for us, we try to keep only things that our shelves. And on the piano, there's You might see as well that we have a lot of baby off the full living room. And that's because we us sane. And maybe for you, if you have a baby, you have a tent in your living room, but if you maybe you have a tent. We just have this tent goes in there and plays and we play with him in Now, let's go on to our bookshelf. Our bookshelf in our living room. We have the bookshelf, the centerpieces of this room. On our bookshelf, of by topic, not so much right now because I On the bookshelf, we have some speakers. We like our pumpkins that are kind of rotting. we have some toys for our baby. The first two that he can't reach, those are for us. We can say, This is where we lounge. This is the couch. We typically have coffee on it, but it usually just middle of your living room or close to the couch. put their feet on this. I don't know if you do extremely gross, but you just prop up your feet Behind the coffee table, you can see we have simple and it's kind of obvious, but if you want &quot;side table&quot; or the table beside the couch. And light our reading in the evening. we have, we call this just our Ikea you might see people who have comfortable chairs calling them an &quot;easy chair.&quot; Usually, an easy bit more comfortable. Or, you might hear them how you're not studying and you're not working means that when you sit on it, you feel lazy, you comes up so you can completely relax and lay back. kind of bounces a little bit. It's not a rocking but it has a little bit of movement. is the place where we can put seasonal things or here we have the inner window. It has some kind panels here. We also have inside our window and take a look. Most windows in the U.S. have a window, just to prevent mosquitoes and bugs coming we also have another pane, a window pane that's seeing the regular window pane, but on the other window. You could put it down in case of a storm, usually for older houses, because older houses maybe some modern technology for the windows' and just this regular window inside. quickly talk about the basics of a room. We But, here we have hardwood floors. We don't have it's an older apartment so it has wood, but it's a little bit difficult to clean carpet. But, the bedrooms, or if they have an upstairs area in the main room or in the living room. thing to have hardwood floors, kind of going you might have that in your house if you live in small carpets. Rugs and carpets are pretty is not laminate. In the kitchen, you saw laminate. It's typically in kitchens because it's easy to Welcome to our office, drum room, spare bedroom, a And oh, we have Dan. Dan's working on editing a If you'd like to learn with us, you can learn office desk. We have the desktop computer. We have great for editing videos and having a big screen. some of the office equipment. How's it going? It's going well. Are you getting some inspiration from the fish? Obviously. There are huge ball of algae over here. Vanessa: Welcome to our bathroom. We have A lot of American houses have at least two, but Typically, in the U.S., we say &quot;bathroom.&quot; &quot;toilet,&quot; but in the U.S., we do not say &quot;toilet,&quot; the &quot;toilet.&quot; In the U.S., when you say &quot;toilet,&quot; imagining the throne, that chair that you sit you say, &quot;I'm going to go to the toilet.&quot; We can bit better to say, &quot;I'm going to the bathroom.&quot; place. Some people might even say &quot;bathroom&quot; for in a gas station, or if you're driving on a road restroom inside the rest stop. Those are the most the U.S. Bathroom and restroom. But, I would not at a friend's house, &quot;I'm going to go to the little bit weird like I'm trying to be too formal it's my friend's house. So, I recommend using or for public places like restaurants or gas It's going to be a little bit tricky to film in we're going to make it work. Here we have the have a shower curtain, but in the U.S., you'll outside, there's one that has usually a nice, you'll see a shower curtain liner. And this inside of the bath tub, and that's to prevent other countries that don't have shower curtains a shower without getting the whole bathroom wet. curtain, and we have a shower curtain rod up Inside the shower, we have a bathtub. You can take Usually, just kids take a bath. It's and it's not really part of American culture movies maybe a woman in a bathtub with a glass typical at all. That hardly ever happens. We just dirty to sit in the bath water, because countries who take baths. Here have also a shower head. The shower head is where the water comes and up here, we have our shampoo and conditioner Moving on in the bathroom, we have a the table. There're some lotions or contacts to get ready in the morning or to get ready dispenser and we have the sink and a faucet. And well in the bathroom. I know some countries don't dangerous to have an outlet in the bathroom, so sink. Little word of wisdom. And it wouldn't be we have toilet paper, and we have the handle two separate lids on the toilet. I know it's kind of a all in one combo. But and usually a brush, a toilet brush for cleaning And don't forget some more dying plants just Oh, I don't want to forget as well. We have your hands after you wash your hands. And a Oftentimes, a hand towel will have a little but we don't have that so we just Welcome to my bedroom. The lighting is a little blackouts shades and blackout curtains so that especially when he takes a nap during the day. black shades and also some black curtains that All right, let me show you around. Of course, our bed. We have a quilt on our bed. This is but you'll often see simply sheets in But in the winter, you'll see a comforter. This lot of people use a duvet, but in the U.S., I had Europe. It's not so common in the U.S. Maybe I'm who don't have duvet. If you're in the U.S., let see a quilt or a comforter or just some sheets. of people in the U.S. who have a child, they apartment is small so we make do with what we there is a night stand. I have a The night stand is the table that goes beside night stand. Maybe there's a drawer or a shelf, night stand that you use when you're sleeping. people say &quot;dresser drawers.&quot; This feel like it's or my grandparents might say &quot;dresser drawers.&quot; &quot;It's in the drawer.&quot; This is a difficult word to Drawers. Drawers. Inside our closet, you'll up the clothes in the closet, or you can say hanging on what? They're hanging on hangers. that have to do with the closet. The clothes are their clothes up here, maybe some winter clothes One quick thing that I'd like to mention that we especially standalone houses, apartment lot of houses have a master bath or you can say connected to the biggest bedroom. Typically, if the parents' bedroom is the biggest bedroom, is the master bath. In the house that I grew up as well. But in our apartment, we only have the master bath. It's just the bathroom of the house. house or if you're describing a house or maybe you might hear that term mentioned. &quot;There's a Both of those terms are the same thing. Let's start by talking about some common kitchen the fridge, or you can say &quot;refrigerator,&quot; but and just say &quot;fridge.&quot; Good news for you. In the any other country that had fridges as big as in make things super big. On the top in my fridge, the freezer. We'll take a look at that in just a you have different shelves. It's a little And then at the bottom, we call these We don't use that that often, but it's the crisper fresh vegetables, fresh fruit to keep them crisp On the bottom of my fridge is the freezer. in half and it will be on one side or the other, On the bottom is the freezer, which is where we frozen fruit, ice, ice cream. Anything that you The second most common kitchen appliance is a of this the &quot;stove&quot; or you might say the &quot;stove and pans. And inside the oven is where you bake and inside here, there are some racks. That's hot in there so I'm not going to grab them, but &quot;Put this on the bottom rack&quot; or &quot;Put this on referring to those kinds of metal shelves inside all of this, this whole device, the oven, or separating the top is the stove, inside is the words to talk about the whole device. You might the stove and the oven, but you might kind of about the stove top are we have the knobs. when you are baking something in here, you we use Fahrenheit. When I turn on the oven and I and that is in Fahrenheit. If you're cooking in is American, if your recipe is not from the U.S., a stove in the U.S. That didn't use Fahrenheit. countries, I had to convert everything and it was Just check on the temperature, check That's all really essential. One thing also, typical placement for a microwave in an American why they put a microwave above the stove is it's What do you think that whirring sound is? It's a light on as well. You can see that light. And smells and steam and anything that you're out throughout the rest of the house. In my old was no fan above our stove. So whenever we cooked smelled so strongly like whatever we were cooking. But it's really nice to have a fan so that all up and the rest of your house isn't completely in an American kitchen is a dishwasher. I love we didn't have a dishwasher and we bought If you live in a place where you are always that is tough work, especially when you're cooking it's not easy to spend time doing the dishes or you could use a dishwasher. Yes, thank you there are racks. You might recognize that word racks, and there are racks in here as well. the bottom, this one doesn't say it, it might they might say top rack safe only. For example, use for Theo, our two-year-old, and we use them These are our dirty dishes. But when I and that's because there's also a bottom rack. and it's going to have a little more pressure. for whatever you're washing. Some things might sometimes I just put it on the top rack just simply go around the kitchen and talk about what's and then we're going to go into the cupboards It could be appliances. It could be things you counter. This is the counter. Simple word, or you prepare food. It's where we set out food. This laminate counters, which we'll take a look at over here, kind of like a plastic type surface, or It's really nice, but this is a wood block. the woman was a professional baker, so the old countertop. And now we get It's kind of unusual to see a big wooden a big counter where you can prepare which is wonderful because in our old apartment, And now we can prepare everything, which is great. is a fruit stand. We have some fruit hanging out coffee maker. If you've been watching my channel but Dan loves it. We'll get to what I have over might look a little more traditional than And then we have the paper towel stand. Sometimes counter and it kind of attaches to the bottom of shelf, something like that. But ours just is a we've got a couple of other things. Let's go take where we fill up water, all of those great dish soap. It's quite clear. understand. This is what you're going to use when want to put dish soap into your dishwasher. something about, yes, dish soap for hand-washing blah, blah, blah. It says I put this in my dishwasher, our So please don't do this, unless you There is specific soap that you put in like this. Usually we buy just like powder box that has dish washing soap. Make sure that you in the dishwasher, in the right place. And you of warning. Usually at the counter when you're We don't use sponges, but you might find a sponge. microfiber towel. We have a bunch of these, You might also find... This is called metal meshed up together, and you can use it to You'll also see a faucet. This is the faucet are living in the 21st century. We can just have Our sink also has this cool little thing. going to turn on the way, and then I'm going This is just like a little sprayer, so you can I once played a terrible prank on my dad little button on the side, and I put a rubber when you turn on the water, But if this button is pressed, it will I had a rubber band around it. And in the morning, You can imagine what happened. It didn't and sprayed him. It was a good prank, and but I thought that was a pretty clever moment when around your sprayer. There's also hand soap. Usually we use liquid hand soap. You might see unusual. I'm curious in your country if you use on to the side and see some other things that this giant metal tub is. Well, this is not common and I love clean, pure water. In the U.S., That's water that comes from the of places in the U.S. you can drink the tap It's completely fine, but I think it tastes very We have this water filter and we use this glass And it has some huge filters. This is called I forget the technical term for it, but takes maybe two hours to filter, so stores the water down here, and it tastes amazing. All right. The other part of this counter but I got it for Dan one year for Christmas I felt like it was a little bit wasteful to soda stream device. It's pretty nifty. There's machine, and you fill the bottle with water. water. It makes it sparkly. You can do it as and it's kind of an endless thing. And then you can just return it and they recycle it. if you drink a lot of sparkling water, check You might have this in your house or maybe you we had a toaster oven and that's with the door and it like an oven. It's kind of like a mini oven. just a regular toaster that has slots at More coffee devices. section. I have a lovely teapot, some tea here. I have another drawer that's got lots I would love to try tea from your country. I love to try lots of stuff when I travel. kind of traditional food and also the kinds I'm always curious what kind of things that other you want to send to me any. All right, we are back something I didn't mention and that's a tea kettle or for something else if you want to just heat on the top so that you can see how hot it is, It must be the perfect temperature. Maybe some we go into the cupboards and the drawers, I'd like some important elements for cooking. We have some that we have here and this kind of laminate wood a flat oven mitt, and this is an actual mitt, like And on this little tray, not everybody has this, we have some common items that we use when or salt and pepper, or my prenatal vitamin for kitchen scissors. I'm curious if you use scissors I feel like growing up, my parents didn't so maybe it's kind of a more modern thing. Next, let's take a look at some of the dry appliances and things that are put away. but up here we have some dry goods. Dry goods refrigerated. So for us, that's pasta or couscous to be refrigerated. We have some alcohol. cider spiked with rum. Not for me unfortunately our pumpkin party we had. And here is a little bit A lot of kitchens have cookbooks. You probably please recommend them. I always love browsing for Christmas, I usually buy a new cookbook. nice to start the year with new recipes and let me know. I have some cookbooks. This is but these are just recipes that I have written other... These are mainly knickknacks just kitchen. But here we have other dry goods and We try to have healthy snacks, especially with a to give him something unhealthy all the time. in these different jars. These are usually but we use it as just the name of it. It's a It has this type of lid that's kind of We usually store different peanuts, cashews, or sunflower seeds, or raisins. Anything that's shelf. All right, let's go back to the kitchen, a look inside some of the cupboards to look at hiding. Pretty much every kitchen has something There's not really a fancy term for these. You saucers. We don't have these, but you can use a little rim on the inside, some place where a saucer. This is just a small plate for small big plates, some larger plates. they are dirty. All of our bowls are dirty. because especially now it's a little bit colder And we finish all of our bowls pretty quickly. are though, so no problem. On the shelf in here, I love mugs, and some glasses It is glass. It is made of glass, but you can also There are some beer glasses. This according to Dan. I don't know. I'm not a a strainer. Sorry, I'm a little bit low This is a strainer. We put this in the sink You probably have something like that in your things like a hand grinder. Dan loves grinding This is kind of the miscellaneous coffee Other little devices. All right, let's going to sit up on the counter because it's and I'm down here and I'm showing this. All right, up here we have our wine a stem. A stem is that part on the bottom. A There's a flower, and then under the flower is glasses do not have a stem. We have some little just knickknacks. This is a point of contention in beer glass, he wants to keep it because it looks beer glasses, it kind of looks bad, kind And Dan doesn't drink that much it's not that great, I think. Anyway, so tell him. Actually, he knows. He knows. Sometimes Okay. I guess there were too many.&quot; These are some now we're going to go around the kitchen drawer You're going to see inside the drawers of our so clean either. All right. Inside this drawer, We actually haven't looked at our pots and pans They're kind of hanging up in an awkward spot hold all of the lids. It's so convenient. I really baking things. cookie sheets or baking sheets. You can use fries, whenever you want to cook, baking cooling rack. You can bake cookies and then it will cool the cookies and they won't get this for baking. It fits on this sheet perfectly. has a lot of grease, like chicken wings. Something food cooking in the grease. I'll put that up here, the pan. It's a little bit healthier and also Some other baking items that are baking different items. This is a bread pan, This is a casserole dish. It's pretty common I've ever actually made one myself. Maybe making a casserole. I don't know, maybe in It's basically just throwing everything some cheese, some broccoli, maybe some It's kind of like a strange lasagna, It's kind of an easy thing to make. This is a maybe for brownies or for baking vegetables. I use glass baking dish. Some people might actually call That's a really common brand name for baking So instead of saying the glass dish, we might say They might just say the glass dish, and that's just the brand name being used for but it's that same idea. It's a glass dish. You out from the back of this shelf are two silicon muffin tins, but I like to make muffins. metal muffin tin. This you can use less oil on it. it lasts for a long time. It's very easy to might use that or just something to make muffins This is not a stranger. This is a steamer, a was up in the cupboard, and we use that to wash It's supposed to fold up. You steaming water and you can steam broccoli. vegetables in this really easily. Steam shrimp. I steamer basket. I think these steamer baskets, but this folding metal type, I've had a The little leaves on them always fall off, even if I'm curious in your country if you use this type It's cool that it can fold up, but sometimes pretty well. But maybe it's just because I have a you find them around the house. Not very handy on from this cabinet and go to these drawers. A and a drawer, which is a tricky word to say, is At the top, we have silverware. Some people call When we're talking about forks, spoons, children stuff, when we're talking about these the most common word is silverware. It doesn't they're not, because that takes a lot of work At a restaurant, you might hear the restaurant a really fancy restaurant. I don't think I've I just remember in my home ec class, home baking and sewing and all those in my home ec class, I remember our home ec call it silverware. You will call it flatware.&quot; who says that? That's so fancy. But in but I've never used that term since. So if you're I'm curious if you've ever heard flatware in that we have some other helpful items for baking Everyone has stuff like that. Here we have ovens use, maybe I didn't mention this, but ovens milliliters and liters and these kinds of easy in the US and use tablespoons this one here, this big circle, And there's various increments, half a teaspoon, Yeah. If you're using in spices, or salt, or cooking something, like you're making a soup, I but that's a personal preference. We also hot things when you're cooking them, like corn, We also have a thermometer, this is a meat water too or for soup, other things but we usually it says C/F and that's Celsius or Fahrenheit. make sure that you have the right button clicked. what temperature should pork be in Celsius? Make I've thought about that a lot, because sometimes thinking the Fahrenheit number, but it's showing sure that you don't get that wrong, especially for pounding chicken, or steak, or whatever you also called a tenderizer. It has some knobs on All right, let's go to the next door. And This is a box of drink accessories. So if you if you want to open some wine, we corkscrew, that's this little device is a turn it, and then you can use the wine opener but you could use a bottle opener to open beer, or cider, or whatever you're drinking and this is a wine opener. We also have some wine. And if we have a bottle of wine, we don't pump the air out, our two year old likes to and you put the stopper in and it keeps your We also have a knife sharpener. This is for our knives, they are serrated. Serrated means they Serrated knives are great for cutting you cannot sharpen, at least as far as I know, like our chopping knife or some other And I bought this fun little device recently, You put a hard boiled egg inside these little strings will cut the egg. using this to cut hard-boiled eggs. And I love this. So I made a bunch of hard boiled them with this. It was a hit. It worked well. not many options that you can actually some glass Tupperware, again, these, you could not with the lid. But you could bake something baking. Usually we have a full drawer of full drawer of them right now because And as you saw in our freezer, we have a lot of maybe chili, we make a lot and then put some in to store it. And then the next week, when we pull it out of the freezer and bam, you've got These two cabinets are under our sink. So you can under the sink is where you keep extra soap, extra trash bags, extra little cleaning rags. what are some things that you put underneath US you'll find cleaning supplies. We also have a blend soups, we can blend smoothies, you can blend And also a rice cooker. Rice cookers are but I don't know why not because they're so handy. We use it for steaming some like and it also doubles as a slow cooker. So this is a And you can just put whatever you want to slow that's common in other places, but in the US it's So a lot of Americans will not have a rice it looks pretty similar. Usually it has a glass heavy duty pot and it's electric. And you can put vegetables and broth and you just push go to work and you come home and it's all finished So you can use it as a slow cooker. If I recommend looking up some recipes with it. It's around for a long time, but the idea of having a has always been popular. So a lot generations. It's a pretty cool device to have. it works. This opens and whoa, this spins. When so cool, I can't wait to use this. And the bottom goods. So you saw some of the dry goods up on the display. We do eat those, but it just kind of and vinegar, and tomato paste, and rice, and but we don't need to keep them on the counter. A this is like a closet in your kitchen where In this house, we don't have a pantry. So we cabinet. It could just be a circle that you put Lazy Susan. You might see this at restaurants, but this is also called a Lazy Susan. I if your name is Susan, you're not lazy. It's just it's really helpful for being able to access a We're almost finished, horah. These In these drawers, we have our most used kitchen they might be similar to what you have in your stirring things that we're put your garlic in here. And when you press it nice and fine and juicy, it's really great. I hate Then we have a whisk, this is a plastic but a lot of whisks are metal. They might have you can ladle, we can use it as a verb too. I'm a soup ladle. You might call this too a soup Next, this is just a little scraper for our rice the rice with it. This isn't so common in other cooker, you probably have something like this. opener. So you have to do this by hand. When I was and it was a little device that stuck on one with a magnet and just pushed a button. And actually, our cat, the cat that we don't have couple years ago, but the cat that I grew up with, would often open cans of tuna with the can opener. he would run downstairs and wait, And usually my dad would give him some of but that sounds of the electric can opener All right, next, we have some more tongs. These this kind of vegetable peeler that has this but in a lot of houses in the US you're going to kind of comes out like a knife. I like this maybe you have something different in your house. This is a silicone spatula, and this is a metal and this is another spatula, but you could use it a scraper, you might call it a spatula. I think Even though technically this, this device flip eggs, you can flip things with this spatula. some bread dough, or if you're mixing but we'd still call this a spatula, if I think but I'm pretty sure we just call this as spatula. for lighting candles and whatnot. All right, let's So if you watched our other video with, from mentioned a couple of times. In our old apartment, Personally, I prefer that because you can see the All of these, all I see is the black lid. what is this? What is this? What is we'll probably have a more useful way to store but for now they are in the store with some tea things. But this is where we store our spices. a weird angle to show you. But in the bottom need in the kitchen. So there are small plastic this type of bag, and we'll call this a Ziploc but some people still call it that even though Ziploc is the brand, but you might just use a have some plastic bags, I have some reusable cloth to use these for cheese because it's just nice to There's also some extra garbage bags in here. in english? There are plenty of names, but Some people might say cling wrap. I'm sure there wrap on something, I've tried a lot of instead of plastic wrap, but really plastic wrap in here, aluminum foil. Aluminum foil, You might put this on a dish when you're baking warm. It's a lot of different uses for that. wax paper or parchment paper. So technically a different item for wax paper, but some people paper, but this is what you can put down on your don't have to clean it up that much. So usually just lessen the mess afterwards. And last but for cooking. Mine are hung up really high right But it's really nice to be able to have them hung where we want to put these. As you of other things. So it's really handy If somebody tall comes to our house, they So we hang up our pots, little pots. stainless steel pans, and we also have a non-stick to help it to not stick. On this side, this this is called a wok. You're maybe familiar it's supposed to be non-stick, but it is quite But all of these are pots and pans. You might also because it's small. Some people call that a or a pan. So there's simple words, there's more for these types of things, but I hope that it will Before we get started. I want to explain some these three words, bathroom, restroom, washroom. Can you guess which two we use? You just heard me there is a difference between these, a bathroom comfortable location. And a restroom is usually in your office. If you need to go to the bathroom, more formal. It's a little more indirect, it's in the restroom, I'm just resting. So we use to talk about bathrooms in a more formal setting. I've ever heard anyone use this. I could be wrong. in Canada, they often say washroom, but anytime is what they say in the UK. Please just understand I only know what I've experienced here in John and water closet. Well, we do use talk about this room. We never say I'm going to And loo, we never say loo in the US. Also John, But this expression water closet, if you saw this you're at a restaurant and you're looking for the you know that, that's the bathroom? You might be on a bathroom door and it just means that's the words to talk about the bathroom. For example, And these are always, usually said with that this is a very high class way to say bathroom. you might say, excuse me, where's your lavatory? that'd be kind of funny. Or you might say, I And I think this is something that we don't a little joke, oh, I need to go make sure that the powder room, or you might hear the girls this is talking about the bathroom. If you to the bathroom, you might ask where's the we don't really say where's the boys room. I think are more indirect about these types of things. silly expressions used with the bathroom. Port-a-Potty and port-a-John. Do you I would be very shocked. These are a port-a-Potty you would see it at a park, or maybe if you go have an actual bathroom structure or some these types of facilities. All right, now that we you can use bathroom or restroom, and let's get Let's start off by talking about this. Here, we but generally that's kind of a more formal word. called a sink basin. Also, we have the faucet and only have one, but you might see some bathrooms At the bottom, this thing inside here, down you might say, plug the drain. I need so that I can plug the drain and fill up the you're going to find some plumbing. Plumbing are and then away from your drain. Notice that the going to be talking about these items a little bit place in the bathroom. All right, here we are by in the US, we always call this the toilet. We So on the toilet, we have two lids, this the seat, which can also go up. And this is Put the seat down. And this is what a lot of wives I'm curious if you have ever had this discussion have here, this is the toilet bowl, you can or the toilet handle, because we can push this toilet, when you're finished. To flush the toilet, on our toilet, it is this thing, it is a bidet. but it is certainly not a well-known feature of I have lived abroad, we know about bidets. Also around the toilet, you will see there is freely. And we have a toilet brush, for cleaning you can see on this side, we have our toilet paper you. Do you have your toilet paper coming over For me, I prefer it like this coming from the top, this. Sometimes on the back of the toilet, you always call these Kleenex. This is the brand, but of item. Or for us, we have a baby, so we have We have one more thing, this. Do you It is called a Squatty potty. I from somebody in my city, online. Somebody online put under your toilet. Does anyone want to So I met her at a gas station, kind of felt like She said, are you here for the Squatty potty? and she gave me the Squatty potty. And we left. body supposedly to be in a better position so that actually works or not, but it's something that I Next, let's talk about the shower or the tub. Now house. In this bathroom, we do not have a tub. Otherwise, I would show you a tub, Most bathrooms have a tub and then there is also curtain. A shower curtain is a kind of cloth that doors. You can barely see them in the video, but spraying everywhere in our bathroom. and sometimes the shower head is detachable, or also a shower handle where you can turn on the on right now. So I don't get too wet. In have these glass doors. When they get wet, it's accumulate on the sides. So we will squeegee them noun. This is a squeegee, and I need to squeegee This is my three-year-old son's favorite activity but we do this to take care of our shower. On There is shampoo, conditioner. There's also liquid shower or you might have some kind of shower little abrasive pieces in it to scrub your skin. or a wash cloth to wash their body. We have this it's not the same one from Korea, but it's this it's a little bit scratchy and you can kind On the wall of our shower, we have tiles. like this look, but they don't like taking care you have to occasionally clean the grout in your and scrape it. You need to do something. We have having to rinse, spray it on your shower once week, if I remember, but you can spray it on the scrub them. I don't know. We'll see what happens, You might notice here in the bottom of our Americans keep a little toy turtle in the bottom kidding. It's my son's toy. One more thing is you is generally in a more public place like in a gym showering at the same time. A shower stall There might be a shower curtain. There but this is kind of a more public thing. So talk about the bath shower area in your house. we have several types of towels. One type of towel on a hook, or you might have a towel rack or have these little hooks to hang our towels on. this previously that you might use this in the in the morning or in the evening and I hang it on might have is simply a hand towel. All of these washcloth, I guess you could wash anything with wash with a hand towel? You use it to dry your air out in between washings. items which might be in your bathroom. On our I have some hair ties, my glasses, some deodorant, contact case. I have my jewelry. There On the other side, we have a soap dispenser Inside that toothbrush holder is a toothbrush toothbrush. There is some floss, some more lens cleaner and another glasses lens cloth. closet or some shelves for linens. If this is we still call this a linen closet. Linens are our messy, a little bit disorganized, but it's okay. other side of that linen closet is another shelf types of things and we could call this a medicine You're going to see that in just a moment. closet and these are some extra bathroom items. bathroom is some contact solution. This goes some contact lens solution. You might also have some reason, we have them. Instead of Q-tips, or cotton rounds. Sometimes people use these to but you might have other kinds of cotton in tweezers and fingernail clippers. These are the fingernail clippers, or you might have a filing your nails. Occasionally, this is called an awful lot in my life, but if someone said, what they were talking about, but it's not as right? It's a nail file for filing your nails. comes with some extra razorblades. I think This is his razor. We also have some shaving don't know if this is true in your house, but my than Dan's side of the counter. I think in his But on my side, there are quite a few some different bottles of potions, like makeup but it can be used as like a toner for your clips and some things for my hair like but these are called bobby pins and you can In the bathroom, there's also a curling iron straightener or you might have a hairdryer. Do ago because the hairdryer I had before that I have old, is amazing. No, I guess older than that, but I can't believe it lasted that long. It was it lasted a long, long, long time and finally it Hopefully, this one will also last for 15 years. what's called air drying. So you might say, I this is the opposite of using a hairdryer. I need Generally, they say that air drying your hair is for a while and then if I'm going to go to bed and a little bit, just to kind of make it so that I'd like to talk about in the bathroom is laundry might be in a laundry basket. You might call this hamper. It feels a little bit old fashioned, but where some places say hamper, some places is kind of soft, but you might have a hard is dirty laundry and this just means dirty put it in the washing machine and then after that, Oh, good morning. It's time to make the bed. got to pull up the sheets, pull up the comforter, Now it's time to change the sheets. All right, Got to wash the pillowcases, take the comforter Take the fitted sheet off the bed. I got to put I got to scrub down the tub and the shower of cleaning solution and scrub the walls, scrub drain is where the water goes down. Maybe I'll All of these are important parts Next is everyone's favorite thing, cleaning just like we use with the tub and the shower. You a scrub brush, scrubbing around a little bit and into the toilet bowl, letting it sit for a little the toilet bowl. Maybe you'll scrub behind the We have so much laundry in our hamper. It's your dirty clothes. Take them out of thing that you use to carry your dirty laundry We got to load the laundry into the washing this. We could just simply say, put laundry say load the washing machine. I need to load the So I'm loading things in and what do Let's imagine it's finished washing. Well, you There's a couple items that we use. This is detergent to talk about the soap that you put into the washing machine, and then when it's done, might hang it on a clothesline. A clothesline is usually outside, or you might have a clothes rack. hang your wet clothes on to dry but here in It's pretty interesting why some other countries do you have a dryer? Do you use a dryer often? every single time and as you can see, these are countries I've lived in, you have a small washer, in the US, they're pretty big. So then we'll and we'll put them into the dryer. Here you load the dryer from the front. So if you'll definitely hear these terms. Front-loading but this is a top-loading washer. Those are just There's a couple other items that some people You might use dryer sheets. These are just your clothes get softer. Dan and I, I don't like it's essential. We don't use them, but after the laundry is finished drying? You and put them maybe in a drawer or put them in the bedroom or wherever you're going to put them away. and then put it away. It's a great Whose job is it in your house to prepare the you prepare a meal, you might need to make a meal down Monday through Sunday and you decide, what spaghetti. What am I going to eat on Tuesday? write down each day so that when you go grocery decide all of the things that you need to So I'm curious, do you make a meal plan and who finished preparing the meal, maybe after you the counters or we could say the kitchen counters. down. This phrasal verb wipe down is useful for counter. You can wipe down the bathroom counter. wipe down a lot of surfaces and it just means you What do you have to do after you cook? You got to or you might use some kind of steel wool, you might use a scrub brush, or you might use a here, but you might use a sponge. You wash them with some soap or some dish soap, You might air dry them, so we could put them means you just set the things here to dry and you might have a dishwasher. It's true, So you can load the dishwasher. It's the same in the dishwasher. We don't call this simply the the washer is for clothes and the dishwasher is So you might put them on the top shelf, maybe silverware rack at the bottom and you load up and it's done, so easy. So if you don't have a you need to set them in the drying rack. You've Whose job is it in your house to take out do every day. Maybe it's something that you mother-in-law's trash, aha, I did it, open. Maybe it's something that you need to do daily. You can and maybe you put it in a dumpster. Maybe take the trash bag out. If you're already taking recycling too. This is another great phrasal verb. take out the trash, take the trash out, or What about your refrigerator? Or we can call it that you do. The first simple step might be to wipe down the fridge. It means inside you're a lot of food in your fridge. My mother-in-law exciting whenever we come to visit, but you might so you need to go through the fridge and clean taking things that are old or expired and throwing or there's another great clean word we might use. and the fridge. Deep clean means you take You make sure that it's spotless, it's clean and You put the things back that you want to. the fridge. For me, that isn't really happening deep cleaned our fridge was when I was pregnant &quot;Our kitchen smells so terrible. I can't go in It didn't smell terrible and so I asked him, freezer? There's something that smells terrible It was just my nose because I was pregnant. But good for our fridge. It didn't really help me for this moment, you can deep clean if you want If you have any hardwood floors or linoleum with a broom and you need to sweep the floor, or maybe a dog, you need to sweep three times Something that's really common and easy to use if actually the brand, but in English, we say, &quot;I'm or, &quot;I'm going to get the Swiffer,&quot; which is that is the Swiffer brand cloth and you It might be dry and it kind of picks be wet and you can kind of easily mop the floor. a mop or maybe two maps. My mother-in-law has two the liquid, the moisture. You might dip it the floor. That's usually what Dan does when he mops around it. You might mop the floor with your Then after you're done, you might dry it up with you just dry it up with that. Here you saw that You could say, &quot;I'm going to dry the floor with phrasal verb. I'm going to dry up the liquid on I can't remember the last time I used one of around your house, you might want to use a duster &quot;I need to dust,&quot; or, &quot;I can't find my duster.&quot; dust on the mantle, or maybe on some shelves water the plants. This is not a watering can, this mother-in-law's watering can, but you can imagine unless you're me and I always forget to water household words, you know that all the plants They're not living, but she has a green thumb because she has remembered to water them. you'll need to wash the windows. You might use a so that you can get the window wet and then it has that's usually rubberized and that's called it like that and then all of the water flows off perfect device for this. I don't have one of these but you might need to wash the windows and that a lot of these words that we're using for This is a squeegee, but I can also say I'm So there's a lot of interchangeableness and this you can use it in two ways so it's kind of a need to clean up or tidy up. Tidy up means you're a kid, you're probably constantly tidying themselves, but you'll probably be tidying thumb. So here I am, tidying up or just generally Another thing that you might do infrequently is called the baseboards or the moulding. Moulding around a doorframe or it's on the wall somewhere, So you might just wipe down the moulding. ironed. This is an iron and we're a noun and as a verb. This is an iron, on an ironing board. Honestly, I can't remember 15 years ago. This isn't really something, and don't be fooled, it's not even plugged If you have a carpet, you might not need a broom You will need a vacuum because you will need to or maybe you have a rug. A rug is one that You might need to vacuum the rug or If you have a garage where you put your car, at garage. Clean out means like we said with the what you have in there is only essential. This five years, once every 10 years but at some You also might just want to clean up the garage. are in the boxes that they should be in. A lot you put your car there, but they might things that they don't use that often so at some Congratulations on finishing this long two that you were able to learn about how to talk empower you to have the right words to say at free PDF worksheet for this lesson. You can click review everything that you've learned you can reference that worksheet. I hope it Can you let me know in the comments, which one of some of them were a review. You were familiar with word again. But which one of these words did you Let me know in the comments, will be very in your vocabulary. Let's learn about it wait to see what you have to say and I'll here on my YouTube channel. Bye. PDF worksheet for this lesson. With this and never forget what you have learned. You forget to subscribe to my YouTube channel