On December 7, 1941, the announcement of the on Pearl Harbor shocked But in London, within the General Staff of there is also a new wind of hope rising. of the United States should finally the Allies and the Axis powers. de Gaulle received from the a worrying secret telegram. He reports I fear a secret combination between land American troops. Free France prepare to landing of American troops in behind this hypothetical threat? And the French from Oceania play in the war all starts several months New Caledonia, the New Hebrides EFO - the French Establishments of Oceania are some confetti of the Pacific Ocean. For residents, life Thousands of kilometers from the metropolis and in the cinema, through the rare On the eve of the Second were considered a bit like the cemetery of very peripheral in the French Empire, where territories, in quotes, considered But suddenly, after the debacle and the armistice, voice of a French resistance. French consists in continuing the The French in the Pacific were among the The BBC, British radio, relayed Because in the Pacific, the United Kingdom former colonies independent since the Fiji, and Solomon Islands, and especially Australia British Crown. Reacting to de Gaulle's call, the capital of New Caledonia, Men and women converged in a atmosphere of joyful fair. British flags. And their voices proclaim The governor of New Caledonia, George also announced his intention to continue the fight the world the most fervent patriots of The governor of New Caledonia must the mainland and which is in fact very close to Rather, there is a kind of for these territories, for the survival of relations with the British. Because if in British decide to isolate these territories, In London, at the stammering General Staff whatever the reasons... This mobilization They don't have many tricks up their that constitutes a very important issue because we will be able to derive a sort of legitimacy from the control these territories De Gaulle understood this immediately. This could be one of the first keys to assert himself as a But a dramatic event On July 3, 1940, the British attacked at Mers El Kebir. They want to prevent these &quot;Here are the victims of the despicable aggression that has ever been committed...&quot; Vichy denounces the treachery of the British. In London, De Gaulle, for his part, was furious It existed before Mers El Kebir and there even more, a sort of distrust in the face of French sailors to British sailors. The French in New Caledonia are The debates agitate the population. Can they A few days later, they the proclamation on the island of the first Their governor, Georges Pelicier, The temptation to continue the fight, in loyalty and loyalty For de Gaulle, t0. The prospect of a worse! If New Caledonia finally decides risk seizing this pretext to Australia has always been suspected French island. She communicated her She fears that the nickel, exploited France's sovereignty in the is in a bad position... But surprise! the Free French Headquarters in from the New Hebrides. From Henri Sautot, French Resident Commissioner in to General de Gaulle, in London: Hebrides has made it known, through its - That it is unshakeably determined to support even by sending combatants. and in all respects, the authority of like the population, lines up under its flag. The official rallying of the New Hebrides to the Free France is certainly very modest compared There are only 180 French settlers France and Great Britain. Mostly small But they were the first, in the Gaulle. The first to offer This success is to be credited to Henri Saut, an official of the Ministry of most important governors of the Empire. He is the as in a way a second division, very interesting is that in the De Gaulle then decides to use swing New Caledonia definitively in his Because during these months of July and August 1940, The administration is certainly officially and women defy the authority of the governor. sign petitions. Some The governor is afraid. He asks A few days later, a warship, the Dumont d'Urville, sailed towards Noumea, De Gaulle's General Staff in London tries the ship's crew, by appointing the From Muselier, head of the second officer. You are appointed to the Command crew and your beautiful vessel which joins the The Dumont d'Urville's response From the Commander, of the Dumont d'Urville: &quot;SHIT&quot;. Failed for intimidation. De Gaulle At the end of August 1940, he to Noumea. He obtained from Churchill that the to repel, if necessary, an attack While Saut sailed towards September 18 to 19, 1940, the bushmen, the an insurrection on the island. Several Georges Baudoux is one of them. He says: The residents are coming out of the houses. The trying to follow us. The crowd shouts and screams. look at all these trucks, look at general delirium. So many people, so many people. The Supported by the population, the men, surrounded the governor's residence, In the port, the crew loyal to Petain from don't dare open fire. On this morning of September 19, Sautot is Facing the Australian cruiser, the Dumont Henri Saut then boards a canoe. The camera of Auguste Mercier, a resident Accompanied by the crowd, Sautot decides to These previously unpublished images are among the the symbol of Free France. rises a notch... Georges The governor's welcome is frosty. - Mr. Sautot, you are a traitor and you really want to announce to the crowd that you A shout from outside responds: "We The governor finally gives in, and Caledonians, I have come to you, sent by to help you achieve without delay Free France, according to the almost unanimous wish of the With 0 inhabitants, and almost 0 km2, the that of the New Hebrides, is an It considerably strengthens its legitimacy. also voted almost unanimously in a referendum Seen from the side of Free France, it is an extraordinary opportunity the scale of the French Empire of course, to spectacularly. . This is absolutely essential, because finally someone proposes "From the New Hebrides came French Empire... And everyone experienced the admirable New Caledonia and the that under the leadership of their leaders, Mr. of Cureton, Mr. Administrator Cuter, in place vast resources and Life can return to a more But not for long... From the beginning of 1941, the French with another question: the Japanese threat. The troops of the Empire of the Rising Sun after their invasion of Manchuria on the borders of the Western colonies. Dutch East Indies. They and have been allied since the pact of In retaliation, the Americans and the Allies Caledonians are at the forefront in the event of And it's not the few soldiers on The Australians, worried, offered New Caledonia themselves. Destitute, The Caledonians saw an Australian military mission land in March 1941 there with kindness, the soldiers installed local personnel in the use of weapons, and in London, de Gaulle was wary. Won't these Australians The General immediately takes care to limit We absolutely must obtain and of the Australian seaplanes, based in of the French Superior Commander. We and other Australians. They must not our forces or in their employment. They must be The reaffirmation of this important as the United States continued, diplomatic relations with the regime of Marshal When Washington decided to open a to Free France, that the request was sent. stopover in Tahiti, it is always to Vichy To strengthen the visibility of General de Gaulle then organized the raising of a The enthusiasm is there. Nearly 600 volunteers responded to they paraded through town before embarking The crowd and Henri Saut came Australians welcome the event. To embody the authority and prestige distant territories, de Gaulle also decided Georges Thierry d'Argenlieu, as d'Argenlieu arrived in Noumea on November 5, 1941. He immediately set to work, never forgetting propaganda images, alongside all the symbols of D'Argenlieu is a character who is he is both a naval officer and in 1919, he resigned from the And in 1939, he was mobilized and But he is not necessarily welcome... that d'Argenlieu requisitions And Saut is upset that de Gaulle D'Argenlieu asks the British and But the latter ignore this, and issues with the D'Argenlieu's position is complicated. However, De Gaulle reaffirms the "I am convinced that the to play a capital role in this war, the largest because they dominate the major maritime and air routes which from America and the Far East lead to In August 1941, de Gaulle's cabinet received a The Government of Her Majesty {the Queen the authorities of the military air forces in concert with our services, to establish capable of receiving New Zealand, Australia, Among the island groups targeted are De Gaulle has a vision, a quite astonishing... He actually has a vision in the war and of the future after the When on December 7, 1941, the the destiny of Because not only did the Japanese destroy a but in less than 6 months, they The air and maritime routes, which pass to the South Pacific - that is to say, New Caledonia - are becoming essential! costs, to hope to contain the Japanese, and But, if they want to settle or make a they must first obtain De Gaulle demands a counterpart from the official recognition of and the inalienable sovereignty Roosevelt, who nicknames de Gaulle, the crazy, the fanatic, can he refuse First, the Americans are During the Arcadia Conference, between December decided without delay to send an When d'Argenlieu in Noumea discovered the Nothing to add regarding America. everything that interests it without any compensation between America and Australia to the landing of American troops. D'Argenlieu took up this intransigence of well to his character too, this intransigence d'Argenlieu took it up on his own And so, he American landing if this landing is not authorized D'Argenlieu is talking nonsense, that is of opposing American soldiers, Caledonia. Whether de Gaulle said yes or no confronted with a power of which we have no wished to build these landing the wishes of the free French, they would have De Gaulle is aware of this. But he continues I think that the Americans are want to calm things down. it's very important, but on the part will you? I'm exaggerating, but... A give you the piece of paper.&quot; If all this mess On February 23, 1942, the the long-awaited declaration... The French Islands of Oceania are under established in London, and the authorities of the with the authorities established by this French National Committee General de Gaulle rejoices: In the current circumstances, we We therefore no longer have any reason to prevent necessary for the defense of our territories, and So for De Gaulle it is a real first official recognition on the part of the territories. This is the first step towards De Gaulle immediately respected his authorization to set up a base in life of the French people in the Pacific In February 1942, the inhabitants of the atoll the construction unit of the American army. It is a revolution for these Polynesians, until then isolated, a They discover canned beef, The Americans are building a a port, a water supply network, an On March 12, 1942, it was the turn of the The inhabitants of Noumea saw no less than 0 They take to the streets to including with General In a single day, the population of the city of Noumea doubles. of Henri Saut a few months I had the impression of dreaming. It intense emotion emerged from this spectacle. the disembarkation, a band plays Around 5 p.m., a company of women with all their emergency equipment. were necessary to unload the the rations, not to mention the tens A large parade is organized to All Caledonians are there to applaud. 10 to 20 men and women, Americans are stationed in New Caledonia, which Noumea becomes the second The Americans are again building water and electricity networks. In remote many of whom have never known learning their first Under the eyes of the inhabitants , brand new rolling stock, or along the beaches, the first And the Caledonians do not miss an On the General Staff side, the Americans by admitting Free France and Argenlieu "I am certain that the bonds which continue until the end, in a feeling of I mean until the victory of the But despite this perfect facade, political relations The administration of Free France is quickly De Gaulle reminds D'Argenlieu that to From now on, I would like to the fact that currency is one of the It is obvious that the considerable significant quantity of American notes, and that you population as well as the troops to It is therefore important that your expenditures made... by the Soon d'Argenlieu finds himself alone against everyone. Governor Saut, far too He asked de Gaulle to fire Henri Saut. D'Argenlieu plays De Gaulle without having the short, and political talent in particular, absolute intransigence towards the Americans without must face. The United States in the spring of waking up. And that's why More and more the intention the French Authorities is revealed. They seek to eliminate by aggravating the agitation of the population of and especially the measures that I had to But the Caledonians do not agree at all. of the island. The announcement of his dismissal had May 1942. The crowd gathered to protest against Sautot's departure. D'Argenlieu, visiting a is held hostage in his While the Americans have barely Coral Sea - located a few of Caledonia - the French are tearing each other apart... The Americans, stunned, must take martial law and ask de Gaulle The humiliation for d'Argenlieu is total, and with him the entire credibility of the De Gaulle, weakened, denounced for American imperialism". It reaffirms Free France "I say that without French resistance, war. But it remains to ensure with France. I say France, that is a single territory, a single At the same time, General Patch launched in the first American land counterattack The Pacific War has experienced naval air clashes in the Coral Sea and at Midway in On Guadalcanal, losses but the victory marked for the first In New Caledonia, the inhabitants reconquest of the Pacific which is beginning. hired in the island's hospitals which They participate in care or logistics. The quiet atmosphere of certain the trauma of the soldiers they encounter. To distract them, young Caledonian women They go there accompanied by and sometimes manage to But this almost romantic picture Soldiers are not children at dazzling smiles are sometimes accompanied by rape, Fortunately, this violence remains on Caledonians know What will remain, if you like, is the of the Americans on the New Caledonians, that is to that this country, the United States, could help For the Canaque, or Wallis, or New Caledonia, the arrival of the can sit, eat, work with the to forced labor as before the war. what the French colonists gave them. American army, for the first time they see Never has such consideration Jean Waia is one of them. He I came from Mare. I was 18 years old. others, consisted of unloading American equipment in and my salary was 1,500 francs per month. camps: one for the Broussards, one one for the people of Ouvea. We, the Kanaks, had It destabilizes the way the economy, the way change in relations between the In 1943, then 1944, everywhere the In the Pacific, the fighting is now taking place American military priorities from They are relegated to the rank The pressure around the geostrategic issues But de Gaulle must remain vigilant. at the Tehran conference in November become a simple mandated territory, And in several reports, retaining: "installations essential to The remarks made by a certain number President Roosevelt on the necessary today decolonization - we will say French empire after the Second War world therefore extremely worrying for de Gaulle these pieces of empire are a question, De Gaulle remains very, very hostile to the Americans, pitfalls for poor free France, then for the provisional government of the was not officially recognized by the big three The news of the landing in relief by the Caledonian population. on everyone's faces, and tears are flowing. came to collect the impressions of a While Europe was liberated, the Americans After the use of the atomic bomb 9, 1945, Japan capitulated on September 2. &quot;Here are those who are going to sign the curious and mind-blowing procession that mixes the dramatic a paper that we sign. And then silence, because silence alone suits the gesture On board the battleship Missouri in Tokyo Bay, a major figure of the Free French Forces, the Americans, the act of capitulation of Japan unanswered. The Americans Will they finally decide to impose their , Leclerc is on the boat to sign it's about organizing for the post-war period. We're will be the ally of the United States and the United Kingdom enemy, who was the ally throughout the second In 1944, 1945, mass was said. France In Noumea, the victories of the allies The children are dressed in American uniforms, these heroes of the war, of the But now preoccupied with Stalin, these definitely abandoned all ambitions to maintain bases on the Their troops left New Caledonia in and its intransigence, refused to buy back will prefer to repatriate or destroy them, rather But their passage will have left an still bear the names of American military installations retained its runway, built by the Seabees, de Gaulle paid tribute to the role of the Pacific that these territories and populations Free France. But it is above all a and of giving France the illusion of