- Today I wanna share three while you're decluttering. (soft music) Question number one, do I need it? Does it function for me in We all need clothes to wear, dishes and utensils to eat off of. Those are things that we need in our life. And some of the things that we need, we might not really have I don't necessarily have to my pizza cutter, but I do So, it's something that I need. Number two, do I love it? I have many decorations in my house. They're not something that I need. I don't have to have in order for my home to function the way that I need it to function. But I do have things that I enjoy looking at them. I enjoy the way they make the house feel. And I do have some sentimental items that put a smile on my face. Number three, does it help me live the This question has been very 'cause we have a variety Basically, we have our past selves, the people that we used to be, maybe the people who were in high school, in college during different careers, during different relationships. And we have all these things whatever it is. They brought value to us And then we have the future person, the what we want to be. The who I'm going to be when I retire or when I win the lottery or or when I do have kids, And we have this all our future selves. And we have the fantasy self, And you should definitely I'll put that in the video description. But the fantasy self is the person that we're We like the idea of but it's for us. I like the idea of homesteading. I like the idea of being an urban farmer, of turning my whole yard into a garden and having little animals in the backyard. And my reality doesn't fit with that. I don't wanna have to be tied to animals that I have to take care of every day. And I don't wanna deal with the manure that comes with animals. So, it's something that's at in my mind, but I am never going to take the time to do all of that work. So, that is for sure my fantasy self. But all these different future self, fantasy self. They shouldn't be our determining factors on what we keep in our home. The person that gets to determine and what occupies our time the person you are today, the person you're going to So, when I look at this, I think, okay, I am still right in And now starting the as a grandparent. So with my youngest is seven, my young adult children and I want my focus to be on the relationships that I have with these family members. So, when I look at myself, the goals and the things I want for the next one to five years, I want my priorities to learning more about him and feeding my family real food. Those are the three main in my life. Of course, there's all that I like doing, that I want to do. I'd love to pursue different things, but realistically, this And if I try to do too many So, I've narrowed it down And then I can ask that Does this help me live the In my case, yes, this and I cook real food with it. So, it fits in one of my priorities. But then if I come to an item that doesn't fit any of my priorities, maybe it's for the high school Rachel, maybe it's for the retiree Rachel, maybe it's for the fantasy Rachel, but it doesn't fit the present Rachel. So then I can evaluate, is this worth the time Because all of our stuff It takes time, energy, emotions. And if for past Rachel, well, with that stuff anymore. And if it's for retiree Rachel, I'm pretty sure that when I finally retire and I can devote time to I can figure it out then. And the fantasy Rachel, that stuff just makes me feel guilty about spending money on stuff that I'm never actually going to use or reminding me that I'm inadequate and I'm not following my dreams. Minimalism is really and getting down to the real you. And if the real you really that's fine. Get rid of the rest of the This is an opportunity for us to determine what the life and go for it, to get rid of all the material possessions that have been weighing us down and holding us back from rearranging and organizing might give us a sense of but it doesn't help us live the life that we want to be living. Because at the end of our life, we're not gonna look back and be like, &quot;Oh, I'm so glad my attic It's not gonna matter in the end. So, we can let go of the excess, the things that are taking so much time. And we can use that free that we really want to be living. We can have a very cluttery house and still take time for our and do things with them and be present. But I know when I had a lot of clutter, that's where my mind was. I was always thinking about the things that I need to be taking care of, the things that need to be So, when we get rid of that we're trying to manage, we don't have that long mental-to-do list. We can do our daily necessities keep it manageable, and then have that free time and our grandchildren without of all the things that when we get home. So there we are. Three questions. Do I need it? Do I love it? Does it help me live the If you would like to I invite you to the Clutter-Free Army. I send out a weekly PDF with six, 10-minute missions questions to ask and an area to focus on in your decluttering without I'll put the information in and don't forget to check I'll put it right up here. Thanks so much for watching. (soft music)