I've done a couple of videos about relativity could say that I'm on a relativity kick. In one of my videos, I showed that relativistic device that has some value in terms of building than it's worth. In the comments of that video, people asked in the momentum equation. By the way, another And that's a really good question. After science, equations should lead to an understanding It turns out that there is more than one answer is no doubt going to annoy some of you, I'm the next video. But wait! Don't click away! There's a The reason is that unless you've had a class just kind of comes at you from out of the video a perfectly fine way to understand the of knowing that in an upcoming video you'll So, what I thought I'd do in this episode class in special relativity. Now you guys we're going to go for it. Einstein started with two postulates when The first is that the laws of physics are with respect to one another at constant speed. second postulate is that the speed of light Now that last one is the thing that causes all, it flies in the face of common sense. will say that the ball isn't moving. However, per hour, a person on the side of the road per hour. By the way, that's 100 kilometers Common sense says that Einstein's second that he is right and see the consequence. We'll start with a railroad car, a mirror, One observer is in the railroad car. She simultaneously across the car into the mirror, which then it returns, she stops the stop watch. She's If the width of the train car is W, then the because it goes there and back. And if you the light beam to travel back and forth, the velocity. We use the symbol c for the speed T is 2 times W, divided by c. You'll note that the T has a subscript "stationary" mirror move. And, in case you are wondering of light, it's from the Latin word celeritas, Okay , so now let's have the train move thinks it takes for the light to leave the and return to her. Suppose that we say that call v. Now the absolutely, key, crucial, central the person outside the train also sees light And that changes everything. Classically, the way you learn about all other of light would be faster than c to the person the stationary observer said that light moved also moving at velocity v, we would then say moving along the hypotenuse of the triangle of c-squared plus v-squared. But this is simply Remember that the outside observer also says along the path they see, which is the hypotenuse the hypotenuse at c and along the motion of mirror at the speed of the square root of And if the velocity of light moving across it takes for light to cross the train and move is two times W divided by that speed, v-squared. Now if we remember our equation for T-stationary, with an equation for 2W, which we can then And finally we can factor out the c, and we So that's where the gamma comes from. Or are lots of similar derivations. What does it mean? Well if you put in any you find that gamma is a number greater than train move will think that the round trip is longer than the person sitting in the train. Now that might sound just utterly ridiculous- I first heard this when I was a teenager, less family friendly, words. It's partly that the world's scientists had gone mad- But it turns out that we can prove that this fact, I made another video showing how physicists perceived every single day. If you haven't So this brings us to the question I asked Well, we can solve for gamma and we see that when they see a clock moving to the time experienced Now, like I said before, this isn't exactly There's another explanation that I like so I thought I'd show you this approach some eye-opening truths about E = m c squared not the whole story. Okay, so you guys said that you were willing had more of them. I'm curious to know what did, please like, subscribe and share. And Well, I'll see you next time, and remember-