Fukuoka/Tenjin Area This time, we'd like to introduce you to Jeff, who is originally from France and aims to become a food stall owner.The food stall next to El Bahon, the multinational food stall where he is currently training for the first time in two months since the last Fukuoka location shoot, is a good fit for Jeff. Mr. Tadasuke is also helping out on standby FTJ staff: How long has it been since Jeff came to Japan? It's been about 4 and a half years since I came to Japan, and it will be 5 years in September. FTJ staff: Jeff, you're good at Japanese. No, you're still good at it, but it's hard to learn Japanese. In the Youtube interview, he said, Since I was training with lanterns, I have also worked with the French owner Remi-sanchi, a food stall called Jonetsu no Chidoriashi, and I have also helped out with Yatai Naka-chan, and I have also trained with red lanterns. This year too, there will be an open call for entries at a food stall in Fukuoka , so I'm looking forward to taking the test and taking on the challenge , but the test is difficult...I took an open call last year, but it didn't work out... because the test was in Japanese. Even though I study, it's difficult because of the language problem.When Jeff's food stall opens, I'd like to come again to take pictures.The exam is in August, and the results will be out in December.If I pass the exam, I'll be able to take pictures next year. The stall next door where you can start your own stall from spring is called Tadasuke-san, and the owner and proprietress are both very friendly.It was 17:00, so the stall owner and proprietress were on standby. Here we are, Mr. Jeff, who is helping with the transportation of heavy luggage and equipment. It's time for a little break until the general of Elbajon arrives. The general of Elbajon arrives with a truck loaded with food stalls. The food stalls of Elbajon are made of metal. The owner of El Bajon, a food stall that can be assembled using a wooden frame , has traveled to around 30 countries and opened the stall three years ago with the intention of serving food that he thought was delicious locally.The name of the stall, Bajon, is a Spanish word. The food stall's standby time is almost over, and the car is moved.The food stall is ready to go.Jeff -kun's regular apron patrons have been visiting the store for about 40 years, and have become familiar with Fukuoka's food stalls . When I was a senior , there were many food stalls lined up on this street , and there was a time when all the food stalls were lined up along this 2km one-way street.Due to generational changes, the food stalls of those days were replaced, and the culture has been on the decline. The current mayor of Fukuoka has focused on the yatai culture, and the yatai have continued for a long time , and now young yatai owners have taken over and run the yatai in Fukuoka due to their physical condition and the taste of their food. I'm glad that there are young people like Jeff here who are working hard to start food stalls. I think Fukuoka will become better as the building development and townscape change, and the culture of food stalls is combined. I also hope that many people, including those from overseas, will come to Fukuoka and use the food stalls.I hope that Jeff and the others will help to make the festival more exciting. Ajillo , a Jamaican local dish made with herbs and spices used in dishes such as chicken tacos, is slowly grilled over charcoal. Shrimp and mushroom ajillo has been cooked in various countries in the Americas, Central and South America, Europe and South Asia. I worked in about 30 countries in total, and when the time was over, I traveled to neighboring countries and trained at various restaurants . I wanted to make it myself, so I learned about it and came back with the recipe, and now I'm serving it at a food stall.It looks like a customer who visited Fukuoka on a trip.After eating the ingredients, I put an egg in the ajillo and added the egg. You can also enjoy the Ajillo snack service El Bajon will have been open for three years in August.Since we opened our food stall during the coronavirus pandemic, customers have been asking us if the number of customers has returned. ``I haven't experienced the pre-coronavirus situation, so it's just a matter of time.Hakata Motupon regulars keep coming in one after another.Taste of Jeff's hometown Crepe SalleA customer from France came and asked me how many times I had crepes. I was glad that they ordered a second helping of food.Maybe it's because it feels like French home-cooked food.Japanese crepes have an image of being sweet, but the famous jerk chicken is a popular dish that most customers order. Jeff's crepes are also extremely popular.The couple who came yesterday also gave us some at their food stall today.At first, I was traveling as a backpacker and soon found a job there, so I decided to go back. I worked at restaurants there , including Japanese restaurants and ramen shops.The longest time I spent there was in Chile, in South America.It's in Spanish, so the names of the food stalls are in Spanish.France El Bajon means ``I'm hungry'' in Spanish.I learned Spanish on the spot.A senior colleague who came to the store at opening time brought his Turkish friend with him.We had jerk chicken . The owner of the taco &quot;Jamexican&quot; used is fluent in languages, so the stall attracts many customers from overseas.Introducing the menu you can enjoy in El Bajon.They also offer the famous jerk chicken, curry, ajillo, and other menu items typical of a tacos Hakata stall. You can also try the crepes made by Jeff from France.We have introduced a variety of recommended menu items, so please enjoy the menu that you want to try.Speaking of food stalls in Fukuoka, Yaki Ramen El Bajon's Yaki Ramen is like no other. I got a slightly different impression from the food stalls, so I ordered it.Then , I had another curry dish that I was interested in.First , I started with the grilled ramen.Each stall has its own unique grilled ramen, but El Bajon's grilled ramen... The ramen is a dry type of fried ramen with little soup.It has a strong taste and aroma from the oil, giving it an exotic feel.A Sri Lankan curry that changes the ingredients on a whim, and uses 18 types of spices. It's a Sri Lankan curry that's sure to give you an authentic taste. It 's made with tender, tender chicken, served with high-quality curry saffron rice, and has a mild, fragrant, layered flavor of spices that will make you addicted to it. Among Fukuoka's food stalls, this multinational food stall is unique and offers dishes from various countries.Even if you are a regular at El Bahon, we recommend visiting this food stall for the first time in Fukuoka . This is a popular food stall that is crowded with the famous duo of the general and Jeff.