Excel now has an AI function called write your prompt in a formula. It can It runs on OpenAI, so essentially, it's It's available in Excel 2021 or later, or the Microsoft 365 license, and But first, let's take a look at some of the Here, I'm going to use it to return the Simply type in =LABS.GENERATIVEAI, it to return only the and then with an &amp; reference the airport name in column J. And just like And because it's a formula, I can edit the values being referenced For example, I'll change Toronto to Sydney The key is in how specific If I simply asked for the airport code, it would most likely return a which is not what I want. Alternatively, I can limit the number max_token argument. one token equals four characters in English. So, if I edit the prompt and remove the specification to return only and then add a max_token of one, I But, as you can see, the max _token We can also use LABS.GENERATIVEAI For example, let's say you need the USA along with their abbreviations, instead of copying them from the web, So, starting with the LABS function, I want to, &quot;return a comma-separated in the United States of Now, I need to wrap it in a TEXTSPLIT function to separate each state name into its own cell. And then, I need to use TRANSPOSE Now, keep in mind, the more data And there we go! Alright! Next, I'll write state abbreviation. to be clear that it doesn't And then concatenate the state name. Now, you might be tempted to use to reference the state names, but the GENERATIVEAI function So instead, I'm going to reference And there I have a list of the states and I'd ask it to return a two-column table but I found that it wouldn't separate common delimiter, despite me asking. While extracting lists of data LABS.GENERATIVEAI can also create new content for you. starting an online gadget store. in the store and you need a short description for and write them yourself, or use You can also look at the product specifications from the web using Here, I have a list of Samsung phones. &quot;return a short description for this product&quot; and concatenate the product name. structured references. In the next, to reduce the amount of randomness of the results. Now, at zero, the model should results. However, there is no guarantee. And now I have a list of let's get the specs. concatenate the product name. I'll use randomness with zero. Now it can take responses. So, you have to be patient. except there are a couple are released yet, even though they are. And here's the first problem. The AI models are only updated real-time information, which but something to be mindful of. Another use for the function is For example, here I have some on BYCOL and BYROW. And I'm going to ask it to analyze and classify them into &quot;positive&quot;, &quot;negative&quot;, and &quot;neutral&quot;. to summarize this text into and concatenate comment column. Now, there's a lot of text for it to sift through, It does a pretty good job, what to do when there's both positive and negative comments, as in the case of row 9. I'd probably classify this as they're complaining about Because the function can reference a cell, we can ask it to explain formulas that simply can't remember writing. Here I have a SUMIFS formula that's structured references, which but if you're not familiar with SUMIFS, then LABS.GENERATIVEAI can certainly help. I'm going to ask it Now, if I just reference the cell, which is 209,400. So, I need to use formula that's in the cell. And I'll use which will hopefully be better at understanding Okay, this formula is used in Excel for this is an Excel function that sums and then it talks about the different ranges being referenced, and then the last sentence, &quot;So the formula sums of the sales data table with a corresponding value, in the category column So, you can see, it did a pretty good job! I also used to explain a that calculates income tax system. And sometimes, it did a great job and other times it seemed half-way through, which may be due to my settings, The function is available to Excel 2021 Now, if you haven't already got the add-in, and search for Excel Labs, and then click far right of the Home Tab of the ribbon. Click open and under &quot;Configure you have to register an OpenAI account take you to get your API key. If you don't can specify the default model, temperature, maximum output length, and if you hover over the slider, an explanation of each setting through them. Of course, you using the optional arguments in the formula. If you get the #BUSY! error that eventually it can mean one of two things. You've either exceeded your to add funds to your OpenAI account. When you set up your OpenAI that last 30 days. But once you need to then add funds to your account. You'll find this information under the Now, if your account is funded and you're still In which case, you can try The LABS.GENERATIVEAI formulas appear for the most part to be volatile - recalculating edited, or structural changes rows and columns are made. To avoid this, paste output as values, or while writing the formulas, mode, via the Formulas tab. Just don't forget to recalculate recalculate the active worksheet, or by putting the workbook back The LABS.GENERATIVEAI function is just but there are actually loads which I've covered here and here, so check out those videos next. Thanks for watching. subscribe for more and I'll