Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian McCollum, and I am here today in Tallinn, Estonia, by gracious invitation of the Estonian Defence Forces, specifically the Support Command Supply Battalion. We are taking a look today at the brand new Estonian issue rifles. This is the R20 &quot;Rahe&quot;, There was actually a brief period various ordnance equipment So Hail, like hail stones. Anyway this is an LMT The story of this begins in 2017, the Estonian primarily with Galil rifles that had They were looking to replace those, they And frankly, they weren't They had been the first thing as a newly independent nation in the So the requirement, what the were a combination of both an infantry rifle The infantry gun in 5.56, the They wanted both guns So in this case ... LMT as well as an AR-10 pattern DMR, This procurement really began in 2017, that were offered from basically all of the This was filtered down to three finalists that met all of the technical requirements Those being H&amp;K with the 416, So some testing was done in 2018, and to a combination of price, field testing (reliability, accuracy, the warranty, the support and the accessories or the kit that were included. So in 2019 a contract is signed, of the standard service rifles Now they would purchase two The standard one which They also purchased a carbine Now these are a very substantial minority, The short guns are for kind of the the presidential ceremonial guard, those However I should say, what we have with all of the accessories And you would never actually see The standard configuration for the infantry Then additional equipment depending on mission and unit preference, a Holosun infrared laser and illuminator unit, an M203 grenade launcher (also made And the suppressors by the way are that will fit interchangeably as well as both the long and So let's go ahead and The R20 is fundamentally a Receiver markings here, These are all made in the United Cal 5.56, there's our model And a serial number. The serial number starts Since we're right here, just a quick look, Also made by LMT, it's a 40mm M203 pattern The rifles are supplied with Magpul PMAGs. Apparently there was an initial and the Estonians had &quot;Yeah, no, we'll take the Magpuls.&quot; One of the kind of cool novel elements to There is a computerised And the idea with this was if you maintain a you can design a pro-active to replace wear items like Implementation of this At this point apparently it is primarily being an understanding of how many rounds are The efforts to have a standardised military-wide has fallen victim to some bureaucracy But the idea of having a to record this data, frankly, that is far better than the old that guys have to theoretically fill out every The upper receiver has an &quot;EST-MIL&quot; marking, And on the other side an LMT Defence mark, These have changeable barrels. You could say quick change, but they're really not quick change, it requires a Torx and a torque wrench to remove If there's a problem with the barrel, you can headspacing issues the way The controls are completely ambidextrous. along with a bolt hold open and release, The guns are full-auto It's safe, semi and And then on the left side you the regular bolt hold open and release, The primary optic in service All of the Estonian stuff is marked with Estonian This is a specific Estonian pattern, in that it only offers So often on the Holosuns you can swap between The magnifier is just a standard commercial The laser module, available primarily has an illuminator on one side With a whole smorgasbord It's worth pointing out the Estonian So all of the regular infantry use the R20, Special Forces always and they have the option to take Whoo, alright, continuing on, there are an We have backup iron sights made by LMT, There's the rear one, so every The contract included a Blue Force Gear It's a really good service Like this is one of those elements of: The suppressor is a quick-attach type, locks You just push in against the spring, rotate it These are made by GSL in the United States, It's just a good, practical, durable suppressor. This is LMT's muzzle device, it works You have these two lugs The gas block on the R20 is not adjustable. There is a button down You can ... rotate the gas plug and ... this is There was a decision that had to be &quot;Like, we want to have an adjustable You want to be able to strict gas flow But you also want to limit a conscript's So do we give every rifle Or what they ended up two additional gas plugs So the suppressor fits on and it comes with a 7.62 and So if you are one of the specialist units, like you put in the suppressor gas plug, and then Otherwise if you're the regular infantry if you are not using a suppressor you don't Continuing with the gas block, This is something that wasn't it was added kind of at the last moment. So LMT modified their gas blocks Now of course this one you can't put a bayonet on but the grenade launcher is not a So take this off and you have a Although one interesting humorous thing: and a relatively large diameter muzzle And you've got these two lugs those are your attachment If they are in a roughly these can actually There's not quite enough space in there So ... the fix is you actually take off so that the locking lugs are more of a 3 and That said, this is all kind of a moot point, but they are really not commonly used, So as I said, the standard There was a short pattern that was also I don't have the complete just the upper to it, but except it doesn't have a bayonet lug So it's really not that much shorter, These are in high demand with guys, ... anyone who but it's frankly mostly because it looks cooler Alright, we'll take a Because this has the we actually have to remove the So there we go, there's our lower. We've got a nice coat of operating grease on this, There is no gas tube on it of course So you just have the operating right here, is going to impinge upon - like so. The first R20s arrived in Estonia in July of 2020. They were presented to the public, And then deliveries would take about So the final delivery arrived in late 2023. Estonia now has their full complement There has been some friction with Quality control, customer service, with basically any ... But in service the rifles What I like about this is it's a cool ... on really the very western European of maximising the effectiveness So this is a rifle that has everything you It is set up for a suppressor, everyone infrared designators are available for grenade launchers are available, And I think it really shows the importance that Estonia puts on maximising It's a small country. It has a very and it doesn't have the logistical capability to run a Russian-style defence program They have to make the most efficient and I think this is a perfect So a big thanks to the for giving me the opportunity to Hopefully you guys enjoyed the video.