[MUSIC PLAYING] LISA HARPER: OK. This is such a This is the very in Tennessee for Christmas. CHRISTINE CAINE: Listen, LISA HARPER: This I've seen you in pink, CHRISTINE CAINE: Now, this You know, in Australia, it's And so-- LISA HARPER: I know! It's so weird when you call me CHRISTINE CAINE: Yeah, what you should be-- LISA HARPER: No, no, CHRISTINE CAINE: Eating your celebrating. But here-- LISA HARPER: No, you and be on a porch CHRISTINE CAINE: be the first and last time you LISA HARPER: I'm so happy project together. Did you grow up with that? Well, yeah. You're Greek Orthodox. CHRISTINE CAINE: Yes. I mean, you know, for us-- LISA HARPER: Grew CHRISTINE CAINE: It so grew up Greek Orthodox. And one thing you have is when you come-- you're they hold onto traditions-- LISA HARPER: Sure. CHRISTINE CAINE: --so want to replicate And so for us, we didn't play. There was a prep-- you didn't LISA HARPER: Did you have those CHRISTINE CAINE: Now, Yes, we did. LISA HARPER: Oh, I'm so jealous. CHRISTINE CAINE: But Even more than the candles, LISA HARPER: I know! That's the whole thing. We had neighbors down the and had a bunch of kids. And I grew up-- you know, my And so there was something-- CHRISTINE CAINE: Does LISA HARPER: Well, no, Advent-- I don't really know why, but my to Advent. I mean, I grew up Advent was kind of wanted to celebrate it because I'd go over and they'd have five on the wall with all those and treats. And I thought, why do So I didn't the preparation to really have our hearts CHRISTINE CAINE: of course, because we We're all so busy, But I remember it really did introduced for my own girls with LISA HARPER: Of CHRISTINE CAINE: Because they're like, I'm like, have a chocolate. Yes. LISA HARPER: Right. But to help them, because I we tend to almost just instead of actually into Christmas to the fullness of the miracle. I think Advent is-- I think it's really imperative [MUSIC PLAYING] Thank y'all so much, so much for carving time out of Chris and I are calling this the That's what we're Informally, we're calling it Before I dive into I first wanted to thank y'all. I know I'm all up And I need to qualify this. Y'all, I'm a spitter. I don't mean to be, but I get the Bible, and I tend to spew. And so y'all are I'm not sure if y'all are. The good news is I don't I did during menopause. I developed the gift of just but now this will of a dribble than a downpour. So that's the good news. The second qualification is I Have any of you you wanted for Christmas OK, good, because we're if that was the case, is actually dealing that there's a poignancy There's a place acknowledge we need more we need more joy. One of my pretend theological he puts it like this. He says, &quot;The celebration of who are troubled in soul, who and imperfect, and who look to come.&quot; In other words, get that we have unmet get our own imperfections, maybe have wrestled with We're the ones who to celebrate Advent OK. I need y'all to trust me because I'm going to ask you that's going to sound It's called Malachi. It's the last book So turn to that book Malachi is the last of a section called the minor prophets. If y'all have you can call him &quot;Muh-lah-chee.&quot; I like that better. But Malachi is a That's just a fancy written after the Israelites-- God's people-- returned from 70 years of So the minor prophets before the silent year period. There's 400 years where we between the Old Testament The fancy word for that is So Malachi is the very last before you get to the New So kind of the divine And what's really is the literary it's nowhere else in scripture. It's the only book with this literary format. It's called rhetorical And all that means are fussing with God himself, they spent in they've been away They've been away from what They've been held Remember, God mandated in the to get together all the time. They had daily, weekly, I love that God encouraged I think keto is from, I love that they got Three times a year, God had to come back to Jerusalem, from all over the diaspora. That's just another I spent a ton of so I want to use the They had to come from, if they three times a year for Passover, of Tabernacles. They came back to Jerusalem, and they celebrated. They spent like a week They don't get to do that the 70 years, they don't get to come They don't get to have those So just imagine those and those Jewish in captivity trying and trying to encourage their and their granddaughters. Y'all, we promise it's It's not always going We know Babylon is hard. We know you're not getting But once we get when Yahweh restores everything's going We can't wait for y'all to to temple, to celebrate. The falafels are as The olive oil, it's You're going to love it. They sustained themselves one day, we're going to and everything's going And they get home to of incarcerated disappointment. And Jerusalem is not at all Instead of a dream, it has because the temple isn't It's been destroyed. The walls around the city beautiful stone walls, The city itself is ransacked. God's people get home you're kidding us. We've waited all this time And that's why they fuss at God. That's why you see six that God's people make I want to take a little trail for a second. Don't you love that he allowed I love that we don't God doesn't say, curate You can only bring perky, But he says when when you don't when you're lonely at Christmas, who's not sitting at the table bring that to me. Don't paste a happy like you're OK when you're not. Bring everything to me. I'm undone. I'm so encouraged by y'all can fuss at me. And they fuss. The very beginning of Malachi &quot;I have loved you.&quot; And his people's audacious How?&quot; I mean, they basically tell the Prove that you have loved us.&quot; You'd think he would fry them but he doesn't. He just, again and again, I've loved you. I've loved you.&quot; The disputation we're the argument that I think I know that sounds think we'll get there-- It's in Malachi, chapter 2. It begins with verse 17. And they're accused. God's people, these they're accused with &quot;You have wearied the Can you imagine somebody You're such a whiny tale. You've made God tired There's definitely that that could have But you say, &quot;How, how By saying, everyone is good in the sight of the Or by asking, where is Can y'all read between these God's people are If you were a good matching sweaters and a golden If you were fair, I'd be in If you were fair, I wouldn't and somebody who used If you were a good god, my That's what they're saying. When I was in my believed that I and I would have dream of my childhood would get to be a mama. In my 30's, I thought, I've You know, I think I've still yet. And I bought these stockings. And they didn't have the But I saw these stockings. I thought they were so beautiful where I lived at the time. I just thought, oh, my goodness, In 2013, August of told that I was going to get home from Haiti, and I'd And I found these stockings. I had them in a box in my attic. And I thought I had kind that I would be a have stockings on my mantle. I had dogs, but I've never could put a dog stocking. I mean, that's great. That's so great if y'all have But I just couldn't do it. So I never put And I thought, I can't God is going to restore and I'm going to get to So I had them embroidered with And my name, Mama. And you know how stockings I had them embroidered on I want to see it I remember getting from the place I got them. It took them, like, I remember picking from this place in Nashville, and I was sweating-- because But I was like, I can't wait. It was the first like decorating for Christmas. And so I went home and And I mean, it was Y'all, I had this little And I mean, there were I'm surprised small planes And I've actually They aren't as had three more sets of stockings I just couldn't wait And I couldn't believe I was And then I got a phone call And they said, we are so sorry, to get to bring Missy home. And I can remember like it I remember taking those I took down every single and I packed them all and I shoved them And I thought, I will never I'll never decorate again. I mean, I'm not and tell my friends that. But I thought I just-- I don't think I'm ever going off the pavement again. This was just too hard. That's where God's people If you're such a good God, why And this is God's response, &quot;Behold, I will and he will prepare And the Lord whom you seek will and the messenger of the behold, he is coming. Behold, he is coming, You know what God is saying his people who have the and tell him he's not getting what they wanted Christmas is coming. Christmas is coming. Emmanuel, he's right Is that not the loveliest thing? I mean, they're not &quot;Behold the Angels,&quot; all those. They're not singing that. They're going, we're going to hang a stocking again. And he says, hang in there. Christmas is coming. Don't you love that Don't you love that are troubled in soul, those for Advent. Many, many years prior to those I got to hang the because God, in all his So do you think I still have It left a long time ago. It's hard for me not to cry when Being a mom is second only my salvation. But many, many years prior to my parents divorced-- super And the Christmas divorced, I don't My sister and I probably or I wrecked my bike. But I remember my response. I went into my bedroom, and because my mom had already I didn't want her to And so I crawled under my bed, We had those old mattresses Most of y'all are probably too But the springs of my bed-- we just sagged. They almost hit my face. And I crawled all the And I just bawled. My six-year-old heart Even then, I knew the angst that I didn't even know going to go to that And after I'd been under there-- I don't know-- 15, 20 minutes, I heard the back door open, because, normally, I And she called for me to And I didn't want because I was under didn't want mom to find And so I thought, I'm my tears so mom won't hear me. But then maybe 20, 30 seconds It's amazing. I could hear them, avocado green shag hear my mom's footsteps. And I heard her pause at And then I heard her voice. Lisa, honey, are And I didn't want because I didn't want to that Christmas. But she had instilled honesty as old as I remember. And so I reluctantly And the next thing I knew, and there was my mother's And then my mom-- she's I got dad's genes. My mom was always a real strong She stretched herself and then she rolled until she was just shoulder to And she grabbed my hand. And we stayed like that That's the promise No matter where we've wedged ourself because we're so and we don't match depiction of Christmas, He's so kind. And he's with us. Emmanuel, God with us. Wherever you are you are not invisible to him. You are precious to him. That's the promise of Malachi. That's the promise from We have a Savior who's with us. He's not a faraway God. That's a hope we we're hesitant to hang Reach out and touch somebody. Let's pray. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Lord Jesus, we confess as your we need that reminder Lord Jesus, you know us. Nothing in our lives You know that some of us and we feel guilty about it. But we wrestle with this because we feel like our story else's. We didn't get the happy ending. O King Jesus, give the faith to hang onto the that you came for us, that Christmas is around the corner, Jesus came, and Teach us what it is to anchor We ask these things by of your name, Jesus, and that you already because you came, knowing that We love you, Jesus. We need you, Jesus. Amen and amen. [MUSIC PLAYING]