- Humans don't have pheromones- it's never been proven. So there's no such thing Another myth that I hear is the menstrual cycle is a way to release toxins from the body. Well, if we needed the menstrual cycle to get rid of toxins, then I have bad news and all of men, right. Humans don't actually have toxins, and the menstrual cycle doesn't remove things from our body in the same way that the It's a myth that just needs to die. Historically, education has been dismal. It's all framed in context of pregnancy and preventing pregnancy, as opposed to about the menstrual cycle and what it means for a person's body. If we can't talk about it, if we can't share knowledge about it, then the implication is But we know that the menstrual cycle has significant impact on the half of population that has it. We want people to know how how much pain is a concern, has your period started too late- all these things are so you can advocate for yourself. If you have a menstrual cycle, if you love someone who and I know that you came from someone who had a menstrual cycle, you should want everybody to be able to access the same level of care. Hi, my name's Dr. Jen Gunter. I'm a San Francisco Bay Area OBGYN and author and health communicator, &quot;Blood: The Science, Medicine, and Mythology of Menstruation.&quot; Relatively few mammals menstruate. So there's humans and some great apes. There are some bats. There is the spiny mouse So it's kind of like this Every other mammal has an estrous cycle, which is a little different. The word &quot;menstruation&quot; and a Greek root, and it's for the the word for &quot;monthlies&quot; or a &quot;monthly occurrence.&quot; And so it reflects the idea that the menstrual period was expected to come about Many people have historically believed that the menstrual There really is no It might be an average at some ages, but there's actually even cycle to cycle, so it could be very normal for you to have a 26-day cycle for one cycle, and then A menstrual cycle means that the lining of the uterus has undergone a change called 'decidualization.' So the beginning of the cycle starts actually with the first day of bleeding. And for humans, that happens and is due to the release of progesterone. Decidualization is a real physical change in the tissue, and if the decidua as kind of in the uterus, it's all prepared If there's no decidualization, When you have an estrous cycle, the trigger comes from the embryo itself. So you don't have to have that catcher's mitt waiting there. One analogy that I its like the restaurant's making a dish- whether or not you show But with estrous, it's if it's been ordered. Humans have an incredibly that has to be handled or it could grow through the uterus So humans have evolved to deal with that. In addition, the decidua actually senses embryo fitness and is part of regulating which pregnancies actually take, and which are incredibly So, what happens when in a cycle is that you that's got nowhere to go. It can't be reabsorbed by the body, and so menstruation that cleave the decidua from the uterus, opening up blood vessels that then push that fluid out with and then the cycle can start anew. There is this romanization about nature, that nature has everything perfect, and I think that nature's best summed up as &quot;Just Your half-dressed, and and push you out the door. You're just good enough, &quot;Go on, go on out into the world,&quot; because evolution doesn't care about an individual person's suffering. It cares: is this design to perpetuate the species? I often think that this is another reason for everybody to know about menstruation, because the pain and the problems associated with perpetuating the species have been uniquely born There are a constellation that can be associated Premenstrual syndrome is a that happen only in the luteal and those can include breast tenderness, moodiness, feeling of hopelessness or 'anhedonia,' and food cravings, which are really very common. People can also get menstrual diarrhea, which again, happens at the same time, either right before or There's also pain that which is 'mittelschmerz,' which we believe is actually more related to a muscle spasm that's triggered by the chemicals that are released with ovulation. Then there are menstrual cramps, and those can vary in to being incredibly severe. To put it in perspective, generated when someone has, you know, menstrual cramps, it can be the same as the pressure generated in labor when you're pushing- and I'll add that some people have equated the pain in labor as equivalent without an anesthetic. We think that menstrual cramps exist as part of the And among those chemicals are substances called 'prostaglandins.' Prostaglandins trigger pain. They also trigger the uterus to contract. So you have all this chemical soup to stop the bleeding, you vasospasms that cause those blood vessels to contract down. The uterus cramps down the same way that you put pressure on Cramping itself is painful. The reduction in blood flow is painful, and some of the chemicals that are reduced can also effect pain thresholds. One of the most common are taking non-steroidal that we also call 'NSAIDS,' are they block prostaglandins. However, when they don't help, that can be a sign there's something else causing your pain like endometriosis. But also, for some people, and we don't really but that is an evidence-based approach to treating menstrual pain: taking medications that - Prostaglandins seems - Yeah prostaglandins my old foe. But prostaglandins are in all different kinds of ways. It's not just a menstrual but we do think as far as menstrual pain and menstrual diarrhea that they are the big troublemakers. People use apps for their menstrual cycle in a couple of different ways. They may use them just as a tracker to see kind of what's going on, and they may also use them as part of a fertility awareness method. There's also a lot of talk on social media about athletes using their menstrual cycle to optimize performance, and none of that is really grounded in good science. There is no robust data Now, it is true that if you're trying to optimize your physical fitness, there may be times of the month where, for example, if your breasts hurt, you might not want to do So you're listening to your body. Those are kind of intuitive. You don't need an app to tell you that. One of the issues especially apps is many of them And there was a study where they looked at women who and what happened was, when when the app predicted, the as opposed to blaming the with the prediction, meaning: Also, there is a dark side of apps, whether you're using them or if you're using them as part of a fertility awareness method in that your data may not be secure. And there is definitely a concern for people who live in areas where not only is abortion illegal but people who have miscarriages are that this data could be abused. I don't think it's a stretch that in some places this kind of data could lead to all kinds So people just need to be very mindful about where we're going. Ignorance about the menstrual cycle is clearly very common, even Weaponizing this and these are really troubling times. This is when people need so they can speak up, seeing a shift towards viewing and that your life has less value than your role as basically I don't think we can sound - Want to dive deeper? Become a Big Think member and join our members-only community, and unlock full interviews.