Hey there guys. Paul here from theengineeringmindset.com. In this video we're going the different types and how they work. Coming up: How heat pumps work, air to air heat pumps, air to water heat pumps, ground source heat pumps, water source heat pumps, as well as animations and systems schematics for each of these. I just want to take a moment to thank our partner Danfoss A critical aspect of heat pumps is how energy-efficient they are, and Danfoss has everything your heat pump is running at what they call 360 They even built a heat pump website that has business cases, and they even have a fun diagram, similar to the ones you so you can see how it all comes together. Just click the link in below to see what 360 degree Okay, the first thing we're going to look at is the air to air heat pump. These are the most common heat pump types. They often look very similar to a standard air conditioning split unit, with the unit located outside These can either work or, alternatively, the to have a device which or cooling by making use We've covered reversing Links to that can be found in There are a few different ways to configure a reversing valve heat pump. I'll show you a simple, typical example. The main components we'll are the compressor, the reversing valve, the indoor heat exchanger, with a non-return valve bypass, a bi-directional filter drier, a sight glass, another expansion valve with a non-return valve and bypass. Then we have the outdoor heat exchanger. We also have a controller and a number of temperature and pressure In heating mode, the refrigerant as a high-pressure, and passes to the reversing valve. The reversing valve is so the refrigerant passes through this and heads to the indoor unit. Cool air is then blown over the to remove some of the thermal energy and provide heating to the room. As heat is removed, the refrigerant will Having given up some of its energy, the refrigerant leaves as a high-pressure, The refrigerant then comes to the expansion valve and bypass. In this mode the so the liquid refrigerant passes through the non-return valve. It then passes through the and then passes to the It will then pass through because the non-return valve on this side is preventing flow in that direction. As the refrigerant passes the refrigerant expands in volume and turns into a part-liquid, This expansion in volume reduces the temperature and pressure. We've covered how thermal expansion valves and electronic expansion valves work in great detail in the previous videos. Do check those out. Links are in the video description below. The refrigerant then heads to Here, a fan is blowing outside ambient air over the coil and adding The refrigerant boils at and as it boils it will carry As an example, we know that water will carry thermal energy and we know that it boils at 100 degrees Celsius or Well, if we then look at some R134a for example, has a boiling point of minus 26.3 degrees Celsius or minus 15.34 degrees Fahrenheit. Refrigerant R410a has a boiling point of minus 48.5 degrees Celsius or minus 55.3 degrees Fahrenheit. So, it's very easy to even at very low outdoor temperatures. We've covered how refrigerants work, also in previous video. Again, links to that can be found in the video description below. So the refrigerant picks from the outside air and leaves as a low-pressure, low-temperature, slightly superheated vapour, and then heads back to The reversing valve then diverts this to the compressor to repeat the cycle. If this system is then the system then acts like a The compressor forces the high-pressure, high-temperature vapour refrigerant The reversing valve diverts The fan of the outdoor unit blows ambient air across This air will be a cooler temperature, so it carries the thermal The refrigerant condenses as Having given up some of its energy, the refrigerant leaves as a high-pressure, It then heads to the expansion so the refrigerant passes It then passes through the sight glass and the bi-directional filter drier. The next non-return valve is then closed, so the refrigerant passes As it passes through the expansion valve, the refrigerant changes to a part-liquid, part-vapour mixture, which causes it to drop in It then flows into the And in here, a fan blows the This causes the heat to transfer from the air into the refrigerant, and so the refrigerant boils The refrigerant leaves the indoor unit as a low-pressure, low-temperature, slightly superheated state and flows into the reversing valve. The valve diverts this back to the compressor to repeat the cycle. Air to water heat pumps: These units work in a very similar manner to air to air heat pumps, but without the reversing valve. The high-pressure, leaves the compressor, but this time it heads into On the other side of the water will have been cycled through a hot water storage tank. Cooled water enters the heat and as it passes through it absorbs heat from the hot refrigerant. The water will then leave and flow back to the hot water storage As the refrigerant gives it will condense and it will as a high-pressure, We've covered how heat exchangers work in our previous videos. Links to these can be found in the video description below. The refrigerant then passes through the filter drier and then into the expansion valve. The expansion valve causes the refrigerant to become part-liquid, part-vapour state. It'll be at a low It then passes through the where the outdoor ambient air causes the refrigerant to boil. The refrigerant then low-temperature, slightly and is then sucked back to repeat the entire cycle again. The hot water tank then provides hot water to the radiators, sinks, and Ground source heat pump: There are two main types of that being the horizontal Both essentially work the same, it's just how they access the heat in the ground that varies. We'll look at when to as well as the pros and cons This video, we're just gonna Ground source can be used In the air type system, the heat pump can also have a reversing valve and then supply either heating or cooling. In both cases, the outdoor heat exchanger can be a plate heat exchanger with the refrigerant passing on one side and a mixture of water and antifreeze cycling on the other side. The water and antifreeze mixture is forced by a pump around the This will allow it to in heating mode and bring The refrigerant on the other absorbs the heat because it so as it boils it carries the heat away, which can then be used In the air type system, there This will allow the refrigeration system to pull unwanted heat out of the building and transfer this into the This water will then be pumped around the pipes in the ground, and it will transfer the thus returning cooler, Water source heat pumps: Water source heat pumps closed and open loop. The closed loop sends a to collect thermal energy and transfers this through The same water is then sent round again to repeat the cycle. Open loop pulls in fresh or from a river and pumps this into the heat exchanger Once it passes through, it is then released back In a closed loop type, a cycles around the pipes to and bring this to the heat exchanger, where the refrigeration system will then would absorb the energy Alternatively, it will dump into the water-antifreeze mixture to provide cooling for the building. The unit then works the same In an open loop type, the and sent directly to the heat exchanger. The heat exchanger then out of the water, or it dumps the unwanted The water then passes and returns to the source Before I wrap things Danfoss one last time for Don't forget to check out by clicking on the link in Okay guys, that's it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. And I hope you enjoyed If so, don't forget to Leave your questions in and follow us on Facebook, and of course, theengineeringmindset.com. Once again, thanks for watching.