- We're going to walk step by step through the process of setting that you can start using I'm gonna share my screen so you can watch the entire So if possible, I recommend on a different device or on a split screen so that you can go along with me. All links that I mention will be in the description (dramatic music) Welcome to &quot;All Things Secured. My name's Josh. And let me warn you before we get started, if you're not used to which is a command line interface on MacOS and all other different platforms, then this whole process It really did mine. As you're gonna see throughout I not only had to configure the VPN, I also had to download the command line developer tools package, I had to upgrade to Python version three, and in order to do that, I and then I needed to grab an API token from my cloud service provider. It's possible you won't Maybe, maybe you will. I'm gonna walk step by step of what it took for me to do all this on a computer that had never Okay, so one of the first is I'm going to head over to This is a cloud service provider. There are so many that you could choose from. But I'm gonna go ahead 'cause it works well with Algo VPN, which is what I'm gonna be And so you're gonna see me here. I'm gonna go ahead and create a new account on DigitalOcean. I'm going to create a new password and I'm going to save it which if you've been for any period of time, you know that that is my I really enjoy using that. So in order to set this up, I have to have this And there are so many out there. There's Amazon AWS. There's Microsoft Azure. There's Linode, there's Google, there's all these different you have to set up something, and usually the setup costs are free. Now, if you use it for you might have to start but to start off, it's free. Now, I had to go in and and now in order to verify my identity, I have to give them a credit something like that. Now to this point, they have and I haven't paid for So it is still free, but I did have to give And you're gonna notice that I'm giving them a, This is something, just Whenever people are when you're giving your credit card, you don't actually need your real address. You just need your real zip code. That's the only thing they're checking. And I don't know why I have to give them the rest of my address. So now that the card's added successfully, I'm going to go in and explore It may look different for you, you know, depending on when you're but what you're looking and then scrolling down Now here's where we're and that token, you can Since we're going through, I'm going to just name it Algo VPN. I'm going to generate the token. By the time you see this, so don't worry about trying to copy it. But I'm going to copy this because we are going to use Okay, so that's step one. Step two, I'm going to where the Algo files are located. These are all the files for the setup. It's open source. You can check them out. The link to this page and any other page is going to be in the But this gives you a that we're going to follow, that requires us to open Now, the Terminal app is where you can do command line stuff. It's probably not have worked much with. And so that's going to but work with me here. All right, the first thing in this whole thing is you're I'm going to download that zip file that they link to right here. And then I'm going to unzip that file, and now So now I want to run the command line, git clone for this right here. And what's going to happen is this computer does not that are required to do that. Good chance that your computer So you have to download that software and install it on your computer Now, is it going to take 21 hours? No, it actually took But it is something that's going to take a little bit of time if you don't have the developer tools. So let's fast forward through this. I've installed the software, and now let's go ahead and into the command line all of these files from where all the Algo files are, and it's going to copy And so now that it has, we're going to go ahead and which is installing Now, part of that is Python. If you look and you do Python, you're going to see what version you have. I have 2.7 at this point. That's not high enough. I need version three or the VPN server. And so I'm going to go onto Python. I'm going to download Python 3.0 and make sure that I've Now, you don't have to in order to download and use it. As a matter of fact, I don't, A lot of what you're seeing me do here is kind of trial and error. I had to search how to install Python and I came onto the Python page And then once we get to this point, you're going to see in just a moment, I still going to have to in order to install the Python. So I'm going to go ahead and And if I go in and again check my version, you're going to see that, In order to install Python on my Mac, I have to first install Well, how do you install Homebrew? Well, I just Googled it. And how do I install Homebrew? I'm just going to have to copy and paste because of my version. I'll copy and paste this top line here to get everything that I need to install Homebrew on my MacOS. Now I'm gonna have to put in You're not going to see So when you're typing That may confuse you as And so, you know, it didn't, try again, and now it's going to go of downloading and installing Homebrew. All right, great. Homebrew has been installed. And so the next step is to I can now go in and install Python and everything that's required for that. So let's go back and find in order to install Python. And it's pretty simple. I'm going to copy and and Python three. This'll take just a couple of minutes. I'm going to kind of fast Don't worry if this stuff takes time. It does take a little But once it's done, you'll see the name of And now you are done doing that. I press Command + K in I don't like having a So I'll clear all that out. Go back, enter into the Algo And then I'm going to copy and paste because I need to install And that is this virtual start off installing here. Once that is installed, we're going to scroll the remaining dependencies. Again, we're just copying and pasting. It's not super complicated unless you just run into any problems, but once I copy and paste and press enter, now it's going to be installing all of these extra dependencies that are required in Okay, here we are. We have finished installing all the core and remaining dependencies. And the next thing that we want to do is set up our configuration options. That's step number five. Now I opened up my Finder folder. I opened up the Algo file, and I'm going to open my Any text editor will do. But what you're going to see is that you can set up a number and it doesn't, it's not one user, and then you can set it Every device that you want to set it up has to be a new user. So let's say I want to create so that they can have a VPN I can just add them to it, save that file, and then keep going from there. Now we want to actually And that's going to require us to go in and type in dot, slash, Algo. So I first cleared it and then I'm pressing Now, because all of these have been installed correctly, now it's going to go through this process. I'm going to say what provider. I want DigitalOcean, number one, what's the name of the server? I'm going to name it Algo Do I want to enable connect on demand on a cellular network? No, I don't really care about that. What about on wifi? Sure, I guess we can go ahead and do that. I'll press Yes. I'm going through all of these. Do I want to list any names That's where you could say that, you know, hey, whenever I'm on you don't have to connect. But I mean, I don't want to go through that process right now, so I'm just going to press enter. Do I want to retain the PKIs? It's less secure, so I'll go Do I want to enable DNS ad No, I don't really care Next one, do you want each for SSH tunneling? Sure, why not? There's nothing really wrong with that. And now I think the next thing is that API key. Remember that thing that that we copied and pasted elsewhere? I'm going to go ahead and paste it here. It's going to be hidden, so you're not going to see it actually show up in the Terminal. But once you press enter, and it will start talking And it's going to ask me what region would I like the server to be located in. I'm going to go ahead and use the eight, which is New York server, Actually tried on a couple and for some reason came up with errors. So if you do that, just keep until you find one that actually works. And now you're going to go This process for me, took I'm going to speed through but it's setting up everything in order to make this a So just be patient and let Great. When you're done, you're going to see this green congratulations, your algo VPN server is running, and now you just have to take and actually start using that server. The server is there, it's but how do you do that? All right, well, there's that we're going to do, but one of the first things is I'm going to pause and I'm going to open up my phone. I want to set up the because that's the VPN protocol that we're going to be using to connect to this Algo VPN It's a great connection protocol. It's very secure and it's extremely fast. So how do we get this set up on our phone? Well, let's go ahead I'm going to find the app store and I'm to search for WireGuard. This app is absolutely free. It's not a subscription service, All it is is it's just something where you can set up those connections using the WireGuard protocol. So as I install this, I we're not going to be paying for anything. All we're going to be doing is connecting directly from this app to our Algo server. Now, how do we do that? Well, if you go into your Finder, your folder, it's going to, and this is all in the but I'm going in and I'm And I'm looking for the Config folder. Not the file that you see right here. I want to go into the Config folder, open that up, and then open and then look for WireGuard. Now here you're going either config files or the QR codes. These QR codes are the I'm going to show you this QR code. It's not going to work anymore by the time you're watching this. But I'm going to open up on click that plus, click and then I'm gonna scan that QR code. Name the tunnel. I'm going to name it Algo just to keep things And now I have to set up that give the WireGuard app And now here it is. It's that simple. All I have to do is turn it on. You're going to see the VPN icon come up on the top right here, and to test to make sure that I'm actually connected correctly, you can open up your browser, go to What is My IP Address or whoer.net or What is My IP, any of those, and find out where your My IP address is a U.S. IP We're good to go. As you can see, I'm now that I control, and it offers me a bit more privacy and anonymity. If you found this tutorial helpful, please give us a Like and For those of you who got or have questions, I feel You're welcome to leave a comment, but honestly, you're going visiting the Algo troubleshooting page that I've linked to below. Remember, when it comes to be prepared, not paranoid.