Canine cantina. Do they serve doggie tequila? Time zone troubles While running her online from South Korea to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. A lot of the people that I'm working with are to appreciate myself. Where have you brought me? I see chickens. Yes. So we're at the base of the mountain and It's one of the oldest neighborhoods in the where all the activities. That I love that we are at the base of the That's gorgeous, but it's far from the Yeah, but he is enjoying it. And Leah is just like, all in the chicken Oh, romance is off the beaten path. A lot of tourists haven't discovered it. So it's nice about El Romance is he offers everything. But you don't have to deal with city. All right. So before we go in, okay, bath. All right, Leah has her own outdoor We love that already. I'm not sure you're going to love the price, It's $900. Oh, okay. That's as close to 750 as I could Okay. You had me at outdoor space. Come on, let's go. And we. All right, so first, why don't you go check All right? I know it's a weird space. What a really weird place for a bedroom. So this could be a guest bedroom. As long as they don't mind. No privacy in a front door. Yeah. Yeah. Or maybe an office. Yeah, possibly. Well, let's see the rest. All right. All right, Let's go, huh? All right. There is a lot of yellow. Yeah. A lot of colors. You are in the old part of Mexico, okay? The yellow is just a bit over. It's a little. Intense, so it seems like. Yeah, this is definitely a very authentic But I don't love the fact that we're far If I had something a little bit closer, it head out to the beach, get your toes in the I do like the space. It's massive, which works well for somebody So here's the main bedroom. Oh, okay. It's basic, but it works. It's. Yeah, it's okay. It's a nice sized bed for both of you and Three of you. Great for entertaining. Oh, look, I'm the first half of the house is find, but I think the second half is going All right. Well, let's look. I know you like to bake, so I really want you Yeah, I'm obsessed. Oh, my God. Check it out. You could fit a person in there. That doesn't sound right. You could fit a lot in there. Let's just put it that way. All right, so the one bath is over here. Milan. All right, well, that's important. Come on, check out the bathroom. I like the sink. Yeah, it's very authentic in here. More yellow, because you can never have too Okay. All right. Okay, so then you have this I don't know if it's a laundry area. Massage parlor. I don't know what you want to call it, but It really is a nice space, and you're So overall, what's your sense, your feeling Okay, so hashtag love the kitchen. Yeah, I love the space. I could absolutely see having guests. I could also work from home here, but it's a So I'd like to see if there's anything more For 750 ish. A one bedroom with that buggy, or is that Long as I have the space and she is. She's loving it. We came to Puerto Vallarta kind of sight So I'm curious to see what the other places What do you think? I think so, yeah. We're in Alta Vista right now. So right at the base of the mountain. It's a really cool, eclectic little And what's nice about Alta Vista is we're Yeah, that means you're just a few blocks How far from the beach? You're eight blocks from the beach. So ten, maybe 15 minutes stroll. Yeah. Not too bad. I love this neighborhood. There's so much greenery. One of the things that is a little bit minutes of a walk, if I wanted to take a lend to an impromptu trip to the beach. This is the condominium complex. There's a really cute one bedroom, one bath Okay. Plus there's a really cool pool. Stop it. Do not play with my emotions. There's a pool in there. Yeah. You didn't ask for a pool. You're going to get it. No, That's amazing. You didn't ask for 800, and this place is I'm willing to look. I mean, you had me at I want to show this apartment to Mila because Yes, it's small, but she wants close to town So Alta Vista provides all of that. Check out the pool first. We would. Love to check out the pool. Oh, my gosh. Yeah, it's quite nice. This is gorgeous. Isn't that great? This is so nice. We could spend all day here. Let me show you All right? This is fantastic. Come on. I know. Okay, ladies. Oh, my gosh. It's a zorbs. It's a little snug. Hey, me likey. And since you're the baker, what do you think Oh. Yes. That's pretty new. Okay. I see bread in your future. Okay. You want to check out the bathroom? All right. It's functional, but it doesn't really match Old world. Yeah. And then you have this garden view terrace. Oh, that's nice. Pretty nice. Especially right now. This time of the year, It's a little close to the walkway. Yeah. A little bit of a privacy. Privacy concern. Yeah, because that's, like, Yeah. You want to see the largest room in the We love to see the largest room. That's the bedroom, actually. It's nice, though. I love the wall. It's a really nice feature. I love it. I'm not thrilled that I could This is not Amsterdam. This is not. Yeah. Okay. Fair. I certainly love the bedroom The pool is fantastic. Yeah, I'm a little bit concerned about size do feel like we're on display here. Plus it's a little bit further from the I'd like to be a little bit closer, and I price range that I was looking at. Okay. To be honest, her wishes is kind of She wanted a two bedroom, but now she's okay the beach. So these are all the dynamics I'm along. So this looks very city. Yep, because we are we're in the 5th of We're right on the border of El Centro. Okay. Being this close to the city, you get from the beach. Oh, my gosh. That's amazing. Yeah, that's super close. I love it. Okay, here's the cool thing about it. There are a lot of pet friendly businesses Oh, nice. Yeah. I'm going to show you this All right, One bath. You got some cool Okay. And it's only $650. That my friend sounds fantastic. Having the beach really close is very However, I don't want to be in the middle of in it. I'm going to go in. Yeah, that's great. This, I would say, is kind of like the Maybe a small sitting room. Yeah. I don't know what you call this room, Oh, yeah. I love the vaulted ceilings. Those are cool, huh? That's really nice. I hate one side for Leah, one side for You know, she's got her own. I'll have to ask her that. Oh, right. Well. You want to see that balcony? I do. You want to see the balcony? Of course she does. All right. Of course she. Does. All dogs love outdoor space. What do you think? Um, it's a little. Loud. Yeah. Yeah. Well, let me show you the kitchen. Yeah. All right, let's get out of this noise. Yeah. All right. Remember I told you earlier that would be the kitchen again. I love the vaulted ceilings. Yeah, it makes the space seem a lot bigger I have never, ever seen an invisible stove Sarcastic. I know. Unfortunately, you're not going to be I don't hate the kitchen. I do hate the fact that there is no oven. And when I say hate, I'm going to emphasize I am super bummed there is no oven here. And for somebody who really enjoys like that that wasn't available for me. Okay. All right. And the bathroom's right there. A little bit of a tear. Okay. Check it out. Oh, that's a good size. I like the high sink that you have over It's really nice. I don't have to, like, Yeah, cool. Well, there's one more air I want There's a really cool space on the roof. This is nice. That's cool. This is great. And Leah will have a lot of space, but it's there's not complete privacy there, which is So you're three blocks from the. Beach, but yes, I am three blocks from the cons. I'm going to really have to think is no oven here. What about the price? Only $650. That is probably one of the biggest selling I think at this point. Leah is just like for the love of God, get I know that with all of the apartments, I I'm just really struggling to let some of So I have a really tough decision to make. We saw a house that's pretty big two The kitchen to die for. You could fit a person in there. Okay, that doesn't sound right. It's a nice sized bed for both of you. And guess what we. Got for you. And you're smiling. But it's above what I was thinking. And then we saw that one bedroom condo with The pool was. That was really cool. That was an extra. And I loved the kitchen. It's adorable. I love the wall. It's a really nice feature. I'm not thrilled that I could perform in Plus, it's a little bit further from the And then you have a one bedroom three blocks It was very noisy, which I could live with, I don't hate the kitchen. I do hate the fact that there is no oven. This is nice. This is cool. Leah will have a lot of space, an issue. So. Realistically which one is not going to work. I'm getting a little worried about the price The one with the best kitchen. The one with the best kitchen and the best The price is problematic for me and also I feel like if I live there, I wouldn't go So the one bedroom a three blocks away from Yeah. $650. That's a smoking value. Yeah. The biggest part of that for me is the Then you have a one bedroom with a pool. It was a nice pool, and the oven is I love the bedroom. I like the patio. And just eight blocks on the beach. I mean, it's not a far schlep, but it's a Yeah, it doesn't really lend to being You have to pack and we need our water and And honestly, the ability to just walk out minutes, just that's really appealing to me. Are you going to be okay not baking for a I don't know. If you were tossing the coin. Where's it going to land? Leah. Hey, what are you seeing? She's like, Oh my God, I can't even with you I don't know. I think just because of our beach. So three blocks on the. Beach, three blocks from. The beach. You got that. Girl? Yeah. Right on. Yeah. Swimsuit swimsuit for. You. It was really a tough decision because functionality and won't be able to bake like But it's a good size so I can entertain it when I'm not home. All right. And now your helmet.