We're told there are four fundamental forces - electromagnetism, and gravity. Except than the force of a stretched elastic byproduct--an emergent effect of the allow that entropy to keep you in your seat Gravity is the odd one out among the fundamental three and it's also not a quantum force--at our best current description of gravity. And efforts to quantize it; to unify it with the because gravity isn't quantum? In fact, what There are a number of proposals along this line, Oppenheim. But we're going to have to come back been asking us to cover for years now. That's the who tells us that it's not a fundamental force in your chair right now, but rather the rise Today we're going to lay out the basics published back in 2010. We'll follow up with and what the idea has to say about dark matter last episode where we explored how space its infinitely distant boundary through the about today will draw from that episode, so But let me recap anyway to emphasize the most in a bit of math that we'll use to construct of tea, relax--I'll give you everything you need So the holographic principle grew out fact that the information that can fit its surface area. That information so this is also the black hole's entropy, It turns out the same information limit applies to encode the contents of a universe on its boundary. the particles and fields and gravity and laws of lock step on its infinitely distant but infinitely gravity-free boundary, a very different on the interior. The boundary encodes what The only concrete mechanism for this that's correspondence, which unfortunately doesn't quite that there's a version which does. In AdS/CFT the and the gravity emerges within that string theory. might be a natural prediction of the holographic which this extra dimension can be encoded with larger structures on the boundary manifesting Today we're going to explore one idea for how a statistical side effect of the interplay of whatever it is that's happening out there on the boundary. This is the entropic gravity by no means broadly accepted, but it is taken there is a fascinating and still mysterious Bekenstein and Hawking discovered. And there's a like it's telling us something, even if it isn't To understand how gravity might arise system-- we'll use the same thought experiment that Verlinde uses in his entropic gravity paper. Imagine a long molecule that is free to move and fold in any temperature, with one end fixed to the wall of acting on the molecule, we might expect it to molecule could move, it's far more likely to end This is one way to think about entropy. probable - higher entropy - configuration more configurations--or what we call curled compared to it being straight. Being is a higher-entropy configuration If we straighten the molecule we have to do so. If we let go it'll curl up again it back. I should add that there's nothing its temperature with the air in the vibrations and are being randomly smacked by the molecule towards random configurations, There's a simple relationship between molecule or that the molecule exerts on you: This is really saying the amount of energy--the temperature of the system times the motion happens. Or that the force is equal to We call this an entropic force. This is exactly band. In fact, any time you have the movement there's an entropic force. For example, if then release it, it'll rush to fill the room and The proposal of Erik Verlinde is that gravity that seems odd. Gravity is a property of what exactly is pushing or pulling in empty the context of a holographic universe, in also emergent. He argues that the entropy must increase, and that rising entropy To build up this idea we're going to need to keep the boundary and something's happening in even if they sit very differently in our mental and even merge them slightly. But remember that same system. If all that gives you OK, so, somewhere in the bulk of a holographic see if we can figure out the gravitational any theory of gravity--just by visiting want to know show much gravitational so let's imagine a series of If the star is massive and compact would be an event horizon and we'd have surface would be the Bekenstein-Hawking the amount of information of everything But even if this surface isn't an event horizon we everything interior to the surface. But that makes If this is a holographic universe, then the particles on this surface map to the boundary. In fact, the particles on surfaces of all sizes map to the same this lower dimensional space. We want the entropy outside that surface--that translates to how much start with the holographic boundary from which from the outside-in. That's not really the case, going to partially emerge our universe down to of the boundary as actually lying on this surface. to everything below this surface. So from now on, the holographic boundary corresponding to the OK, hold on for a little bit of math. We so we can say that it also contains energy the interior, but also has to be the energy of also give that boundary a temperature, in thermal equilibrium so that the energy And that N thing is just the number of possible of arrangements of particles inside the volume mass, and temperature. But that also information within surface--its entropy. the Bekenstein-Hawking entropy, so the number For our surface let's just assume that the entropy But presumably smaller than a black hole. OK, one more step. We want the gravitational that force. Let's add a tiny mass and "emerged" part of space. When that happens, the information from that object is lost gains the same amount of entropy as dropping This equation is just saying that equivalent roughly to a bit, when the particle it getting within its own quantum wavelength--in But just like we saw with the coiling molecule, this tiny increase in entropy should Whatever crazy interactions are happening inclined to bring our particle closer to this If we bring everything together - the \Delta horizon, and the temperature from the overall cs and the kds cancel out and we replace the area of the sphere with 4 times pi times its radius ... we see that the algebra shakes down to ... Newton's constant--and if that constant is one because we have Newton's exact equation. Even though that Newtonian gravity with arguments This is basically saying that if objects in entropy on the boundary, then that motion Remember that Hawking and Bekenstein used to get black hole thermodynamics, but head--it starts with thermodynamics But let's not get ahead of ourselves. Firstly, gravity reproduce Einstein's general Verlinde argues that yes it can, although the 2016, he published another paper that argued that and that it's connected to dark energy--although of assumptions--the validity of this idea rests least of those is the requirement of a holographic can find a version of AdS/CFT that works The debate over entropically emergent gravity physicists. That means it's worth doing another this has been pretty hard work, so why not be expected to fight the rising entropy at the