What an intriguing to a psychologist. (Laughter) I've had the opportunity of listening in on some and watching you interact with each other. And I think it's fair to say, already, that there are 47 people in this audience, at this moment, displaying psychological symptoms (Laughter) And I thought you might (Laughter) But instead of pointing at you, which would be gratuitous and intrusive, I thought I would tell you in which you may catch I'm in the field of research which is part of a larger which spans the full spectrum, And what we try to do, in our own way, is to make sense of how each of us -- each of you -- is, in certain respects, like all other people, like some other people and like no other person. Now, already you may &quot;I'm not intriguing. I am the 46th most boring person Or you may say of yourself, &quot;I am intriguing, even if I am regarded by most people (Laughter) But it is your self-diagnosed boringness that makes me, as a psychologist, So let me explain why this is so. One of the most influential approaches is known as trait psychology, and it aligns you along five dimensions and that describe universally held aspects They spell out the acronym OCEAN. So, &quot;O&quot; stands for &quot;open to experience,&quot; versus those who are more closed. &quot;C&quot; stands for &quot;conscientiousness,&quot; in contrast to those with a more &quot;E&quot; -- &quot;extroversion,&quot; in contrast &quot;A&quot; -- &quot;agreeable individuals,&quot; in contrast to those And &quot;N&quot; -- &quot;neurotic individuals,&quot; in contrast to those who are more stable. All of these dimensions have for how our life goes. And so we know that, for example, openness and conscientiousness but the open people achieve that success and, occasionally, odd. The conscientious people to persevering, as well as Extroversion and agreeableness to working well with people. Extroverts, for example, With my classes, I sometimes that might be revealing I tell them that it is virtually to lick the outside of their own elbow. (Laughter) Did you know that? Already, some of you have tried But extroverts amongst you are probably those but they have successfully of the person sitting next to them. (Laughter) Those are the extroverts. Let me deal in a bit more detail because it's consequential and it helps us understand First, our biogenic nature -- Second, our sociogenic or second nature, which has to do with the cultural And third, what makes you what I call your &quot;idiogenic&quot; nature. Let me explain. One of the things that characterizes And that stimulation can be achieved loud noises, parties you see the extroverts They all gather together. And I've seen you. The introverts are more likely up on the second floor, where they are able and may be misconstrued but you're not necessarily antisocial. It may be that you simply realize when you have a chance Sometimes it's an internal Caffeine, for example, works much better When extroverts come into the office and say, &quot;I really need a cup of coffee,&quot; they're not kidding -- they really do. Introverts do not do as well, particularly if the tasks and they've had some coffee -- if those tasks are speeded, and if they're quantitative, introverts may give the appearance But it's a misconstrual. So here are the consequences we're not always what seem to be, and that takes me to my next point. I should say, before getting to this, something about sexual intercourse, although I may not have time. And so, if you would like me to -- yes, you would? OK. (Laughter) There are studies done on the frequency with which as broken down by male, female; So I ask you: How many times per minute -- oh, I'm sorry, that was a rat study -- (Laughter) How many times per month do introverted men engage in the act? 3.0. Extroverted men? More or less? Yes, more. 5.5 -- almost twice as much. Introverted women: 3.1. Extroverted women? Frankly, speaking as an introverted male, which I will explain later -- they are heroic. 7.5. They not only handle they pick up a few introverts as well. (Laughter) (Applause) We communicate differently, Extroverts, when they interact, want to have lots of social encounter They'd like to stand close They like to have a lot of eye contact, or mutual gaze. We found in some research that they use more diminutive terms So when an extrovert meets a Charles, it rapidly becomes &quot;Charlie,&quot; and then &quot;Chuckles Baby.&quot; (Laughter) Whereas for introverts, it remains &quot;Charles,&quot; until he's given by the person he's talking to. We speak differently. Extroverts prefer black-and-white, Introverts prefer -- that I am as extreme an introvert we speak differently. We prefer contextually complex, contingent, weasel-word sentences -- (Laughter) More or less. (Laughter) As it were. (Laughter) Not to put too fine a point upon it -- like that. When we talk, we sometimes talk past each other. I had a consulting contract who's as different from me First, his name is Tom. Mine isn't. (Laughter) Secondly, he's six foot five. I have a tendency not to be. (Laughter) And thirdly, he's as extroverted I am seriously introverted. I overload so much, I can't even have a cup of coffee and expect to sleep in the evening. We had seconded to this project And Michael almost brought So the person who seconded him &quot;What do you make of Michael?&quot; Well, I'll tell you He spoke in classic &quot;extrovert-ese.&quot; And here is how extroverted ears which is actually pretty accurate. I said, &quot;Well Michael does have of behaving in a way as perhaps more assertive (Laughter) Tom rolled his eyes and he said, &quot;Brian, that's what I said: he's an asshole!&quot; (Laughter) (Applause) Now, as an introvert, I might gently allude to certain in this man's behavior, but I'm not going to lunge for the a-word. (Laughter) But the extrovert says, &quot;If he walks like one, if he talks And we go past each other. Now is this something Of course. It's important that we know this. Is that all we are? Are we just a bunch of traits? No, we're not. Remember, you're like some other people and like no other person. How about that idiosyncratic you? As Elizabeth or as George, you may share your extroversion But are there some distinctively or Georgian of yours, that make us understand you That make us love you? Not just because you're I'm uncomfortable putting I don't even think pigeons So what is it that makes us different? It's the doings that we have You have a personal project right now, but nobody may know it here. It relates to your kid -- you've been back three times and they still don't know what's wrong. Or it could be your mom. And you'd been acting out of character. These are free traits. You're very agreeable, in order to break down those barriers in the hospital, to get something What are these free traits? They're where we enact a script in order to advance And they are what matters. Don't ask people what type you are; ask them, &quot;What are your core And we enact those free traits. I'm an introvert, but I have a core project, I'm a professor. And I adore my students, and I adore my field. And I can't wait to tell them what I can't wait to tell them about. And so I act in an extroverted way, because at eight in the morning, the students need a little bit of humor, a little bit of engagement in arduous days of study. But we need to be very careful when we act protractedly out of character. Sometimes we may find I find, for example, after a period I need to repair somewhere on my own. As Susan Cain said in her &quot;Quiet&quot; book, in a chapter that featured who was teaching at the time at Harvard, I sometimes go to the men's room to escape the slings and arrows (Laughter) I remember one particular day trying to avoid overstimulation. And a real extrovert came but in the next cubicle over -- and I could hear various which we hate -- even our own, that's why we flush (Laughter) And then I heard &quot;Hey, is that Dr. Little?&quot; (Laughter) If anything is guaranteed it's talking on the john. (Laughter) That's where I'm going now. Don't follow me. Thank you. (Applause)