Hey, how you doing? Justin here, back with you for a Now, some of you are gonna find Some of you are gonna find it It just depends a bit on your anatomy, if you've got really long fingers, So, it will be a little different I'm gonna show you the process, and where I think you wanna Particularly those of you or not very flexible fingers. Now, the exercise itself, It's important to realize, Okay? So, don't go trying to do it faster. The point is, slow So, it's much more like a yoga thing. You don't do those kind of things If you're stretching before You don't do it real fast, The idea is, you do it really slowly, and you kind of feel it You should feel this exercise... not hurt, but you should Okay? If it's not stretching, like you haven't got enough You need to make it if you find it too easy. So... I found when I was doing that even this basic one I could kind of get my fingers but it mostly hurt in here, in this muscle between Now, that's also one of the things So, it's partly to do with partly to do with finger strength, partly to do with getting and partly for developing this muscle as well as, independence, There's a load of stuff Speaking of picking, for this exercise, we're gonna use Okay? You might find it helpful on the guitar. If you're playing acoustic guitar, you don't wanna pop it Just leave it resting. It can move around, And then you're just gonna use Now... let's start off together, at the 5th fret of the thickest string. You wanna try and keep that finger So, not too much There are chords in times but this exercise isn't one of them. Then we're gonna put our trying to get it up next to the fret, Then you're 3rd finger, is gonna go, again, one fret higher, try to get it next to the fret, i.e., like not here at the back cos we know...that's likely So try to get right up Then little finger. Now, I've got a really little, So for me, that already Not with this hand. I can easily But for my left hand, so my right hand is doing the stretch. Just doing that, was already difficult. or feel like you're not gonna be if you're finding that difficult. Then we're gonna move We're now gonna play the 1st finger, Gonna play that. 3rd finger, and then little finger. Now, it's not designed If you can see, I'm kinda keeping Now... this exercise is relatively If you wanna go and watch it doesn't look anywhere near so easy. And... even just doing this much... Now, there's a few things to notice. First of all, the 2nd and 3rd fingers and the 1st and 4th fingers, and that's normal. That's just to do Don't feel like they should all be Our fingers all kind of join so they meet in the middle. So, doing this kind of exercise, you'll always find that and 1st and little finger kind of Don't worry about that What you're aiming for, most people will find just that difficult. Curling the fingers right around, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, Trying to keep the palm there, If you can. Then again, that's gonna be Most of you will find that little finger will have Again, like with everything else you've got to be a bit forgiving If you find this really tough, Just stick with it. All of us can touch our toes, if we put some effort into doing I struggle to actually touch my toes, But the idea is, if you find something, that are difficult, Whether it's getting strong, and this part of guitar, is quite physical, and you just have This exercise I'm gonna prescribe for the next week or two. And just really taking it nice and slowly, Let's just do the whole exercise now. So do 1st finger, 2nd finger... But we're not in a hurry. Then we're gonna Trying to keep each one. probably for some of you, You won't be able to hold it, Then you have to try and and when you go to do this, but you gotta try and hold it back. So trying to get that 3rd finger in, If that's what happens, that's okay. You trying to get this stretch out to try and make it feel like like your grip is getting wider. Like I said, if you're finger's like this, What you don't want is to let so the 1st finger is now out of position. You wanna make sure, if 2nd finger's there, 1st finger's Try and keep 1st finger back, even if 3rd finger won't go Little finger, oh come on! You want it to go there, that's okay. Try and get your way, And when you get to the thinner string, but you're still going up each string. This is just an exercise, so we're going Now, almost certainly a lot of you I did, as well, when I was trying You might yourself going like... and then... trying to get...there's the right string. There we go, and now the next one. Oh, where is it? It's, you know, don't worry about it. These exercises have got a whole heap of particularly the first few days You're gonna find it pretty difficult. Really, just don't worry about it. and try and develop it through the weeks. You will find, even a couple for a couple of weeks, and you'll find that you're able to... you might not be able to but you'll find the actual picking of it and placement of the fingers Now if you're finding this exercise you just start moving the fingers So you're going, As you start moving down this way, And probably by the time I mean that's a pretty decent stretch. Most beginners would find it difficult all of the way, and keeping them That's...I have to work at that, if I'm So, if you're comfortable with that, you probably don't need to If you're totally comfortable maybe try and find other things maybe your chord changes, or if there's a chord you're Find the thing that's not and spend your time practicing that. doing a bit of this finger exercise Like I said, for a whole heap of reasons, the independence, using your little finger There's a whole heap of goodness If you're really wanna push your limits, So I can do 1st fret, 3rd fret, 4th fret but not right near the end, I have got a stumpy little finger, though. &quot;Oh my fingers are too short, We've all got things that I've always had a little, little finger, so there are some things You have to find your own way when you encounter a problem like that. There's nothing that can stop you