Hi everyone. Welcome back to Lavendaire. Today I'm going to talk about confidence: how confidence is built, how it works, and the more risks you're gonna take and the more This is more a storytime. I'm going to tell a few short stories about just to give you examples of how confidence and has not been built in other areas of my Let me start with this poker metaphor I got Imagine a poker game. There's one player that has a huge stack of in front of him, and there's another player The person with the bigger stack of poker because they have more chips to start with that will win more. So the person with more confidence, the person who has had more small wins in to take big risks and, thus, win more. And the person with the small, baby stack of confidence and baby stack of And I think so much of life is just confidence. So much of success is just having the confidence, believing in and you have to have that faith. Basically, the way that confidence is built is through small wins. The more small wins you have, they stack on and build your confidence because it's like The more small wins, the more validations the more confident you're going to be. If you have no small wins and you just don't you just let it be, then your confidence is stagnant. Let me just paint the picture. I'll give a lot of different examples from If I look back at who I was as a child, I pretty insecure, not a naturally confident I was very soft-spoken, very malleable when I was young, and just Even though now, a lot of you see me as I I'm so much, a thousand times more confident I'm naturally a kid that was unsure of myself, just not gonna stand up for myself type of So that's the starting point. That's where we're gonna start at, okay? Someone who's very insecure, very unsure of themselves, on a very weak Let's put it at that. Growing up, I've never been good at sports. One of the most traumatizing memories I have of my childhood was, I think, when And you know you have to do sports as part Me, at the baseball bat, already naturally But there was this one time that I finally swung and I actually hit the It wasn't a good hit, but I hit the ball. And I stood there, I froze, because I didn't And then all the kids in the stands were like, Run, Aileen! Run!&quot; And I was like, &quot;Okay. Okay, okay, crap.&quot; I ran. So I ran to first base, okay? And that was it. And then, I don't know if you guys know how but I obviously didn't really understand the I was at first base and then the next kid is up to bat. So, all of a sudden, this boy in my class-I which made it hurt more-but this boy in He's like, &quot;Run, run, run!&quot; Telling me to run while it just wasn't supposed my turn to run. I didn't know. I just heard someone yell run, because all were yelling run earlier. So he was yelling run and some kids joined and I was like, &quot;Okay, okay, run! Run, run!&quot; So I ran to second base and then the teacher blew her whistle and And she made me go back and she got mad at And I was so hurt because I didn't know what I never tried to break the rules on purpose. I just felt like I got in trouble and I looked stupid. All the kids were laughing at me because the laughing at me because I was running cluelessly. I didn't know what I was doing. Anyway, that was embarrassing and it was traumatizing it's one of those memories that I go back and it makes me scared to try again in sports. That's not the only time I've been embarrassed There's been countless other times. I think that same year, or the year after I was playing soccer. We had to practice kicking the ball around And me, being clumsy, instead of kicking the my foot would go on top of the ball and I the ball. How ridiculous, right? I just remember being embarrassed and knowing my peers were watching me. And what made it worse is: After PE class, my friend was like, &quot;I saw you had a little You know what I mean? It's just so embarrassing, especially when is either not stand out and just blend into not make a scene, not embarrass yourself. With a whole history of similar stories like sports, it just made me scared to try in sports and Any time we were required to play a game or I just wouldn't want to try. I think, in my head, I associated if I try I might fall or I might make a fool of myself. I might look stupid. And so I was too scared to try that hard and and I left it at that. And that has followed me through for the rest Literally, it held me back. I don't know what my potential could've been if I had actually tried in these things. So my confidence was never built in the world of sports because I never had I think in my first experiences with sports and I felt like someone was stepping on me and so my confidence just ended there. It never was built up again. So on the other and, let me talk about how in another area of my life and how that built Alright, so let's go back to where we started. Remember, I started out, I was a shy girl, just not so confident in Basically, my whole life I have been into things like music. I loved singing, I loved dancing. I played piano. I took piano lessons since I was a baby, literally I started really early. So singing and dancing, I would only do it in my room, in secret. I never told any of my friends at school. My mom probably knew I liked to sing. My brother was too young. I don't think he even noticed. But piano lessons: I think, I would say one of the first small wins that I had was I was good at piano. I just remember, there was a memory where talking to my mom and she said something like, She's really talented at piano and I want And just hearing that as a kid, it's kind That's a small win. That's validation. Obviously, my confidence bumped up a little So boom, I had a little bit of confidence And then I joined band when I was in fifth the first couple years of high school. So being good at the flute, I was section leader, I was chosen to play Things like that, it's like ding, ding! Validation, small win, validation. Obviously, the more wins you have, the more confident you are. So since I was in band, you know in band there's always a color guard which is like It's a group of mostly girls who dance, do And I remember always, always looking up to Deep down, I really liked to dance too and but I was so scared to. I didn't know that I was cool enough or good All throughout high school, I just watched and I just didn't have those small wins in But I had small wins in music, so that kept going. I was good at piano, good at band, and then It was 2007 when I discovered YouTube. That was a time when I started to upload YouTube videos of And I did it just because I was inspired by First of all, it blew my mind how someone could just upload and it ended up on the radio. So I just did it. I uploaded videos and I did it in secret. I didn't tell any of my friends at school yet, to admit that this is something that I enjoy. So eventually, one of my friends in band found and she was like, &quot;Aileen, I saw your video I didn't know that you sing.&quot; And just hearing that she actually liked my Another small win, a validation. And then word spread to more friends in school and obviously people watch my videos. I never boldly talked about it, but if people came to me and talked about like, &quot;Yeah, I do make videos,&quot; really, really shy. But I have to give a lot of credit to that first YouTube channel that I started If it weren't for putting up videos on the showed people this passion. Literally, I was that shy. My senior year, my high school put on a production and that was a time when I became obsessed and I absolutely loved musicals. So obviously, I garnered up the confidence and auditioned for Grease. Even though I didn't get any lead roles, I was a chorus member in Grease. That was like ding! That was a small validation for me. Even going to the audition and singing and people who have never heard me sing before, So you can see all these validations are adding After the production was over, they held a for people who were in the musical to, I guess, And I didn't even go to that banquet because I didn't really talk to anyone in there. I came, I sang, I danced in the background, and then I went home. Literally, that random girl. But the next day at school, someone came up to me and was like, &quot;Hey Aileen. Did you know you won an award last night? You won this award.&quot; And I was like, &quot;What are you talking about?&quot; So I went to the theater place and I realized they gave me this award. It says &quot;Rowland High School Theater Department for Grease: Outstanding And it just blew my mind. So ding! There is another small win, another little validation because I didn't or dancing or performing. And this was just another one of those things that built my confidence. The next year, when I went to college, my freshman year at USC, I heard of auditions And because I had such a fun time doing this as a performer onstage, I went to that audition. And I sang, and turns out: I was casted as the lead of that music. It was called &quot;Unforgettable&quot;, and just being the lead of a show is a big I've never had anything that big in my life. So that was another, another huge win. So through those experiences I gained so much But at the same time, remember, I still wanted But that same year, I went to the audition, the part where you for the dance team at school but I chickened I was too scared and I just didn't show up at auditions. So that was a womp-womp. But my next year, the second year of college, and then I made the hip hop team at USC. So boom, boom, another small win. And then, throughout college, I was randomly And I think it was my senior year where I that Dash Berlin actually reposted on his So ding! That was another win because it was like, and he actually liked it? What the heck?&quot; And then I made a cover for Nicky Romero and he tweeted that. It was like ding, ding, ding! All this confidence built from small wins in music. That's how I had the confidence to pursue when I graduated. I decided not to get a job. You guys know this story. I didn't get a job, pursued music, made an All of that confidence is thanks to all the small wins that I've of that piano teacher believing in me. Literally, that's where it probably started. It probably started with my mom and dad who That's where all this confidence in music But let's move on. So I pursued my music career, but I also had to pursue acting and I also got a job as a for a food festival, and I got that confidence for so many years for fun, through my music. So, after a few years of performing and also producing videos for work, I had which is my current channel, Lavendaire, because so much background knowledge on how to make how to edit, how to do audio, how to edit how to produce music and stuff. So boom, boom, boom, all of these experiences, all of these small wins and confidence has Even as I started Lavendaire, in the beginning, I was unsure that it was even interesting. I was like, &quot;I can't find anyone else my age talking about personal growth on YouTube. Maybe no one wants to watch it. Maybe that's why no one's making these videos.&quot; But I had this inkling within that I'm like, No. I think it's only gonna grow. I think there's only gonna be more and more who are going to be aware of this stuff.&quot; So I believed in myself and I kept it going. I was consistent. And hitting my first thousand subscribers, ten thousand, all of those are small wins that have really contributed to my confidence. And now I feel like I'm so confident as a person. I've grown so much, thanks to all of these little experiences within the realm of performing, But don't forget about the sports and active The confidence has not been built up. Literally, it's like this. I'm like up at the stars in my confidence and all of that stuff, but down here I don't playing basketball, you know? But who's to say I couldn't have been good if I started early and had those small moments Think about your life. Think about the small wins you've had in your that have built up whatever confidence you And if you feel like you're not very confident you didn't get a chance to build up those Maybe, like me in sports, you were squashed. You had some negative experiences back then that made you not want to try anymore. Honestly, all of these wins, it comes from trying, from putting effort. And even if the first time you try, you might When I first auditioned-almost auditioned-I I didn't do it, but I had to come back the second time and Basically, what I'm saying is: Your story Your story is yet to be written. It's up to you to make those efforts, to make And just know that the more you try, the more the more you practice at something, the better and the more confident you're going to be because you've done it so consistently. You've put in the time. You put in the effort. So confidence comes from effort. It comes from trying. So keep trying, keep practicing, because the more you do that, you're going to build in yourself. And the more confidence you have, the more risks you're going to be willing And we all know, the more risk you're willing to take, the the more success you're gonna find in your Honestly, this is advice I would give to everyone Build your confidence by making those small If you fail at something, don't let yourself feel defeated and stop Not trying is the worst thing you can do because, when you've stopped trying, that's You've stopped. You're not making progress. If you want to make progress at something, you actually have to put in the effort. You have to try. And once you see a little bit of progress, you're gonna believe And honestly, the number one thing about success Confidence comes from believing in yourself. It's all one big thing, it's all interconnected. So I hope that my story can shine some light So let me know what you think in the comments. Let me know if you can relate to my story. And just find those areas of your life that Alright, have a beautiful day. I love you so, so much. See you next time. Bye!