Mojang sometimes doesn't quite hit the mark with updates. [cough] Some of the features don't quite [cough] become exactly what we expect. And some features even get changed in terrible ways that we as players don't really like. [coughing] [coughing] Sorry, something in my throat there. Weird. So today, I'm doing something that Mojang probably won't ever be able to do. Basing an entire update on suggestions from players, and you know what? I think I'm starting to understand why. I asked you all on my community tab what your ideas for a Minecraft update would be, and honestly, I don't know what I expected. Some of these features are genuinely kinda cool, but others are... [inhales deeply] Yeah. Today we'll be going through eight viewer-suggested updates and showcasing the features as the comments intended. You'll then get the opportunity to vote on your favorite via the Google Form link in the pinned comment or description below. The resulting winner will be released as its own standalone mod that you can download and try completely for free. Chapters are also available for this video, so you can easily refer back to your favorite mod in the video whenever you want to. So let's start with probably the weirdest of all the updates. [chuckles] The Rage and Cage update, and here's what the comment includes. We have the cage structure, Nicholas Cage as a boss, the cage ingot, and the cage block. Oh yeah, this is gonna be, uh... This is gonna be weird. We'll start with the all-new cage structure. As you can see, it spawns pretty much-- pretty consistently throughout the world, like kinda... kinda all over the place. It includes some diamond ore, it includes some soul lanterns, you've got this button that throws strength potions on the ceiling, I don't know, it's-- it felt nice. And naturally, you've got the Nicholas Cage boss. [chuckles] Here we go, I'm headin' in to take him on. Let's go, Nicholas Cage, let's go! Take me down, take it-- let's just do this. He's... wandering away. Come here, you. WhuhCHAA! Come here, boy. Come here. Oh my gosh, you took-- you dealt some-- dealt some damage. Uh-oh. [laughs] Whoa! Whoa! Oh my gosh, I forgot how fast this guy is. That's not a Ravager effect. Uh-oh. Ah! What do I do? I can't do any-- I can't deal any damage. Oh, jeez. Oh! On the plus side, the comment actually said that he's not aggressive until he's attacked, so this is actually great. This is a perfect thing. I'm gonna eat a golden apple right off the bat, and I'm gonna take him down. Come here, boy. Almost. Hah! Hah! Yes! That was way more difficult than I actually thought it was gonna be. But he dropped this. I need to swim, get it. This is-- hold on. This is the Nicholas Cage ingot. [laughs] Look, it's got his eyes. He can see you. But I only have one. I need to defeat more Nicholas Cages. It's time for a battle montage. WhuCHA! WhuCHA! WhuCHA! I got one. Come here. Come here, Nicholas. Come on, almost there. Yes! Can I keep him pinned? Keep him pinned to the corner. Ah! Ah! He's back inside. Hah! Got him. Move him quick. WhuCHA! Whupah! Got him. I just gotta hop in here. Hold on. Yeah, okay. Uh, whoop-ah! Got him. All right, seven. I need two more. Hah! Okay, we've got our nine Nick Cage ingots, which means we can make our Nicholas Cage block. And now we have the Nicholas Cage block. Yay! Yay! [ew] It doesn't do anything. You can't even make, like, armor out of the ingots or anything. It's literally just the Nicholas Cage block. It just sits here. And it looks like Nick. It's also really squishy, I guess. I don't know if I like that. Yup, that's the mod. I mean, that's the Minecraft update, baby! That's the one, Rage and Cage! Anyways, that's the first update. What do we have next? The Swiss and Bliss update. This update adds eight different types of cheese and a golden pizza. That's it. But there is actually a little bit more in the mod. In order to get all of the cheeses that are added to the game, you have to go to a bunch of different structures. As you can see here, this is the Savannah Village and you can get cheddar cheese. This is the first of eight different structures we're gonna visit, so let's go to the next one. The Plains Village, where you can find... Nothing, apparently. None of these villagers have chests. What's going on? Mozzarella cheese. Next up, we have the igloo, which includes feta cheese. Hey, guys. Enjoy yourselves. Bye. Shipwrecks include... Brie cheese. Which I think is just called Brie, typically, but I call it Brie cheese, okay? Consistency, alright? The Pillager outpost includes Swiss cheese. The Woodland Mansion includes... Gouda cheese. In the Stronghold, you can find Parmesan cheese. And last but not least, the Ancient City gives me one of my favorites... Cream cheese. It spawns a lot of cream cheese in, like, a bunch of the chests. It's everywhere. And so now we have all eight of the cheeses that we need. If we put all of these in a crafting table surrounding a gold ingot, then you get the Golden Pizza. And this pizza, let me tell ya, this thing is crazy. It gives you strength 30 for five seconds. Plus, all of the effects of a golden apple, which makes it perfect for a boss fight. Come here, boy. Come here. Bwah! That's right. I did that with my fist and the Golden Pizza. And that's pretty much it. But I will say this is probably the most time-consuming out of all of the updates that we've added so far. But yeah, that was the Swiss and Bliss update. It's very... Swiss and very bliss. This is the cheesiest update of all time. I'm the cheesiest update of all time. [sobs] You should add a block where if you right-click on it, it sends you to subscribe to Knarfy's channel. You know, that's a great idea. In fact, you should just, um, subscribe to me. There's still about 70% of my viewers that aren't subscribed. So if that's you, you should, uh, stop that. Get subscribed. Right, turtle? Mr. Turtle, are you subscribed? Because if not, you do need to subscribe. Oh, Gah-- The Soup and Soap update, which adds soup, and you guessed it, soap. That's a pretty simple idea. Very straightforward. I like it. So let's start with the soup. I added two different types of soup. One is good soup, which you use suspicious stew and a golden apple to create. Good soup (Good soup) is good, and it gives you a good effect. As you can see, I just got dolphins grace, so I'm gonna jump in the water. Whee! Swimming faster. What other good effects can I get? I just got water breathing. I just got resistance. I just got speed. I just got haste. I just got... Yeah, it just gives you a bunch of good effects. It's pretty awesome. But of course, there's also the flip side of suspicious stew with rotten flesh, which gives you bad soup. I'm sure we've all had a bowl of soup that makes you feel really bad. For example, losing health. Slow. I'm slow now. I'm also poisoned. I'm also weak. Oh, oh, oh, I didn't expect that. Quick! I need good soup. Oh, fire resistance. Great. That's so helpful right now. Good soup and bad soup. But that's only part of this update. The other half is, you see that in the logo? Soap. Well, now, of course, you can craft yourself a bar of soap. Don't worry about this crafting recipe. It's a little weird. Soap is actually really cool, because it allows you to do some things that you weren't able to do before. The main thing that was mentioned in the comment is this. Taking mossy cobblestone and turning it into regular cobblestone. That's right. Soap allows you to wash certain blocks. That means any of the mossy blocks here you can take and you can wash them off. They don't need their moss anymore. It's nice and clean. Don't like the look of a stronghold? Well, that's all right. You can just give it a quick little wash and then everything will be fine. Oh, nice. Would you look at that? A ruined portal and a perfect one obsidian. Bam! It's ready to go. But oh, no, I don't have a pickaxe to be able to break that. Well, just use your soap and it's a-okay. You can just wash the crying out of the obsidian. Boom! Perfect. Amazing use case. Let's go through. Oh, hey. Well, now, would you look at that? I'm in a bastion. But oh, what's this? Oh, gross. Gold on my blackstone. I... Oh, it's just... Yeah, it's gone now. Washing gold out of gilded blackstone. It's... It's a little satisfying, but also, I don't know, you're getting rid of gold. So it's a little weird. Ah, would you look at that? A mangrove forest and would you look at this? Some muddy roots. Oh, just give that a nice little clean and good as new. Oh, no, what's this? You can't mine reinforced deepslate to get rid of it out of your perfectly good ancient city. Well, don't mind me as I just unreinforce your deepslate. This definitely is not overpowered at all. Soap is fantastic. So that is the soup and soap update. Probably a good one, maybe a good one, maybe the favorite. I don't know, you're gonna vote for it. So go to the link in the description and vote for it. Or don't. Wait for the next one. We'll see what happens next. In fact, future Knarfy, what do we have next? The days and grays update. This update includes gray mobs that are incredibly difficult to kill and dirt is overpowered. And I'll explain how dirt works in a moment. But first you can see I am kitted out. Look at this armor. It's absolutely insane. And yet it probably won't be enough to stop me from dying. So let's just let me just show you what's going on here. So this update brings new mobs called gray mobs that you'll very clearly be able to tell what they look like because they're very they're gray. That's that's the that's the mob. Only certain mobs can be gray mobs. Oh, well, you're gray, but you're not a gray mob. These mobs are incredibly difficult to kill and they deal a lot of damage. I know we'll find some stuff at night, but I really wanted to find stuff during the day too. Oh, oh, oh, no. Oh, no, they're so fast. Oh, they're so-- okay. So I'm not going back to ice. Just note to self. Oh, the sun's going down. Actually, that's important. That means the scary mobs are going to spawn and that could be a problem. Oh, oh, oh, there's gray witches. These ones are a little bit easier because they throw potions, but they're still not easy to defeat. The gray witches spawn way more often than I thought they would. So that's fun. Oh skeleton. Oh, more witches. Oh, no, there's gray creepers. Oh, no, this is so bad. They could come out of nowhere and just spontaneously explode like crazy. No, oh, not today. Thank you. Yoink you witch. No, denied. Sometimes they're gray spiders and sometimes they're not and you can just never tell because they're all they're already gray. Oh, the creepers. Oh, the oh, that's a gray spider!! If you just if you find a gray creeper, you're just dead. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. They're so fast. and so small. I thought it would be interesting to try to find gray chickens and then I just immediately died. Great. Love that. One of them that can spawn is the gray Steve and he's a little spooky. They all hit like a truck and are oh my gosh. Look it. I have full protection four armor on and he still destroys me. Come here. I hit him. I hit him. I hit him. Oh my gosh. I actually defeated him. They're insanely hard to kill but you may have noticed something else about this update that I didn't mention yet. Overpowered dirt. If we just spawn this guy in again and I'm going to try to get the jump on one of them. You come here. Got him. OHH Dirt when you right click on a gray mob. It just poofs 'em out of existence. uh. Hey buddy. We've also got things like the ocelot the gray chicken, which we saw the cow. We've got the pig all of them with their spooky glowing red eyes. The piglin is kind of fun. I like this one a lot. The gray slime is a little odd, but you know, he's he's all right. The gray cod and the salmon don't really know what to do on the land, but they're they're trying. They're trying their best and naturally the dirt just makes them all poof out of existence. Love to see it very Minecrafty. It's so crazy that they added this in the update man. You know, what's cool though is you can vote for it. If you really want to come here. Oh the sweat and thread update actually, I'm going to adjust that to the sweat and threat update because it rhymes the sweat and threat update. This update includes the sweat effect and sweat monsters. We'll get to the monsters in a second, but first I need to go for a run and just run across the countryside. I got to go. I got to wear myself out a little bit get myself sweaty. The whole idea behind this mod is a little disgusting, but hey, we're here for it. All right. I didn't come here to make pleasing mods. I went here for your dumb ideas. It takes a whole minute before the sweat effect takes effect. So we might be running for a little while. Think I'm feelin a little tired here. Oh, oh man, I'm so exhausted. Oh, this is so unfortunate. I can't run as fast anymore Oh, no, maybe a nice cool refreshing dip in the ocean will fix it Bloop now. I'm fully refreshed and ready to go again That is actually part of the comment you take a shower and it resets your sweating effect But if I just start sweating again here, this gives you slowness one and lasts forever It just keeps going until you either take a shower or you die But thank goodness for water any body of water will work, but there is one more aspect to this So I'm gonna run again. Oh man Man, what a trek and would you look at that? There is no water in sight. No water Anywhere if I stay sweaty for over a minute then the sweat monsters arrive I thought to myself what happens when sweat droplets turned into creatures and well Oh, oh no, no, please. Oh, I'm in the water Yeah, that's right bunch of sweat monster spawn after a minute of sweating and these guys are insane Oh the Sun's going they do attack you they're just they're just little things that they're just like silverfish, but sweaty I don't like that image in my head But the way to get rid of them is you can jump into some water and since they're also made out of water They just become part of the water makes sense, right? understandable Naturally I'm sure you can see the downside to this if there is no water nearby or if you're like underground or something with no way to Wash off the sweat ow, then these guys can very quickly take full advantage of the situation and you may quickly die Please sweat monsters, please please It's bad. Oh, no. Oh look at them. It's a tidal wave of sweat monsters. This is the most satisfying thing in the world I love that sound effect. It's so good. Amazing. My sweat monster infestation is is fine now. Oh, guess not. Okay Okay, so that's the sweat and threat update Obviously, you know about the sweat and that over there is the threat. There's so much there's so much water in my face What do you think do you think you'd vote for this? I don't I don't know that I would but I'm Inspired by my beloved plants versus zombies Colonel Pults cobs and lobs this update adds corn corn kernels popcorn Buttered popcorn and my association butter the butter status effect and a couple other fun features So to start with how do we get corn? No, you can't actually grow corn It's not available that way, but you can get it from farmers. There's the farmer right here and there it is corn. Thank you, sir I'll take your entire stock. But now that we have this what do we do? Naturally, we wander aimlessly through this town until we find a crafting table. Where did the crafting - I don't know where BAM There we go. Now we can take corn and turn it into corn kernels as the comments said these are actually throwable. Yeet! [laughing] hiyah. hiyah. hiyah. hiyah. hiyah. Oh, they're all gone [knarfy sounds] They don't do a ton of damage. It's like half a heart of damage, but you know, that's it's a projectile They're also really delicious. You can eat them incredibly fast num num num num num num num num So they're a weapon and they're really delicious Ow Uh oh But it doesn't stop there if we just head on to this furnace and pop some coal in there and pop the corn in there We get popcorn Which you can also throw at things Popcorn is excellent and it still doesn't stop there We're just gonna take this bucket pop it into this furnace and cook ourselves some butter because this is how you make butter, right? Butter we'll just take our butter put it in the middle surround it with some popcorn and we get buttered popcorn Also does like the same things as the other stuff. You could still throw it. You can still eat it pretty good It's pretty good stuff but there's one other feature of this that I didn't talk about yet. Buttered popcorn when you throw it has a 5% chance to inflict an enemy with something special and butter does the same thing. Hold on. Let me get more butter butter inflicts a status effect called butter Status effect. I mean, you know, that's pretty self-explanatory But you can see here it gives you slowness for as long as the butter status effect goes I'm I'm very slow as I still have the wrapper but don't litter kids I'm gonna try it on this iron golem because if it doesn't inflict it I'm gonna die inflict the butter status effect No, it didn't work. It didn't work. It's No, it didn't work. It didn't work. It's bound to work now, right? It's bound to work. Yeah Now you can't move you're just stuck there. Ow Don't make me throw more butter at you. Hey, how does it feel to be stuck in pla- Yeah, fair enough. So anyways, that's the cobs and lobs update I hope you liked it because if you did you should vote for it, but there's also other ones coming So you maybe maybe you should vote for those ones instead update update It adds update signs and I interpreted this one Interestingly, I think but let's take a walk because randomly around the world we will find update signs What's this? This item is a work in progress. Please do not break it this tree Um Another what new features have been added to this area. Enjoy. Oh my gosh new features? Where? Update Complete. Thank you for your patience. Enjoy! What update? Oh an underwater one amazing fixed a game-breaking bug from this area Oh cool. Yep another work in progress, huh? Wow. Look at that item. That's in progress. So cool This region has been updated updated WAAA Like all it really does is add signs to the world that just tells people that something might have changed could have changed Something was updated But we just don't know what it was even the end isn't safe from updates update complete This area will never be the same and or dragon did they change you look how they massacred my boy Are we sure these signs are accurate? Is anyone fact-checking this? Maybe I should be fact-checking it This is my mod after all. I mean, this is a new completely original Mojang Minecraft update nothing to be concerned about nope, it's so okay so funny comedy genius over here This entire video is so much updating updating the updates really What if we didn't update and then decided to update later and then updated that up The Barnes and Nobles update including the new barn Structure with variations of pigs and cows as well as a manager house or mansion structure with the new noble boss type that drops a golem wand And to start with Barnes and Nobles. We're gonna start with the barns This is the all-new barn structure that spawns out in the wilderness It was supposed to spawn in villages, but then I couldn't figure out how to do that So I just spawned it in the middle of nowhere Wow so much village included in the barn structure is a bunch of new Cow and pig types as you can see here. They also all have their own unique names we got the Aberdeen the Duroc pig the British white cow the Pietrain pig the Iberian pig the Hereford cow I literally googled a bunch of cow and pig names and this is what came up and I wanted to do them and they look So good. I'm so happy with this also included in the barn You can see there's a little bit of a hay bale and bamboo situation up here It's kind of fun, and that's it. That's that's all there is to the barn, but it's cute. It's pretty It looks nice where it really gets fun is with the second half of Barnes and Nobles This is the Nobles mansion these spawn either close to villages or you know just kind of out wherever because the Nobles don't need No land they don't need to be specific about where they're living. We've got a little friend in there We've actually got a couple little friends in there eg The noble is a new boss type that spawns exclusively here in the mansions as you can see he's wearing a nice little gold helmet Has a diamond sword and this thing which we'll talk about in a moment, but first I need to defeat him So I'm gonna I'm gonna gear up again I can't close the door gear up time this time though I'm in just full iron because I want to see if I can actually take this guy out legitimately hey, buddy How's it going in there? I'm coming to take over your mansion. Okay, okay calm down Oh, he's gonna get me no, please. Can I can I get away? I'm gonna hide in here Got him okay, I got this first. Let's take a look at the area. This is our new home that I just claimed. It's beautiful It's amazing. It's got an iron golem in it. Oh hi chickens. How's it going? It's got a chandelier and a pig on the wall and the star of the show a vault Which is very easy to get in-- That's not important. What is important is what's inside! Oh Yeah, look at this look at this. It's so powerful There's also like little areas here like an iron golem building layer or something like that And then of course we have the fungen and this yeah, he's in here I built this structure on a live stream Fundy dropped in and said he I should add something to him So I put him in the corner anyways Fundy. I hope you enjoy your fungen I'm gonna enjoy the rest of my mansion because now I have power over iron golems and by power I mean it literally just lets you activate self-destruct. Hey, buddy catch, but now I have this mansion So that's cool! So to recap we got a barn structure with new cows and pigs We got a mansion with Nobles in it and the iron gall of one that explodes things and also fundy is here So that's cool. Oh, oh... Oh no... I'm just gonna you guys enjoy your stay and that is all the mods for this video Which means you are informed enough to make a vote so head to the description Check out the link to the Google form that I put there and I will release whichever one is the winner check the description of This video or check my community tab later on for who won there were a lot of different things in this video that Kind of did a lot of different stuff So be sure to go back in time and check them out if you're curious and I for one eagerly await your vote in the Meantime I'm going into my house full of iron golems and using my iron golem one to destroy them all