This is a day in the life of a Japanese hotel worker this is johay 30 years old living in tokyo and he's just waking up for work he starts his day by checking his temperature as these days it's become a company requirement he lives in this one room apartment and by Tokyo standards it's fairly spacious [Music] yo hey how long does it take you before you leave the house i guess that's a single life interestingly Tokyo has a highest number of single households in Japan at 49 whereas the average in Japan is 35 percent damn that's a lot of masks i guess these days you can never have enough Yohe is originally from Chiba and first moved to Tokyo for university after graduating he started working for his current company first in kobe for two years then transferring back to tokyo yohi lives only five minutes away from the train station and then another 15 minute train ride to work without a transfer it's not the shortest commute time but far better than most in tokyo plus he doesn't have to negotiate through a Tokyo rush hour transfer all right we're back with another day in our life i'm really excited to see how this day unfolds johan should be on this train right now let's see how he slept the night before ...the night before. [Music] [Paolo] Good morning! [Paolo] How did you sleep last night? [Music] [Paolo] Is your office far from here? [Music] So Yohei works as an assistant manager at APA Hotel Shinjuku-Gyoemmae. APA is one of the largest hotel chains in Japan. There are 623 hotels in the country, with about 98,000 rooms. [Music] APA Hotel uniquely identify as a new urban style hotel. High quality, high functionality - - without all the unnecessary services. Often mistaken as a Japanese business hotel, which are typically budget style hotels. Smaller rooms, bare amenities and close to the train station. Originally intended for traveling Japanese salarymen. After clocking in, Yohei has a tradition Japanese morning meeting called &quot;chorei&quot;. At his hotel, though, there are both day shift and night shift workers. day shift and night shift workers; and so at the beginning of each shift, they hold a similar meeting. To command, principles in unison, staff recite the APA principles in unison, which is typical for many Japanese companies. Afterwards, the staff practice their customer greetings. In Japan, there's a unique hospitality custom called &quot;omotenashi&quot;. It means services are always completely genuine and honest. Because it's so deeply rooted in Japanese culture, the staff make extra efforts to provide guests with the best experience possible, without expecting anything in return. [Music] First thing in the morning, Yohei cleans around the hotel. [Paolo] Yohei! Yohei, do you do this every morning? In Japan, it's important for companies to maintain a clean, kept area in front of their business; which also includes public walkways. Although not their responsibility to clean, they do it anyway. Next, he helps sanitize the hotel. Due to COVID, the hotel has adopted stricter cleaning and sterilization measures Yohei visits each of the 14 floors in the building and wipes down all the elevator buttons, as well as other high touch areas in the hotel. During peak checkout times, Yohei focuses on assisting guests. The hotel uses express checkout stands. The machine has a built-in sensor that recognizes the room number, automatically registering the checkout into the system while also notifying the cleaning crew that the room is ready to be cleaned. Oh! I guess he's going to the hotel restaurant! So, Yohei checks in with a head chef to confirm the next day's menu so he can prepare signage, as well as inform inquiring guests. Mmm! Something smells good! Oh there you go, breakfast is served What's in here? In Japan, hotels are often used as evacuation locations, so storing food and water is necessary. So why did you decide to work at a hotel? Oh, it looks like they're starting their monthly fire drill. So they select the location in the hotel for the 'fire' to start. It's a staff's responsibility to quickly and safely guide guests to evacuate as well as extinguish the fire, if possible. Usually the hotel is filled with guests, so it's critical for the team to regularly drill in case a real fire were to happen, in order to keep everyone safe. Wow, they're really taking this seriously. I'm getting flashbacks from another day in the life I recently did. Apparently, the company also have first responder training four times a year! So that all the staff are comfortable with evacuation procedures, reporting to the fire department and even handling a fire extinguisher. After the drill, the team reviews what they did. Good and bad. So they can make improvements for the next time around. What just happened? Throughout the day he's tasked with random guest requests and issues like this. It's critical for the hotel to always maintain a clean and pleasant environment for its guests. So a lot of his time is also spent regularly checking that the hotel facilities are well-kept. Yohei, what do you enjoy most about working here? Okay! A company man! You don't really have much office work, right? In addition, he adjusts room prices based on the current room occupancy to attract more guests. So it looks like Yohei has some office tasks to do right now. Let's take advantage of this time and see if there's room to explore this place So this is one each of the floors. Let's go inside and see what they have! I guess basically it has everything that you would expect. It has sheets, towels, it has soap, it has batteries it has cups. That's pretty much everything you would need. What's quite interesting is that the elevators here have two doors. One is used for the clients and then the other one is used for the workers. This right behind me right here says deluxe toilet! Let's see what a deluxe toilet looks like. Let's lock that. Basically, you have your basic baby changer here and then you have your regular automatic toilet; Which I love. Even has a special flushing sound so that you don't bother anyone or if you make special noises in here that other people can't hear from the outside. And just behind me they even have their own parking lot! But, because real estate is a little bit tight in the city they have a special type of parking lot, let me show you Wow, look at all of these batteries right here I suppose with 411 rooms there's as many or even more remote controls Oh, I guess he's decided to have lunch at the hotel restaurant today. Since staff rotate on breaks, Yohei usually eats lunch by himself. Oh, that's the same curry we saw earlier! I wonder what it tastes like. Looks like he's having hamburger for lunch. That looks amazing! Do you eat here often? After lunch, he prepares for room inspections. To maintain the highest level of room cleanliness, he performs quality checks for 10 rooms randomly. If he finds an issue, he fixes it himself and reports it back to the cleaning crew so the same thing won't happen again. Oh there's Shinjuku-Gyoen Park! Yohei, how did this room do? Well that's one room down, nine to go! So these are the standard size rooms. [Music] Cool! Even has luggage space under the bed. So after this check, he re-sanitizes the room. The cleaning crew also sanitizes the room, but since he entered the room afterwards, the room must be sanitized again. Oh! Now he's going to the Daiyokujo. In English, it's a large bath at a ryokan or hotel. Yohei, what are you doing? It's widely known that Japanese have a deep-rooted bath culture, preferring full baths over showers. Because of this, many urban and business hotels these days offer a shared bath area. In fact, many salarymen and other Japanese decide upon the hotel based on whether the hotel has a shared bath or not. Here they have the onsen bath where all of the guests can come and use. What you can see right behind me is that they have these stalls where you can take a shower and clean yourself off before you go in. And look right there, they have everything you need: shampoo, soap and conditioner. [Music] During the peak check-in hour, Yohei assists guests with the check-in machine. At his hotel, guests can also check in through an app to save time at the front desk. Guests can simply scan the code and immediately receive their card. Oh, the guest sent a package to the hotel in advance! Now, Yohei is helping him carry it to his room. In Japan, tipping is not customary, and in some ways can be awkward, as it's unexpected. It's ingrained in Japanese culture to take pride in your work, no matter at what level. So receiving a tip as an incentive to deliver the best service is viewed as unnecessary, all tying back to Omotenashi. As an assistant manager, Yohei also helps train the staff throughout the day, providing guidance on proper procudeures and overall guest services. How long have you been working here? What do you like most about this job? After check-ins slow down, Yohei has to perform other miscellaneous tasks. Oh, he's speaking Keigo. It's a formal way of speaking polite Japanese, intended for customers, superiors, and hotel guests. Schools in Japan generally teach students the fundamentals, but only until one enters the real world is it used. So even for Japanese people, it's sometimes difficult to speak without practice. How long does the hotel keep the lost &amp; found items? What about the expensive stuff? Good work! That's another happy guest! He still has a little bit of time left, so he sanitizes the used cards for next time. And now, he cleans around the hotel one more time before leaving. Yay! Finally finished! After work, he usually goes out dinner with his friends, as there are many restaurants and bars in the Shinjuku area. But because of COVID, these days he goes straight home. Oh, he's making gyoza tonight! That looks pretty good! In Yohei's free time, he plays the guitar in a band, and he writes his own music. Wow, he's pretty talented! I guess tonight he's feeling it! So it looks like Yohei is gonna be playing the guitar for just a little bit longer. Then after that he'll take a bath, and then probably go to sleep by 12 o'clock tonight. Let me know what you guys thought of this day in the life of Japanese hotel worker. Let me know in the comments. If you guys want to help support the channel, check out my Tokyo merch. If you guys want to see what I'm doing on the daily, check out my Instagram account. And if you guys want to see more day in the life videos, hit that subscribe button and the bell button, and I'll catch you guys in the next one!