As we've seen over the past few episodes, star dies. If the star's core is less than a white dwarf--a very hot ball of super-compressed If the core is heftier, between 1.4 and 2.8 further, becoming a neutron star that's of it resists the collapse, and prevents the But what if the mass is MORE than 2.8 times of the core can actually overcome the tremendous What force can possibly stop it now? It turns out, none. None more force. There can stop the collapse. The core of the star Way back in Episode 7 I talked about escape player in the unfolding events of the collapsing the velocity at which you need to fling something For the Earth, the escape velocity is about and it's gone; it'll never fall back. Earth, has an escape velocity of over 600 A neutron star, with its immense gravity, - that's half the speed of light! Keep that in mind, and let's go back to its gravity gets stronger and stronger. That higher. When it's neutron star-sized the but if it's more than 2.8 times the mass When its size drops just a little bit more, The escape velocity at its surface is equal And, well, that's a problem, because in the speed of light. Not a rock, not a rocket, star shrinks down smaller than that magic No matter can come out, so it's like an out, so it's BLACK. We should come up with a snappy name for such A black hole is the ultimate end state for in a black hole STAYS in a black hole. That hole where the escape velocity is the speed that reason. Any event that happens inside Black holes mess with our concepts of space is incredibly complex, so much so that even still argue over a lot of their properties. This has led to a lot of misconceptions about All right, let's get this out of the way It takes a stellar core at least about three degeneracy pressure. That means the original Sun's mass or more. So we're safe from Here's another misconception: A lot of people sucking in everything near them. But that's not really true. They have powerful close to one. The power of a black hole comes is its SIZE. Or, really, its LACK of size. If you could turn the Sun into a black hole, could, then the Earth would orbit it pretty kilometers away, the Earth doesn't care away that it doesn't matter. It gets to be a big deal when you get close. strength of gravity you feel from an object from its center. The closest you can get to about 700,000 km from its center. If you get it. The material OUTSIDE of your position you feel will actually decrease. But if the Sun were crushed down to about could get much closer than 700,000 km to it, stronger pull as you approached it. So from far away, a black hole with, say, just as hard as a normal star with that same You can orbit a black hole, too, as long as Orbiting a ten-solar-mass black hole would except not so hot and bright. Black holes are weird enough without the misconceptions. Black holes also come in different sizes. mass of about 3 times the Sun's, and might mass, if the parent star was big enough. We happens to gobble down more matter, it gets as well. The black hole gets bigger. The idea that huge black holes could form in the 1970s, and it wasn't much later that our own Milky Way galaxy. We've measured Sun's mass! And now we think every major may be crucial in the formation of galaxies themselves. Here's a fun thought: What would happen hole with ten times the Sun's mass? You'd die. But what happens in the few milliseconds is actually pretty interesting. As we've seen many times in our own solar gravity weakens with distance, so a big object gravity; the far side of the moon is pulled A black hole has incredibly intense gravity, They're so strong that if you fell into force of gravity on your feet can be MILLIONS Remember, even the meager tides of a planet force by a million, you're in trouble. As you fall in, your feet are pulled so much like taffy. You'd become a long, thin, noodle, Astronomers call this - and no, I'm not This would happen pretty close to the black you fell in from a long distance, you'd that point, and you'd only have a millisecond Note that this is only for stellar mass black millions or billions of kilometers across. your head and feet is small, so the tides fall in pretty much intact -- if that makes But compared to either flavor of black hole, that gets too close to any black hole can witnessed just such an event. In a distant a black hole, and was torn apart by the ferocious in brightness, momentarily blasting out a how we were able to see it even though it But I've saved the weirdest thing for last. that space isn't just emptiness, it's matter and energy is embedded. What we perceive space, like the way a bowling ball on top The more massive an object, the more it warps Not only that, but space and time are basically space-time. You can't affect one without when a massive object warps space, it also influence of an object perceives time as ticking object. I know, it's bizarre; we think of see it move at the same rate. But the Universe Einstein was right (he was right a lot). This slowing of time is stronger the stronger ticks a bit slower than someone far away from real, and we've actually measured it on However, if you get near a black hole, the holes warp space-time so much that, at the see your clock running normally, and you'd far away would see your clock ticking more mechanical or perception effect; it's actually outside looking down on you, your fall would But then, they wouldn't be able to actually fight the intense gravity of the black hole This is very similar to the Doppler redshift is called a gravitational redshift. When you're observer would see your clock stop, they'd redshift! Your light would lose ALL its energy hole, and you'd be invisible. And from your viewpoint? Buckle up, because this is...WOW. You'd see the universe speed up, and just as you hit the that light coming at you from the Universe energy that you'd be fried. But since you're about to See? Like I said...WOW. Black holes are so strange, with such fiercely that scientists are still trying to figure some scientists argue that the event horizon and that when you apply quantum mechanics can slowly leak out. We're still new at be the most complex objects in the cosmos. Black holes, as bizarre and counterintuitive out as we poke our noses into more and bigger scary and weird -- and let's be honest: of the objects we see in the Universe. Today you learned that stellar mass black and its core collapses. The core has to be to form a black hole. Black holes come in escape velocity is greater than the speed or light. They don't wander the Universe gravity is only really intense very close will spaghettify you, and time slows down this helps much if you're falling in. Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to get sucked into even more me, Phil Plait. The script was edited by Blake Thaller. It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, is Michael Aranda, and the graphics team is