THIS is a movie. And this is a movie. And this revolution in home entertainment that brought down It weighs nearly a pound and a half, and actually a 12 5/8 " x 13 7/8 " plastic housing that pushed the basic concept of the all to turn your shag mustard-colored It took some filthy milk crates, the patience of connection to understand what this thing It was a fascinating and ambitious idea was... a total disaster that splattered mix named Nipper on the semi-truck I was flipping through the February 1984 issue "Video Teachers" - and that one article took and then, weirdly, back to the future. William videodisc players that could do more than It could be an on-demand video teacher, but It was called the "Selectavision 400." I'd never even heard of the Selectavision a video rental store. My adolescent brain clay in the hands of hundreds of viewings and Adventures in Babysitting - and it was I usually only get a piece of is - but I grabbed a refurbished RCA All I had were those Popular Science articles. quizzes at the end of a videodisc lesson the Universe" is an interactive exploration of And that was my first problem I searched the depths of eBay for a copy that I got nothing, not even past auctions in featured in the article, "A Walk Through the CED Magic is an exhaustive and comprehensive including a breakdown of all the interactive the Universe" explains how it was only institutions - it was never available for retail dawn of interactive educational videodiscs through the universe from your couch - What's going on here? Hawkins did mention three other interactive discs, I got all three to play at the There are lots of goofy relics of antiquated it clear that the Selectavision was a "Here At Last: Video-Disc Players." Now we content in our pockets and living rooms - but in was music. It had been nearly 100 years since and the proliferation of vinyl records You could buy any song or album you wanted, wanted. 8-tracks came along and cassette tapes But video? The only way to see or chopped up into commercially-separated were playing fixed-time-slotted Did ya miss the latest episode of The Incredible Grandma Gertrude's dodgy oyster dip to be polite? on, you spent the Mos Eisley cantina scene John Free's article about RCA and Phillips/MCA viewers could control what they watched - which was physically massive - with discs side. They didn't have a caddy yet, so they "Pictures I've seen at several The keys to entertainment were about to "Both the RCA and Philips/MCA players video-cassette recorders, video games, viewers that their TV receivers can easily display He was absolutely right, and so Anyone reading this cover story be on shelves. The article actually It was... not available later that year. Or with Jaws. Or for the rest of Jimmy Carter's ice were the Cold War, a hockey miracle, The Selectavision took four more years But the idea was fantastic. Everyone curating realtime audio expressions of their same thing with movies they loved If you're RCA, there's no reason NOT to think they actually projected that by 1990 their annual That... did not happen. Let's get back to my When I unboxed it, it had a warning label USE" that was stuck on with painter's tape. was up with the screws - and he explained that, home position so it couldn't move, and possibly there would have been a pair Extreme fragility and delicate chicken and jell-o in a silhouette I turned it on and popped the plastic out at me. That seemed really weird to me - I it would stay in there. I pulled it back out and These discs are not like VHS tapes - they just a protective housing for the disc the way a floppy disk is. And this makes perfect by a plastic shell when it needs to be read But mine was about to explode I went to hit the eject button, and... there which is strangely poetic. Now it's telling it can suck the disc back into it. And Okay, so I messaged the seller to let him He said it's happened to him before when a one sixteenth inch allen wrench to adjust the knocking. He even linked me to a video The video is literally a guy with a bottles... because the adjustment hole inaccessible if it's on a table, and you you make the platter height adjustment So this is kind of a pain, but whatever - smallest is five sixty-fourths. This set stops one OF COURSE. My dad saved me an Amazon order by and he had a couple dirty old milk crates on while I adjusted it. After a few gone and I was successfully spinning "48 But that's a movie - not an interactive the Popular Science writer was the 400's and interactivity with the Digital Command RCA spent nearly a quarter of its entire history what's inside the videodisc caddy itself is leading expert on the Selectavision to But before that we need to The Radio Corporation of America radio communications. They created the and purchased the Victor Talking Machine Company most recognizable dog of the 20th century. and in 1954 they launched the So yeah. RCA was huge. They'd always been at the and after the color TV they next big thing. Why wouldn't they go from The problem was... well, there When RCA got the idea for a videodisc a lot of sense. Yeah, what they developed scratches, and fingerprints in a way that but that's ok - you can imprison it in a with that layer of insulation, the discs still that could never be cleaned. Never. Because Why? How did any of this even work? Hi, Kevin. The plastic caddies held what they isn't much different from vinyl records but it as much information as a long-playing record on disc at 450 revolutions per minute, 13 times carbon-loaded PVC discs held high-density an inch on each side read by a keel-shaped an electronic circuit is formed that contains disc. Which is why when you hit pause the screen frames at once. Each side of the disc held 60 minutes required a second video disc. Uhh, hope Okay. It's ironic that by pushing their absolute limit, they turned of media in tech history into one of RCA put 17 years of development into the release. Everyone increasingly wanted same appliances restaurants had, a swimming at home? And why not your own movie theater RCA Chairman Edgar Griffiths said that just for this generation, but for the changed substantially in 50 years - why RCA launched the videodisc with $20 including an hour-long presentation hosted by even had its own song, "We're Stayin' In out of a giant RCA television to dance on top "We're all through sayin' Or what time's the game or fight? Night after night! We won't have to stand in line You play your disc We're stayin' in tonight!" Yeah nothing could hype me up more style full motion video murder mystery and magically projected into my TV. It VidMax claimed that "Murder, Anyone?" kind. And being able to show you To both play the game and record the footage, I while also getting the footage to my laptop. then a USB 2.0 to USB-C adapter for the laptop. that I use to hook up retro video game consoles but only 1 output, and I needed to I found a 1-input, 4-output splitter on Amazon we can see "Murder, Anyone?", "A Week at I threw in Murder, Anyone? and Three years before she went Back to the Future, and four years before she rocked out with acting debut as distant cousin Sissy Loper in And private investigator Stew Cavanaugh was would be immortalized in 1980s cinematic lore There are 16 murder mysteries you can choose you do that - which is so intricate that it handbook you should've been On your Digital Command Center Remote, press numerical program band. The instructions include Program Band codes. So if you want to play 17, and 22, and then press the "SEEK" button. the disc to those respective sections and present So, you watch the story, and that's the end of you have to eject the disc and flip it over to you enter the Band number not the Program Band clues by searching Pages on the disc. Here, the the location of everything you need to solve the suspects, which are NOT VIDEO INTERVIEWS answer. And there's no background music or you just pull up a list of clues like or a telephone record with the times a clue you have to go back to the proper BAND If you're stuck, you can access DESPERATION To solve the case you run through the Murderer, values. The murder is two numbers, the motive accusation you hit the Page button and enter your Murderer, the number for the Motive and the Method If your accusation is wrong, the screen says, "Incorrect! Lose a turn!" and if it's If you're hosting a party and everyone's playing to NOT have fun. The inputs are so frequent and close attention all the time so they can respond guzzles his 4th martini as he's waiting and the first place is so bored he's thinking on a designated driver, but it's a designated Because this is the cutting edge interactive then? I have no idea. I wasn't born. But it's of electronic entertainment in the era - you were in a sophisticated way compared to trying to time disagreed - it decided that blasting Space "Many Roads to Murder" is the thrilling Gleason returns as Stew Cavanaugh - but Lea a youth guerilla war against the Soviets, and And if you loved how RCA bet you could wager your entire fake retirement "A Week at the Races" was a horse gambling triple crown races in his career and is one of play money and numbered plastic pieces to place and see who wins and who places - and, strangely, offers unlimited fun, but with 48 pre-recorded Can you imagine the fights that would break out having seen the race? The hosts could never many times could you invite the same guest The instructions even mention that you need watched and the murders you've already solved The thing is... the Selectavision revolution was dead before those horses even Margaret B. W. Graham spent nearly 10 the Selectavision for her book "Business actually started as an applied history Business Administration in 1976 - 5 years She explains that RCA was coming off a generation including 1971's $250 million failed attempt at They were desperately trying to return to And they saw video discs as an affordable, mass living rooms. The players cost $499, which is and $24.98 - which would be $54 to $90 now. VCRs twice as expensive and VHS tapes were almost four up to $90 - adjusted for inflation, it was nearly RCA was already selling VCRs for CALLED SELECTAVISION. So you'd go into and they'd have a ridiculous conversation with the tape thing and answer 42 questions And that wasn't even the major problem. They movies at all. The real videophiles did, and expected them to. They launched with a massive would average 8. The real number was upwards so they couldn't justify continued investment The question they didn't seem to ask versus how many do you just want to watch? The to pay a couple bucks to see a movie - it was a maybe you'll rent it again in the future, and was so intent on replicating the vinyl record what streaming services are now built upon: for So... why couldn't people just rent Their contracts with movie RENTALS. RCA couldn't have rented out A certain kind of media satisfied RCA's home entertainment: because there are some WITH THE DOOR LOCKED AND THE CURTAINS DRAWN. By 1984 pornographic films accounted for a full tapes - it was a significant reason the prohibited adult films from being released tarnish RCA's wholesome, family-friendly, The VCR defined the entertainment of a recording live TV, and lust - 3 things the But ultimately... they were just too reflected on its failure by saying, "Five success. If we came out with it three years And he's probably right - if it really had Science article, it would have changed on the project - billions today. They stopped 1984. In December 1985, a damaged, devalued and 66 years of dominance in consumer effectively over. They gambled it all on the Now we have access to every form of media we we make ourselves, from TikTokers making short video essays and documentaries. Every movie live and archived sporting and every song you've ever heard is Margaret Graham's postmortem on the Selectavision that had only two possible outcomes - RCA was right about everyone wanting a broad variety of immersive entertainment in their pockets. They were wrong about how failure" took Nipper from staring into Okay. 27, 06, 22. Seek. See... see you... see you in the f...fu...future.