The clubhouse was being That does happen. My truck was blown up, it does go on. And I don't know that My name's Pat Matter. I was involved in outlaw I was the president and founder of Hells Angels. Today we'll be looking at to judge how real they are. You wouldn't find the with the chase scene where The riding the motorcycle on anyway, and if you're trying to you'd most generally want But it has happened in On this show were actual So it gets scenes from or scripted from the real Hells Angels. The motorcycle Jax is riding on is Harley Davidson Dyna Glide, which was preferably the As far as riding goes, the riding formation is the president, I rode the left lane all the time, and generally who I But typically if we went in order, it'd be the vice president, you know, with the secretary bringing up the rear Of course, that's kind of out the window when you're in a motorcycle chase. So I don't think formation's SG 551s, AKs. As far as gun running, the Minneapolis chapter It draws too much heat. I tried to remain undercover But there was instances during a time when some of the Hells Angels And that was in South Carolina. because I was out of the $500K should cover half They're wearing black leather vests, which happened to be made by Hells Angels. Lil Joe from Purdue owned the company. So usually a typical Hells Angel vest, you would have the which would be Hells Angels which is the death head, stating where you're from. You have the choice of or a denim, a vest, you know? And I personally wore so I'd base it on a 4 probably overall. Told you to take that stupid jacket off. You'd have to kill me Where he said, &quot;You'll have to kill me I'm sure that would've That's what I called the cut, or whatever. You know, that jacket has As far as any outlaw club, it is probably about the biggest have as an outlaw member, And if you're going to well, they say 99% of motorcycle riders are law-abiding, and And the Hells Angels happens You lose your patch, that's There's going to be retaliation. What about the bar? Burn it down. A scene like this where the bar gets burnt down In 1994, we had a prospective chapter that the Minnesota was Hells the Hells Henchmen. And they had a clubhouse in Chicago. Well, naturally, the and they didn't like another club wanting to join the Hells Angels. So there was a bomb placed in a car right outside the clubhouse, and I believe it was the on the United States soil. One of my members from and I was worried about him being, I remember this very well, so I called down to find out And nobody got hurt on this deal, but it was quite a big deal. This would be a 10, because it's happened. I mean I've, you know, A prospect, you know, has for one year before he can I run a lie-detector before I ever let him become a prospect to see if they had ever or ever testified against anybody. In the membership of the Hells Angels, there's naturally the president, a vice president, secretary, a treasury, and a sergeant of arms. And the idea of prospect is and see what he's about. With the drugs out in the open in a place where other folks are working, and it seemed like the club was all there doing it as a whole, that wouldn't happen in the Hells Angels. Because all the Hells Angels aren't into illegal activities. Some are, some aren't. In the Hells Angels, I did get involved of methamphetamine. In my situation, there store involved, or any store, you know? Mine was all hand-delivered I was very transparent with what I did. So members, if they wanted to my illegal activity, could, and there was no problem if As far as the drugs as a whole and a business scene like that, no, I'd say that's a from my point of view. The clubhouse was being That does happen. My experiences, you I run into a lot of clubs drag racing, and when I went to the races, I wore a bulletproof vest at all times and always made sure as I was surrounded once by the Outlaws and another time by the Pagans. After one incident in Milwaukee, there was a bomb, C4, planted in my truck. In '93, December 15, is So things like this do happen, you know. Unfortunately it does go on, and I don't know that Have your vote? I vote for war. I vote war. Membership voting on the to war with another club. The Hells Angels are club there is. And it's a &quot;one man, one vote.&quot; So the president's only, you know, he says what's going on at the time, but if there's a meeting, he's But it depends on, you know, the president's usually a from that charter, and so And then the other two, Well I'd like to say, you know, the revving of the in the Hells Angels, but like I said, again, the you know, when we come to town and stuff. Fellas, youse are not dressed properly. Youse going to have to leave. Properly? What's wrong Them are mostly Hells Steve from Bridgeport, and Greg Domey from Massachusetts. Bars for clubs to hang out in, but it's usually bars that were, the club knows folks, so they can come in with their attire on. A lot of bars refuse to Which goes into, in Minnesota here I had a that we passed for, it's illegal for bars the clothing you wear and when you do go to bars. That wasn't very nice. Now youse got to leave. I'll tell you when the That happens quite a bit. Barroom fights generally, if they tell you they refuse to serve you with your colors on, or the club would leave. An instant go to jail, you know, when you get into brawl like that. Well this happened in Laughlin, Nevada. The Hells Angels ran into another club called the Mongols in a casino. And naturally the two and it jumped off in the casino. Wasn't planned that way, but in them circumstances, Sonny, come on, let's get the f--- out. In the scene here, I see Sonny in the Well, you know, I've never And in the club, don't care if it's the mafia that's telling them they're with their patch on. It would happen. There would be a brawl. I give it a 7 or 8, and not real frequent. Members only, pork chop. It's OK, I'm meeting a friend. What's this big shot's name? If you have somebody unannounced you usually talk to them before, you know, you That part is very doable there. You have to have a clubhouse in the Hells Angels. And security-wise, yes, we had both ways, from law enforcement that wanted to plant bombs or whatever. I'm a lawyer. I just, I just need five minutes. Let's say we had a party and we open up the clubhouse, you're more apt to have a problem there, because they don't get there's tickets being sold to everybody. And generally if you're doing a benefit, you want people to come back. There's a sign on the wall &quot;If you're not bleeding you're welcome back.&quot; So I mean, you know, it I mean, you know, if it is or whatever, yeah. If I don't get answers, a lot of innocent blood could be shed. I-90 with four brothers No, a member don't share to somebody from the general or something to that effect. If he did, he'd be kicked out. What am I going to do here? Four. Not saying it couldn't happen, but it wouldn't happen Not in the Minneapolis chapter. I don't think I could stand the smell. No, that's not a typical, you know, burning it off would be pretty harsh. They're usually just covered That's bad enough. As far as tattooing, here's My chapter in Minneapolis, so you had to have a year a club tattoo. The thing with getting that tattoo is when you leave the club, your tattoo remains the same way it was. It's just an out date on it. Let's say you was out That's got to be on there. Otherwise, if you're out in bad standings, they're inked over. I give it a 4 because of that. The reality here. This worthless piece of s--- is a cop. With an undercover police officer trying to infiltrate the club, Hells Angels have had try to infiltrate the club. One was Jay Dobyns. Until they did the raids is when he was finally And there was another He never got found out And what he did was he come to Minnesota, our club was doing security on membership that joined the meeting, He seen that we was checking So I did have a little experience with a situation like this. What the f--- you looking at, pig? Take it easy, friend. As I see here, Charlie Sheen, he's trying to build his cover so they don't figure out he's In my experience, what I did actually was, I never worked undercover Most of mine was just, you know, confirming what I did in my business. Two individuals went to jail over that, and one was a Hells Angel, When I decided to cooperate, I ended up going to and if I didn't cooperate, they was going to charge me with after they got enough informants. And so I decided that and my age, that I was going to cooperate. With the other charge, who Could've been life. You're under arrest, Blood. I was a hard-core Hells Angel, and I don't regret being a Hells Angel. I regret some of the actions that I did when I was a Hells Angel. That part is on me. As far as when I got out of prison, I was asked to do seminars Just telling them about and what happened to me and how they can maybe This is 10, you know, or 9 or 10, because it does happen. You can't be here. It's private property. Sign says Yellowstone. As far as being on private the Hells Angels would've that there was no problem When Hells Angels usually it's because they've and get permission. Trespassing we wouldn't do. It'd be looking for trouble. You got a problem ? I called you a ----. There is no membership as far as the Hells Angels or the other club I was involved in. And usually the women there As far as the trespassing and the women being involved I've never seen it happen. And I'd probably rate that at a zero, because I've never seen it happen. The reality of the club being I haven't seen it. In some cases, it has happened. For instance, in 1948 in Hollister, there was an event that with a few motorcycle clubs being there. In a situation like this, where just local citizens if there's no reason I'd only give it a very low score. Two. You're a prospective now, man. I think if I was a prospect and had that all poured over You know, usually if a we'll go out to a bar or My initiation was really nothing. I mean, you're voted in and congratulated, and we had a big party. That stuff might have '94, we all rode to San from Minneapolis to San So it's very common for and ride across country like If there's room to do it and stuff. If they're at a hill climb and stuff, yeah, you know, I can see members joining or a drag race, whatever. But yeah, usually the run you know, hanging out from other charters and On a scale from one to because, you know, afterwards The only thing I don't is pouring all the stuff on the member. As far as clubs and chains in a brawl, yeah, anything's used in a brawl, I guess. I was to say like the women's Polish Hall, they had club, knives, chains. No guns. They had planted before it But guns come into play also when stuff like this happens. A 3, because attacking with a chain just is not really common. My favorite biker gang and reason is, there's some Hells Angels that helped film that show, and it's kind of a take of the Hells Angels. Thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this video,