Hello everyone, my name is Thanh. Wish you a good day! These are the vegetables that are in my garden, okra , chicks have grown after 5 months, potatoes, asparagus, today I will go harvest vegetables to bring to the village to sell. Many people in the village have ordered vegetables. For me, because my vegetables don't have pesticides to pollinate pumpkins, I planted 3 trellises of cucumbers, which are now producing fruits to harvest for refreshment right in the village. I brought them to deliver to those who ordered. Last time I bought 6 bunches of vegetables, 1 bunch of vegetables cost 5 thousand VND (~0.25$). 6 bunches of vegetables = ~1.2$ , thank you, I bought 1 bunch of this, I bought 1 bunch , 5,000 VND, 1 bunch, bought 2 bunches = 10,000 VND, very delicious vegetables, 2 bunches, 10,000 VND, thank you my friend I bought 4 bunches of vegetables and sold all the vegetables today, the total proceeds were 120 thousand VND (~6$). I returned when it was about to get dark and passed through a wild field with a lot of frogs here. Frog meat after being harvested. It will be delicious to eat, so I will find and catch them to sell. This species of frog often appears in ponds or wild fields at night. During the day, they will burrow into holes in the field banks, only coming out at night to eat. looking for food at the same time 2 still appeared here after nearly 1 hour I caught about 20 frogs it was time to return to moving at night with the help of my phone's flash I picked a few ears of corn When I returned, grilled and enjoyed dinner the next morning, the chicks I bought at the market the other day, had now grown up and were about to lay eggs. The okra had grown and produced a lot of fruit to harvest and sell for money. buy many items for the house and life. This wild flower is very delicious. I don't know its name. It flowers and falls from this big tree. When eaten, it has a slightly bitter taste and has the effect of stabilizing the blood. pressure for those with high blood pressure. It's very good for my health. I will go harvest more vegetables to sell and make money. The small mic looks so cute. Going to the village to sell will cost half as much as going to the central market. The important thing is that I can always sell. Out of stock, with the shortened route, I can sell twice a day. There are a lot of people passing by on this street. This guy is a regular customer and often buys my products. This sister buys vegetables and 2 more frogs to buy and sell at a good price. Wishing you a lot of sales. Next time, buy to support me. Ok ok sister, what are you selling? You sell frogs, vegetables, okra, and wild flowers. How do you sell frogs? Frog 1 5 thousand VND (~0.25$) or you buy vegetables, the vegetables are also very delicious. You buy vegetables, you buy them all and take them home to make kimchi pickles. Sell all the frogs and okra for 110 thousand VND (~6$) thank you. Cook the frogs with hot water, wash them, chop them into pieces with spices including turmeric and lolot leaves. This is a very fragrant leaf. soaked in spices, salt and monosodium glutamate and finally lolot leaves, very fragrant. Enjoy the meat, very firm and sweet and very fragrant. After dinner, I take a bath and go to bed. The next day.... brush the dog's fur. Mic regularly every day, she also likes to brush her feathers because she finds it refreshing to feed the chickens and start today's work Harvesting large custard apples this is a young custard apple fruit custard apple flower this is a fruit Thai custard apple, very large, each fruit up to 1kg. There are custard apples ripening on the tree. Do you have this custard apple in your country? Please share with me. Slice the bottom of the basket to avoid scratching the custard apple. Discovering a ripe custard apple, peeling off the skin and eating the inside of the sliced custard apple is considered a fruit that combines the flavors of custard apple. bananas, papayas, strawberries, pineapples... very sweet, fragrant, and has a very appealing taste. This is the seed of the custard apple fruit in Vietnam. Thai custard apple fruit has a high economic value, 1kg up to 120,000 VND ~ 6$ , and has very high nutritional value . Thai custard apple is known as the &quot;queen of fruit&quot;, so most Vietnamese people like to eat this fruit, including me. Hihi, after harvesting, leave it for 3 to In 5 days, the custard apple will be ripe, smelling very fragrant and sweet Each fruit like this is up to 1kg. This is the fruit with the highest economic value among the fruits I have harvested. I think in foreign countries, custard apple has to be imported so it is sold at a very high price? Please share with me this fruit is so delicious . There are ripe custard apples that fall on the ground. The sliced custard apple inside has very few seeds and is sweeter and tastier than regular custard apple. The big custard apples look really nice. Vietnam is the land. Tropical country, so there is a lot of variety in fruit, now we focus on harvesting quickly to be on time for the most recent market session at the local market selling custard apples at this location. Custard apples are too big for 2$/1kg, just choose freely, choose the fruits The most delicious is not enough 2kg. 1.7kg costs 4$. This is the fruit with the highest economic value from the past until now that I have harvested in return for 1$. Thank you, just buy 1 fruit . I can eat my fill for 2$, thank you, the fruits here are still green and not yet ripe. I want to buy ripe fruits to eat right away. There are still a few more fruits in my basket, let me take one out. .6 kg = 4$ in return for 1$, thank you, buy custard apple and eat it, ma'am. Yes, these are ripe custard apples. Thank you there are many customers today. How much is 0.5 kg ? 1.2$ thank you thank you 0.5kg = 1.2$ plums 0.8kg = 2$ donuts for women and children 2kg = 5$ dragon fruit The next night I went to pick cucumbers