Storytelling is an innately limited thing, and make their audience forget that for a while. world of infinite possibility and countless mirrors. Every story has an extremely limited a book its wordcount, a TV show its season order, pack in the plot and core cast in such a way that any story could ever actually put on screen. For a the world has enough depth to immerse them, a fictional story can never be deeper than And of the various mediums of storytelling, video to creating the illusion of scope. Because unlike an active participant, and while most stories stuff and thin background set-dressing that's just in a video game can find that line, and the more extremely immersion-breaking understanding of what and what is just there to look pretty. What critical for quest progression, and what's just a game and the more exploration they attempt that immersive the game will inevitably feel, which can challenging, which means the player won't just which means they're going to have to replay parts of a tricky bossfight or going through the whole is the fastest way to wring the impact out of a when you're playing out the script of the main caricatures as soon as their unique dialogue is set of one to six filler lines communicating the terrifying and unpredictable breaks down to a fights them. Glitches and bugs are the number one nothing wrings the depth out of a game more And there's nothing that can be done about If you play it for long enough, it'll run out of that I find intriguingly self-defeating, which of endless postgame content. The player can just all its unique story and scripting, giving the Ending that kind of reduces both the happiness you win&quot; situation. Now it feels like an endless purgatory of looping mechanics, no no more progress to be had. This is as good as not intended as an existential nightmare, and I do but I don't really think there's any other way that the world that seems vast and full of and quickly exhausted. As the player's progress out of challenges for them, we experience a We've become too powerful, too well-traveled. world that once seemed so vast and inviting now And it's this special circle of today through the trope of the time loop. you apply that tortuous logic of replaying a video story. Either through their own power or through their control, a character begins reliving the usually no more than a few days. Outside of the every time - non-looping secondary characters will the same input, etcetera. Timeloops are a form about, but timeloop stories are structurally narratives and explore very different plots own day in the limelight. Or, as it may happen, there are too many easy jokes I could be making, through this video or redo the intro like they're annoying to be in. Any joke I make about Which actually brings up an important point. timeloops that the looping character has no is doing on purpose. The primary difference is going to look for a way out of it because being in moving forward, they're gonna be very invested But if a character has some sort of timeloop least know how to theoretically stop, the on getting out of the loop, it's going to center of some seemingly insurmountable task. gives the looping character functionally infinite window of time from a few minutes to a few days, will happen the same way every time if they don't the part of the timeloop narrative that maps to to beat. The fight's on a timer and the boss's you shoulda zagged and now you're a player pancake A timeloop of this variety basically puts the trying to get really, really good at one specific before they realize they're in a loop, the story scenario really is, usually by killing them in a is only a reset button, they'll start getting memory, not making the same mistake twice. Over their strategy to absolute laser precision, challenge, yea, but it's also a predictable one. look very different, but they actually break down a timeloop is primarily trying to find a way out by accomplishing some seemingly insurmountable Day, it turns out our nominal hero can't escape genuinely good person that it makes his coworker impossible task, especially for someone who starts who has control over the loops isn't trapped by the insurmountable challenge they need to use loops they don't just get immediately bodied. In that he'll stop looping if he receives a hefty the ongoing alien invasion is going to straight-up is their release condition or just their personal leave the timeloop only after they accomplish time and practice they need to make that happen. timeloop plots are very basic and, topologically, because what a timeloop plot really is is development. The most interesting part of to be what it does to the looping character, and To start with, a timeloop story carves away story structure by making the looping character's grappling with the consequences of their decisions that drops to zero. Suddenly the character follow them into the next loop. Long term and don't matter. It's not uncommon for characters they want with wild abandon, which is a very this character when their actions stop mattering? which does something similar: put a character in a what decision they make. They could do something just passively enable something terrible for nobody will know to blame them or praise them. hold them accountable but themselves? Sticking this with interest, because we don't just see the in the dark&quot; shows a very deep and foundational timeloop has nothing but time to undergo character spend their early timeloops robbing banks or with him - Groundhog Day is a horror movie and I see that character change. In the final loop of daily routine out of saving everyone he can in to potentially deadly hazards, and it's clear he's he has. When the day resets he'll have to do it the extent of what he's done for them. There is good or bad, and while in the early loops that things in a context nobody could judge or punish person who does everything he can to alleviate of it will last and he'll have to choose to do shows us what happens to a character when they're an extremely limited context. While most stories new and interesting sides to them by placing them the scenario constant and sees how the character situation over and over again. There is also the trapped in the timeloop, what possibilities are loop? In Groundhog Day, Phil thinks that maybe the tries a groundhog murder-suicide, and it doesn't &quot;hey, maybe I can't get out of this loop unless I... And how long would he stay in the loop before existential horror that are just laced through play it for implied or explicit onscreen horror, we don't see! Anyway, this is a tangent, but my characters to extremes that they would, under never ever be willing to do. And there's an reveals about the character. What does it reveal when they are beyond the point of desperation, have lasting consequences for the most part? could be made about how to judge the morality of is I don't have to do that because Jacob Geller just go watch that instead. Okay, back on script. is character dynamics. Because only the the premise of the timeloop story disconnects them while they will remember every conversation and those characters will lose their memory every an incredibly meaningful heart to heart and the next day it won't have happened for one hero from absolutely everybody. Some of them do have to re-explain it every time through, and it's at least in the early loops. The longer the loops the more alienated the looping character but also - consider how deeply unsettling this day this dude is your new asshole coworker and the years of profound sadness and casually referencing of your old flame. The timeloop communication gap and dramatic irony, especially if the characters a timeloop is happening just from the context There's a lot a story can do with the information out-of-the-loop peers. While the audience looping character closely, as time drags on for the story to start jumping around or skipping character and potentially enabling some twists character has tried something already. because it does some really fascinating stuff are very simple: take a character struggling character who had previously been in a timeloop. and Rita uniquely fasciating, because while only very experienced with exactly what he's dealing that he's in a timeloop, he can just prove it an interesting element to their dynamic that grows off and private, but by the midpoint of the movie and in those loops, she's revealed information deflects. Which begs the question, how close have her to have volunteered that information? She's it's always the first time she's met him, but with her. Their relationship grows more intimate widens. This culminates in a very good scene where way too familiar with the &quot;random&quot; farmhouse he's admits that he's gotten this far way too many alive beyond this point. He was trying to play it peace between death loops, but Rita doesn't have chances, so as soon as he owns up, she does what try and take out the threat and gets herself asymmetrical: Cage is inevitably falling deeper but for her it's always the first day they've met, important than whatever feelings he's developing relationship writing that really leverages Also is she called Rita because, uh, Rita Groundhog Day? Because if so this is the funniest like &quot;it's groundhog day but what if they and Phil, uh, d-was played by Tom Cruise&quot; &quot;wait, how many times have we done this?&quot; is and - weirdly - one of my favorite examples the 2004 animated show that wasn't tied in with in that same window. Overall I think the show is especially in season 4, and one of them is as &quot;The Clock King Episode.&quot; Yea, the Clock What I think makes this such a fun version of antagonist of the episode. He has the superpower but he uses this to basically save-scum his his way through a robbery, and at the moment the avoids all the pitfalls he hit the last time, this point we spend most of the episode following as they try to figure out how to deal with this prepared for everything they try. Because when our heroes beat him, he can just hit the of their next move and how to avoid it. And if he right. He even rewinds a couple times just so he Batman fight him, we follow the Clock King's POV he rewinds until he's able to win and gets away really happens and retconning our bat-hero's that the fights seemed weirdly staged, like his but very standard stuff for a timeloop. What's heroes try to intercept his crime-ing and our villain. As soon as they arrive, Batman gets clear to both him and the audience that whatever's the villain of the episode has control over the were going to win this version of the encounter, wouldn't let it be canon. Sure enough, they get time he's beaten is a villain who can't lose. highlight, specifically circling back to the kind of loop. Because a timeloop replicates the over again, some interesting things can happen a video game about a time loop. Mechanically it scenario our hero can explore and don't bother after a certain point our hero's just gonna get puts the player in the head of someone trapped than a story that just follows someone trapped in character going through all five stages of grief - There's a couple games I wanna highlight that vs character&quot; spectrum here, so consider this a of the video for some discussion of the baked-in Wilds. That's right! I played Outer Wilds it would be the only thing in my comments section! In Stars and Time and Outer Wilds both have a I personally don't think I spoil anything of discuss how either of the games end, but a lot game you have to go into completely blind and and I personally disagree, I think you can be about the game without in any way having the be spoiling any information that isn't already an absolutely spoiler-free playthrough of those Anyway, on the extreme character-focus end is In like a pretty standard JRPG-style adventure where but it quickly becomes clear that it is in fact on the looping character, Siffrin, the party increasingly frustrated and hopeless the more this is all bolstered through Siffrin feeling the feelings of time loop hell easier and reassuring when the game basically tells you that's supposed to happen, you're not doing deteriorating mental state and growing sense of One of the most interesting and heartbreaking inability to see their beloved teammates they are real people, but Siffrin has had every can only see them as actors on a stage at this tired dialogue over and over again - even though are far more insightful than he gives them credit their scripting in small ways because they can Mechanically, this allows the game to talking about at the very beginning: you've of depth has been completely shattered, the nothing more than familiar looping dialogue, to mean anything anymore but you still keep the timeloop (possibly by putting the game down) not a good feeling to realize you've exhausted so much joy. But because In Stars And Time is a that concept without actually running out of new the player becoming acutely aware of the limits the main character feeling their world shrinking crushingly alone while surrounded by the people story is about how important it is to let stories characters in the game can continue to surprise final loop. In purposefully recreating the feeling In Stars And Time avoids all the story-weakening And on the other end of the spectrum is Outer in the sense that they exist, but they don't basically just a vessel for the player, and towards immersing the player pretty fully in serving as much of a buffer at all. The game that saves your permanent progress is written in describe what you've discovered, and your in a timeloop very quickly and then just kind of... is nothing more than the spacesuit we put on at feel about what's happening is pretty limited to of the game alone in space and NPCs are extremely your dialogue options remain unchanged from loop have many thoughts about their situation beyond understand or what's a simple cold-read on what when your autopilot steers you into the sun, you to the spaceship engineer that their autopilot bet that you are going to be annoyed about this. mention that you're in a timeloop, but nobody's player character is pretty much an empty vessel in they don't provide much of a buffer between And having recently experienced The Horrors for nightmare fuel, but it actually sidesteps a lot structure just because the character experiencing undergo development independent of the player, evolve - the timeloop is there to structurally doomed solar system and unravel what happened and what, if anything, can be done I think what Outer Wilds reveals from a timeloop about how the player would handle a timeloop, because timeloops are one of those tropes that it pretty firmly in the realm of speculation. So can be enlightening for writers of all stripes! forms, Outer Wilds scares the absolute shit out of is cold, airless, unforgiving, disorienting waiting to invent new ways to kill you dead. And and that means death doesn't matter. you'll just wake up at the beginning of the loop more about all the ways the universe wants to kill it next time. Now what was interesting to me when aware that (a) it was a videogame and therefore in and therefore even in-game death was not a threat, ways Outer Wilds can and will kill you. Getting sucks. Running out of oxygen sucks. Getting airless cave really sucks. But there are no exploration is that you learn. The game constantly over and over again, and sometimes the unknown you always learn something from it. That unique getting better at whatever it is you're doing the shortcuts, you're experimenting with new And at the same time... the game doesn't force your in space. You can sit down at any campfire and the time you have in excess. You never even have time running around your home village, talking with the kids, you can. The game won't stop you. you with some of the mechanics, but why shouldn't need to go go go all the time, and you won't in a while. The sun's not going anywhere. pretty commonly explored, but usually only characters in a timeloop are stuck in a enough to achieve the impossible. But with also take a vacation. Take a really long nap. and eat your weight in donuts. In a culture terrified of wasting precious seconds or ruining unique experiences a character in a timeloop might all the time they need to just... reset. But in most in some sort of personal darkest hour where the and this loop only serves to prove what'll happen out. Cage spends one of his Edge of Tomorrow loops sure it's all hopeless, and that's how he sees to stop the invasion. This fills him with newfound into trying to find a way to win. In contrast, in giant pile of dessert while he talks about nothing normally avoid to preserve his health or just except that he's still in the timeloop, and given all out of his system and his consequence-free can just stay in the timeloop and eat donuts this forbidden indulgence does not actually fulfil the crushing existential nightmare of the loop. judgmental of our hero/player. The goal of about what's happening and what has happened in new videogame, why not explore the parts of you won't get back to the main plot eventually, it costs you absolutely nothing to be kind anything, least of all how you spend your last might inspire the kind of time loop nihilism consequence-free monsters - or it might inspire endless limited time with the people you love, and So... yeah!