You hear so much about the Israeli-Palestinian heard the opinion of an average Israeli? Not a or far right, but a middle-of-the-road Israeli. am your average Israeli, with an MA in Israeli the occupation, settlements and refugees, but They will tell you that in the beginning there Jews who lived peacefully alongside the Muslims. movement started to bring Jews to Palestine to rounds of violence between the two sides. This massive deportations, which in turn led to Now narratives are great, but The land of Israel has a long, long history. The the Turks, the Mamluks, the French, the British the Greeks... There was never a Palestinian people and I will get to that, but never a group of If you think that I'm wrong, then Was it in the 12th century? The 17th tell me the name of a Palestinian leader in the Now some name Daher al-Omar as a Palestinian al-Omar was a talented Bedouin ruler of neglected Ottoman rule. He rebelled against Galilee, until he was murdered by his soldiers. there was a Palestinian people, The land of Israel was neglected, impoverished years and before that it was part of the Here is an interesting fact: When Jerusalem was never the capital. It When Jews and Christians ruled the land of Israel, This makes sense as Jerusalem is mentioned and in the New Testament, but in the Quran is mostly about Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. Jews. I am pointing out a simple, indisputable are in the Land of Israel. The holiest Now let's move on and talk about colonialism! colonialist powers, which simply took over land, on. Until the Arabs started a war against us, 100% You don't agree? Prove me wrong! "Oren, in 1936 the village X was established on single example. Now if you're thinking: well, bought the poor locals out, you're wrong. The There is an unbelievable correlation between the in the UN partition plan and the areas Zionist pioneers, with a tremendous amount of into gold. And Zionist doctors made an important Before I say a few words about the Palestinians nearby - Jordan. Jordan is the result of British made by the British. The British said to one of help us fight against the Turks and That is the story of Jordan. I have nothing country of Jordan is ancient and not the product wrong. The same goes for the Palestinians. The by the Roman Empire 2000 years ago to punish the revolt, which took place in 135. So the name and the modern borders around this name were Why is an Arab born in the north of the Galilee few kilometers to the north he is considered to be European colonial empires, drew a line that later Colonialism is the best thing that ever happened colonialism invented the Palestinian people. got their name from the Roman Empire and their And it doesn't end there. Everybody knows but nobody talks about the huge numbers of Arabs and the Jews brought innovation and prosperity transJordan and Syria came to improve their life Muslims prefer to be refugees in Christian leader admitted that more than 50% of the The real numbers are much higher. So why is it part of a colonialist project, but an Arab who is considered a local, indigenous Palestinian? And was the Jews who were referred to as Palestinians, But what about the Palestinian refugees, the What do Israelis have to say about that? So United Nations said: let's divide the land into state where the Arabs live. And by the way, in all Arab countries or by the UN, they talk about an the Jews agreed and then the Arabs started a war by the Arabs after the UN partition plan was civilians. Luckily, we won. If we had lost, there As a result of the fighting, about half a million neighboring Arab countries. Some left because around them, some were evacuated by Arab military Yes, in some places Israelis deported Arabs. But side. In territories that the Arabs conquered, there are only three places where Jews fell quarter in Jerusalem, Nitzanim and Gush Ezion. controlled by the Arabs, whereas tens of thousands I want to zoom out for a second to focus on a very As a result of World War I and World War II, self-determined became the norm. The Zionist One of many. In the process of the millions of people were evacuated and deported. war. Poland and Ukraine had 1.4 million Turkey - Greece had 2 million deported. In the and Pakistan had 14 million people evacuated. amounts of violence and left millions dead. Do were forced to leave their houses in the 40s None. Zero. Do you know what the world A German. Do you know what a third-generation Arabs who left Palestine are still considered to and their great-grandsons. Which is why today than there were 70 years ago. The Arabs can call called Palestinians? Sure, why not? But let's for those in real need, for the real refugees, on holding on to this title of victimhood for 3 Now you might be saying: yeah, well, just that doesn't mean Israel isn't responsible for loves talking about the Palestinian refugees. articles and courses to them than to any other And let's just add a quick word about a group of about, and that's Jews in Arab countries. and hundreds were murdered by their Arab New York Times a day after the establishment of that the Jews in Arab countries would now be Morocco, Tunisia, Yemen and Iraq had to flee to violence against them. Israel built refugee camps call them refugees as when a Jew comes to Israel 800,000 Jews had to flee from Arab countries, Palestinian refugees. Jewish property countries is at least five times more than So to conclude this topic I will forced to evacuate, having to leave behind who started the war in Israel, and the Arabs I have used a lot of different facts and figures question my facts. I won't provide links to every and not a university paper but all the facts check. There's a website that I love: it's called many refugees did the partition of India cause, or or pogroms in Iraq against Jews... and get answers I can recommend the articles and books of Ben Dror And now let's talk about the occupation. But talking about, because most Arabs see the an occupation of Muslim land. The first sentence and will continue to exist until Islam obliterates They don't talk about a Palestinian state, And even the PLO, which stands for Palestine Three years before the 1967 occupation... So are against the existence of a Jewish state. I In 1967 the Arabs threatened to eliminate Israel that is in dispute is called the West Bank, but is very new and was only invented a few decades for thousands of years: Judea and Samaria. The live under the control of the Palestinian Now most Israelis are against while being for Israelis living in Judea What do you want us Israelis to do? Withdraw Jews lived in Hebron for hundreds of years until Arabs can live freely in Jerusalem and Israel should Judea and Samaria be free of Jews? The violence towards Jews. And if the Israeli army I lived in Germany for many years, and if I "Siedlungspolitik", I wouldn't have to ask "Siedlungspolitik" is the politics of Israeli of an obsession for the German media and I find it really arrogant and patronizing to that we are the obstacle to peace. Do you have or Yemen or Afghanistan or Libya too? that you're so certain that the Israeli Now I am a rational person. If you were to tell to peace, I would say: Let's see. The Arabs were 1948, before 1967 and after 1967, before the withdrew from the Gaza Strip. There is not a was a Jewish community in Gaza) but are we any Khartoum Resolution 1967, before the settlements, no recognition of Israel, no negotiations So what is the heart of the problem? If it is not problem, then what is it? To understand the real Israelis see a straight line connecting the war in Syria, to the Palestinians, If almost all of the 50+ Muslim countries aren't Muslim society. If there is no freedom of speech If being gay is illegal in Muslim countries, if family, if all minorities in Muslim I find it unbelievable that the persecution zero coverage in the media. More than 50,000 recent years in Nigeria alone - have you heard Israel evacuates Arabs who haven't paid any rent in Sheikh Jarrah, a mostly Arab neighborhood in ethnic cleansing. Now my English is not great but in Gaza, and in Judea and Samaria is growing, we should apply the term ethnic cleansing not to the Muslims are doing to the Christians? The communities. They are all disappearing. Or more If the Muslim world is drowning in a sea of about this society and I will not balance my There is an Australian stand-up comedian, Jim one of his shows he says something like: Let's and the crowd cheers, and he tells his joke. And there is complete silence. This moment truth louder than a thousand articles in Al as they can't control it, they can't apply the about the Jews because Jews in Israel, in the US, you for criticizing Jews or Judaism, but once Are there Muslims who want democracy and free thrown into jail? Yes, of course there are, but were also some great Germans in the 1930s and some anything good about Nazis or Communists. The Arab is a great example of how bad the situation country become more democratic. Other than that, North Africa, in the Sunni countries and in the poor countries, in the Arab countries and in the no gay rights (and by gay rights I mean the of the body), no freedom of speech, nothing. Peace will only come when when the Arab world recognises a Jewish state in is democratic, less violent and more tolerant of in general, the average Israeli opinion. I please give this video a like, subscribe, leave like my content and want to see more videos or two or becoming a member in Buymeacoffee.com. See you in the next video.