One project took me awake a week 30 grand in one month. I mean made over 10 grand. In. Hey guys we are back from You guys are new here. My name and our channel is mostly around entrepreneurship and work in three of those things. enjoy. So today we are talking bills and so what do you think is the stereotypical amount think an entrepreneur should even referring to early days or late entrepreneurs how much money do Like hundreds of thousands of A year. Okay you know what I mean probably a mom. Right. Right. Yeah. So do you think that's experience or no me. No. Not even close. Then it can be. Well actually It just might be later Right. So but I don't think that's definitely the first five years to 10 years experience of most entrepreneurs. for us. And for myself most of my money and I use that money to fund you do too. Yeah well that's one of the very right. And having kind of So a lot of people are like product or I have an idea that that's all in grief but at the same so you have to work somewhere you can literally freelance business or have a small money and the revenue to fund that exactly what we are both doing. And that strategy has worked Three years. Yeah. You didn't I mean into our fourth year now also opens up. Opportunities and insights. it open up a massive and open up an insight into a completely that you would not know anything about would need a product built for Nothing in all the software No. That's so true. That's one especially being in software is still so untapped of And so whether you are freelancing developer or you're not. You of these different companies people. need the problems they have to funnel of idea and opportunity opportunities and freelance idea of owning your own company. That's how it started for me my very college I built a website think I remember he asked me how much free and he was like No. He's like tell me how much you charge. twelve dollars an hour. He looked So I think get it up pay me like bucks for. Me. It was like five page Web site maybe a five And how long did it take you. It was an. Ice band. I tracked my time because and it was new to me. But I spent. A lot of was at least you know a week. A just making sure everything worked. just making sure that he got wanted and paid for but two for a week's worth of work. Even begin to. Entertain that I know. Was Hundred percent. Why. for him he actually invited me to interview at a company of. And the interview went really wanted to hire me and it Yeah. But in reality they python developer and I was Javascript. I could have It was just because I said yes that It opened up to even a bigger OK see. So that's a really important days of entrepreneurship. So a lot think they're going to get rich but building the foundation and creating structure right. So taking on dollar. Web site Web site credibility or opportunity you could making a hundred grand But it's about creating those connections you're building something for the long If you're only making literally under or under what you think you that's your you're really missing the business. It's about building that it can be a revenue And you have to start somewhere. for. I mean I've had over 10 grand. For several months. And. You know how massive I get projects yourself but I somewhere. That's the thing 30 grand in one month. 30 grand in one month And then we've done OK. So specific project. One project build and I made 18 But then 10 grand. I've done other projects nothing. Not a guess what I wanted. But that's also part of the process. So you're going to get curious about here for you. Yeah it's funny I wanted losing 40 K. Yeah. So there are the highs There are times when you're going to you're not. I think one really important about this which is. Because when you're in freelance agency the money can come in ten grand a month. In You make a thousand. So important thing. When you're to kind of embrace. Uncertainty. And also man not really sure what Living with Oh yeah living frugally the world. You know living through luckily both and both have and I have for that I'm super nice crappy. We use cars. Yeah they're place to live that is a crazy expensive. We both work Romo. See you guys most of our videos take our office. We don't pay for offices we don't We just don't know because again. Your dollar is your runway. So every dollar you can keep. Allows you to go months any money for yourself like you may money. Back into the business. that it's like you're using it for your bringing anything in yourself because into the product development and something to pay for something. different approach if you're paying product to sell a building product the early days. It's definitely when smart with your money and you there was a principle for me said They gather all summer for the winter winter b even though prepare for winter even catastrophe because you might want you might say I want to pull back do so I can invest in a a different type of service. And that's right away but I'm going to need while I'm building that to be something And that in reality guys that months if not every. Seriously time to live frugally crazy cars don't spend it on or just stupid stuff you don't because your money is your freedom business. And that's exactly really what we were as we were freedom in our personal lives to do And we kind of do that now. I yeah we want a whole new level. ourselves because we get to work. Next to each other not necessarily We used to do that. But. Different times. Yeah. Yeah yeah. Now we get to just hang out together. That's kind of the building the life that you want and is it that you are trying to you're aspiring to have and Actually brings you joy throughout Been together and I know some people to do that. But for us you know it's coffee and supporting this local business day. You know having. That sort of. Consistency dedication to the stuff that Yeah. That's our life. That's our with you know freelance and entrepreneurship really your first taste of owning your lot of you I've talked to you guys you guys want to start your own business start. Start with freelance and start the company. Josh is building now Yeah absolutely. And we decided it we would we would the opportunity and turn it into a project that we would then sell to were happy with that. They didn't And we were happy with it lot in helping us figure out the to build a solution that really And that's what birthed And then they brought me on and I got RFD to see if other people did did. It was really eye opening So you really never know When the opportunities present themselves opportunities. So I always Take stuff on like even pay the most because you really never going to go down the road. And if the thing is if you have nobody take opportunity that's Don't discard an opportunity because else is going to come eat when it may be a chicken tender right. But it still is worth it. Yeah it's still food it's still will the bank right. And so one is being in a freelance. Place as you in a position opportunity right. It puts It gives you freedom so that you don't to 5:00 that you can make an where you want to. The number that. Live frugally. So that if you only are making or nothing. That you've built can jump on the opportunity and money needed. So. Definitely position of opportunity. Don't be discouraged grand a month a 30 grand a month. That's not the point of the video. position living frugally opportunity when it comes. And being Yeah and also yeah sees an opportunity And. Building those relationships in their the road. So we hope you guys Dan please give it thumbs up. And of course subscribe to our channel good rest today.