A Mom Ate 5 Day Old Sushi For Dinner. This Is How Her Brain Shut Down. JC is a 34 year old woman, presenting to the and psychosis. Her husband, Jonathan, tells the admitting night before, bent over and curled up on the incontinence. She hadn't slept for at least the last 3 About 9 months ago, JC had some trouble. She got home late from work. She didn't have any food in her fridge and She found some sushi in her fridge, that she She wasn't sure if it would be ok, but she And she knew she wouldn't be able to sleep eat. Immediately after eating the 5 day old gas It slid down smoothly, and she didn't really 5 day old leftovers were always a little sketchy gas station. And the fish did taste a little sour, but it out, she thought. This 5 day old, gas station sushi was so uneventful, As the days passed, life was normal for JC. But about 5 months ago, and 4 months after She'd go to bed at 11pm, but would toss She'd close her eyes, but nothing would And she could watch as the sun would rise The day following her sleepless night would She would feel like her heart was beating She dreaded night time, knowing she could morning. It was around this time that JC would periodically It would come and go, and she could feel it Sometimes, it'd be followed by the loosest in her life. She told her husband that it felt like a fish JC wasn't sure if she was just too stressed, She tried melatonin. She tried essential oils and special teas. Some nights she'd sleep OK, but there was Nothing made any sense. JC started seeing little bugs crawl around She couldn't see them directly in her field sides of her eyes. She could see little creatures creep and crawl She was so exhausted from her insomnia that sleep depravation, but as the days passed, her skin. One night, while JC was wide awake, she couldn't And as she got up from bed, she felt her pants down her leg, becoming colder the further She realized it was urine, but she had no In the urgent care clinic, 7 months after to be healthy. Just looking at her, doctors couldn't find Her diet was OK, maybe a little aggressive regularly. Her blood tests all returned normal. The urgent care doctor didn't really want You know what, maybe you're stressed, and sleep, he said. Stress causes insomnia. It causes urinary incontinence. JC's young, she's healthy, she's not Medicines might cause additional side effects, was the best solution here. JC could maybe sleep one night a week still, And nobody ever mentioned anything about some because JC herself didn't even remember As she expected, the cognitive-behavioral One night, her husband saw her mumbling to She was shaking, and her pants were wet. As she passes out and starts having a seizure, to the emergency room where we are now. At examination, doctors weren't entirely But looking at her blood underneath a microscope, Macro meaning large. Cyto meaning cell but in this case, referring state. Abnormally large red blood cells. But not only were they large, she overall known as anemia. An meaning without and emia meaning presence Without enough red blood cells to carry oxygen was so exhausted over the last several months. But if those blood cells are bigger than normal, normal, so it should all even out, right? Doctors find that JC's red blood cells aren't matured. Some of her white blood cells were malformed. Something was wrong with their nucleus. And because the nucleus is where the DNA and a problem that would cause her blood cells Anemia by itself usually can't cause neurologic JC doesn't just have insomnia, she can't She has hallucinations and delusions. And an exam finds that she has sensory ataxia. A meaning without and taxia meaning order. Sensory meaning her awareness of the position This was combined with impaired reflexes, on JC's part. If her blood cells aren't properly formed to make DNA, then something similar could the anemia and neurodegeneration are happening And when cells aren't maturing properly, Doctors note that JC was slender. She had indents in her cheeks which could less than 70 percent of her calculated ideal Her husband confirms that over the last several 2 meals, down to just breakfast in the morning Even after she started dieting several months, In the step-down unit, doctors looked closer Most nutrient levels were normal, but her doctors exactly what they need to know. Vitamin B12 is a nutrient needed by humans. Our bodies don't make it so, we need to And its impact in the body is indirect. DNA is made inside the cells, so that genetic Vitamin B12 is important in creating (Adenine So when there isn't enough of B12, proper Red blood cells in the body live for 120 days are made. Everyday when you have a stomach movement, blood cell breakdown. And in JC's case, if the proper DNA isn't form properly, explaining her macrocytosis. In the mitochondria, powerhouse of the cell, cells use for energy. If B12 isn't present, energy production start building up. The nerves need lots of energy to function, Build up of these different chemicals start helps transmit electrical signals all throughout As these chemicals accumulate and build up the right chemicals, they start eating away (subacute combined degeneration). She can't sleep because of the nerve damage. She's delusional, psychotic, and hallucinating, Doctors give JC vitamin B12 injections, to As the days go by, JC starts to recover and She's able to sleep well again, for the Doctors recommend she take supplemental Vitamin diet, as they discharge her from the hospital. Over the next several weeks, things seem to She's eating more, and her quality of sleep Two months later, she had her first sleepless She started taking more and more vitamin B12 But then the bugs started crawling underneath And she started hallucinating, again, all vitamin gummies that the doctors had told She starts to believe that the vitamins weren't again. And finally as she has another seizure, she's At examination this time, doctors find macrocytosis They check her blood, and even though she's those gummies, her vitamin B12 levels were If she's eating more now than before, and are her b12 levels be low? She's eating it, so that's not the problem. So maybe she's not absorbing it. It doesn't look like she has any problems been damaged, then could there be something all of her vitamin B12? At this thought, doctors took a look in JC's In it, they found eggs measuring about 40 It wasn't just a couple eggs, there were This was in addition to segments that probably of tapeworm. Doctors asked JC if she had eaten some grains Sometimes, grains can be contaminated with Actually, it's almost impossible to have chance you've eaten some "objectionable birds." But some tapeworm parasites can live in infected grains. This could be what infected JC, but she was She didn't eat carbs often. And as doctors asked her this, she remembered 9 months ago. The stomach cramps. The loose stools that followed them. The feeling of a fish flapping around in her All of this pointing to a giant tapeworm that JC, that came from some contaminated fish Doctors identify the tape worm as Diphyllobothrium infect humans, that can grow up to 30 feet This species, has a unique affinity for vitamin human host for the nutrient. Because JC had already been at risk of having this only made her situation worse, when a prevent her from getting any vitamin B12. Because the tapeworm was in her small intestines suck out all the B12 from food she ate, so it looks like she started to get better probably blood, and not through the gut, where the the gummy vitamins she ate afterwards. As the B12 stores in her liver started to low because of how she ate before the 5 day because wrong chemicals were made in the cells, Those wrong chemicals built up, and slowly It started with insomnia, then she couldn't Then she saw bugs crawling on the walls, before before her psychosis, sensory ataxia, and Medicine was given to remove the parasite. Even if the tape worm can lay over 1 million gut, all it takes is a single dose of anti-parasitic The medicine forces calcium into the worm, it. With the tape worm's defenses down, the it as the worm slips out of the intestines, And as JC started her full recovery, she was again. Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. Watch out for those gas station sushi leftovers. And Be Well.