My name is David McMillan. I've smuggled over $17 million worth of heroin internationally. And this is how crime works. The heroin world is very Involves hundreds of thousands of people, mostly down at a very low level. And you're passing by heroin traffickers without even thinking about it. I was a smuggler for over 35 years. Been arrested around about 12 times. All of my knowledge is The three main producers have become Mexico, mostly to serve the market in the United States. In South Asia, it's Vietnam and Laos, the remnants of the old Golden Triangle. And, of course, Afghanistan, which tops all of them in sheer volume. And that comes from different provinces which over the years have and sometimes interference. The Taliban actually stopped almost all of the heroin production. But they changed their mind One of my first trips to When finding and making a it's best not relied upon Because the person who's introduced you, he could be an agent for the DEA. So it's better to go from the ground up. And that might mean going meeting the farmers. I've traveled out into the and lived with the farmers for a few days, perhaps a week. Got involved in something Come to know something about their lives. And they make their own judgments. People in the village because I wasn't in a hurry. You don't need an awful lot of opium to do quite well if you're a farmer. They get at least $50 a kilo. Now, for a farmer, that's quite good. The opium poppy has a and that's about the size of a golf ball. The farmers, when it's mature, scrape the sides of it, and overnight, little beads of white sap are produced. That's scraped off to form Now, that is the opium base. That contains a very, very 15%, 20% sometimes. Beyond the farmers, every part of the heroin cultivation, processing, and handling None of the people connected are really connected in any group way that you might expect with crime. They are simple people in the countryside. You would buy perhaps, say, We'll call them chemists, but they're really just, who would take that and do the processing. Now, don't imagine some when it comes to that. You'll see a couple of old tin pots, five or six plastic buckets, some cloth for filtering, Oh, and maybe an old The opium base is washed out to extract that morphine, dried out into kind of a black gunk, and then it is cooked It smells like a really The rest is cleanup, because it first comes out There are really only two The brown is the half-processed and only half-as-strong version. The white has been purified, cleaned. The brown is smoked, whereas the white has traditionally been injected or snorted. But there's been almost no white heroin sold around Europe for years. And people who inject have A dangerous thing to do, and a corrosive thing to do on The police agencies have their own way of determining the purity of heroin. There really is no better and I can tell within the texture, and the taste of heroin where it came from and very I would first have to get it's a landlocked country -- and shipped through to Pakistan. That had its own complications because any kind of commerce there, whether it's smuggling or not, involves a certain amount of lubrication of the border area. Bribery. Everything has a price, whether it's refrigerators The smuggling of heroin is limited by the fact that it into looking like something else. It can be packed flat into In fact, books were often used. The hardback covers, front and back. I suppose I'd have to smuggling out of Thailand as The quality was right. It was the big bags that where they're in plastic, with the brand name of the local warlord or chieftain who guarantees safe passage. I would press it down and conceal it within the wooden surrounds or a piece of electrical equipment in your in-hold baggage without I would make it pressed within the sides of the wood and veneered around the outside. Almost all of the heroin very rarely goes above half-kilo slabs that get concealed in or even made into the I used to carry it around But at least I knew if I did it myself, I'd be in control of my own destiny. But I relented. I found couriers. Couriers were chosen by their look -- that had to pass the first test -- their stability and reliability, and also their ability to And that was very important. I had one guy that was a kind of recruiter and another one in London. My recruiter in London had been kicked out of Southeast Asia. Ended that the government used who'd been kicked out of other countries. It was a gold mine of couriers. Somebody who's not relaxed and operating out of their own volition makes a very poor courier. I don't think people always have completely selfish motives. People who have families to support sometimes consider it. Poverty might make that final little push. To pass through airport security, it was important to know the I would spend quite a bit of time traveling through those airports, knowing what kind of what the staff were trained to do, whether shoes had to come off or not, how sensitive the metal detectors were. As years went on, customs teams would be trained particularly well in detecting certain kinds of things. They have some for cigarettes. They would move those teams around at different times of the day. It was important to know I would use multiple passports in ensuring the safety of the couriers, so that when they left a source country, they would arrive in Europe and be able to take out of which showed only travel in Europe. And they would have tickets to match. I got birth certificates for people who had died either in infancy or very young, pre-traveling age and then built up the identity around that and get them legitimately issued. Arriving passengers were told to go to some arranged point, perhaps a hotel in town or a restaurant. I would watch them to see because it's always possible Then they would be paid off immediately, and the bags would be taken away. Then it would be put I like to think of it sometimes as looking at one of those phone apps where it shows in the world that are going on. You see thousands of them. And in a way, you can say that every one of those little maybe four or five people on board who are carrying some amount of heroin. During my smuggling criminal career, I've been arrested around about 12 times, and it resulted in four convictions. The first one, that was resulted in a 10-year sentence. I'd been under an investigation and I was running couriers at the time. My own lawyer had told but I stuck around. &quot;No, I can deal with that. They'll never catch me with anything.&quot; I was sentenced to 15 years, of which I would ultimately serve 10. There's no lawyer in the trial. Anything can go. It seems everything's fair. I would say this: one of the reasons that I think the deterrent the super-harsh treatment. My wife at the time, Clelia, was arrested; my business partner's and they were put in the women's prison. They put an informer in with the girls in the women's prison to try and get some Unfortunately, little That's what she was in for. She set fire to the prison, and five women were killed, including Clelia and Mary. That was a ... oh, I don't have to say, I felt guilty, and so I should. The police had moved into Every possession I had was After that, next came my time in Thailand, where I was arrested on a drug case and escaped from there. That took two years' doing I found myself arrested in Pakistan, and that took almost two years, again, to get a not-guilty plea. From there, I found myself and then, lastly, a In my early 50s, around 2004, I walked away from the last deal. I'd been giving bits of advice but even that was too close for comfort. I'd run out of time. I was getting simply too old. The price for this is jail time, and I'd promised family And also, based on that the reward was never enough. When it comes to the larger amounts, then it's all by shipping. I've known people to take and pack them into oil drums or even in the pallets of So, a technique would through an existing and reputable firm that had agents all around the world. Table lamps or even cab doors or cabinets, so that when it arrives back in the West that's being cleared as Sometimes, customs will intercept quite large shipments. People have asked me, &quot;Would this make a dent in the market?&quot; The supplies are built up at least three months in advance. So. Besides which, the intercepted cargo never amounts to the So those seizures, though a 10 lost here or even 5,000 kilos there won't substantially make any difference. The shipment routes for illegal and legal heroin never overlap. The approach is different, and the mechanism's entirely different. After a shipment comes bagged up into whatever whether it's in bulk in kilos or smaller amounts, ounces. It gets taken out to customers. Within a month, all would be gone. In the early days, it was so profitable. A kilo of heroin back in 1980, just personally, I could get back a And this was in Australia, got inflated prices there. Expected purity was only at about 15%. So if I took it down to 18%, it would still be considered good. I used only dextrose to do this. But that still meant 1 kilo became 4. In the beginning, even put because there were a couple which were notorious for it. Then come back to base and reload, as it were. There's been some changes The retail price of heroin It's now at about its most base level. Purity's not great, but price-wise, I can't imagine any factors that would make it any cheaper or Is it more available? It is, but there is no market The popularity of heroin goes in waves of different fads and fashions. There's a solid core of and they don't change much. Street-level heroin is, It would be dangerous if it were. It's usually at about 15% to 20%, and that's considered strong. The cutting agents for brown heroin, usually mannitol. It's In recent years, heroin's been cut with It's a synthetic opioid, but it's a very dangerous drug. It's at least as strong as even heroin. So how would anybody measure it out? A tiny amount of fentanyl is often mixed with heroin to keep the strength up, but that can quite often be misjudged and end up with fatalities. But when there's a shortage or when somebody's simply greedy, the retailer can cut it again. And this can be potentially dangerous because it will seem weaker, and people will adjust to using weaker and they'll use more, so that when they get what it'll be quite a bit stronger, and there's a potential for overdose. But it has to be kept in mind, very few people die directly It's usually when mixed with alcohol or sleeping pills. It almost never happens that finishes somebody off There were political elements to opium and heroin manufacturing and distribution. Until 1911, heroin and from your local pharmacy or druggist, over the counter, just by asking for it. In fact, heroin was promoted Little heroin pills were But after 1911, the Harrison Act was passed which turned attention to addictive drugs. When the Vietnam War took hold, heroin became something during their downtime. They took those habits home with them. So we have a legacy from the Vietnam War. It's called a war on drugs, A war suggests that one side Drug traffickers and smugglers know that they won't win every they don't have to win to be successful. They've just got to keep out But still a high price to pay. From the authority's point of view, there would never be a situation where they could walk out and say, &quot;Right, we've done our job. How can that possibly happen when the nature of business and it replaces the fallen soldiers? The authorities could catch more smugglers by acting on their intelligence but they're kept by the amount of money, the resources they're given. In 40 years, I've only been taught one thing, that the only solution Legalization would require, of course, some control measures so that somebody wouldn't be going into a shop and without any sensible reason On the other hand, to take the control has to be very light. And, of course, spend some for people who can't manage their drugs. Different countries offer different but generally all poor and also not very effective In the United Kingdom, Somebody reporting or presenting has to take a place on the list, and to get a substitute, has to wait several weeks. That will force them back into that world. It might reduce the harm. It'll save them some money because they've got a fallback position of, say, taking methadone There are programs for harm reduction that are good, welcome, such as needle-exchange programs or offer safe places to take drugs. Of course, that doesn't but any of that assistance There's very little that can be done, because you are hoping to make a consistent, standard product that won't risk overdoses, yet won't be so rubbishy that people will move But I don't see any way of doing that other than legalization. Also, in a world of legal drugs, there'd be fewer prison inmates on minor or any drug charges at all. And that would have the effect of allowing more police time to be and crimes that affect To help source countries, we would have to do more than which, so far, hasn't worked. It's not much better than which has left a lot of farmers destitute. I was 18 years old when I first became involved in the drug trade and not much older when I began smuggling. I can never say in any way that I've ever been a victim of anything. I've walked headfirst. Even as a teenager, I was selling bits of hash at school, whatever, from an early age. So when I met some safe crackers and they were retired from that, they were already a little bit in the local drug-distribution network with some local marijuana. But they didn't know And it involved travel. and it seemed good for me. And I went out and did it on purpose. Something we don't is that a regular human And you haven't got so many years. Only looking back on the drug trade, from an how plain and clear it is that it is not just the danger, but it is the pointlessness and the futility of the undertaking. Since I've been out of the smuggling game, these days, I put up CCTV cameras, which involves a certain amount of trust. I've also written a couple of books, one that seemed to take years because it was involving in Afghanistan and Pakistan and the troubles there and That took about 10 years to write. That's &quot;Unforgiving Destiny.&quot; Of course, I regret kind of everything about the life I walked into. People ask me why I didn't after my first major arrest. And the answer is that I where I wasn't running around underground.