-Give that to me, it's too heavy. We're coming, we're coming! We are very proud to fight this war -How old are you? Don't ask. I am twenty years old. -Twenty years old? Yesterday, the ISIS jihadists a town of 310,000 inhabitants about fifty kilometers At this time, there is a reign of terror in the Kurdish villages ISIS continues its atrocities The UN has called it a human tragedy. Two hundred people were forced Yesterday, killed 90 villagers here in this Kurdish area It is a bloodbath. These ISIS soldiers This helicopter is the last connection A precarious lifeline. For the past seven days, poor weather conditions Seven days without any supplies. It's December 2014. Winter is just around the corner, and the refugees Sinjar is a mountain Kurdish soldiers opened up to allow the Yezedis to escape. At the end of September, and the Kurdish soldiers under attack Nearly 1,500 families All around the villages in Wels, Yezedi refugee tents This morning, the Yezedis are praying. They pray facing the sun. The Yezedis practice They worship one God and many angels. For the ISIS militants, and they must either convert or die. Leading the prayers this morning You can see for yourselves There is nothing. We can't go anywhere. The whole mountain is surrounded. Life is really tough here. We have nothing here, You can see the poverty for yourselves. We leave it in God's hands. Every house and every village who haven't been able to escape They've been terrified by the massacres that have been carried out At the beginning of the genocide, People died of thirst and hunger. They hunted us down and killed us. Since then, on the way here, We had to bury them along the roadside. Even animals They've killed us in our thousands. It was Muslims who did this, They were our neighbors. They arrested everyone. They killed the men and the elderly They took the women and children. They kidnapped the women and children. I beg you, America, You have to help us ISIS has invaded all The nearest ones The enemy is just down the road. Are you going to shoot them No, son. The machine gun is their weapon, not ours. We are going to make ISIS leave here, School? School... Am I going to kill at school? -What? No, of course not. You go to school to learn, You are going to become doctors, Yes. You'll be able to afford nice things. That will be better, won't it? Yes, that's good. They say they are going to kill at school. What? School is a happy place. We are going to send you to school In the last two months, a new battalion has been set up the Sinjar Resistance movement. It's comprised solely of Yezedis. Commander Dilsher, sitting in the middle, ISIS has instilled fear in the world including children, It is not by terrorizing civilians This propaganda has no effect on us. We are training and getting ready It is the first time in Yezedi history that they have to take their destiny Which is why it is so important In this way, The second thing Yezedi girls have had to take up arms and go and fight in order to defend themselves. For Shengal, it's a first. We are ready to sacrifice ourselves, just as the Yezedi people Commander Dilsher oversees recruitment While some people joined up spontaneously others are still unsure, and it's up to Dilsher We've got 150 to 200 people. Those are from the YPG number 150, With that, we cannot fight on all fronts. It's not enough! Whoever rises up, we will help. Whoever wants to resist, -It doesn't matter who they are! In the name of the people... When you feel ready, This is what this organization Tomorrow, myself, Ibrahim, into the streets We will ask them and we will take down the names I will keep hold of the numbers, and when you tell me the time is right, I'll call them on behalf of the army to get them to come. You came here, and now you want to leave when it's time for a meal? Does that mean That's not how we do things. It's not just me saying it, That's not how we saw it. In our culture, if you get up to leave it's seen as rude. Well, in that case, We'll stay. These young Yezedis are trained to fight Both men and women Like Darson. She's 22 years old. Before she joined this unit, she worked as a hairdresser Like everyone else, we had to escape and seek refuge in the mountains. Five of my sisters and two of my brothers ISIS is really scared of women. The world must know the strength to know that they will face their enemies so that women Behold YBS soldiers. Here at the gates of Sinoune. Here we shall attack ISIS. We will kill them all, God willing. Bildan is 24 years old. He left the Iraqi Army to join this unit. He now leads a group of Yezedi fighters. We have received some news, a phone call from our men We are going to go together Victory is the only option! After a two-month siege, the Kurdish soldiers are struggling to break the ISIS militants hold Two rows of Kurdish soldiers, managed to penetrate the mountain. The objective is to take back Sinjar city, It's now practically a ghost town. Just last summer, If the Kurds take back Sinjar City, the stronghold Among the reinforcements, the Peshmerga, Turkish Kurds, as well as Kurds from Syria, the YPG. They are all united Several hundred Islamic soldiers For the moment, In order to capture the town, the soldiers must first It's a strategic point The Kurds are going They can now benefit Be careful, it's not free! No worries, we are going over there, You take the Milan There's nothing left to do Should we go left through the houses? Don't go between the houses. Go right this time. Are you down there? We're in the old houses. -Take another sniper too. The Milans are French-German They're part of the arsenal against the Islamic State The other militias Do you see that red house over there? Those are ISIS militant positions. At the top of the hill, Between there For the Kurds, this hill is crucial. Whoever controls it, controls the town. Their goal is to push the ISIS fighters They've arrived. There's smoke over there. -How are things going? -Is it burning a lot? -Is it the IS headquarters? -Why is it on fire? Good job, guys! Whether or not scare the hell out of them. Yes, make them jump! That was an ISIS position. Soran seized their car, and there are lots of casualties Respect, comrade! Ten ISIS fighters are dead, Twenty-three comrades It went well. The shots from on top of the hill The Kurds respond quickly. We've taken prisoners. This is one of the ISIS fighters. He's a traitor! Because of his collaboration, lots of Yezedi families, including women and children, We have also freed some Yezedi families Among them, there are children. Some are 12 years old. One is only three weeks old. -Is that a boy or a girl? Have you fed him? Yes, a bit of sugar. He's hungry. This evening, the Kurdish soldiers May Allah bless you. We are the group at the front line. Good news: Whoever kills someone In your dreams! One Peshmerga has fallen, a martyr. Apart from that, no one else. We are the group from Khachour, They say they are a group from Khanasor. -They know that we listen to them. No, they're not in groups. Yes, there are two groups. They're saying god knows what. They have no morale left. They are at the bottom of the hole. The following day, at the mountain summit, One unit of the YPG, the Syrian PKK, installed themselves There is a foreigner among them. Good morning, Sinjar. He is American. The city's smoking, so it looks Hopefully they had no sleep, hopefully we'll not let them have sleep It's always a morale booster Over there, the planes... Air raids. -Smoke... -Smoke... -We are going to fight. I want to go there soon, How's it going? Fine, thanks, and how are you? Fine, thanks. Jordan Mattson is 28 years old. He's from Wisconsin. This former carpenter's apprentice He's the first foreign volunteer He got involved via Facebook. One of the big deciders to fight against Da'esh Sinjar or Shingal. This place was surrounded by Da'esh. When they came to this region, because they didn't follow and they sold a majority During this time, the major powers in the world They said it was an Iraqi problem, These are thousands of human lives that were sacrificed for nothing if the powers that be or sooner on before Da'esh became This man saved all of our lives We fought for six hours, and he held the roof of a BKC. He saved our lives. If he hadn't stayed on that roof, we would be dead. Though he was wounded twice, on enemies when they fired eight and a BKC fire all night. I'm proud he saved my life. My boy. Are you from America? -Huh? -Huh? Huh... Were there two of you? Two... huh... With my comrade Kamal. Which comrade? There's... Let's see... One, two, three, four, -There are twelve foreigners. -Ten. There are twelve foreigners Welcome! One. Yes, Israel. Israel. Jordan is a dyed-in-the-wool conservative. Fighting for a Marxist organization pose any problem for him. The PKK has been at war with Turkey In Europe and the United States, One of the only groups that will stand up I think they're champions of that cause. They simply want more rights That's simply what sums it up. They have a different political ideology It's not based on religion. It's just that they'd like they want more rights because they've been looked I do not look at them How are you doing? What are you doing now? -What are you doing now? -I almost got you! This, right here. To Sinjar! Go on, raise your glass. I want to go down to Sinjar. No, we're not going to Sinjar. Why do you want to go there? I just want to free Sinjar, that's all. After we finish, we shoot. I want... I shot... As a shot. Fighting, you like that a lot, don't you? I want to go to Sinjar. -I want to go to Sinjar. Okay. -I still want to go to Sinjar. Jordan is anxious to get into battle. For two days now, They are far from the front. The bombings carried out have been going on for barely two days. However, in the end, Jordan's unit won't fight in Sinjar city. They've been called to Syria, -What are you taking as a weapon? Yes, I'll keep it. The Kurds have managed They take a position The front line stabilizes. The progression goes from house to house, neighborhood by neighborhood, a process slowed by the snipers. Chahin, we are counting on you for this. Okay, don't worry. It is no laughing matter, comrade, -Do you know where he is? Yes, I know, there's a tree opposite. I can't wait to see the bastard. Go, over there! Plaster is torn from the walls Several projectiles fly across the room. An ambulance, we need an ambulance! A man is wounded. He is injured! He's injured! His name's Jamil. Today was his first day at the front. It's nothing, it's nothing. Is it out? Don't worry, it's out... Settle down. Friends, come on! Friends, come on! The ambulance is coming. Give me that! Jamil is a Christian. Lord Jesus! We have to tell Roudi urgently. They need to send two people. Press it firmly. Hold it tight. Squeeze hard! It's nothing, it's nothing. You'll be okay. Roudi? Roudi? Roudi? We should lie him down. He's really not far... He's nearby. I'm going to get you, Aim well! Jamil... Jamil, don't go to sleep, okay? He mustn't fall asleep. Wake up! Comrade, Get ready, two comrades and two Sing in your head. Comrade, I'm going to try A car will take him The military hospital Jamal's injury is considered too serious -Is the injured man in the car? The following day, Jamil will be evacuated Among Kurdish soldiers, Fighting side by side like this who often come from a very traditional Recruitment also includes When we teach them we emphasize how much they have suffered. The exploitation of women by men that doesn't make sense. It stops us from evolving. Everything in our society A woman knows her role and her place There are radical feminist groups. What is that? They're groups that favor only women. Men must be crushed. This type of movement As you can see, feminists are divided. They don't all think the same way. The essence of the PKK's policy to evolve in one single movement At the front, The female soldier who took care of Jamil Despite their religious today the Kurds form a united front Hundreds of Yezedi girls It's not hundreds, it's thousands. But ISIS denies it. They say they are not with them. Any man, if he is a true patriot, must take up arms and fight against them I am a Muslim, They want to invade Kurdish territory our society, and our language. Now, they are attacking our tombs I tell you, if Sinjar is saved, the rain will wash our honor clean. After the rain, and everything will change. The honor and pride of a man daughter, or sister. The honor and pride of a man We will take this street here and meet at the intersection. We will also put Milan As soon as one comes out, we shoot. For you guys, stay where you are If they fall, Are you taking the cameraman with you? After taking control the soldiers must now take over The day before yesterday, they succeeded from the ISIS fighters. It's an ISIS terrorist! Go, quietly. ISIS. Come on! Go inside. Come on! Just like every other mission, Baradun is one of the first on the ground. Go, go, go... Let's go, let's go, let's go... Don't stay bunched together, Long live Kurdistan! Long live our leader, Apo! Long live our leader, Apo! -Long live our leader, Apo! Long live the Sinjar resistance! Some hours earlier, There is an ISIS casualty. That's one of the sons of bitches Comrades, scan the areas. Look everywhere. Search high and low. It's a civilian. Sniper. We're moving! Stay, you stay. Run, run, run! Run! You can see the body Look! When the Kurdish forces started to attack, They must have killed them Look at his feet, he's been tortured! We are going to make sure then come back with our comrades. For these poor martyrs we will take them with us Two of you should block the road. Be at the ready. When the armoured vehicle arrives, we will take up positions on this roof No one can take us from the back? You're able to see everything. The road to the main souk Behind our buildings? Heads down! Heads down! Ciger, on the building. Another up there. And the street where ISIS passes. With the neighborhood the Kurdish soldiers There are five enemy fighters in the souk... the souk at the town gate. Only five, that isn't many. Their car has just arrived. We can use the machine gun -Is there a back entrance? We're going to look for it! Go, go, go, go! Die! The battle for the souk begins. Those are our guys who are shooting. It's your destiny, ISIS! They're not going to take over the world. God forbid. I made them tremble just with my voice. Screw them! Shall I say something to them? Shall I call out to them? ISIS! This is your destiny, you dogs! Their car's leaving, their car's leaving! Duck, duck! Duck! Who cares about my head? I took his father's honor The car has gone. It's gone, it's fucked... Why didn't we bring the rocket launcher? It wouldn't have changed anything. -Want to smoke? -Don't worry, I'll give you one. Thanks anyway. I'm going to tell you something, I've seen a group of militants down there. I saw through the binoculars. Down there. There were 13 cars, You know, the number doesn't matter. Say what you want, but ISIS is looking for easy places They are hiding out down there. They don't really want a fight, do they? Exactly! If we block all access routes, This evening, Anything else is out of the question. They don't know the guerilla method. They're too scared of the night. At night, they carry out speed attacks It's like a regular army. They organize commando attacks, They're not experienced fighting at night. We are waiting for backup. We are not scared of dying, or even of the snipers. The battle for Sinjar City will continue. After a month of hard fighting, the Kurds have managed to push back ISIS, thanks to dozens of men and women for their land and for their freedom. Baradun was 24 years old in the streets of Sinjar. He died on the 23rd of January, 2015.