Dune is a movie with giant sandworms, mysterious witches, and Timothee There's spaceships and spice and Zendaya with blue Dune's characters have to watch YouTube videos to The movie is based on a book that was written many attempts to adapt this book to movies Dune has been called "unfilmable" because the book of internal monologue and thoughts instead of heaps of secret plans and hidden motivations. Its words for its languages, cultures and religions. politics, and philosophy. And the Dune sequel The new movie is a.. pretty close adaptation of leaves out a lot of important plotlines and movie - what's the real story of Dune? This and for the first half of the first book. It has the sequel books, but it does mention some small So Dune is set thousands of years in the future. And they're ruled by the Emperor, Shaddam the but we don't see Shaddam himself. Beneath Atreides and House Harkonnen - powerful political The Houses meet in a congress called the of the Emperor. The other big political power is interstellar spaceflight. Guild navigators use future - which is the only way to guide spaceships Guild spaceships, called Heighliners, look like reach a distant planet - you can see another world Dune books describe this as folding space. hinted that Guild navigators have "mutated" and hates the Guild for being creepy extortionate So for thousands of years, the universe has Houses and Guild. They're bound together banning the use of nuclear weapons. But a cheeky limits. Politics in Dune is a deadly game. Every and tests their food for poison. The feudal class system - slavery, oppression, and unequal universe. The Houses have shares in the universe. It's kinda like the Dutch East money, and all the Houses fight for a slice. In can "change the ownership of an entire planet". there are giant spaceships and laser guns, but Cause thousands of years in the past, but then some people used those machines to take So then there was a religious crusade called the and banned them forever. In the Orange Catholic in the likeness of a man's mind". The idea is what makes us human. Letting machines think for us the machines were destroyed. Ever since, humans founded schools to train the human mind and body called Mentats - "Human computers" who can think probabilities, and perceive peoples' motives. The to House Atreides. In the books, Mentats take a the drug stains their lips red. In the new movie, Like the Mentats, the Navigators of the calculate the mathematics of spaceflight. Bene Gesserit, an ancient mystical order of Their practice is influenced by Zen Buddhism, inner balance. Bene Gesserit can precisely control biochemistry and their reproductive systems. they can read peoples' feelings through their with their Voice, they can fight in the weirding Gesserit are named after the Jesuits, a real-world Gesserit do missionary work in distant places. And work with the Emperor and Houses, and they say their own plans - for centuries, these witches So Dune is about a galactic empire with that rejects technology, and instead focusses on Frank Herbert was fascinated with thinking, our consciousness to better see the universe Characters in Dune are constantly getting high, like college undergrads. So Dune is basically And the most important drug is spice. Cause spice visions of the future - spice also makes people Many people are addicted to spice, and if they psychic, mind-expanding, life-extending, cinnamon, so naturally spice is the most valuable from one place - the desert planet Arrakis, also life cycle makes spice. Humans harvest the spice rich. The conflicts for resources in to conflicts for oil in the Middle East. by the brutal House Harkonnen, led by the Baron Giedi Prime - "the oil-soaked, blood-soaked this planet as being totally industrialised - smog blackens the skies. The Harkonnens exploit slaves, and gladiator slaves to kill for sport. their endless appetites for power and pleasure The Baron Vladimir is a ruthless political for food and sex. He's too fat to support his which lets him levitate. To rule Arrakis, the "the Beast" for his brutality. Rabban is not known as "A muscle-minded tank-brain". The a "Mentat-Assassin" who loves torture and poison. habit forces him to stay loyal to the Baron. The In the movie, the Harkonnens have a freaky in the books, but according to interviews it's this was a human who was made into a monster. In who do weird biology experiments, so maybe this spider is Yueh's captive wife Wanna, made horrifying speculation and is not in the books. on Arrakis made them rich. But at the start of the and he gives control of the planet to House a reputation for honour and integrity. They return. The Atreides are descended from And they rule the planet Caladan - a world The Atreides aren't very rich, but Leto is popular And the Emperor hates that - he sees Leto's them Arrakis, that seems like a good thing for Emperor and the Harkonnens secretly plan to Sardaukar are the Emperor's elite soldiers. they're said to be the deadliest soldiers in the a prison planet for the worst criminals in only the strongest survive - and it's this harsh The Emperor doesn't want the other houses so in the book, his Sardaukar are He and the Harkonnens want the The story begins with Paul Atreides - son of fifteen years old in the book, and as the heir to He has no friends his own age because of the in politics, and in combat, and in the book logical mind like Thufir. Jessica trains Paul in and body, his perception and memory, and to It might seem unrealistic to control someone said we do it "all the time" - like, it's or happy with a compliment. And with subtle and powerful ways - like politicians your audience, use the right words and So Paul is young, but he's a politician and a Leto visits the grave of his father, the Old as a matador. Until he was killed by a bull in the bull, with the Old Duke's blood still preserved danger, putting yourself at risk. Just like Leto Leto knows that the Emperor and the Harkonnens because he believes he can win. Leto plans to alliance with the Fremen, the local desert people. great soldiers specifically because they live in Sardaukar are powerful because of the harshness interested in how environments affect people, So Leto bets everything on this plan to make the movie, Paul says he doesn't want to exploit But in the book, the Atreides don't care about the The Atreides may seem like heroic good guys, the book they use immoral manipulative their morality. In the movie, Chani In the movie, Paul complains that he doesn't get whether he even wants to be a duke and to lead the Paul no matter what. It's a touching moment But in the book, we don't see this kind of and serious, book-Paul does not question his duty ancient dynasty in a deadly planetary conflict, humanises the Atreides, and makes them feel more having breakfast, practicing mind control. Helen Mohiam. Gaius is a Reverend Mother, a expanded her mind using drugs. Reverend Mothers and of other Reverend Mothers. Gaius was Jessica's she's the personal Truthsayer of the Emperor lies. So Gaius is a powerful, important person and to Jessica and to the Bene Gesserit. a box that causes terrible pain - but if he moves the gom jabbar. So this is a test of self-control. instinctively move away from the pain and will control your body and mind, master your fear and this ability to act consciously, and choose, to separates humans from animals. They give this test conscious humans gain the power of the Bene Before the test, we see the Atreides with the bull, and Leto with Arrakis, When Jessica was trained as a Bene Gesserit, Paul is feeling and is terrified he might die. Fear - "Fear is the mind-killer", but the The Bene Gesserit train to calm their emotions helps Paul pass this test. Paul is "human", and lives. In the movie, he also has fiery Then we learn about the Bene Gesserits' the Bene Gesserit have manipulated the genetic They breed certain people with other people, Even the Emperor has a Bene Gesserit They select and combine certain genes, trying to This chosen one will be able see into the Cause Reverend Mothers like Gaius can only The Kwisatz Haderach will access all memories. mind will guide humanity. The name Kwisatz meaning to "shorten the way" between two places. One. But Jessica has messed with their Jessica to have a daughter, not a son. That their child would've been the Kwisatz Haderach. chose to have a son, Paul, instead, because Leto She chose her family over her duty to the be the Kwisatz Haderach instead, but Gaius is So Paul might be the Chosen One, and he's.. that he's the product of the Bene Gesserit's human In the book he feels an "offense" against his thinks she's a "fatuous old witch" full of the hero's magical mentors are good and wise Gaius is a creepy witch in a black robe who works The Bene Gesserit are a shadowy political cult. one seems sinister and dark. In the book, Paul purpose" that he doesn't understand. So what Dune is about questioning the whole idea of and plans. It's about the danger of anything One of Paul's teachers is Gurney Halleck. the best in the universe. He's also a musician instrument called a baliset. They did film a In the book, Gurney often sings, and quotes poetry words and music help the Atreides win allies and lump of a man". He's got a big red scar across his Cause in the book, Gurney was once a slave Gurney's family, and gave him his scar - the movie that the Harkonnens are so brutal often described as animals or beasts ruled the idea of humans with conscious self-control. Shields are force fields that can stop any through. Guns and explosives are useless in Dune fight with swords and knives instead. out-manoeuvre, and distract your opponent So like everything in Dune, even the sword fights Paul says that he's not in the mood for fighting, no matter how you feel. So just like self-control. To survive the deadly blade, and mind. In the book, Gurney fights Paul so might be really be trying to kill him. Gurney is One of Paul's other teachers is Duncan Idaho, who of the Ginaz", a "military genius", he's super Duncan is a close friend to Paul, almost like about the dreams he's been having of the future on Arrakis. These prescient visions are part of In the movie, Duncan tells Paul not to focus too happens when we're awake". Cause Dune is about the us not to get too sucked in to our own minds, our a problem to solve, but a reality to experience" life, come from living in the present. Paul walks a Caladan beach. Caladan is a planet of Arrakis. Caladan is beautiful, plentiful, a of Caladan made the Atreides go soft. Life says that people need adversity and hard times And Arrakis is the ultimate challenge. It's a goes "into the fire". Will Arrakis forge him The Atreides arrive on Arrakis, When the people of Arrakis see Paul and which means "the Voice from the Outer World". there will come a leader, the child of a Bene Paul and Jessica seem to fit this prophecy. made up by the Bene Gesserit. The Bene Gesserit Protectiva - for thousands of years, they have superstitions" all over the universe. Particular so if a Bene Gesserit is ever on one of these to gain power over people - by fulfilling the Herbert said this was inspired by missionaries and exploit other cultures. So the people of chosen ones who will free them. But really, used by the Bene Gesserit to control people. city of Arrakeen. And Jessica hires a Fremen Not all the people of Arrakis are Fremen. aren't Fremen. The Fremen are their own specific "will-o'-the-sand" people who live outside the eyes because their environment is saturated with Fremen have a reputation for being "fierce" their knives". The Harkonnens and the Emperor "aren't worth considering". They think there edge of the desert. But the Atreides and that they could be more powerful than they the book, and we gradually learn more about them. "well-dipper" - cause water is super And Mapes isn't just here for a job interview. She the prophecy of the Lisan al-Gaib. So Mapes shows of a sandworm. And she asks Jessica what is the and Mapes gets all excited, because the shows that Jessica must know the secrets of Fremen But thing is, in the book, Jessica is bullshitting of the crysknife. She was gonna say that the a weapon, but Mapes interrupted Jessica Jessica then plays along and acts like she knows sayings from the Missionaria Protectiva, but exploits Mapes' religion to manipulate her and win how it can warp our thinking and control us. the Fremen. In the book, after Jessica leaves, "Poor thing". Mapes pities Jessica, and knows just as the Atreides use the Fremen, the Fremen Paul is attacked by a hunter-seeker - a weapon of needle - a "ravening sliver of metal" that The hunter-seeker is controlled remotely by a bad, so it relies on motion to find its target. while the deadly needle points at his face. So faces a deadly needle, and to survive he has Meanwhile, in the book, Jessica explores her new a palm reader - which is a lock that only opens So Jessica picks the lock by subtly using her Bene Gesserit muscle control. hacking or magic or raw strength to break a so that's how Jessica opens the door. A place full of lush plants and water on this terrible waste. This much water could sustain used for the pleasure of the rich and powerful. trees, which are also a waste of precious water. these trees are "sacred". But in the book, these the trees with "envy" and "hate" for the waste of But the movie takes away that moral complication, between Arrakis' people and its environment. hidden message from another Bene Gesserit. A braille. And it warns her that there's a traitor In the book, Thufir also gets a message warning Harkonnens, and they deliberately trick Thufir Harkonnens divide the Atreides, turn them against Doctor Yueh, who is working for the Harkonnens. that his beloved Jessica is plotting against him. is the traitor, to make the Harkonnens think they So the plot quickly gets complicated in the plans" and "plots within plots". The story is And there's a sense from the start of the he's "a man snared by Destiny", caught in an thinking about how he'll die. And Paul is Paul sees that Leto makes mistakes, and he Part of Paul growing up and becoming a man is The Atreides takeover of Arrakis doesn't go well. so the Atreides can't harvest much spice attack from the Emperor's Sardaukar and the Leto sent Duncan to try to make an alliance with with a scene of Duncan landing on Arrakis. So live in caves called sietches. There are millions the Harkonnens and Emperor realise. The Fremen devices to help them survive in the desert. Duncan So the Harkonnens and the Emperor are too arrogant But the Atreides are open-minded and willing So the Atreides meet Stilgar, The book emphasises Stilgar's "aura of power", and Unlike the arrogant Harkonnens, Leto shows shows respect for Leto by spitting on the table - from the body is a sign of respect. Fremen In the book, Duncan helped the Fremen fight some Fremen while also serving Leto - representing an gives Duncan a crysknife, the sacred maker's are offering a huge bounty to anyone who can a crysknife and has spice-blue eyes would appear And in the book, the Harkonnen Mentat-Assassin addiction. So it seems that the Harkonnens want a so that he can kill the Atreides if the Atreides deadly subplot hidden within the story. so there's hope for a larger alliance The Atreides meet Liet-Kynes. Kynes is an Emperor to study the environment of Arrakis. it's her job to make sure everyone follows the Atreides take over. But secretly, the Emperor and to let the Harkonnens attack them. But Kynes' In the book, Liet-Kynes is a man. Kynes' father And Liet-Kynes's mother was a Fremen woman. So Liet-Kynes married a Fremen, and they had a in the movie as well as in the book. So Kynes to the Fremen. Kynes leads the Fremen under the to be two different people at first. The Atreides Fremen god. It's only later that we find out that are the same person. So there are two sides Outsider, and native. Scientist, and leader. are special outfits for the desert that cool the your sweat, pee and poop, is captured by the suit without a stillsuit, in the desert's heat, you'll into lots of detail on the different technologies Kynes shows the Atreides how to wear their thing for someone who's never used one before. But properly. And that shocks Kynes, because it fits shall know your ways as though born to them". prophecy. In the book, Kynes thinks of himself believe in superstitions. But Paul does fit the truth in the prophecy of the Lisan al-Gaib mixed The Atreides fly out to the desert to learn are called ornithopters, which is a real The book describes 'thopters as looking Harvester machines extract spice from they look like giant beetles with snouts and look for its technology, but the books have a The vibrations from spice harvesting always harvesters are flown to safety by a carry-all. it doesn't turn up at all because of Harkonnen to save the workers from the sandworm. This shows Human life matters more to him than money, and But Leto isn't totally selfless - he is a give the workers a bonus payment, and he says it's Kynes points out that Leto floods Arrakis with Duke". And Leto admits that his propaganda His image as a heroic leader is partly an act, a show some real heroism, but that image is partly In the book, the Atreides host a dinner party politicians, smugglers - it gives the sense of with lots of different players with When the Harkonnens were in charge here, they had dumping it onto towels on the ground, then It was cruel, and demeaning. So Leto stops And Jessica declares that the conservatory, in trust for all the people of Arrakis. So again, respect and generosity. Leto says he's gonna make any meaningful changes? Like sure, he gives this fundamentally unfair feudal political Leto just does a different water-wasting ritual propaganda to make the Atreides look good. liberal and progressive, but are really just Frank Herbert said the Atreides are "admirable", &quot;common folk&quot; as do their enemies". honourable in public, they do some sneaky forge signatures to take property and evict the The Atreides use Thufir, who is a "Master of and deceit" wherever he goes. And Leto's whole and exploit the land for spice. Leto says that He says the honourable Atreides banner So the Atreides are more moral than the still fundamentally based on coercion and force. but it's also very tense - people are nervous there's a hidden snooper device to detect to ready their soldiers during dinner. Behind the formality and glamour there Some of the most powerful people at the party everyone needs water to live, and on this planet someone what drowning is, and what boats are - anyone to ever drown or use a boat. So alongside Frank Herbert said the value of water on Arrakis resource shapes politics and culture shows environment. No one is completely separated from begging for drops of moisture, nor the politicians important characters in Dune is the planet itself. and secretly plots to destroy each other. working with the Harkonnens. We learn that the Women try to seduce Paul. A water-seller bickers from Kynes, connected to Kynes' relationship with environment of Arrakis to give it more water and whether this is possible. And this whole time and he's super stressed about it. So at rises, there's a growing sense of danger to the with Atreides blood on its horns. drunk. He's stressed, and homesick on this and complains, and he reveals to Jessica that understands why Leto has been acting weird and So Jessica confronts Thufir. She says she's not a saying he is good at analysing the world around feelings - she says he's biased against her for her closeness with Leto. She brags about her is shocked to witness the true hidden power and considers killing Jessica. This in-fighting realises that. But they fail to work together Jessica and Thufir are a Bene Gesserit and superhumans. But no matter how smart you are, anger, fear, biases. Their emotions Jessica and Thufir fail to find the real Leto finds out about this fight between Jessica suspicious of the woman he loves. He regrets Jessica is Leto's concubine, not his wife. Leto seem like he's available for a marriage alliance. anyone else. Leto goes to tell Jessica the truth her - but tragically, before he can tell her, So Yueh is the doctor for the Atreides family. And for him to be a traitor - because Yueh is a Imperial Conditioning is a kind of mental for a Suk doctor to kill or betray their masters. mark of a Suk doctor. But the Harkonnens broke Wanna, and they tortured her, to blackmail Yueh but he does it to protect his wife. Yueh doesn't So throughout the book, Yueh feels conflicted, Yueh thinks that after betraying Leto, he'll And he's right. Each chapter of the Dune in-universe history book written years after the future historians think about these characters. black in treachery". "A Child's History" says So this shows how history doesn't capture the but he's not some one-dimensional character with his own feelings and perspective. Catholic Bible. He thinks he gives Paul the Yueh thinks, Paul will now go where Yueh cannot but Yueh thinks himself damned to hell. dangerous for Yueh. Because as a Bene Gesserit, lies. So Yueh has to carefully control his words his secret by expressing his real grief and they really connect emotionally. So much that he's working for the Harkonnens. Jessica sees decides not to investigate because Yueh is such So this tragic, heartfelt scene makes us Yueh kills Mapes. He hits Leto with a paralysing so they can be captured. And Yueh turns off the Sardaukar can attack. But Yueh also betrays into Leto's mouth - a weapon filled with poison to get revenge for the torture of Wanna. the Atreides are shocked by how many soldiers amount of money for troop transport. Like, The Baron has been planning this for a long time, In the movie, the Harkonnens use these "slow shields. While in the book, the Harkonnens use men hiding in caves - it's a surprise secret kill or scatter all Atreides on the planet, desert" with lasguns. The Harkonnens want In the book, there's a scene where the Baron and to give Jessica to Piter as his prisoner or slave torturer and killer. Piter is "a twisted Mentat" made him "an animal" with violent selfish desires, thinker. Like, the Baron convinces Piter not to of Arrakis - and Jessica sees that the Baron is Mentat mind, Piter doesn't see this. And the So the Baron and Piter are both smart, dangerous Jessica sees that they're kind of incompetent. by their emotions and arrogance and greed. Jessica and Paul with their powerful human minds. The Emperor and the Bene Gesserit are okay with killed as well. Cause Jessica and Paul are and under the rules of warfare in Dune, murdering So the Baron can't kill Jessica and Paul directly and learn the truth. So instead, the Baron tries that Piter may choose to dump Jessica and Paul in the Baron can they say truthfully that he didn't with word trickery. Dune explores how words and thinking. So some of the most talkative characters the Baron doesn't say much. But in the book, the in theatrical, self-aggrandizing speeches. In Dune, the deepest truths are not expressed So Paul and Jessica are sent to the desert to die. so she can't use her Voice power to control the is, but he manages to command the men to ungag and kill them. In the movie, Paul does some he kicks the dude so hard his heart stops. We Because Yueh has pulled some strings to help survival kit in the thopter. And he arranges is forced to betray the Atreides, but he also does Yueh faces the Baron. The deal was that Yueh then the Baron would free Yueh's wife Wanna, so he and Wanna can "join" each other in word trickery. So in the movie, it seems like Yueh it's different. Cause Yueh never really believed He thought she was probably already dead. But from her suffering. Wanna was a Bene Gesserit, So by facing the Baron in person, and Wanna is definitely dead, she's free from Yueh can die satisfied. Yueh also succeeds in the poison tooth to attack the Baron. Yueh thinks and Harkonnens against him, so at least Yueh gives So Yueh feels that he succeeded - he outsmarted final breath, he is defiant and triumphant. but in a way his death is a heroic self-sacrifice The Baron faces Leto helpless before him. He's and House Atreides have hated each other for ten a Harkonnen for cowardice after a battle. enemies. But in the book, the Baron's victory And he finds out that Paul and Jessica have so he seeks comfort in food. Dune is about the and body. So the villain, the Baron, is someone The Baron constantly eats, he is "always desires - in the book, the Baron drugs and his urges he can't even control the movements touching and fiddling compulsively. The Baron is of the Bene Gesserit ideal of human self-control. control others. He treats people like objects Rabban. He plans to kill Piter when he 'outlives Arrakis as "slaves", no more than a "labor pool". and "rabbits", or as sheep and chickens, and of to animals and objects, he dehumanises everyone ultimate evil in a story about the human spirit. days with his family on Caladan. His last flesh the day shapes", which suggests that our and that we make our experiences and interconnected with the universe when he dies - a meteor streaked through the sky on Caladan. the Baron. The gas kills Piter, but the Baron he's still hurt by the gas, so he needs to have The black goo isn't in the book. But it is in a reference to that. Or it could be a reference to to this bit in It's Always Sunny, who knows. And Paul's consciousness expands. The effects father's death, it all comes together to unlock every detail of the world around him - he but more. Paul has visions of the future not just "ripped away to reveal naked time". He doesn't see possibilities - branching paths ever changing see everything, much of the future is hidden to is pregnant, and that her daughter will be "St. on Arrakis and their eyes will turn blue from the Kwisatz Haderach of the Bene Gesserit plan. unexpected", "a seed" - and he again feels his of religious war - of fanatical legions spreading with him as their messianic leader. The book calls to a primordial human need to spread our genes species through chaos and upheaval. It's "war as terrible violent future. And in the book, he's knowledge and cold logic separates Paul from to grieve, but he feels nothing. His transcendence "a monster" and "A freak", and he blames Jessica, this change in him. Jessica suddenly feels afraid In the book, Paul considers joining the Spacing prescient mind. But he decides not to, because he and Jessica will join the Fremen, and they will Muad'Dib is the name of this kangaroo-mouse which is well adapted to survive in the deserts of Fremen mythology because one of Arrakis' two moons So Paul emerges from the womb of the tent reborn. is no longer a child but as a man, the new Duke Paul and Jessica meet up with Duncan, and ordered Kynes to help destroy the Atreides, so But Kynes saw Leto's heroism and leadership. And Kynes saw that the Atreides are Kynes takes the Atreides to an old ecological of Arrakis. The book explains that Kynes' father, systems of life, climate, water, animals. Pardot environment of Arrakis, to make it a green planet Liet-Kynes and the Fremen have continued to change desert, feeding it moisture harvested from the the desert. And they're doing this secretly. The spice to hide Fremen activity from satellites. Arrakis - if Paul becomes Emperor of the universe. plans a play for the throne. If Paul can prove attacked the Atreides, everyone would turn of the Landsraad - it limits the Emperor's power, the Emperor, and marry one of the Emperor's Paul could help Kynes change Arrakis. book, he also shows humility and loyalty to Kynes that Atreides heroism that makes them compelling Then the Sardaukar attack, coming to capture or through a door with a lasgun. Lasguns are powerful Cause if a laser beam touches a shield, the nuclear explosion, which kills the lasgun user Duncan leaves a shield as a trap to blow up the Sardaukar avoid using lasguns here, cause To give Paul and Jessica time to escape, and is killed. Just like in Paul's dream earlier. come true. Will the holy war come true as well? exit. In the book, they go through a way but then extinguish, so that In the movie, Kynes heads to the desert and uses With these maker hooks, Kynes plans to mount the great secrets of Fremen power. But Kynes is the Emperor. Kynes defiantly says that her religious name for the sandworms - "Old Father so that she and the Sardaukar are eaten by her the power of the Fremen and the sandworms. Kynes' death is very different. The Harkonnens delirious, and has hallucinations of his father plan to change Arrakis, with all these endless environment. But while Kynes thinks about is killing him - he's burning in the sun, birds is killed by a spiceblow - which is the explosive So Kynes and his father spent their lives gets killed by the planet he tried to control. This shows the limits of human knowledge ever-changing machinations of the universe, can control. No plan or science can tame the Paul and Jessica escape by flying into with winds that can "cut metal like butter" and But with Paul's new consciousness, in the storm - the turbulence, the vortexes, all the and sees the right path to fly to safety. man Jamis. Jamis says to understand a process, philosophy of how to think - the world is ever changing. So you can't just focus on one on one narrow plan like Kynes did. Your thinking flow of reality. And that's how Paul and Jessica flow. Just as Jessica and Paul master their In the movie, Paul hears the voices of and so he lets go of the thopter controls, it's like an act of faith in the movie. it's not about losing consciousness. It's Paul and Jessica fly to safety in the book. in the storm, and that their victory is finally of Arrakis, and he tells him to "squeeze" - to as much money as possible, to make back the money happy to be a brutal dictator again. In the book person on Arrakis, and asks which weapons he's orders Rabban to kill all the Fremen. In the book, Rabban says it might not be easy to kill the Sardaukar's ass a couple times, and characters But the Baron doesn't listen, and arrogantly Rabban is afraid of the Baron - the book says but he does inflict "painful" In the book, there's a lot more with other important characters, which Paul and Jessica travel the desert. Living a true Arrakeen existence. The rhythm of changes when they sleep, changes how they think. all the different kinds of sand - pea sand, The desert looks like an "ocean", "full of idea for Dune when he was researching sand dunes like water, just slower. That began his research linguistics that led to Dune. But Jessica just misses Caladan, and misses Leto. slide. So she uses her Bene Gesserit training to while Paul uses his powerful mind to figure out chemistry experiment, mixing battery acid with fun little science-fiction problem-solving scene, To find the Fremen, Paul and Jessica have is super dangerous because of the deadly worms. But Paul and Jessica face this danger just like said sandworms are like the bull in the arena, or treasure of spice - the worm is the monster that they have to "walk without rhythm" - a sandwalk In the book, they also set a thumper to distract to walk without rhythm while you can hear the control over the body and mind. Paul accidentally and it summons a worm, so they've gotta leg shocked by the size of the worm. In the book, with crystal teeth glimmering the moonlight, and Paul wonders about the mystery of exactly The book mentions that sandworms' bodies create Arrakis without many plants making oxygen and then they face Stilgar and his Fremen. And In the book, Stilgar asks if Paul and Jessica are spirits. Stilgar mentions "Istislah", an Islamic the Fremen speak "the language of Ilm and Fiqh" Cause the Fremen and their language are loosely Author Frank Herbert was particularly influenced Muslims in the Caucasus - it describes a religious and fight against imperial "Padishah" invaders, lines in Dune that are taken from this book. a Western man who joined with Bedouin Ottoman Empire. Stilgar says the Fremen are "the Frank was also inspired by the people of the water. As well as indigenous American groups. So In-universe, the Dune book says that Egypt - "Misr" is Arabic for Egypt, and Arabia. Over thousands of years, this peoples' combination of Zen Buddhism with Sunni Islam. persecution and displacement, including nine Eventually they settled on Arrakis, and developed desert, and hardened by their suffering. decisions for the good of the group - so Stilgar's So Jessica uses her Bene Gesserit fighting skills Fremen man Jamis. So Jessica proves that she has In the book, he has some fun dialogue calling one piece of lizard turd!". Stilgar is charismatic, his tribe. He's also very intelligent, and willing Fremen how to fight in her "weirding way". And in the desert. It will be "a good exchange of In the book, Jessica does more of her Missionaria Fremen that she and Paul fit the Lisan al-Gaib home, as though she has some mystical knowledge of map once - "If only he knew the tricks we use!", at her manipulation. But she's determined to use Paul meets Chani, and he's shocked to recognise an "elfin face", a laughing voice, the grace feels embarrassed that she caught him with a Jamis is angry that Paul beat him up. So Jamis Amtal means to test something until it breaks, to their limits, like the gom jabbar - Jamis Jamis says this will test whether Paul and Jessica might be making "a false way among us", which.. she is. In the book, Jessica uses but the Fremen realise she's manipulating him and Paul has seen possible futures from this is at the centre of a nexus in time, a storm could change the future dramatically. There are a clear path to victory. The only way to survive In the book, Chani gives Paul warning him about Jamis' fighting style. But in and that he's gonna die. Which is a fun In the movie, Chani gives Paul a crysknife seeing in visions. Paul saw Chani stabbing him Paul salutes Jamis in the same way that Duncan And they prepare to fight. In the book, Paul and Jamis fight wearing just loincloths. so we don't get to see Timothee In the movie, Paul hears the voices of not to resist, to fulfil his destiny as the rely on destiny - he focusses on his training. On Bene Gesserit mastery of his body and mind. Paul some of the best warriors in the universe. a disadvantage. Cause Paul is trained for so his blade can penetrate shields. But Jamis because shields attract sandworms. So Paul who isn't trained with shields, attacks to change his fighting style. Sometimes to So Paul kills Jamis, winning the respect of survived. But in the book, she does something calls Paul a killer, her voice harsh and full about killing Jamis. Because Paul gets a lot including from the girl of his dreams, Chani. killing. So she applies some emotional In the movie, there's a sadness to Jamis' Jamis being a "friend", someone who taught Paul and chance - that vision didn't come true, and friend. So Paul's visions aren't guaranteed, just hopes and fears in the real world - they can limit our thinking. Dune explores the power In the book, Paul cries for Jamis, and the because of how precious water is in the desert. taught him that killing has a price. So maybe, who taught him, did come true after all. with them. Because when a Fremen dies, in a "deathstill" and reclaimed for the Fremen but his water belongs to the tribe". heroic speech. He says he sees his future, an uplifting and optimistic end to the movie. But uncertain. Paul and Jessica are unsure about the Paul doesn't see his future clearly - he feels his visions of the bloody Jihad, and desperately We see a Fremen riding a sandworm to travel - the Fremen and their desert. Chani says "This This movie only covers the first half Which itself is just the beginning of a larger Frank Herbert said that the first Dune book has a is like sex - it starts slow, and speeds So by ending this movie halfway through the leaving us with waiting, without a This movie is a mostly faithful adaptation of the worlds and politics of the Imperium, the Gesserit. The evil Harkonnens defeat the Atreides, start to learn the ways of the desert. We see and hints of the dangers of the messiah. The religion and political exploitation and the important scenes like the dinner party, and the of Doctor Yueh, the meaning of Kynes' death, or It removes some of the Arabic references from Harkonnens and with Thufir. Hopefully But to understand the meaning of Paul's story, about the other books. So we've got a new video We've also got a Podcast episode out now talking We're also doing a Q&amp;A livestream about Dune on professional shitposter Alt Schwift X has that Dune content linked below. We will make more Song of Ice and Fire, and the upcoming Game of House of the Dragon is based You can get Fire &amp; Blood or Dune as an audiobook Sign up for a Premium Plus trial membership, you cancel the trial. You could get any Game of also includes unlimited access to thousands of Sign up at audible.com/asx, or text asx the Premium Plus trial membership for the free linked below. And thanks to the Patrons, The360archangel, Stan, Tor, Paul, Luke, Master_A,