I hereby declare an emergency martial of Korea from the threat of North Korean shameless pro north anti-state forces freedom and happiness. our constitutional order of freedom. His party, the nation and the world by political gamble. decree just a few hours after he took But the shock move sparking protests in National Assembly, where lawmakers the dramatic late night vote. after Korean assets take a hit The finance minister, central bank and This is the Asia trade. developments from Seoul and also the I'm Share Ryan in Tokyo. We will be tracking all of the market up to some truly extraordinary Sherry. was swift, right? significant of a move this was, not only president to declare martial law since a that painful and bloody past of South So you saw the market reaction being You're looking at the ETFs related to The Korean one, in fact, a one point But it did pare some of those losses on regulators. though. meeting in about an hour. well as South Korea will take all market if needed. that safe haven move. saw those declines of a more pronounced But take a look at how the set up is futures unchanged at the moment. given all of these rising tensions in Not a lot of movement for Nikkei futures still towards that 149 level against the We continue to see a lot of strength in We are now watching the offshore yuan as low against the US dollar. on export controls on semiconductor retaliating. Korea we're president do this all go lawmakers who voted to nullify his Take a listen. I will accept the parliament's request meeting. a cabinet meeting, the quorum for early hour, so I will lift it as soon as Our Asia security reporter Alastair Gale And Alistair, I mean, this is being itself, as I said, that path to for South Korean. Well, you were there for ages in Seoul That's right. overnight in Seoul, as you say. democracy. military dictatorship. Korea, this brought back some of those You know, we've seen the soldiers in the This kind of like crackdown on democracy age. Korea, which is, you know, a close U.S. leading voices in the world for kind of president to make this kind of move. and also how quickly he was rebuked by he's lifted that order to try to ban the media. we're discussing, the democratic But now it's going to continue because Guns are going to be removed. I think we're looking at a period of politics. President Yoon. Party, which controls the parliament, He has to face that question of what is Does he resign? possibility that he would be impeached And we may have a presidential election scheduled in 2027. Yoon. It's going to be kind of worrying times Gil here at bloomberg, asian security continue to watch the market reaction Korea's importance when it comes to the a big exporter. global data today as Lombard, head of of London. But of course, there's a lot to watch But when it comes to how you view this is this sort of a whirlwind sort of or does it suggest that elevated careful of going forward? Heidi, for a period of extended likely to be under pressure. and the China trade competition and some Three the IRA, which has been a massive then the domestic economy weak on the So the one I think is in for it for a while we see the domestic political move towards this impeachment, which I buy some clarity on the future of Well, you know, as you sort of spark of of a cycle of political impeachment, then leading, of course, to within that government as well. maintained here, given, as Gerry South Korean economy is, but also how trade tensions are almost guaranteed Yeah, absolutely. notably the semiconductor side. Key providers of air related memory stage of the cycle. through to steel ships, Korea is a key manufacturing cycles are absolutely and not only for the manufacturing side, North Korea, China, Russia North Korean troops in Ukraine still as unknown for what it means within the So political stability for Korea And it just comes to show how much these markets, right? when it comes to carrier related assets And we're also watching a similar sort unfold in France when we have a no The Philippines also struggling with its violence as well. these political wranglings around the going into 2025 when we're seeing more especially when you have a more volatile Absolutely. Some of the markets find very hard to to Political risk is, in many cases binary. becomes, you know, in your face, as it Clearly, now with inflation high, bias globally. elections, and that is going to persist I think Korea could see a relatively of the European issues that you And so it's definitely a key factor these issues are less visible from a but a perhaps a more important factor in You can track the number of protests and is pushing China towards an outside So very important for global markets with China and Korea being the top of We're looking at the iShares MSCI South now, where we're seeing the lowest What will be the key transmission given these political raise risks and Will it be through the currency And how much more difficult does that around the world? currency and it does for these central banks. Yong, for instance, the one already before today's incidents, the one under standpoint at higher rates, hitting variable mortgages, the Trump tariff, structural push through the NPS, the reallocating in quite a significant way assets. depreciation to be okay, it was already the war and trying to prop up the And that's been complicated, to say the So the currency clearly an issue for the I think this puts them on course for January as they try to regenerate a bit economy. political directive to maintain a strong monetary policy needed to support growth potential Trump tariffs. dynamics are counter counter current to key dynamic to watch through 2025. and volatility into next year. us late as it is V Rory GREENE from They also have ongoing analysis when it Korea throughout the course of the day We'll be speaking a little bit later And ahead of that will also be hearing Yong Lee. stories, and as Gerri mentioned, of the other side of the world. says he thinks the government can Marine Le Pen's far right party is coalition later on Wednesday to topple For more, let's bring in Bloomberg, director Rosalind MATHISEN. realistic, being hopeful, this sort of, of gamesmanship to try and hope and a What's interesting to see these first by Emmanuel Macron through this facing or driving the government action It's really been falling on. negotiating and to and to where that the And so it's interesting in his first believe that this no confidence vote He doesn't believe the left and the government. left and the right have one thing in Yes, they do. They really do like this budget from the They really don't like what the Prime efforts to bring in the fiscal deficit And so the common enemy here doesn't is government. together? with this no confidence vote on They do have the numbers to push it There'll be a debate and then followed And really, it's hard to say at this government? try to have the numbers in parliament to And even if they survive this vote? Right. continues and Macron needs to rule with Well, either way, it's not good for because if the government does survive, concessions to do so. want because they're worried really French economy, that deficit blowing And they've already been concerned about far. survives. find who's going to be the new prime Is that a prime minister who can bring He can get a budget through and could do Now in this environment does suggest to have to make concessions to succeed So either way, it's not looking sit, and that's why we're seeing those example, the French stock market all on effect on the euro, that anxiety There's also political upheaval when it Right. you know, possibility that this is kind crisis. axis and those economies and those Well, it does. European economy and you've got the same time. course, is that we've got an incoming US threatening all sorts of things, enemies alike. competitor when it comes to trade and And you don't have a sense of strong now when it comes to how to approach a And what can you do to counteract that also on the security side? there. and the conflict in the Middle East. you know, on the economic front, but rowing in the same direction. concern. Africa news director Roslyn Matheson More ahead on the Asia trade. Take a look at what we're seeing when it volatility, some of the expected And we're seeing one volatility really Now, the overnight implied volatility, spiking to the highest since the U.S. And this even as we've seen some restored with financial markets it comes to financial and fixed markets, over seas listed. signs of stabilizing. unlimited liquidity until those markets But this, of course, as we continuing to political and ongoing risk implications decision to impose martial law in the 40 years. response as well, the swift reversal, of And now looking at what comes ahead of track and just a great deal of Let's bring in now for the market view, manager and investment specialist at Frida, great to have you with us. also seeing political upheaval in France What is the sort of best prism for Yes, I think we have been dealing with a the last year, really with the Middle I think basically what it means for uncertainty and something that you need investments to say how much of these companies that I invest in and should I pay for it or willing to keep it until a But so far, it's been interesting. reacting very aggressively to this. Should be sort of steer ourselves for political uncertainty, particularly as foreign policy, trade policy, fiscal Yes, I think that probably is one of the And our view is that we've already seen So the market's pricing in a lot of sort We believe at this point in time with through. We don't know how it's going to play So what Trump is saying is it's really negotiations. probably throughout the next four years, Trump, a lot of commentary from him and through throughout as well. Trump trade and the potential tariffs, easing next year, how would you assess see the impeachment proceedings of opposition actually pushes this through? definitely have a ripple effect through the world economies. 13th largest economy in the world. It will definitely, I think, cause a lot will this evolve? and the history of the the previous sort of a lot of uncertainty and political I think from an investor's point of view currently have any positions directly in But if you think about the semiconductor Samsung do account for the majority of So that is something we need to bear in If you think about bigger investments conductive supply chain, where will you I think at this point in time it's will have a big impact on on the political uncertainty and implications so forth. course, a tech has been a huge trade in But even when it comes to the broader continue to hit hard between Washington Beijing now retaliating on that Chinese access to advanced technologies. right now going into 2025? tech names, especially around chips? that space for quite some time. and we sold it quite a while ago. that if you look at the max, even in semiconductors, it's it's really been on And what we are seeing now is sort of is more infrastructure companies like And then also of late, we have been the services and software that sit on So we have been taking our profits in over the last while. yes, the valuations have run as well. they are still delivering a lot of But we just feel that it's probably time see if you can broaden your portfolio chain and also the broader economy and And political fighting over budgets French government as well, which is Any opportunities at this point that So we recently one of our investment he came back and really felt that they board. those economies, France as well as makers have been in a bit of a They're really getting hammered on the well. opportunities within Europe. particularly for a large economy like on the sidelines. this will impact the equity market. example, in our portfolios. point. on Friday on Guy, who's a client, specialist at Affinity Investment Laura ahead here in the Asia trade. I view the economy as being in a good progress in recent years with dual stable prices. inflation appears to be in a sustainable It feels to me like rates come down a now. my pet metric. to look at inflation and not just the categories. inflation. the U.S. comes to monetary policy and, of course, mind at the moment, not just when it policy going into the next year for the extraordinary political volatility and just South Korea, but also across the Take a look at how we're tracking when digesting all of this. Even as we see the end of martial law South Korean president, we are still much active in these markets. just about 4/10 of 1%. to the upside at the moment. flat with a little bit of green there as South Korea, of course, regulators there per usual as the martial law is lifted, running as usual. liquidity until we see that further And of course you see that, for example, one overnight implied volatility spiking election last month. not just look for sort of the immediate next, right, in terms of what the road of process, one that we should be means for sort of political stability if route and heading to an election. road just today. Korean opposition party may be proposing We have seen really the reaction coming including newspapers, talking about how responsibility for his actions to label, law actually really backtracks 40 years that was achieved very, very painfully So we'll continue to watch the Korean market opens in less than half an But let's bring in Bloomberg and live give us a preview of what to expect to 2009 lows, then rebounding a little But now if you have these impeachment mean for the currency? be a bit nervous. authorities, particularly the Bank of They're going to make sure that they're They're going to make sure there's in Korea that applies to the foreign equity market as well. by the people that matter the most, Korea's financial markets. careful what you wish for, because over hoping to capture more of the Korean one bit like the Chinese yuan as well. The Korean one was the most traded in DF charts, but not for maybe the reasons I was going to ask, So what is the world? Korea's important in the global supply But when it comes to financial assets, I mean, they're trying to make it more Well, certainly they've captured And although there's going to be some be hoping as well is it it reaffirms the are very big, they're very global. since July. Valuations have come down quite a while. could be that global investors are back there's some value there. turbulence, of course, but if the stabilize the markets relatively quickly into Korea. what Treasuries also getting bid up haven moves, but also Bitcoin taking a But up let's talk a little bit about the fight over budgets threatening to in France, we thought that was going to This week. pressure, the euro as well. fairly sanguine approach. resolve this at the last minute. bond spreads, which is the biggest French yields and other parts of the Germany, they haven't widened that much. ago. People was expecting 100 basis points Germany's spreading is well short of sorted things out at the last minute. If they don't, there's plenty of room currency, but one that people are it should be closer to parity with the It could happen very quickly if the The vote is expected later in the day This could happen fast. The euro probably declines more and even further. decline again even before the latest We heard from on Monday that we would end. Always good to have you especially here But let's continue discussing the Mark was saying, there might be a little able to resolve what's happening over And perhaps that's also a little bit of Macron, who says the government may be Wednesday. executive dean and professor of politics the European Union now look Great to have you with us. on Wednesday with this no confidence Well, firstly, really interesting absolutely right. priced into the markets. think it will, then I think we're going So I think it does look like the no Marine Le Pen, who, of course, is in Assembly Nationale, it came out instructing her deputies to vote against We know the left is going to vote And given that two thirds of the seats or the right, Macron has got a small I think it does look like curtains for So we are going to have a period of How could this then play out? topple the President, Macron has said in He still needs to appoint a new prime And of course, we have the budget to I think if you're optimistic, you think goes back to the position that he was in of the last parliamentary election were off, the moderates from the left bloc to create a larger centrist bloc and another prime minister, probably go back Hollande to one of those sort of senior That's the optimistic view. in a stalemate here, that Macron that we don't have an operating majority We're going to have a technocratic roll through the budget from last year. markets, but it will ensure that kind of to pay the wages of people, the police, basically hold that in place with a long the opportunity to have parliamentary Investors and markets have been fretting France for months. upheaval in Germany as well. the potential for this is being sort of moment. Do you think that weakening Franco-German axis really contributes to Yeah, I think I think Europe's in a good And part of the problem with this is, of got the promise of tariffs. policy, potentially, we've got flank of Europe. Europe. pain as well. the conservative side at the moment. from France conjoined with very flat Italy, Spain, U.K. I, I kind of think that it looks a bit at the moment. export is down about 9% last six months, and very considerably over the next And of course, we've been following what taking place in South Korea as well. With the implementation of martial law And I do wonder, as we see these pockets is there a sense that this kind of into the fore as a favorite tactic? political volatility globally going into Yeah, I mean, it's pretty difficult to isn't it? and you're thinking, where is the best Where is the best place to put cash at And it does look quite jumpy. situation will resolve itself over the like that. politically, but it does look like the normality will be restored. I would say, than than South Korea or So I think, you know, I you know, moment, people who are heavily invested equities. action is going to be. Saturday does anything to restore a bit one of those interesting things. says, you know what, I don't see the to the European economy once I'm back in And, you know, a moderating tone from would really help, I think, settle down confidence that some of that turbulence case, Even the Australian case and so on as we come into his new tenure in Simon told me, executive Dean and University. morning. following. ship management firms that it says play Iranian oil to foreign markets. than two months after the U.S. Iran's oil and gas sectors after a Indonesia says Apple has offered to to lift a ban on iPhone six sales. a tenfold increase from Apple's prior Indonesia has prohibited the sale of company has failed to comply with More ahead on the Asia trade. Right. head towards the market opens in South The finance ministry now saying that the authorities are taking all possible them if needed. overnight we saw those big moves with before reversing some of those losses. martial law decree was lifted. the South Korea related ETFs trading in futures losing more than one and a half side, Heidi. outside the National Assembly clashing tried to rule by the military, also the media. that the opposition party could be president today. volatility in the markets is what Absolutely extraordinary 10 hours, nine overnight. And a lot of Asian markets will be seeing this for the first time. terms of the other reaction, the Bank of also just put through that unexpected They'll be holding extraordinary meeting local time to to talk about steps that the broader markets. the political leaders future will be put even his fellow party members, foreign you've mentioned, the opposition calling propose the impeachment motion as early If the party hurries up as much as today, report it to Parliament tomorrow, hours later. could begin very quickly depending on So we continue to watch this continues to play out. just yet. get the details. been talking about some of the with, of course, the wrapping up of COP South Korea over the past few days as And in China, decarbonisation efforts Shanghai, which is underway, the draws even closer. security in recent years by expanding supplies. deeper dive into some of the key sectors OPEC head of research Ali Azari, joins So this is a 10th the NSF summit, A lot has changed since 2015. Indeed, if I may go back to 2015. month before COP21 was set to start in At that time, the renewables market in were more expensive than building And the combination of solar and wind at China's electricity generation. than 200 gigawatts. year over 1400 gigawatts of solar and almost a quarter of annual likes each And since the end of the last decade, competitive energy technology in China of the world. has also emerged as the largest well as manufacturing, electric vehicles And on the latter two, I'll say, has And this is all even before Trump takes And we are seeing China tensions with So have you heard anything from the all of this? that despite the unfortunate rising on the Chinese side, there's still solution, if possible. specifically, the players that despite what may happen transition in China and rest of the One of the speakers, Joan Fung Li, who players in drafting China's original observation yesterday that even under emissions in the US continued to decline policies again of U.S., his own electric vehicle market, continue to So despite the rhetoric, there's this and it's a foregone conclusion that it's BLOOMBERG Any I've heard of API Ali Zaidi there joining us from We have more ahead on the Asia trade. Markets in South Korea are set to open Our markets editor David Inglis joins us And Dave, you can see really Cosby related to South Korea, trading in three weeks now that we could today. be watching for the biggest reaction in Yeah, well, I think it would have been lot of the headlines which came through ample liquidity. bank in a moment. we're looking at likely declines in the In fact, I just had a glance at some of biggest stocks there, Samsung And we are likely to see losses in the given the current pricing right now. also consider that the markets did very So there is that itch to scratch. overnight and, you know, we're not done. impeachment is the next one to watch. out that statement. South Korean currency, that will be the So while this chapter may be closed, that the premium will perhaps remain And I think to your point there. overnight, we're back to levels last the fact that the overnight gauge is one week, one month and one year does hopefully short term. At the central bank. saying that they're going to meet in a I think it's important to keep in mind pressure to the currency. cut rates two meetings in a row and they a third time over the next three month And I would imagine if this persist, towards more easing if needed just to Back to you guys. course we do have in just a few minutes convening for that meeting as well to further economic support measures might This is South Korean markets opening as law just has been an extraordinary 10 country. Tokyo are next. This is the Asia trade we're counting Asia's major market opens with all eyes Jung saw guard declared martial law. hours later. volatility and uncertainty. Local media, Heidi, calling this a achievements for the country. And of course, that swift reversal, political on watchers. With some, including the likes of Ted impeachment process is really looking And we know that the opposition party of motion could get underway as early as the next 24 to 48 hours. Bank of Korea in their board meeting, to see if a further support measures I love that all hands on deck when it We heard from the finance ministry open as usual, that authorities will put markets if they're needed. Commission chairman also talking about There you go. the Korean one, in fact, seeing a little dollar. But this, of course, after the overnight seen since 2009 or so. pledges of unlimited liquidity by We have heard from them. as the cost is falling 1.9%. closely those big names in South Korea, Hynix as well. global supply chain context. falling about half a percent given the The key question right now, as Heidi, see that impeachment motion put in place political future of the U.S. rule by the military and ban political So the Korean War now strengthening 1% saw in the overnight session being In the New York session, we saw some big hit on those declines being exaggerated Let's actually get to the latest from So he Kim joins us now. markets right now. in seoul. reaction, i believe like 2% down on the B and then the korean one is a dollars. people's memory, this was this brought period when the martial law was imposed dictator was assassinated. experienced the martial law, a strong means, how it affects our daily lives. log on cryptocurrency exchanges and that Korean market was tanking, but it Assembly made a decision to require the the lift, the martial law. at the top, what are we watching in Right. expectation being set up at the motion to begin an impeachment process Right. opposition parties will try to go law, and it will be crucial to figure It is still unclear what the president he was truly beleaguered by a couple of Approval rating was plummeting to around lawmakers were keeps calling for a president's life over corruption And government's budget proposal was in So try to impeach him as soon as possible, investigations over the the president, around him that are about the motivation their corruption allegations. House was also saying that they weren't law was imposed. reaction also wouldn't be that positive. will be any moves also from North Korea political instability in South Korea. It's actually the impeachment was not years ago, like four, four years ago, we Park there. mean, I can't remember what happened trying to understand what it actually And then they were going against the newspapers and their news agencies. different because they are now like officials around their Ukraine. shaky at the moment. this geopolitical situation will months. to see what's going to happen next in A Bloomberg report said he came there in Let's get some more market reaction to Korea. by with us in Singapore has. head of global research and investment Jason, good to have you with us. We saw how the Korean one has recovered tell. perhaps seeing how this might play out. what the Bank of Korea does. takes. element of this, the financial I'm very hopeful there. I don't think that the politics is going months. complicated. of volatility going forward. that actually accentuates what has been You talked about volatility that is What can the BOK signal to perhaps allay And what are you hoping to hear? provision on an almost unlimited basis So, you know, it's just a backstop that as we have seen this morning, then then as much. It's it's a commitment to market markets to to whatever extent is period of months as the situation in the Of course, we heard earlier from the the government is willing to mobilise stability to the markets as well as the Is that enough, I guess, encouragement I think so far so good. of course, there has been the been rescinded. is is responding to for the most part. contextual and it's going to be It's going to be signs of increased risk So I think that that's just as long as full liquefaction of markets in response in bonds, in the exchange rate relative cautious. risk premium here for some time, but I offs, for example, as long as there is It's interesting because markets been so sanguine when it comes to to hot wars. over what the fiscal and trade outlook 2.0. priced for that level of risk? upheaval, maybe some brinkmanship is next few years? participants to adequately or accurately something that we've noted over the past failed in the United States and 2020 reaction, a sign of increased risk seven times larger than the market invasion of Ukraine. a market that is very sensitized to yet, I think, proven able to to safely they're facing. know, volatile out market activity. for buying opportunities as you see response to some of these surprises and relative to what was persisting prior to When you see upheaval in major in places like France at the moment, a sort of American exceptionalism when going into next year? synchronicity when it comes to places Well, I think that we have to appreciate differently than those in the rest of And I think, again, this is related to Since that time that Silicon Valley Bank annualized. that has exceeded 2% on an annual basis So again, this is this is explained to a But at some point the US is going to hit is going to be a situation where the relative to the rest of the world that I difficult period of adjustment as people assets. occurring in the next 6 to 12 months. things like investment in data centers models. industrialization, electrification, If you look at sidings permits, stopping anytime soon. volatility as it relates to trade, So I think that people do have to think allocating to places like India, Asia is something I think people have to Jason, the headlines coming out of South party there may ask you to leave the may visit you often. You talked about how Korean stocks have to do with the chaebol. imagine, given the developments that expected to expand. And again, I think that if this were be quite a surprise. prepare for a few months of uncertainty But what has been very encouraging in the realization from the FSC and to emulate Japan. in relation to the US market, what you as many public companies on a on a per You also find the return on capital in of that in the United States. corporate governance issues, cross And then you just also, again, too many ownership base that aren't demanding growth targets. opportunity here in Korea as the there is more willingness to embrace changes, to have the same sort of control that we have seen take hold in attitudes to Japan really changed almost commitment on the part of government to right. for investors, as you would imagine, if assets, some of the asset. Samsung Electronics if you play along and chips. important role to play in with the United States. the rest of the world. allies and, you know, a friend enemy President Trump and the incoming issues and that Korea is very much on I would say also, there's a lot of Again, to the extent that you see this corporate governance, it goes hand in companies into the hands of new owners to do with the assets. Again, it's hard to say. back this morning. shorter lived in terms of the market But but again, I think it's aa2 month monitor the situation very closely. context with the US dollar that is basis relative to trading partners. could become exacerbated over the next higher than markets expected. generally lead to depreciation of the of the exporters. ripple effects when it comes to the impact the rest of Asia, especially What might we see and what are the asset that we should be looking out for? India further. markets more broadly, but but also the And I think that it's very often these premium, it's always on a relative And I think a further narrowing of India You know, you have potential GDP growth actual GDP has oscillated. special India's current circumstances environment. amounts of cheaper crude oil from As that same time, they're also a main particularly the United States, looking So I actually think surprisingly, this Indian assets in investors, broader All right. Jason, thank you for stopping by, Jason. Research and Investment Strategy. Yeah. repercussions around Asian markets, of Korea, but surprisingly, we are seeing losses from the overnight session. more than 1% against the US dollar And this, of course, after hitting that paring back some of those losses. unlimited liquidity in the markets, we opposition party could be proposing a impeachment motion today. could be asking you to leave the party. paring back those earlier declines. green right now is materials gaining We have more ahead on the Asia trade. The tit for tat between China and the US several materials with high tech and This after President Biden's restrictions on Beijing, China. now from Hong Kong. damaging could this be for the United Yeah, a number of metals, including superhot materials, are banned for Graphite is going to be under strict This is an escalation of existing gallium had already been under stricter They require special licences to be able Now it's an outright ban and of course of the chip curbs that the Biden on Monday. These are metals that are used in satellite to semiconductors. is by far the the top supplier for globally. substitutes for them or source them from But it's going to be more expensive, the sale of these matters to the US, up. incentives for other countries to ramp So industry players are saying that they because this has been well anticipated. national reserves and miners have been deposits. that this could cost the US economy $3.4 But this essentially is a warning shot administration that China is serious escalation of trade restrictions. China's top leaders convening for the that's expected to take place next What are we expecting to see here in Yes. is taking place next Thursday and next So that's considered regular timing, have been floating around suggesting forward, that those rumors were This is a top up meeting where himself, will be discussing industrial They'll also be discussing the budget, although the exact numbers will only be session in March of next year. So we're not going to get that level of But still the readout from this meeting for any signal of what is occupying So some economists are expecting that GDP ratio next year to between three and Just to give more room for the central economy. package that's already been announced to So already we saw yesterday markets reversing some of their earlier And so expectations are high. question that will only find out next when banks China correspondent Ben Adler trade. Take a look at how European assets are coming online within Stoxx 50 futures. looking negative across the board. DAX crossing 20,000 points for European So in advance. milestone. broader gains for the region that under half a percent and some pretty food, beverages and telecoms lagging But we're really watching fronts, aren't And that stock underperformance looking This impending collapse of the France's ten year government debt showing both the risk of political limitations of what sort of regional That widening of bank bond spreads also now. they head to that no confidence vote on The far right, the far left expected to This is Bloomberg. Take a look at what we're watching when Bloomberg on Australia. third quarter GDP rising 3/10 of a The estimate was for a slightly stronger the year on year rating. The estimate consensus, I should say, So that sort of more subdued pace than We had that sort of expectation we did have some strong population as well. little bit lower ahead of the third not so much of an acceleration I guess could see from the RBA. cutting cycle here in Australia as well point and we are sort of looking to see as we've witnessed so far this morning much global volatility is coming into concerns as well. steady at 6472. affects, of course, some haven demand in South Korea, SRI. the how PMIs are coming in Japan because figure coming in at 50.1 for the month briefly dipping into contraction into expansion territory of 50.5 and you 149 level against the US dollar. given all of the volatility and the risk Korea. the broader markets right now, because about a percent against the US dollar, we saw in the overnight session. seeing a little bit of paring back some But really suffice it to say that we've assets, especially over night when we well as buy to the highest level since elections and the Cosby 200 volatility news that president use algo, decided to decision just hours later and the We are trying to gauge what the broader And right now we're hearing from developments in South Korea, saying that lifting the martial law order, saying they continue to expect political and in accordance with the rule of law. from the White House that really the advance of what the president of South Bloomberg Seoul bureau editor Danny So really, this is not going to sit well politicians around the world watching As I mentioned, the White House Now that the martial law decree has been Yeah. So. of events last night. the the Parliament will oppose it and I think what goes next is the future of Mark. there was always he was deeply unpopular impeachment. embarrassing reversal is only going to and call him to an impeachment. unfolds, whether it's going to be an impeachment or, you know, finding perhaps, if not cabinet, close allies know, leadership in soul on this floor What do we know about it? once it's reported to parliament. We haven't I mean, there's been calls that we've seen editorials in the local So we haven't heard an official word. could be a pretty quick move pretty quickly. to see which way it swings. Let's get more perspective on the Joining us now is Rachel Yong Lee, program and a 38 North. How do you expect Because we're now hearing from the could potentially asking soldiers to What happens next? I think. So as you noted, the main opposition step down. trying to sever ties with the president, the party trying to salvage what they So, you know, this is a developing Jung's days as president are numbered. parties calling on the president to putting an impeachment bill in motion. coming days. of then President Park and he and how How would the process of impeachment Well. don't think that he would. forward a put forward an impeachment And an impeachment bill requires a two National Assembly. party need to vote yes, and the bill So when that happens, Eunice suspended becomes the acting president. days to deliberate. apolitical, given that bipartisan safe to expect that the court cannot be And if Yoon is impeached by the have to have a presidential election impeachment is confirmed by the Rachel, we're now hearing in just about that the South Korean finance chief has place at 10 a.m. So there's clearly, clearly a flurry of sort of the the upshot of all of this But it sounds like in whichever period of political uncertainty to come, and an inevitable election might be that I'd rather have an extra. I think that we are in a period of You know, everybody was stunned. was followed by outrage over over the And the problem here for President Yoon all political parties, from the political spectrum. protests during the time that president, impeached. single day, hundreds of thousands of I think we might expect to see the same We're now hearing that Yoon's aides have reporting from Yonhap. developing story with a lot of changes willingly or through the due process We've spoken a little bit about sort of been from people that have watched the Right. Is that in any way this sort of shocking political move? potentially see more of? From the time that this situation began law decree to the time that he lifted, I was not lift it, despite the National law that would have then forced, you I was afraid that he might he may not So I think on that front, we can be turmoil. there is no ruling back. Right. bigger question to ask now is what are politics, sort of foreign policy, U.S. Are you expecting some saber rattling there's chaos in the South? It's kind of hard to tell because back being impeached and North Korea North big smile on its face. a lot of sarcasm. of, you know, articles and commentaries I mean, these days, North Korea doesn't Korea ever since Kim Jong un announced If we get reaction, you know, we get But I don't think that we should expect such as carrying out a major provocation You know, North Korea can just kind of Rachel Mealey Young These senior fellow and 38 North. perspective on the political moves market reaction with Bloomberg and live Mark, I mean, it's been really markets because the cost for the costs Korean one is now turning in positive is losses. you say. The most surprising one is the bond Why the Korean bond market is down obviously. People just all need to be out of all But if you think it was just last week, interest rate cut, rate cut, and they're in next year. stabilize quickly, there's always a to calm down investors. of the quickest, too, to recover as the But what people will be watching closely against the US dollar that some of that But the authorities especially will be yuan, how it performs against other They want to see stability in those that people are still convinced the So, yes, we're going to see a lot of value of the Korean equities, they've market for some time. fact that actually, on a long term compared to the rest of the world. noise, there's a lot of action by is possibilities in Korea here relatively But there's a reason that investors have Right. the VOC the second back to back one or global financial crisis. challenges the South Korea faces? I mean, the projections are that it's year. before your competitors, then of course And equity markets especially discount So if they get convinced that the Korean can to try and turn things around, you other markets in Asia and start to do a Of course, we're talking about a medium It's not all going to happen today, but It's the public. publicity. today. People will have a chance to reassess there relative value in those markets? story and the final, you know, ability of people optimistic that maybe similarities could tread that same path Does this set that expectation back a Well, Japan is obviously in a somewhat The Bank of Japan is fully expected to I'm probably even just in a couple of So that brings a little bit of a hurdle. that they can afford to they can engage And even if rates are rising, it's going going to be about the max we're going to So that's something that most company is yen is stabilizing as well at a So Japanese companies, I think that the forties on a long term basis That makes markets as well. companies if we see 120 in terms of probably not prepared for and that happen just yet. relative situations, Korean interest going up. it's time to switch back to Korea. Cranfield here with a look at Korean We have more ahead on the Asia trade. Take a look at what we're watching when how Australian bonds are faring as well. seeing some modest losses, down about This is, of course, a market that has highs there, and that's the trajectory well. through just in the last 15 minutes or Growth missing estimates in the third Clearly still some pressure when it that cost of living crisis as well. months with her two September. Book Australia a government report I've this does it do anything other than kind seeing a lot of households and a lot of Look, this is a big mess for these They were expected to be 0.5 and 1.1 for Instead, we ended up with zero points So, you know, those are big misses. growth for about a year for Australia in much of what you would expect to see at And you saw that from the Treasurer Jim He said that this is this proves that think and basically the only thing that this point is public spending. They contributed about 0.6% of GDP and than in a per capita recession, as it genuine recession. Well, they're going to come under a lot cuts forecast at this point. pushing back earlier expectations of a But if these numbers continue in this there will be more pressure on the RBA economy and avoid a hard landing for the And perhaps, you know, more implications where we will see an election being What's the situation here when it comes can kind of, they go into that vote? is really going hard on this idea of the As I said, it's been six quarters in a capita. in a tough position because they had cut ahead of the election due by May And the way things are looking, they're So that combined with weak growth and very much money in an election campaign government because there's already large that does put extra pressure on them. might be that potentially this will another look at an earlier rate cut But at this stage it's pretty much all Glenn Beck, Australia Government More ahead on the Asia trade. Take a look at some of the big moves in Of course, we have the cast B, losing And some of those big movers at the falling the most in four months post months as well, We continue to see the index, as you can see right there This as the South Korean president decision. local media that the president's aides And you can see the biggest shock on the than a percent as well. importance when it comes to global exporters very closely. down more than 10% at the moment. as well, from TV Chosun saying that the leave the party. coming out globally as well with Prime right now, saying that there's they're a strong interest and there's nothing Korea. speaking at the moment are saying that South Korea's internal affairs. Secretary Blinken in the U.S., talking Korea very closely and that they are lifted. half percent at the moment as Japanese U.S. But really, Heidi, is all about this How they're reacting to the volatility towards potentially an impeachment opposition party, according to local Right. Sherry. does happen, if it gets reported to from there it could be only 24 hours At the same time, we're also here senior aides are offering to resign en citing sources at the presidential We've seen that international reaction Blinken saying that they're closely They expect political disagreements to rule of law. developments in Korea. we'll be seeing that convention of well. that. it comes to current assets, as well as across Greater China.