ch [music] [music] ch ch [music] [music] d [music] Mommy, dad is home hey he's home he's home [music] hey dad let me [Applause] n be I 'm so sick . Hey , it's the banana fish. Dad, let me feed you. Let me go with you. Let's go play. Let's go play chicken . Your brother will marry me. I won't marry him. Let's marry him. [music] That's right, baby. It's so clear, I'm sorry mom H , I'm so young , I'm tired of chicken feet, let's avoid the girl, I'm right [music] [music] Tay yeah I'm okay with this BT Give me a piece to eat, let's eat, let's go, let's go. Let's go let's go let's make some medicine, let's go let's go. That's right. But you threw it too close, so it's rough. What's the point of doing that? The [music] people eat the chickens. Let's take all the bananas from B to feed the chickens. then [music] oh my dad finished it [music] [music] so much thanks C [music] Uh oh have n't you finished feeding me already ? Okay, Dad, I'm done. Here's the chem. This guy is too loud and makes me cry. It's okay, Dad, don't worry too much. It's okay. It's okay. I think our house has too much coffee. Or is it me? Go to the barn to get a little bit, then bring it to sell. Then I'll give it to you and your mother. I'll give it to you. It's so fragrant. What about my brother? Let me go sell eggs tomorrow. I 'll go to my mother's house and then take it home. Let your child come with me tomorrow so we can apologize to mom. Mom must be very sad today. I'm here. You and your child should just stay at home. I have a way to remember. Bring some of our eggs for mom to eat too, okay? Mom must be down there. Mom doesn't have any eggs to eat. I just remembered that I have to go pack the vegetables. My sister and I. It's delicious. Mom, go pack the vegetables. [Music] The stuff is still hot. [Music ] ] ch then ch then ch ch ch me you're here I'm here I'm not your brother you and where are you going I'll do it now I'll do it Honey I 'm going to pick up eggs like picking each other up Okay, after scanning, I'll go to Japan and live here . I'll go get it now. I'll go. I'll leave my family here so you can take it all and sell it. I'll go sell the bamboo paper and liquidate this candy paper. It's so loose. This song is calling but I'm sure it's still up, I'm sure I can see you here to see if it's okay. I went to see this morning. There are a lot of this element. There 's a lot like this. This season is still a season. It's crowded, but not a lot like this, this egg smells like me. This egg smells like this, can you hear the sound? This is big, how big is this? Someone has this beautiful, white egg. T just came in. I've given birth so much, this is so much, I probably need 20 gifts xc here just how many, so beautiful white, mom, I know where all the hens have gone, I don't see them going over here, over here, over here The dachshund Snail mom, come on up here, these fruits are incubating like this one, I'll do the same as you. This beautiful machine, it only has a lot of people like this. Wow, this one can still incubate a lot, hey, this one. I can take care of you so much, please let me go, I have a girl here, I'm sick, please cover me, let me hold the hat for you, I'm sick, Miss C, my brother ordered this so I'll go Trust me x th The house is going to fly, brother and I, let's go. Look at you, it's almost full. Next, our house is screwed together here, snailed here, let's pick up this book, right? Hey, is this hen spoiled by eggs? I'm sure it's It has a snail mother and it's still up I think maybe this is it maybe it's three hens this one isn't safe yet it's still not full yet Or is it rough th try it m is it okay he's baiting me bait chh how much are you waiting for this little one I'm big I'm a big one okay 200 of these [music] take this fish machine a couple of times override this position it's left alone wx looks nice put it here then put it here [Applause] [Applause] let 's see C give it to mom [Applause] I'll give it a little tomorrow and I'll bring a few and it's beautiful [Applause] [music] so much thanks to ch he probably needs 100 ch's too Oh good night I'm so waiting [Applause] Let me explain to you that I'm dead and in a year Oh, if you get a chicken into my house, I'm sure you'll get one if this place needs one, surely that's it . Okay, this class is done. I remember, this class is done. Okay, this pulp, enough for these three fruits to cook. I'll let you know. Remember to get the fruit to bring back to mom. I remember. It seems like it's mom eats eggs eats eggs but this one goes to the chicken coop to choose the sound with the egg yes I guess I have to go now but if you're worried then just tell me I don't have a way to solve it I'll go, just be gentle with mom. I know. A few days ago, I was rude to mom , so she must have been acting like I was afraid that she wouldn't be nice. I thought C tried TH to be my B. Yes, let me go. I'll go. Try to control your emotions, please go ahead. It's a bit late . Be careful with your children. Okay, I'll just talk to mom gently. I know. Don't bother your sister. I'll buy it. Come back with medicine for your child. Look at me, then go away. It's 15,000 to 20,000 to 2,000 VND for a nice new one. Ladies and gentlemen, elastic sheets are only available from 50,000 VND each. [Applause] please. blanket like that, what did I get? What is it? Buzzing shop [music] Oh my gosh, boss, boss, yes, boss, yes , make money for TH [Applause] [Applause] hey [Applause] already home I'm right here, take it all [music] [music] I'll run out here Oh yeah, take it away [music] where [music] [music] go for [music] [music] Bao There's a lot [music] Ba [music] [Applause] get the eggs, get the eggs Okay, okay , there's still a lot left, let's put 10 of them. Is it too late or is it BN to sell ? Haven't they sold them all yet? Where can I buy the tomatoes? They're all sold out. It's very light on the wallet. Today, I'm out of tomatoes again. [Applause] sour and eat medicine [music] [Applause] here, somewhere , wherever you want, you can buy them. I just bought it and asked if there was any more vermicelli . Mom, I'm here to apologize, you don't have to apologize anymore and go home [music] I'm sitting here and I'm sorry again, Mom, I'm sorry Mom, I'm thinking about it now, but I'm still your child. I'm really mean to you, mom, I'm sorry, Mom. Ok, I think I'm hot-tempered. Hai ho, then I'm really hot-tempered. I'm so sorry, mom. It's okay to know I'm wrong. Mom, I'll go get some water for you to drink. Oh [music] ] Mom, please drink some water, beautiful baby, oh my wife, won't you come down? Today my wife is sick and my child has just come out with a high fever and is sick . Yes, I bought it, Mom, so I'm planning to make M this year. Yes, I'm also starting to move. Oh, Mom, do you have this ? Today, the chicken is a mother for the eggs. There are some eggs coming for Mom. Mom, I'll get them. Please let me know , Mom, please give me permission [music] I'll go home and ask Ca. Look, I'll take you all down there to stay with Mom. Mom, I'm older. Mom, please allow me to stay in Xe to gather. In addition, you know that I'm also here now. I'm married to a new husband, so L doesn't have much to do. It's okay. It's fine, my dear. We're grown up and we want to live independently. We're so young. I'm afraid that meeting you will be difficult. Okay, I'm already late. I'm going to be late. I would like to go home . My mother-in-law and children are at home. I have to bring the medicine home. Please ask my mother's permission to go home. When can I buy her permission? hb today H is strange, please come down. Thank you, mom, I swear [ music] Mom, oh, I'm home. I'm home. Dad's home . Dad's back. Oh, we're so home. Dad's home. Hello, dad. Dad's home, look at his part. I've been gone for a long time. Have you come back? I haven't heard from you yet. Mom didn't say much. I'll go apologize to mom. Mom already apologized, so I'll leave. Come over Let B first let B how w Oh I'm so bored you're so hot let me make some medicine for you to drink okay let's drink as medicine first then my dad and my mom put a bandage on my forehead to make it less delicious [music] it's so delicious Please leave me there. Look at your mother, what's wrong? It's okay. It 's okay. It's not painful. It's okay. Dad, what did you buy? Here, here, here, here. Be good. BT for dad. [music] CH for mom. Han, drink first. Let Han drink later. Hey, hey, look at mommy, look at mommy, what's wrong? Pha d B [music] that's it, okay, then give me back the tube first, give me the tube later. Here, here, here, why is it so good Mommy, baby, here's a little baby, then take it away and let it go out for a bit [Applause] ch [music] PH, it'll fall again Oh, you're rough Morning [Applause] ch's ok An, sit well, sit well, I'm done, I'm done , I'm done , you're sitting there, I'm almost done , I'm almost done, ch ch [music] [music] P [Applause] ch ch take me home I'm done, you're home. Yes, let's have breakfast. An I've got some left over to go to bed. I've finished cooking breakfast. I've finished cooking. Then M went to sleep early in the morning. Oh, you cooked so well. Cooked normally, so delicious. Finished cooking. ah You cook well but don't you have anything to give me? Thank you, it's delicious, isn't it miserable? Your brother, I'll let you have it, then go eat. Is it delicious? Just eat in the morning. I'm happy when I cook. It's been a long time . Yes, I have something to worry about. Come in now. There's nothing new to do here. I'm a family man. I want to go to the street to find a job and earn a little money. I need to pay for my family to take care of me and my children. If you want to go, then go. Now, there's nothing here to make money anymore. It'll probably be winter. I'll try to find a job and then have some income . Let's continue to eat. Eat. There's a chance I'll finish eating later and I'll go look for it. If I find it, I'll come back and you'll be full. I'll go to work. I'll stay at home. If you're working too hard, just wait. I 'm home, I'll work with you Yes, eat so I can sleep a little longer, I 'll sleep a little longer, I'm going to work, don't work too hard, I know, you're the same at home, too. Yes , B. Give me this piece of egg. Give me this piece of egg B here I go take it I go take it I go eat it then give me this piece of egg Let's go to work, let's go to work. I'll probably have to go right now. If I find a job, I'll have to work for a few days before I come back to visit you and your mother . Yes, it's an unpredictable long road. I'll go. Try your best, okay? Remember me, remember to take care of your health. Remember, you and your children eat well. Please remember to be good. Dad, go earn some money. When you have money, come home and take care of mom and dad. Please be careful. There are too many rocks in the slope . My family, Dad, I'm getting ready to go. I'm going now. Bye bye bye bye Bye bye bye . Hey , it's you too. I'm up here looking for whatever I can eat. I can't. My family doesn't have the conditions. I have to be next door, what money do I need? I can still live down the street in the future, I can't stay up here forever. I want to give the two of us a beautiful future . Oh, the money you've been talking about just now, I can't complain. I have to. The other x earns money for the mother and child's future. The future of the young child requires many conditions Please go ahead Mom and I remember to take care of your health I remember to take care of your health I remember you and I are coming too Yes I'm going to be nervous I'm going in a few days I'll be back yes Dad's gone Dad's gone [music ] [music] then I'll give it to you, it's delicious but I don't eat it [ __ ] the first guy [ __ ] when I go in there I'll lose my appetite and there's a phone call or something like that No Hello, you can rest assured that the two of you will be fine when working. You can rest assured. But how can the company catch me? Just rest assured, you have to worry about me working . I don't believe it anymore, these guys What's your age? Can you rest assured to do this or my younger brother can do it ok? An Rest assured where to run ? Then he passed quickly into the lane, quickly he passed there, where did he pass, he robbed me, he let me go, this guy, that guy, he flowed, where did he go, then he ran to the stream, then to the stream, then what happened? What's wrong with you? We'll take you to the hospital. Just go on a mission. What 's wrong with you? Why don't you ? If it doesn't, then it's like we have to take this guy away. You're on a mission. What's the matter? Hey , how much are you? [Applause] [music] [Applause] d [music] [Applause] ch [Applause] [music] [Applause] [Applause] [music] ] [music] [music] oh my friend, it's been a long time since I last saw you , how are you ? Why did I come in and see you hug me so weak? Let's just come here and drink water and here drink water and let's talk together. Let's do medicine. My friend, I've been away for two years and I'm bitter. Okay, you let it go. It's good to let it go , sister. Please give me two cans of water. [Music] How can I get caught by them? When I was on the way down, I saw two police officers arresting them. This is what I thought I was just a normal citizen, but when I heard those two concubines say that I went in and was not beaten by them. It's very difficult for you to park in there, my friend, and rob. Yes, it's very dangerous. I've touched them before and collided a bit, but it's very difficult for me to do business here, my friend. That CP is in the commune right. Here, my friend, it's very difficult for me to do business here. Go drink some water. my friend, water pipe [music] d you're stupid you 're you What are you doing? Oh I'm doing what I call a small business these days, I want to sell fruits, oranges, grapefruits, Lin Tinh Linh is already tangled, and I also have a few tree C Pearl that shack right now You just follow this gap there is a big road that can be driven by car Yes that's it a little I'll go see my wife in the shack Your wife's wife is on the shack Oh that's right Yes that's it I'll go up I asked if I had just come down from up here and was looking for a job, so let's go. Yes, which Vietnamese are you looking for? V Vang. In that commune, there are some construction workers who are building houses. Go up there and ask, it seems like they are recruiting that person HT V Yes, you should go up there and see if you work hard, you can probably do it. Wait a minute. I'm just going to watch the game. It's getting late. I'll go first. Friend Let's go and take a look. Let's sit down and have a drink. We haven't seen each other in a long time. Okay, my friend's been down for a long time. Now I have to go pick you up. Okay, how about you go? I'll go up and see you later, V. Me let's go [music] [music] Yes come on [music] ah this is the orange house, fake brother, I hear that and say it's me. My house has an orange hill, are you sure ? C, are we large? Is there you? Hey, let's go in and get a drink . How do you know that I have an orange hill? Well, today I met your husband down there and he said there's an orange hill. No one has seen it yet. Haven't seen the water pipe yet ? Let me see the water, but I know your owner. Ah, that guy. My friend who used to be very close to me. Nga Xua Hah Em. We went out a while ago. We met and talked. She went . After the cam was sold, he told me to come and see. Hey, what's the matter? My husband said he found a job there, but he doesn't know if he can believe it. I met him in the morning and talked. He also introduced her to work as a construction assistant, but I don't know if she can do it. There are many people down there. Her job below is very good In general, if you work hard, there are a lot of things you can do to earn money . My husband was talking to me and said he was really beaten by them, but I don't think it's okay. He probably still went to work, so why was he beaten? So I don't know, so I said that after they left, I saw them robbing me and I got arrested by the police. After I caught them, I robbed them and then they beat me. I think it's okay . It's okay, but the robbers If I touch them, it will be a bit difficult for them to do business on that land. I hope it's you. Yes, you. That's it. Yes, they go to the lake and they're very active. Let 's see. Come on, give me a drink and let me see. Yes, let's drink some water, let's drink some water, let's see, let's see, let's go [Applause] watch the whole thing [Applause] from one side to the other to the next to this side Yes, it's a lot and the residue is also beautiful, I'll give it to you Let's try it. Let's leave it here. This orange is clean and doesn't spray. Yes, it's delicious. It's sweet . Okay , this orange is big and sweet. You can take it to the market. Yes, if you buy it, I won't discuss it because I can't discuss it all. Well, let's see. If I can buy it, I will buy it and take it home for groceries and sell it at the market. If I bring these bunches to the city to sell, they will like it very much. I'm sure it will be worth the price. An Remember, it's big and beautiful. Can you go downstairs first? I'll go take a look around. Yes, just go sightseeing and we'll talk later. Yes , I'll see when I get home. I'll see what it's like. It's big and beautiful. How can I sell it? Look, the hill is beautiful and the fruit is big. Give me a certain price and I'll buy it for you. I've never sold oranges before. Let's see the grave. Let's see how much this place costs. Yes, follow this place. As you estimate, it's only about three tons if you want to attack, three tons. If you want to attack, then I'll hire someone, minus the hiring fee, then it's about 15 million. If you sell it, I'll try. Buy me 15 million, can you give me a little more ? It's about 1 million or 2 million. Yes, I calculated it in that range. If you can get that price, I'll try to help you buy it and buy it X But because I'm still stupid. If you agree to sell it, I'll take out the paperwork and deposit about 5 million in advance, then when it's sold, I'll fake it for you. The decided to sell. If you decide to sell, I'll take out the paper and make the paperwork, now I'll write and say I'll deposit 5 million here, and when I come to the place, I'll fake it for you and we'll sign here and we'll be done. Hey , that's it. Sign me here . What day is it today? Is it 28 or 28? Okay, I'll close it and here again. That's it. When will you come to pick me up? Then I'll pretend to finish it. How about that amount? Yes, I'll go here now. I'll give you 5 million first. When will I wash it? I'll give you the other amount. I'll give you 6 9 4 6 3 48 7 6 4 23 7 4. I'll have 1 million left over. Do you have an extra 1 million? I brought it home just now. I must have forgotten it. You just need it again. Or should I just take it and deposit it? I'll get it when I get it later. Then the papers are there. Let's go Then, when will you finish holding it? Vat Then, I'll give you the rest. I'll take it from here. When will you release Tho An thh to N for me? Yes, I'll go home. Yes, I'll go home. Yes, go home. When are you going to get there? I'm sure it's about a week or so. I'm going to go up, I'm going to pick up the groceries, I'll pay. Yes, I'm going home. Yes, I'll go home . [Music] h [Applause] Let's do it Why do n't you come here ? music] [music] so [music] [music] [music] ch d d [music] [music] ch then you're saying it can be cut, then tomorrow I'll print it so the other guy can pour some Ginger bag, go away, crab, what's the name? This bag over here, this green bag, yes, this bag [music] Hey, what kind of food should I buy? Are you a picker or not just learning the job? When you go to the market to eat, the food says it's delicious, but it's not very good. [Music] This product isn't very good, so let's see if it's sold or not. This product is also standard, but [the music] is standard. Do you understand? If CT comes out, cut it, cut it and you'll be lost. Ok babe. That's right That's right, that's right [music] This morning I kept wanting to tell you that he's 15. How many more do you have left? Pay 10 a piece or something like that . Would you sell 15 pounds? [music] [music ] music] ch's three houses two [Applause] ch Happi here ch ch ch B, B, B , come on, go on, go on, go, go , go, go , go, An, this time T is a professional little shrimp with several billions [music] ] This shrimp head is so big. This shrimp head is so big. It's got two heads. Okay, I'll ask where I'm sleeping. I won't break it . If you pick me up, I won't introduce it to you. It's nice and tough. I'll give it to you. Dad, I'll take it away. I don't want to introduce you to beautiful skin, where to go? Guess the way to my house, I told you that I was going. I haven't gotten the ginger yet, but I've already left the ginger house , so I told you, I told you before . Is there any L? Just ask An, but tomorrow he'll say she sold fish, she sold it to someone else, she sold it to you , it's the same everywhere, his brothers . Oh , take care of the cake , that 's it What is the poem ? na na na Oh my god It's my year oh my god I'm black [music] here I come mother [music] W K hey here I'm grandma V here I'm here this year she's not good last year So here I am TH is just now Oh mom, sit here, come up here , move your legs like this , ask if he has this much , can he have this [music] and that's it , chicken, chicken, chicken , little stork b bean branch [music] Bamboo can be beaten or not, then here is a clear red bag. Just beat it a little and it's done. Please be polite . [ Applause] now it's over. I'll let you go, Mom, I'll go for you and I'll be right next to you, I'll be so sad When will it be high? I'll be here in 3 years, please go to Mr. Gon, why don't you come back? Why will you come back? Mrs. Vinh, let her come here. you just go [music] It's okay, let's play this game, shoot me and eat. Hung broke the leak, okay, don't let me go again , let's break lxs, I'll leave it at home someday, I'll come down tomorrow, I'll call tomorrow to watch [music] ] Hey , I'm here , please wash me . here it is I'm B right now I don't know what my machine is worth. Second hung and hung then the other B recorded [music] B, what's the point of fighting? Don't let me sign and fight . C I can do two today too Day Is it too sticky? hey 7 need to be here to pour it out Let's say it's Mr. Ho for half an hour to come back my name is hai 781 already Oh my god stop it [music] oh 5000 please Buy Buy 5000 grandchildren Du 10 sister my birthday cake is ready ch Ah I have it, I want to give my child a chair to die. [music] How much is your brother? I 'll buy him a chair. Yes , I'll give him a chair . [music] okay, okay ? THT t phat ui phat phat ui ugh [music] ch chh die [music] wait there right [music] mom I'm home I'm home I'm home then I've got some glasses for you as a surprise oh But but what is this? It's my birthday today, don't you remember? Oh, today is your birthday. I need to make it clear that you forgot your sandwich. Is this your number? [sound] music] I want you to come back here, just spend a lot, it's so delicious. Did you call your grandmother today? Hey, my dad's home. He's home. Oh, are you coming to play? Mrs. Yes, let's come together. Oh, my dear. Hey dad, I miss you Dad, I'm here, I bought you a cake [music] I'll keep it in my mother's house Oh, come on, I'm here, I'm home from work, brother. I was here the other day . I bought my orange garden, I went to work, and I sold it. My friend. I sold it. You're my friend. I sold it for 15 million. But it will take a few days for you to give it to someone. I can get on the canvas. Tomorrow, my grandmother is here. Let's snack a little for her. I'm afraid to bring someone to eat. Tomorrow, I'll be fine. Tomorrow, I'll snack a little for her. Yes? Well, today my friend said he was beaten. What's wrong? It's okay, brother, just go across the street. The army police officers are catching thieves. I've got a little help, so you can just let it go because I'm okay. I'm okay. That's good. I'm okay. Just say it. In general, helping the police and soldiers is like that. I'm happy because one or two boats is fine, but what 's the point? I remember doing that again, it's very dangerous. Dude, have you found a job yet? Ah, today If I go down, if I find a job, I'll probably do it tomorrow morning. I've been working for two days. I'm sure you already said that. Let's go, let 's make some rice for my grandmother to eat. We'll call her to eat together. No, I'm not here yet. Give me to Mr. B and go pick me up for dinner, Mrs. B. Dad, I've been gone for two days. I miss you so much. I miss you so much. I'll eat too. Let's eat. Let's all eat. Let's eat rice, everyone, let's eat a little rice. I took the cake and asked for it. I still remember when you left. Wow, what a beautiful cake . I'm here for my mother. My mother is here, waiting for me to wear the hat. Lift up and suck, please let me have your hat so I can bite it at night . Okay, you should plug it in first, not there. Yes, it looks like it's in the back, plug it in first, let me plug it in here. Happy 18th birthday, damn. Mom , I 'm here I'm praying Let's blow so I'm going to blow Let's eat rice, grandma, let's eat rice, grandma, let's eat rice, I'm eating rice, chong eat, scold me , this piece belongs to Han's mother. Thank you, this is Han's. Thank you, Nga, eat it. Mrs. Yes, eat a lot, ma'am. Yes, please, I'll ask my family, please, please eat a lot, and you're full, and you're full. You and your children are delicious , please eat . meat, low, low, come if they pay all the money. I think I'm going to buy fish x machine. Have you thought about this? Let's walk to work all like this. You eat cake. I also want to have it. a means of transport to make it easier for him to travel. Occasionally, when his grandmother comes to play, he is told to come up and walk less and more. That's right. Yes, come and eat when you're full. Grandma also eats. Yes, full. I think that's probably it. Let me go home for one night and then I'll go to work. Oh my son, are you going to leave early? Yes, I have to get up early to go to work tomorrow. I can't do it as a wife. If I want to go home, I can still come back in the afternoon or evening to eat a lot. It just ate the cake and the cake eating contest. Yes, I've eaten the birthday cake. Let's cut it Let's eat the cake, I'll cut it for you and let you have it. Here's mine. I'll cut it for you to be shy . Oh, Quan's brother lost a wire. He said he didn't have it. Three years later, I'll buy you a really big one. Here, this, this string is mine Here, here too, here, here, here, mine, here, here, Here, I'm this, give me another spoon . I invite you to be shy. Yes, cut the baby again, I'll go give it to Mrs. K, Mrs. So here it is. This is mine. Thank you. Yes, let Mommy cut it for Han. Be good. Let Momma cut it for Han. Cut Han a piece. Oh, this is another baby. This is yours. This is Han's . Han's. This is Han V's, grandma, eat it, Mrs. Yes, please invite your grandmother, let 's eat, grandma. Yes, I'll eat it, too . It's my first time eating cake. Every year I eat cake, I'll buy you one. The person who is too young to eat the leaves should eat it, please eat it, it's delicious