[narrator] This is the biggest predator the great white shark. It can reach six metres in length A supreme hunter equipped and an arsenal of super senses. An encounter with this apex predator is the stuff of nightmares for most, an experience only few Adventure Ocean Quest. An encounter with the world With divers who become They work together with scientists Deep under the surface of the water... without a sound and without a breath. Adventure in the depths of the sea, the likes of which Three extraordinary divers to undertake the experiment of a lifetime. They're heading of one of the most feared predators the Island of Guadalupe. This dedicated team of experts into the realm of the great white shark. Their aim is to contribute into the true nature They'll go face-to-face Their only protection: years of experience They want to challenge the popular myth I think what we do that are able to change people's opinion. [Christian speaking French] [interpreter] He's the master of the sea. He's at the top of the food chain This is almost the top predator and it has the myth behind it. I'm more afraid to live than to meet sharks in the water. [narrator] San Diego, California. The expedition prepares on board of the Islander. Amongst the crew members, three of the best free divers The Belgian Frederic Buyle, former world record holder that has now The Canadian record holder And world champion managed to go below the 127-metre mark. They're ready to begin their journey Highly specialised camera equipment to capture a meeting between man and beast The isolated volcanic Island of Guadalupe lies 250 kilometres a day's journey by boat. [speaking French] [narrator] Time to discuss Cameraman Christian Petron as a renowned underwater [indistinct conversation] [narrator] Eventually, appears on the horizon. A harsh, barren rock Only a handful of fishermen Fur and elephant seals enjoy and were found in huge numbers Then the greed of human hunters The hunters brought goats with them, which soon eradicated Fortunately, the rocky cliffs gave shelter and northern elephant seals. Over the last century, their population Today, the island is a strictly protected Only one hunter is still allowed the great white shark. The new thing in Guadalupe There are more sharks, In South Africa we need and spend hours and hours Apparently, there's more than in the big bay, And at some point, So that's the main difference. The other difference is that than in South Africa, say that the sharks than in South Africa, So that could be not in our favour. 'Cause it means the shark could spot us from very deep water In my opinion, that won't happen because the great white shark and he never takes risks to get prey. So he will first come around us to see what we are and how we react. So I don't think we will be But as a lot of people told us that, we will be very careful [narrator] But the crew The Mexican marine biologist -Hey. -[Fred] Fine, and you? [Fred] Good. Good condition. Flat sea. No waves. Comfortable. [narrator] For five months a year, to conduct his field research. Hey. Good to see you. [narrator] Mauricio specialises of great white sharks and hopes the free divers about their natural behaviour ...and it looks like pregnant. [narrator] Will they perceive Will they attack? They have pictures All right, guys, [narrator] But this experiment Safety diver Luke Tipple He has constructed that will be suspended around It will serve as a launching pad and will grant protection that will remain If you are on the boat, [narrator] Luke will only be able to watch The rest is up to them. Diving without a cage or protective gear Captain Shane Slaughter shares [Shane] One thing I would add if you see them down deep like they're looking up at you, Also, if they're not swimming the shark is here and they swim they're eyeing you for some reason. And that's one thing It's an indicator one of them's so just watch for that. [Luke] Anything additional Other than recommending you guys -No. [narrator] Diving cages are used across To lure sharks into the vicinity blood and fish are usually used as bait. It provides a cheap thrill for tourists... since the blood and carcasses provoke and trigger a feeding frenzy. Coolest sandwich I've ever seen. [Luke] The other way. [Luke] I'm very pleased with the cage. I designed it specifically to offer both and to be able to be pushed away Great white sharks attack from deep cover. You pretty much always see in the shadow. Being able to push our cage offers less places for the shark I communicate with them with my stick. So, I use a metallic banging to, uh... and then we use signals like &quot;two sharks&quot; If I'm saying &quot;three sharks&quot; that means that there's one more that they need to be aware of. That's one of my primary jobs down there, other than just looking after is making sure that I'm seeing which can be an issue. That extra 30, 40, 50 feet of visibility between there being two sharks You're definitely gonna get It's not too bad. [narrator] Paramedic Tiffany Poettcker Should a diver get injured she may well be and she is only too aware of the risks I try to think, what could be You know, we're a few hours and... we would have to meet them a couple hours if this were, like, worst-case scenario. So worst-case scenario, Say a wound were to be you'd put the tourniquet above that. You're cutting off circulation so that's your last-ditch effort. You wanna save the limb but it's life over limb, so... Hopefully I won't have to work, but I know there's a good chance [narrator] Everything is set Will the sharks come? How long will it take before they show up? Then the crew spots a shadow in the water. -[narrator] A massive shadow. The shark, perhaps, but not us. -Yeah, it's just about four metres, huh? -But... thick. [narrator] Time for cameraman and his team to get ready. [device beeps] [speaking French] [interpreter] As far as I'm concerned, a diver using is the same as a free diver. He doesn't make any noise A scuba diver using compressed air and disturbs the sharks. Like I just said, a free diver and a diver using are more or less the same because they don't make bubbles, [narrator] But using a rebreather Should the proportion of oxygen the diver will fall asleep Everyone knows exactly what they're doing. This experiment has been But now, all bets are off. No one knows exactly what will happen once the three free divers Dr Mauricio Hoyos is watching If you are diving, you have if you make these bubbles, When we were diving yesterday, and the shark wasn't really close to us, it was away from us. We wanted to take pictures, [gurgles] with the bubbles. But with this, with free diving, So I think that the shark [narrator] Then, As soon as the divers get into the water, the shark that a moment ago These huge hunters can materialise even in the crystal-clear waters Yet another reason Pierre searches the depths Perhaps he can attract the shark? Some free divers are able to reach in the open ocean and stay underwater But these are record-breaking dives. In this situation, they're unlikely and may stay there for up to five minutes. This incredible ability is a result and incredible self-control Suddenly they catch Has the shark returned The shadow doesn't approach them. William decides to turn the tables How will the predator react? The shark doesn't accept the challenge. Once again, he vanishes The divers can't get anywhere This killer could make short work with just a single bite, He decides how close they can come. There are no signs of aggression, Against all expectations, has exposed the great whites [Pierre] If you go in front of them, so they take a distance. It's called a security distance. For every animal, they have With the big sharks, it's new for them There's gonna be a meeting [narrator] Dr Mauricio Hoyos and explains his research strategy. He fits sharks with transmitters that allow him to track Last year, I set three receivers And I tagged the sharks with pingers. So with these pingers, you can note I tagged the sharks in October November, December, January, and suddenly they disappeared. With other kind of satellite transmitters, that the sharks can go as far as Hawaii. And also to one spot between Hawaii and they remain there And then they come again So with that, you'll be able to see how they predate on them, because you can see [Mauricio] Exactly. when the shark is chasing the seal. Maybe I will be able to see if they are hunting together, that the white sharks can hunt together. You think we can help you-- and our cameras, Yes, I think that it would be to identify the shark. So if you could look such as birthmarks, or scars, or even the pigmentation patterns and the tail, that would be great. If you could take pictures of left Also, if you can take footage, or even see their behaviour underwater, because it's really different than when they are deep below the surface. Maybe we can try to... And we... that's what I need now it's gonna be impossible. [wind whistling] [narrator] The next day brings bad news: Conditions deteriorate rapidly. The shark experiment grinds All of a sudden, the wind changed to this direction here, It's cold. -[Luke] Hey! Fred! [narrator] The divers get out [indistinct conversation] [narrator] The waves threaten to throw It has to be lifted. The paramedic has to deal Pierre collided with a jellyfish I need a medic. -Oh, sorry. Dangerous, the sea, huh? So dangerous. It's a sting right on the lip. White shark, huh. Jellyfish! [narrator] As the storm intensifies, It has to be lifted. Think we're going to the south end [narrator] There's no time to lose. They stand no chance of finding Wind, waves, and currents But Captain Slaughter has other ways We're gonna try to actively here for the next couple days. Real similar in the way We basically use the side-scan sonar, anywhere from, you know, maybe 10 pounds So it's real easy for us to see So we'll sweep around and if we see we'll go ahead [sonar clicking rhythmically] Okay, you guys ready to go find sharks? [narrator] But while the team Pierre has found a distraction: a young storm petrel They used to sit on the lights and they come on the boat. He's very small. He's called a frigate in French. And he's wet. And he seems to be not in good form, huh? So he needs help. And he can't fly. You see? He wants to move, so we try to help him. To feed him and we will see, huh? Now... we go in a hot place Look at him. We have to feed him. It could be fun to try. [narrator] Pierre takes especially since the wind and waves into deeper waters There's no way for the divers It's frustrating, I don't think sharks wanting to eat human beings. I think that they're active and they're constantly hunting. If you present yourself in a similar place, time, they will probably... taste you. But, you know, I mean, I've been Been in the water they seem to be more curious [narrator] There is a possible lead in the search tracking down their main prey animals. As inhospitable for some creatures, it's paradise Northern elephant seals It has saved them at the hands of greedy hunters. Elephant seals Bulls can grow and weigh in at up to 3 1/2 tonnes. Despite their ungainly appearance on land, they are adept underwater able to pursue fish and octopuses down to an astonishing depth But out in the open ocean, This seal has been the recent victim It's a sure sign that the sharks are back Blood traces show where But it will survive. [bellowing] Many seals in this colony They're not entirely Their blubber acts like a shield, not only against the cold, of the great white shark. Christian Petron and the crew get ready The injured elephant seal has renewed And where better to search for sharks than right next to the colonies They explore the waters near the shore to witness the surprising elegance It's the first time we will be diving so it's a great start. Elephant seals are waiting, and we are waiting for them [chattering] [narrator] Using small boats, to the forbidding rocky coastline. Underwater, they're quickly greeted They show no fear and approach They are the rarest and strictly protected. The team are probably the first humans for a very long time. The elephant seals are less feisty, Perhaps they see the divers as animals and they wouldn't be far from wrong. We are like them When they're breathing at the same time we were looking at each other and then putting the head down, It's very funny. Because we are like them. So, same kind of animals. Maybe we have longer fins [narrator] But still, the team in the shallow coastal waters. Where have they gone? Giving up is not an option, to check their equipment Then, an unexpected visit. The Mexican Navy is suddenly on board armed to the teeth. Christian Petron is alarmed. What do the soldiers want? Could this spell the end The boat is searched from top to bottom, the team's papers checked meticulously No one is allowed in these waters Guadalupe is one of the best-protected Everyone is nervous. They anxiously await [speaking Spanish] [interpreter] Well, we're the Coast Guard, and illicit activities like shark fishing. Sometimes it's necessary to check people or magazine who are filming, like you, [narrator] Everything is in order. A sigh of relief ripples The soldiers leave them The divers quickly take advantage They couldn't afford to waste This break in the bad weather But still no sharks. It is a frustrating strain Pierre tries to raise Perhaps splashing on the water's surface something ordinary swimmers in shark-infested waters at all costs. The three free divers work together. Each one covers the back of another. Should any sharks materialise, Success. A single great white appears Just one of the free divers while the others watch his back. The cautious tactic pays off. Other sharks join the first. Including a surprise visitor. A fur seal brazenly dives He's so quick and agile that the sharks They have to rely on surprise attacks Gradually, the sharks appear They become increasingly curious But neither divers nor sharks [Fred] If you want to see you need to see how it behaves If you start to use a cage or devices, [narrator] Getting this close to take detailed photographs which Mauricio Hoyos But the divers have to remain vigilant. The shark in front of them The shark's strategy of attack usually [Shane] William! William! -[narrator] Will has a lucky escape. Out here, just one moment of unwariness Tiffany keeps a wary eye on the divers, Meanwhile, Dr Mauricio Hoyos tries to take He wants to fit radio transmitters from the safety of a floating platform. It forms a crucial part of his research and can give vital clues to decode The white sharks, they feed on seals If they don't control those animals, these animals are gonna be In the Sea of Cortez, because now there are no bull sharks and those sea lions are a big problem Actually, my captain is a fisherman. He told me that it's a big problem and they can see all the fish bitten And there are hundreds of them, because the three different species of But we have hundreds of them because no sharks in the Sea of Cortez. [narrator] Facing up to a great white requires an extraordinary amount Showing panic or fear It's even possible that sharks can perceive the electrical impulses [Fred] The great white is a hunter. Great white always arrive in the shadow, and so you have to be very, very aware And if you establish eye contact The problem is when you don't have And every time I've been a bit surprised it was because I didn't see [narrator] Again and again, and swim straight at the divers. They turn away only at the last moment. Every year, about 60 or 70 shark attacks But in 2009 only about five of these Gradually, the divers manage to get It allows them to build up an invaluable of the predators for Dr Hoyos' research. Shark science has been turned For a long time, it had been assumed in coastal waters to hunt But with the help it has become clear that they undertake of several thousand kilometres. During these long-distance migrations, they tend to stay at depths But so far, scientists have only near the water's surface. The rest of the sharks' lives It was great. [narrator] Time for the divers They have to. Staying in the water too long could mean [interpreter] Boy, that was great! There was a big 4 1/2 meter. I can show you the photo. Nee-nee-nee-nee-nee, whoa! The last minute, it turned. It was taking the opportunity And-- Because you don't see it So it's really coming at you at, like, 50, 60 centimetres from you. [expels breath] Turns. It's really nice. Very nice. Really interesting. It... she... As soon as I went Sorry, she started. [chuckles] Like me, you know. So... [narrator] The success has given the team enough confidence to attempt the next stage to tag the sharks underwater. Since Mauricio's own efforts to fit this could be a vital chance to get this crucial part He's installed receivers in three bays around Guadalupe. When a shark fitted with they register the signal. The receivers will be retrieved again Mauricio hopes this data will support are the most prolific seal hunters since they need the extra energy If his assumptions are correct, the receivers will have predominantly not those of youngsters and males. The transmitters are attached Fred, Will, and Pierre that attaches the transmitter to the barb. Transmitters are very expensive, and losing any would mean To penetrate the tough shark skin, It takes long years of experience to get the aim But it is a risky undertaking. No one knows how the sharks will react. Pierre seems relaxed, Hey, he's over there, waiting for you. He knows that you're coming. [Luke] Behind you, I know they know what they're doing. Pretty sure, too, you know, it gets a little bit so I hope they know where that line is. But I'm sure they'll be fine. [narrator] Mauricio Hoyos is hoping to fit a good number of transmitters. Is that another one? [narrator] But more sharks in the water The crew takes and allows the sharks to get The plan is for Will before Pierre tries to tag Everything is going to plan. Pierre manages to get But then he hesitates. The chance passes. Fred explains what happened. Mauricio, this one shark but, like, it's not the acoustic tag. -[Mauricio] No, but with parasites? [Mauricio] Yeah, then maybe it's, uh... The farther it was from us, -Oh. So you want us to tag that one? [Mauricio] Yes, if you are sure -[Mauricio] It's not an acoustic, right? [Mauricio] Maybe it's just a tether -Yeah. [narrator] The divers make But just as he reaches Pierre realises the danger. Will is immediately in front of the shark. Should the shark get aggressive Will would be extremely vulnerable. Pierre has to let the shark go The tagging is turning out Success is not guaranteed. But an experienced hunter knows The divers take their time. Perhaps the shark has noticed Perhaps the long and unfamiliar harpoons He is very cautious. Then Pierre has another chance. It's a good hit. But the hook didn't bite. The transmitter drops The shark has been spooked Will has found another target While Pierre retrieves his transmitter, But the angle is not ideal. The line doesn't release the transmitter. But Will is lucky. Eventually, the line releases A nervous, aggressive shark This could have ended very badly. But the transmitter Now everything goes smoothly and the team -Did you tag it? The big female? [Mauricio] Excellent. -[Mauricio] It's a female? Excellent. [Will] We had to use [Mauricio] Perfect. [divers speaking French] [Mauricio] Did you take a picture [Will] Yeah. [Fred] William has a video [narrator] This shot was perfect. The transmitter is securely in place Mauricio is elated. Yes, of course. And I think that they are I have seen a lot of females so this is perfect for the rate [narrator] It has been Getting any closer than this is virtually impossible. Dr Hoyos is particularly interested about the team's underwater observations And what about the behaviour [Fred] She was very quiet. She was coming very close, but in a very safe manner. Uh, approaching Just curious. And we could spend time with her, We had a lot of fun with that shark. -Always on the surface. No, and sometimes with the fin but we could cruise with her. She was totally accepting us. -Very calm. -[Will] Here's... -[Fred] Yeah. [laughs] [Pierre] On the left side, you can see Look at the size of the transmitter. -[Fred] Very tiny, huh? [Fred] But we have it on film also, the placement of the transmitters. I don't know that female. I don't know that female. [Fred] And this afternoon we saw -No tag, but we couldn't get it. No, same size, but not as fat. Thank you very much for your help. Without your help, because I have been trying to tag and they have been So for me, I was there in my skiff but I saw the sharks when they were So we've tagged two big females today, Because I have seen the big females and that's why I set this array With those transmitters, of movements of the sharks Let us know when you have results. Next year. [narrator] They're convinced can do something towards changing You can really explain to the people because all the pictures you see it's with the mouth open, if they do it, it's because you have Sometimes even bait on the camera so they go there to have, But when they don't have bait, They want to see what we are, then they are gone, The only time where when William tagging the shark. When I see the shark, -Attack... But, oof, it's gone! But it's only time I was very worried And the eye is not dark. Ah, you saw it's blue. It's not black. Everybody says they have like a deep, If you go close to a great white shark, with a blue circle, What we do really helps people to have a different perspective That island is a very nice place but perhaps one of the last, so... Humans have to take care about sea life, have to show He's curious and he lives in the sea. He's in his place, -We are just visitors. [narrator] It's possible their groundwork to new ground-breaking insights into the true nature of one