"No one ever lets you do that. They have a person, Hi, I'm Vivian, and And I'm here at the New And today, we'll be making I first experienced the it was a little blue shop. I believe the name was Noodles. It was very humble. You get a bowl and you and then they doused it And if you were then you can get the meat [SLURPING] "The recipe I developed omits because it's very dramatic. I wanted to ease the home Like, truly this recipe, This dough was so forgiving. It is three ingredients, and So it's the perfect thing that you go run your errands, finish it off, 15 minutes. And you get a This recipe has only The most important ingredient I like to use bread because it has more means more elasticity, which And then we're going to add room-temperature water. I like to add half of it the other half. So this is how it is, right? And then we're going And in the beginning, It's so dry and shaggy. But I promise, with a little she's going to get there. Turn it out, and we're And this will take some time. So put on a good First, push it together, pull it, and then come back. Make a little pocket. And you're going to feel Pick up all the You want to do this for But it's actually a It's like playing So it's getting tighter because the gluten This is also a workout. You see she is fighting us. The stickiness, you feel but it's really It's not like paper mache your hands. It kind of sticks to and oop, give it back to me. It's like a game of catch. O.K., so we're almost there. And what I like to do kind of like pizza dough. Oop. See? That's what you're Like, it doesn't stick. She's tired. Let's let her hang out That's the first rest. And then you can You do need to wrap this up. You don't want this to dry out to form. 20 minutes about, So this rested for 20 minutes. We are going to prep our sheet This will prevent So you can already It's not as 'domey.' We're going to This is to prevent And then from this half, we're And you're going to roll Just fight back a tiny bit. So ideally, it'll be about a wide. I feel like the most important thick. O.K. Then you onto your oiled, One thing that can also a little bit into a ball. So when you roll it out, This is what you want. Brush this with a and then cover it Today's recipe can lend itself as the thin. It's really about the base. O.K. And the shape It's trying to tuck What we're going for is blah. It's very, very relaxed. Like, imagine you've been for a month. You don't want any air pockets going to dry out that So just press in. She can take it. Also feels really nice. You're trying to relax it's like massage. It's just like oh, So that's how you get those little, like angry So we have a little to explain why the resting This one was just This is at the three-hour and then this is the six You can go a Let's focus on the So what you want to do into eight even pieces. So the way I like to cut and then divide this. I learned this in was responsible for and they were not even and So this is how I cut stuff. You can use a pizza cutter so as even as possible. So what you want to do And you can see but I'm definitely not for the full 2 feet because it pretty tense. This is as max as So we pulled probably about So resting is important. Now, let's do our three Do need to assist it out. It's very relaxed. It's already way more relaxed, But it does still pull away. So this one, we're And you can see that it's We can start seeing those through it. So when you get want to be able to support it. You can just pull the Even with this I'm still not comfortable Can you cook this? 100 percent. Would it be delicious? 1,000 percent. Since we have the Let's see how that Six hours -- best way She is relaxed. Let's cut. Six hours, and And it's like the It's so gentle. It's so soft. And look. Giving, elastic -- that's O.K., so the ends are What I want to do We can continue to pull, pull, pull, pull, stay. Pull, pull, pull, pull, O.K. So it is extremely thin. You can see it's like sheer. This is what we're going for. This will give It'll cook so quickly. Get another sheet tray to transfer over. I don't want people how am I going to overlap? Is it going to get stuck? Is it going to rip? It's not. Like, I literally just pick And if it sticks Look. It's all ribbony. So we're going to pull, pull, pull, pull, pull, Whoopsie. If it rips a little, it's O.K. They don't have to be perfect. Like, in the grand there just going into a bowl very different than See? You did it. So now, we are going to do the said, this dough can be So for the thin one, Just remember, the more you These are not going They're a little skinnier, So you just have to And for this, because the I like to do the inch pull. Pull one part, and I do this. Just let gravity See? It's just relaxed and easy. When I was developing my husband saw me doing this. He goes, 'what are you doing'? And then I asked him to and he had the best time. Woop. Woop. If you want, you can go for It's really whatever These little strands be pulled to at There's so many There's so many It just naturally -- like, This is just a very like Does it take more time? Yes, but that's You just enjoy the process. Done! Hand-pulled noodles, Now, we're going to eat them, like a noodle shop in here. We have our noodles. We have water boiling. And you kind of want to do because they cook fast. So you can cut Multitask, multitask. O.K., you just want to and swoosh it around. And they're pretty much done. Like, that's how That's how thin they are. And I would do one O.K., so now it's floating. And then we're going to scoop shake out the excess water. And then transfer directly to to enjoy them on. So now we're going to repeat O.K., and drop them in. Dress her up. I like to add chili oil, julienne, some to douse it with a little So now, let's make And we're just going Take the chopstick, And once they float, which and add them to the And you just made a bowl I always went to Chinatown It felt very much like homey, very well. And I miss home. I was homesick because you don't get to go home every Having that simple bowl of at my mom's kitchen. I always missed my so it was just a little I love a water noodle when because it holds for better or for worse, rather spicy. So I might regret that. As for the soupier version, rice similar have an addition of the yow And those are great because to line cook days. And this was the comfort food on." [SLURPING] "Mmm. I think food is takes you right back to the And it's just comfort. It's just comfort. That's what it is, So this one's definitely It did sit for a tiny bit. The chewiness, you Texturally, definitely a lot not like it's fighting you. It's just giving The scallion julienne Black vinegar of that chili oil, that heat. It's just holding on to that They're both great. They're both delicious. I really hope that you feel and make it and But before we go, Vaughn's here, in and dig in." "Oh, my god. Oh, my god. Well, I got to go "We're both getting it. Running out here." "It's so good. Mmm. You did put a lot of Woo!" "We're going to get out of "No, I love it." "You can find this recipe and Times' Cooking." [MUSIC PLAYING]