In the early nineties, a 'Q score' survey of American children revealed that Mario had become more recognizable than Mickey Mouse! The success of Super Mario 64 and other titles like Mario Party helped to maintain the plumber's popularity and warped him into the 2000s with a very bright future ahead. This is the evolution of Super Mario, part 3! The six-year gap between Super Mario 64 and the next game in Nintendo had considered making Those plans were eventually scrapped in favor of an alternative sequel that would be released for the Nintendo GameCube in 2002... Super Mario Sunshine! Following the success of The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask, conceived the idea of a Mario game that which they would call the Flash Liquidizer The game takes place on The name Isle Delfino is one of the rare Mario, Peach, and an entourage of Toads However, the island's inhabitants soon and causing its energy source, the Shine Sprites, to disappear. The man they describe has a round nose, That sounds like Mario! But it can't be! Like in Super Mario 64, the player has to find all The new FLUDD mechanic allows players to spray Interestingly, although FLUDD appears in later Mario games, only and is able to communicate with other Many recurring characters are introduced in this game, Petey Piranha, Gooper Blooper, Piantas, Nokis, and... Shadow Mario!! Ah, so that's who was making a mess! However, in his series debut, the main villain Super Mario Sunshine was the first 3D Mario with Charles Martinet voicing Mario and Scott Burns voicing Bad audio mixing didn't do this feature any favors, though. The title won GameSpot's annual and received an impressive 92 on Metacritic. With reviewers raving about the superb Game Informer called Sunshine while Computer and Video Games claimed it was Sales figures didn't quite reflect this, with Super Mario compared to Super Mario 64's 11.9 million. However, that's likely down to fewer people owning Fun Fact At first, the plan was to have a multiplayer mode, that would This idea probably sounds very familiar to Nintendo fans, as it would later form the groundwork for the Splatoon series. New Super Mario Bros. is a 2D side-scrolling Players were once again tasked with saving Peach again. Players can play as Mario and Luigi. It also featured two multiplayer games, one called Mario vs. Luigi and another for up to four players. Although it's a 2D game, most of the characters and objects basically making it a 2.5D game. The main game plays much like the original Super Mario Bros., For instance, the wall jump makes its first appearance in The player can also use ground-pound to smash blocks, and certain power-ups behave differently like the Mega Mushroom that grows the players while the Mini Mushroom causes the The game features a world map with variable and secret paths, just like in Super Mario World. There are 8 worlds, each containing at least one fortress Bowser Jr., who does indeed serve as the game's main enemy, often battles Mario in the mid-world fortresses, New Super Mario Bros. was a commercial success garnering a score of 89 on Metacritic. Several review outlets called it one of the best and although the difficulty was deemed to be too easy, it was praised for making improvements while New Super Mario Bros. ended up selling making it the best-selling game for the Nintendo DS ever and placing it among the top-selling video games of all time. Its success resulted in sequels that Nintendo 3DS, Wii U, and Nintendo Switch. Fun Fact The character of Bowser was originally sketched However, his drawings were misinterpreted How that happened, I don't know, but they decided to develop the latter idea, and the Bowser By the way, he's definitely a turtle now and not a dragon, as some people have mistaken him for in the past! After appearing in Super Mario Land the next logical step for our Italian hero was Although before Nintendo landed on the idea for Super Mario Galaxy, they first showed some gameplay for a Super Mario 128 Yoshiaki Koizumi, the director of this demonstration wanted to create a game with spherical platforms. Years later, they decided that such a concept Released for the Wii in 2007, the 3D platformer Here, levels take place across multiple planets The plot once again revolves around Peach, Every one hundred years, a comet To celebrate this event, they have a festival. Peach discovers a Star Shaped creature called However, Bowser attacks the kingdom with a fleet of airships, and using a flying saucer, he carries off Peach and her entire castle. Mario is knocked down by Kamek as he tries to go after them and lands on a small planet with more Luma's. When he wakes up, he meets Rosalina, who In total, there are 121 Stars to collect in-game, the player will have to complete all of the levels twice, Players travel through space to and fight several bosses like Bowser and Bowser jr. along the way. This is the first 3D Mario game to include the However, it does away with most of the previous power-ups Boo Mario... Spring Mario... Flying Mario... Rainbow Mario and more! New gameplay mechanics, such as changes in gravity caused many reviewers to fall in love with Super Mario Galaxy, which was reflected in the very impressive score of 97 on Metacritic. This makes it the 5th highest-rated game on Metacritic! Meanwhile, the colorful and vibrant level details, animations, and Super Mario Galaxy also became a huge commercial success, with over 12.8 million copies sold. Fun Fact Some gamers who pre-ordered Super received a surprising phone call informing them when in reality, it is actually rated E for Everyone. Clearly, this was an error but a mature Mario game? Now that I'd like to see! Funkyzeit Games' epic video showcasing a darker version In 2009, following a drop in profits for Nintendo, New It plays similarly to the Nintendo DS version, but the most noteworthy being the addition of multiplayer, making it the first Super Mario game to feature Up to four people can play cooperatively or in competitive modes, choosing to play as Mario, Luigi, or one of two multi-colored Toads. Shigeru Miyamoto had been wanting to create a Super Mario game mainly due to hardware limitations. However, with the Wii console, he was New Super Mario Bros. Wii did as intended, receiving It was awarded 'Best Wii Game' at and received a score of 87 on Metacritic. IGN said in their review, As of March 2021, more than 30.3 million copies of the game not including titles like Wii Sports that It also became the fifth best-selling Mario game of all time! In 2010, the time came for a follow-up to Super Mario Galaxy. At first, Miyamoto planned to re-release the game with just Super Mario Galaxy more. However, so many new ideas were thought up that This would extend the development from the previously The concept of &quot;switching,&quot; in other words making the game's was to be the focus of the game early on. However, this was difficult to implement on to feature in specific levels only. Developers also considered including cameos specifically Donkey Kong and Pikmin. However, Miyamoto didn't see Pikmin characters and so the idea was scrapped. The plot of the game is essentially a re-telling of the first I mean a cake, during the Star Festival. On the way, Mario notices a strange light Tucking it safely under his cap, he proceeds to the castle As in the first title, gameplay centers around Each has its own themes, landscapes, and climates This time the different galaxies could be entered from The Starship is expanded with new features when All of the original transformations return, with while three new power-ups and items are introduced in the game. The Sin Drill, Rock Mario, and Cloud Mario provided new gameplay mechanics. Mario can also ride Yoshi in some levels, using the dinosaur's tongue to manipulate pull levers, and swallow berries or enemies Riding Yoshi allows the player to double jump, and Yoshi As Super Mario Galaxy 2 ups the difficulty factor, there The Cosmic Guide is similar to New Super Mario Bros. She will help the player reach a star by giving Fun Fact Due to its perceived spike in difficulty, Japanese, European, with an instructional DVD manual explaining the basic controls. Most gamers found it to be pretty patronizing, and it's not known why such a DVD was Maybe they're just better gamers! Training wheels aside, the new gimmicks, level design, It is considered by many to be a bolder take on the Galaxy formula, and reviewers praised its creativity and Super Mario Galaxy 2 racked up a score of 97, with many media outlets like GameSpot GameSpot hailed the while IGN's Craig Harris felt that the game Over 7.4 million copies of the game were sold. Not nearly as many as the original, but After conquering entire galaxies, where could Super Mario go from here? Click the video on screen to find out! Thanks for watching! Subtitles done by Emir Kahvecioglu