All right, where the only way and give yourself traumatic whiplash. It's GTA. We want to find out which GTA through the most ridiculous obstacles, and so Alex has created a brand new board. He's given me all these vehicles to choose from with the rule that once it blows up, you can't use the vehicle anymore. We have to go through all the sections, ramming until eventually, Let's do this. I'm not going to lie, I thought like it could just win Standing humans persistently. What does that mean? How much does a human body weigh? These are all body builders. What sort of poltergeist stuff I love how they just-- It's like Professor X is keeping Oh, they're really heavy. Oh, wow. It's actually holding the vehicle back. Like three bodybuilders Alex has created ramming challenges What is happening with the guy Oh, it's Paranormal Activity 5, everyone. All right, obviously, Are you ready to face the hammer? Oh, they're caught in the wheel. Now, you're going to notice, They're fine. They are not injured run over with my gigantic tread tires. They're full of raspberry filling, It's like a Boston cream donut, Okay, that took a lot more effort I'm not going to lie. All right, what else you got for me? Oh, these are humans, Running humans recklessly. You can't stop me, humans. Throwing a vicious right cross over here. See, I don't even know-- Oh, that-- Okay. All right, so when they're moving, I will say that. Yeeting. Oh, no. God. Well, I didn't do much damage to it, Out of the way, running humans. I need to get over to your yeeting How do you even get past this? Is that like a teleporter Wow. Okay. The yeeting humans are no joke. The fact that this car is struggling this much is really starting Man, it's like putting a bunch How fast are these humans Look at it. All right, I'm going to try There we go. I knew it was a portal. You had to get to it somehow, What's happening is the fist the car from getting I might be able to get because he's given me hydraulics, Yes, I'm just going to do it reverse. Stop it. Stop. Stop. I never thought in the history of warfare Live traffic ramming. Okay. I feel like this vehicle has already done Okay. Oh, you set up the roadway for this. Is this multiple choice, Wow. That's just Gray making We're going to pick this one. All right, so far, so good. [grunts] That's fine. The fist so I don't have to worry about I don't think. Just trying to drive around that. Oh, there are-- Whoa, I love how he's got just around to make the traffic Sorry, motorcyclist. Oh, the motorcyclist has blades. Do not cut my tires. I think he did. I think he cut my front left tire. All right, the truck still works. It's a little more derpy now, It's fine. All right, I'm bringing you with me. You and I have to complete You're going to know what I go [laughs] [?] I'm going to bring this guy Container ramming. Oh, bye. All right. How good does this thing Okay, Yes, just keep them stacking. I don't care. See, I'm fist bumping the container. The container and I are friends. Now, 600 pounds. I could probably cheat this-- Oh, wow. Probably because they're on their side, 800 pounds. Now I'm starting to feel the weight. Home run. The fact that there's two of them this is stopping me [grunts] Oh, no. All right. Here's what we're going to do. Since the love fist is missing a tire and I do want to try I figure we'll pick a much smaller Maybe the extra speed shoot right through all the problems. Psycho. Well, it's got a blade All right. Human ramming. Except now I'm driving Oh, it takes out their knees. That makes that a lot easier. All right, now the running humans, again, I can just take them out at the knees. Not too bad. Oh, yes, there we go. Now the yeeting humans. Whoa. Oh, they go over the car. Oh, this is a great idea. I don't even have to worry Oh, wow. If they do hit, it does cause Out of the way. Okay, so the-- What happened? [laughs] Okay. All right. That was a little concerning, The wheels on this have a little protective Wow. That is fantastic. I kind of-- Oh, oh, oh, no. Oh, God. Oh, this is so much Oh, something is on fire Do not blow up on top of me. All right. We're fine. Everything's fine. Out of the way. [gasps] I'm pretty sure that man hit and went exploding That is incredible. The Julian Slicer Look at this, what I was trying to say is, it just shoots everything away from you. Bam. Move it, Cop. [laughs] I love how the slower you go-- Am I getting carjacked in the middle Oh, I didn't think about this. There's like gang warfare going on while I'm trying to complete and my car is taking damage because of it. Stop. Okay. Off of the ramp. Oh, yes. Oh, wow, this thing gets high like crazy. Just the air it can get is incredible. The fact is going to be a problem because even the 400 pound I can squeeze through here. Get a little speed. There we go. Can I just go under this? Do I even have to deal with this? I could just cheat it, Okay, so pushing Can I go under the 800? I can. Perfect. Now I just have to get Are you ready? [grunts] Well, that was unfortunate. You know what? I feel like there's something All right, I have a new plan. I think that the winner and here's why. It can ramp This thing is unstoppable. Watch this. Boom. Oh, all right. Well, [laughs] I thought it would ramp Out of the way, All right. Through running people. It's like every adventurer in Skyrim Oh, [chuckles] I do have to waddle-- Oh. It's the actual - Oh my God. Hold on. I need to fix this. It's the actual propulsion from the jets I'm going to have to do this one backwards Oh. Just saved my life. I found one of the best ways or if you hit this hard-- Oh, that worked out really good. Okay. All right. Live traffic ramming, this thing's Straight up. I don't know what other kind of challenges you have, Watch this. A full bus. All right, Look at that. Nothing. Bam. People flying through the air. [laughs] I might actually run into something, but I want this view [?] [laughs] Don't you do it, bus. Well, even the bus drivers Anyway. [?] You probably wonder, can you just ramp Yes, watch. Even containers like these, you can still get Look at that. Look at how high they went. Midair ramming. Midair ramming. How? Oh, you're doing jumps and then you're going through stuff Sweet. I love how half I know, I know. It's basically human Oh, I didn't even touch them. That was easy. What is this? Are they buses? It's just a giant stack of buses. Oh, they're two rows deep. Here we go. What the? What just happened? [chuckles] Did I ramp underneath them? What even happened? That's amazing. I literally have no clue. I thought it would run but it look like ramped them. I have to air crash through a helicopter. All right, helicopter, Oh, well, it stopped the ramp car, I didn't even move the helicopter. Something about this car makes me believe that this is the chosen there's like a ram skull in the front. It's a human skull with ram horns, This is a ramming board. Should do just fine. A lot of knees were harmed No joke. Okay, so far, It has absolutely no traction, it does ramp through vehicles because it's got You can see them, so it lifts vehicles up. Yes, like right there. Watch this, boom. I'm taking your bumper Man, it too has a lot of problems getting Okay, hold on. It's not small enough so I need raw power from this thing. Okay, 800 pound crate. Double stacked 800 pound crates though, I don't know Oh, it can go under it. Okay, lucky. Now, the giant wall of crates. I'm going to aim right in the middle here. This is where I can move. In case you're wondering, through these crates for a while, but man, it takes some effort. All right, midair ramming. Taco trucks, number one. Over the top. Didn't even touch them. Okay, greyhound buses. I made it, just barely. Can I get around all these? Yes, I can just barely squeeze My archenemy, the helicopter. I'm going to aim for the opening. I'm going to need a bigger car. Oh, real quick, Drink more highly pressurized Anyway, here we-- Oh, the top speed isn't great. Go. Oh, oh, oh, oh. There's a lot of people catching It's like a bunch of mosquitoes. [laughs] Through the yeety humans, boom. Through the traffic. Actually, I don't know It's all right. It's got a lot of weight It loses a little bit of weight Now, it's just pure weight Out of the way, gigantic wall of crates. Bring the walls down. Midair ramp ramming. Okay, it did not-- Oh, no. This thing is only rear-wheel drive. No. I don't know how I can fix this. I can wriggle it. Out of the way, taco-- No. You know what? This thing wasn't as strong as I thought. It's pink, it's got pink rims. This is the one that's going to make it. Through the people, no problem. Through the yeety people, kind of a problem just because I got and use the hydraulics because it's got I'm not here plowing snow, That sounds terrible. As if though they were debris, see. I'm keeping the street safe. Look at all these people going to work, Not on my watch. Oh, whoa. I landed on the hood. That was amazing. I can't believe I did that. All right, Not bad at all. 600 pound one is really easy just 800 pound one, not too bad as well. Will it have to go Over the taco trucks, Okay. It had more weight, That's quite nice. I also broke my skull Don't ask what I had to go through to get Also, I just realized at some point on their motorcycles Just don't ask. All right? Okay. Can anything Here we-- Oh, I'm losing some speed. Go. Yes. No. No, it exploded. [laughs] Oh, it almost crushed my body, How am I supposed to make it through the helicopter without blowing up? Not going to lie, Alex, There's two left. Not like roast beef. I mean weight to the truck. Through the people. Through the traffic. [?] Sticks the landing. Through the containers. Oh, yes. Oh, this is it. Oh, this has power. Oh, this thing is amazing. Oh, yes. Look at the weight. Look at it. It just smashes I'm just keeping Midair ramming is about to get legit. Midair ramming. Taco trucks, boom. Midair ramming. Greyhound buses, take my money. Bam. Ow. [screams] [laughs] Well, I just had the opportunity of this thing go into my mouth and now I'm going to be vomiting All right, helicopter. I've had enough of you. Ready and go. Yes, finally. What is this? It's a waterfall of cars. [laughs] It's a double waterfall. I think I have to land down there. I just have to make it of cars with absolutely Now, unfortunately, my truck is smoking. I don't know how much damage this thing Here-- Oh, we're going to go right into it. We're going to go right to it. Yes. Sticks the landing, yes. I am eating a lot of probably What else you got for me, Alex? What is this? What is this? Oh. [laughs] Oh my God, I had to land on my head. Luckily, the two inches Now, I have to ram It's not that hard though. Moist ramming. Hey, no loitering. Oh, did he just-- I'm sure He's not dead. He's fine. Real quick, in the distance, All right, pretty good. Then, we have-- Oh, it's the personal submarine. I love how this boat ran out of the way [?] like commercial fishing boat. Oh, no. I didn't think about it. This thing actually bottoms out Are you serious? The engine flooded. I think this could have made it. That means there's only one choice left. It has finally come to this. Through the people. Didn't even lose any speed. Through the running people. Again, didn't lose any speed. Through the yeeting people. Wow, I almost went flying off the course. I'm not afraid of traffic. Traffic is afraid of me. [grunts]. Yes. Even though I can't squeeze under them, it doesn't matter because this thing is just so powerful compared This is why you always Anyway, against the taco trucks. I want to hit them too. I'm not jumping over them this time. I want to go right through them. Against the buses. [grunts] Now, you and I, helicopter. Go. Yes. Through the waterfall of cars now. If the other bus made this one should do fine I guess. I've been trying to line this up to make sure I get us Yes. [chuckles] It goes through the cars so easy. Big 360. Out of the way. [laughs] Oh, I landed right on the cage over here. I can't believe I didn't go Don't you flood on me. Now, the engine As you can see, so we get a good look at it. Okay. Are you ready to destroy the hopes who own these boats? The personal submarine, no problem. Oh, there's a sailboat. No problem. Ah, no. Luckily I can swim back to the vehicle. All right, there's one obstacle left. I can see victory. I can taste it, Bam, yes. We have a winner. Well, I rammed cars and my soul Anyway, folks, Till the next time, stay foxy, much love.