All right, I want to see a show of hands: how many of you have because they said something offensive childcare, food? (Laughter) And how many of you because you just don't want (Laughter) You know, it used to be that in order we just had to follow the advice Stick to the weather and your health. But these days, with climate change (Laughter) are not safe either. So this world that we live in, this world in which every conversation has the potential where our politicians and where even the most trivial of issues have someone fighting both passionately Pew Research did a study and they found that at this moment, we are more divided, than we ever have been in history. We're less likely to compromise, which means we're And we make decisions about where to live, who to marry and even based on what we already believe. Again, that means A conversation requires a balance and somewhere along the way, Now, part of that is due to technology. The smartphones that you all or close enough that you could According to Pew Research, about a third of American teenagers And many of them, almost most of them, than they are to talk There's this great piece in The Atlantic. It was written by a high school teacher And he gave his kids He wanted to teach them how to speak And he said this: "I came to realize..." (Laughter) &quot;I came to realize might be the single Kids spend hours each day engaging but rarely do they have an opportunity to hone their interpersonal It might sound like a funny question, Is there any 21st-century skill more important than being able to sustain Now, I make my living talking to people: Nobel Prize winners, truck drivers, billionaires, kindergarten teachers, heads of state, plumbers. I talk to people that I like. I talk to some people that I disagree with But I still have So I'd like to spend the next 10 minutes and how to listen. Many of you have already heard things like look the person in the eye, think of interesting topics look, nod and smile to show repeat back what you just heard So I want you to forget all of that. It is crap. (Laughter) There is no reason to learn if you are in fact paying attention. (Laughter) (Applause) Now, I actually use the exact that I do in regular life. So, I'm going to teach you and that's actually going to help you Learn to have a conversation without wasting your time, and, please God, We've all had really great conversations. We've had them before. The kind of conversation where you or where you feel or you've been perfectly understood. There is no reason why most of your interactions So I have 10 basic rules. but honestly, if you just choose you'll already enjoy better conversations. Number one: Don't multitask. And I don't mean or your tablet or your car keys I mean, be present. Be in that moment. Don't think about your argument Don't think about what If you want to get out get out of the conversation, but don't be half in it Number two: Don't pontificate. If you want to state your opinion without any opportunity for response write a blog. (Laughter) Now, there's a really good reason Because they're really boring. If they're conservative, they're going to If they're liberal, they're going to hate big banks and oil corporations Totally predictable. And you don't want to be like that. You need to enter every conversation The famed therapist M. Scott Peck said that true listening requires And sometimes that means He said that sensing this acceptance, the speaker will become and more and more likely of his or her mind to the listener. Again, assume that you have Bill Nye: &quot;Everyone you will ever meet I put it this way: Everybody is an expert in something. Number three: Use open-ended questions. In this case, take a cue from journalists. Start your questions with who, If you put in a complicated question, If I ask you, &quot;Were you terrified?&quot; you're going to respond to the most which is &quot;terrified,&quot; and the answer is &quot;Were you angry?&quot; &quot;Yes, I was very angry.&quot; Let them describe it. Try asking them things like, &quot;How did that feel?&quot; Because then they might have to stop and you're going to get Number four: Go with the flow. That means thoughts and you need to let them We've heard interviews often in which a guest is talking and then the host comes back in which seems like it comes out of nowhere, That means the host probably because he thought and he was just bound And we do the exact same thing. We're sitting there having and then we remember that time (Laughter) And we stop listening. Stories and ideas You need to let them come and let them go. Number five: If you don't know, Now, people on the radio, are much more aware and so they're more careful and what they claim to know for sure. Do that. Err on the side of caution. Talk should not be cheap. Number six: Don't equate If they're talking don't start talking about the time If they're talking about the trouble don't tell them about It's not the same. It is never the same. All experiences are individual. And, more importantly, You don't need to take that moment or how much you've suffered. Somebody asked Stephen Hawking once &quot;I have no idea. People who brag (Laughter) Conversations are not Number seven: Try not to repeat yourself. It's condescending, and we tend to do it a lot. Especially in work conversations we have a point to make, so we just keep rephrasing it Don't do that. Number eight: Stay out of the weeds. Frankly, people don't care about the years, the names, the dates, all those details that you're struggling They don't care. They care about what you're like, what you have in common. So forget the details. Leave them out. Number nine: This is not the last one, Listen. I cannot tell you how many that listening is perhaps the most, that you could develop. Buddha said, and I'm paraphrasing, &quot;If your mouth is open, And Calvin Coolidge said, &quot;No man (Laughter) Why do we not listen to each other? Number one, we'd rather talk. When I'm talking, I'm in control. I don't have to hear anything I'm the center of attention. I can bolster my own identity. But there's another reason: We get distracted. The average person talks but we can listen at up to So our minds are filling in And look, I know, to actually pay attention to someone, but if you can't do that, You're just two people shouting out in the same place. (Laughter) You have to listen to one another. Stephen Covey said it very beautifully. He said, &quot;Most of us don't listen We listen with the intent to reply.&quot; One more rule, number 10, Be interested in other people. You know, I grew up and there was kind of a ritual People would come over and after they would leave, and she'd say, She was the runner-up to Miss America. He was the mayor of Sacramento. She won a Pulitzer Prize. And I kind of grew up assuming everyone has some hidden, And honestly, I think I keep my mouth shut I keep my mind open. And I'm always prepared to be amazed, and I'm never disappointed. You do the same thing. Go out, talk to people, listen to people, and, most importantly, Thanks. (Applause)