Hi my name is Kevin Hicks welcome to my YouTube is well overdue, right uh subscribers of could I make a video on medieval arrows and also how do I make my own arrows for my personal So before you even begin to make the arrows from or the lumber as they call it here in the all of these different woods. Now I was very nine I moved out of the inner city that I was was ancient woodland there out in Staffordshire time. But what I noticed, there were lots of main branch and from it every year grew straight, and used as makeshift arrows myself, as this that's what they were for, these are century either for arrow shafts by the locals or simply I was reading recently that they bought arrows skin on some of them with skin off, that's peeling a main supply of timber as well and one thing they they could actually saw and then they could I'm absolutely useless at this I really am, a square section. Just so it happens that actually I cut it on a on a saw. This is to that, right? And these are from the what you need is what I understand it's called timber, you chamfer the one edge and the other, where they have been polished and all of that. side in, so you've got four sides you then run any each time you come to an edge, simply turn it, until you have, I think I've got one. parts where you can see where it's been shaved get yourself a piece of wood drill a hole put it together like that, and you can start to medieval times, of course they could have made had planes, there's no problems with that, but Now back in my native England they would have dogfish, member of the shark family. Dogfish brilliant. Now I've tried, I can't get any. Also it and you can simply shave him, get him nice and you can make an arrow from this no problems. people will go 'oh no he's got a bit of this or hunting or for killing people, these aren't your So as you can imagine, I don't spend all day I get them imported into here to Canada from South But as you can see there's not much difference the ones that I've purchased. The ones I've made into parallel sided, barrelled, I could even make where you have a little bit of bulbous piece for is how I make these, the horn nocks because So first of all a little jig like this, this is with some holes drilled into it. But as you'll if you stick him in you tighten it up. Now the groove they used to have a small saw, I've got one. This it's a small saw. Butchers had them, and as you can see I have already very carefully to take in the uh horn nock. Now do yourself thick. Sand it down make this to the shape of force it because you'll then put pressure onto you have to do is glue him in, some resin glue, I Araldite, and it will never move. Now let's trim because it's thin you can either cut it with a uh jigsaw like a hobby jigsaw you can just cut him and there's just the narrow ridge, I've yeah here's one, he's pretty much done. So put him in my jig, get into the make your mark halfway so the nnock is going across yeah, the uh the grain. Make yourself just Now the reason you're doing that first of but also when you bring in either your small saw or if you're doing it the modern way get yourself three hacksaw blades some people otherwise as you're sawing down they actually the little groove you've made put your thumbnail and you want to take this down to about an eighth the same. Now don't forget what the nock is for, those people who may have been wondering. So take yeah that's pretty much it. Now my secret weapon, Sandpaper today, in those days it would a needle file a nice little round needle Just a little tip, don't put your if you do, you'll have to take So let's take it out of there so I So there is the basic nock, so now we're in the nock so it sits in there with the the bow Now I bet there'll be lots of people out there like this' but actually Kevin does it and my arrows have served me very well thank you making it nice and smooth rounded off at the ends. Now the next phase from this is of course this morning I was just getting it ready just and smooth for the bowstring and the fletchings cockfeather, so I know which way to put it on the me explain. In order to get the fletchings sitting now I've seen uh reenactments where they've made as a modern jig. These are Sherwood jigs, I've these are the goose fletchings so they were every goose in England had to surrender so are there. Uh, but to get these from this onto one fletching, curve slightly to the right which I so I'm going to find just where it thins out scissors. They had knives and scissors just the which is quite long, but it's what I use. in it goes. And I'm going to cut him, and can do this you can do that. I've already and you go down a little bit, down a little you cut off at the end. Now this is actually what I'm going to do now is I'm just going to undo There's already one um white so let me just take him There's the gray goose, there's the white, now I'll show you how to repair when these feathers the, the jig laying because these are Now these jigs are great, it's set perfectly but me the place for the next white fletching to be there but it's how we have to do it. A little around the end there, nothing special, just from slipping sometimes. Then having marked this make sure he's level, have a pin standing this is just simple white adhesive. Run a bead of it along, not too much but make sure there is enough to goes. Now in the medieval times I understand they plants like the blue bells. Now because he's so long he sticks out at the pin him straight. 20 minutes that'll be to trim down the fletchings a bit more if I What I'm going to do now is I'm going to these fletchings, these feathers they're a few times. So what you do is you boil Take the lid off. As the kettle begins to over the steam and very very slowly the These are just nicely coming in now yeah, quite nice the way that's turned out but what out the jig it's a little bit soon really, but fletchings have all been rucked up a little bit ah that's gone back in absolutely perfect. You So what we're going to do now is we're going to magnificent Westminster arrow there but uh don't hoping to achieve, just a decent bit of whipping the actual whipping process the binding of the have a special knot. Now for the knot, let me just you're a princess maybe swan fletchings or peacock whip this fletch. Make a loop, hold lock him in there into the fletchings, get the your loop. Then hold the loop in place with Once you've done that you wind him round. or anti-clockwise I haven't got a clue I just wind him around just pull your fingernails down on half an inch in length or it can be like this one, reach the base of the feathers, the fletchings, take the knot, pull him up, now you've locked the is you just pull the loop through there is your him in with the rest of it. I like to cut it. to wind. Now the professionals will do it at a turn, put him in, turn, put him in, turn Now I'm normally doing this I will be honest with the telly. I find this quite relaxing, so you can bring him out separate the veins there until eventually you've got a nice little So we're getting towards the Any pieces that are sticking just knock them back in and we'll steam him no we're on. Right so we change now. I'll do with my finger so nothing comes undone, then because I normally lose this and I'm going oh and you wind over it, bring your fingernails other side with this which is often easily, quite because you're going to seal off all of your windings it's all going to so now I've got to just cut a bit of the put him through the loop now with the other two bits make sure you've got both of them, through, see I've pulled him through and clamp him down. Now what you can do is you nail varnish some people actually It's pretty good, but those so just with my eye I'm going to cut down this To put the pile on or the point, you can size of your arrow you can then put your pile, nice little modern bodkin or you can even put on a medieval style. I glue these on. Mr and then you don't lose him off in the target That's simply it. Well I hope you enjoyed share and subscribe and if you can turn on that down the line. But before I go I've got to Schultz and Chris Holmes, hey guys thank