alright stay standing for just a get a little exercise stand back up if It's good to see you. How have you those we can't see. You're my favorite ones to notes on everything I say. I picture you sitting you are not distracted, running around with kids ready to hear a word from God. Let's give it us a little comment in the chat, just your way prayer hands emoji in the chat or something like The reason we stand for the Word of God respect for what God speaks. I'm thankful value it. I honor it. There are things of God. You can't say them to other people, So, God gives us moments like this, in a building or whether we're and he tells us things. He speaks things to us don't understand them yet. The passage I want After I share this story with you, I'll but it's really not just my thought. It is and it's going to help you with your &quot;Once safely on shore, we found out that the us unusual kindness. They built a fire and cold. Paul gathered a pile of brushwood driven out by the heat, fastened itself snake hanging from his hand, they said to for though he escaped from the sea, the But Paul shook the snake off into the fire y'all might be happy to hear that verse, to to know that it tried, but it didn't work. I of the stuff the Devil did to you, the weapons shout about it. I'm just thankful that Now let's take it further. Verse 6: &quot;The people but after waiting a long time and they changed their minds and said he was quickly. Not that people ever flip their says something else I want to read to &quot;There was an estate nearby that belonged to He welcomed us to his home and showed us father was sick in bed, suffering from fever after prayer, placed his hands on him the rest of the sick on the island came and and when we were ready to sail, they Everything you need is on this island. season of your life without what you need. truth. Look at your neighbor and give Father, I thank you that nothing comes to hand. Right now, would you speak a word in Now, I'm going to set this Bible story I don't know have any real hobbies, so in my free do have hobbies. I like to listen also to podcasts especially about songwriting. I know that's boring the story behind the song that was written. because it's almost like they're magical One songwriter that I like to listen to him tell went in to write with Darius Rucker for the first but Clay said he wasn't really feeling it. He said So, about halfway through the session of getting &quot;I've just got to be honest with you, man. I'm not broken, and I'm second-guessing everything Darius was like, &quot;Oh, I get it, man. We &quot;I go back and think about a girl who broke would have happened if we'd stayed together.&quot; &quot;Yeah, man. Don't think I don't.&quot; Clay he took his notebook and wrote that line down. and he started to write a song called He took it back to Darius the and it was Darius' first #1 country hit. That's and he did something with it. Now, you've heard with it? Here's another example I love. One named Max Martin. It was her first time They were working on a song, and somebody this pop star. They claimed to be a friend to the studio and started talking. It was busted into the studio says, &quot;Yeah. I heard they got the guy to leave the studio because turned to Max Martin and said, &quot;Hey, trust Max Martin turned to Taylor Swift and said, &quot;We've have an ex somewhere back in your past? How made millions of dollars out of it, here's my point. Creativity is not creativity is defined by how you A great songwriter, a creative songwriter said hundreds of times before and goes, great songwriter goes through a heartbreak... You and become an alcoholic or a drug addict, but They make a hit out of something Now, I would suggest to you that, our Christian faith from those who do not have to us. It's not necessarily even the things those things that happen to us and do something The more painful the event is, the show his creative power. See, God is not creative; he is Creator. Creative people can take is Creator. He can take nothing and make it into The word he spoke into darkness carried kinetic because God called it light when it was though they are. If he calls you forgiven, it name. God can speak into nothing and create when it talks about God creating the There was nothing there, but it didn't stop God, ask a creative genius, &quot;Where do you get your I get them from everyday life. I get them from something I lived through.&quot; God didn't have to didn't have to respond to anything, because when I'm trying to set the framework for this God lives inside of you. So, if the God who can it stands to reason that the God with this also take something in your life that does or preferred and turn it into exactly what because he's God like that, God doesn't have to hear anything to anything to do something. In fact, God can you make and turn it into great wisdom for the Bible about a king called Solomon. But what surprised me about Solomon's wisdom of a bad decision his father David made. If not so bad about your dumb decisions. Not but, you know, back when you were back before you were so smart as you God prefers that you use wisdom as you're wisdom, God is so big and so good and so God will use stupid. That's a place it. I know you can't clap, because I talked to one woman. She said, &quot;I never should They had three kids. She said, &quot;I was so stupid, smacked herself hard. I said, &quot;Stop.&quot; I grabbed kids?&quot; She said, &quot;Yeah. I wouldn't trade my kids She said, &quot;Yeah, all three of them.&quot; I Maury Povich paternity test or anything She said, &quot;Yeah, we had them all together.&quot; I you just called your greatest gifts through your before you take your hand and hit yourself, like than that), stop for a minute and think about I'll take it a step farther. All of the church on this one. Not just in spite do more through stupid than humans can how great God is. &quot;Are you telling me to go drive drunk? Are you telling me to make I'm not saying any of that, but the fact of chapter 28, where Paul does a great miracle, could have been avoided but wasn't. I believing that God can use their life necessarily some of the things that put It's hard for me to believe for God to But I want to remind you from David's God will use stupid. David slept with who was fighting for him. Stupid. He went in and repented before the Lord When he finished repenting, he went in to his conceived and gave birth to a son. His name was How could God make something so splendid out Do you want a definition of grace? All right. so God uses stupid. When you choose the we would like to eliminate the number of times don't want to give God raw materials to work that grace may abound? God forbid!&quot; Yet I know Now, there's nothing about the storm in Acts 28, so I know you might be confused. Acts we found out that the island was called Malta.&quot; you might think Paul was going on vacation, some you know, trying to get away from the crazy church But in Acts, chapter 27, in fact, he has just hurricane-force wind, which is bad enough, Paul tried to warn the other people onboard. Trust me. You know sailing, but I know the that this is bad.&quot; They did it anyway, and Paul I think this is one of the toughest do stupid and to believe God can do stupid and won't stop doing stupid? They Now you're living in somebody else's One of the things we have to learn in situations we didn't ask for or backfires and we catch some of it in our own God can still use stupid. I'll prove this to First, the storm they went through was a stupid have easily avoided this storm. They didn't Secondly (I don't know if you noticed this), after do this story justice. I wish I could give you the verse 1, where they landed on an island even know what it was called until they You don't really know what to call it looks like on other people's Instagram, but you get there. What I love about but on another hand they were called We read about how Paul ended up healing believe God was calling Paul to that island believe Paul crashed because the sailors are confused and are just clapping to be polite &quot;I'm confused. Is it a crash or a calling? I'm possible that sometimes God uses a crash as a you have called a crash in your life, a crash I'm so glad you're still here. I was and I saw you when you used to sit down there. so glad you made it. It's good to see you, The reason I noticed in the video is you were I was preaching on Acts 28. I'm not making of staged.&quot; It's not staged. I literally I was preaching the same passage. I bet since and I bet you've been through some things, but is that you keep coming even after the crash. No, didn't. Some of y'all crashed out on the way to other everything but &quot;child of God&quot; on the way They arrived safely on shore. Now say, &quot;Unsure.&quot; unsure, which means, &quot;I'm not sure yet whether that is going to turn out for my good or &quot;I'm not sure yet whether this person leaving bad thing. I'm not sure yet whether losing if it's just draining my bank account. I'm not love about God is no matter whether you call whether you call it a mistake... Whatever &quot;Don't think I don't know how to make something When we find ourselves crashed out on same language... The version I put up there was the NIV. It's more modern. When it talks but in the original language it called them I haven't even told you this part yet. The reason trial before Caesar in Rome. So, he is a preacher disguised as a crash, looking at some people his same language. I wonder, have you landed your life, a strange place in your emotions, If you have, I believe you have every reason which simply means something you're not familiar same direction, that God can use this too. people they're afraid of, but the barbarians are When God uses something you think is barbaric when God uses somebody you don't even like to tell process you resist, that is the strange grace of I might should have called this message &quot;Strange I counted on. It's the grace that comes from It's the grace that comes from places that because you didn't choose it doesn't mean but not as a prisoner. God used When they started out on the journey, Right before they got to the island safely, doing air quotes for a reason.) &quot;The rest were ship. In this way everyone reached land safely.&quot; God for pieces? Think about it. They started Would you rather ride in on a boat or paddle would rather do, because sometimes God you have and remember your swimming lessons what you have. I want you to learn how I know we would prefer the boat. I know None of us really like change. Right? None of us away, and it got cold for a day, but you were because it's uncomfortable. Yet sometimes the over your situation is to take the piece Everybody knows a boat can get you to shore, Everybody knows a boat can get you to when you made it in on a board, a piece of I'm talking to people who are older. might not work like it used to work, but Your mind might not work like it used to work, One missionary said, &quot;When I can't pray, I can still trust.&quot; The faith to know that I can make it in floating by the grace of God... season of your life when what you had was broken Don't you believe in your life that the shore on a board is bringing you where you're that is with you? God will never call you to have. &quot;I've still got it.&quot; Maybe that's No, you don't have the ship how it looked. you don't have the answers you wanted to have, realize is the board they floated in on was part that the boat went away; it just changed forms. but he will do it in many different ways and The key to this is you believing, &quot;God can he can bring me in on a board. If he can bless Paul said in another Scripture, &quot;I have learned to have plenty (boat). I know how to have not my song is the same. &quot;God can use this too.&quot; Now, here's where it gets interesting, church. on a board and you see people building you a blessing. And it is, but I don't know if Paul made I know the storm wasn't his fault. I know the review. You can see what you think about it. unusual kindness. They built a fire and welcomed the part I want to ask you about. See what you as he put it on the fire, a viper, driven out Here's what I want to ask you. Should Paul have building? It looks like in his effort to help but I've studied about him a lot. I've spent a lot to do in this situation, when he meets a group of he really wanted to do was tell them about Jesus. If it was Jews who were circumcised, if Paul wanted them to know about Jesus. So, what it's called, and worst of all, remember, Paul is good with words. If there had and Peter, Paul would have beaten Peter All of the foundational doctrines we quote the tongue of Paul. Even the posters we high schools... &quot;I can do all things.&quot; &quot;...through Christ who strengthens me,&quot; but we the first part. &quot;I can do all things.&quot; No, Paul was not only brilliant in his ability motivate us. Paul actually could make a show you how Abraham, the progenitor was actually justified by faith not works, line. You do not want to get in a debate God used his words everywhere he went to preach. they worshiped all kinds of idols, he would with his belief, and he could quote their poets get them to Jesus from whatever starting place Not just one language. In one city he got into he language of the day, because they had a different When he spoke in Aramaic, which was the local because Paul was able to speak the Word of God. he used Paul's words to the point our New Testament that we read today much of his life in a prison. While he was in I'm trying to get you a vision today for the the seasons of your life that you think are seasons, but those seasons can actually become, if you have... Paul proves it. &quot;I can take a pen in is so powerful we quote it from our pulpits today. Isn't that amazing? All the way from a so powerful that we would understand our His words. God used his words. But now Paul is but he wants to preach Jesus. I know he does, because that's his mission. That's his purpose. But how do you preach Jesus to people who the ship spoke this language. That's while Paul is waiting to try to figure Of all of the islands, why would God put are not like Paul. We never stop and ask the We just settle for the surface story. &quot;I'm here stupid you were to get there, maybe you could see else from stupid in the future. Look. You are I ran into somebody's car last week. Yeah, and I couldn't find them. I don't want completely honest. I looked at Holly. I she said back. Listen to how sanctimonious she &quot;I would.&quot; What a gentle rebuke. I didn't know what to do. I couldn't find them, on the thing and our number on the thing, and by and we didn't hear from them. I was like, &quot;The Lord will provide.&quot; But then they But listen to this. I was telling my &quot;I ran into a car today.&quot; Do you know what he a sermon?&quot; I said, &quot;I hadn't even thought of that preach it. I know God can use when I do it right, realizing, &quot;Huh. I can use an example of a time of a time that I drove safely, but I just hit I'm trying to get you to see about bigger than a fender. I get it. Some failures an illustration to let you know that the ex nihilo... The God who can bara' can also When it says God created in Genesis 1:16, it It means to take already existing things out of something that already exists. It's when &quot;...think about it,&quot; and you put their words with It's when somebody walks into the studio &quot;Never, ever, ever,&quot; and eventually &quot;Never, ever, ever.&quot; See, sometimes you because you do not recognize what has Wait a minute. Paul got warmed by the fire, wounded him. Have you ever been warmed by a The more warmth a relationship gives you, The more passion you have, the more susceptible creative you are, the more constrictions was a powerful thought for me. He's standing by fire that one moment was bringing him warmth wound for a moment. We may never know if Paul It sounds like the islanders had it pretty &quot;I'm not just standing around. This is ridiculous. to the island, so he's doing something he doesn't not wood. Sometimes, when you step out of your naturally good at doing... Look at what happens in The Bible says it fastened itself on his hand. Verse 4 is the one I really want you to hanging from his hand, they said to each what we know, because we've already read they're calling a murderer is actually So, the man they're calling a murderer is actually a murderer, the one that they were saying, saw the snake. Track with me. He crashes on knows that yet. He's building a fire, and out By the way, you can't build anything ever want to start a church and build a bite. Not y'all. You want to build a want to build a family? You're going to &quot;Bite the hand that feeds you&quot;? That's Now, if you sit back and don't do anything he doesn't get bit, but if he doesn't get wounded, do? Spend the rest of your life trying to avoid trying to avoid getting your heart broken? these people. I could lead them all to Jesus. I Then all of a sudden, because he is not He doesn't really know to look out for snakes. up and bites him on his hand, and now the murderer. &quot;...for though he escaped from the sea, Anytime you try to interpret your See it? &quot;The snake bit. He must be a murderer.&quot; &quot;A you made a stupid decision. God can use stupid. learned, throw another log on the fire, and Paul preaches one of the most powerful sermons The one who changed the world with his when they saw the snake on his hand, they saw it things happen to bad people.&quot; When Paul saw &quot;Of all of the 275 prisoners on this ship who all of these bums who aren't even helping build Have you ever had a moment like, to get married before I do? Them?&quot; The This is how you reward me &quot;This is how you affirm me for preaching the I think the reason Paul got bit by a this. I don't think God made the snake either. I think the snake bit Paul because While we're so busy trying to figure out &quot;Why to get me off this island, God...?&quot; I don't it from the New Testament) that Paul was just showed up with a question. &quot;Why am I really really in this season? Why am Not only why but, &quot;God, how do you want to to use your words. Paul was used to that, but he shook it off into the fire and suffered Paul wanted a way to show them how great God was, but he knew everybody on that island understand how some of the stuff you're but it's something he wants to use. The That's the whole lesson today. If I've confused if I've confused you talking about pulpits... If all of this rhetoric I want you to realize at the time when God gave him something that speaks louder than When they saw him get bit and he shook but after something bad happened, Paul that from Genesis, chapter 3. You don't that's beneath you. You don't argue You don't reason your way out of shame and Sometimes Paul would use and people would be saved. He would speak, and people would understand. It's wonderful way with such an unusual gift, but now he is If you have faith to believe it, here's what I other prisoners on that island, there was only the shipwreck. &quot;If I let this snake bite him... I'm happens.&quot; I'm not saying God is punishing because even if God didn't do it, Paul took that snake and said, &quot;Oh, this. these people since we got on this island.&quot; I've been asking God to use me in this season purpose. I've been asking God to turn it situation new. I've been asking God to &quot;So, this must not be a snake; this must be a gospel of the power of God.&quot; I know you want want him to get you there on the ship. I know you want your kid to flunk the class. I know you I'm just saying that snakes bite because a snake into a sign. Now, a few days later, that snake into the fire. Everybody you today... When they walk past you, just When they look at you kind of funny or they walking. Come on. You have some stuff it's going to be the loudest sermon you right now if Paul would have started argue with the people who were saying Isn't it crazy how if he would have used killed? His primary gift was words, but situation. I need to trust you enough to to reveal who he is, he gives a wound. Then The snake didn't shake Paul's faith. Paul's could be bit and not be bitter. I believe that to preach to. The miracle isn't that you didn't you've been bit. Oh, so when you were lifting bit hands. I almost didn't This dude named Publius, the head man &quot;Bring a prisoner to have dinner with people... Do you think Publius said, &quot;Bring no, no. He said, &quot;Bring me a preacher.&quot; No, because they couldn't understand He said, &quot;There was a guy who got bit and He just shook it.&quot; BA, bold and assertive. &quot;He kept right on standing there.&quot; Publius said, &quot;I question. If Paul didn't survive that snake, do So, what is it that you've been through that God to your purpose? Can I give you a little but this is for the ones who have been off the island. You're not in a hurry to to get back to hell. You're not in a hurry about every little thing. Don't you want Paul, who was a great orator; Paul, who was an who was a philosopher... All of these but do you know what Luke, the medical doctor, said about Paul in Acts 19:11? I just remembered I thought about how the snake bit Paul in a house with his hand that had been and I reflected on it and meditated on it. I said, to Acts 19:11. Look at this verse. Luke says, &quot;Now By the what? What did the snake bite? has blessed you. The fire and the The pain and the purpose came from the a healing hand. When Paul laid his hands on God worked unusual miracles through the longer I spend time in this human you will be bitten. But listen to me. The biggest learned that. It took me awhile to learn that. I &quot;I want this to go away.&quot; I used to think, I used to stand there and argue with snakes. to think I needed to get to another place. I I'm supposed to be in Rome.&quot; I used to curse to live in the nostalgia of the past because Then I learned that when I get bit, it is if your hand is going to be if it's going to be unusually used by God... The unusually bitten. Paul shows us and serves to do in those moments where it's not to look at the thing that is hanging on our hand What the Enemy meant to kill you God can to burn you God can use to free you. What to bring you in. God can use this. God can God likes to use boards to bring to use barbarians to build fires. God I don't know what it is, your this, but I know words also used Paul's wounds. Don't be so You can never really understand what There are some snakes that need to go back in are some things you have allowed to latch on the presence of God. If you stand there and fight if you stand there and hurt about it and hurt made for hurting; they were made for healing. hey thank you for watching the Elevation Church can know when we go live and post new content spoke to you today where you're watching from and to support the ministry financially you can click people around the world for Jesus Christ