Well, thank you. Again it's such a joy and a delight to fellowship bit and saying, "Hello," to those who just a very, very enjoyable and wonderful Thank you again for letting me be here. This is a very, very important question. And I think I would be... I'd find it hard to get any argument on of grace as they are known, folks who are hurdle to get over. If God is sovereign, if God is in control does human responsibility play? Through the years as I have taught the Word is asked me by people who are trying to come gracious election. It is also, I think, the most pervasive, nagging embraced Reformed theology, who still grapple and human responsibility work together. It is unquestionably a paradox, at least apparently. Certainly it is not contradictory to God, appears to us to be contradictory. I know all of you have struggled with this All of you have. I have. It's not a question that goes away. You don't get a short answer. In wanting to prepare my thoughts for this this assignment, I dug into the books that some things on the Internet, and I began to responsibility comes together with divine What I got was a lot of philosophy, a lot a lot of adjectives qualifying absolutely satisfaction. And so in thinking this through, what I decided in this I think, because I'm not really What I want to do is have a Bible study with Can you imagine, we're just kind of hanging Get your Bible. Put all the other stuff away. Just get your Bible. You don't need to be taking notes unless and you have an epiphany, and you must grab I just want to do a Bible study with you, handles this issue. There is a reason why nobody yet has given And I know no one has. You... You may... You may be a teacher of Reformed theology, answer to this difficult dilemma from the Where you have to go with this is to set all So I want to lead you on a Bible study. Okay? You're going to have to move with me a little I like to kind of go down deep into a smaller of ground, and we're going to do a lot of Okay? So get your Bible and your glasses, and let's Isaiah, chapter 10, and I actually am kind what I'm going to say either, so this for I'm in the same position you're in. This is an adventure, but I tested it out liked the idea, but then she's pretty biased, In the 10th chapter of Isaiah, I want you look at the opening statement in that verse, statement. "Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger." Is that not a strange statement? If Assyria is functioning as an instrument Assyria? Woe is an onomatopoeic transliteration of Howy! [hoh-ee]." It speaks of calamity, massive judgment. How can a people come under divine denunciation as a rod of God's anger, that is an instrument The rest of the verse says that Assyria will Assyria, this pagan, godless, idolatrous nation And on whom? On godless Israel. In fact, verse 6 says, "I send it against Judah, the southern part of the kingdom, "and The Jews are now designated as the people God is furious with Israel. He is livid with their unbelief. He holds them fully responsible for their fully responsible for their rebellion and worship. And He commissions the Assyrians to come against Notice verse 6, "to capture booty, and to mud in the streets." That's pretty strong language. Now here you have a divine decree. Here you have divine sovereignty in action. God, as it were, grabs Assyria by the nap be My instrument of fury against the godless rejected and rebelled against Me." And then in verse 7, He says, and this turns not so intend, nor does it plan so in its Assyria is the instrument of God's judgment That is not Assyria's purpose. That is not Assyria's motive. That is not Assyria's intention. They have no interest in the God of Israel. They do not believe in the God of Israel. They are sure that they have no connection They have no intention, no plan to act as What is their purpose? Rather it plans or purposes in its own heart This is just another opportunity for the Assyrian They've already done it to Calno and Carchemish "Their hands," verse 10, "have already graven images were greater than those of Jerusalem And all Assyria knows is, "Look, we knocked judgment had greater divine protection, greater They must be greater than the gods of Israel kingdom. They had no intention of being agents of Jehovah. They were just going to do to everybody left the rest. That was their only motive. They thought they were acting completely independently. They were certainly acting in a godless way. They were certainly acting in a vicious way, way. But if in fact they are the instrument of them from responsibility for what they've If this is divine decree that brings them is irresistible, that grabs them and brings if this is the work of God, then what culpability Can they resist it? And yet in verse 12, and this is an amazing Lord has completed all His work on Mount Zion," of His fury, "He will say, 'I will punish of Assyria and the pomp of his haughtiness.'" As soon as I'm through using them, I'm their sins. The very act that they carried out under divine a high level that God turned on them and brought In a very strange way, perhaps a way you've culpability, full responsibility for every action, every murderous act, every part of will be guilty before God for every bit of a divine decree. And not only did God pronounce judgment on the deeds. Look what it says there, "I will punish," I will punish them for the acts, which is of the king of Assyria and the pomp his haughtiness. For he has said, 'The power of my hand and Wow, is that amazing? He will punish them for their acts. He will punish them for their motives. And He will double punish them for a failure for what they had done. They think they've done it by the power design. They say, "For I have understanding. I removed the boundaries of the people and And like a mighty man, I bought down their "And my hand reached to the riches of the As one gathers abandoned eggs, I gathered flapped its wing or opened its beak or chirped." I just went there and just raided the nests God says, "I'm coming after them for that. I'm coming after them for that motive, for "Is the axe," verse 15, "to boast itself Is that not strange? It's God who's wielding Assyria like an yet God holds the axe head responsible. "Is the saw to exalt itself over the one That would be like a club wielding those who not wood. Therefore the Lord, the God of hosts, will and under His glory a fire will be kindled And the light of Israel will become a fire and devour his thorns and his briars in a And He will destroy the glory of his forest body, and it will be as when a sick man wastes It's another way to look at the juxtapositioning human responsibility, to see it in this negative It's very important for us to understand and... divine decree and divine sovereign to His own purposes and His own intents, that those who do evil. They will be judged by God both for the act glory and to worship Him. By the way, Scripture doesn't say any more It doesn't say any more. Turn to John 3, John 3, very familiar, love A man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus comes He's a ruler, literally in the Greek, the among the Pharisees at least in that area. He comes by night, doesn't want exposure. He said to Jesus, "Rabbi, we know You have No one can do these signs that You do unless He draws the obvious response to the miracles Jesus ignores what he says and goes to the He reads his mind. We just found that out, didn't we? At the end of chapter 2, the last verse, "He concerning man, for He Himself knew what was Here's the illustration. He knew what people were thinking, and He And what Nicodemus said had to do with miracles God. What he was thinking was, "How do I get And Jesus goes to his thoughts. "Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one God." Boy that is a straight shot. Unless you're born again, you cannot see Nicodemus said to Him, "How can a man be Now look, Nicodemus knew what it was to speak He knew what it was to speak in similes. He knew what it was to speak in metaphors. He knew what it was to speak in parables. They did it all the time. That was the normal way of discourse in that He's not a dumbbell. He's not saying, "Oh, how can I be physically He knows this is a spiritual conversation. He knows that. But he also knows that that's not something "How can a man be born when he is old?" How can you be born again? How can you start all over? How can you experience true new life? He can't enter a second time into his mother's In other words the analogy of birth precludes born. You didn't bring yourself into the world be able to do it the second time. And he understands that analogy. So I want to see the kingdom of God, but I I need to start again at the very beginning I can't do that. How does it happen? Jesus answered and said, "Truly, truly, and the Spirit he can't enter the kingdom And here He takes him back to Ezekiel's covenant where you're washed with water, out, you have a new heart, a heart of flesh. This is all part of new covenant regeneration You must be washed, and you must be given the Spirit being planted in you. So He talks to Nicodemus. First, He talks in analogical terms. Then He talks in Scriptural terms. You're talking about the new covenant, aren't You're talking about the time in the purposes heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh, you, when by His own power He plants His Spirit Of course, that's exactly what he's talking enter into the kingdom of God, unless God is saying, and takes out your old heart and and washes you from above, you can't enter Because verse 6, "That which is born of of the Spirit is spirit." Flesh can only produce what? Flesh. So you're dependent on a spiritual work You cannot enter the kingdom unless you are That's the analogy. You can't enter the kingdom of God unless your life and totally transforms it. All you can produce is flesh, flesh, flesh, So you shouldn't be surprised that I say "Born from above" is the actual Greek, Now, if somebody came to you and said, "How I want to be born again." You're there that day, and you're hearing kingdom?" Well, you must be born again. What do I do to be born again? Well, here's three things. Pray these three things. Really? All you have to do is say this, say this, blah." "Blah, blah, blah." "Blah, blah, blah." "Blah, blah, blah." Is that how it works? You just give them three principles, four Or there's one book I read many years ago, That may be a few more than necessary, but Oh, how do you do it? Verse 8, "The wind (or the Spirit, pneuma), What? What kind of an answer is that? If a guy comes to you and says, "What do You must be born again. You must be born from above because all you You have to have power from on high. God has to come down and give you a new heart "Well, how do I do that?" The Spirit blows where it wills. You hear the sound of it. You don't know where it comes from. You don't know where it's going. So is everyone born of the Spirit. "What? What do I do?" Nothing at this moment. If the desire of your heart is for the kingdom, But this is a divine miracle. This is a divine miracle. These are the words of Jesus. Jesus didn't give him three things to pray, He said, "This is a divine miracle." Nicodemus said to Him, "How can these things Jesus said, "Are you the teacher of Israel, We've got a lot of people today who don't That is... That is divine sovereignty. Drop down to verse 27, "John answered and This verse may have escaped you. "A man can receive nothing unless," he Is that what it says? "A man can receive nothing unless it be All you can do is plead for God to give you I walked into a hospital room. There was a guy dying of AIDS, raised in a went to a Christian college, became a leader of the people involved in the gay pride parade dying of AIDS. Somebody called me and said, "He wants to He knows about your ministry. He's in a hospital not far away." So I went to the hospital, and I walked in And when I walked in, the room was full of the homosexuals who worked in the hospital And when I came in, I was like Round-Up. P-shhu, they were out of there. And I walked over... his name was David Chastain. I walked over to his bed, and I took his hand. And he said to me, he said, "I don't want go to hell. I am going to go to hell. What can I do?" I said, "Robert [sic], you can't do anything, in Luke 18, and say, 'God, be merciful to That's all a sinner can do. He can't pray a magic prayer. He can't pray a magic formula. He can't take these three steps. You plead for heaven's divine grace. And so I stood there holding his hand, and years of this sin that had destroyed him. And then I prayed, and I prayed the way I Lord. Save him. Show him your grace. Put your glory on display in your saving grace. Humbly I ask. That's all I can do. If it brings You glory." The same thing I pray over somebody dying with a terminal disease, all I can say is, Be merciful if it's for Your glory. If it pleases You to be merciful, be merciful." And as he poured out his sins, and then pleaded faith in Christ as Savior, dying for sinners his eyes, and he finished his prayer. And I prayed a rather long, pleading prayer his rejection of the truth. You know, you never know in a case like that They've passed the point where they can And it got real still and quiet. And he stared off at the wall, and I just and I said, "What are you looking at?" He said, "I'm looking at the time." And I said, "Why are you looking at the He said, "I want to remember the moment I said, "Robert [sic], have you been born Have you been born again?" He said, "I believe I have." The time will tell. You don't want to give false assurance. He lived another couple of weeks and proclaimed and they stopped coming pretty quick. And he had me drop by and give him things It's divine sovereignty. And yet John 3, it's divine sovereignty. It comes down from heaven. And yet how about this? Go back to verse 15, "So... whoever believes What? He just said it's divine sovereignty. What do you mean whoever believes? That's what it says, isn't it? Doesn't your Bible read that way? How about this? "For God so loved the world, that He gave in Him shall not perish but have eternal life." Verse 18, "He who believes in Him is not already, because he has not believed in the Whoever believes will be saved. Whoever believes will escape judgment. And people are judged because they love the There is a human responsibility for faith, They're put side by side. Verse 36, "He who believes in the Son has You know, you'd think that at least the And if you're looking for a verse in there Turn to John 6, and this is just introduction And I knew I'd get in trouble with this John 6:37, who is going to be saved by divine Verse 37, "All that the Father gives Me Huh? Who is going to come to Christ? Who's coming to Christ? All whom the Father gives to Him. Verse 44, "No one can come to Me unless Who comes to Christ? The people that the Father determines to give draws to Christ. We understand that. And then look at verse 40, right in the middle "This is the will of My Father, that everyone have eternal life." Huh. You see the picture here. The Scripture never equivocates on presenting the very same place. "Everyone who beholds the Son and believes will raise him up on the last day." And you might say, "Well, either you're you, or you're going to raise up anybody But how can both be true?" So verse 36 says, "I said to you that you The problem is you don't believe. The problem is not divine sovereignty. The problem is you don't believe. Human responsibility both for faith and culpability in the passages where sovereignty is emphasized In verse 47, "Truly, truly," let's get "Truly, truly, I say to you." All of that is just to pile on the strength "He who," - what? - "believes has You're all familiar with Acts, chapter 2 of Pentecost, "Men of Israel, listen to to you by God with miracles and wonders and midst, just as you yourselves know." And then this, "This Man," here's the "This Man,... you nailed to a cross by the Is that true? Absolutely true. Were they guilty of that? You better believe they were guilty of that. And judgment came, and it came not too many in 70 AD. Hundreds of thousands of Jews were massacred, The temple was crushed to the ground never And yet in the middle of the verse it says, by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge You see, the Bible doesn't tell... tell four books later sneak in the other side. It's in the same place over and over and So folks, what I'm getting to say is simply I can't resolve this. You just need to enjoy the pain because nobody Scripture goes. And you certainly don't want to come up the reality of both. They are what they are. And if you're under the illusion that you a man who thinks he's a poached egg. In the fourth chapter of Acts, in verse 27, city truly there were gathered together against both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with of Israel," - I love this - "to do to occur." What a statement. You did it, and you are fully guilty, fully to the very smallest detail. You could use the illustration of Judas. Judas, Acts 1, verse 15, prophesied to do same chapter, it says, this man who went out bowels smashed and gushed out on the rocks This man went to his own place. Now, that's my introduction. For the message, turn to Romans 9. I'm having trouble seeing the hands on my How much more time do we have? Are we going somewhere? Okay. Now are you enjoying the pain of the dilemma Are you starting to be comforted in the fact It's where everybody is. It's where God expects you to be. Well, let me give you... this is the... the... I think the locus crusis on this is Romans And I would like... I preached from Romans 9, 10, and 11 for a Can you imagine that? My people were screaming for mercy. "We get it. We get it. We get it." Chapter 12 was like... was like euphoria when When the words came out of my mouth, "Present we're out of 9 to 11. So what I want to try to do tonight is impossible. But I want you to see something. Let's look at Paul as the evangelist. Okay, let's look at him as the evangelist. And what he wants to let us know is he has and it is particularly strong among the Jews people. So in chapter 9, he starts by saying this, not lying, my conscience testifies with me and unceasing grief in my heart." What are you so sorrowful about, Paul? Aren't you supposed to be rejoicing and What's the sorrow? Well, along with perfect joy in his heart What's the thing that makes you so sorrowful? "I could wish that I myself were accursed." That, my friends, is a zeal that I don't I will admit to you that my salvation is so out of my lips. What are you so worked up about? "I could wish myself accursed, separated my kinsmen according to the flesh." You say, "Well, he certainly wasn't Reformed? Huh. No self-respecting Reformed person would get Everybody is going to show up anyway. What are you worrying about? Relax." You identify with that, I know. Paul didn't relax. It fired up his heart. Look what they've had. They're Israelites. They've been given the adoption as sons, Law, the temple service, the promises. They come from the fathers, from whom - that according to the flesh, who is over all. God blessed forever. Amen. And he has a small doxology. It's like a... a doxology is like a release He just wants people saved. Chapter 10 sounds almost like an echo, "Brethren, deesis, "to beg." I talked about begging with sinners earlier This is begging God for sinners. "Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer This is a man who is consumed with the salvation It is a passion that drives him all the way on a block in the city of Rome, an axe head dedicated and devoted and battered body. This is a passion for sinners to be saved. Now Paul knew what was essential if sinners you to see here. Okay? First of all, he understood divine sovereignty. One must recognize that this is a supernatural, And that's his theme in chapter 9. And we don't have time to go through the of this. Verse 6, he says, what, do you think the plan You think God somehow lost control of what No. Israel doesn't believe. My heart is broken over Israel's unbelief, why. "For they are not all Israel who are descended God never intended to save all Jews. Right? No, God has always been selective. The blessing came through Isaac. Then the blessing came through Jacob. Verse 13, "Jacob I loved; Esau I hated." You say, "Wow, you mean God is that discriminating." Verse 14 then says (and this is what their then?" There is... is this unjust? "There is no injustice with God, is there?" Me genoito, the strongest negative in the This isn't out of character for God to be God never intended every Jew to be in the "For He says to Moses," and He goes all He says even to Moses, verse 15, God says, I'll have compassion on whom I'll have And it doesn't depend on the man who wills And then he goes to Pharaoh, "For this very power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed "So then He has mercy on whom He desires, Wow. "You will say to me then, 'Why does He How can God then find fault with us if He's "For who can resist His will?" And the next verse says, "Shut up." That's what it says in the vernacular. "On the contrary, who are you, O man, who The thing molded will not say to the molder, it?" Pots don't talk back. The potter has the right over the clay. "What if God," verse 22, "willing to endured with much patience vessels of wrath Do you understand that God has a right to and His fury on display to His glory as much grace on display to His own glory? Do you understand that God gets as much glory This is really the strongest statement of strong, very strong. Paul understands that, that this a sovereign Psalm 119 says, "Your righteousness is an Psalm 7:9, "You are the righteous One." God will do what God will do. Paul understands that this work of salvation But then come to verse 30. "What shall we say then? Gentiles, who didn't pursue righteousness, Huh. Isn't that something? He's talking about the church, the Gentile They weren't even pursuing it, but they is by...," - what? - "faith." "But Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness," not arrive at that law." Why? "Because they didn't pursue it by faith." Yeah, they didn't pursue it by faith because was to them a stumbling stone and a rock of So he says it's all the sovereignty of God. He hardens whom He hardens. He has mercy on whom He decides to have mercy. He loves who He loves. He hates who He hates. But Israel didn't receive the imputed righteousness by faith in Christ. They are fully responsible for pursuing righteousness the only way that it can ever come to the That's an unambiguous statement. The Gentiles attained righteousness by faith. The Jews forfeited righteousness by pursuing There again, you have the same juxtaposing John 8:24, Jesus said to the Jewish leaders, in your sins." The second thing then you have to understand one the sovereignty of God that salvation requires faith. So the second point is human responsibility. Let's go to chapter 10 just briefly. What's wrong with Israel? Well for one, they rejected Christ. He was a stone of stumbling and a rock of But Paul said here was their problem. "They had a zeal for God," verse 2, "but zealous for Jehovah, the God of Abraham, Isaac, They actually had made a God who was not the They had fabricated a Jehovah of their own the golden calf to represent Yahweh. They had a zeal for God but not in accordance And then he goes on to say, he kind of breaks didn't know about God's righteousness. In other words, to put it simply, they didn't They didn't know God was as righteous as They should have known if they read Leviticus, "Holy, holy, holy, be ye holy for I am holy." But they thought God was less holy than He They thought they were more holy than they They thought their standards were higher than than they are, and therefore they could attain religious achievements. That was the first of their problems. They were ignorant about how righteous God They were also ignorant about how unrighteous The gulf is infinite, impassible. They were also ignorant in verse 3 about the but to submit themselves to the righteousness They were ignorant of the fact that they needed Like the Apostle Paul, who was a Pharisee, his own righteousness until he met Christ, not of my own, Philippians 3, but the righteousness They didn't know God. They didn't know themselves. They didn't know how holy God was, how unholy They did not understand, and therefore they way that righteousness would ever come to to them. They also didn't understand Christ was the who believes. They didn't understand that Christ frees of the law. They lacked knowledge about God. They lacked knowledge about sin. They lacked knowledge about Christ. And of course, they lacked knowledge about They were still doing the practicing righteousness, And if you're going to do that, you're Like Galatians 3 says, if you're going to up being damned. What they didn't understand is in verse Faith, faith, faith. So don't say in your heart, "We'll ascend Don't say, "We'll go down into the abyss." What is that talking about? Spiritually transcendent works, legalistic heaven, or down to the abussos, the abode This is language of self-righteousness. This is language of mystical legalism. They didn't get it. And all the time the Word is near, verse 8, of faith, which we are preaching." That's what we preach: faith, faith, faith, So they didn't know God. They didn't know themselves. They didn't submit to the only righteousness They didn't understand that Christ was the of the law. They didn't understand any of it. And they had heard it, verse 8. It had been preached. They had heard, "If you confess with your that God raised Him from the dead, you'd For with the heart a person believes, resulting resulting in salvation." You want salvation. You want righteousness. Believe. Believe. Is it shocking to you that this chapter on chapter 9? "I'll have mercy on whom I'll have mercy, I'll love who I choose to love and hate Amazing. The Scripture in verse 11, what does it say? Read verse 11, "Whoever," - what? - "believes." "Whoever believes in him will not be disappointed, Greek for the same Lord is Lord of all abounding Whoever will call on the name of the Lord Wow. So dear friend, can I just encourage you? If you've been struggling with this, of You got it. You understand it as perfectly as it can be You understand it as perfectly as Scripture These two things go together, and there is You're there. You're there. You don't need to buy another book. You don't need to get another CD. You don't need another download. You've got it. You've got it. There's a third thing Paul understood. He understood divine sovereignty. He understood human responsibility. And thirdly, he understood evangelical duty, He understood the role that God plays in divine in faith, and he also understands the role "Whoever calls on the name of the Lord," But how will they call on Him of whom they in [Him] whom they have not heard, and how Here's evangelical duty. If you want to understand the marvelous work human responsibility, and evangelical duty the saints. "How will they hear without a preacher? How will they preach unless they are sent?" No wonder it's written, "How beautiful of good things." Verse 17, faith comes from? Hearing, hearing the word of Christ, the message Paul got it. He understood it. He understood that salvation was a work of Salvation required faith, and the sinner himself for faith. And he understood that an essential means come together is gospel duty as we proclaim Our time is gone. So let's go to the end of chapter 11. I was going to take you through 11, but I Let's go to the end of chapter 11. You say, "Look, I'm struggling a little Good. It means you're human. I love this. "Oh, the depth of the riches both of the Are you surprised that you're struggling Get over it. Who do you think you are? Ninety-eight percent water. Are you kidding me? Why should you expect to understand this? "Oh, the depth of the riches both of the That's where we all end up. Folks, this is way beyond us. But we love these truths, don't we? We love the truth of divine sovereignty. We embrace the truth of human responsibility. And we cherish gospel duty. Psalm 39 says, "The ways of God are too Psalm 92 says, "The ways of God are too These mysteries for us are inconceivable, You don't need more information. Okay? You got it. And then verse 34, I love this. "For who has known the mind of the Lord?" That ought to stop all further concerns. What's the answer to the question? Who has known the mind of the Lord? What's the answer? Nobody. No one. No one. That's taken out of Isaiah 40, verse 13. The Septuagint version, "Who has known the Listen folks, not your individual intellect be able to comprehend the incomprehensible, And I like it that way, right? If the Bible didn't have things that were book, written by a committee. And you say to yourself, "Well, this doesn't I'd like to talk to God about it." Oh, really? Who became His counselor? Did you make an appointment to give Him counsel? You have some suggestions. Do you understand God is perfectly independent? He's gotten along very well to this point And then he quotes from Job 41:1 in verse it might be paid back to him again?" Do you think God owes you something? Do you think you've got leverage with God? "Hey, God, I want an answer on this one. You know what I did for you." Really? Do you think God's in your debt? Do you think He owes you an explanation of for? Even though an explanation wouldn't satisfy you got it, and that's why He doesn't I mean, don't you really want some things get to heaven. I mean, doesn't that add an attraction to I don't know about you, but heaven doesn't on a cloud playing a harp. And I know there won't be any golf in heaven and that's no fun. I don't need the perfections of it. I... I'm not looking... I guess I can be happy with transparent gold I can handle that. But what makes life exciting to me is discovery. God owes you no explanation of anything, doesn't of comprehending His mind. At this point, Paul can't contain himself, Him and to Him are all things." Let's say that last line together. "To Him be the glory forever. Amen." Let's pray. What a glorious trek though these profound We love You. We adore You. We are content to understand You to the degree We ask nothing more, nothing more. We have enough. We have enough to worship You, to love You to be lost in wonder, love, and praise. Save us from foolishly thinking we deserve making suggestions to you. We give you all the glory and will forever You redeemed us with Your sovereign love. We love You, O God. We love You, Christ. We love You, blessed Holy Spirit. Amen.