We create America's own national endeavors for the benefit of Why don't we have a wealth fund? We have nothing. election, Donald Trump and Joe Biden thing the wisdom of creating some form States, but that they've worked for some they'd work for the world's largest So it's really interesting that in this leaving, both Trump and Biden are national sovereign wealth fund in the The idea that we should somehow be government authority to make broad country or the economy of other Over 80 countries around the world have funds that invest the country's cash citizens and the economy globally. FS totaled $12.8 trillion, up more than We have invested in 9000 companies We own one and a half percent of all the In Europe, we own close to 3%. estate. of Norway's sovereign wealth fund valued It's a big fund in a small country, And you have a lot of stakeholders, have a have a say and and pretty much Right. I would say the ministry has been the fund. country, but we need to navigate all And, interesting exercise. pension Fund Global topped the list of S.A.F.E. Middle East, Abu Dhabi's and Kuwait. It's no coincidence that so many of the funds like Norway are rich in oil and The usual context is when you have a government and at the national level have all this huge fund and often you And so you want to go and invest it Initially, the strategy was estate. natural resources, although they also countries. Northeastern University who has studied and how their mandates and strategies Now they have become very sophisticated. and also a huge, huge push towards green So that's another kind of like big asset So if have switched from investing more publicly traded companies. you know, what many markets, many investment. Tangles. I am in some ways sets the pace for So Norway is the poster child of it's super transparent in their goals. Ethics, which has existed for a long would only invest in companies that they You are the CEO of the largest sovereign Where did it come from? Well, it's very interesting. 69 and it was the last attempt. well. they would just have needed to pack up It was announced that the Norwegian 69 and and in many countries, it had industries and alleged corruption and so And so the so the. this fund and it was set up in 96. and it's now grown to 19,000 billion Along with its scope, its mission has I wonder if there's another function of In fact, it's described in some of your almost wealth transfer from the current Is there a function for that, even if Perhaps there are some philosophical But I do think you would need to have. the wealth for for the future. to spend in the future. gains like like we've had on the lot of sense. maximize return, but also with an indicators economic stability, climate, Do those things come into contention No, I don't think they do, because we climate risk is a financial risk. you know, if you have we own one and a world, and if we have one company all the other companies we have, we need We need to care about the climate. a deteriorating climate is causing worse now in coffee, olive oil, orange juice And so it's basically a financial risk. it's increasingly the case. investments that might have an adverse coal? company involving brown coal. And that's a separate entity from us is And they exclude things for ethical So there are a lot of different types of We don't, do we? We don't do tobacco, for instance. governments in Norway, for example? strategy vary with who's in power? philosophy, and I think that's really fund, is that our investment mandate is All the political parties agree on kind guidelines for the for the fund. of government or investment philosophy Given your emphasis on the environment, companies in their commitment? There is a backlash against ESG and So it's moving slower than we would have for it. you know, I do think if you are really serious about your stakeholders, about you need to take these things seriously. focus on transparency in its holdings If you go there and they all are there, that's like all glass to represent their They are very open. everything is publicly available. And they are I think they are an example follow the central principles, how to lead in the long term to better The Santiago principles are a set of 24 wealth funds created in 2008 by the IMF order to address concerns about risk How do you compare it with other I mean, there's one in Singapore, How are you similar? Yeah, there are a lot of really fine I would say how we Well, one, we are we are 100% You can we even have a live tracker on value of the fund and you know, how What do you think? So that's really, really live value of at number in the country, which is quite Then we are we are very long term. And and then we also have I think the anchored The fund's website tells us just how 72% is in equities. income, and the rest is in real estate How do you look for alpha when you go What sorts of indices do you look at? which outperform their peer group, um, compound at higher rates, high return on These returns can be sustainable. How much of it is ground up that is sectors or certain styles? company specific. We have, you know, roughly 100 portfolio and they try to outperform the market on We try to have a longer term time So typically, we would measure results And I think that's important in this your thinking. Last time I checked, 70% in equities. Does that vary and who decides to vary Well, it's the ministry who decides. for a long period of time. to 60% during the financial crisis. probably the biggest buyer of equities Now, in retrospect, that turned out to Unlike some of its peers, none of the You didn't mention private equity or Why do you not invest in those? So we only invest in listed equities. that we should be allowed to go into But so far, we we cannot do it. and then we'll see where that will lead, we should have all the tools in the in But for the moment, we haven't. toolbox, few would argue that Norway's but a success for the country. always the case around the world. One of them is the one MDB from The other one is the one from Libya. poor corporate governance. The funds capture by the politicians.