General Gnaeus Julius Agricola stood on the It was beginning to rain and a misty drizzle This truly was a savage place - a place where as they had on his Mediterranean home. He looked out across the deep waters of the outer edge of the known world. The campaign was over, but Agricola had one After four decades of sporadic conquest and to finally enter the Highlands of northern the remaining native resistance and determine Agricola would go on to confirm that the British seas, exploring undiscovered coastlines and Calgacus, the leader of the local barbarians, said that beyond these shores lay only rocks That was probably true, but as he watched sunset, Agricola wondered... He cast his mind back thirty years to when Claudius had just begun his conquest of Britain. Agricola had been a student in Massalia, ancient Marseille, a Greek-founded city. Under Roman rule it was a respected centre legendary Greek seafarer Pytheas. Four centuries earlier, in the time of Alexander and explored the furthest limits of the ocean He had claimed to have seen a further great It was his belief that three vast islands Ireland, and Thule. "Pytheas states that he set foot on every part of Britain. He also gives an account of Thule and describes are no longer separate elements. Instead, there is a thick compound resembling over the ocean and land merging and binding This material cannot be travelled over, or In the long half-light before the first stars horizon. Was the legendary island of Ultima Thule out lingered? And so he mused to himself...if he had come Beneath him the Roman fleet had reassembled storm. The war galleys and support vessels were making who were pushing forward into the Highlands Agricola watched as the ships shifted on an He would have told his fleet commander what to expect out there... Roman knowledge of the North sea suggested that latitudes beyond Britain would be subject to frozen currents and biting cold winds from the far north. And beyond Britain the sea became cold and began to solidify. This process began with platelets of floating jellyfish. But as the cold increased, these ice plates then crush timber vessels. Agricola had seen with his own eyes over an early frost. Truly a 'compound resembling a sea-lung', prior. And so - were the Roman military about to Would the explorers sent out by Agricola soon and semi-mythical land? But of course this was not the first time the Romans had explored beyond the limits of the known world or crossed the boundaries of knowledge. A long sequence of adventure, conquest and the familiar, to the boundaries of the unknown. Centuries of expansion had pushed the Eternal the far north, but far east, west and south And so this is that story. This is the story of the Edges of the Empire. The Roman soldier's diet was mainly wheat that soldiers in the Republic were paid in This video has been sponsored by Factor, out there - and something that those legionaries Personally, factor is great for saving me Their healthy menus are updated weekly and You can choose your favorite meals, or let preferences and meal history. They offer Keto, Calorie Smart, Chef's Choice, It is an amazing timesaver, and meal plans add more or reduce the number depending on You can even skip a week if you need to. So, head to FACTOR75 dot com or click the off your first Factor box. Thanks to Factor for supporting history In the third century BC, the embattled Roman powerful network of Italian city-state allies. But in the century that followed, proud legions prosperous island of Sicily and laid claim to territories Finally, after generations of persistent rivalry beaten and beleaguered Carthaginians on the Following a three-year siege, the monumental was at last concluded. The Roman general Scipio Aemilianus oversaw the seaport of Carthage. He gave orders that the Roman army should path. During six days of savage fighting in the to 'clear the thoroughfares'. The wounded and dying citizens were dragged from collapsing buildings. Then both living and dead bodies were cast remains. Appian writes: the debris with axes, mattocks, and pronged With these iron instruments the dead and the debris before being hurled together into pits. The trenches were filled with the dead and Finally, over 50,000 traumatised survivors, surrendered. They were secured in the iron chains of the Surrounded by his closest advisors, Scipio from a distant vantage point. As the ruins of Carthage smouldered down to stood very still in quiet reflection. The battle was over. The threat of death was gone and the thrill He became lost in thought. Was this the ultimate destiny of all empires? Appian records: which had flourished 700 years from its foundation. It had ruled over so many lands, islands, It had been prosperous with great armies and It had been equal to the mightiest monarchies, [...] Now the city had met its end in a final Scipio, beholding this spectacle, is said destiny of his enemy. A Greek advisor called Polybius, who was standing Homer - a verse from the Iliad concerning The great campaign was over, but what next? Perhaps, thought Polybius - a new Odyssey He turned his back on the broken city and awaited. Could he become a new Odysseus? Rome was victorious, Carthage was gone, and property of the expanding Roman Empire. The sea-lanes leading into the Atlantic were unknown lands lay beyond the Mediterranean Scipio was determined to destroy all remnants The Carthaginians had established small colonies of North Africa (modern-day Morocco). Had these Atlantic connections provided the good fortune? Perhaps. So Scipio offered his Greek advisor Polybius him to find the westward limits of Carthaginian And so his journey west began. By following the African coast, Polybius passed to enter the Atlantic. But he was crossing through more than a physical He was intruding into the domain of gods, Deities always existed, where practical experience As they passed into uncharted regions, Polybius themselves for supernatural hazards as well To begin with, it was said that the world-bearing his shoulders. Indeed, the fossilised remains of this godlike Mountains. Perhaps his massive form would be glimpsed far beyond the tallest peaks. The Romans strained their eyes looking inland of the primordial Titan. At the edge of the Mediterranean a high cliff-like coast. This was the Rock of Gibraltar which formed the gateway between the Mediterranean and It was said that the legendary demi-god Hercules the seas and enter the Atlantic - though other an existing sea-passage, so that giant oceanic Mediterranean. This rock hewn passage was the strait through As he passed this legendary spot, Polybius forebears, who had themselves heard second-hand For it had been in the sixth century BC that Navigator' had voyaged beyond the Pillars of the African continent. Hanno had left an account of his voyage - this among Roman authorities in an abbreviated It was said that Hanno had commanded a settler - but south of Morocco the Carthaginians had The Greek writer Arrian read the translated "...as Hanno sailed south, he encountered heat and streams of lava gushing into the Perhaps these explorers had sailed beyond and witnessed volcanic lava spilling into More terrifying were the human-like creatures Hanno had reported: savages. Most of them were women with hairy bodies, Although we chased them, we could not catch They all escaped, since they were good climbers However, we caught three women. They refused to follow those who carried them So we killed them and flayed them and brought We could not sail any further, because our These pelt-like skins had been taken to Carthage Goddess Tanit - macabre trophies lingering repeated voyage. For almost four centuries the hides hung silently when the Romans looted the city and burned By contrast, the temperate shores of western who sailed to distant northern islands in Somewhere out in the Atlantic Ocean were trade and Ierni (Ireland). The Celtic peoples of southern Britain supplied found copper to produce sturdy, alluring bronze Other strange materials reached the Mediterranean valuable Baltic amber. This was thought to be the congealed rays Sometimes strange tropical insects could be desirable substance. Perhaps they were evidence of an undiscovered And so it was, that after the destruction Roman fleet commanded by Polybius. Passing cautiously through the Pillars of of Morocco. The Roman writer Pliny the Elder records: that, in a westerly direction beyond Mount wild animals that Africa produces... Beyond this is the river Non, which is full From the Non there is a line of mountains call 'The Chariot of the Gods'. With their greatest rival, Carthage, removed the western gateway of the Mediterranean and The coastal ports of western Gaul now within A new direction for exploration, contact and The routes of Roman fortune were now opened In another region of the ancient world, another also suddenly overcome by emotion at his very Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus, Pompey the Great, semi-embalmed corpse of his royal enemy Mithridates. Those given the task of preserving the royal and the putrid object set before him filled Nevertheless, one of the greatest foes the Pompey's grand campaign for vengeance, exploration The year was 65 BC and yet another great kingdom its relentless legions. The Pontic King Mithradates VI, Eupator had the Crimean Kingdom of the Cimmerian Bosporus. This had been his last refuge, and the king humiliation as a captive in Rome. In his pursuit of Mithridates, Pompey the passed through the dark forests of Colchis the turbulent Black Sea and the mysterious Now that the archenemy of Rome was dead, the he had made in these far eastern territories. The heavily forested territory of Colchis, been a dangerous and largely unknown region fringed mountain ranges. Near where the Rioni river emptied into the named Phasis. A frontier trading outpost that retained its statues of classical gods stood in the harbour of barbaric local cults. The site was a hub for numerous merchants and dubious representatives from the nearby And so it was Phasis that had served as the Indeed, not even Alexander the Great had dared This meant Colchis was the subject of longstanding to encroach on the realm of the gods. Many in Rome must have wondered - what had the known world? Greek myth had long warned of the dangers will of the Gods. It was said that the Titan Prometheus had thought and reason. But this primaeval deity had suffered eternal to technology - an understanding of fire. On the orders of Zeus, Prometheus had supposedly of the Caucasus Mountains. Bound on a high mountain peak, a giant eagle of the helpless immortal. Ancient Colchis was too immortalized in the the Golden Fleece in this forbidding region. Accounts of gold dust and giant dragon-serpents these unexplored mountains. The main anchor from Jason's ship the Argo a monument to the ancient myth. Some visitors doubted the authenticity of un-weathered iron, but there sceptics were better fitted the antiquity of the myth. And so this was the place where King Mithridates Rome, and this was where Pompey had to follow But Pompey was also eager to lead his soldiers According to Appian: visited by the Argonauts, Castor and Pollux, He especially desired to see the place where Caucasus. From the Pontic Kingdom, Pompey marched on Colchis was now cut-off from Armenia and Iran, of the mysterious Caspian Sea. Instead, he headed inland to find the Rioni This connected him with the Roman fleet operating But once more he discovered that Mithridates Pompey thought of pursuing the fugitive with where Prometheus had been chained by Zeus. Would a Roman general dare look upon the site his eternal punishment? But suddenly, a new plan entered the mind He realised that he would only retain his to Rome. While the defeated king was confined to the Roman conquest. Plutarch reports: to claim Syria and march through Arabia to His victorious career would therefore touch sides. For in Africa he had been the first to conquer made the Atlantic Ocean the western boundary In his recent pursuit of the Albani, he had So, now Pompey put his army in motion, determined of his military expeditions. Pompeii marched south with his legions, seizing to the Roman Empire. In Jerusalem, Pompeii and his entourage entered of the Jews. They ignored all appeals and threats by the upon the artefacts of the Lord. As his men held back the protesting High Priest, incense and stepped forward, to vanish behind inner sanctuary. His soldiers waited for the general to reappear of the Jews. Would he smash it before the distraught priests, procession through the streets of Rome? Time passed, --- but he did not immediately Josephus records at Pompey had simply examined but removed nothing. He reappeared empty handed - - - and then But Pompey continued the march south. The Nabatean Kingdom in northwest Arabia was encamped near the rock-cut city of Petra. All the threats of divine curses and catastrophes under imperial control. The region belonged to Rome and the outer But the campaign led by Pompey had far exceeded This was irrefutable when news reached him There had been an uprising in the Cimmerian a final escape from the pursuits of the Romans. The war was done. Pompey received the messengers and was presented But the general chose not to look upon the great fall from regal power and glory - for aspect of his mission must also cease. Pompey had failed to encounter any monsters Caucuses. But at Phasis, the Romans did find Indian from the Caspian Sea. These Indian goods came from Bactria (Afghanistan) Pompey had discovered a possible route to Parthian Empire. But who amongst ordinary merchants and travellers and dangerous lands? Not Pompey. Fifteen years later he finally met his fate Defeated by Julius Caesar in the Roman Civil his own officers and murdered. When his severed head was presented to Caesar, horror. Despite the political conflict, Caesar mourned From that moment on, it would be Caesar and further expansion of the Roman Empire. Eudaemon Arabia, in ancient Yemen, had been But now the harbour-buildings were engulfed ascending into the sky. For Eudaemon Arabia had been the victim of and feasibility of a maritime campaign-route It was the prelude to war. Planned as a precursor to a larger invasion Aelius Gallus, the attack was ordered by Augustus, true Emperor of Rome. But what great prize or knowledge had brought The answer could be found in the acrid stench up into the darkening sky, like some perverse Incense. Arabian incense was sacred to many ancient Whether you were Roman, Greek, Jew, or Persian, desiccated tree saps ascended skyward, it Indeed, incense was a much more appealing animal sacrifice. But it was not not easy to obtain. Arabia was a remote land of extreme deserts grew only on its southern coasts. The cliffs and promontories of this seaboard and the region was seldom entered by outsiders, by lacerating the wiry incense trees was sent trade stations near the Mediterranean or the These Incense Trails crossed a thousand miles merchants carried their precious loads on Incense was so valuable that even small pouches using multiple pouches of gold and silver Early accounts of the Biblical King Solomon from the Queen of Sheba. The 'Book of Kings' contains the verse: caravan, with camels that bore incense, and And when she was come to Solomon, she communed Indeed, in 332 BC Alexander the Great acquired the Phoenician city of Tyre on the Syrian A decade later, with his Persian conquests Arabia by launching a fleet from the Persian But his sudden, unexplained death in Babylon Three centuries would pass before another And so it was 25 BC when the Emperor Augustus to the Roman domains. Although this was an economic decision as Five years earlier, when Egypt became an imperial spending across the Empire when vast wealth to be awarded to Roman citizens. Augustus understood that large quantities the hands of Arab merchants through the incense This was an outpouring of finite imperial Why then, shouldn't the Romans possess this most sacred to their gods? Strabo reports: the Arabians had become very wealthy from gold and silver. But they never exchanged any part of this Augustus therefore expected to deal with wealthy With this conquest, the Romans could even which dominated Iran and controlled the Persian And so - war. In preparation, the Roman Governor of Egypt, soldiers, equivalent to two complete legions. At first the Romans assumed that a seaborne provide the best route to reach the Sabaean But the reports were not favourable. The Red Sea coasts of Arabia were barren and and dangerous uncharted reefs. It was therefore decided that the Roman conquest through the hostile desert along the mysterious Gallus crossed from Egypt into the neighbouring This territory was still subject to the Empire at the oasis city of Petra. In neighbouring Judea, King Herod the Great the Romans on their campaign. Led by Nabatean military guides the Legionaries flanked the main routes into Petra. They must have marvelled at the salmon-coloured into these steep rock-facades. This was only the outer frontier of the lucrative across the shifting sands. Surely there were greater wonders in the as The campaign force successfully captured a a network for future Roman travel. But their progress was extremely slow and their supplies dwindled. A suspicion began to form in the minds of What if the Nabateans had contrived some treachery in the lucrative incense trade? Finally, the Romans did reach the Sabaean Rocky hills rose into view and groves of palm Great dams had been constructed to collect this desert periphery. Crops provided sustenance for cluttered mud-brick On the plains before the settlements, ranks poorly equipped mob-like defenders with little The Sabaean army fled to their cities and The legions had almost reached their objective. But as the siege of Marib continued, a mysterious Their limbs weakened and their teeth began Maybe they were offending the gods by seeking Had the stricken Roman army fallen from divine The effects were real and the psychological Roman medics could not diagnose the true cause to withdraw before the entire army succumbed. Perhaps the condition was scurvy caused by Nabatean supply-lines must have been at their stripped all food resources from the land Finally, the increasingly diminished and demoralised to Nabatean territory. Strabo reports: was only two days' journey from the country But he had used up six months on his outbound Gallus reached Petra in sixty days, but many disease, and insufficient supplies. Gallus possibly went on to report that something to people from Mediterranean climates. And so even though Arabia had been invaded never be permanently conquered or added to This route to India was closed. In AD 52, a group of distinguished royal envoys audience hall of the Roman Emperor Claudius. These astonishing strangers, with their dark They were the mysterious 'Counterlanders' the influence of different stars. Pliny records: the heavens visible in our country. They observed the stars that formed the Great Minor) and the Pleiades. They told us that in their own country even the 8th to the 18th day of the month. They said that Canopus, a large and brilliant But what surprised them most was that their theirs. Also, the sun rose on the left-hand side of These 'Counterlanders' came from an island and Roman merchants as Taprobane - ancient This was the most distant diplomatic contact It seems that a tax-collecting Roman businessman, with this semi-legendary region. The result was this remarkable event - the for political friendship and commercial alliance But this wasn't the first time the Indian Greco-Roman world. Half a millennium earlier in 518 BC, the first of the Persian army commanded by the Achaemenid Herodotus reports: He observed how crocodiles could be seen in Wishing to know how it connected to the sea, Scylax of Caryanda to sail down the river. ...they sailed westward and after a voyage Egypt [...] Once the voyage was completed, made use of the sea in those regions. Two centuries later, Alexander the Great led on his own mission of conquest and exploration. In the high mountain passes leading to the they detected signs of their own gods and Could the wild vines and creepers growing God of revelry and wine, had passed by this And perhaps the mountain people who fought of Hercules? Alexander launched his own fleet on the Indus south toward the ocean that encircled the Marvels were seen on the coast including giant Out at sea the humps of blue whales rose and of great leviathans in the unknown depths. Arrian reports: are fishes much larger than those that exist Nearchus records that when they departed at from the sea as if it was being propelled The crew were astonished and asked the pilots They replied that creatures roving about the The sailors were so startled by this sight But Nearchus encouraged and cheered them onward. As he sailed past the galleys, he signalled as if to give battle. Then raising their war-cry they advanced with With this great sound the sailors regained Then, as they neared the monsters, they shouted oars pounded the water. The whales, now visible at the bows of the depths. Under the command of Alexander, Greek military of the Indian Ocean. But this was not to be. Plans were made for the conquest of southern in Babylonia, his empire was divided between regional dynasties. The possibility of trade and communication centuries. And so it wasn't until 118 BC in one of the - Ptolemaic Egypt - that contact between west The House of Ptolemy had established ports Greek hunting parties south by ship to capture This created a military network with an infrastructure for distant voyages. By chance one of these royal patrol ships clinging to its wooden frame. Strabo explains: was brought to the king by the patrol ships They said they had found him alone and half-dead under the charge of Greek instructors so that When he had learned Greek, he explained that His ship had lost its course due to a strange had died from starvation, he had safely reached When his story was doubted, he promised to A group of men were selected by the king and Eudoxus (of Cyzicus) was a man inclined to new regions and he was well-informed about Departing on his first voyage in 118 BC, Eudoxus a rich cargo of spices, pearls, and precious From this moment onward, the realms of India merchants who made voyages across the distant But the commerce did not reach its full potential and Augustus was proclaimed the first Emperor. At the beginning of the first century AD Roman India - the deep hulled merchant vessels were the line of reefs, swells and shallows that And so this island, known to the Romans as Roman seafarers even feared that Taprobane continent - the Antipodes as suggested by otherworlds, occupying the southern hemisphere. But these speculations were finally challenged the arrival of the Counterlanders. Pliny relays the story of why the Counterlander Roman trade vessel ship blown off course: the 'Counterlanders', was long considered Plocamus had obtained a contract from the One of his freedman agents was sailing round from the north and swept beyond the coast After a fortnight they made the harbour of The unfamiliar looking lost Roman tax collector extraordinary cargo inspected by royal agents. The strange vessel and its prized cargo seemed The ship was carrying a large consignment that had been destined for the southern Arabian The Sinhalese king and his royal ministers They scrutinised the metallic faces of distant portraits of Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, The reverse of these coins depicted the outline the images of unknown gods. Within six months the Roman traveller had with his hosts. Could the accounts he told them of his home true? Pliny records how the Sinhalese king sent and introduce the Anuradhapura Realm as a One of the final notable acts of the Emperor exotic ambassadors. This meant that during his time as emperor, diplomatic contacts with Sri Lanka - distant After this remarkable contact, Roman ships Lanka and the Anuradhapura Kingdom. Roman captains developed faster voyages across they extended their ventures to trade ports A series of ambitious unnamed merchants, each added to the range and scope of Roman trade These commercial explorers headed ever further towards the mysterious Seres - the Silk And so the Romans kept pushing the boundaries Centurions from the Praetorian Guard had trekked - south of Egypt. Now, finally they were entering the royal African kingdom in these distant lands. These Roman officers, caked with the debris more than 900 miles from the frontiers of The Empire had already conquered and controlled that faced southern Europe. But this narrow strip was only a fraction Inland from the fertile coastal zones, Africa desert wastelands - the Saharan Desert covering 3,000 miles wide, stretching from the Red Extending nearly a thousand miles from north landmass of the entire Roman Empire. In the ancient past, Berber caravans with able to cross this brutal landscape. But the extreme conditions confined the Romans Though there was another route across this After the Romans conquered Egypt, they had Nile River. But they were reluctant to extend their rule This zone was under the control of an African The earliest Greek legends recalled an era African pharaohs with distinctive dark complexions The Twenty-fifth Dynasty, that had ruled Egypt with the famous Greek author Homer who composed Homer had recited the legend of Memnon, the army north to support the Trojans in their Memnon, was a warrior of great skill and valour, Greek hero Achilles. The Romans regarded the Trojans as their legendary Surely as potential allies? Based on Greek knowledge of Africa, the Romans south of the vast Saharan Desert. Early accounts had confirmed that these distant regions. These were the homelands of Africans known Pythagorean theory also suggested that nature had an equivalent opposite. Africa therefore had similar dimensions to an east-west direction equivalent to the Danube But where was its origin? Determined to learn the truth of the great into the central Sahara led by a commander In 20 BC Balbus crossed the inner desert headed He conducted a rapid campaign, marching 600 through the open desert that took at least The Romans captured the main oasis centres perplexed by the outflow of endless fresh They reasoned that perhaps the Garamantes Did the Nile actually flow beneath the desert? In reality the Garamantes were accessing prehistoric These underground water sources were the residue the earth in earlier millennia. The Romans who surveyed this arid terrain nor could they begin to fathom the extraordinary Hence, the underground river theory provided Beyond this, all Balbus discovered was desert. Though he did celebrate a Triumph in Rome, It seems that Augustus and successors were and its emergence from distant origins unanswered. But not for long. For when the Romans seized direct control AD 40, new discoveries were made. Ancient Mauritania was situated on the Mediterranean Algeria to Morocco. The sudden Roman annexation provoked an uprising Two legionary armies were redeployed to suppress named Gaius Suetonius Paulinus - and Gaius In AD 41 Paulinus marched his army south towards limits of the kingdom. He led his legionaries through sweltering strange and startling animals including tarantulas, Undeterred, Paulinus ascended and crossed still covered with snow even during the height From these high vistas, Paulinus surveyed the glint of a river flowing on the arid desert He led his troops down into the scorching distant river, they discovered it to be a Paulinus abandoned his expedition. This was the furthest territory that the Romans 'western' Nile. Pliny the Elder hinted at the true purpose An exploring party...was recently sent by It seems that, among his other wars, he is (Inner Africa). And so, in AD 61, the Praetorians left Roman an audience with the king of Meroe. Posing as diplomats and explorers, the Roman resources on an estimated 945-mile trek from Ancient Egyptian texts recorded about twenty-five However, on their trek south, the Romans discovered centuries earlier - Praetorians following ruins of outposts and temples built by past Based on these reports, Pliny argued: This region was worn out by alternate periods wars with Egypt, having been a famous and the Trojan Wars. The Nubian Desert ended near the outskirts Here the land finally became fertile and forested. Pliny records: stretches of forest come into view where the On arrival at Meroe, the trail-weary Praetorians for an audience with the ruler of the city. They were eventually taken to the royal audience In the gloom of the temple-like palace hall, ornamental pillars. Tall reliefs displayed images of strange lion-headed conflicts. A century earlier, Merotic armies had stormed Taking some Roman prisoners and decapitating reliefs in Meroe depicted Roman soldiers made It was a reminder that the Empire of Rome the empire. The leading tribune of the praetorians stepped king - a message from the golden Emperor Nero, Rome. For Nero wanted something from inner Africa. The praetorians waited while the king considered The acrid scent of Somali incense filled the brilliant sunlight and penetrating through Unfamiliar faces with uniquely dark complexions Exhausted by their travels through strange struggled to maintain their composure. Their fear and unease was justified - Meroe here. But the King of Meroe...offered them support. Seneca confirms that: gave them letters of introduction to the neighbouring Then they set out on their long journey into The course of the Nile did not extend westward The Praetorians found themselves pushing deeper 600 miles until they reached a seemingly impassable The Sudd. This is a primordial wetland in Southern Sudan and thick mats of rotting vegetation. In the rainy season it becomes a vast humid Those who entered this region had to endure the threat of starvation. The Sudd was too deep to be safely crossed be explored any further by boat. It was also vast. It included almost 300 miles of swollen wetland. The heavy clay soils retained and expanded the vision of any explorers. The water teemed with strange sharp-finned watch for the outline of crocodiles among The dense hulking shapes of hippopotami would bursts as the travellers passed by. They were to be avoided in case these monstrous crew and craft. The Praetorian must have realised that these and smash their small vessels. What use were swords and javelins against All the while, the persistent sun blazed down These sluggish pools teamed with clouds of level this water was a living poison. Miniscule water-borne parasites infected the stomach cramps and diarrhoea. Skin sores, cuts and lesions would not heal It must have seemed to the despairing Romans edge of nature where matter became indistinct, Finally, sodden and exhausted the Praetorians The Tribune gazed out across the endless shimmering On their return to Italy, the Roman explorers We came to great swamps, the borders of which We could not find the limits of this place. The river was completely entangled with vegetable foot because of the muddy overgrowth. But we saw two rocks from which an immense Perhaps, they prudently suggested, this was issuing forth like a fountain to flood the From the reports given by the explorers, Roman the main invasion routes into Sub-Saharan Pliny describes this object as 'the schematic Emperor Nero'. Nero set his plans into action. An imperial residence was prepared in the sent to the city in preparation for an imminent Legions X Fretensis and V Macedonica were Africa. But it was not to be. There was an uprising against the Romans in Europe rebelled against the Emperor. Eventually, even the Praetorians withdrew an enemy of the state. The fugitive emperor fled the imperial palace pain and humiliation of a public execution. The Romans would never find the true source would turn northwards. Much of Northern Europe was covered in a dense the Hercynian Forest. Tall deciduous trees towered over the thick canopy that hemmed in and overshadowed anyone expanse. It was a disorientating wilderness, utterly Savage wild animals lived in these places or ambush those who trespassed through their Scattered somewhere in this silent eerie forest massacre. Butchered remains of three entire legions and displayed on trees in strange Germanic hostile gods. What could possibly tempt Roman adventurers The answer was amber resin. Early Greek theory suggested that amber was a frozen atmosphere. It had already been established that the cold a solid substance and condense the air into But over time this idea had changed. Burning amber chippings produced the smell insects, scorpions, beetles, and wasps embedded This would suggest that that the material However, the process that transformed sap Might the Romans discover the mystery? Was there a land of perpetual daylight concealed And so Nero's interest had been piqued. Another envoy had returned to Rome having frontiers of the Empire for the emperor. He had followed trade routes north beyond hostile and unknown territory to acquire a the frozen oceans of the far north - Baltic A fossilised tree resin found in deep sub-surface remains of a vast coniferous forest from the The erosion of this strata by turbulent North the shores where it was gathered by ancient Germanic populations offered amber to the the rivers of central Europe to reach outposts and the Mediterranean. Centuries before the Roman era, amber from the Greek world. It was cut, ground and polished into ornaments value of precious gemstones. It was a strange and intriguing material used shields of Carthaginian soldiers. Greek myth suggested that pieces of amber when they heard of his demise. They were the offspring of Helios, the sun semi-divine youth, to drive the sun chariot. But the boy lost control of the speeding vehicle frozen north. In Roman Syria, amber was prized for the household It had electrostatic properties and would Amber was therefore known as 'harpax' Pliny observed that when amber was warmed or straw and catch the fine fringes of garments'. Noting these strange properties the Greeks one'. Yet, the peoples of northern Europe remained outbreak of the Cimbric War. In about 120 BC, a sudden environmental shift Peninsula, destroying farmlands, herds and Faced with starvation, the Germanic peoples migration into Gaul. Merging with Celtic warriors and moving with as they pushed south towards Roman Italy. In 101 BC after more than a decade of conflict the last of these Germanic invaders. But the distant homelands of these people The Roman annexation of Germania finally began his adopted son Nero Claudius Drusus in command campaign of conquest and exploration. Crossing the Rhine, the armies led by Drusus North Sea near the Jutland Peninsula. When Drusus died from an injury on campaign, as the replacement commander, who launched and secured Greater Germania for the Empire. Augustus boasted of these achievements in I restored the provinces of Gaul and Spain, Cadiz to the mouth of the river Elbe. [...] I commanded my ships to sail the ocean bordering the Cimbri, where no Roman had gone The Cimbri, the Charydes, the Semnones and seeking alliance with me and the Roman people. But the Roman advance would not be a lasting In AD 9 the Germans staged a rebellion and and wild Teutoburg Forest. The elderly Augustus suffered a severe reaction - Drusus and Tiberius seemed to have set the the northern fringe of Europe. To many Romans it then seemed as if they were to conquer and pacify Germania. The Emperor Tiberius continued the conflict, a severe storm while ferrying a land army The disaster was described by a Roman poet The work has not survived, but a passage quoted the northern ocean. Pedo wrote: far behind. They are long exiled from the well-known limits They have dared to go into the forbidden gloom-filled and reach its farthest shores. Now they behold the Ocean, which has monsters On all sides are savage sharks and dogs of Crashing waves and wrathful billowing winds water and swelling them with fear. As their fleet is caught by swift winds they The remorseless fates will mangle them or ocean. One man stands defiant on the high prow. He cries out the thoughts of his imprisoned Should we even be searching for nations who We are violating foreign seas and sacred waters Why do we trouble the untouched dwelling-places During the storm, the great fleet was smashed of life, equipment, and prestige. In the aftermath of the disaster, Tiberius region and Greater Germania remained permanently Due to this decision, Baltic territories beyond by Roman authorities. In his Natural History completed in AD 75, of Pytheas to describe the territories beyond He writes: Gutones inhabit the shores of an estuary of Their territory extends six thousand stadia The islanders burn the amber as fuel or trade The 'Gutones' are possibly ancestors of the Roman Empire contributing to its decline, North, South, East and West - had they yet The Romans had finally broken through. They had completed a sudden and relentless of Britain. Finally reaching the uncharted west coast, Sea. Within their sight lay the island of Mona for Celtic opposition to Rome. This force was commanded by the Governor Suetonius High Atlas Mountains in North Africa two decades Now he found himself in the mountainous landscape coming attack against the Celtic resistance. He had summoned his senior military staff - and among them was a young twenty-year old The druids and the leaders of the Celtic resistance their island stronghold of Mona. But Paulinus had a plan. Under the orders of Paulinus the Classis Britannica craft. The fleet would convey the assembled legions the sacred island. But as the Romans prepared to disembark on For the druids had prepared an army of Celtic A fanatical enemy was invoking terrible curses Black-clad priestess carrying flaming torches shrieking like crows. Fearful paralysis gripped the Romans. Perhaps there were indeed mystic powers and world? For a long time, the Greeks and Romans had People from classical civilisations recognised raising cultures of northwest Europe. Indeed, early Greek myths of Hercules may they appeared on early artifacts or religious Lugh of the Longarm was a radiant Celtic warrior the spear and slingshot, adept at oratory of craftsmanship - he was represented with of his supernatural character. The Corleck Head from ancient Ireland depicts stone cranium. In early Greek myths, the tenth great labour and steal the red cattle of the monstrous Geryon was a triple headed entity with a fearsome far west. Perhaps the Romans were right to fear Celtic that the continental Celts burnt sacrificial leading two expeditions into southern Britain supported the Gauls against Rome. The Celtic islands had other strange sights known as caryxns. These tall instruments were shaped like gaping tongues that clacked as the warriors advanced. In a Celtic army the trumpet-like horns projected so that the monstrous howling creatures seemed battle line. And so in preparation for combat with these his own monsters to Britain when he invaded War-elephants. The Celts venerated bristle-backed wild boars So massive elephants, with their long tusks Claudius' victory in Britain was seen as Suetonius describes the ceremonies in Rome Among the spoils of victory, Claudius fixed pediment of the Palatine Palace. This was a sign that he had crossed over and Suetonius Paulinus, the Roman general who governor of Britannia in AD 58. The small offshore province of Britain was beyond Roman control. Paulinus was given the position by Nero, but and interests. In particular, he was keen to outdo the exploits a dangerous war against the Parthians in mountainous Compelled by this rivalry, Paulinus led his British territories. Perhaps it was Nero who encouraged renewed was inspired by current events - indeed in in the south Praetorians were exploring the find the distant source of amber. Could Paulinus not do likewise? He could lead his legions to the western edge the furthest unconquered lands. How could Nero with his fascination with exploration And so, Paulinus had marched his legions westward. Tacitus reports: Paulinus, a man who vied with Corbulo in attaining Paulinus therefore prepared to attack the and was a refuge for fugitives. On the opposite shore stood the opposing army Between their ranks dashed women with their like the Furies and waving firebrands. All around, were the Druids, lifting their incantations. Our soldiers were terrified by the unfamiliar They stood motionless and exposed to wounds. Suetonius yelled the orders. 'Equaliter Ambula - Percute!' - 'Advance in Order - Charge!'. The spell was broken and the ranks advanced. It was soon over. The well organised soldiers butchered the Another enemy of Rome had been destroyed. The young Agricola participated in the military that would one day inform and guide his own But as the Romans dismantled the Celtic shrines, of Britain was in revolt. On the east coast, the previously submissive Their queen Boudicia re-armed her people and Roman communities. Suetonius led a rushed and desperate march Though the outnumbered Romans were victorious Entire populations were butchered or fled were burnt or abandoned. Nero considered withdrawing the legions permanently the province was retained. Nevertheless, lessons were learned, and further Writing in AD 75 Pliny claims that Britain Forest (ancient Scotland). And so, in the far north, at the crest of And who would dare make this journey? During the political highpoint of the Roman at the sacred site of Delphi in central Greece. They began discussing the extent and form and their own explorations in far away lands An account of their conversation was recorded brother Lamprias joined the travellers in Delphi was considered to be the sacred cultural Ancient World. It was known as the omphalos, or naval of A myth described how Zeus had simultaneously of the globe, and the birds met one another The two travellers were Cleombrotus of Sparta of Zeus, each had returned from opposite edges Cleombrotus was a wealthy traveller from the He had journeyed for knowledge and experience Plutarch writes: he was fond of seeing things and of acquiring He had sufficient wealth and felt that it enough. So he spent his leisure time involved in travelling But Demetrius was different. He had been on a very different mission. He was a grammarian, a language expert, who had been on an imperial assignment to the coast of Britain. Plutarch writes: islands positioned near Britain. These islands had few or no inhabitants and He himself, by the emperor's order, had made nearest of these islands. Agricola, the Governor of Roman Britain, had venture in the north Atlantic. Demetrius had answered this call. In his role as imperial agent, he had been ancient Britain - probably travelling aboard sent to explore and map a series of islands and the north of Ireland. The sudden approach of an Atlantic storm drove The Roman explorers were forced to take refuge Intrigued by this edge of the world territory, inhabitants in their own dialect - and was island. Somewhere nearby was resting place of a dormant The Greek god Kronos was the primordial being Demetrius would have also heard stories about peoples who lived thousands of years before by Neolithic populations. Roman galleys charting the north coast of paved causeway extending from the rugged coast This undersea causeway rose again on a dark strange acoustic thrumings. This unique natural feature on the Isle of Cave. The close-fitting hexagonal stones of the have been viewed as the work of deities or It was clear the Roman fleet was trespassing Other questions had to be solved if the Romans Was Britain an island of unparalleled size northern counter-land that extended deep into Did this landmass have a terminus? Even half away across the world, Britain was In AD 66 the Jewish king Herod Agrippa had a failed revolt. Josephus reports: Romans have sought another habitable earth They have landed armies on British islands Consider what a barrier the Britons had. They were encircled by the Ocean and yet the And the Britons inhabit a landmass that may earth. And so in AD 77, On the orders of the Emperor Julius Agricola was instructed to find and turn out to be. Agricola led Roman forces to the edge of the Frontier. This was a forty-mile-wide defensive network permanent northern limit to the British province. Now a new conquest could begin so that 'freedom would be entirely isolated. And in AD 80 the Romans prepared their fleet - the final great refuge of the Celtic peoples. This was to be the Empire's final conquest distant west. Tacitus reports: and lifestyle of its population, Ireland differs The routes of approach and harbours are better . . . it would unite the most powerful parts But unforeseen events coincided to halt the In AD 81 the Emperor Titus, the eldest son in office. He was succeeded by his younger brother Domitian And at almost the same time, a remarkable It was the story of a voyage. A newly recruited cohort of Germanic auxiliaries of Britain. They had murdered their commanding officers their escape. Their aim was to search for some sea route back to their homelands beyond the Rhine. The emaciated survivors had reached northern had been swiftly recaptured and returned to The survivors had told a remarkable story sea raids and cannibalism. They were the living proof that some sort of Britain. Britain was confirmed to be an island - with highland zone. By coincidence rumours now reached Agricola In response Agricola called off the Irish northward against this encroaching force of The Roman fleet joined with the land forces entering lochs and deep ocean inlets on the Tacitus reports: over land. The tidal currents flow this way and that. For the sea does not merely ebb and flow along way deep inland, placing itself amidst the [...] as an integral part of the land army and ships The imposing facade of war was pushed forward Often Roman infantry, cavalry, and marines, the same meals. They would evaluate battles on land with victories Two years of difficult campaigning followed defeat on their elusive enemy. Late in the summer of AD 83 Agricola led his to attack a major gathering of Caledonian With this victory, Agricola could claim that And so he marched north with the legions to Under his orders the fleet based in the Clyde northward to confirm the outer limits of the And there, as winter was approaching, they beyond Britain. Surely the land encountered beyond these shores Perhaps bad weather prevented the fleet commander party. Or maybe he was reserving this honour for Tacitus reports: out from the furthermost shore of Caledonia This was the first time that a Roman fleet the remotest sea. They confirmed that Britain was indeed an They also discovered and conquered a series Although they sighted Thule, no landing was been issued and winter was approaching. The fleet reported that the sea in this region They concluded that this was because deep winds as they are in other seas. The land and mountains, which are the cause So, the deep mass of the open ocean has a In the next campaign season the Romans might northward towards Iceland and the edge of But Agricola never undertook this venture. He was recalled from Britain and the fleet Further expansion had become impractical when from Britain - urgently needed to defend the imperial possessions. Rome was on the defensive and it was the embattled and apprehension. The captured territories in Caledonia were empire. Standing on a wet promontory above the Roman Gnaeus Julius Agricola had indeed stood at it would remain that way for centuries afterwards. It is the second century AD. Roman civilisation has reached its greatest Alexandria, the capital of Egypt, stands in the most distant regions through vibrant commercial Hundreds of ships deliver thousands of tons consumer population. But Alexandria also looks eastward, and its seventy days. The Emperor Trajan has restored an ancient This allows travellers to avoid the hardships the Red Sea ports. Italy and India are connected by trade through In the great Library of Alexandria, Claudius devised by his predecessor Marinos of Tyre. Roman political and economic power has greatly repeatedly pass what used to be the boundaries Unfortunately he has miscalculated the size actual size - his landmass measurements are Britain extends too far into the Arctic Zone. Ptolemy therefore 'adjusts' Caledonia, west-east. This is a minor change to a territory that consequence was that Shetland is pushed eastward But what about Thule? Ptolemy carefully reviews the map data collected By all accounts Thule should be north of Britain, on his world map and labels this landmass The Romans had found and mapped their Thule Advances in geographical knowledge were also world. A merchant sailor named Alexandros wrote a the eastern Indian Ocean. Roman merchant ships now reached distant kingdoms routes around the Malay Peninsula, they arrived Java, and Borneo. Roman sailing records suggest that beast-like These could be orangutans. Ancient Buddhist scriptures describe the early in Indonesia and beyond. The Romans called this distant sea the 'Bay north to the outer territories of Han China. The furthest location on these distant voyages Ptolemy records : for the sail from the Golden Peninsula to However, he does record that Alexandros had Those who sail along it reach the city of Zabai northeast for few days they reach Kattigara. Perhaps Kattigara was an oriental city somewhere It could have been visited by Chinese merchants knew as Sinae. But Roman merchants were also extending classical the more direct land-based Silk Routes to In about AD 100, merchants were sent east Maes Titianus. They were granted passage through the rival Trekking through Bactria - ancient Afghanistan Empire, their destination was a trade outpost to merchants as 'The Stone Tower'. Here caravans coming from Indian and Iranian traders. Bullion and rare substances were exchanged The Roman merchants who reached the Stone travel onwards into the homelands of the mysterious Ptolemy records: is subject to extreme weather, so there must The route only became known through the opportunities Marinos records that one Maes, also known family profession, recorded the distance. Maes did not travel the route himself but And so Ptolemy used the distances provided Asia, and having settled upon the dimensions By this era Roman merchants, agents, and explorers, of profit, or on special imperial assignments. To estimate the southern extent of the known trading voyages to a distant East African Rhapta was on the coast of Tanzania, near Voyages along these coasts included sailings coast rose steeply upward to form desolate Rhapta was in the Southern Hemisphere, more Details were confirmed by a Greek captain wind near the Horn of Africa and sailed south Diogenes suggested that the true source of were reports of vast inland lakes - perhaps Ptolemy writes: Aromatic Promontory and Rhapta was undertaken He was returning from India a second time by a strong northern wind. He sailed south with Africa on his right for near the lakes from which the Nile flows. In the 80s AD, the Emperor Domitian sent an They crossed through Garamatic territory to The explorers entered inner Africa and captured Ptolemy describes how Julius Meternus spent enigmatic land of Agisymba. He writes: to Garamantia and accompanied its king on After marching south for four months they where the rhinoceros congregate. The captive African rhino was transported before being placed on a ship bound for Rome. There, in the newly built colosseum, Domitian's bulls and destroy Caledonian bears. To the amazed spectators it was clear that were superior to anything Agricola might have The Roman crowd realised that the African endless. And so, looking at their world maps the Greeks covered only a fraction of the globe. Seneca wondered what undiscovered lands might He remembered the arrival of the Sinhalese become a launching point for Roman voyages Would the day come when the Empire could complete western ocean to other undiscovered lands? He wrote: the Ocean shall unloose the bonds of knowledge. When the whole vast earth shall be discovered, not be the limit of the known lands. Roman civilisation, through the exploits of revealed and mapped the Ancient World as they