How are you? We hope you are doing well, that you will have and that you are to watch TV We are happy of the show that brings together: You are right to be here, because tonight, and especially thanks to our friend Rebecca and to Sam, Good evening. It's a bit spinning, but it's okay. This is the beginning of the show. I feel Is there a birthday, a party after? No, we're just happy to be here. The journalists were dancing too. They were happy. See you later Everyone must have watched TPMP Good mood, it's true. See you later? See you soon! A new story, Pascal? Yes? Of course, with happiness. Then another detour through the lodge. We take a detour into the corridor How are you Rebecca? Is it going well? Are you following the show Yes, sometimes I play the little mouse I know, we see you on set. You arrive behind the dials, At the same time, I watch with Ouna. Here, No, but we're watching. Yes. Are you alone Woof. I was well accompanied. This is crazy. I am with Najet Hello, Najet. How are you? Stressed, but okay. That's exactly what I said. A little buttercup. I'll take it. No, I've been asking myself this question for two weeks, but... Are you racking your brains? Poor guy. What's his name? We are sorry, Brahim, if she hasn't been nice, When she is anxious, Yes. We'll leave you both alone, and we will close the lodge the person who has a truth They have known each other for a long time, Audrey, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Are you okay, Audrey? Are you okay? How? Thank you Glad to be here? You know the show, so that we can find the person This is important. How long has it been since you last saw her? Twenty-five years without seeing Yes. You were 23 Twenty-three years, in 1999, yes. Was it the arrival of the year 2000 that scared you? Maybe, yes. It's a holiday A fatal holiday? Yes, because you are going your companion at the time, and there, as it sometimes happens It's not always easy. Cohabitation is complicated. It's not simple. We don't necessarily have the same way of living, time, expenses, etc. What happens then? We left for 15 days, and after a week, Between the two guys? Because of what? Arguments. I think there was too much tension, during the week. We were told in particular who was quite spendthrift, We had which necessarily had a cost, and I remember So, inevitably, I think that there was They were skipping planned activities, that we can move on to a program that we had pre-established, well-defined beforehand. Your ex-partner No, I stayed Last year? The one who was your companion had a concept of vacations We let go, we take advantage of it. be financially fair Not just that. I think they had Squeeze, spend an activity but not for him. We have problems when we go on holiday Were you in a rented apartment? With space? Did it go really well with Najet? The two boys too? What makes it so that when things get heated, you two don't tell &quot;We're on vacation, come back down.&quot; Each one is in love, Then defends him. Did you have a fight? Yes, we each took sides So, a shouting match, but nothing serious. When you came back the two of you, No, we really stuck to our positions. We didn't look any further, You came back, and where did you live? and she at Garenne-Colombes. In the Paris region? You drove home in the evening. The next day, no call to say: &quot;These 15 days were not great&quot;? I never had the courage to do it. Neither does she? We really stuck to our positions. How close were you? Because it sounds like you're talking about a friend. with whom it would have gone badly We met in first year, in high school, We worked at the market together There was a complicity. I was a witness at her wedding, so we spent Real friends. We shared a lot, Laurent spoke of a murderous summer, We tried to make a movie too of these two inseparable friends, and who, from one day to the next, They meet at high school. It was 32 years ago. Between classes and breaks, an immediate, strong and sincere friendship. Between the two of them, no secrets. They are united like two sisters. They share heartaches They are so close no doubts, and vice versa, of course. Two couples are formed, We continue to share good times, until the day they spend It was 25 years ago. A stay that turns into a nightmare. The two husbands, who are nevertheless friends, Audrey and Najet Since that summer of 1999, On many occasions, but her husband dissuaded her. Today, Audrey is separated from him, and nothing stops him from finding his childhood friend again. Tonight, on the set Will Najet agree to forgive 25 years ago? We will find out soon. Well told? Did your husband talk you out of it? He stood his ground, He didn't want to see them? Neither she nor her husband? What was his companion's name? It's still Brahim, So it's still the same. Then I got along well with Brahim, It is said that they almost came to blows. At the end, yes, on the way back. On the way back, by car. No, we were picking up my dog at the time since the trunk was full, Why today, 25 years later, take this step? We know that it was your daughter It's Perrine, my youngest, yes. Does that mean you opened up to her about missing this friend? Yes, I was missing a friend, and I tried to contact her again, and secretly, Your daughter signed you up in secret? Why in secret? Because she didn't think that we would be contacted. - A surprise? Yes, and then a way That's important too. Perrine. So, thanks to Perrine, you are here tonight, in front of us. Najet, did you look for her Have you seen any pictures of her recently? So, 25 years without seeing his face? Are you interested in seeing his face? Rebecca brought him your invitation, look. Here is the 15th arrondissement of Paris, the biggest one, the one where I was born. There are elevated metros there, It is very pleasant to walk there, If we continue a little, and behind me, the Bir-Hakeim bridge, built in the 20th century, He appears in many films. It is very cinematic, but I am here She is a mother, married, has several children. She is on a mission, She is here. Hello, I'm Rebecca from the show &quot;Only the truth matters&quot;. Are you Najet? Let me give you this again, hoping to see you very soon Very good, thank you. Have a nice day. She hasn't changed. Are you moved? Why? His voice? The voices don't change much. How does it feel to see her? Does that take you back 25 years? I'm sorry. Yes, she has always been very beautiful. She is radiant Did she bring you a lot? So, did you miss her a lot? You have had friends, in the meantime, female friends in particular, who have...? No. I can already see that you are saying no You never replaced it? Nobody took his place? I have never been able to confide as much as I do in her. Are you aware No more than you, but today, Maybe she's not ready on this dispute, especially since she is still with Brahim. It is a decision Are you ready Yes, it's the... I don't imagine it will be open I hope so. and then we will welcome Najet and then prepare well See you soon. How are you ? Well, is that for sure? We close the curtain, where Rebecca is still chatting with Najet. I'm not going to keep it to myself. Najet, I'm going to ask you You're going to follow Sam, THANKS. Good evening. How elegant. Delighted to meet you. Let me introduce you to Laurent. Are you okay? Sit down, Najet. What a smile. Stand a little bit more... You're the one who's tall. Laurent is tall, How are you ? A little stressed. Why stressed? I don't know what to expect. Lots of questions. A man, a woman? I'm thinking more of a woman. Oh, yeah? So, that means... Do you still have some suspicions? Suspicions, no, but I have four, Are they only women? Are you sure there isn't a man? I'm sure, Are you married? Do you have children? What could it be then? What do you do for a living? I work in a large energy group. I am responsible for innovation, health, safety and communication projects. You have work to do, A lot, yes. It could be a neighbor No, I don't think so. I think more of a childhood friend. Maybe at summer camp. Where were you going to camp? At a summer camp, in Brittany, in the south. I've been lucky Places? Do I suggest, Najet, I'm afraid. Don't be afraid, this is just a hint. Oh, yeah? Look up there, Do you believe in second chances? Do you believe in it, In love, in friendship, do we have When mistakes have been made, can we still forgive and forget? It depends. It depends. Are there things There are people, for example, who you never spoke to again or slandered? From the family, no. For me, family is not possible Family, no, I don't think so. Friends, yes, there are friendships by betrayal, and that I do not forgive. I'm sorry. Betrayal, I do not forgive. An important value for me is trust. So, I hope that... That it wasn't a friend There you go, that's it. Otherwise, do you know how to forgive? I know how to forgive, yes, I'm not going to say mistake but it can be voluntary. If you were harmed Voluntarily, it's ruined, Bye bye. Second clue, Pascal? Do you sometimes know how to change your mind? Are you stubborn, stubborn, It's hard to make you bend or are you handy enough and that when faced with somewhat rational arguments, would you say yes or no, I can change my mind on a subject when I manage to be, Yes, but I can be stubborn Betrayal, for example? Stressed? Ah, less? It often happens that way when we see Laurent. It immediately de-stresses. When we see you both. No stress, there's Laurent. We'll look at this screen if you want, and then we will make appear the face Do you know this person? Surprise ? Do you want a small handkerchief? Audrey. She was my best friend. That makes me happy. I'm surprised. &quot;She was my best friend.&quot; Sorry, I heard: This is amazing! Life? I was in Qatar with my husband in April and I told him... from our childhood, lots of things. We were both on vacation. I told him: &quot;I would like to see three people again She was one of them. Audrey? Who is What did your husband, Brahim, tell you at that time, when did you say Audrey's name? He knows her. Oh really? All right. We know why you broke up the troubles that happened at the time, The fact that both... I didn't want to take... I didn't want to impose myself It is important to say it, because it was with her husband, and there was no way I was going to get between them. They were a couple. I preferred to sacrifice myself and say: &quot;Too bad.&quot; &quot;I prefer...&quot; &quot;Putting my friendship aside, We've been through a lot When we had to revise we started eating chili peppers. It was a story... I don't know if she remembers. We didn't want to... To scare the examiner No, it was during revision. We had to go before our French teacher before the baccalaureate. This teacher really scared us. I said I had a trick: we buy chili pepper and eat it We went there, we ate and she said to me: &quot;It doesn't work, it doesn't work.&quot; There are lots of memories like that. Okay, do you want to listen, because that's the way it should normally happen, It's Audrey who takes this step, what she came to tell you here and now? Twenty-two years later. Audrey, your friend. Glad you recognized me. Your voice hasn't changed. Your voice touches me. I really wanted to find you again. I missed you. I have never found I regret not having done the... The step of coming back to you. I could have, I should have imposed myself too. We have lost so many years. I want to make up for everything. His daughter, whose name is Perrine, She was the one who took the steps. Knowing that his mother missed you too much, she decided to call us for his mother. How old is she? She's going to be 22. You both look very moved. We imagine you have You will tell us She is no longer with... Not so long ago. Separation. You never thought... I will find her. I'll look on social media. If I hadn't found it, I said to myself, since I wasn't the protagonist of this mess, I was afraid, I was afraid and that it creates chaos in his relationship. So I gave up right away. I said, &quot;No, I don't know, &quot;that she has moved on.&quot; I really didn't want to go in in this story. When just now, she was told that you were married, since he is one of the protagonists You were the witness, She said: &quot;I am happy I loved him very much.&quot; However, it was with his a long time ago. This was the cause of your separation. My husband also liked it very much. Audrey? He liked her very much. I'm going to ask you You know the show. There is on the other side of this curtain your former best friend to tell you: &quot;I missed you a lot &quot;so let's not waste any more.&quot; Are you opening the curtain? Go for it. You haven't changed. You both look very beautiful, It's really nice to get back in touch with you. Thanks to Perrine Then, we see you holding hands, Sometimes we waste a lot of time Thank you both. Never leave each other again, especially because of the guys, When they get confused, we leave them and remain friends. Thank you very much. Bravo Come on, go back arm in arm. Which way? A new story with a young woman and the invitation she brought us is very important. To your applause, Hi Coraline, how are you? Good evening Coraline, sit down. So, are you stressed? As it should be. Glad to see us? Oh yeah? Us too. How old are you? 19 years old. 19 years old and already a mother. That's the reason you came tonight. Because you have a story And a conflict about this birth. Quickly and to make it short, Coraline met a young man, a little younger than you, One year. Basil. Who is not an adult. Now, what is important. In love? You went out together. Then what had to happen happened. One day you are a little late and you took a pregnancy test. There you remember it as if it were yesterday. You buy the pregnancy test. You do it and? What's going on? Not shocked, but it didn't affect us I don't know how to explain... he was welcome, for sure, but... we could have had You were going to be even more... It will change our lives. It wasn't. No? It wasn't a wanted child. Some time you were together, Even though you can be very mature and very immature when you're over 60. Are you talking about yourself? I imagine that at this point, you don't tell anyone What do we do? What are the hypotheses Abortion. I have done all the steps. I found out I was pregnant I took the steps, but I took my time, We were scared, You didn't tell your parents about it? Are you managing with Basile? I went to the hospital Time was too tight, I had to take responsibility You're talking about it again... of this decision... What does Basile tell you? Basile, he tells me he is only 17 years old and that it is not obvious. Even for me, 19 years old, At first, we also thought about giving birth anonymously. Well, me especially. Absolutely? We didn't succeed. Is this your baby? I felt it move, It was not possible for us to leave it. The little boy's name is Jules? How old is he? You decide to keep this child? Basile is coming, I imagine, No? Why? His mother doesn't know? Yes, wait, we'll get to that There, he doesn't talk about it to his parents? And you? Still not? When did your parents find out? I was 5 months old. At 5 months? The day of delivery... his parents are not there, Basile is not coming? He's afraid his mother will know that... He could have said it. I was hoping... Until the end, but he wasn't there. Your parents? My mother could be there alone, Only my mother was there. Yes. must have been telling you for months: &quot;You're not throwing your life away?&quot; I told him that That was the phrase to avoid. Oh yeah? She wanted you to keep it and she would help you? Did she support you? A wonderful mother... who has been by your side. Today, who is a grandmother... Great too. This is already a good point. So you came to live again Are you living with your parents and the baby? Basile's parents aren't here? Basile, he manages... We're not officially together, Oh really, you're together? He comes to see your parents? He doesn't have the right? Why? He can come secretly. He has already tried. Until one day his father calls him: &quot;What are you doing here?&quot; Wait, Basile's mom that you invited this evening, so that you understand what happens next... she knows the child was born? Now? Is he the one who told them? After the birth? Two months before? She stopped her from going? So, she suspects that this child... she knows where he is? At your parents' house, with you? She doesn't want her son to come? So why? Because she thinks that All right. For what ? We're not supposed to talk to each other We see each other and talk in secret. She didn't know. So, you two had a story in the beginning. Afterwards, officially, you broke up while you continued Hence the conception That's it. So, for Basile's mother, Melanie... This child cannot be his son's. Exactly. Is she sure? She is in denial. No, she asked me to I think she has a little doubt. That's to say ? If she was sure, She wouldn't have needed proof. Did she ask you? Did you see her a long time ago? From time to time? You've never seen her? Since the child was born? Even before. But, you're dating his son. At first she liked me. Yet, we never spoke All right. Why does she reject you like that? She doesn't know me, She doesn't know me. She believes that you have done, the baby blow in the back to his son and she is against She is afraid that her son will put himself because she doubts that he is the father, For my son, but she doesn't try to understand. She's not interested in that, How to say? I messaged him recently She doesn't want any contact. To understand it well, but you understood it overall. The question is: Before tonight, a paternity test? Except, remember, To do a paternity test, DNA, you need the parents' permission. So, there is a kind of knot Melanie to the mother, who prevents Basile from being here tonight because he is a minor, prevents a paternity test from being done. She can't stop him from being a dad and to have his own private, intimate life. You still haven't done this test? Is that why you invited him? To tell him Melanie, we don't know each other, I am convinced agrees to have him do a paternity test. You asked us to invite finally, mother-in-law, she doesn't want to be, You're going to offer him a paternity test, we'll see. Are you sure the test will say 100%, no doubt. You know that better than anyone. So if she says: &quot;Let's make it a paternity test,&quot; &quot;I authorize my son.&quot; It's okay, he does it. He is recognized as a father. Basile says: &quot;OK&quot;. He will be able to see his son not in secret. There, he sees him in secret? For example ? The first time, we found ourselves so that Basil could see Jules. Why? Your parents' house, she is not under surveillance? The mother-in-law does not look what's going on at your parents' house, He's afraid of getting caught. Coraline thinks he's being watched. You turned 19. Excuse me, we've all done it. Never, never. Mom, if you look at me... He might come anyway. It is not monitored 24/7. I would like to. I think he's scared Your parents would agree, They would agree. Your parents did not intervene with Melanie to try to smooth things over and resolve the problem? No, I didn't want to I want to keep it between her and me. So as not to make the situation worse. It was Melanie who first said: &quot;I will not accept &quot;a paternity test&quot; &quot;and that we will not have &quot;That's Basile the father?&quot; You didn't accept right away I was bothered to prove that Jules is my son His son. What is his preconception about you? I don't know. She sees me as a girl which is not the case. She makes preconceptions At first, how did she welcome you as Basile's girlfriend? Well, in quotes. We spoke to each other by message. Is she quite nice? She doesn't understand here and there, which deceive, which change. It's been more than two years, She thinks I'm clinging to him in a bad way. Did you bewitch her? I think that's what she thinks. Basil, how is he with you? Still in love since Jules was born? You don't think he's shirking? Is Melanie the problem? I wouldn't say that. No, the blockage. So, what did you come to tell him tonight? I understand his reaction, which was violent. That I don't blame him. Being a mother, I understand things I understand I want us to move forward, to do a paternity test The situation weighs on me as much as it does on her. I don't want to intrude on his life. I would like us to start a family At some point, He takes my brother for his father. Now I understand that it is becoming urgent. He needs a male role model. For me, it's becoming urgent. To reconcile with her too? That's what I would like. Otherwise, it's going to be unbearable. You need support. Your mother is here, but you need Well yes. It is important, I think, to point this out. You are not looking for of a dad to pay... You are looking To love and care for and to be your companion too, because you are still in love. Financially, This is not what I am looking for I know it. But it was important to clarify this. We'll see She was invited. We'll give you two seconds. You have an interest convincing, if I may say so. The curtain closes, and we will reestablish the connection So, I say it right away, because I don't like to make these things last, I am alone in my dressing room. Melanie did not accept the invitation. That being said, that journalists have been that they talked a lot. And that in fact, she is obviously ready She wasn't ready She expressed that She suspected, but she clearly suspected but coming on a television set, but she will most certainly listen to the message. Okay, thank you, Rebecca. We know you don't like it but you are not responsible for it. Everyone is free, in this show, We're going to reopen the curtain It's definitely difficult but we will not despair. She is probably or she will see it on replay, etc. We too, for you, What's on your mind? What do you say to yourself? I'm disappointed but then I understand, She doesn't give me a chance. It's hard. That's not entirely true, and that you will be able to First, there is what you have been saying Then Rebecca said it, That doesn't mean So, there is a camera You will be able to tell him what We hope that this will not only be listened to, but heard. Good evening, Melanie. I allowed myself because, on the one hand, you intimidate me. I don't know why. I have tried an approach several times, but I never managed If I came here tonight, that I don't blame you, because I am also a mother, of wanting to protect your son. I think that in your place, but I would sincerely like because I would like to do to clear up this story. Because for me, It's not for you, I didn't come to turn your life upside down, I came My son needs his dad, as he needs I feel it every day. That's why I would really like that today, you listen and that we can establish Well played, well said, with a simple heart, Are you 19 years old? Do you feel more mature? You look super built and mature. At first it was super complicated. I always told my parents, &quot;I can't do it.&quot; It is thanks to them that I am here, that I didn't have towards myself. Today, I wouldn't say that I feel able to live without them, but I feel capable In any case, your message was I would be Melanie, I would say to myself you don't find them every day You're not Melanie. There are many things This story is bound to move. We will obviously let you know. Then, at worst, in a few weeks, a few months at most, to do this paternity test to those who doubt it in any case, Coraline, we're going to let you go. Well done for your courage. - Thank you. The most important thing in your life is your son. Thank you. Be careful. Yes, it happens, right Pascal? Truths but truths We're going to discover a new one Laurent. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to receive Fiorella! Good evening. How are you? Welcome, have a seat. What a nice name! My cousin was called the same as you. My cousin was called the same as you. Fiorella, Italian cousin. Are you of Italian origin? What a pretty name: "Little flower"! Gorgeous. You really do live up to your name, by the way. What brings you here, I just want to say a big thank you. A thank you? To someone who was very important at a specific time in your life. At a time that could have ended very badly. Indeed. so everything is fine. Tell us what happened. Do you remember the date, Yes, it was March 17, 2002, Okay, so 22 years ago. I was going on a snow class. I was 11 years old. In fact, we went on a snow trip Arrival at the precise location, so in the hotel parking lot, there is a block of ice Who fell off the roof? Were you buried under the snow? The teachers, to put it quickly, &quot;You take all the suitcases, &quot;you bring them back There were three left. Nobody wanted to look for them, I was in such a hurry I said to two boys in my class: So we went to get In the distance, there is someone By reflex, I bent down There, it's this block of ice a big thing. Then I wasn't very tall, So, that kind of finished me off, So, I had to have I had lost consciousness, in fact, in front of my classmates, etc. of the other two comrades? No, they have that happened to them, but nothing. They didn't get anything, So, no memory of that moment? from the moment we left by bus, Did you forget everything? When you left where you lived? Even the trip? Zero memories? The little anecdote, it's that when we arrived, we didn't have a school nurse, and there was another bus who was leaving, who was late, and that bus had Thanks to this lady, I am here... the first nights, and in cardiac arrest. She was the one who made it happen that you come back to life. So you don't remember her? From his face, you don't know her, you didn't see her again? Then, one day, you saw a show I always thought about... When I was little, I watched I thought to myself, &quot;If I'm going to go on this show,&quot; &quot;it would be for this lady.&quot; Then when you came back, &quot;Now I'm a little older, I thought, &quot;This is the opportunity.&quot; If I do it, because it allowed me and to thank her because it was very, very hard for them. Then to congratulate her, It's a wonderful job. Then that's where we believe You said the bus was late. If he had left earlier, I wouldn't have met you. It should be noted that she did the cardiac massage, then, to the hospital. You had a pneumothorax, though, You were in real danger. I had a lot of things, indeed. I went with the firefighters because with the snow, Apparently, I was aware, and I refused to go to the hospital, He saw that I had a hemothorax, What do you mean? Bleeding in the lungs. Then, in Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne, So they transferred me to Grenoble. You can imagine that I was far At the time, we had that we put in the cabins, &quot;Buy some for your children.&quot; &quot;When we arrive, we will make a call, I had to call off the top of my head, I think, At 10 p.m., my mother had not heard from me. So she had to be like that. Did anyone inform her about the accident? As a mother, I understand this anxiety So it was the teacher I was with a sports teacher, and one of the teachers who had stayed She called 2 hours later: &quot;We know she has a hemothorax, The parents must have been crazy. My parents are separated, So she called my dad, There they took the road. Together? So, it was 800 miles without a word, because they were already separated, Where do you know it from? That your parents drove together Did your mother tell you about it? They couldn't say a single word, They were stressed. When my parents arrived, they took out the little checklist, There I had my hemothorax, I had my vertebra, my D8 fractured, At 2 mm more, I was a quadriplegic. I had a hematoma in my heart, I had my pancreas in shock, my foot broken. I had quite a few things. That's a lot, I was in intensive care in an artificial coma My parents saw me with a whole range of pipes. You asked to find her, We found her. She is invited. She was invited. So, you will be able, Twenty-two years later. of an unknown woman, who saved your life. Ready? Look at Rebecca's invitation. Today we are in Livry-Gargan, in Seine-Saint-Denis, This town was built in the Middle Ages and has a particularity. It is this cedar of Lebanon who had fallen in love with the beauty It measures more than 10 m, and it is a natural wealth I will give this invitation She is a nurse, 22 years ago, Good morning ! Excuse me, are you Nathalie? Good morning. I'm Rebecca, from the show I am giving you this invitation hoping to see you soon Okay, well it's... THANKS ! It's a surprise. See you soon! There you go! She is a beautiful woman. Why these tears? I don't know. Have you imagined his face? Did you ever think about her? Never? Never asked the question... Well, what did she look like, but... I don't know, it is not sadness, It may be to say to oneself: &quot;Actually, she was the one who was there.&quot; The right person at the right time. That's it. Is this a moment Unconsciously, I think, yes. Are you ready to tell him It is necessary. then we'll see if Nathalie is okay You are not allowed to speak I don't say anything. I obey. He was the one who decided. It is he who... The curtain closes. Otherwise, it's going to be tough. We will reestablish, with the curtain closed, see if she is alone or accompanied. I'm accompanied! Oh yes, Nathalie accepted the invitation, and she told me... Sorry, Nathalie. She told me that no matter what happens, Then she realized Are you sure I'm sure I said it, Finally, thinking about it... Because we, who know the story which makes you here there is real suspense. I say this without any malice. There is real suspense. You will have an important decision Okay. You have words to say to him. A few sentences. Do you want to do it? I never know the order. Nathalie, I ask you to stand up. You will follow Sam, and the truth is at the end of the corridor! Thank you, Pascal! Perfect. How are you? Welcome! Good evening, Nathalie. Are you okay? You sit down there. You look at us as if we were... chocolate droppings in a box. Two chocolate turds. She looked at me very kindly. Do you know this guy? Do you watch us from time to time? Did you think No. It's impressive. With a very welcoming audience, Then there is someone who asked us Declaration of love, are you in a relationship? So, that's not it. Are you married? Ah! What's your darling's name? Flobert? What does Flobert do for a living, does he write? He is... No, he reads a lot, though. He reads a lot, he still hasn't He likes our show. You need with everything you've been told? No, but it... Does that surprise you? No, not really. He is rather discreet. But sometimes, This is the point of this show, it is that it allows Would that please you? Flobert, if you can hear us, We are willing to be witnesses if necessary. A declaration of love, a marriage proposal, why not? Maybe we'll get a real clue. It's happening up there. If the past resurfaced today, GOOD. Are there any good things in your past? Yes yes. The bad ones can't come back. There isn't a man Not bad time? Sure? Well, I don't know. I wasn't necessarily talking about an ex or something like that. Yes, yes. Is Flobert jealous? Normally. The face you make. I love this moment. A second clue? Come on, look up there In life, No, except maybe skiing. There is ice under the... A little. What a competitive artist. World champion of clues. Are you the type Yes. No, not to everyone. Even to people who seem nice? What is your job? Nurse, general at the hospital? No, in a school environment, in high school. I went to the hospital, It was you who collected constantly complain thing to not go to class Yes, but there are not only... Well, there are also the real problems. Yes, I guess. We look at the face Yes. Stare at those screens, Dear in the sense of the heart, He will cross this curtain and make the face appear in these screens. She is beautiful. I don't know I have no idea who that is. No. However, this is someone What if we told you it was thanks to you? that this young woman is here tonight to talk to you? Shall we give the first name, Pascal, Yes. Does it click right away? I don't know, Yes, you are right. The first letter of this girl's first name is &quot;F&quot;. Like Fontaine Like Flobert. It's an Italian name, Do you speak Italian? Too bad she doesn't speak French. You'll see, You'll see, it's simple, &quot;fiore&quot; and &quot;flower&quot;, Fiorella. Fiorella. No more. We'll let you go, Good evening on C8. Fiorella, does that mean anything to you? Even searching No. Do you want to listen that you don't recognize, Who is 34 years old. That's weird. What were you doing on March 17, 2002? at exactly 12:29, madam? We must be clear about the time. Is it a Saturday or a Sunday? You are in your college, but you don't just stay in the establishment. Sometimes, as a school nurse, you find yourself to go on school trips, or even to accompany... Students skiing. So what? It's moving. What is moving? I remember being there - A little girl? I don't remember... - Yes, that's it. This is incredible. I am delighted. Do we still listen to it? Twenty-two years later, Nathalie. Good evening, Nathalie. I hope you're doing well. Yes, very well. It was complicated I brought you to this set I am well Fiorella at La Toussuire with this accident I brought you here thank you for making this gesture, because it's thanks to you thank you on behalf of my parents because today, and we realize As a child, we don't realize and of all that I had... I didn't So, I wanted to That's nice. in his establishment As you were you were still there and you were able to perform If you had left on time, you wouldn't be here today. So, a big thank you for what you have done. Plus, you still do this job It's even more beautiful. You're fine. I was bothered for a long time, That's great, but... It's true that we do things, without knowing what happens to I have often asked myself this question, I became a first aid instructor. In my job, sometimes, I tell this story. Are you telling this story? I was like, &quot;She's not opening her mouth.&quot; &quot;How to give mouth-to-mouth resuscitation?&quot; I was tense there, like that. We manipulated what needed to be done, but she was not unconscious No, apparently, If you hadn't been there, Everyone was around her, It's funny, because we say to ourselves It's like there are that the victim was in the middle As we heard I wasn't alone, There you have a young woman, who is 34 years old, I'm delighted, I'm delighted. Nathalie, we're going to ask you the principle of this show. On the other side of this curtain, this little girl who comes to say: and also: &quot;Well done for continuing and to honor, who provide first aid, when there is something serious Shall we open this curtain? Then we open it. That's nice, thank you very much. I am delighted. THANKS. Great. How does it feel, Fiorella, on this memory I unconsciously think good, yes. Does this close a small page Yes, as a child, I did not accept I wondered why me, why it happened to me. I was very sporty, Did you ski again after? My father, fortunately, always told me: &quot;Come on, let's go back.&quot; My mother said to me: &quot;You don't go past hotels, et cetera.&quot; Have you returned to La Toussuire? In management, everyone knows it, we know it well in production. We kiss Disco, who is an old guy by the way, Kisses to Toussuire. It's a lovely family resort that we love. Well done to Nathalie again. We are glad to have put you in touch. THANKS. Hello in your approach. Nathalie, keep up the good work We'll let you go, That's nice. The truth, we have seen and you like it when we come back to find out what happened to the protagonists. Jean-Paul had fallen in love with Nathalie during a coach trip. He had asked us Look. Good evening, take a seat. How are you, Jean-Paul? A little impressed? You're not from Switzerland? It's not very far There are still 800 km. Jean-Paul, Pascal, you know it, I imagine, he loves traveling, He loves bus trips. The bus is your thing. For what ? There is a way to meet having fun. It's not like flying. Diverse cultures are good, That's even better. Nathalie. How exactly did it happen? The bus was heading He stopped in Switzerland to pick up Did they load it? There in the bus, just like that, Were you able to talk? &quot;I'm going to meet someone.&quot; This is the story. How many people did you choose? There were only old women, Did you go from &quot;getting to know each other&quot; to &quot;flirting&quot;? Yes, that's it. On buses, there are seats for two. She was next to her girlfriend, I kind of stuck around like that. Standing in the aisle at the beginning? It seems like a pick-up line, You could say that. Then you arrived in Sicily, did you travel there together? No, in Sicily, she went Have you stayed in touch since then? Yes, in contact by phone. She had internet, so did I. From there, a friendship developed. Now it has grown. You never saw each other again? How long was the bus trip? Three days? They are roommates. Three days and three nights? You were not lying down, but sitting. I didn't sleep. I did three days, two sleepless nights. Excuse me, but in three days, but you didn't succeed in an approach? It was the second day So, you then kept in touch by mail, by email? I sent cards at Christmas and everything Have you or she shown No, actually, I'm taking advantage of the show to tell him, because it's more direct. By phone, by internet, Do you think No, she has no idea. She called you to tell you By phone, she told me She asked me if it was me, She thinks it's a close relative Is she alone talking about this? Yes, I looked into it You, since this story, Yes, little weekends like that, Nothing serious? What did you come to say, That you are really in love? Yes, that my friendship We'll see, in a few minutes, We wish you that. Stay there silent, I don't know. The curtain closes. We're going to find Rebecca Becky! It's up to you. Nathalie is very curious, She asks me who it is. I can't answer. You don't have any idea? I wanted to know something How do you say &quot;Only the truth And &quot;at the end of the corridor&quot; in a few seconds? I'll see it in French, I'm going to ask you to stand up. The truth is at the end of the corridor, Good evening. Good evening. The shape? A little stressed? You're standing there with your hands a little sweaty. I'm stressed. Sam, did the hallway go well? Do you have any idea? You must have worried, thought, asked yourself questions. I haven't stopped, but what could someone say to me on a TV set? You know that in general, and right now it's often love, but sometimes it is also Did you get angry with someone? You want a hint? Do you know where it is? Up there, look. Nathalie, you think are also the hardest to say? Here, we come back a little Are our clues easy? There may be a somewhat sweet confession that will be made to you this evening. That doesn't mean That's right, yes. Nathalie, can we put you I want to, yes. Nathalie, do you think on the road to happiness to find it? That's a solid clue. Do we have to do to find happiness? It can happen. Does this help you or not? A little, I already know that A few kilometers in Switzerland. It's small, but you're not on top of each other. Almost. We are going on the highway to happiness, Do you want to see behind this curtain? Of course. All right. Yes. Yes what? This is Jean-Paul. Yes ? Who comes from Belgium. Yes ? Who I met and with whom I have kept in touch... ... Since. Are you surprised to see him? For what ? Because... There you go, we often talk, - By phone, by internet Do you want to leave? I think she wants to leave. Do you want to stop? Are you sure? Do you want to hear Jean-Paul? He came from Belgium and you from Switzerland. It's a bit halfway, Paris. Jean-Paul, it's your turn. Are you okay, Nathalie? The form, yes? You are very pretty. You have beautiful eyes. I'm stopping flirting. If I invited you tonight, that I would never have told you First of all, know that you will remain forever engraved I have things to tell you, especially that I have They are just overflowing We got to know each other, It was a real treat, it was delicious. We have made a lot of friends, to take a step I want a more serious and carnal relationship. It is true but in my eyes, scattered among the red roses. You are the one who stands out the most. I am aware that It's quite far, but the distance besides all the love I have for you. I will be ready It doesn't scare me. There will be many moments, because, you and I, Afterwards, we can consider and more constructive too. Would you accept tonight, of a future relationship between you and me? At least try, attempt the experience. So. There's your mom on the phone. You know how to talk to girls in Belgium really well. What do you think? There are great Belgian poets, but we have just discovered one more. No, but the white rose It's pretty. I've never been spoken to like that. Nathalie, are you okay? Touched by all this, that you will give soon. Of course. Touched, yes. that this boy was in love with you? No. Not at all, yes. in months that he was a little... I never asked myself any questions Are you in love right now? Are you alone? Him too. I'm just telling you, Do you know what you're going to answer? Yes. Have you made your decision yet? I ask you to stand up Stay with us You heard it. Jean-Paul came ...beyond friendship, He expressed it nicely, by the way. He wants to continue more carnal, he said it bluntly. More carnal. I'll explain to you after the show. He's in love with you, We'll open it. There is a question I don't know if you saw, without having had finally they do this and that. When does the &quot;more carnal&quot; start? Maybe they'll talk about it a little bit. You make a very cute couple. Long live Belgian-Swiss or Swiss-Belgian friendship and love. I don't know how to say it. Be happy both of you. How are you ? You can't be intimidated. Twenty years later, What happened after the show? After the broadcast, there was a little evening to learn a little A few weeks later, I went to Switzerland to meet him. I don't know how long. Maybe one or two weeks, I don't remember. Immaturity, when you're young, but eventually we realized The bottom line is that these are The contacts were simply cut off. There I was a student Already there, we don't spend much time There are many people By nature, I am shy. So, there are even some to make a gesture but there was no if it's not that were surprisingly because it's true that it takes It's already the end Time to find Let's come back to it one last time. Goodbye. Dear friends, see you next week? With great pleasure. Like this Thursday night. What channel, you know? The plateau is this one. Anyway... We like to remind you of things. Too bad for you, We hug you very hard, to be present every time that of emotion which you can come and participate in if you too you have something to say Have a great evening on C8. Be happy, we kiss you