Would Life Really Develop Differently on Pointed ears, blue skin, abnormal head, or in which science fiction literature, movies, and visiting Earth. So different in height, shape, in common: a vaguely human appearance. it is easier and cheaper to make up actors blobs or tentacled octopuses--in the scientific Yet there is no consensus among researchers the next galaxy should look like: are they similar enough to us or so different Try to follow along and we will Some argue that it is futile to our imaginations would be too constrained embrace the amazing heterogeneity and unusual Well, if I may express my In my opinion, science can help us allowing us to make realistic assumptions about Many - like me - are confident that unambiguous and universal. And that they work If there is one thing we know for certain about are a product of evolution by natural selection. exception. They find it hard to believe that are also applicable to exoplanets. astronomers of the twentieth century, life existed elsewhere in the universe, biology is a literally terrestrial and provincial special case in a universe of diverse biologies.&quot; reasons to be cautious. But why should biology universal? Shouldn't the laws of nature, be common to the entire universe? of scholars in the scientific community who aliens, if they exist, cannot be so hypothesis they usually invoke a well-known Basically, species subjected to the same by natural selection, similar anatomical features. to a cartilaginous fish like a shark. Even a ocean of a distant exoplanet would probably But just a moment... before we get into which aliens we are talking about... On our different species... from the whale to the ascertaining the differences between any animals well... then we would already have the answer... variety of shapes and sizes of our fauna to environmental conditions similar to our own species extraordinarily different from each other. terrestrial and marine, flying and terrestrial... Not identical in form to terrestrial ones, by environmental and evolutionary pressure. a large number of Earth-like sentient worlds, we forms designed by physical and biological bird/bat-shaped flying creatures, four-limbed upright, two-armed, large-headed bipedal It should therefore be clear that when we speak of we must mean only morphological comparisons express a technologically advanced civilization! inhabited by millions of very strange species... question: If aliens from other star systems came &quot;Hey, guys, just a moment before we continue... Click on the bell, you will help us to First, a true alien would have endothermic with excellent manipulative If we consider the living beings present complex ones, particularly on land, it is possible to divide the body with a sagittal This is true for a human, as well as for only possible configuration; for example, an On Earth, all the most complex The appearance of bilateral symmetry evolution of living things on Earth. symmetry moved in a single direction, and into contact with its surroundings The sensory organs therefore developed to detect the characteristics of the sooner, and for the data from these the nerve centers that performed this Over time, millions and millions of years, which contains the brain and has the sense Most scholars believe, based on what animal species on our planet, that even a would exhibit some symmetry, probably bilateral. &quot;that our evolutionary path is the result so much so that if it were possible to restart thousands of times, not a single other and all the more reason that this would be that is nonetheless alien to our own. might therefore not have bilateral or even it appear quite different from us. Such ungainly to our eyes because of how our But this is an objection that could be answered about could only occur among lower animals evolve to the point of technology. The by in their environment, but they certainly no matter how pliant their tentacles are, An ability they did not develop because it Deciding factors would be the the host planets. Earth's fauna, including humans, is absolutely determined by the history of the climate change, habitat adaptation, and for example, the impact of large meteorites means that even under exactly the same geographic of a planet identical to Earth, with the same evolution could certainly have taken totally differences far greater than a pair of pointy However, there are two environmental the evolution of an ecosystem. the development of all organisms. In addition to imposes several very specific adaptations. Earth. Organisms that made the transition from skeletons because they no longer had the buoyancy Of course, on Earth, with the same gravity, there mosquito to the blue whale (the latter probably animal on our planet), but there are probably To be able to process metals, for example, a just as, on the other hand, a being the size developing aircraft capable of supporting These are just two examples of how dimensions too insurmountable limitation, at least a major brake Imagine a hypothetical situation in which would not necessarily force all complex life on the likelihood of being bipedal humans we could maintain our two-legged method shorter and have larger bones to accommodate an Earth with half the gravity would Earth animals would require less muscle and in general, would be taller and larger. While we life in high or low gravity, there is no way to would further alter the appearance of alien life. directing evolution... For example, Carboniferous period some 300 million years counterparts (dragonflies nearly a meter long was due to higher atmospheric oxygen content: And OK... all this means that similar regardless of their evolutionary history. The canonical example is the mouth shape of the on a small scale of the mouth shape of whales even they are both filter feeders of microscopic jaws. That shape is the most efficient to do that If we went to another planet and found an animal it would have the same mouth shape. in similar environments. The fact that the Final considerations has come down to us, or at any rate possesses it will be of an intelligence at least equal to view can only be structurally very similar to us. scaly skin, number of fingers varying from three it will definitely be similar to us in size, head with eyes and openings for mouth and nose. will not be a gelatinous, telepathic blob tapping on computer keys...nor will it be a who took over the science of space travel So what about you guys, whose side are you on? The Divergent Evolution: Do One of the main lines of thought in contemporary life will be very similar to us in many ways, are considered. This is because the processes independently of the environment, and also of feasible options. Therefore, the probability cosmos may be very high, although the probability truth is that we know very little. For example, of a cosmic lottery or if life has appeared if a hypothetical ET would follow the same laws supports life. There is little doubt that physical but there is not the same certainty about life on another planet, we might not even be able advanced aliens might be a blow to our self-esteem than our own. But if that first contact ever the aliens may be so different from us that At first, glance, trying to imagine the advanced extraterrestrial seems like an absurdly know if intelligent beings of extraterrestrial might be or what their morphology might be. what we know about the evolution of possible extraterrestrial planetary environments, THE TWO VIEWS of intelligent extraterrestrials is divided into a more anthropomorphic view of ET and believe that two legs, a head on top of the body, and the the other hand, some exobiologists believe that form because the creature would inevitably have from that of humans and would have arisen in a THE ANTHROPOMORPHIC VIEW may not be so different from us, and to support phenomenon called convergent evolution. environmental pressures tend to develop similar This is why a mammal like a dolphin looks Even a creature that evolved and lived in would probably evolve a fish-like the laws of physics are the same here as According to proponents of the humanoid form, speculation about ET morphology must take where it was in an aquatic environment that develop. And it was the first marine creatures determine the future form of Earth's inhabitants This form, in addition to being the most minimized resistance and turbulence in of all marine creatures, then ---- intelligence - as it is tied to the use of tools among terrestrial species. The use of tools by due to the density and viscosity of water. can only arise in predators. What about birds? like the crow, for example... But for an alien a technological type of intelligence, it would and fingers. Which is obviously incompatible Yes, because the development of legs, arms, and step on the ET's path to intelligence. ability to hold and manipulate basic tools and such as clubs, spears, knives, and tendons this with movement speed, otherwise our E.T. to their comfort zone and never being able to The issue of the number of limbs is one of the of intelligent ET. The four limbs we have are the mammalian ancestors, which was in turn inherited land. But is there an optimal number of limbs? useless... For strictly mechanical reasons, define a surface plane: two points form only levers will promptly fall face down. We humans provide additional points of contact with at least three legs are necessary. biologists say no. A three-legged creature at which point it loses its planar support precarious situation. Four-legged creatures seem creature can remain balanced when one leg is in so should all limbs evolve in pairs as well? bipeds and quadrupeds keep two or fewer limbs three-point stability is probably unnecessary. with even fins: the descendants of a starfish, More than four legs are also plausible for are often used for highly specialized purposes, flexible trunk of elephants. The key to superior for an extra limb is far less than that needed to of new neurons, but eyeballs require millions. to sensory functions, while only a small fraction likely to have extra arms than extra eyes or ears. have four limbs only because they share a instead evolved from Euthacanthus, a Devonian we might be hexapods or even heptapods today! on six legs. On high-gravity worlds, hexapods and reduce the risk of bone fractures. Injury four-legged humans than for six-legged humans better balance because, unlike quadrupeds, they ground even at high speeds. difficult to coordinate all those legs... there seems to be no escape from the dictatorship The exotic forms invoked by some astrobiologists but the point is that they are not evolutionarily have achieved technological intelligence in the EXOTIC BIOLOGY argue that there is very little chance that given all the possible variables that could make a to the particular geological, atmospheric, physical ones (first and foremost, the force planetary ones (e.g., a habitable planet could than Earth's); and biological ones, related to One possibility often suggested by more radical depend on the chemistry that does not require undeniably the optimal chemistry on planet Earth, around silicon, which is very common in the sand This could affect the body structure require different types of proteins, enzymes, For example, an alien might have very thick, completely different vascular system to transport In the 1960s and 1970s, the famous astronomer Carl species could evolve indifferently on land, sea, sizes, colors, appendages, and opinions. fiction of those years, which began to imagine such as sentient clouds of interstellar or bizarre &quot;balloon&quot;-shaped creatures a hydrogen-based metabolism instead of oxygen. beings might resemble insects, birds, fish, or be sticky jellyfish-like creatures (like the or even exist as a planet-sized ocean intelligence But old-school biologists &quot;How could these creatures have become fanciful hypotheses, without the slightest And to this, the exobiologists reply that if the alien life forms, then it is necessary to and accept creatures that differ from us in is a popular one in the field of evolution, reproduce all the physical characteristics over billions of other distant worlds... decades, or even centuries, but it's still nice will affect our great-grandchildren P.S. And you, what do you think? Are you on the side of the old biologists or on These are some considerations in defense