This is Waterloo Park in downtown Austin, the state capitol building. It's got walking through the center, and it has this strange And this is Ladybird Lake, formerly Town Lake, flows into the lake, there's another strange so you know what I'm getting at here. It turns not just by the creek that runs through downtown Waller Creek Tunnel is about 26 feet (or 8 meters below downtown Austin. It's not meant for cars or filled cables, and it's not even meant to carry quickly get water out of this narrow downtown area rate of 8,500 cubic feet per second. That's 240 olympic sized swimming pool in about 10 seconds. Most major cities use underground pipes as drains flood streets and inundate populated areas. But, of places across the world have taken the idea the only thing cooler than a huge tunnel is a huge from floods. And I built a model flood tunnel from and learn just a few of the engineering challenges and this is Practical Engineering. In today's Floods are natural occurrences on earth, and in environment by creating habitat and carrying the area surrounding a creek or river that is not beneficial to cities. They are among the worldwide. If a flood swells a creek or river not ideal for the few homeowners who are impacted, major city, the consequences can be catastrophic systems shutdown. What that means in practice dollars on flood infrastructure to protect densely solutions. And heavily developed downtown areas space for traditional protection projects and they We can't change the amount of water that develop ways to manage that water once it's on just to avoid development within the floodplain. inundation during heavy storms. Seems simple, that have been developed since well before Another way we manage flooding is storing allowing it to be released slowly over time. creating a reservoir could mean demolishing management strategy is bypassing - sending cause fewer impacts. Once again, not an option in for the water to go... unless you start thinking free from the confines of the earth's surface and past developed areas to be released further This is my model downtown business district. It's running right through the center. I have a flow moving through that beautiful river, and here on depth. Take a look at many major cities that have a weir or dam just like this to maintain some deep enough for boats or in some cases, just Antonio. I put some blue dye and mica powder in I also have a big clear pipe with an inlet just below the dam. Looking at this model, it as slapping a big pipe to where you want the flood most of the time, they're not happening. In flood. And if you're the owner of a flood bypass responsible for a gigantic pipe full of water wait. Watch what happens when I turn down the see on a typical day. If we just leave the city draining the channel like a bathtub and leaving Standing water creates an environmental and so it loses dissolved oxygen that is needed Without dissolved oxygen, rivers become dead rotting organic material. Stagnant water also just unpleasant to be around. It's not something issue is gates, a topic I have a whole other video you equip your gigantic flood bypass tunnel with goes into the tunnel versus what continues in the off most of the tunnel entrance. I still have some the river, keeping it from getting stagnant. you'll see interesting structures at the inlets. just down the road in San Antonio. In addition to out) the main purpose of these structures is to But, some creeks and rivers don't just have Intermittent streams only flow at certain times of rains. Take a look at the stream gage for Waller the flow in the creek is essentially zero. But, of habitat on the surface, you want more water to divert any of the scarce flows available into off completely, because then the water inside the "So what? It's down there below the ground as soon as the next big flood comes you're going to push a massive slug of creating an environmental hazard downstream. some flood tunnels, including the one in Austin, upstream. I put a little pump in the model from the river downstream and delivers it allows you to double dip on benefits during low it doesn't stagnate and you actually increase That's 99 percent of managing a flood bypass normal flows. But of course, all that flood comes. Let's turn the model all You can see the tunnel collecting flows, below the dam away from the developed area. allowing a good proportion of the flood flows to the river still rose during the flood, so the city was protected. Let's plug the Turning up the model to full blast causes the In this case, it's not a huge difference, but into buildings is enough to create enormous any margin for increased flows, a big peak in So, comparing flood levels between the it's easy to see the benefits of a flood lowering peak levels and pulling property and making it possible to develop more densely in improving water quality, and maintaining times. Of course, a tunnel is an enormous are truly one of the most complicated and but they're also one of the only ways to I've been referencing projects in central Texas immense cost and complexity, flood bypass tunnels famous is the Tokyo Metropolitan Area Outer this enormous cathedral of a subsurface tank. the Tokyo tunnel needs huge pumps to get the some tunnels aren't just for stormwater. Many stormwater and wastewater, so everything flows to these plants see enormous influxes of water into rivers or the ocean. One of the largest in design and construction in Chicago since until 2029. The Tunnel and Reservoir Plan (or combine with a number of storage reservoirs into and polluting local waterways. And we projects wouldn't be feasible. After record Houston started looking into the viability future downpours. A 2.5-million-dollar engineering system of tunnels might be a feasible solution the floodplain. If they do move forward with complete the superfecta of major metropolitan but represent just one more of the many cities use of valuable land on earth's surface by A superfecta, by the way, is which is also the number of members in my like 2 versus 2. The two babies have their &quot;One of the kids already got a That's why I'm thankful for HelloFresh, delicious meal kits that use pre-portioned now. We don't have to do the planning and but we do get to do the fun part &quot;It's just butter and bread crumbs?&quot; &quot;Mm-hmm&quot; &quot;That's what my life should be made of.&quot; Just the job of choosing what to eat is hard what's in season. And, having kids has given me a it easy to expose them to all kinds of foods, not &quot;Do you want to admit out loud that you've never We've been doing this since before these two to do on a date night in, and it's still that shortcut to healthy and delicious meals for the they have an awesome promotion going HelloFresh dot com and use code PRACTICAL16 at Just give it a shot and see if it doesn't and use code Practical16. Thank you for