Ordering food delivery feels a lot more luxurious than it used to. Not because the food's gotten any better... or the experience... or anything really. It's just all gotten a lot more expensive. I put this order together and it came out to $36 with Tip. But I'm a consistent guy. I usually order the same thing So I went to my email and looked through the same exact order was only $19.27, $26 We all know that ordering in the app But why? Look at all these fees, service fees. Okay, that makes sense. They're providing a service-delivery. But then what's delivery fee? And this one irks me the most. The New York Courier fee, which Uber laws, minimum wage laws that the companies It's almost like they're hiding by blaming being forced The real culprits expensive are a handful of massive And that is when it turns into the pile of shit And don't tell me Many restaurants no longer employ in-house have seized a duopoly on 96% of the They've used that market power to replace a system That scam has made them immensely Uber's delivery business That's a 173% increase from the year And DoorDash pulls in a ludicrous 49% Its middleman capitalism, this: I'm going to order us some pizza. From where? And food delivery is just one example middlemen are taking your money Do you remember these If you want to check snow conditions If you want to check There's an app for that. Yep, there's an app That catchy slogan symbolized a promise. Whatever you need, there's an app for it. The examples in the ad were for things to have a new tool for, Either the apps cost a dollar Other than the infamous 'I'm Rich' app, and did nothing But importantly, most of what the apps did Existing web retailers but there weren't many apps that provided Even up through the early 2000s food the domain of Chinese, pizza and diners. Restaurants saw delivery as an extra table were just another waiter And a lot of restaurants because it simply wasn't economical. SeamlessWeb, A company that originally for workplaces, pivoted to individual And GrubHub launched These apps just connected users who still used their own delivery guy the restaurant's fees of 15 to 25% and let restaurants charge Restaurants were pretty happy so made it worth it to have a full time And customers were happy new range of restaurants in 2008 and 2009 a few tech millionaires came together that would let you order a fancy black car They named it Uber. To understand the idea was allegedly inspired spending $800 on a private car Eve and finding that far too expensive. the other co-founder, Travis Kalanick, is. Here's a clip of him When you open up that app I pushed the frickin I'm a pimp, Garret is the guy who invented that shit. Kalanick's old Twitter Atlas Shrugged But everyone knows That's like watching The Sopranos because you like pasta. For 45 seconds, stir it up real nice. At the same event as the pimp quote. About two years after the launch of Uber, to dominate and replace public Uber would not be where it is today The SFMTA. That's the San Uber started as an S.F. exclusive, providing black cars In the next few years, Uber saw a ton of investment from venture This huge influx of cash make Uber rides really cheap. Do you remember that the cheap cars Drivers from small taxi because it's where all the customers were Riders started defaulting to Uber or even take public transit. And everyone had the app on their phone. Uber had seized the market Food delivery in 2014. But it doesn't make any business sense. The rides were cheaper than it to pay the drivers, cover other expenses How does any of this work? What's the business model? Cory Doctorow has a word for it. Enshittification is a theory I came up By platform, he means web platform. But this goes beyond the Internet It's a three phase process. Phase one, The users pile on, they get locked in. Think of Google or Facebook. Platforms that started off free Tools that slowly became nearly mandatory Phase two: confident that those users are It makes things worse for those end users, So for Facebook or Google, that's paying for anything, and they both gave you up knowing full well you'd made the platforms There's lots of different technical tricks Like if you're Uber, you can drive all the taxis out of business If you're Amazon, you can lock people in to buying a year's worth Then comes phase three. Once those business customers are also and it gives it to itself. Let's apply that to Uber. They made Uber easy to use cheap then started to pay drivers and now they're finally starting At that time, the vast orders placed over the phone. Remember that you'd call or whatever, and a guy who worked You'd pay him for the food, tip him, It made sense. But the delivery companies decided And GrubHub told restaurants their menu prices so the restaurants couldn't make customers but also making it so the customer thought eliminating whatever competitive advantage Then they made a real mob like move. They bought up domain names of restaurants so that those restaurants couldn't basically forcing any restaurant people, Googling Then came the new delivery thing. What we're really talking about here, GrubHub was restaurants but UberEats and DoorDash They had their own responsible for their own vehicles, picking up the orders And Uber Eats had the power of scale. Everyone had Uber on their phones already, they did originally with cars They had the surplus, right? They had a ton of money and they gave it to us They heavily discounted They paid the restaurants full price, less than they were paying. Well, And if that's all they ever did. Hell, I'm all for it. Right? Let let Peter Teal buy me dinner every They wanted you hooked. So when they raised prices, Once they've used their venture They jacked up prices. Now, most people go to Uber or DoorDash Meaning restaurants are beholden Otherwise, no one will order from them. Uber charges restaurants, and it's a tiered service. So the more the restaurant pays, the Meaning when you search Thai food, aren't the highest rated, closest The WHO pays the most and Uber pushes this marketing service Meaning, if every Thai restaurant buys They're all equal The only entity that wins is Ubereats. Everybody gets screwed by the platform And unlike Seamless and GrubHub, are often higher in app Because Uber eats encourages They openly recommend it generally, a middleman like a distributor only makes money once they buy something Uber Eats makes money off the restaurant they charge customers. I went through my email and found an old and I made the same exact order Except the restaurant weirdly So I just got egg fried rice. Pre-chicken, if you will. It came out to 33% more than it did in 2019, Then there's this story about a woman in Seattle Yeah, there's a lot of absurdity to the very act of getting This especially bothered me that the high fees were entirely due to new laws in Seattle But it makes sense The delivery apps like New York customers see regulatory fees blaming requirements put in place The apps could just roll these costs and never tell us what it's for. But they want you to blame the wage The $25 coffee article came protections. That's a clear attempt by Uber and DoorDash Imagine the app had an executive explaining the real reason you had to pay hand it to a venture capital billionaire I posted this line about the $25 coffee too much about it, dunking on the customer It's an easy villain to paint a lazy, that the servants she hired to bring her but she's not really the villain She's on the same side as the driver It's almost to meet the guilt. You see, when you order Uber eats, But it's okay to want convenience. Cory was adamant about this after There's nothing wrong with wanting I don't think it's a sin And I don't think it's a sin to not want to have to work The problem is that there's like a false then uses investor capital People expect convenience today created a false promise of a more But really, they just set up a system to Innovation is good, and it's But what these people are doing that are working just fine to transfer They did it too, and beat it. The rise of dating apps because the apps became And now most of these apps charge And they're doing it to health care, where the founders end up in prison, but connect you to doctors to rip off or this doctor in a box, or streaming apps but prices keep going up and creator wages and prayer apps that are basically adding and thinking they want you to pay We've built a supposedly around the same issues The Apple two plus went on shelves trail These are two factors So all of the policies that defined weak labor protection, weak all of those get more extreme The capital markets did not open until it became clear by saying it's not a labor violation. We did it with an app. You can cheat privacy We did it with an app. You can cheat consumer rights It's not a bait and switch. And what are they really even providing? It comes down to two things. Supposedly But now that innovation anyone could build a simple app So it's just about scale. It doesn't have to be this way capital billionaires derive value, Order directly from restaurants the ones that won't support worker those who need apps, the New York working to seize back power the government to fight app monopolies and don't believe the apps when they try When you see a driver, a minimum wage fee, Blame the executives and venture on your receipt.