- [Petter] Have you ever heard a saying, &quot;If something can go Well, that was certainly where extraordinary circumstances brought two passenger aircraft Stay tuned. - (indistinct) Mike. Actually I'm-- - Before I start, did you know before anyone else completely ad-free if you have a premium membership There are also loads so go and check it out. The 21st of October, 2020 in Northern France. An intense low pressure was moving up from the Bay of Biscay and it had brought with it with wind speeds of up to 50 knots at an altitude of only A jet stream is a narrow band that often travels from west to east over the Northern Hemisphere but normally at a generally around 30,000 to 35,000 feet. Now, when you have winds traveling that fast at lower altitudes, they will also be hitting mountains, hills, trees and buildings. And at these higher speeds, as low-level turbulence. On this day, the pilots who were given significant weather forecasts showing moderate to occasionally especially around the in Paris, France. And at 28,000 feet, en route this morning was It was being flown on behalf Air France 7739 and it had two pilots, two cabin crew and 58 passengers on board. Now, we have no information about the experience that the first officer was pilot flying and the captain pilot monitoring. As they were getting closer the first officer handed over and started setting up the She knew, from the airport's Automatic Terminal Information Service, the ATIS, that she could into Runway 26 Left The weather she received a wind of 220 degrees, visibility of 10 kilometers broken at 4,000 feet, a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius, dew point of 12 and a QNH pressure setting of 1,001 hectopascals. There was also a attached to the ATIS which warned below 1,500 feet, as expected. The first officer knew a quite challenging approach. The wind was reported meaning that in the worst case, she would have to battle crosswinds of around 20 knots in the gusts. When the winds that they change in intensity, their direction also tends to change, making it even more difficult to handle but a crosswind of 20 knots was well within the of the Embraer 170 so Now, given the report together with this crosswind, the first officer decided to add to her normal approach briefing what she would do A windshear is a potentially where the wind suddenly and since an aircraft gets its lift from the amount a sudden rapid increase can have quite severe consequences. Because of this, have stipulated specific procedures in case of wind shear warning start deviating outside certain criteria even if there is no warning. These criteria are normally of indicated air Speed or 500-feet-per-minute five degrees pitch attitude change or one dot sudden displacement or unusual thrust lever position If any of these indications as the aircraft being in a wind shear. Now, the precise procedure in detail between different aircraft types but its objective remains the same: keep the aircraft flying In case of the ERJ-170, the procedure to follow up for the pilot flying push both thrust levers up to max, press the TOGA buttons and follow the flight director This would keep the speed and keep the wings level. Remember that. The procedure also stipulated that no configuration except lowering the speed brakes if they were used. This was to make sure that in a stall if the flaps were retracted and the speed suddenly disappeared and that the gear would still be out if ground contact became a factor. Now in the case of the pilot monitoring, his role wasn't specifically explained in the Hop wind shear procedure except that he needed to call out As the first officer briefed of a wind shear and what they would do if it happened, she also specified that the procedure would have to be continued until and the aircraft had climbed as per the Hop procedures. When the first officer was finished with her briefing, The captain asked air traffic control for descent and they proceeded with completing their descent checklist. At the same time, down on the ground in Charles de Gaulle Airport, a crew from Brussels Airlines were getting their Airbus A320 They were operating and the four cabin crew members had just finished boarding for the short skip over toward Brussels while the two pilots were finishing up the final flight deck preparation. As soon as they were done, they completed their requested pushback and start from their stand and started taxiing out for departure from Runway 26 Right, the parallel runway to the Now, we don't know much about the technical status of the Airbus nor about the experience of the pilots but that will not be relevant But what will be relevant of Charles de Gaulle Airport in itself. The airport has four with 27 Right and Left being placed on the and 26 Left and Right On the 21st of October, in its Southern configuration, meaning that the departing aircraft and the arriving aircraft, Runway 26 Left. This type of operation was known as: Simultaneous Movements and was subject to special rules that the approaching on the parallel runways didn't One of those rules specified could not be closer to each counted from one center line to the other. In the case of Charles de Gaulle however, this distance was only 384 meters which was less than half This was, of course, not a secret. The airport had been required and were granted this because they could show that they had plans in place for immediate controller intervention in case a go-around would happen at the same time as a departure to make sure that both aircraft On top of that, there had also of wake turbulence and other factors, enough to convince that the parallel operation was still safe to conduct. All of this will soon as we're getting closer but before I will tell you what happened, I have another important message. Let me share something Trying to be both an airline pilot, can sometimes feel pretty overwhelming. And the reason that is because it's connected to the sponsor of today's video, BetterHelp. I only allow companies to be featured on my channel I decided to try them out had any tips on how to work with myself to be and maybe also stop Signing up for their I just filled in some online forms, explained who I was and then they quickly connected me with a fantastic therapist. It was super convenient with her directly from my mobile device and we ended up talking going through exactly and what tools that she had that I could use in order to change. It was really, really great. Now other ways they have to connect with your therapist can be done via text, chat or via phone, whatever makes you feel more at ease and it can and environments that suits you. To try this out for yourself, And by clicking on the link below or using that link, on your first month And, as always, you'll also Thank you BetterHelp. Now as we're talking between aircraft, it's worth discussing the kind of barriers to make sure an airborne First of all, when we're talking we have mandatory This means that, for example, for a while after the until the next one can go through either time separation This kind of separation takes into account as well as the throughout the entire flight, even on routes where there are also additional separations in force aircraft following each other On top of this, aircraft with, at least, 1,000 feet and, normally, even more than that. This is achieved, partially, flying on odd flight levels and westbound flights flying on even. Now, there are many more complicated and more specific rules but, ultimately, it's up to both to make sure that proper separation is always maintained. We must all work proactively a potential separation problem with the established rules, has created an extraordinary safe system. But, of course, any system or by mistake so if that would happen, there also needed to be the Traffic Collision I will go into the origin in a different video but the way by radio boxes in each aircraft These boxes are known as transponders and they transmit their own position, speed and vertical speed to everyone around. If two of these transponders to get close to each other, to an oral-- - [Petter] Which also on each aircraft navigation display showing where the concerned traffic is. That alert normally happens about 45 seconds and if nothing is done, into a resolution advisory is about 25 seconds away. That will turn the previously and a red trapezoid will appear on the pilot's primary flight display, showing the pilots how to pitch This is also accompanied for example: - And both aircraft will Now if a pilot gets a that will take priority clearance from Air Traffic Control. The pilot flying is supposed the automatics and follow of course, still making sure within safe flying parameters. The pilot monitoring have of the pilot flying call air traffic control and tell them their call sign and TCAS RA. This is really important the air traffic controller know from their clearance and as the TCAS maneuvers will have priority over air traffic control. This will make sure even if a faulty clearance or an individual mistake has been made. Now, if ATC would issue the pilot will simply and keep following This is really important. Once the transponders feel the resolution advisory will stop - [TCAS] Clear of conflict. - Will be issued. The pilot monitoring will advising them that they and returning to their From that point onwards, start issuing clearances and probably some harsh reports written. But one thing to point out here is that TCAS will only never a turn. About 20 minutes prior the pilots of Hop Flight 7739 from flight level 280. Given the challenging conditions, they had decided that the approach should be flown with flaps five which would give them of 142 knots and they that the wind was not exceeding their maximum allowed From my point of view, seems to have been very They received several and around time 1017, towards Runway 36 Left They reported this to who cleared them for approach to Charles de Gaulle tower As flight 7739 called up the tower and announced that on the ILS for Runway 26 Left, the Airbus A320 from Brussels Airlines was getting closer for Runway 26 Right. The controller welcomed gave them the latest surface wind of 190 degrees, 22 knots, gusting 32 and then cleared them to land. Now this was more left crosswind than the crew had but it was still well within The Brussels Airlines aircraft They were fully ready for departure so they announced who told them to line up and wait, Runway 26 Right. This was read back and the Airbus started slowly moving into through the howling wind outside. Back in the cockpit of the ERJ-170, the pilots were preparing They configured the aircraft flaps five as planned the aircraft was fully ready for landing with At this point, the first officer Now it's pretty common a bit earlier during to get more of a feel for the aircraft and get ready for the landing. Handling an aircraft with gusty, almost straight crosswinds and it requires a lot The crosswind was coming meaning that the nose of the aircraft also would have pointed to the left. In order to keep tracking was constantly changing, have needed to keep to keep the aircraft flying straight. The constant control inputs because of the moderate turbulence that they were also flying through. Now a good way of thinking about how it is to fly is trying to picture a boat that is trying to move from one side with a stream of water coming, You constantly need to account for and correct for the current As the ERJ passed 500 feet, the Airbus on the right parallel runway that the surface wind was now 200 degrees at 21 knots, gusting 36 This was read back the Airbus Pilots pushed and started accelerating At this point, the ERJ was passing its decision height of 200 feet and just as they did, dropped from 139 knots to 125 The captain called out, &quot;Speed!&quot; And just as he did so, the oral-- - (beeping) Wind shear. The captain now Which was confirmed who immediately initiated just like they had briefed before. She pushed the thrust levers and then started following on her primary flight display. The aircraft immediately and all of this was done exactly But remember how we talked of the wind shear escape manuever was to keep the wings In a normal go-around, the lateral navigation mode very early on and that would have guided them to follow the approved but that isn't the case in a wind shear. So as the aircraft now kept and started climbing into from the left, what do you think happened? Just like that boat in the river would do if the stream suddenly it now started drifting to the right, closer and closer to the parallel runway where the Airbus was now departing. And this was further compounded by a slight change which happened when Eight seconds after the the wind shear warning stopped. The ERJ was at an altitude their procedure told them to a minimum of 1,500 feet so that's what they were doing. Three seconds after the warning called out that they but at almost the same time, suddenly activated, from both system one and two. This can sometimes happen is increased abruptly to max from the engines which But it wasn't a immediately It would be something after they go around was completed and because of this, the captain just reset the master caution warning without saying anything further but even though there was it's likely that this the workload in the cockpit And it was about to As the pilots in the ERJ were executing their wind shear escape maneuver, the pilots of the Brussels Airlines Airbus was blissfully unaware of this. They had just rotated and establishing their initial climb pitch which caused the almost Back in the ERJ, things were now a little bit for the pilots. They were passing 1,500 feet, climbing, towards the missed approach altitude of 4,000 feet and since the wind shear was now gone, the captain and informed them that they had gone around straight ahead When the controller heard this, them right back. He had seen that the ERJ didn't worry him since he assumed that the missed approach He had no idea about and how that was affecting were flying their missed approach. Instead he was now trying which was controlling to allow the ERJ He normally had direct contact but this wasn't working so he now had to call That meant a further without any turn instruction the ERJ kept drifting In the cockpit, the ERJ crew at their present heading of 259 degrees. They had also started pitching retract flaps and the landing gear in accordance with their procedures. Apart from that, they were standing by for further ATC guidance, But, of course, what they didn't know was that below them, climbing fast towards them. At time 10:22:14 seconds, after the initiation of an oral, &quot;Traffic, traffic,&quot; warning was issued inside both the ERJ At the same time, called the ERJ crew and asked them to make an immediate turn The use of the term, &quot;Immediate&quot; reserved for serious events where action needs to happen right away. The ERJ Captain responded, entered it in the Mode Control Panel and the aircraft started turning. As he did so, a short-term conflict, an STCA, was issued indicating that the two aircraft were now getting way One second later, as the ERJ a TCAS resolution advisory the crew to, &quot;Climb, climb.&quot; The pilot flying, again, and pushed the thrust levers and started following but this also meant that she stopped her turn on a heading of 250 degrees. This meant that the left turn was now not being followed. At the same time, the transponder also issued their resolution advisory; in their case, &quot;Level off! Level off!&quot; Which the pilots immediately to stop their climb at around 2,000 feet. As the pilots were complying desperately called the Airbus crew asking them to, &quot;Stop climb altitude, uh, stop climb the But to that the Airbus crew which was the correct thing to do. Now if you're wondering why it was because from his vantage point, he saw that the ERJ-170 as he had asked them to do. And he could also see was still climbing and it actually leveling off. When he then looked down the two aircraft radar echoes combined and could not be which must be a terrible feeling. The controller later explained that it made him feel very powerless. The ERJ captain now called up and said, &quot;We have also had a TCAS RA.&quot; And to be perfectly honest, the only real mistake made was to not advise the controller as soon as they received it. Since the Airbus had now stopped climbing and the ERJ was the, &quot;Clear of conflict,&quot; message and even though they the controller of this fact, a further left turn The controller then again told to which they, this time, as it was in line with and a few seconds later, to turn right onto a and continue their climb. They then continued their flight whilst the ERJ-170 executed and landed uneventfully. At the closest point, 0.09 nautical miles away That's 166 meters and only That's very close when you're traveling at around 90 meters per second. But the system did work. The last Safeguard kept from happening just as The task for the investigators, of course, now became to figure out in the first place. The crew of the ERJ-170 were interviewed and the investigators could that they had, with the exception done a great job under the circumstances. The same went for the pilots Everyone had done, within reason, what they were expected to do. So this naturally turned to the design on the airport to operate parallel operations with the two runways It was quickly found that rules from parallel runways had provisions for abandoning this type of operation if the crosswind condition but that was not the case with simultaneous This, and the fact that where the pilot cannot nor missed approach procedure had not been taken into account in the studies that led soon became very clear. It was also found that had already happened had taken place at The recommendations was for the French aviation authorities to reassess the suitability at Charles de Gaulle of wind shear escape maneuvers. It also suggested that ICAO for when these type of parallel operations would be allowed during like wind shear, turbulence Now for us pilots, how important proper phraseology can be in situations like this in order to keep everyone in the loop. It also showed how important in checking the overall situation of the aircraft and maintaining about what's happening around you. If the weather is very it might be a good idea when you're on the approach of a go-around. That could help the controller to check for potential threats early and to give them in case of a go-around actually happening. The Hop operations manual that the wind shear escape maneuver was out of the wind shear not just at 1,500 feet. Now I found this to with a lot of complex components and a great example uses incidents to keep If you want to see more videos like this, well then check out these a member of my wonderful Patreon crew. That will help me to continue There are links to both my Patreons, in the description below so go down and check them out. Have an absolutely fantastic day and I'll see you next time, bye-bye.