My name is Robert Mazur. I spent two years undercover laundering tens of millions of dollars for Pablo Escobar's cartel. This is how crime works. Money laundering enables cartels to produce the most lethal thing that they produce around the It enables them to be presidents of countries. Operation C-Chase was a to prosecute the biggest money launderers of the Medellin cartel. Most of the people I dealt with were high-level drug traffickers who had hundreds of millions of dollars. I'm doing this interview in silhouette because two agencies and an that the Medellin cartel I spent a year and a half is one of the more sophisticated I built the persona of Robert Musella. I dressed the part. Drove a Rolls-Royce, Mercedes, Jaguar. I was embedded in real businesses. Had an air charter service We had a jewelry chain with 30 A lot of cash goes through every single day. So if you've got those you have a very good excuse I was embedded in an investment company, a mortgage-brokerage business, with a seat on the New And then I and my partner began a two-year infiltration and the banks that were supporting them. One of the keys to doing undercover work is to build your undercover persona to have as many traits Robert Musella was from Staten Island. I'm from Staten Island. Robert Musella was a businessman. I have a business background. I didn't fake accents, fake anything. I was always just me. The first person I met that was working within is a gentleman by the a small-time money launderer who had an import-export business. But the capacity he had to launder was probably limited to We had my and simply say, &quot;Listen, my but he never wants to meet you. He wants to stay in the shadows. But if you could ever convince him to come out of the shadows, and you'd be able to launder By the end of that six months, Gonzalo Mora was banging You know, it's always I also knew these people If you're afraid of a dog, they know that. You're the first one they bite. I didn't want to get bit, so I knew that I would be working against myself and undermining my cause if I showed any fear whatsoever. And I told him eventually, &quot;Listen, I have to get that they need to let me Your only responsibility If I succeed, we'll even He felt compelled to and then I started to climb up the ladder, to meet bigger and bigger people. You know, money launderers, are basically operating what's called the black-money market. It's an informal banking to people who operate So, as a black-money-market operator, I have a supply of dollars. My supply comes from drug traffickers. Now I have to find people who People who want to buy dollars are oftentimes importers around the world who otherwise have to go and spend 25% of their money I could sell it to them for 10%. My traffickers, in many So the best people I could were Colombian importers. All I have to do is swap. So, I have supply clients, But most often the money would controlled by the cartel, in Panama, and from there they wherever they wanted to hide it. Well, sometimes the money Like, there was a guy, his responsibility was acquiring and things like that So he basically was the buyer So I dealt with him in order to buy the specific which were Rockwell 1000s Some money is smuggled out of the United States down to Colombia, and it's used to make payoffs or prosecutors or politicians or whoever's help they need to buy. Most of the money's in five, 10s, and 20s. That's because people using illegal drugs buy it with five, 10s, and 20s. That gets collected by people for the cartels to do nothing They try not to have traffickers and money handlers in the same place. Too much asset to potentially be lost. So, the dollars generally duffle bags, boxes. New Get a million, $2 million per delivery. I generally had runners who You don't usually get the guy who really controls the safe on the street. The way it works is we get the information from Gonzalo Mora. So he might give us a phone number in the form of an invoice number. He might say that, you know, &quot;You need to get in touch with Guapo, and he's going to have 250 boxes. It's $250,000.&quot; They generally like to so it might be at a McDonald's. They sit down. Not much gets said. Pushes the keys across the Emir goes and gets the money. It's usually wrapped in rubber bands in blocks of $5,000 and $10,000, dependent upon denominations. A lot of people say, You've got all these millions and it's in cash.&quot; There's unfortunately been people in just about every agency that has fallen victim into My motivation was If I couldn't get the next and I couldn't risk more than I did to get the last piece of information, I felt as though I wasn't Yeah, I was addicted, but I Layering is a process by which usually offshore entities, are used to continue to receive maybe as a suitcase full of cash. The way we layered, the money would first be put into a certificate of in the name of an offshore entity. That money was used by for a loan in a different So let's say the loan was in Paris and that was to a Gibraltar corporation. And then that Gibraltar corporation would transfer the funds to to accounts controlled And so the purpose that is to just confuse the route in which the money is being moved. In order for anyone to you have to first pierce and bank secrecy laws. Then you have to pierce Then you have to pierce You know, a lot of times what they do if they don't want to deal they will use an army of the little blue guys, We kind of dubbed them Smurfs because let's say there's 10 of them. Their job every day is to go to meet with their money contact, and that guy may have and each of them gets $50,000 and a map that tells them to use cash to buy MoneyGrams, cashier's checks, money They'll buy a money order for $987.25 to try to make it look Leave the payee blank. They generally don't want So at the end of the day, was now a stack maybe 8 inches high of money orders, traveler's checks. There were times when to then take it from there and launder it. That was safety for them because we were not having direct contact with their main money people. We were just getting a FedEx box with $500,000 in money orders. I think the biggest deposit was somewhere around $2.1 million. There was a time that I met in Paris with Pablo Escobar's main lawyer, a guy the name of Santiago Uribe, and some other people that He'd sent Uribe to assess our money-laundering processes. And at the end of that meeting, we came to an agreement we would receive, in a relatively short period of time, $100 million that they wanted to put into a nest egg in Europe So, when we get back from Europe, we started getting deliveries. A million in the morning, $2 million in the afternoon. I had told the people who that they needed to be really careful and we needed to try to because they would have And one of the people who I dealt with, a person who met with Pablo Escobar often, told me, &quot;Make sure your people look on the street for gringos,&quot; white guys, &quot;who are in their late 20s, early 30s, in good shape, wearing jeans, pullover shirts with collars, solid color, jogging shoes, fanny packs. That's where their guns are hidden. Those are los feos.&quot; The ugly ones. That's informally what people So, I never used to want but this was getting very important. So I met with the people who were going to do the surveillance, and there was a room full pullover shirts that and they had fanny packs. And I tried to convince them that that was a uniform that but egos are such in law enforcement that sometimes people don't So, anyway, the surveillance got burned, and the next thing that Emir Abreu, received a phone And in the background of Gerardo Moncada, Pablo who was screaming that Musella, I, had to be a DEA undercover agent because they saw all the feds there, and all deals from here on were off. And I had to talk myself out of that. I guess the point is that there are a lot of different moving parts to and it's pretty easy for any one of us to do something that somebody else on the team. All of the traffickers &quot;I love your money-laundering system, but the end payout is US dollar checks from accounts that are We want you to open up US Panama uses the US dollar more than it does its own currency. They know that secrecy is big in Panama by corporations, by to get the information But what they told me also was, &quot;Listen, we want your accounts in Panama because we own Gen. Manuel Noriega, and he will not touch any of your accounts because you're with us.&quot; So now I have to open I happened to be driving of the Bank of Credit and the seventh-largest privately There was a big gold sign. Because I would've never walked in there if it wasn't for that. And they said, &quot;Well, if you can give us a resume.&quot; I had a fully verifiable resume, and I had bank accounts with all of which the bank in particular wanted to see before they opened up to me and explained to me how for many people in organized crime. And I said to him, &quot;All of my clients are They operate businesses here in the States that are very sensitive, and it's my job to very to move capital across borders.&quot; He goes, &quot;Well, that's We have plenty of customers He said, &quot;Yeah, Panama's There's a lot of hands in and sometimes mistakes can be made. And in fact, that's the the Bank of Credit and That got me into the inner circle of dirty officers in BCCI, and then I went on to meet The No. 1 person who managed my accounts, a gentleman by the name of Amjad Awan. He managed accounts for people who ran countries, for Manuel Noriega. He helped launder Noriega's drug profits from the protection he sold And during that time we recorded all of which were used as the cornerstones of the prosecution of and money launderers, but senior officials of the Bank of Credit and I needed to coax the conversations into the areas where I was their involvement in criminality. I couldn't allow them You have to try to get a way So one of the things that I one of the most famous in the late '80s was a guy He ran Chrysler. Everybody knew who he was. And so when I would talk to I would say, &quot;If my you might mistake them The big difference is they don't I dealt with dirty bankers. I dealt with lawyers in Switzerland who formed corporations to I dealt with attorneys in Panama, people who ran that do nothing other than form tens of thousands of corporations for people all over the world. They provide nominee directors that hide the beneficial and the control of corporations. All of these people are intermediaries who the underworld counts on. There were other people, real who were sending what they claimed to be precious metals in and which actually was lead and that was their cover for and were not bashful about it. Talking to the bank and saying, &quot;This is a cash-generating business.&quot; If you have enough that's believable, it's amazing how quickly that you are who you say you are. June of 1988. I was told that it would be that the operation would be taken down. I've got two years' worth of work to do, and I gotta get it done So many times these undercover operations result in indictments, but the bad guys, they're in countries that Colombia was one. Someone suggested, some kind of a personal event?&quot; One of the agents said, &quot;Well, they obviously appear to like Bob. How about a wedding?&quot; So we put this together for a supposed wedding in Innisbrook, which is a country club. This got personal. In some instances, children were part of the wedding. Wives. And the night before, one of my informants went and said, &quot;Hey, Bob doesn't know this. We're going to have a bachelor party. The cars will be here soon.&quot; The arrest team's there. They arrest them. Everybody was in disbelief. And the case concluded with the arrest of about 85 individuals, the collection of fines and forfeitures of about $600 million, and the seizure of about Ultimately, the bank imploded You know, it was all high fives. They wanted to go out and I wanted nothing to do I was emotionally exhausted. I first learned about about 30 days after the Operation C-Chase was over. The longest trial lasted six months. I was on the witness stand. I could see the hatred in their eyes, even more so in the eyes of their family No doubt, they didn't see me as a person who was just doing their job. They saw me as a person who tricked them. But I never tricked other than trusting me. Nobody in there did anything After I testified, my family We went into the mountains, got away from everybody, There was a pager number, an 800 number, that they could call. The office could call and occasionally I would check, and I got word that the jury had convicted every single person of I went back to the campsite by a river and just sat there thinking about it. And it occurred to me that I had done the same things and I was getting awards, and they were about to go And I don't take what I did lightly. Some people think it's a sign of weakness. I did drop a tear or two that day. I kind of think that was good, because I want a I don't want people high-fiving. It's unfortunate, but the and the private sector responsible for trying to have been highly unsuccessful. The United Nations on that roughly $400 billion from the sale of illegal drugs. What I really do believe needs to be done, you have to understand, there are two different sides of banking. There's the sales side Sales side brings in the accounts. Compliance, in an unhealthy to make sure they're not That needs to be brought together. I'm suggesting it only on accounts that have $5 million or more that have been received in a year. I think that the account that brought the account in should have to file with affirming that they've Questions that if you ask them would expose whether that's being run by front people. Those questions don't get asked, and they don't get asked now because the sales side always &quot;If I ask those questions, because they don't want to You know, we have a joint run by the FBI, but it's by I don't know how many hundred agencies. There should be a joint that does the exact same thing. There has been an evolution There are people who've been who have used cryptocurrency. Unlike cash, you can follow crypto. The other problem you have with crypto is you only need to look at Bitcoin and see that unlike the US I don't think it's really ready for the big time in the drug world. What is big? Gold refining in the Middle I retired from undercover work after the second operation and that was in the late '90s. I'm extraordinarily grateful from which I get the opportunity to speak, and that platform is first a that became a New York Times bestseller and the basis for a film by the same name starring Bryan Cranston. And then subsequently, a came out called &quot;The about the second undercover But as long as I've got that platform, I'm going to do everything I that can in some way try to with this massive illegal drug problem in our country