CC by Aberdeen Captioning male announcer: &quot;In Touch&quot; reaching the world of Jesus Christ through Next on &quot;In Touch,&quot; Dr. Charles Stanley: Jesus and the parable of the masterful stories. And this is the setting for this to read, and it is a setting for And if you'll turn to the and I want us to read beginning And you remember that the a mess of his life, and then the him, and the Scripture says in chapter, &quot;So he got up and came But while he was still a way compassion for him, and ran and And the son said to him, heaven and in your sight, I am your son.' slaves, 'Quickly bring out the put a ring on his hand, the fattened calf, kill it, and this my son was dead and has he's been found.' And they began to celebrate.&quot; What was Jesus saying? Jesus was saying simply this: sinners to come home. And he wanted to make a point to who were criticizing Jesus's The Bible says, &quot;The large crowd and He turned and said to them.&quot; And then of course, it talks Sadducees being critical of what And this is the message that That no matter what goes on in a they get--how empty, how wicked, futile their life may be, there to forgiveness, and If that were not true, you and All of us have All of us have had to confess many times. But our names got written in the It only gets there one time. There are no erasures in the And all of us who have trusted names there. And so, it's not a matter of and to see if your name is in It's there all right. And God knows when we're coming Amen? So, I want us to look at this this light. First of all, to look at the took to get where he was, those steps. And so, Jesus describes the life And so, the first word is He was at home. He had everything in the world His father took good care He had a great future, but he because his brother had passed from people traveling about the and how exciting it was, and how how great the situation was. And on and on they went. And so, he became dissatisfied. He looked around and he became didn't have what he needed, but Watch this, be careful what you And secondly, that a desire within him. And that desire was to be able people had mentioned to him. And so, he's sort of tired of Had everything he wanted, but him had a stronger desire. I can tell you what that is. The old sin nature is there to Then came the deception in his &quot;Well, this is not the way I I don't have to live this way. I'm missing something in life. And so, I think I just need to change things a little bit.&quot; So he made a decision. Step by step, he made a He made a decision to leave, parents, his brother, his home, And he had made a decision to That was his decision. &quot;I'm going to leave all of this I'm sick and tired of all this. I'm going to enjoy life That's what every poor sinner in their life. &quot;I want to enjoy life, which I have and I'm going to involve probably wouldn't be acceptable enjoy life.&quot; That's always a decision And so, what follows Departure. He packed up his goods, He didn't pack up many of to buy new clothes. He intended to look He's leaving the old behind him, And so, he left against his but he left. And then comes the delight, and He had plenty of money. He dressed well. He had any kind of have had in those days, but he His dreams were coming true. He was sick and tired of living distant place when all of these a big time. I want to go to a big city. I want to live life and I want I'm tired of living in this This is not a place I want And so, instead of asking: is what it has to offer. So, naturally he began to But like every person who tastes to walk away from God, after the his friends began to run out, worn, when all of that ran out, very disillusioned. Watch this carefully. Sin will always leave you very You may think it's going to And because sin cannot satisfy, satisfied,&quot; for a season, only But even then, when you get by at night and you think about You're living out of the will of He became disillusioned. So, what happens? The further down you go in wrong money, wrong use of of people, and all the rest that what happens? He began to feel hopeless home, it was going to be an Because that's what the devil taste of this, if you had him or this and live there and wear change for you.&quot; Listen, I would never question some pleasure in it. But beneath the pleasure The penalty for sin &quot;The wages of sin is death.&quot; That doesn't mean it's always The wages of sin is death: death death to security. Sin always has a final chapter, physical death and eternal It's not a matter of doing this It's a matter of rejecting Jesus of your life. That's the sin that takes a God and to miss heaven. To be eternally separated from willfully reject Jesus Christ as And so, that's the way he found And finally, he had to give up. He was in total despair. In other words, he ends up And the truth is that people You start out with everything going to be just right and And what happens? You can't tell exactly when it's to happen. But I'm telling you, one of to trip up. One of these days you're going like you were told that they at the mistakes you've made. It looks like you've gotten by Because the soul that sinneth, The wages of sin is death. Be sure your sin You don't get away with it. And so, he finds himself now, How he thought about his father he thinks about them. He lost it all, and he's trying And then by the grace of God, he to think about what he used to And the real story of this about him. And so, what happens is as the prodigal's father. And so, here's the difference. Here's what happens. It's what happens to the father. We know what happens to the son. He's messed up badly. He's lost, totally in total despair. But what about the father? So, look at the steps of the through while his son's been disobedience to God. Remember, first of all, there When he told his father what he his father's heart. You've got to be a dad &quot;I'm--I want my part of it, my I want to live a little bit, and good to me, but I've got to I'm sick and tired of being to do and have limitations And I hear these stories of down the road, telling me where and so forth.&quot; And so, it wounded So God has a wounded heart. And so, the father's thinking, everything for what's going to But you see, people who are sin against God, And so, the next thing you wondered about him continuously, Your son or your daughter's left maybe, some other state. They don't hear from And so, you wonder what's You wonder how they're You wonder about their friends, What do they do on Sunday? Do they go to church What kind of places do they about their father and mother? And so, all the questions that father's mind. And then, of course, in the for him patiently. And how many fathers and grandfathers have waited sons and daughters and deliberately, willfully walked they wanted to live life on They wanted to live life on They want to enjoy some things their home because their parents And they, you know, they talk all of that, so here they are, And the father's thinking about but he's patiently Watch this, watch Jesus is describing our Heavenly me. Not only is he waiting patiently his relationship, he was And he oftentimes, probably look down the road. He could see a pretty good ways, coming and going and would hope been watching for years and he But he didn't give up. What's God saying? I'm not giving up on you either. And so, he watched and he waited and he sometimes was thinking, But maybe he will come back.&quot; And he watched and watched and and yet nothing ever happened. But then there came He wanted him to return soon. He couldn't be--he couldn't come He wanted his son to--no matter whatever he did, whatever had him back. And so, the Scripture enough naturally. I'm sure his brother probably about all that. But he wanted him back. Watch this carefully. I don't know who you are, and what's going on, you've yonder, God still waits for you. He still wants you to He wants you to be wise enough is going to destroy you. Sin ultimately is going to life you want. It may be late in life, it could But God patiently waits as And he wanted him to return And then that last stage is the welcomed him home. And if you could imagine what all that empty time he was one day he was looking, and watching, waiting. And there's something about that looked a little familiar, He--the way he carried himself. And he looked, and he certainly left all dressed up. And he kept looking, and finally and so he took off He didn't stop to say, &quot;Well, anything else. He just took off running. And when he got to him, He didn't stand off and say, What happened to you? Look how you wasted everything. You've lost years.&quot; What did he do? When he saw him, he grabbed And the Scripture uses a term in kissed him and kissed him and hugged him and hugged him and and he said, &quot;We're He's trying to confess sin and his life. He wasn't listening They were going to celebrate no matter what. Now, what was God saying? God was picturing for us, when you get right with Him. And you may be one of those life badly. In fact, you're ashamed to tell And you wouldn't dare tell You've just blown it badly. I want to tell you, the same the same loving Jehovah Yahweh waiting for you. And who will forgive you just And so it, just imagine on the road, father and son once again. Jesus knew how to tell a story. And He was saying to all those out there, of these sinners who are This is what He thinks of them. And so the story, we know it as Thank God He put this Because everywhere, watch this, one of those three persons. Either the forgiving father, the bitter brother. We're all somewhere in there. Where do you see yourself? Are you a forgiving person? Do you hold grudges Are you living in sin? All of us are somewhere And so they had a big the story about the son coming his attitude. But this is all about God. This is all about a and who forgives us. The Bible says, &quot;The wages But you don't have &quot;The soul that sinneth, Yes, but you don't have to. And there's a world of people chosen to disobey God. And probably some of you sitting watching or listening, You came from a home where your where they went to church, and That's old fashioned. You don't do that today. And now where are you? If you face yourself, you know away from God. What you thought was going to you happy. And so, you try this and you try And when you've tried everything realize what you've done Realize what you've done to your of self-esteem, and yet God He will take all of He will forgive all of your sin. He will change your life, He will do for you what you And so, for this father, he was son back. He didn't have to hear He just wanted to celebrate. And what it says is this, the He rejoices when a So, what happens? He forgives his son, restores And so, when we think about that restoring today. There are four other words I words that describe what God is forgiveness. It doesn't make any difference Watch this carefully, you may so mean and rotten and ungodly on drugs, I've been a and on you go. Let me tell you something, you forgive you for. That doesn't mean there's not God's forgiveness, if we confess God that we've lived in sin &quot;If we confess our sins, He's trustworthy, &quot;faithful and just cleanse us from all That's the promise of God. That's the first step. Secondly, acceptance. He not only forgives us of that's the way we are. He accepts you as Watch this carefully, you don't to get God's acceptance. You come to Him pleading as a and His acceptance is on the at the cross. When Jesus died on the cross, He matter what you've done or Forgiveness of our sins, restoration. That is, He restores us. What does He restore? He restores our sense He restores our sense He restores our attitude He restores everything about us. Restoration. It's not enough just to forgive straighten out some other things sin and wrong thinking. And then following all of that, When a person comes to Christ, describe what happens Forgiveness, acceptance, And in the parable, they had This is a simple but awesome that no matter how wicked and is willing to forgive you. Not because you deserve it, not do that, but because when Jesus sin debt of the world upon Him. And anyone who comes to Him surrendering their life to Him written in the Lamb's Book of a child of God. Doesn't mean you're not And you may be saying, &quot;Well, then what? It doesn't mean that you'll this: you have a relationship to You have a relationship to Him He will forgive you of your sin repent of it. If you sin against God as a Yes, there is. But you're a child of God. And so, the grace of God We're always a child of God. Watch this, this is the awesome every person, from Adam to the their salvation, their back to one thing, and that's That's the payment for our sin. And that payment is sufficient God wants us to listen to Him, Him, surrender our life to Him. God wants to bless us And that blessing is available follow Him. So, I'd ask you this: That is, are you a child of God? Has there ever been a time in &quot;At that time in my life, I asked the Lord Jesus Christ to surrendered my life to Him, of any good thing I've done, again, but I want Him I yielded my life to Him. In fact, I got baptized. And I want to live a godly life. And one of these days when He sitting all ready. Amen? Not having to fix up anything, There's only one way to be relationship to Jesus Christ your sins. So I'm going to pray If you have never trusted you need to do it right now. Because you see, you don't have You may live tomorrow, and You can live eternity with the willing to ask Him to save you. And if you'll pray this prayer, your heart, God'll change your of moments. So let's pray right now. Father, we thank You for this of Your forgiveness, of Your Lord, I pray that every person this prayer sincerely Heavenly Father, I am a sinner. I have sinned against You, had it my way. I'm asking You to forgive me new beginning. I believe that You will accept I will be, but on the basis of of Jesus Christ at Calvary. He paid my sin-debt in full. I pray, Father, that each person would accept Your forgiveness And I thank You for it announcer: If you've been please visit us at...