Chances are that if you are doesn't just want to exist in this world You are someone who wants to live and be better than who If you want to fly high towards your goals to let go of the things holding you down and limiting your progress forward. If you don't let go of the thoughts from what you want, then You don't want to waste this one shot because death is not The greatest loss is what dies You must be bold and have courage to start I know that making changes in It is scary when things change, but it is even scarier In today's video, with you on how you can let go you and worry less Number one, allow yourself to outgrow The personal growth achieving more or becoming better. Sometimes it is also about understanding that the life you have built that perhaps you have arrived at a place what you once thought you did, as things are is beginning to outweigh Outgrowing your current life can feel hard to let go of things that are comfortable You are required whether that's switching careers, adapting to a new routine, you have just moved to Outgrowing to allow you to evolve Holding on to something that has become too small for from the transformation Number 2: Stop Overthinking. There is someone out there living the life because they took action and you didn't. Don't allow overthinking to hold you back. You must let go of perfection, comparison if you want to realize Deep down we all want to be understood, validated, and seen Growing up, I wanted that from my parents, I quickly realized, however, that not everyone is going to get you Here's some harsh truths for you. You don't need more time. You need fewer distractions. You don't need more resources. You need resourcefulness. You don't need the validation of others. You need to trust yourself more. You don't need the perfect moment. You just need to start. The fact is, you have everything So take a moment to reflect "What one thing have I been putting off, that if I were to action on all areas of my life?" overthinking and worrying Instead, embrace a bias towards action and get excited about what can go right. Number 3: Have Courage to Live a Life The first thing we need before The courage to do something, in your circle of friends The courage The courage to try. Because once we show ourself we can or we start building momentum, Confidence is knowing that we can do something, So for me, the courage came from believing and that was tough at the beginning, when you've just qualified as a coach and you don't have that experience, that you can add value to someone That was tough. And so when I started enrolling clients, I didn't charge very much because for me And so it was the courage to just say, into my services And if you enjoy it, it would be amazing I would then use that to feed what am I doing great, what am I not doing Now, as that experience started to build, of course So that's how it started. Was it was it began with courage. And then the confidence came even more courage to do things Number 4: Upgrade Your Beliefs you have old beliefs and stories about who you are that are stopping you from making progress towards Tell yourself that you're too old, too young, or that something is impossible before you have the courage Tell yourself that you love learning so you're going to explore and you start showing up with more energy, with a sense of childlike wonder In the words of Brian Herbert, "The capacity to learn is a gift. The ability to learn is a skill. The willingness to learn is a choice." So what are the beliefs And how might your life change if you were to choose Don't let the old beliefs and stories from a new future full of exciting Number 5: Everyone Has to Start Somewhere or are inspired by started somewhere. They were a beginner once and perhaps Most people let their egos They are afraid to look foolish, so To become a success story, however, you must be willing to look stupid for a period of time You must be willing to look bad Many of our deepest desires in life might feel impossible in the short term, Truth is, you will suck at most things Your first of anything But through the consistency of action, and that experience teaches you Number 6: Shift Your Perspective. Reality is perception, There is no one reality. There is only the customised reality This is because the way you interpret experience will be different And it is the meaning that determine This is why events themselves but your thinking about an event does. Moment to moment you are living And when you choose better thoughts, you harness the power to change, bend into something that works for you This is why Seneca says that we suffer more in imagination Perception is everything. For life is less about what happens to you and more about how you choose to respond Two people with the exact can have very different because of how they chose to interpret Here's an experiment From today, Pronoia is the opposite of paranoia from the perspective that life is always Number seven. Embrace the magic of the unknown. If you think about your life when you begin on a journey, you never get I mean, life would be boring the map and the path towards All you get given is the starting point. Well, okay, this is step one. But what happens is that when you commit for many of us, because we're filled But when you take that first step Now, when I talk about momentum, now you will know what that feels like There were moments when you felt like, Now, once you get that behind you, That map starts to open up, and then you can see what the next step And for me, that is the beautiful, beautiful is that you've got to take steps forward Number eight. Stretch yourself. If you live your entire life you will sacrifice opportunities and it will lead to a mountain of regret Life is meant to be fully lived. Every step forward you take and stumble you overcome, makes you stronger to becoming the incredible person In fact, in any given moment, to step forward into growth Which option Stepping forward into growth but it is an important choice to make if you want to change your life "The brave," Richard Branson says, "may but the cautious do not live at all." Don't be afraid And don't be afraid to focus on you and what you want out of life. Life is about surfing It is about truly living, Viktor to change a situation, we're You have been given What will you do with it some main character energy into your life Courage is the starting point So have courage today to let go of what and to live a life true to yourself And in the process of letting go, But you will find yourself. I hope you enjoyed this video Make sure to subscribe if you did,