(speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] The Chinese e-commerce giant, Alibaba, has big global plans. Ali, Ali - [Narrator] One major goal. Ali, Ali, Ali - [Narrator] To deliver goods from China to anywhere on the planet in 72 hours. (speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Amazon and Alibaba are both looking to capture a larger share of the global e-commerce market, which is expected to grow - It's all execution. It's who's faster on the ground, it's who's focused where. (tag beeping) - [Narrator] And fast is a big part of winning new customers. Alibaba's fast delivery service is already gaining and working with Western as it builds a shipping network Alibaba gave us a look at its in China as it plans to speed up deliveries around the world. (packaging rumbling) (speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Ping Tu in this warehouse run by Alibaba's logistics company Cainiao. He says robots here do all the heavy work. (speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] This process $75 billion worth of packages during the company's largest sales event in China last year called Singles' Day, which takes place over 11 days. E-commerce analysts say this was more than all of e-commerce Cyber Monday and Amazon's (upbeat music) But Alibaba isn't just It owns a vast empire and many of those parts help So when you buy a product Alibaba's payment company can process the transaction and then the shipping is handled here. This network allows Cainiao to quickly gather information including the price, and then send it directly to be cleared for export. Over the years, this from taking one month to clear a package to now only a few minutes. (voices murmuring) - Every year we set very aggressive experience improvement targets. - [Narrator] William Xiong is in charge of making sure your packages The company relies on a global network of 3,000 partner airlines, postal services and other delivery companies to handle the actual transport. This allows Alibaba to with new partners without having to build and maintain its own fleet. - We are running more than 80 and transfer centers in key markets, like Russia, France, Spain to allow very effective final deliveries. - [Narrator] That's a striking which says it has invested billions of dollars to build its own fleet that includes more than 40,000 trailers and 75 cargo planes. (upbeat music) Amazon is also making a but unlike Alibaba, its speedier service is only available in 21 countries where products can be But customers must pay that can be as low as about $13 or as much as about $130 a year. Right now, Alibaba delivers but only a few products arrive within 72 hours with no shipping fee. So as the company tries to gain traction, it says it plans to expand the service to a wider array of The company says this service will entice more people AliExpress looks very similar to Amazon and users can browse more But there's one thing you'll notice as you compare products. E-commerce analysts say they are generally cheaper on AliExpress and that's largely because to Chinese factories and merchants, cutting out the middleman. - AliExpress is connecting with Chinese manufacturers. That's an advantage Amazon doesn't have. - Jeffrey Towson runs that looks at tech and - AliExpress is effectively Alibaba at its most opportunistic. It's trying to do which is reach the rest - [Narrator] But e-commerce analysts say AliExpress' low-cost strategy has a risk. Counterfeit products. For years, consumer watchdogs, tech and luxury companies, have accused Alibaba's e-commerce website of selling fake products. Amazon has also faced accusations from the Trump administration for selling counterfeit goods from Chinese third-party - You get defrauded when but sometimes these things can kill you. - [Narrator] Alibaba with governments to address counterfeiting and using technologies and partnership with brands and other stakeholders to help identify and from its platforms. Amazon said it's reporting to law enforcement. To deliver any product both companies will have to tackle one of the most challenging issues for any delivery company. The last mile. E-commerce analysts say about 50% of the total cost of a delivery because that's been hard to automate and requires manpower. (packaging rustling) So Alibaba is testing a new (speaking in foreign language) (trolley rattling) - [Narrator] The company but instead of a mail carrier, they are self-driving robots. Alibaba says one delivery robot can carry 50 packages at once and can trim cost and time. (speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Amazon to transforming its So it's conducted trials of the journey, like testing drones that it says could deliver of an item being ordered. (dramatic music) The push to gain more traction in the global e-commerce market could push the two tech giants to improve their systems even more. And that could mean that gets to you even faster. (dramatic music)