Hurry up! Hurry up! Shoot! Go! Go! Go in. Go in. Congratulations. Congratulations. Go in. Welcome welcome welcome. Thanks, thanks. Go in, go in. Congratulations. Congratulations. Welcome welcome. Mayor Bai. Master Yang. All right, this way, please. I wish Mayor Bai many happy returns of the day. Thank you for your congratulations. Thank you for your congratulations. This way, please. This way, please. All right. Congratulations, Lord Bai. Captain Yang. Congratulations. Thank you for your congratulations. There will be a meeting of the Tongfeng Drama Club after dinner today. Lion Black and Nine-year Red are coming. They'll sing after a while. You have to enjoy it. You're a big face, Mayor Bai. Lion Black and Nine-year Red both come to support. It seems We won't come for nothing today. Sure. Who are Lion Black and Nine-year Red? You don't know that yet? Shizihei and Jiu yue hong They're the best for miles around here. Don't move. It itching. You move when I tell you not to. All right, then I won't move. Don't blink. No one can stand to keep their eyes open. Don't blink. Or the makeup will be messed up, how you sing? It doesn't matter. I tell you. As soon as I get out there and raise my voice. They have to cheer for me all the same, believe it or not? Applause loudly. Look at what you can do. All painted black Then you really are lion black. I am. Makeup. Bao Quan. Captain, you go first. Bao Quan I'm okay. What's the matter? Yeah, Can we get started? I've been waiting a long time. What's the matter? Zhan yuan, Let them sing, quickly. Where is Yang? What are you doing there? Have you finished your work? Go and take a look at what time open play, quickly. Okay, okay, hold on Don't worry. Don't worry, everybody. Everybody, sit down, the play will begin at once. It's nearly ready You two The people in front have urged several times You hurry up Alright All right, tell them we haven't finished our makeup yet What's the hurry. There are so many things in their family. Continue to make up. Ignore him. This... Liu, What's the matter? What's wrong with it? Liu, Anyway Today is a big day for the Bai family Don't be too much All right, Master, just a second Hurry up, hurry up, all of you just a second You first, This way, please. Hurry up, the audience waited anxiously Only the master can control you You want to control me, too? I tell you You have to marry me to control me. When you marry me, you can control me Know what? In a few days, I let my mom Come to your house to propose a marriage Then you'll have to take care of me Who thinks about that What's wrong? Not willing? Some people want to care about me. want to care about me OK Brother, When will we drink a wedding drink? This will be brother brother-in-law or sister turned into sister-in-law? Call it whatever you want. No one cares you Bao Quan Bao Quan Bao Quan, What's wrong with you? go quickly I must take you back Comrade, you are from the "Wu gong" team Old man, who are you? The Japs are after you The lad was so badly injured It was inconvenient to take it with him. Give him over to me But, old man I have lived here for several decades I know the place better than you. Go quickly. Give him over to me Please, old man Come on Where's the brother? Brother Don't stand up silly Send things up to the stage Tao zi, you say, When will the master let me take the stage At least I also learn "Er hua lian" Are you? I think you, Are not a serious person I have no face as long as you like me OK, Don't talk like that, hurriedly work All right. Hurry up Good, good. That's really good Yeah, it's different Star is the star. That's a good look "Go down the hill in disguise" Good, good. "Build the barracks near the depression" Dad, how is he singing? Is it looking good? Good, good. "I took advantage of the moon with no light" Sing very well Good, good. Did you see two people run over No, I didn't see. Report, he said no What's this? What's this? I don't know. Search! Report Nobody Say, old man Where did you hide the Eighth Route Army? Good, Since you want to be a Chinese hero I will help you Stop it Young man, what are you doing out there, run fast Take him away Go "It's so late" "Why hasn't Ling er's husband come back yet?" "I'll just keep decorating for him" Come on, drink "What mirror do you use to look at yourself in the morning" Lord, you see, she sings well Look, what a nice look this actor is Nine-year Red "The rouge on the mouth is the red of what flower" Good, good Why do you go? Back to the house I just applauded, Why so fussy? I'm gonna marry her sooner or later Let you become jealous There's a lot of people here. Don't be ashamed Sit down "She had powdered peach blossoms on her face" "The rouge on the mouth is apricot red" What's worth seeing? You Let her go Good, good Good "What a beauty girl, What a handsome boy" "what a nice curtain, what a nice bed" "What a nice pillow on the bed" "What a nice sheet on the bed" Good Good, good, good Reward, ten coins Thanks, thanks Thanks for Lord Bai, we'll get the rewards Thanks for Lord Bai Don't rush to thank him first I haven't heard enough yet Do another performance, "Go out in the early morning to explore" I reward 30 coins. It's enough, Master, how to sing it? Lord, you see him Good Six brother, a big thing! Your father was taken to the county by the Japanese What did you say? Say it again Your father was taken to the county by the Japanese Why did they take my father? I heard it was because of private communication with the Eighth Route Army Bad man Six brother, you can't go Leave me away Six brother, six brother Brother, where will you go Er hu, what's wrong with him Six brother's father was taken to the county by the Japanese He went to save his father Unfortunately, something went wrong Master Go Say or not? Say or not? Say or not? I tell you If you can, give me a quick death You say nothing Master, what are you doing here Brother, it's too dangerous. Let's go back. Go I can't. My dad's still in there I have to save my dad Brother, We need to figure something out first And then we can save him Yeah, listen to me. Let's go I have to save my dad, master You're scums. Scum! To wake him up I'm not gonna tell you If you can, give me a quick death It is said that the eighth Route Army loves people I want to see how deep your love is Japanese, How can you bully an old man If you were a man, you would come to me Come on, Come on Come on You look for death You say, a good person went out and pulled a load of things how he met this kind of thing He was caught away Aunt, don't worry first We are finding a way Everyone thinks about it It is not a anxious heart to solve the problem Tomorrow we'll go to the city to inquire What exactly is going on See if we can ask someone for help Brother, don't worry If there is really nothing to be done Let's go grab people tomorrow Your father is also mine. We can't watch our father suffer Brother, thank you Brother, how do you still tell me this I think Let's talk about tomorrow Come on Later, we should play it by ear We must not be reckless It's so miserable How to be hit like this so pathetic How can they get down? Are they still people? Be quiet! Villagers, then the Chief of the Japanese Command in Guan County will have a talk Applause and welcome Dog traitor Villagers, the troops of the Great Japanese Empire Thousands of miles to come to China The purpose is to build an East Asia Co-Prosperity Circle Call the comrades over Push you in front And you are too stupid Also help them to hide and escape You fought against the Great Japanese Empire There's no good end The two people above are examples They are at a heavy price You all hear the chief's words clearly Both the Eighth Route Army and the "Wu gong" team will be shot If you have a private communication with the Eighth Route Army Just as they end, do you know? Listen it clearly? Brother Come back What are you doing? My father is there. Brother Liu zi Who is he? Father Father Go quickly Father Liu zi Grab this one Father Tai-Jiong, this is his father He is his son He come to bury the dead for his father Neither the Eighth Route Army nor the "Wu gong" team He was just a performer of the opera a performer of the opera? Yes, Tai-Jiong How could he have such a good skill? Quickly Hurry up. This way. Quickly, Quickly Brother Come on, go Quickly Go quickly Everybody, let's retreat Hurry up Follow them up Don't run away Go fast, go fast Hurry up Go fast Hurry up Don't run away, catch them up, quickly Don't move Hurry up Shoot them Retreat Don't chase We're in the light, they're in the dark There must be an ambush inside Retreat Slow down, are you okay? Bro, You are so brave enough It's nothing There is no words can express my appreciation for your great help! If you need my help in the future Ask for me freely You're Lion Black! Yes I'm Wang cheng, this is Qu Mei I have heard that you perform opera well before Unexpectedly, you are also very strong in martial arts As well, join us, "Wu gong" team Yeah What? Are you belong to the "Wu gong" team? Yeah My father died just because of you guys You will give me justice back today You must give me an explanation Put down the gun What are you doing? Shut up! There's nothing to do with you. you You must give me an explanation. Hear that? Stop, Let it go Brother Wu zi, come on Comrade Wang Liu zi, Why did your father save "Wu gong" team? Because they risk their lives to fight Japanese for the common people You do so, Can your father die peacefully? I don't care about that Father, I must revenge for you You can die peacefully Fool, The imperial Japanese Army was secretly attacked by several people of the Eighth Route Army You are a stupid Sorry Be sure to catch the gang Otherwise, where is the face of the imperial Japanese Army Okay Go away Father, take this to spend Liu zi, people cannot be revived You don't have to think too much Master My father is 60 years old I must kill 60 Japanese enemies To revenge for my father Master, Uncle is already dead You cannot do stupid things If you encounter bad things What can Aunt do? Liu zi, listen to me Don't do stupid things Father, I must revenge for you The Japanese will surely come back in revenge Then we should strengthen our preparedness In case of attacked by them Report, captain, political commissar A large group of Japanese is coming up towards us Go, and stare closely at them right now Okay Captain, let's shoot them No, they are prepared this time We can't attack them hard Qu Mei, You first move the villagers elsewhere Shu Xin, Immediately lead everyone to drag the Japanese Get enough time to transfer for the villagers. Go Okay Be careful You too Captain How's it going? Villagers, the elderly and the children They resulted in a slow evacuation rate If the Japanese surround us, we will suffer losses Get all the grenades ready If you see the Japanese, throw grenades at them Okay Tai-jiong Captain Bai, are you sure that "Wu gong" team Is there? According on reliable information a few days ago, Their losses was not small They should be adjusting in this village Okay Then surround here I can't let everyone escape Do you understand Of course Get off of the car Hurry up Shoot them "Wu gong" team was really here Fried it up Shoot them, do your best Move Forward Move Forward Hurry up Captain, with increasing enemy fire, what should we do? Don't panic It's about time If we can't resist them You take comrades to retreat first Retreat quickly Okay Let's retreat, quickly Chase them Hurry up Don't move Shun zi, you take brothers retreat separately See you at the old place Okay Be careful. Let's go Go Chase them Okay Go forward Go forward Why are you here? It's you. You have to go quickly. Lion Black, You can't go there If we go, let's go together I don't need you to manage me Continue to go forward You go away or not? If you don't go away, I will go What bad attitude! Let's go Where are they? Where are they? It seems to be running away All right Retreat Slow down Put there The key is to decide a good date Then tell us Okay You don't have to send me away Okay Say hello to Boss Zhou instead of me Okay. No problem Brother, isn't that boss Zhou's clerk You put all these things back to their original place. Quickly All right Do we have Tangkou yet again Yeah Yeah It's good Brother, brother Liu zi, come on You both come over with me Liu zi, the sixth day of July is the Chengguan temple fair Boss Zhou of the county seat wrote a play You will go to the county seat tomorrow with boss Zhou of the theater Determine the play, price and number times Hold the money No, master, I still have the money Use it on the way, Take it Since the Master let you take it, you will take it I still have All right. Go away Master, we'll leave Brother, quickly, we'll go into the town Xing er, you don't have to send me away, I'll come back very soon Anything else? You are going to take good care of yourself alone. Okay Xing er, I'll go Bro... All right, wait till I get back Come and see Look at this, boss Apples How much are the apples and the oranges? Okay, don't buy, let's go Brother, let's buy some Go go go Brother, you see This should be the place Who are you looking for, Is Boss Zhou there? Who are you? We are from "Tongfeng" drama club This is Six Master, Come in with me, please Boss Zhou has been waiting for you for a long time okay Please go inside Let's go, brother In two days, we will go there to perform Please prepare, okay? Okay Brother, you see, this place is pretty big Boss Zhou, people of "Tongfeng" drama club came Boss Zhou Boss Zhou, I've long been looking forward to meeting you. Only two of you? Why didn't your master come here? My master had something at home So let's come here About the performance bother you much We are so familiar Still follow the old rules The play has not been decided yet You go back first After two days, they decided, I entrusted someone to take it to the troupe. No, Boss Zhou, it is so My master was afraid of the performance time We are humiliating So he want to get the performance list in advance To make us rehearse it again and again Okay, okay So You will wait here for a while I'll go to discuss it with the owner. This thing bothers you Thank you Zhou san, make a good pot of tea for guests Okay Sit down, please Thanks Brother this place is pretty big come and see Sell vegetables Thousands of gods in the sky Not like me, a demigod Wang on the earth Symbols used to predict good and bad things. Using one can Eliminate disasters and avoid disasters Sir, Can you figure out my marriage events Of course As long as you believe it Please tell me fortune Shake it You have a good life and good fortune, girl It's a top sign But, about your marriage I guess you have to wait another year Why? Say specifically It means you have to wait another year And then, the person you like will appear naturally Then, your marriage is done You are cheating Believe it or not, it depends on you How much? Life-telling is my profession Not like you, Just to seek wealth Go away, let it away Let it away, let it away Go away, quickly, let it all go away Brother, there is a bird Hello, hello It can say Say "hello, Five master". Say "hello, Five master" Hello, Five master. Hello, Five master Brother, it's calling me Say "hello, Six master". Hello, Six master. Hello, Six master Hello, Six master Brother, it's calling you. You call me once again Call "peach", call "peach" Quickly So crazy What to see. Pull your eyes out. Wu zi Come on One day I will teach you to sing the opera. I'll teach you You tease it for what? I think we can't stay like this all the way Yeah Brother, or we can walk around to the county seat. Come back again in a while Okay, let's go Go, brother Brother, I'm hungry You have had a long time waiting for it I said I had guests waiting for me at home They still take me out to have a drink The performance list was identified when we drank look &lt; The White Snake Biography&gt; Boss Zhou, thank you If you do not require anything Then we will leave first You haven't eaten yet? I invite you to have something at the opposite restaurant. Not required, Boss Zhou, another day My master is still waiting for this at home All right, best wishes for your master Okay, we'll come back Brother, Boss Zhou invited us, why didn't we eat? if someone invites you to a meal and you accept his hospitality, you will find it difficult to say anything against him. Do you understand? Okay, are you hungry? Let's have some drink Brother Waiter, come on Come in, please Come over and order me some food What do you want to eat? Order ... How about it? Eat eat eat Brother, come on Waiter, come on We want half kilo of beef A plate of peanuts, and a fish And a chicken All right Just two bowls of noodles Okay Brother, it's not easy to go to town You should take me to have some delicious food Wu zi, I must take you to another day You always say that You always deceive me Brother, drink tea Hurry up. Here! What about it? One more time? Come on. Cheers Your dishes Hurry up Sorry for a long wait Have a good meal Brother, why do you eat so slowly? Wu zi I have something, you go back first I'll go back soon after I finish it Brother, you take me together I haven't played enough yet I won't mess trouble You're enough Oh Eat quickly, and then take this back It's not easy to go to town Before I have enough food, you let me go back You hold the money Buy something you want, okay? I'll go, brother, You have to come back early. Be careful Come on, Tai-jiong Come on, Tai-jiong, cheers Okay, come on