(waves crashing) (gentle instrumental music) - 45 Years ago, on a sultry, summer something remarkable happened. From the direction of the an intense and continuous bounced off a 30 meter tall, flat reflector tilted towards the sky. It then bounced off another funneling it towards one that received and amplified the signal. Within the nearby control room, there were no scientists or like in a Hollywood film. Instead within that dark and lonely space, the only sound was out and IBM 1130 computer, diligently worrying and The computer printout fell into the tray, folding into the way to But upon that page, the irrefutable evidence of the radio signal had been immortalized. Sometime later, a technician dropped off the printouts at the home of volunteer, Jerry Ehman who had agreed to look through them for anything interesting. scouring through the pages, Ehman would carefully scan with his red pen. Most of the time, the numbers were small images representing the signal-to-noise ratio the detectors received. Numbers greater than nine, had to be represented as letters for 10, B for 11 and so on. And so when Ehman stumbled he realized that he was looking at the highest signal-to-noise Instinctively, he circled the sequence and wrote the now historic scribble, Wow. That happened in 1977 and that have passed since, the Wow signal remains the for an alien radio transmission I've long been fascinated like an irresistible itch. I've often found myself in quiet moments, wondering what was it? Who sent it? And what else could be out there? Radio signals are detected to such an extent that of astronomy dedicated to But the Wow signal found by out as being incredibly exciting because of four observational facts. Number one, it's high signal-to-noise; Two, it's particular frequency, three, it's narrow band signature, and four, it's apparently For fact one, the high signal-to-noise is crucial because it removes any doubt of random statistical fluctuation. The peak intensity of the Wow than the ambient background. So that means that the probability doing this was one intent That's an astronomically tiny number. The bigger observatory could and never expect to see Yet more the moments just before and after the peak also show exceptionally So there's no way that we as some kind of statistical fluke. For fact two, the signal frequency was to the famous frequency of 1420MHz, also known as the hydrogen line. This is a special to be a likely wavelength to attempt to communicate with us because of two major reasons. First, the cosmos is naturally quietest at this part of the spectrum. So there's less noise to And second, the hydrogen line corresponds by the most basic electronic transition within this simplest atom in the universe. Anyone in the cosmos who should know about this special frequency. And so it serves as a Schelling point, a rallying point in frequency space. Now, it should be noted that the frequency actually wasn't quite exactly but instead was 50 kilohertz above it. However, this slight with a variation expected due to the Doppler shift of a transmitter that is moving towards the Earth at a modest speed of order which is a fairly typical For fact, number three, we turned to the narrow band but how do we know this? While the Big Ear Observatory each one with a bandwidth of 10kHz. The Wow signal was only channel number two of which means that its power is limited to within a 10kHz window or So given the frequency of 1420Mhz, that means that the bandwidth is less than seven parts per Now in nature, we simply don't know of any For example, the Crab as a natural narrow band radio source, but there, the spectral Even if we turn to the and mysterious fast radio bursts, you still only get down to one part in 20. The truth is that short of we really don't know how could ever be produced. Of the four facts, this is perhaps the most important. Finally, turning to fact four, this signal appeared to be that it was observed for. Now, when you actually turn the numbers and letters into a graph, you not a flat continuous line. But here's the thing because of the Earth's rotation, the observatory is sweeping Meaning that, in fact, the bell like curve is for a continuous source. Fact number four is important because most satellites where they would pass through than the 72 seconds that For example, the International Space Station would pass through the Wow field So you'd only get one single high digit, not the persistent sequence These four properties what you'd expect from and likely a very high powered one. Now, it has to be said that a cannot be excluded, but they would need to be on a wide orbit beyond the geosynchronous orbital altitude to yield a sufficiently slow speed, which was rather unusual in 1977. Yet more that signal will be utilizing a protected frequency, since the hydrogen line to be a protected channel. Spy satellites also don't because after all radio astronomers across the world are that wavelength. So it really wouldn't be very Emission from a comet has and made the news a few years back, but it has largely been since they do not emit strongly nor were the cited comets, even in the beam at the correct time. So in summary, we have these four observational facts that together look quite promising for the validity of the Wow signal. But on either hand, we also have four holes in our and ultimately lead the door open to skepticism about the Wow signal. So let's go through these four. Number one, we don't know if the signal Two, we don't know Three, the signal was in one horn. And four, we've never Points one and two are of the observatory's limitations. The detect was not sensitive enough to detect AM or FM modulation. So there could very well have the Wow signal that we just never saw. Obviously, if we had it would've removed any from an artificial transmitter. Point two, the unknown location surprises many. Surely a telescope knows what Well, Big Ear has two big issues here. First, each horn spans a about one by 20 arc minutes on the sky. Second, we don't actually know which horn detected this that was never recorded. Albert Caballero recently showing here the large region of space where the source could have come from. There's thousands of stars in here, but Caballero tries to narrow this down to 60 near sun-like stars But frankly, we have no idea whether the source was or even from a star at all. Point three is a weird one. The two detect horns actually of the sky, but their physical separation means that they see that patch Now, because we actually don't know which of the two horns detected Wow, that means there are In scenario A, the first horn detected the from the Wow field, but the signal then switched between the horns. Or in scenario B, the signal was not but then it switched between the two horns. Either way, though, it seems rather fortuitous to be looking at the right moment to catch the switch over, unless Wow is just constantly And then to top it all off, which is perhaps the most frustrating part of this whole story, because despite many efforts there have been no of that signal. With just one detection, but not definitive. So where does that leave us? Well, definitive proof that the signal was indeed astrophysical and not some terrestrial demands a repeat detection. But on the other hand, a lack of repetition also does that it was spurious either. So we are left in no man's land. Or are we? As subscribers of our my approach to science often takes a rigorous to such problems. And so one might ask, could the absence of any recurrence of that Wow signal be used to exclude it as an astrophysical source and then just move on with our lives? And so this is where our where we take a deep statistical and aim to squeeze that Many of you will know that before on this channel in There, I discussed a different where I developed an (indistinct) model for dealing with one-off events. The model works very well when with constant settings, but Wow has been pursued now from many different observatory. Yet more in that video, we saw how the unknown causes a real headache and different assumptions about its likelihood of And so after that last I wanted to go back and to fix these issues and I wanted to know, I needed to know, could the Wow signal still be even after all of those no results? Whilst making that video, I started corresponding with Robert Gray, who literally wrote the perhaps more than anyone with a feverish curiosity, interviewing the team and of the observatory. He even set up a 12 foot radio to continuously monitor Wow from home. Remarkably, even though he was he was awarded telescope time on the very large array in New The first amateur astronomer So after the video was posted, we continued to correspond and started working on So what is new here? What is the big idea? The basic premise of our approach is to create a responsive emulator and indeed the other observatories that observed the Wow field. Back in 1985, Gray had who operated the Big Ear, and managed to reconstruct the exact dates of each and at a Wow field. Even though Wow was only seen once, Big Ear actually observed spanning August, 1977 to March, 1984. However, only 90 of these were due to various issues at the site. We also know that Big Ear has where two horns pass over the same patch of the sky each day, separated by three minutes and each one observing So equipped with this information, can now simulate a from the Wow field? And ask in how many of would we expect to detect it? Now, this is where the fund begins, because with that emulator, we can change the properties of our hypothetical alien transmissions and see how would it that Big Ear would get. So for example, if the signal once every hour and stayed on for about 10 minutes, then we would expect about 30 detections. However, if the signal repeats say, once every millennia, instead, then we would get zero detections. In this way, we have a Big Ear sandbox, if you will, where we can play God with and see what Big Ear Now, there's a certain because apart from the alien signal is periodicity and duration, it also has some arbitrary start time, which we simply randomize So for any given alien signal, we actually generate thousands of it and then average So the real point of all of this is that we can now ask the question, what kind of alien radio such that it matches the for the Wow signal. In other words, out of 180 attempts, how do we get just one success? Now, to make progress though, we have to choose between one In case one, a repeat like clockwork on a regular constant schedule. So for example, this could be an alien transmitter that resides on a rotating exoplanet or in case two, it repeats randomly. Perhaps this might be from an advanced civilization towards the Earth. Perhaps even it could that deliberately follows Since it turns out this would of a signal being missed with a fixed rotation rate like the Earth. Now, some of you might hold on, What about if the Wow not repeating at all, but actually technically a one-off event is still a repeating event just where the repeat And so mathematically, we don't have to change anything here. It is fully encoded within our framework. The first case of a periodic extensively already, The summary of this is that is completely excluded. And even beyond that looks very unlikely. So if we assume that alien well, there's really not much chance of Wow being what we In this vein, The best way to save Wow is to assume that it's not periodic, but rather it follows but even randomness can be If we assume the average number of pings per unit time is unchanging, then that means that the events must follow the well known What this essentially says is that yes, the events are being random generator, but the properties of are themselves not changing in time. So now the Wow signal is characterized by just two parameters. The duration of the and the average rate of let's call that Lambda. Equipped with our Big Ear emulator and our random signal generator, we are now finally ready to figure out what are the properties of the Wow signal. To do this, we essentially create a dense T values on the X axis, and Lambda values up on the Y axis, and ask in each one of these simulations, how often do we get a Wow like signal? In other words, just one You can see here, the color coded map that we recover, where the white region there In that region, the peak almost a 1/3. So that means that the fact from the years of Big Ear observations is actually not that weird. It's a one in three outcome. If the Wow signal has a T This is why statistics is so important because let's compare or, in fact, the intuition of Jerry Ehman, who remember was the person back in 1977. In a 1994 interview, Jerry said, &quot;We should have seen it again when we looked for it 50 times.&quot; But here, we find that it's actually that Big Ear never saw it again, even after 90 observing days. So long as a Wow signal But hold on, so far we've Big Ear observatory data, but remember in the years that have pursued the field and Surely, if we add in this extra data, it will finally kill the Wow signal. Well, using our emulator, we can easily fold in this additional data and see what we get. Of the various follow up Three, really dominate. And we'll focus on those here. In 1994, Robert Gray used the 26 meter Harvard for a total of eight hours on target. Then in 2002, gray was added again, but now using the University of Tasmania's on target for 84 hours in total. And finally, in 2020 and used the Allen Telescope Array to collect more than So that means there's of accumulated observations And all of this new data than the original Big Ear observatory did. So look, I get it. It's easy to see why a would just shoot down any proposition to keep going at this point. But critically is that a Using our emulator, this triage of new observations definitely reduces the overall probability of a random Wow signal matching all of the existing observations. Whereas before our peak about a third, the best Now slide down to a probability of 1.8%. So about one in 50. Now one in but it's also hardly implausible. It corresponds to 2.4 Sigma But in science, we would only normally if across the three Sigma threshold. So that means that we would to 0.3% to finally reject Wow. In our paper, we can use the ator to actually is necessary to get to that point. And the answer, around 1500 hours of would be necessary or 62 days of accumulated observations; that might seem daunting, but it could be achieved in a single year with aggressive scheduling. And the payoff would be a Either, we see, Wow, repeat a frankly Earth shattering result, or we see nothing and can finally exclude it to highest statistical probability. Now, one thing I haven't revealed yet are what are the most likely I've told you those most a one in 50 chance of occurring, but what are the associated duration T, and mean repeat rate, Lambda, that correspond to that Coupling at emulator to we can constrain that the is between 2 minutes and And as for the mean repeat rate, that comes in between about to 12 times per month, Very slow repeat times, those less than once per year are strongly disfavored as they almost always lead rather than the one Wow So in conclusion, Wow, is It may be a real, repeating signal, a scenario with a probability of 1 in 50, or it may be bogus after all. Something that we could conclusively state if we collected just two Here, we've tried to push the but there's only so much we can model. Perhaps our assumption that the mean repeat rate Maybe someone is behind the who has substantially over the last 45 years. Who knows why, but it's not impossible. In science though, we try to proceed with this that's justified by the data, a philosophy that hearkens And in this case with a single data, I don't think we can easily in the absence of additional data, but even so our analysis Wow could be still out or for you to go to the telescope and hear it again. To close, I wanna share Robert Gray was the co-author with me on this new research paper, but during the writing up of this work, he tragically passed away I didn't know Robert personally, but professionally, he with whom my interactions were with enthusiasm for the Wow signal. And that's clear from his who trained himself to become on the Wow signal. I strongly recommend This is &quot;The Elusive Wow&quot; by Robert Gray. It is the definitive book on the topic and a great read. Look, despite the tragedy I personally have some solace that this final project led to the result that of Wow recurring, not a and maybe a Nerf that someone out there, perhaps watching this right and one day resolve the Wow mystery. I'm glad that I got to So, until next time, stay (gentle guitar music) - Why care about life elsewhere? That's a good question. Life here is riot of different environments, behaviors. And I think that people in whether something like And the only way to settle is to go look. (ethereal electronic music)