The sun sets over Manama, Like every weekend, thousands of young Saudis They come here looking for this In the trendy Adliya district, and nightclubs where alcohol The city has been the place for more than 30 years This is thanks to this gigantic bridge which connects This bridge, the Saudis are crossing it The Bahrainis have since renamed it The island is home to 8 million Among the fashionable places, the the Mahonia. The owner of the place is called Sawsan. He is a figure of the Bahraini nightlife. - This is my home, this is a place for that they enjoy and feel good. Sawsan has 3 others but this one is the most exclusive. Only 7 tables which cannot accommodate - This is the kind of restaurant where When I opened mine I said incredible in Bahrain, This evening she invited a young who runs a restaurant To surprise your guests, made from an Asian citrus fruit - Here are the two ingredients It's the fruit of the tree Julien had never He is surprised by the special atmosphere - Surprising, I didn't expect that. It's a place with no We, from an outside perspective, Yesterday we went drinking where people party, it could very well Exceptional cuisine, prestigious clients. This evening, Julien receives one Little increase in stress for Julien. This is Prince Khalifa - Nice to meet you. - Thank you for being here. - It's a pleasure. Every time we talk about gastronomy, the first reference, I often come to France. In the room, men but also women, Alcohol is on the menu, but it Julien has concocted a 10-course menu. It looks amazing. A gamble a priori successful for the young chef, whose creations are immediately But to attract rich Saudis, Sawsan doesn't just invite chefs She also opened a box on the roof of the restaurant. We follow Saif, the master delighted with his experience in Bahrain. - We call it little Ibiza. It's Thursday, the weekend begins. There are over 300 people here. It's the most upscale place. Here, 80% of the customers Girls in sexy outfits. Alcohol, dancing, flirting. In Bahrain, the time of a escape the rigor of It is the smallest state in the Gulf Located between Saudi Arabia Bahrain is an island of An island renowned for its tolerance rather surprising in Women have officially They can vote and And if Islam is the state religion, is authorized there. A first Christian basilica It is also in Bahrain that one of the Abraham is 61 years old. He decided to reopen the old closed for over 75 years. - This is the first office since 1947. But behind this idyllic picture The majority population is ruled with an iron fist A Sunni close to Saudi Arabia, for over 200 years. During the Arab Spring in 2011, peaceful Shiite protests causing more than 50 deaths. And today all the main - He always fought for He was arrested in December 2014 and Since 1932, oil exploitation and even allowed some But today, reserves are running out. So the Kingdom launched into real estate. An incredible construction program Real estate developer, Mohamed - It's an incredible feeling and to have this extraordinary view A modernity that is not appreciated Mohamed is one of the most And at 30, he fights to preserve - We were born like that. We don't like modern things At the heart of geopolitical tensions immersion in the kingdom that 20 minutes from downtown Manama. Saar, one of the residential districts Behind these high walls, An oasis of tranquility. A Californian style house This is where he lives with his family Heir to a family that the business manager collects and she doesn't hesitate sometimes - What's written? - When I'm nice, I'm great. When I'm not wise, A provocative credo which well sums up the who knew how to impose himself in a universe which His favorite piece is - This room is my relaxation space. And most of these books One of my favorite chefs, I loved his dishes, I have a lot of respect Fan of France and its gastronomy, a little more reserved about the French. - They complain about everything I don't like it, it's too hot. It's too cold, it's raining. But I still like working with them. Sawsan has been married for over 30 years. - This is my husband. Jalal. - How did you meet each-other ? My father had a furniture store. She came in one day I told myself this is the woman I'm going to The couple has 2 children. Abdullah, 31, and a 32-year-old daughter. Everyone lives under the same roof. - My son lives at the bottom of the garden. And my daughter lives upstairs. We're all in the same house. - Yes, they will not leave - I want them to get married, but I don't think they'll want to. - If we can, we will buy the land - Put a small window through which According to them, Bahrain is a victim of Like that day when they invited They invited him and his wife to come because she was afraid. - But afraid of what? - Fear of what the media says But when he came with his son... - He said: &quot;You are all the time Proud of his country, Jalal - Are tattoos traditional here? The couple has around ten cats. But to protect their property, their 2 mastiffs, which climb They each have an assigned trainer, every morning, they chain together The couple's cars are in the image, A Porsche 911 and - I love Bentleys. It's very easy My husband gave it to me. After 33 years of marriage. The couple manages together but also a cleaning company In all, 150 employees, She takes care of relationships - It's the love of my life. - Yes, you work with - She's the boss, the real boss. - Do you all live together? - You will leave the house - Yes. I'm free, but I'd like when At Sawsan, we don't joke Every evening, its employees prepare and for passing friends. Sawsan embodies the wealthy elite But its success is also revealing of On the streets of Bahrain, most But the veil is not obligatory, Here, women have the right to but also to vote or Since 2002, the new officially recognizes gender equality. But behind this facade there is a Bahrain which escapes Western influences. Desert makes up 92% of the kingdom. The temperatures there are close And yet, this is the ground This is where he trains his falcons. He devoted his whole life to it, and - You don't have time for a woman? First, it's family, But hawks are in my blood. Of modest origin, Mohamed has today become one A profession that he practices with his family. Every day, in winter, he joins in Here falconry is a passion To transport these birds of prey Mohamed fitted out this van. Some of these So he pampers them. Mohamed owns 90 competition falcons. They are real athletes, For this, he uses to which he hangs a pigeon carcass. The plane flies at 70 kilometers per hour. Normally, its top speed The peregrine falcon is the animal After only a few minutes of flight, - It's a good time to give it to him. As a reward for his efforts, the falcon The training will last 2 hours. For his next competitions, Baroude. - It's like my pet This one is new. I bought it a month ago, He is very strong. In 5 days will open in Bahrain, who will unite the falcons Mohamed hopes to appear there Like many Gulf countries, Bahrain built its wealth But today, reserves are running out. The country must find new Like Dubai, a frenzy Every year, dozens of In fifteen years, the population Going from 900,000 inhabitants in Among the main promoters At its head, Mohammed Al Kooheji, After obtaining an engineering degree and followed management studies The secret of his success? Build huge towers - We are looking for projects Yesterday we started with We will have building permits and if all goes well, in 6 weeks, Construction and delivery times of this scale like the Onyx Tower. 200 meters high, 45 floors, 700 luxury apartments, all already sold. But Mohamed wanted On the 43rd level, a 300 meter2 penthouse The price ? Almost 2 million euros. - It's an incredible feeling To have this extraordinary view it inspires me a lot The particularity of this building is just opposite the capital. Bahrain was inspired set off on a forced march Everywhere, the earth wins One of the greatest achievements Here is Doura al Bahein and its 15 islands very inspired by the islands In all 1,200 villas. Ultra-secure residences on which the rich come to rest every and the hustle and bustle of Manama nights. In 30 years, the country has increased Every month, new Today is the inauguration containing 850 apartments Staff are under pressure because came to celebrate the event. Proof that the situation of the real estate market, On the program, visit to a show apartment. - Look, we can see the new airport from here. For this apartment of 100 count EUR180,000. With breathtaking sea views. It's about 2 to 3 times Bahrain thus hopes to attract The minister is also taking advantage of our - You speak French ? The laws in Bahrain are really favorable The country is open to You are welcome here. If you are French, and you will own it completely. The minister knows that he must because Bahrain is still far away Today, after oil, who is at the origin of the This morning, Nabil Nooruddeen a 1982 Lamborghini Countach. - I drive this car without shoes. A little gem at EUR500,000 that Nabil - It's stressful, you know, visibility is not very good, which does not go unnoticed, there is when I drive it and it scares me. to see what is happening. I grew up idealizing this and I always Nabil is the heir to a rich dynasty. - We're heading towards Barren Bay now. He grew his fortune thanks to And over the years, he this unique collection of sports cars. 57 more prestigious vehicles Porsches. Lamborghinis, and Ferraris. Lots of Ferraris. Like this limited series Monza SP2 of which His latest fad is sports cars which became the property - It's a special car from McLaren. I was able to personalize it It is also the only It's a 3 seater car, For me, this car is You can drive it to the Middle East, You no longer have to worry about There are only about a hundred in the world. Value 4 million euros. And to maintain these cars, - I can't bear to come in here and it annoys me. Illustrate the cars with a little Nabil's collection is today One of the surprising aspects is its policy of tolerance in this region of the world. In Manama, there are 19 churches from Anglicans to Orthodox, churches intended for mostly came The country also has the first A gigantic building built and which can accommodate more than 2,300 faithful. The basilica was inaugurated by the king's second son It is estimated that there are currently But the most surprising it is the peaceful relationship that maintains Check out these images shot in 2016. We see members of the government on the holiday of Hanukkah, the Jewish Christmas. These images caused a scandal But what few people know, installed for centuries in Bahrain, We are in the souk, the market Abraham knows the souk like the back of his hand. - This is the best place. It's here It's called Ziggurat. When I was a child, I have nostalgia for that time. We call it an anti-stress rosary. It's fantastic for impatience it is also a religious object. Abraham Nanny is Jewish. and he has always lived there. He is the descendant of family Today he is preparing Here, in the heart of the souk. The old synagogue will reopen after Heidi, Abraham's wife and his sister Yael, put the last touches - Our community is really very small. While in 1935 there was Only after creation that the Jews decided to leave, And for good reason, Bahrainis For Abraham, this day - This is the first office since 1947. Even if he is not a rabbi. Abraham will ensure Min'ha, In the room, the faithful are counted but everyone knows that they A small revolution linked to an event In 2020, the Abraham Accords. Under the aegis of the president Israel, Bahrain and signed a peace treaty, of cooperation between In the souk, next to the synagogue, decided to open a souvenir shop who would come to Bahrain. Objects that combine Jewish symbols - The yarmulkes are really very nice. It's the first time that The Jewish community feels revived - I have always been very Now we can claim it People are finally realizing that Jews like everywhere else, A few days later, a first He's a businessman. Passing through He was able to come thanks to the brand new - We start with our property deed, It was signed in 1930. - I live in Israel. Being able to come here to Arab lands this is a first step that there may have been in the past. It's an incredible experience to be there, To mark the occasion, the businessman came up with his kippah of course, but also and on the forehead to mark his The day before, the businessman played - I felt like I was being transported This is how we learn to create It was truly a remarkable experience. But if Jews benefit from a it is not the same for another In Bahrain, they have their The Shiites are the current of Islam to Sunni Islam represented great ally of Bahrain. They represent between The power, however, is between represented by King Hamad al Khalifa. The Shiites form the most and many functions During the Arab Spring in 2011, thousands of Shiites have to demand more democracy. The demonstrations were peaceful, The always ally, Saudi Arabia, No way for her to let him The repression made The main Shiite leaders have Among them, Sheikh who headed the principal Arrested by the authorities, His wife agreed to speak to us, but And in this curious setting, - He was arrested in December 2014 and He takes revenge on him, because and its political demands. He led peaceful actions for their rights, their duties. He opposed any discrimination The couple has 2 children, - We pay a high price, but we endure. His absence, this separation We want our homeland to become where the people can enjoy Other activists have chosen exile. It was in London that Seyyed He obtained political exile, This morning he is organizing a conference He created an NGO to defend - Our problem is with They are the ones who put people in prison. It is who tortures and who sentences to death. All these people should not We are here to say that we will not let He was stripped of his nationality We showed him pictures - There is a policy of Shiites are citizens of They are discriminated against for work, and in many other aspects of their lives. One of the best illustrations it's the poverty of certain neighborhoods, They live in disastrous conditions. While in the same place, in Bahrain, And that's all about it Sayyed thinks that the monarchy cannot - The government responded to our by bloody repression, by torture. This is the strategy of fear. But that won't last forever. In Bahrain, the roots of and represent a threat to Even among Sunnis, Bahrain does not always have a good reputation. For fundamentalist Muslims the kingdom is seen as a place of perdition. This policy of tolerance is at issue - We come from Eastern Saudi Arabia. It takes 1 hour to come All Saudis love to come here just With these 25 degrees in the evening, the temperature but in reality, what the Saudis it's parties and alcohol In Manama, there are around twenty like here El Chapo, allusion to one of the Or even Escobar, the manager of the place, Leo, a 32-year-old Greek who works - This is the main area In these 2 streets, it is authorized So here is the area Every weekend, his club is full. - Why are you refusing this client? - Because the bar is full. Onne and all tables are reserved. All the so there are a lot of people at the beginning Inside, music and international DJs. And at the bar all the alcohols on the menu for Saudi men and women came Leo has also planned activities like this fire-eater in a sexy outfit. Rania chose to settle in Bahrain. She is Slovak and French-speaking. - I have lived in 7 different countries, I feel very good here. - Many Saudis come here? - Yes, it's a big part of For Leo, the VIP square is the place Here, tables charge a fee. To be able to sit down, you have to commit - Can we stay on this table? For a table of 5 people, customers - We will have to pay the same thing - If you want to stay here, it's EUR1000. Young Saudis do in Bahrain less than 30 kilometers from here. And many are not Few people agree to talk to us. - I come from Saudi Arabia. - Is he filming me for my family? - Why am I here tonight? Do you see how my friend is going? and he doesn't want his family That's the only reason why They want to let go, without their family In Bahrain, it's not just the Saudis There are also Kuwaitis, Emiratis, but also expatriates - Where are you from ? - Do you live here? -And why are you coming here this evening? - To drink a few Bahrain is known to be less There are more parties For several years, the Saudi power it is Bahrain which benefits. - They just want to have fun spend their money and enjoy it. In the end you just wanna do That's what they're looking for. They are not In Manama, clubs close at 2 a.m. But for those who would like there is another way In a remote street, an anonymous facade, It's a liquor store. There are 4 in the city. But even here in Bahrain, So we shoot with a discreet camera. Inside, we find everything from but also strong alcohols. Apart from nightclubs and hotels, these are the only places - We would like French wine. To be able to buy alcohol, and be dressed in Western style. - As long as you don't drink because otherwise the police will arrest you. - What do people buy the most? - Saudis love it They are not interested in wine. On the shelves, the bottle It's four times its price in France. The government of Bahrain has indeed According to a World Bank study, this is the country where alcohol 40 kilometers from the A huge air-conditioned tent. Inside, a hundred falcons and the biggest competition of the year, the one who will designate the raptor A consecration for its owner. The breeders come The event is broadcast by And it is commented live by For Mohamed, it is the day of truth. - I have 2 hawks who are in the final. so, we hope to make a In the room, in the front rows, a - It's part of our culture. It's a It's very traditional we really try to transmit so they can At lunch, all the guests - What is this ? A camel roast in - Fat is the best part of You can eat as much as you want. An all-you-can-eat buffet where people mingle Here, we are very far We were born like that. - Modern things, I prefer things What is old is worth gold. It's 3 p.m., for Mohammed, Mohammed has just been called His falcon is about to come on the trail. A chip is attached behind It makes it possible to identify each Each raptor must travel 400 an assistant shakes a pigeon carcass. It's Mohammed's turn The falcon flies close and travels the distance But Mohamed did not - It went well ? Mohamed's falcon, with achieved the best time of the day. But it's still too much It's the turn of one of the favorites of the event, The result is displayed on Mohamed and his falcon Baroude who wins Mohamed will be congratulated in the manner Nose to nose. - What are you proud of? - First, For all princes Second, for my family. and all the inhabitants Mohamed will leave with a brand new 4x4. But above all supreme consecration, for this defender of values he is one of the princes who hands him the Saif in person