Okay, so we are getting winked and. We play E4, and of course, we play our favorite Aleppan Sicilian. Let's see how the Aleppan holds up at a very high level, at a 2 ,000 plus level, Knight F6. As I said, at this level, we're essentially exclusively facing the two main responses to the Aleppine. The first of which is D5. We face that move a lot. We haven't faced Knight F6 as much. So this is a great opportunity for us to review some of the theory of this line and for me to show some new, exciting analysis. So after Knight D5, we already kind of need to get into the weeds because there are essentially two. fundamentally different ways of playing the Aleppan. The first is the more traditional approach, which is to play D4. this position. This is what you might have seen. Then Black plays pawn takes d4. And notice that in that resulting position, White doesn't have to recapture on d4 because d takes c3 is not a threat. The queen x -rays the knight. So the main line is d4, pawn takes d4, and then actually knight f3 is a very important inclusion. But recently, Aleppine experts have embarked on a fundamentally different approach, a more exciting approach that leads to far more tactical positions. Rather than playing d4, It is worth starting with the move Knight F3. In many cases, this transposes to the main line, generally Black plays Knight c6. then you might think that white has to play d4 black plays pawn takes pawn And we have ourselves the main line of the Allopan, but... After Knight c6, there is a second approach, and this is the approach I'd like to introduce you to in this game, assuming that our opponent plays Knight c6, which is not a given. Black can also play d6. Black can also play e6. And those are the three main moves. Knight c6 is on the board. Does anybody know what move I'm implying? This may seem. Okay, depending on how you look at this move, it may seem very natural, but upon closer examination, this move may seem. to be a serious positional mistake. I'm talking, of course, about Bishop to C4. We bring our Bishop out straight away. We hit the Knight on D5. and we're essentially forcing the knight to move back to b6 or black can also support the knight with e6 which is a very popular move. I don't think it's a very good line for black. I am really hoping to see e6. I think those positions are really, really fun to play for white. But so are the main lines after an ITP6. In which case, we drop our bishop back to b3. Why did I say that this may seem like a serious? positional mistake. Well, we're actually encouraging black to play a very scary looking move here. Our opponent didn't play it, and that's the move c4. And C4 is scary because if we then play D4 at any later point, Black can en passant and break up our pawn chain. So it may seem like we're going to end up losing our E5 pawn. And I'll show you some of the theory after C4 based on the new. Svidler Chasuble course, as well as the Kalofman Bible. And those lines are incredibly fascinating. What you will see. is that we often end up sacrificing the e5 pawn. And we go for rapid fire play on the queen side and in the center. And I think this line has breathed a lot of new life into the Allopan. So... Some exciting stuff coming up after this game, but D5 is the traditional main line. This is how people used to play this exclusively. Uh, you know. 15, 20 years ago. And here we need to not miss the opportunity to take on Passant. If we don't take on Passant, Black gets like an ideal setup. by bringing their bishop out to G4. So without question, we need to take Ampersand and keep the diagonal for this bishop open. And now, we need to quickly develop our pieces. You may. be attracted to the possibility of the immediate D4. but we're not really aiming to play a quick D4. That's not the point of this particular line. The point of this line is to quickly develop your pieces and actually go after the B6 knight. And you might say, oh, after the b6 knight, how on earth is that possible? Well, there is a very important idea and by carrying it out, you're lighting the fire on the queen side. But first, first things first, we need to get our king out of the center. And you need to realize that Bishop g4 is an incredibly common blunder in this position. It walks right into the common tactic. Bishop takes f7 check. I've won. countless games like that, even against other GMs. And after Kxf7, it's the classic Ng5 check, we pick up the bishop with interest. Bb6 is the main line. And this is where things get really interesting. Traditionally, the main line has always been Night A3. And if you've watched the Aleppine speedrun videos to date, you will know that Night A3 is a very. Classic developing move because the Knight aims directly for B5. So that's what people used to play all the time. And then recently, a new idea has taken the Aleppine by storm. Here's what it involves. First of all, we trade bishops on e6, and we do that in order to buy ourselves a couple of tempi. What does that mean? Well, we're making it difficult for Black to develop his king side, right? Black would love to play E6 on the next move, but. He can, he's got to move the queen away, and that costs black a temp, or black has to fianchetto the bishop, but that's two more tempi. And we use these tempi to develop... Rapid play on the queen side who can tell me what idea I've been implying for a while now It's not D4, D4 is again, the traditional way to play. We go after Black's knight on b6 with the move a4. An idea that you should be familiar with. because it's universally applied in many different types of positions. We're shoving this pawn down to A5. You might look at this and say, well, I don't get how this is dangerous, right? The move a5 is just a one move thread and the knight has plenty of retreating squares. Hopefully. The course of the game will reveal why A5 is actually a dangerous idea, and it's not because the knight on B6 is somehow in trouble. It's because we're trying to push this pawn all the way up to a6 and create long -term weaknesses. for black on the queen side. In particular, some of the light squares are gonna become weak. And believe it or not, the pawn on a seven. is going to become a long -term weakness once it is fixed in place. by our pawn on a6 of course if black plays a5 here which is a legitimate move then the knight on b6 loses its defender. Black creates a gaping weakness on B5, which we can immediately occupy with our knight. And at the right moment, we will play d4 and blast open the center, and there might be hell to pay for Black if he makes too many weaknesses on the queen side. Yeah, of course, Rookie 1 is a move that... Most of you are gonna be tempted to play, but remember the sort of philosophy behind this line. It's actually a good thing that the queen is on e6. It's making it difficult for black to get the king side pieces out. So, Rook e1 would actually help Black by forcing the Queen back to d7. We don't want to play Rook e1. unless there's a compelling reason to do so. Very instructive point, by the way, right? You can see how, at this level, these tempting -looking moves are actually often bad. Queen d7, so our opponent is abiding by the sort of clear strategy of kingside development. That means we have no time to waste. We need to continue our queenside campaign with a5. And this is still theory. Queen d7 is, I believe, the main line. And don't worry, we are going to play d4. We're just waiting for the perfect opportunity to do that. Nighty -five. So we need to complete the picture on the queen side, what we do not want to allow. is we don't want to allow black to play a6 themselves. because then our pawn on a5 becomes a very serious liability. It's a liability because, well, because the knight on c6 aims at the pawn and we don't want black to freeze the queen side before we've done our job. We want to freeze the queen side on our terms. on our terms, which means we want to throw in the move A6. And as I've explained, we're trying to induce the move B6. And it may not seem like the weak light squares on the queen side are accessible because we don't have a light squared bishop anymore. That bishop got traded for its counterpart on E6, but there's a piece called a queen and queens also move diagonally. So the queen is going to be ultimately the vehicle that we're going to use to try to exploit the queen side light square weaknesses. I'm anticipating the move B6. If Black doesn't play B6, then we will take on B7 and shatter Black's entire queenside. If Black plays Bxa6, the same thing applies, and... Black merely invites our Rook onto a super active square. B6 is played. now again we need to be very accurate because if we fall asleep then black is going to play e6 and bishop e7 and these squares look very nice but we we actually need to develop the machinery in order to exploit them. In particular, we need to combine positional play on the queen side with a general approach. that involves making it as difficult as possible for Black to develop his bishop. Right, we want. black to remain frozen in place on the king side because it's going to make it difficult for black to protect some of these weak squares and the weak a7 pawn on the queen side. This means that it's the perfect opportunity for us to strike in the center with the move d4. And this might be the last opportunity that we're going to get. So we need to jump on the opportunity train. before it's left the station, D4. Opening up the center, and not forcing Black to take on d4, Black I guess can also play the move e6 here. We'll cross that bridge if we get there. But the point, and hopefully you're. starting to form a clearer picture of what it is we're trying to accomplish here. If black takes on d4, which is what most people will play, then we take back with the knight. And if black takes, we take back with our queen. what is our queen on d4 going to be doing well first of all it's in the center it's supported by a c3 pawn but most importantly, it's aiming at the G7 pawn, so it would have made it very hard for Black to bring his bishop out of F8. E6 is on the board. I'm impressed with the way that our opponent has handled the opening. Let me think about this for a second. I don't remember what the theoretical move is here, I have to think about this. So I think it might be night a three. I think it might be night a three, but I'm not totally sure. So. I need a moment to think here. It's, I mean, C4, C4 is a very tempting move. But the problem with C4 is that it opens up new prospects for Black's Knight. It allows Knight D to B4, so I really don't like C4. Our pawn chain in the center falls apart. Hey, Hannah. Okay, there's also 95. Oh, it is 95. I think the move is actually 95 here. I suddenly remembered. that I'm pretty sure the move is 95. And 95 is a hard move to explain. So assuming I have this right, I'm gonna wait until after the game to kind of fully flesh out. motivation behind 95. Long story short, we're inviting a night trade. And we're changing the nature of the pawn structure, right? Once the pawn repositions to E5, the pawn structure changes completely from a potential IQP structure. to a structure that arises in various Allopan lines with that pawn lording over black's position from E5. And you should sort of understand why the pawn on e5 is so powerful, because it's controlling two very important squares, f6 and d6. Black would love to bring the dark -squared bishop to f6, ultimately. and black would love to have the f6 square for the night in the event that white plays c4 for example So, after the trade of knights, the d -file opens, and white... being the more active side with better placed pawns and more space. is more well -positioned to exploit the opening up of the D -file. There's also a very important idea without which... this approach wouldn't really work, which is that. After the trade on E5, which has just happened, I'm assuming our opponent will play Bishop E7. Who can tell me? and having knowledge of typical Allopin ideas really helps, what's a very typical way to meet Bishop E7 in these types of positions? This should be largely automatic for you, this type of move. It's Queen g4, it's Queen d1 to g4. I know it's funny that we haven't brought our minor pieces out. This is ultimate modern chess. Black can't punish us for that because our king is very, very safe. Queen g4 is super, super strong because after black castles, we can bring our bishop out to h6. And that is the crux of why e5 is so strong. Bishop f6 in that resulting position would not have been possible, so black loses the exchange. But. All of that is a moot point because Black delays the move Bb7 and instead plays Rd8. Let's think about what our priorities are in this position. So. First of all, we should not forget about the long -term weakness of the A7 pawn and the best way that we have to exploit that. is ultimately to get the knight around to b5 what would the knight on b5 be doing well obviously it would be pressuring the a7 pawn and keeping black's queen at bay So one idea is to immediately play the move knight to a3 and develop our knight. Also. The knight could potentially access the d6 square. I understand that there's a bishop here, but maybe the circumstances will change. There are other candidate moves. There's the move Bishop g5, which I don't like because it invites a Bishop trade, and I think our Dark Squared Bishop is a very important asset here, which could drop, pay a visit to H6, such as in the line that we were just talking about. So between those two developing moves, I like Knight a3, but there's a third type of move that we could play. We could preemptively move our Queen either to f3 or even immediately to g4 in order to make it as difficult as possible for Black to bring his Bishop out to e7. Queen g4 would walk into the rather annoying move h5 And if you drop the queen back to G3, Black can keep shoving the pawn down the board with H4. So I'm not... Convinced that that favors white So from that perspective, I like to move Knight a3. But I like both of these moves, 9a3 and Qg4 both have their pluses and minuses. Let me think about this for a second. Which of these do we want to choose? I think. I think we should play Knight A3. It just seems... To me? that Knight a3 is the more flexible approach to the position because we don't know exactly where this Queen is going to belong. We can always play Queen g4. Nobody's gonna be taking that move away from us. So let's start by bringing the knight onto a square where it is ready at a moment's notice. to drop into B5. And we want that ability because should the Black Queen move away from the 7th rank? then Night B5 is a potentially devastating move, right? If Black loses A7. Even if it's the middle game, that pawn on a6 is going to decide the game. And that's, by the way, why we're leaving the Rook on a1. That may seem like a lame rook, but oftentimes you want to leave it there. for the occasion in which you take on A7 and then you want that pawn to be supported. So yeah, so many of you are suggesting the move B5 here. Yo, B5? it stops us from playing Night B5, but it also adds... further strain to the queen side, right? Because then the knight is automatically pressuring the b5 pawn, leaving the queen rather passive. In response to that move, I like the look of queen g4. Okay, bishop e7. Virtually forces our hand other than Queen g4 we could still play Queen f3 But if we're bringing the Queen out now We might as well use it to induce some weaknesses on the king side Queen g4 is an automatic move And you can see that we're starting to squeeze Black, right? Castles, Bishop, H6, loses the exchange. And if we can force black to introduce. king -side weaknesses. Then Black will have weaknesses on both sides of the board. And we're going to keep overextending black by trying to get the knight to be five and in response to g6 bishop h6 Is a classic reaction that prevents black from castling. We've got a big initiative here. Now things that we need to be careful about, obviously the E5 pawn has been left without a defender. and we need to keep an eye on it. We of course need to keep an eye on our A6 pawn. Watch out for moves like knight back to c7 and stuff like that. And other than that, our position is very easy to play. We also should not get fixated on the prospect of Knight b5 because in some situations if the dark squared bishops are traded. As I pointed out earlier, knight c4, knight d6 might be a more worthwhile maneuver for the knight. Another concept to keep in mind is the move C4. C4 is a move that we could play on demand. And the point of C4 would be not only to chase the knight away from D5, but to open up the possibility of knight to B5. Of course, after C4, the knight's going to drop back to C7. That's what we have to be very careful about, because then A6 is hanging. And. We can't really go Knight b5 because black has two eyes on that square. So notice how, on our opponent's turn, I'm talking about more general ideas. This is the sort of classic. Russian School of Chess recommendation. I think Alexander Kotov. who wrote How to Think Like a Grandmaster, one of the sort of seminal texts of the 20th century. He advocated for this approach where You use your turn to calculate concrete variations, and when your opponent is taking a while to think, you're essentially developing. conceptual wisdom about the position you're. shuffling through typical ideas, you're making mental notes to yourself, like this is what I need to be careful about, this is what I need to look for. And in that way... you're using every second effectively because. On your opponent's turn, there's a lot of uncertainty and your opponent has a lot of options. So. unless you are fully anticipating a certain response. It actually makes sense to abide by that advice, I think. unless you feel like. there's a lot to calculate, and you really need to use every second to calculate a certain variation. or you're in time pressure. In that case, it's all calculation. Okay, Bishop f8, back. Ooh, that is a juicy move. That is a clear sign that our opponent is in full backpedal mode. Now. Well, okay, how are we going to get to Black's position? First thing's first, there's a crazy tactical sequence that... I'm trying to puzzle out the move, Rook d1. comes to my mind immediately as a way to pin the queen and to threaten c4. Bye. If you look carefully at the move Rook d1. Black could then drop the knight back to f6. And if we take the knight, then our rooks are not coordinated, so queen takes d1 as checkmate. But if we look further after Rd1 Nf6, RxQ, NxQ. Our back rank is weak, so we can't take on A7, but what we can do is trade rooks on D8. Finally, our knight gets into B5 and the game is over because black loses A7 as a result. So, Rook D1. Looks very, very juicy. It does in fact threaten the move C4, not because C4 wins the night, it doesn't. but because it forces the aforementioned. transition to a winning endgame. Okay, I need to think about this a little bit more because Bishop g5 is the second candidate move. I like Bishop g5 just as much I like Bishop g5 just as much. I don't really see the downside of Bishop to g5. I guess the only thing we'd have to be careful about is f6. And as weakening as the move F6 is, it buys Black a tempo, and I'm not sure. that I want to part ways with even a single tempo. I also don't want to part ways with the e5 pawn. And Bishop g5 f6 essentially encourages us to give that pawn away. I don't like that as much because the pawn is what's exerting the kind of vice -like grip on black's position. as crazy as it sounds, I'm actually going to not play the tempo move. which I think a lot of you would kind of play automatically, right, Bishop g5. partially also because I want to maintain contact with the G7 pawn. And I want to make sure the black is not getting that bishop out anytime soon. Oh, it's weird, but Bishop g5 is not going anywhere. You can really play this move now. And now I think it would be. even better idea because f6 is no longer as dangerous of a response and the reason why let's say we play bishop g5 which we will Black will play F6, we play E takes F6, G takes F6, we have a check on H5 and the chief difference is that Black cannot block that check. on F7 with the Queen. Right, because by shifting the queen to c6, black has lost contact with the f7 square. Does that make sense? So now the look of Bishop g5 or Bishop g5 looks a lot more attractive to me than it did on the previous move If bishop e7, then of course we take the bishop. I think. Or we play C4. which is a move that. has been, you know, that we've kept in mind for a long time. I think C4 might win the game. after Bishop E7. Now, could I have played c4 here? Absolutely, I could have played c4 here, but the knight would have dropped back to c7. We would have traded rooks, and then we would have delivered a check on g5, and then we would have brought the other rook to d1, and actually, probably that would be, that would have been an even better idea. Somehow I didn't pay attention to. the power of C4. Yeah, C4 might've just ended the game, but. Maybe not, maybe it would have allowed the knight to... sort of defend some of these key light squares. I don't know. Bishop g5 is is I'm sure going to be good enough to win the game. Yeah, C4 would have been very, very explosive, but so is this move. And we can play c4 on the next move. It's not going anywhere. C4 is not going anywhere at all. But yeah, I'm a little bit bummed I didn't play it. right away. But anyways, our opponent is down to six and a half minutes. You can just sense how much pressure black is under. Because all three sides of the board, the queen side, the center, and the king side belong to us. We're in charge. on all three sides, and when that is the case, you can essentially rest assured that you're probably going to win the game unless you do something really dumb. What is actually the point of Bishop g5? Well, largely it's to coordinate the rooks. And why is it important to coordinate the rooks? Because after we play C4, we want to be able to trade rooks and then bring the other rook to D1 immediately in order to grab control of that open D file. But all of that's a moot point because F6 has been played and this fundamentally. changes the character of the struggle from positional to now completely tactical. Now don't give a check on H5 prematurely because that walks into G6 and we lose a piece. At this point, we need to transform our advantage. The e5 pawn has been the pride of our position for so long, but now we transform our advantage from. that pawn being on e5 to the black king being in mortal danger. So you have to be ready and willing. a moment's notice to give away something that you're proud of and something that you're hanging your hat on. if you can understand. that you're transitioning the character of the advantage from one thing to another, from positional to tactical, from. domination over squares to a direct attack against the king, which is the case here. is that hopefully that. concept makes sense. And the higher rated you are, the more flexible you have to be in terms of. changing your advantage from one thing to another. Okay, now, what was the critical move? that wasn't as good with the Queen being on D7. It was a check on H5. We forced the Black King out into the open. And I made this move without any calculation because there's no risk. There's zero risk attached. the move queen h5 check we know for a fact that it's not going to make our position any worse and so i made it largely without calculation, even though maybe just Bishop h4 would have been just as good if not better because now it occurs to me that the f6 pawn is well protected and after Bishop h4 we have to reckon with Knight f4 which I completely missed. But I don't think it's an issue. So let me think about this for a second, the move C4. Remove C4 even here. is very interesting. Because after the trade on G5, the King has to drop back to E8. And then we don't even have to take the knight immediately, we could even... Pay a visit to the B5 square with our knight. That looks really juicy. We could also play Bishop h4, but then there is this move, Knight f4, and it's a little bit troublesome. I will confess that was a very careless moment by me. So maybe, C4. is not such a bad idea after all. C4 f takes g5 Queen takes g5 King e8 Okay, then maybe we play knight to b5. Let me, I'm just trying to make sense of that resulting position. and to really understand if it's totally winning or if it's more complicated than it seems. I think it's totally winning. My intuition is screaming to play the move C4, and I'll flesh this out more after the game. but I just have a feeling that now's the time to play c4. Again, bishop h4, I was worried about knight to f4. And there are some tactics there with Bishop takes f6 check. King takes f6 and then Queen h4 check. The problem is that black has a mate threat on g2. which doesn't allow us to pick up the rook on d8, so. I'll show this all after the game. Right now we're low on time, so we need to focus on the matter at hand. So I'm fully expecting FG. Okay, now. It's important to be tactically disciplined. We start by playing queen takes g5 check, and knight f6 is a blunder. And this is. Or is it? Whoa, whoa, whoa, maybe it's not a blunder. Oh my god, does he have Rook g8? Oh my gosh, I think I blundered. That is insane. Man. Okay, well I have to take. I still think White might be winning here though. Oh my gosh, he's got Rook g8 in this position. That is un -frickin' -believable, but... I think. but the position remains very complicated even after. we lose our queen, which is what is going to happen. I feel like our opponent missed Rook takes D8. and now gets lucky with Rook G8. We have to sack our queen. because if we move our queen, we get checkmated on G2. How do we get the most amount of material for our queen? We might very well lose this game now. We play queen takes G8. Leading to a fascinating position, two rooks. for a queen and a bishop, which is generally a decisive material advantage for the side of the queen. But the one caveat here. is the presence of this pawn on a6 which is what we started everything with we have to go after this pawn asap which means we need to play rook b8 and get this rook over to the seventh rank and take on a7 try to move the rook and basically we're praying at this point i'm totally praying a black will not be able to whip up chances against our king in the time that I take to win this pawn and move the rook back and push our A point. What's really helping White here... is the fact that Black's minor pieces are in terrible shape. And it's gonna take like a solid two or three tempi until Black actually gets those pieces moving again. And I feel like. We might have just enough time to orchestrate counterplay. I think Wyatt is lost here. Objectively, I'll be totally honest. and I completely overlooked Rook G8. I completely overlooked your G8. but we got to bounce back and recover. Now things are very interesting. This is definitely the closest I've been barring. The games that I've played cheaters, this guy's obviously legit. This is the closest that we are to losing a speedrun game. Obviously, eventually, I'll lose a speedrun game. I cannot win a thousand out of a thousand games, but this might not be the one because I really feel like practically, we have great chance. There we go. All right, the pressure is so immense. Our opponent's nervous. And immediately he blunders the bishop and this should do it. I really played that up, and then the moment I said all those things, the bishop is blundered right away. Now, I'm actually fascinated by the computer evaluation here. I'm curious if White's actually better in this position. Yeah, White's not worse. So it's equal with an only move. No, White is winning. I'm gonna check this on Stockfish15. I'm going to check this on Stockfish15. According to the Stockfish on Chess .com, White is still winning here. Let's check the actual eval. And that's actually what we're going to start with. And then we're going to dial it back from there. Well, it's because of Rigby 7. It's because of Rook b7 and Rook takes a7, that pawn. ultimately wins us the game, which is so. Funny, because that's what we started with. We started by getting the pawn to a6 in the hopes that eventually. our investment would be rewarded, and so it was. And so it was. Okay, so let me paste this game into Chessbase. And I'm going to run Stockfish 15, my computer's going to protest. All right, here we go. So the evaluation after Rogue B8 is. It is completely winning for white it's plus five It is plus five for white in this position. Queen to a4 is the only chance for black getting the queen behind the pawn. Now white plays rook b7 check. Kf6 and Rxa7. After. Black gets the night out? I mean, Black. just has no other way to get the minor pieces out. We simply play Rook a8. attacking the bishop, and if the bishop moves... You play Ace, oh, and this is beautiful. This is beautiful, and after Kf7, there's one more hurdle that White has to cross. See, the problem is, you can't move the rook away because you give up a7, but you can't move the knight because you blunder the rook with checkmate. But there is a very pretty idea that allows White to circumvent these problems. Who can spot the decisive tactics here? It's pretty simple. It's knight to c2. You sack the knight. then you calmly move the Rook to B8. Black tries to generate counterplay, but not fast enough. We could even just move the Rook away. We're not even rushing to promote. Promoting also works. But so does Rick F1. Whatever, Bishop b5, we promote on the next move, and we reach a technically winning position, or white is up. obviously a full exchange. So just incredible illustration of the power of passed pawns and the importance of active pieces. the importance of active pieces. So it turns out. If we rewind a little bit. I'm curious if C4 was actually the top engine move. It was. C4 was the best move and it was based on a blunder. but I just got incredibly lucky. C4 is the best move. The only move that wins clearly. Fg queen g5 knight f6 rook d8. Yep Take steaks and... Rook b8 and white is winning. Wow. Okay, so. With that in mind. I got incredibly lucky. It's like that joke about GMs throwing the pieces up and it lands on the right square. That's kind of what this reminds me of. crazy crazy let's go back to the start because there's a lot of theory to unpack this is the opening theory speed run and the hope is that by watching these games you will essentially be able to play the alapan just on the basis of the speed run so knight f6 e5 knight d5 i'm not going to delve too deeply into the theory of the traditional main line which is d4 cd knight f3 this is in fact what the alapan bible recommends that's squeezing the sicilian by khalaf one and Solovyov, they recommend the traditional main line, Cd, d6, Bc4, and here the traditional main line goes Nb6, Bb5. You might be familiar with this line. Sorry, d5 is a move, but De and Bd7 is the main line. This has been very well known for decades now. It's an IQP, structure -isolated queen pawn. White has the bishop pair, but black essentially has control of the square in front of the pawn. These two factors largely counterbalance each other. So the position is equal, but if black opts for The most popular move, which is Bishop b7, then black is slightly worse after Queen g4. See, it's the same idea applied in a different position. Black castles here, generally white takes on c6. Black takes with the pawn most of the time, Bishop h6, Bishop f6, and Rook f to d1. And there's hundreds and hundreds of games from this position. White aims for e4 with the knight. But recently, a couple of new moves have been introduced. In particular, the move Rook d8 is the choice of a lot of top GMs, and it basically takes this line out of commission. Unfortunately, Rook d8 completely equalizes because it puts a lot of pressure on this pawn right away. White castles here most of the time. But ultimately, after e6, you're gonna have to protect this pawn with this very passive move. Then Black plays Bishop e7. And if you play Queen g4 now, well, here Black can castle, and you've already wasted a tempo on one developing move. Bishop h6 will make a lot less sense. So long story short, the traditional main line is good to know, but I think there's a lot more meat on the bone in the new Knight f3 and immediate Bishop c4 line. So after Knight b6, Bishop to b3, there's a fork in the road. There's two moves that. are much more popular than the rest. Of course, d6 is going to transpose after pawn takes d6. The first move is what our opponent played. The second move is the immediate C4. Followed by queen to c7 immediately trying to exploit the weakness of the e5 pawn This is why c4 is such a scary -looking move, because if you say, well, no problem, let me just defend e5, no, black's going to en passant it, and you're going to end up losing the center pawn. But the crazy thing is that the new way of approaching this position is just to sacrifice the pawn, just to give it away. You castle here. Black takes on e5, and this position, believe it or not, is much better for White. And as far as I remember, I'm going to double check this, yeah, so the move here is actually again a4, and a4 looks laughably innocuous here, and you might say, well, let's say that Black grabs control of the center with d5, already White is almost winning. You throw in the move rook e1, right, now's the time. Let's say Black brings the queen back to d6. Now you play the move knight to a3. So you're threatening to jump into b5 with tempo, so let's say Black plays the obvious a6. Now we blast open the center with d3. And after the trade, the biggest problem for Black is his lack of development. Black just has a very, very hard time getting the bishop out of f8, and if he doesn't get the bishop out of f8, then the king is not tucked away to where it needs to go. So if Black plays g6, then White wins with the move queen to d4, attacking the rook. Black has to play this move, and this is already completely winning for White, a5, forces the knight back, and now there's a beautiful move exploiting the x -ray against White's king. There's this move. If black takes, then he drops the queen. because you can't recapture. If the queen moves, then the knight maneuvers back to e3. This is plus five because black can't defend the d5 pawn. e6 doesn't help, white takes anyway, and black's position collapses. So g6 is too slow. What about e6? Turns out e6 doesn't solve black's problems either in this position, although it's better than g6. Here, white calmly develops the bishop to e3. It seems like Black is already knocking on the door. But the secondary problem, this is why we've built the Bishop -Queen battery. Black can't castle, still, because of the checkmate on H7. And this is an unsolvable problem because it's not like Black can play G6. And if Black plays an ugly move such as f6, again, White strikes with a5, brings the rook into the center, and just look at Black's position. Total and utter paralysis, and again, Black can never castle. And if E5, then no problem. Drop the bishop back and D5 is now incredibly tender. This is plus two. So, this position after a4 is ridiculously dangerous for black and understanding this fully is important if you want to play this line successfully. So what other sample lines could I show? Well, what about the move A5? What if Black just says, okay, I get it. I don't want to allow you to push your pawn to A5. Well, now the B5 square is incredibly weak. You already know how to exploit that. The move is Knight A3, or you can start with Rook e1, it doesn't matter. let's say black plays e6 that's the only feasible move the knight immediately gets to b5 And if black develops the bishop, again it's the same technique, we play d3. And the point of d3 is not only to open up the center, it's also to prevent black from castling. Notice that if black castles immediately. White can play D .C. And after knight takes c4, white, of course, has... Queen d3, which is winning. Also winning is to start with a rookie one. And if Qc5, then White just tosses Black around. And of course, Ba3 ends the game. Bb3, Black's position is in complete and total shambles. According to the engine, Bb4 is the best move, apparently. With the idea of setting up Ba3, you're waiting for Black to go d5, and now you play Ba3. The reason is that Ba3 immediately, Black can drop the queen over to g5, and he's still kicking. So you set up with Bb4. You're threatening bishop to e3. because you're taking away the c6 square from black's queen right bishop e3 immediately black is still holding on with queen c6 it should be four is just classic computer chess And Black is totally busted. that doesn't work either giving up the b5 square is suicidal which means nobody's going to play a5 here But if you don't play A5, we already looked at D5. There's also E6. There's also E6. but largely the tenor of the position remains. unchanged. You can start with Rookie 1. I think this is actually the main line, and this is the lesser evil for Black, but again, you play the move d3, again, by opening up the center, you're making it virtually impossible for Black to complete their development. According to the engine, white is much better, Bb7, and again, Na3. And if black plays a6... Then you push A5. you centralize the knight, and you get this massive clamp on black's position, which overcompensates for the sacrificed pawn, something like d6. You could play queen d4. encouraging Black to castle, but now the bishop comes into the center. And you've just have. complete and total domination over all three sides of the board, which is the theme of this game. So if black plays. Knight back to F6, then we stick the Knight right in Black's grill. Then we can move our bishop back, and this sort of resembles a Smith -Mora type compensation, where you just have domination in terms of your piece placement, and black just doesn't have any way to untangle. Something like this is, I think, the main line, and everywhere white is objectively and practically much better. And so this is what makes this line so exciting. It's basically busted knight takes e5. and it basically tells us that queen c7 which traditionally was considered the line that everybody used to play white played queen e2 automatically this was what people played and then a couple years ago castles became all the rage and it virtually refutes the line with c4 unless black plays d6 which is a whole different line this is something i won't talk about as much right now just in the interest of time Here, it's a very similar idea. You trade and castle, and you quickly play a4 and try to run this pawn up the board. I'll leave the analysis of this position to our next Aleppan game. For now, let's address d5, because there's a lot to talk about here as well. Castles, black can play c4 here and transpose into the position that we just had. Instead, our opponent goes for the main line, bishop b6. So here again, after the trade, 10 -15 years ago, everybody used to play d4. This was considered mandatory. And this line was analyzed to exhaustion. You get this trade on d4. And black has actually, I think, several ways to equalize. The simplest is, of course, to play rook d8. And there are some crazy lines here. This is very, very theoretical. The queen gets into e2. But engines have completely exhausted this line. And black is fine here. According to the engines, black is fine. Black is equal. So the move a4 has breathed so much new life into this Aleppan variation. And our opponent continues correctly with Queen d7. We push A5, we shove this pawn all the way down to A6. Again, B6 is largely forced. And now we push D4. So here there is, again, a fork in the road. c takes d4 is the most common move and after knight takes d4 if black nonchalantly trades then black is already worse because it's almost impossible to get the bishop out of f8 okay and you might say well what about a move like knight f6 trying to trade queens well white is happily going to trade queens here why because of the weakness of the a7 pawn now the knight has a ready -made pathway to b5 and if black tries to prevent the knight from reaching b5 it's going to move on to c4 and now it's threatening knight e5 check black's king is actually in mortal danger here if king to d5 the knight drops back into the center Yeah. yeah let's say this move and now rook d1 and after e6 the knight moves right back to c4 and again 95 is virtually unstoppable so it's the combination of black's lack of kingside development coupled with the weakness of the pawn on a7 that makes this end game really really bad for black And if black plays e6... Well, now White's not in a hurry, and we can work on our development either with Knight a3 or with the move, Rook d1, again, the Bishop can't come out, and Black doesn't have any easy ways to solve that problem, okay? Hopefully this makes sense. So our opponent plays a good move, e6 is considered, I think, the best that Black can do, although maybe the more accurate move order is to take first and then play e6. This actually might be the way that Black wants to play this. The downside of playing it like this is that White gets now an additional resource. Who can tell me what additional resource White gets in this position that we didn't have here? Here we have, of course, the move, knight e5, but in this version, White has a sort of equivalently annoying move. What am I talking about? It's Night B5, it's the move Night B5, which is kind of a major theme. of this entire game is trying to get this knight and ensconce it onto B5. and This Knight is pressuring A7. The theory goes on here. You might have to check this with the engine yourself. I don't want to get too bogged down in the details here. probably already boring you as it is, but I'm pretty sure that night be five. is considered to be a small advantage. For white and so our opponent's choice to not allow that is understandable, but this is incredibly Unpleasant for black from a practical standpoint this position is I think, I don't want to say unplayable, but it's, I think it's really, really bad. So our opponent plays Rook d8. and we work on our development with Knight a3. A lot of you were concerned about the appearance of the move b5, and remember, this Knight is completely chilling. It's got tremendous potential energy, and on demand, any time that we feel like we want to involve this Knight more directly in the game, who can tell me how we can force this Knight, how we can break through the shrubbery on the queen side, if we want to? We don't have to do that now, but on demand, we can play the move c4, and the Knight is feeling amazing on c4. It's chilling. It's threatening, potentially, to jump into d6, and again, any time Black plays bishop e7, we respond with queen g4. And before you know it, black is completely and utterly paralyzed in a way like this, okay? So. b5 is not scary but we don't even have to play c4 we could still play the move queen g4 and keep C4 in our back pocket for a rainy day. B4 is not dangerous. In fact, it merely encourages the knight to get to C4. And if black tries C4, well then black weakens the D4 square and the knight can take another route. to get to this very nice outpost in the center. Okay, so don't be afraid of moves that stop your ideas because oftentimes they create further weaknesses in your opponent's camp. Also understand that, yes, the knight's on the rim. And yes, it might not be controlling any squares right now, but it's causing tremendous strain. on Black's position. And that was the narrative of this entire game. Bishop e7 I think is a serious mistake according to the engine Knight to c7 was the only way to preserve a feasible position, but even here. I think that white is significantly better after queen g4. And here the sacrifice is justified because our pieces get into the game so quickly. Watch this Bishop G5. If bishop e7 Then we could even take and whoop! Quinn A4. Four King, the Knight and the King. And if King takes e7, then Rook d1 is winning. And if black moves the Rook. Well then, Rook FD1, I think, is game over. Our knight comes in, the A file is open. The A6 pawn is amazing, right? It's such a strong pawn because if it's captured, then the A file opens, and that's in our favor. If it's not captured, then we capture the pawn on A7, and the pawn promotes. That's why there's so much hype. around this move, a4. Okay? So, Bishop e7, Queen g4, here our opponent kind of panics. I think King f8 would have been the best defensive resource here for black, again. castles bishop h6 illustrates the power of this pawn bishop f6 is the move black wants to play but can't so black has to drop the exchange the other move that black would like to play is g6 but it allows us to stick the bishop right in black's grill and prevent black from castling kingside also very bad. So I understand why. Our opponent played Bishop f8, but this just undevelops his pieces. And now I think black is just lost. Plus it encourages us to play Bishop g5 with tempo. So I think King f8 is what I would have played with black. And we would have probably responded with Rook to d1. And now we're threatening to play C4. According to. The computer black is supposed to play b5 here. which to which we respond with C4 and it's like plus one. We just have domination on all sides of the board, this is good stuff. So in any case. Bishop f8, rook d1. and the tactical subtlety that I had to foresee. is that Knight f6 is a. Nice looking move because it forces the Queen trade, but this is where The power of the pawn on a6 is fully revealed. Actually, we don't even need to rush with this move. We could first bring the bishop out to f4 to protect d5. That's such a patient move. And you might say, but doesn't this give Black a chance to rush the King over to B8? Well, yeah, but Rd1 ends the game because this is a mate threat. After Bishop b7, we got Rook d7, Rook d8, and Rook b7 is made into beautiful otherwise by the way the rooks would have been forced off the board. if we didn't have this operation. Yeah. Symmetrically, Knight takes a seven. So it's a nice mixture of positional and tactical ideas in this game. Queen c6 is what our opponent did. Now we bring our bishop into the game. It turns out that f6 hastens black demise, but in response to rook c8, we would have definitely played the move c4 and gotten the knight to b5 and you can figure this out yourself. This is completely and totally winning. I think the simplest plan. in a position like this is just a double Rooks on the D file, which you can do even after H5. Although this is unnecessary, you could just move your queen to the side. Black has no moves. Black is completely and utterly paralyzed. And even if he takes on A6, we've now transitioned our attention to the D file. And Rook d8 is totally unstoppable, Bishop e7. Oh, we grab, we grab, and Quinn F6 is gonna be made. These lines are pretty one -sided. What's up, Wangt? My opponent in the chat. Yeah, he says, I hated the A6 pawn the second it arrived there. No, that pawn is the bane of your existence. So F6 is understandable. and great job finding that Rook G8 resource. It's basically pure luck. Turns out the C4 is the best move. And the reason I didn't drop the bishop back is because of Knight f4. And I was very tempted by this move. And this position looks winning for white, but it's actually winning for black after king f5. Because Black is threatening mate and G4 check, the King tucks away on G6, and here White can simply resign. because of the threat of checkmate. So you have to be careful until the end. Don't fall in love with these tactical ideas. You have to calculate them. And just because your king is safer doesn't mean. that the complications are always gonna work out. in your favor. That's why I played C4. Of course, I was expecting King E8, and here I think Knight B5. is incredibly strong, much stronger than taking the knight on d5. because the night isn't going anywhere. It can't move to C7. Technically, it can move to E7. I think the simplest approach here. is actually well actually rook d1 check wins the queen because king c8 knight a7 is a fork And here there's 96, followed by Knight F7 and Knight takes H8. Another great illustration of not getting fixated on checkmate. Rather, you just win a decisive amount of material and there's nothing left to calculate. Okay. Oh, don't spend your remaining time to, oh, can I somehow use the discount? No, just forget about it. 9F7, 9H8, the game is over. There's nothing left to calculate. So no matter how you slice it, either white takes on a7 and retracts the knight and then promotes, or we win on the D file. There's just too many areas of the board where black is suffering. Perhaps Bishop e7 is the lesser evil, but we always have this check. and the simplest is just to take on a7 and get this knight back to b5 this is the simplest way to win followed by a7 and knight c7 And I was definitely you know doubting myself at some points It's crazy that rook g8 wins the Queen But we have this magical resource Queen takes g8 and rook b8 and there's just nothing that black can do against the threat of Rook B7. That's actually what we started with. We went full circle. So don't feel too bad, Wank, that you gave up this bishop. Your position was lost amazingly. is there's just no stopping this plan. The pawn on eight six decides the game. And, you know, great job for not sort of automatically grabbing the rook, which I think a lot of people would have done. This loses the rook on H8 and loses the game. You paused here and said, wait a second, my king is amazingly safe, but I managed to maintain my composure and find rook B8 ultimately just your minor pieces are too passive and your queen isn't able to stop the pawn on its own. Okay, guys. So thank you all.