We got the 96-core Threadripper Pro! Now, we could do a straight-faced review of this thing, tell you all about the Hertz and the degrees and the millivolts, but realistically, are you a Saudi oil prince? No? Are you a procurement manager, then, for a $100 million design firm? Oh, no. You're not that either? Well, then, realistically, you and I, we're never buying this thing. So why don't we just have some fun with it? Did you know that we are going to make this thing fast enough to set multiple world records, including Cinebench? Yes. We reviewed the script together, like always. Nice. Also, with 96-cores and the new VRM layout, this thing is insanely fast, even before you hook up a 5,000-watt chiller to it. It apparently can draw over 1,000 watts on its own. Really? 1,000 watts just to the CPU? Like through the pins? Yes. That's wild, but not as wild as this segue to our sponsor. Build Redux. They're so into building custom gaming PCs for any budget, they made an online PC builder that shows you how your favorite games perform, so they can start building your perfect rig sooner. They just want to build for you, dude. Head to buildredux.com slash Linus and create your new rig today. Ours, then, was sent over by Falcon Northwest, who told us, don't look that closely at this thing. It was a total rush up. The RGB doesn't light up, and this UV printing isn't up to our usual standard, but honestly, we think they're kind of crazy, because this thing looks amazing. The chassis was fully designed in-house by their president, Kelt, and the specs are mind-blown. We've got 64 gigs of DDR5, 6,000 ECC. We have two PCIe Gen 5 SSDs running in RAID 0, alongside a casual 30 terabyte SSD from Micron that Falcon Northwest said, well, you know, for anyone who's doing content creation, they're going to need lots of storage, so we threw that in there just to make sure. It runs an Asus TRX50 Sage Wi-Fi with an insane 43 power phases on it. Really? 800 amp limit? No, that's the old limit. That's the old limit? Shut up. 800 amps was the limit of the old one through one plane. That's still the limit, but there's power planes on each side of the socket that go to each side of the chip, and you can do them individually. So now we have 1,600 amps total that we can draw, I guess. Where's all that going to come from, you ask? They swapped out the usual 1,600 watt power supply for a 2,050 watt Silverstone Hella. Hella cool. It's worth noting in North America that power supply is still a 1,600 watt power supply, so you need 240 volts in order to get the whole 2,050, which we have. We have a power supply tester. And we're going to need it. Enough chit chat, though. We promised fun. What do you want to do first? I want to play Cities Skylines 2. Of course you do. All of you guys know that this game is very difficult to run. Demanding. We have a million population city. This was sent to me by Biffa Plays Indie Games. If we were using the same machine as Biffa, 5800X3D, 4090, and 128 gigs of DDR4 memory, our system would simply crash as soon as the level loaded. Whoa, buddy. Holy crap. I mean, it's not running great. Well, do you want to look at the processes? Holy crap. They were not kidding when they said this game would use the CPU cores you gave it. I have never seen an actual real game use this kind of CPU power. Not even close. Although it's not all of them. Yeah. Yeah, what's up with that? What's up with these ones? I think it can do 64 cores. Wow. Which is still really impressive. I mean, unless you don't happen to have a 64 core CPU and you want to build a million population city, then it's a bit of a problem. This is totally running now, though. Oh, yeah, like it's not great, but you could play it. Wait, we drew up to a thousand watts already? Yes. I mean, yeah, we've got a 4090 in there, but it's running at 35% capacity. We haven't even overclocked anything yet. Nope. Wow. So lots of them are at lower clocks, but a lot of them are right up at 4.7. Like all of these are hitting 4.7. I'm surprised it's not 4.8. That's the limit when you're using more than eight cores at a time for this chip. Okay. What's next? Next is we download a game because that in itself is fun. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Okay. That's just reserving space. Okay. I thought things were really crazy for a second there. Oh, look at that CPU usage go. 48%. Holy shhh. Yeah, it goes. I've never seen anything even close to this. Yes. No, the CPU decode always just starts killing you over about like what, one gigabit? Guys, this is Forza Horizon 5. Two minutes remaining. Did you have to connect to the Seattle server to get the best speeds or like... No, I just did it. Well, we're peered through Vanix and I believe Valve has also peered through Vanix. So theoretically, we were always just CPU limited. It's probably also those four terabyte RAID 0 drives. To be clear, you don't need that kind of throughput, but the IOPS, the random IOPS, because it's unpacking this in the background. That's why it uses so much CPU. We are writing to our disk at 1.4 gigabytes per second. That is closer to 12 gigabit. Damn. Right? Because it is unpacking in the background. Noctua screwdriver. Now, I know you guys saw this already, except you probably didn't, because if you blinked, you would have missed it in the intro. We're going to do a quick run of Cinebench R23, and by quick, I mean that by the time I finish stalling for time, it will be done. 115,000 points. This thing is definitely a little bit overclocked from the factory. Oh, interesting. So, Falcon's tuning it? Well, probably ASUS is. Ah, yes. Okay, good old multi-core enhancement. Yeah. Let's take it to another level. Okay, so wait, should I just be dumping fluid into it while you talk through the alterations we've made to this? No, we have to do the alterations. Oh, we're going to make some alterations, because we thought you guys might get bored of seeing the same old 5,000-watt chiller with the same old 5-degree Celsius limit. How factory-approved are these alterations to hit lower temperatures? So, I talked to Thermoscientific. Cool. Hi, Thermoscientific. Yeah, they were not super happy about what we wanted to do. If our fluid freezes in the plate heat exchanger that they have in there, it will expand and completely write off our entire unit. I see. But they told us how to do it anyway? No. Oh. We were just spoofing it. We're spoofing it? What do you mean by spoofing it? What does that even mean? That is so janky. Right here is the thermocouple that they use to figure out how cold the water is. And when the water hits 5 degrees Celsius, they turn it off. But if this right here just goes, I don't know, right there, they don't know how cold the water is. Speaking of which, it can't be water. Because if it was, then we would almost certainly blow up the plate heat exchanger. That's where this stuff comes in. Windshield de-icer. We could use antifreeze, but from my experience working with chilled systems in the past, it tends to get a little bit viscous. Once you hit negative 20, negative 25. This stuff, by contrast, stays water-like in its viscosity down to almost its entire rated temperature range, which is down to minus 49 degrees Celsius. Now what, then? I basically just pull this block. We put on a new block. We call it a day. Yeah, but it's a tiny bit more complicated than that. For the new Threadrippers, they want 135 pounds of force from the heat sink. Oh, that's basically like a small adult male standing on it. Yes. Although it turns out it's actually not quite that much. These older ones should have about 96 pounds of force, which is enough. So we did go ahead when we thought we needed 135. Made our own man for this SP5 block. But now I kind of just want to use the old one because I don't think- it should be fine. I mean, the worst thing that could happen is the system won't post, or one of our memory modules won't show up, and then we'll try again. Yeah, and with this guy, the worst thing that happens is... We kill it. Oh, my goodness. Something we also can do right now is upgrade the RAM if we so feel like it. What is that? These are the 6400 mega transfer per second G-Skills. Oh, wow. They only put stickers on them, really G-Skill? I mean, I'd rather have iSpeed RAM with a sticker than slower RAM with a big metal cooler on it. So sure. Yeah, let's do it. Yeah. All right. There it is. Goodness gracious. That's a big heat spreader. Goes all the way to the flipping edge. Now, something you guys are probably wondering about if you've watched us use the chiller before is... Guys, where's the precautions? Where's the sub-zero treatment for the motherboard? It's gonna die. And you'd be right. Under normal circumstances, as soon as you go below the ambient temperature in the room by too much, condensation starts to form on your tubes and on your blocks and on the back of your motherboard, which can cause a short, which can cause death. But because we didn't really want to put this motherboard through the schmoo treatment, we came up with a new idea. What if, instead of insulating our system against the cold, we embraced the cold? As long as the environment around it matches that temperature, it shouldn't be a problem. So we're going to put the whole thing in the environmental chamber set to what? Minus 20. Sure. Or minus 10 or 15. I don't know. I just picked that. As long as we don't go too low, because we did do that video a little while ago where we found out that certain components don't behave well below about minus 30, minus 40. Yeah. Yeah. It's a bad time. I just want to clean this so we don't get any schmoo on anything when it's hanging out here. Do we want to take the whole thing out? No. I was just going to kind of leave it. Oh, wait. You were waiting for me to figure it out, right? The fluid in the lines. It's going to freeze. It might. It's going to blow up our radiator. Oh, crap. All right. Yeah. It's going to have to come out. One moment, please. Okay. Time to get frosty. Not frosty. Because frost is from the moisture in the air. We don't want that. Is that minus 20 already? Yep. Heck yeah, boy. Oh, God. Oh, God. Okay. Hi. Hello. Are we using worm drive clamps? Yep. Now, under normal circumstances, we would have concerns about condensation buildup on these tubes. But in this case, it doesn't really matter because- Oh, wait. We do have a solution for that. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. We have a solution for that. Oh, I didn't really care. I was just going to let it drip onto the floor. Oh, nope, nope, nope. One second. I mean, okay. There's those, but- What is that? It's insulation. That's not insulation. Oh, inside of it is insulation. Insulation. I mean, sure. Fun facts. When we're done with this, this system is going to have to sit for probably about three or four days to let all the sweat, all the water that's just going to condensate on it evaporate and allow it to function normally. That's a good noise. No, no, it's good. It's good. It's cycling. It's going. Oh, temp probe thing. Yes. Man, we have gotten so much mileage out of this thing. Yeah. I have owned that since pre-LMG times. Oh, nice. All right. 15. And dropping fast. It worked. Wow. Damn. All right. 128 gigs, DDR5, 64 freaking hundred. What else are we doing in here? Other than appreciating this delightful throwback BIOS screen. I think we use AI, the power of AI. What? You want to go back to that? The warning? Last one? The warning. Oh, this. Oh, sorry. It's like ads. I don't see warnings. A lot of people probably don't, but these CPUs actually have a little fuse in them that will tell AMD if you have overclocked your chip. Now, they promise that they will not deny you warranty if you have overclocked your chip unless you kill it through overclocking. But then why do it? That sounds like a trust me bro guarantee if I've ever heard one. Manual CPU overclocking. Okay, what do we want? We don't want any of this garbage manual stuff. Go to AI. Recalibrate cooler. Okay, more inclined to update. What is this? What am I? What is even happening right now? Optimism scale? What the hell is an optimism scale? If it's going to stay as cool as it currently is. I see. Okay, so keep training. More inclined to update optimism scale 100. Okay, were you happy? Sure. What does this do? This just gives it more power and more hertz? I don't know, but Gary said it's really good. That's hilarious. AI tweaker after all these years finally has some AI in it. It was 100% a branding thing. I think it was back LGA 1366 was when they first launched that branding. What do we think, level four? Sure. This is where you can see that you can actually change each of the CPU rails independently. Wow. So if one of your like sides of your CPU is a little bit faster, you can give that one more voltage and give the other slower side less so that it doesn't eat into your cooler budget. This is great, hey? Not having to insulate? And she's pristine in there. Actually, all that frost that formed before looks like it's sublimated away because I guess the humidity in here is so low. This is awesome. No shmoo. And our CPU is at 9.6 degrees. All right, Cinebench then. You ready? Yeah. So this is doing nothing but telling the AI to be optimistic. Slower. Huh. Why is it slower? Good AI. What if we try again. Be more optimistic. Okay, so it's the same. All right, back to the BIOS. I see that after all of our dicking around with PBO and curve offsets and all of that, we've gone old school. Yep, we have very simple all core ratio set, manual voltage on all of them. That is scary. 5.1 gigahertz all cores. There's no way that's going to work. Oh, wait and see. Are you expecting this to actually work? Yeah. I said 1,000 watts, not 2,000 watts. Oh, we're going to get close. To 1,000 or 2,000? We should have right now the fastest non-overclocked Threadripper. What do you mean non-overclocked? Or the fastest not LN2 Threadripper. The fastest one of these has ever gone is 168,000 in Cinebench. Wow, we weren't even close. Without LN2. For now, I changed the priority to high. 168,696. Wait, are we not there? I just want to see 169. That is an exact match. Holy crap. Exactly to the point. Well, let's run it again. Yes, we did it. 169. Nice. Nice. 1,400 watts through the socket. Those poor VRMs. I don't think anyone's going to try and replicate this. But before you do, there are a couple of other things we changed. So you played around with the curve optimizer. Curve optimizer. Which is what? I don't know. I mean, that's fair. But it's part of AMD's Black Magic. That's part of PBO. And essentially is kind of like undervolting, underload. But not vDroop. Yeah, something like that. Okay, perfect. Thank you. That's very helpful. Also, turned up load line calibration to five. And then there was one other thing that you did. Slue rate. Funt that up. All right. We gave it the old slew rate. Yeah. Sweep the leg. Boom, go faster. Otherwise, we'll get you. Yeah. So thanks. We're here now. Now. Yes. 5.2? What? Let's go to 5.2. But we'll have to change the V port. Up or down? Oh, good. I mean, we peaked at 30 degrees last time. Yeah, we have way more. Yeah, we'll get way more until we blow it up. What? No. Why is everyone but me wanting to kill this $10,000 chip? No, the chip will probably be fine. I think it would be the motherboard that would poop itself. But that's fine. We have ASUS contacts. Do they even still like you? No, but- They like me. Yeah, they like Alex. Here we go. Still can't believe how fast that is. Should we set the 2003 world record? Cinebench 2003. Yeah. Sure. Now, this isn't going to hit all of the cores, but the 96-core world record in this is 4,507. Okay. I think we can beat it. Yep, we did. Easy. I don't even know where to find the score in this application. Right there. There at 8,600. All right, see you later, world record. Yep, hell yeah. Nice knowing you. I wonder if we could game at this, though. Can we fire up Cities Skylines 2 again? I have a strong suspicion that we're not going to make it into the game. Does the mouse still move? Oh, yeah. Okay, we're not locked up yet. Here we go, here we go, here we go, here we go. She's still working, Alex. It's still a system. And there we go. Oh, and there it goes. It hit 1,100 watts for a second there. Our GPU is only running at about 34% utilization. Like, the GPU is not the thing struggling here. I think the game engine is what's struggling. This does seem smoother than before. He said, right as it completely crapped itself. Oh, my hands. Here we go. Oh, my, look at this cable. My hands, my poor hands. But no danger to it, as long as it's in there. Isn't that awesome? Threadripper Pro, then. Practical for the average consumer? Absolutely not. It's going to be a lot of years. And looking at how Cities Skylines 2 can't even use all these cores before we see any kind of consumer workload that can take advantage of this kind of muscle. But is it cool? Yeah. Whether you're a business that can take advantage of all of that grunt, or you're just the kind of person who likes seeing things go really fast. You know, what would happen if we took AMD's EPYC server processors and just completely let them off the leash? It's freaking mind-blowing. Like this mind-blowing segue to our sponsor. Squarespace. Need a website but don't have the know-how? Squarespace's all-in-one platform makes it easy to get your website up and running quickly, so you don't have to longingly scroll through other people's cool websites and wonder what might have been. Grow your business online through their marketing features, including SEO support, email campaigns, and social tools. Choose from a wide selection of award-winning mobile optimized templates and check out their commerce platform, which comes with everything you need from merchandising to checkout. I said checkout twice. Love you, Squarespace. There's also analytic insights to help you optimize for performance so you can see what's working well and what needs a little tweaking. If you get stuck on anything, Squarespace offers help guides and a 24-7 support team. Head to squarespace.com forward slash LTT and get 10% off today. If you guys enjoyed this video, why not the last time we went sub-zero? When was that? The last City Skylines 2 video. Oh yeah, cool. Yeah, that was fun. More Intel flavored that time though. They kind of need it more. Yeah.