(light hurried music) - Hi, I'm April Walker. I'm a house supervisor here at EIRMC. I've been a nurse for 18 years. Probably like you, I've heard it all, seen it all, done it all. Being a nurse a long time, my words and actions don't That's what this video is all about, part of the Patient Experience Initiative, say this not, not that, project. You'll watch our patient hear our words and our tone and see our body language and actions. And sometimes in ways we We filmed in certain areas of the hospital and used employees that volunteered to help with this project. The actions and words portrayed represent all departments - What are you here for? - My wife's been having abdominal pain and been throwing up. - What's her name? - Susie Smith. - [Receptionist] Do - Yes. - Well, if you just wanna have - Thanks. - [Receptionist] How can I help you today? - My wife's been having some - Sorry to hear that. What's your name? - Susie Smith. (typing) - Do you have an insurance card and a driver's license I can get from ya? - [Husband] Sure. - And process that through. (phone rings) Thank you so much. And you can go and have a seat and they should be right with you. Is there anything else I can get you? I have an Emesis bag here, it would help. Yeah. - [Receptionist] There you are. - Thanks. - [Receptionist] You bet. (typing) - Woops, this one's still dirty. Looks like we forgot to clean that one. Let's find a different one. (Susie sighs) Oh, I'm sorry, this room's not ready. We have another room just down the hall. So what's your problem today? - My stomach has been hurting a lot. I've been throwing up all day, I can't keep anything down. (machine beeps) - Do you take any pain medications? - I take two Lortab for back pain, but it doesn't seem to be - Do you really take that much? (machine beeps) All right, so the doctor's and labs really take a long time, so you're gonna be here for awhile. - Can I have some water? - No, you can't have anything (Susie sighs) (machine beeps) Hello, my name's Jim. I'm gonna be your What do you prefer to be called? - Susie. - All right, Susie, I understand you're having abdominal pain today? - Yeah, it's been hurting I've been throwing up all day, I can't keep anything down. - I'm sorry to hear that. Do you take any medications at home, including pain medication? - I take two Lortab every four but it doesn't seem to be - Okay, let me confirm this. So you take Lortabs, two, as you need that for back pain. Okay, I also see on here where a CAT scan and some lab So somebody from lab will and a transporter will be over - Can I have some water? - Right now based on your abdominal pain and we need more information, so we don't want you to on the offside chance that you If you were to eat or drink, So I'm going to give you a call light. Excuse me, sir. If you need anything at all, just be sure to hit your Okay? - Okay. - [Female] Hey, did you - [Nurse] No, who? - [Female] Crazy Annie's back. - Again? I'm so sick and tired seems I'm the only one that So every time it comes up, oh, they call me. I wish someone would step - [Female] I heard the funniest thing about Annie the other day. - [Nurse] Oh, really? I'm ready for something juicy. - [Female] Hey, I just I'm taking care of that room today, but I know you and her have would you mind taking care of her and I'll watch over one - No, that will be fine. I'll be happy to. But first, let me tell you about the funniest thing that - [Female] Hey, hold that thought. I wanna hear what you have to say, but let's talk about it at lunch. - Okay, that sounds good to me. - Hi, hun, I'm your transporter. - Transport? - Are you Susie? - Yeah, I'm Susie Smith. - Oh, oh, is this for the CT scan? - Yes, this is for CT. - Oh, do you know will the CT scan hurt? - I don't know, hun, but I'm just here to - Oh. You don't know what they do there? - Hi, I'm Carolyn, I'm here And your full name? - Susie Smith. - Great, I'll help you in the chair. - Do you know what is going to happen? - You're having abdominal pains, so you're going to take you a CT scan. - Oh, that's right, they said that this would need to happen. That's right, I remember. - [Female] Sir, we're all You can go and be with your wife. - This looks really bad. - [Female] That does look bad. I need to go tell Dr. White. Sir, we're all done with the scan now. You can go and be with your wife. - This image looks really fuzzy. - [Female] That does look fuzzy. Let me see if Dr. White - Well, looks like You're gonna have to wait They're really busy upstairs and all the rooms are dirty. So as soon as something's available, they'll come and get ya. - Where am I going? - I'm not sure. - Well, Susie, the doctors to the hospital to get you We're going to be placing where we have great nurses and A transporter in tan scrubs will be here within about 30 minutes Do you have any questions? - I did have one question, I was just wondering about the results? - All the transporters are busy, I guess I'm gonna have - [Female] Oh my gosh, and did you hear about the movie yesterday? - Oh, yeah, I saw it. (laughing) - Oh my gosh. - [Brunette Female] Oh good grief, I'm not gonna do that again. - Hey, how was your weekend? - Okay, it was way too short. I was hoping to get some time off, but I don't think that's gonna happen. - I know what you mean, that's the way it is around this place. They never think of our needs. - Another day in paradise. Hope the elevators are working today. - Hey, Susie, all the so I get the pleasure - [Female Brunette] Oh my gosh, did you... - [Female] Good morning. - Hi, good morning. - Hey, how was your weekend? - It was good, I got to spend Hi there, you're in good he's the best nurse we've got. - Seems like you have a good team here. - Thanks, take care. - Hey. Don't put her all the way down there, the nurses don't wanna walk that far. Why don't we put her in room 410. (Jim sighs) - Can't believe they can't pick a room. - Hey, Jim, there is a down the hall that's right why don't we put her in there? That way it'll be easier and we can keep a better eye on you. - Okay, we're on our way. Okay. (Susie sighs) Good luck. Okay, Susie, we've arrived at your room. May I help you get into bed? - [Susie] Thank you. - Hi, Susie, my name's Tiffany. I'm gonna be your nurse tonight. - Thank you. - Is it okay if I call you Susie? - [Susie] Yeah, that's great. - I'm gonna give you your call light and if you need a staff just hit the red button, okay? - Okay. (sighs) - And there's also a call - Thank you. Thanks. - We're gonna talk about report right here with you so and you can be included Is that okay? - Yeah, that's fine. - This is Susie, she's... - Oh, hi Susie. I got here as soon as I could. The parking lot was completely full, I drove around for minutes just trying to find a place to park. I finally wound up Traffic was pretty bad, I almost got hit. - [Susie] I'm so sorry. - Oh, I know. - [Susie] Thanks for coming. - Hey. - Oh, hey girl, how are ya? - I'm good, how are you? - I have your Girl Scout - Oh, you do? I can get them tonight after work. - You know what, we can I'm parked right down in the - (chuckles) okay. Hey, I'm the dietician. I'm here to see how the food is. - Well, I'm really hungry, - You know I'm really sorry, this is the cardiac diet you're on and it's just not very - The cardiac diet, are you sure for me? - What I've heard is that they couldn't read the so this is kinda what you got stuck with. So, I'm sorry. Is there anything else I can do? - No. - All right, thanks. - Oh, hi Susie. - Hi, mom. - I got here as soon as I could. - Thanks for coming. - They have this great shuttle service, it dropped me right off at the front door. - I'm so glad, thanks for coming. - Oh, yes. (knocking) - Knock knock. Hi, Susie, my name's I'm here to see how your food's been. - Well, I'm really hungry, - You know, you're on a cardiac diet designed to be low sodium So that's why it tastes but we add the Mrs. Dash in order to make it a little bit - The cardiac diet, are you sure? - You know, actually Id be happy to go check and come back and let - That'd be great. - Okay, is there anything - No, thank you. - All right, thanks. - Hey Lindsay, when you get a - Yeah, sure, I'd love to. - Hi, Susie, I just spoke with your doctor and he's gonna be up in just a minute. He's gonna review your test results, answer any questions you might have. - [Susie] Okay, that's, whoa. (chuckling) - That's just one of our therapists. You know, when you're in the hospital you never know how little your insurance or your gown might cover. Hey, Susie, I just talked and he's gonna be on his He'll answer any questions, review your labs and your tests with you. Oh, that's just one of our therapists. We have a variety of staff members here to help assist with patient needs. - I can't believe Dr. White, he treats the staff like - He is, I don't wanna call him right now. - [Female] Neither do I. - Yeah. - Excuse me? - Yes? - [Husband] My wife, and she needs some medication. - Okay, what's the room number? - Room 410. - 410. All right, well I'm not but I'll find her for you and we'll get her right down there. - Okay. - I can't believe he said that, though. I don't wanna call him. Okay, looks like the labs CHEM-7. - [Female] Yes, how can I help you? - [Husband] My wife, and she needs her medicine. - Okay, can I get her - Her name's Susie - 410. All right, it looks like Tiffany is taking care of Susie today. I'll talk to her and see when and we'll be right down for ya. - Thank you much. - You're welcome. (cup clinks) - Oh. - I can get that. - Thank you. We should really let you get some rest. - [Susie] Okay, thank you. - Why don't we go down to the cafeteria and get some coffee. - Okay. - See ya. - Bye. - [Susie] Thank you. - [Husband] Pardon me. - Excuse me. - [Susie] Thanks mom for being here. - Oh. - I can get that. - Thank you. - Mm-hmm. - We should really let you get some rest. - [Susie] Thank you. - Yes, why don't we run and get some coffee and let her sleep? - Okay. - All right, thank you. - [Susie] I'll see you in a bit. Thank you. - If you need any assistance, - Thank you. - You're welcome. - I think we're lost. - Excuse me, could you tell us - Just follow these black - Thanks. - How long do you think - I hope not for very long. - Oh, no kidding. - [Female] Can I help you find something? - Yes, we're looking for the cafeteria. - Sure, it's this way, I'll take ya. - Thank you. - Hey, Jamie, I'm going there anyway. I can show them where it's at. - [Jamie] Okay, thanks. - Thank you. - Follow me this way. - How long do you think - I talked to her doctor this morning, he said it'll probably just be a few days. - [Mother] Oh, that's such good news. - After taking part in this video, I recognize my missteps, especially the unintentional ones. The point of this video is your interactions. The interactions can come across as compassionate, kind, and caring, or mistrust, confusion, and anger. We thank you for watching this video.