Yes, we loaded the car extra full. The Volvo FH with 460 hp and XL cab is about to go on the rounds for the ETM Fehrenkotter test. Let's see what it can do. We already had a few Volvos in our fleet and they worked well. What's special about this one is that this lamp design, very pointed, is very striking, especially in the dark when someone comes towards you. Otherwise the shape is very smooth, very aerodynamic, which is also reflected in really good fuel consumption. In the discussion about engine performance today, the trend is towards 500 hp in trucks. At that time, we decided together with Volvo: we would go with the 460 hp engine with a turbo compound. It has a great torque curve, it really packs a punch! We don't always drive the maximum weights and so you actually have the right engine for all situations. Volvo did the cabin concept a little differently. So that means the roof is slightly sloping at the top. Of course, this comes at the expense of storage space. There is also this sunroof, which can also be opened, which certainly brings a lot of light into the driver's cab and makes the whole thing a little more homely and friendly. Of course, there is also a lack of storage space right there. So that means the concept leans more towards aerodynamics and also a bit of optics, i.e. brightness, at the expense of storage space. From my point of view there is a small downer here, that is the feeling of space. On the one hand, we have an engine tunnel, and I have to thread my feet through it quite a bit if I want to move towards the driver's cab. And the other thing is the dashboard that is tilted towards the driver. This has advantages in terms of operation, but has the disadvantage that it is really clearly placed in the driver's cab and that you feel a bit cramped here. So, the car runs really, really nicely. Steering very light. I just maneuvered a bit , but not only smoothly, but also on track. Switches quickly, runs quietly. So really silky soft. Well, what matters when driving is, firstly, that a truck is easy to steer, that it is easy to direct and that it stays on track. That relieves. And then it's the same as it is here on the slope, the switching processes are super fast, so not much energy is lost in the switching process. So the engine's torque curve is also great or it holds the torque for a long time, that's good. First of all, we have a digital cockpit here in the Volvo, which I think is very good. Then there is the obligatory screen where you can display the radio, navigation, etc. What I'm missing are the digital mirrors, i.e. the camera system-based mirrors. And overall I find the interior very angular. You could almost say it's as Swedish as Volvo used to be in cars. This could perhaps be made a little more elegant in the long run. So the Volvo cost us more to purchase than the previous vehicles. Of course, that has to be put into perspective. We haven't had any damage to the car so far, and in the end we'll just settle the matter. If you don't have any repairs and have great fuel consumption, you may want to cost a little more at the beginning or vice versa. Of course, if an expensive car has damage and the fuel consumption isn't great, then it quickly becomes an economic deadlock. The Volvo is currently fighting for the top three places. Virtually no major repairs. Consumption is really very good. We basically have a slugfest between Volvo and Scania here. We are currently driving consumption at 27.5 liters. This is really a great value. So I think it will come out very far ahead at the end of the test. I believe that the highest quality materials are used here, no matter where you put your hand. This all makes a very, very valuable impression. Really top quality. Also the built-in cupboards, some of which are blind cupboards. Nothing rattles, nothing rattles. This is all very pleasant. The conclusion to the Volvo FH is: Great drive train, powerful engine, quick-shifting gearbox, good fuel consumption, very high-quality workmanship, inside and outside. The few rough edges it has are part of the concept. And although he is the last in the test, he will definitely not be the last in the test.