[Mooji] Many people try to fix the life, then you get to a point, there's more fixing. There's no end to fixing. See when you become empty, See if you are anxious, see if you're worried about life or death, see. Because you will have the capacity to see. And if it feels really, really good to you, invest in this commitment to keep doing it. Just for yourself. What is more simple than this? Overcome the Fear of Death... 14 April 2024 [Questioner 1] Is it OK? [M.] And you may sit also, if you want. [Q.1] It's good to stand. [Q.1] Thank you. [Q.1] And I'm asking you, because I want you to test me that comes up for me daily. It didn't when I was younger, OK. Every day I live with the reality [Mooji] Yes, it's a good thing. [Q.1] And I have this desire in me to die consciously. And what I mean by that is, to not hold on to my physical reality, when it's time for me to leave. And I don't know if I'm able to do that. And what I want to know, is this just my mind, or is this really a sincere place? [Mooji] Thank you, thank you. seems to me to be able to accept it [Mooji] Yes. [Q.1] And I know I need your help. [Q.1] I know if I could be with you If I could be with you, [Mooji] There is a way, of being in that way. It need not be that we are physically together. That's a very important thing. There are many people or with the many great saints and sadhus, and they never met them physically. And you asked a question before. One person, one of our very dear sisters who departed from this plane maybe a couple of years ago, and I spoke with her the very night also, And ... Actually, she is very close with Lakshmi. And actually, even after dropping the body, she asked her, Lakshmi asked her, in heart, 'How did you leave?' So, what did you ask? [Lakshmi] How did you leave so well? She was also in very serious pain with cancer. I spoke with her. Even we have a small book like last words I share with her. And she said to her, The very same thing. We didn't have an end of the life It is the same. You have been pointed to that that all things come through the mind they come and they go, They come and they go. Once you can be clear about that, you will know that you must be here, because you are the witness of the things Because if you were any of those things, when they go, you would also be gone. Who are you? Are you also a thing? Even your own state of personal identity, sometimes very strong, Its emotions come and go; Some beliefs come and go. There is something earlier that is aware of personal identity also, [Q.1] Yes. [Q.1] There is no form. [M.] Therefore, if you have come and don't get it mixed up The mind is always coming. And if it comes, and if it's witnessed to come and go, there must be something that sees the mind coming and going. This I call your Self. [M.] Do you see? [M.] And we persist with that, When we do the exercise, for some people it's impossible because the mind force seems so ... pulls the senses, in the beginning. But look how quickly that begins to change. If you keep it up, you persist with it, at some point, you realise that, And This is not stagnant. It's not like it's dead. But it is not fickle like the mind. This is the place we have reached now to say, you are crossing over from the state of person and mind Keep clarifying, keep clarifying. And the force of the mind is going to get weaker and weaker and weaker. [M.] But in the beginning [Q.1] So then, the fear that comes up is, [Q.1] that the intensity of that experience ... [Mooji] Yes, waking up more and more you realise how much pain you live in [Q.1] Yes, I have more and ... [Mooji] All our life the state of personhood [Mooji] unstable, restless. [M.] So when you're able ... But look with detachment that there is a space and the place which sees it. And just keep just this, just this. You don't need to be doing You don't need anything. The mind will give you other things, Because when something works, be sure your mind is going to try That's the play. It's not a surprise to anyone that this is a play And you can, because the mind but it's stronger than [Q.1] Say that again. [M.] The mind is not stronger but it is much more influential to the person you take yourself to be, which is a mind created identity. Most people in the world probably They're not ... that it's not even appealing. It's not appealing. been prepared by some Grace [Mooji] It must take some maturity to be in a place where the ego is challenged. [M.] Not challenged to a fight, [M.] but challenged by a higher wisdom. I'm waiting to see who will come out next, But you are here. [Q.1] I'm very grateful to be here. that a higher thing [Q.1] Thank you. [Q.1] Thank you. [Mooji] Let's just take a moment now. If I was giving 7 or 8 powerful techniques the mind will be much more interested probably. But when things have boiled down then you start to feel the twitching because something that is not yet stable, starts to feel challenged. You must bear that challenge Actually, the thing is nothing at all, but to the one who believes it, it becomes something really important. We have been throwing away because the ego didn't like it. It's like that. You, either this or this one. [Questioner 2] Thank you Mooji. [Q.2] I feel a really strong urge [Q.2] to lay this out before you when I attended the retreat last week and subsequently, here, I came to the realisation that and I've made that, I've said that, And tomorrow I go home, and I know I'll be going into a maelstrom and I want to place them at your feet. Because what they are, and that's a preoccupation that our society conditions us to. And I'm still ... and I'm in a few tricky situations, and I want to put them at your feet. And proclaim that from now, I'm seeking to live in my heart and not to give priority [Mooji] Yes, yes. Just persist and it grows. Don't try to conquer everything at once. Just stay. Look and see. If you don't identify with anything at all, Don't say, all day. You can't. But in the morning I'd recommend, before you go out into the world, and learn to empty yourself. It's the most healthy thing and nobody is teaching it. Just empty everything. Don't fight. Don't curse. But empty. Be detached. Let things come, but give more energy to just being detached Don't hold a shape to yourself. Just be aware and detached. Don't hide. Don't hide. Don't fight. Learn to do it, We are all carrying something. And yet, it's the one thing So don't try and take on the world. It's only here. [points to head] Learn to be detached. And you'll see that quickly, quickly Just stay with it Gradually, a lot of the troubles you have in life will begin to come more right. Just keep staying. And something wants to say, It cannot be simple like this.' Just do. And then when you say, see when you become empty, See if you are suffering. See if you are anxious. See if there is any fear lingering in you. See if you are worried about life or death, see. Because you will have the capacity to see. And if it feels really, really good to you, invest in this commitment to keep doing it. Just for yourself. What is more simple than this? It's just the mind is not having it. It's trying to find another way to fix the world, which it doesn't want to. Many people try to fix the life, then they get to a point, There's no end to fixing. All that needs to happen is that, you are in the place of Self-discovery, that you are resting inside your heart. All the great beings, the teachers, that's all that happened. earlier than the mind and conditioning. They didn't fight. When you realise who you are, Action, reaction, interaction, people, and you find that Rather than fencing and defending you find that, in some way, you are life. And at the same time, Simple. [Q.2] Thank you. [Q.2] I'd also like to thank the beings here, who said that exact thing to me [M.] Very good. [M.] Thanks to you, thank you. We won't break up the sitting Just one sitting we will do, I think you can handle it. Om Now, leave everything alone. Don't carry any identity with anything that may appear in the mind. Be apart and alone and conscious. Mind will take some shape. You are not this shape or any shape. But resist the habit Very simple. Be very determined to stay uninvolved. Doesn't matter what comes. Just be alone. Let go of all identity. It is possible. Do it. Remain empty, and inwardly very spacious. You are not a room. You have no boundaries here. Do not hold on to any identity. When you hear this sound, it means Emptiness. Stay empty. For sometime, it might seem very easy because of the habit But here, now, be only alone. You don't need any identity for this. Do not fall asleep. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Don't create. Stay empty. Detached. You are being aware that has been the main influence You are doing well. Stay empty and conscious. Mind will try to put you to sleep to avoid the power of being awake [Mooji clacks the sticks] Do not be deceived. You do not need anything from the mind. Discover this. Here, the mind's trick from God within your own Self, from truth, and from your eternal nature. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Stay empty, even if it feels difficult but Grace is with you. This is perhaps to break free from ego. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Discover pure consciousness This is very rare. But you will never regret it. Choose to remain empty. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Don't identify with the person. Very good. Stay empty. There is nothing of value You are choosing and have chosen, to awaken in this life form. Something is trying to distract you from This. Stay only aware. Awareness is your Self, True. Beyond names and forms. Don't let your head fall. Stay up. [Mooji clacks the sticks] [Mooji clacks the sticks] Do not touch any image, any thought. Even the sense of your own personal identity, It's only appearing in the mind. Awareness is not a state Beyond enjoyment or suffering. Absolutely pure being. That which perceives experiencing even. Stay empty. Be determined to stay empty. Do not give in to the mind. You will soon see why. You are not your head. You are not your thoughts. Om Empty. Empty. Notice the unbound nature of this Emptiness, without boundary. This exercise is most important that thoughts, sensations can come, but they cannot affect the Emptiness. You are very present. Also, that there is no need to sit all day, but to clarify your being, be here, and life flows on within the awareness, It's very important from personal feelings and identity Clarity and peace. True happiness. Also be aware that Awareness itself Awareness is not an exercise. It is the ground of being. You need not believe this. You ought to be able to verify If you don't touch identity, Actions, reactions, interactions But don't speak about it. Simply Be. Sometimes you may experience a sensation, like the the urge to yawn, meaning like, it's a very natural thing, very good, freeing up the space. and is also a sign of grace. It's OK. Don't work for that. You begin to experience everything as a play of spontaneity. You'll be very present and undisturbable. But if disturbance plays, You may go and sit, Clarify. Flow. All is good. Do not endure being in the company You can step away. You do not have that obligation, in which case, in detachment. And do not look for trouble Let it come spontaneously. OK. I say, don't look for things to test, because it's the ego that wants to be tested. Very good. Om. Thank you. Ignorance will manifest through the mind, but if and when, ignorance gets much trouble will come. Observe them with detachment. Free yourself from such entanglements and remain happy and peaceful. Thank you. Copyright 2024 Mooji Media Ltd. No part of this recording may be reproduced without Mooji Media Ltd.'s express consent.