Only thing between us Let's go, boys. Come on. We can do it! [OH THE LARCENY, &quot;ANOTHER I'm going, yeah, I'm going, yeah, all the way. This is the world's We are about to attempt shot that we've ever done. Scientifically this is And what better place Than Las Vegas, baby. [OH THE LARCENY, &quot;ANOTHER Since the beginning, has been known for trick shots. And for the last has been to push the limits In 2009, we went to Kyle Field basketball shot. [CHEERING] Yes! What! But we didn't stop there. We went higher-- Yeah! --and higher. Holy cow! Then, in 2016, we and shot a ball off officially claiming the basketball shot. [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] Oh, did that go in? World record, baby! Finally, in 2018, the from an insane [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] [CHEERING] The only problem-- it wasn't us. Our record was broken And after five years, it's time and see what's possible. [UPBEAT MUSIC] Our team has been the record for quite some time. I saw the highest shot on the What used to be, hey, let's it's not like that anymore. There's a lot more prep work We physically took 18 people Our team started we could think of that Obviously, the height limitation We looked in Houston, Moab, Washington, DC, Miami, Chicago. We got a zillion nos before We went to the place that is Las Vegas. [UPBEAT MUSIC] (SINGING) --nothing like this. We decided to attempt this on the world-renowned To truly show you the let's start with our own shown here next to a standard Our Kyle Field shot Then our Oklahoma City The current record And if made, this shot breaking the current world (SINGING) You ain't We decided to hit up and How Ridiculous to get their If you had to give us odds It's over one in a million. Oh, gosh. It's got to be. I'm not going to lie to you. Our team's already planned it. So I feel like we have to at All things are possible. It's a bit of a You're going to put enough down If it's windy, How long are you guys I think we have the tower Is that enough? There is no way. If you do this, you guys people in the world. You have the Magnus The slightest spin at the top, away, just laterally, right? Vegas is super windy. It's just not going to happen. I thought we were after talking to Mark. Why did we do that? [OVERLAPPING SPEECH] If you feel like you're just come on, just dig Keep pushing. I will eat a basketball [OVERLAPPING SPEECH] Thanks, Mark, very helpful. The good news for us then we can try So good luck. Good luck, gentlemen. Thanks. Thanks a lot. [GROANING] Great. Let's do it. My role on this shoot to protect the rooftop. We designed and constructed net to catch the any damage to their roof. Nobody's done this before. So we're all kind of going be better off safe than sorry. This is what we pitched And they said, hey, we love it. You guys got the green light. After the art team they gave us the thumbs-up And we were on our way to The morning of our flight, he sends a text message. [CELL PHONE DING] Hey, by the way, I'm not going He was having monster headaches. And I thought it was just swing and it was like, look, you're causing headaches. Turned out to be a little What's up, guys? Went to the doctor with that and I do have a small tear in the back of my head. And he says it'll But I got to lay low. So I will not make the trip. But I believe in you guys. I'm doing great. I'm going to be fine here. Come on, baby, Let's go. How are we feeling right now? What time is it? Whoa. Is that good? It's 8:16 at home. [OVERLAPPING SPEECH] But here it's 6:16, We are currently setting If Derek and I don't I'll consider it a success. [LAUGHS] That's our bar for is getting blown off a roof? I ain't going to It's windy. So the first day that we got was, OK, this doesn't than Oklahoma City. That all changed when we got Oh, my gosh. That street is so in Everybody buckle up. Oh, gosh. 12-car pileup on the Vegas Strip falls from tower and lands right of a car carrying 13 puppies. It's a headline just So finally the day came. The goal is set up 856 that Ty is standing on. Ty's up there. He throws the very Here we go. Day one, first shot. You good, Chad? Yep. This is the world's And the ball did not Oh, dear. Ooh. Just about 50 yards that way. We're OK. We have time to recalibrate. So you'd have a ball then you'd have a ball kiss of the nearby hotel. The wind was just whipping. Chad and I both just like, there's no way. Like, this isn't That might-- you hit the hotel. Heads up, mate. A little right. Yikes. He's got a shot. Now it's right. That's on the street. Trent! We were missing that net We just had to ask, like, with us taking this And they gave us What happens first? Do we make the shot or Oh, you-- this is fun. I could do this all day. Day one, shutting Winds are getting too high, losing control of the balls. Day two is supposed Let's regroup. Let's come back out day two. We still have two full days. [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] Headed to n top, day two. Let's make a shot. Everyone was like, oh, day 5-mile-an-hour winds. It's going to be perfect. We're getting ready to go They come out and they're Our wind that was gusting to 8 miles an hour, 54-mile-an-hour gusts and Does it feel that Uh, it's pretty windy. [MUFFLED SPEECH] [BLOWING AIR] [LAUGHING] It's just so unpredictable. We had to wait for about Still didn't get great. But it was safe enough for us shooting. Wow, Wow! That's more than 22. Ty's up there. He throws the very And it was windy, which But of course, it was. And the ball went Oh, my god. The safety piece was this balancing act. It's like you know you only so you want to keep Because if you don't, you're Oh, that's going [THUNK] Yep. But it's a really That's not really wants to be in is off of 856-foot tower. Seeing those balls and knowing that you're it became a point where it I'm just not going to throw and then stop. I completely agree. That's just stupid. That doesn't make sense. And I was right there with him. I was kind of like, if we should keep doing this. It's not worth it to cause Yeah, and I'm saying Just locked that down. That cannot happen. That's a scary place that Ty was uncomfortable with. Being totally honest it was tense because we got of view. Ty and the guys up are seeing what the And we're like-- and are just seeing the Guys, we are And we're not going Let's just shoot the ball. The one that I tried to flirt And that's the one that went. I still don't think You have to-- You throw right the whole time. I was getting pretty frustrated. So I'm like, Ty, just Ball's in the air. Oh, boy. Oh, gosh. Oh, gosh. That was not good. Nope. I get it. You don't want to be but at the same time, that we weren't seeing the I kind of made the I do not want to Ultimately, there's who's feeling the weight of And I didn't feel like that Ty was the only I got to hand it to him. Coby stepped up. Coby was like, man, I want to try it. So when I stepped up OK, let me just give and see what happens, no right or wrong answer. So I let the first shot go. And shockingly-- Yes! --it got pretty close. Yes! Oh! So immediately I'm OK, we may have Let's stick with it. Second ball, did the and it landed in the street. Hit the street. Move the goal to the street! I probably shot-- I don't worth of basketballs that day. And by the end of really confident this We still, at this hit the goal, which This is not the Very quickly I hear what are we going to do And I'm like, I can't believe I think a big turning point it was meeting with They suggested a plan where we That would allow us to not have of those stray balls. I think we're just praying that And I feel like there's at [UPBEAT MUSIC] [ELEVATOR DINGS] If you're not feeling the this morning, at this Hey, guys, day three. Been at it for hence the day three. And I feel good about it. This is our best weather For the first time, I felt like I could tell We had way better I mean, there is zero wind. It's almost eerily quiet. I was actually supposed to leave about until we got to Vegas. I would loved to So I actually had to fly of the rest of the team. And so 2:00 was the deadline. Day three, in the morning, where I think there was a little like, when I do everything the ball goes relatively [UPBEAT MUSIC] [GROANING] Then the wind came back. It just felt like the most Team morale all across I know I look calm, but and you just kind of I think it was the So that's tough for the Probably the best way would be like taking the SAT It was just mentally taxing. You're focused every time. I will say, the one gave me a jolt of energy in his speech. And then when y'all He sends us the Great moments are born And that's what we That is what we've One shot. We've tried it a thousand But not this time! Not this shot! Today, we make it! Today, we break history and we Today we-- specifically guys are the greatest Come on, boys. We can do this. Now go out there and take it. I'm inspired. I'm inspired by leaders in the face of adversity. And with that don't think it's going to go in. But I'm going to shoot till and I got to leave. So let's do it, boys. Did you actually Uh, no. No, I didn't. I knew it. I didn't. Start shooting, go for the next Cody Bland is in there And he's like, hey, Just keep shooting. And I'm kind of like, great. But at this point, again, You have till 3:30, but the wind is crazy. We're back to square one-- You know, Tim's has kind of started to wear off. --until about 2:33, I think it I throw this ball off, I'm like, OK, Cory was laying down We kind of sat up, this looks pretty good. It isn't even on course And then, the last second-- About five seconds before I started feeling And knowing how much I cannot look at that shot and hand in it. He has purpose for Dude Perfect. And in that moment, To be able to pull that off It made me feel like, God's just not done [OH THE LARCENY, &quot;ANOTHER I'm going, yeah, I'm going. Let's go, TT! Let's go, T! This is the world's [SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC] Come on. Come on! [CHEERING AND YELLING] [OH THE LARCENY, &quot;ANOTHER (SINGING) to another level. [THUNK] [CHEERING AND YELLING] We got it! We got it! We got it! [OH THE LARCENY, &quot;ANOTHER (SINGING) --to another level. It's in! [CHEERING] Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! Let's go, baby! Yes! All it takes is one! I just want to give God, that was stupid, man. We freaking got it, dude. Telling the story, I start But it was such a relief in that nobody thought it was going in. Zero goal hits in And the one time we Yeah. That was awesome, man. Being able to celebrate being able to come together. I think that, in one of the biggest inspirations not just for us in the record, [CHEERING] [ZAYDE WOLF, &quot;HIGHER THAN HIGH&quot;] higher than we ever We're going up to [ELEVATOR DINGS] [CHEERING] [ZAYDE WOLF, &quot;HIGHER THAN HIGH&quot;] thought they could know. Whoa, oh, oh. It's all looking up now. I was so proud of Everybody worked so hard to It doesn't even It's a family. [CHEERING] As stupid as it might out there that, hey, these off buildings and making that ain't changing I can tell you one thing, it's here at Dude Perfect. And that means a lot. Official ball, for now, going TT. This one goes out This is for you guys. [CHEERING] It's fun to bring If How Ridiculous or anyone be our guest. It's really cool to is given to us for more The amount of control over Dude Perfect, over the is very little. But whatever God blesses successes that we to continue to point back to him And that's the way to continue to look at it a thing. Should someone signing No. Nah. If he ever comes here There you go. [CHEERING] [ZAYDE WOLF, &quot;HIGHER THAN HIGH&quot;] we won't stop. Dude Perfect.