Arthur Rubinstein's innate ease allowed him to acquire a vast repertoire and to interpret it with flair and vitality, but his never having undergone a long period of study with a major piano master had allowed his interpretations to grow erratic, even thoughtless, his brilliant technique to become inconsistent. In 1932, however, Rubinstein at last married and settled down, in Paris. It was time to stop and think. He studied his repertoire anew, adding to and subtracting from it, and he rebuilt his technique. This was an heroic undertaking for an artist well into his forties, especially 'one who already had enjoyed much success with the larger musical public. And it was fully justified because in due course it became apparent to connoisseurs, critics and other musicians that Rubinstein's amazing powers of interpretation and performance were at last being employed to the full. Now began his recognition as one of the major pianists of the 20th century. All the long series of Mazurkas, set down in 1938-39, show a balance, almost unique to this pianist, between spontaneous feeling and the mature consideration which these readings embody. Rubinstein's communicative fire is always apparent, in the rich, always personal tone he produces in the Mazurkas, capable of a vast diversity of nuance. The first thing Chopin wrote, when he was seven, was a Polonaise, another followed later that same year and a Mazurka in 1820. His last composition, published posthumously as Op.68 No.4, was again a Mazurka, and he wrote over 60 such pieces during his short life. There was no other genre to which he turned so often, and he used these deceptively small works as vehicles for an ongoing series of compositional experiments whose results affected many other aspects of his output. What principally interested Chopin about the Polish peasant's music were its modal and rhythmic ambiguities, which both complemented and further stimulated the harmonic and pianistic subtleties through which he expressed himself. Also, he was passionately devoted to his country. In one of his rare moments of verbal self-revelation he wrote, &quot;I am a real, blind Mazovian&quot;, and though he came to regard Paris as home, he invariably (like Bartok, stranded in a far more alien America) referred all values back to the standards set in his native land. There would be no mazurkas without Polish folk dances and Polish folk music. With his mazurkas, Chopin forged an unparalleled model of the musical stylisation of traditional, national, authentic folk repertory. Chopin composed mazurkas virtually throughout his life, from around 1825 (aged fifteen) to 1849. These miniatures came to form a weighty tome of the composer's most personal musical utterances, a lyrical 'journal' of his life. It is perhaps in the mazurkas, more than in any other works, that Chopin allows the listener into his &quot;heart's sanctuary&quot;. Pianistically uncomplicated, the mazurkas display an inexhaustible wealth of melodic invention and of harmonic, rhythmic and, above all, expressive nuances. They demand of the pianist at the same time an almost naive freshness and a mature mastery. When making the first recording, in 1938-39, of the complete set of mazurkas, their great interpreter, Artur Rubinstein, demonstrated to the record producers in the studio the steps of Polish folk dances, in order to show them the character of these works. And indeed, without an elementary knowledge of Polish folk music it is difficult to understand Chopin's mazurka idiom. Drawing on the Polish traditions of the folk mazurka, but also of the popular and stylised mazurka, the composer made direct reference to three folk dances which he knew well from numerous visits to the Polish countryside: the mazur, kujawiak and oberek. All three are in triple time and have a characteristic rhythm. Indispensable to the interpretation of these works is rubato-the use of free accelerations and decelerations. Chopin usually published mazurkas in sets of three or four to a single opus. His early works in the genre still display clear hallmarks of typical piano miniatures (small dimensions, symmetry of sections), while the late mazurkas turn into expansive 'dance poems', in which Chopin employs exceptionally refined harmonic means-even polyphony. END