REFIK ANADOL: Digital the movement that's enjoying and creativity with AI and so for the museums and And it's quantifiable because it's a new movement, it's a new reaction The art world has like centuries-old and it's this revolution. It's this renaissance we are all living in. KEVIN SCOTT: Hello. Welcome to Behind the Tech. I'm your host Kevin Scott. My co-host Christina Warren is out doing some really so it's just me today. Before I introduce our guest, anyone who has been watching over the past month is aware of the horrifying by Hurricane Helene One of the most devastated and western North Carolina, in As I've been delving more and of ceramics in my personal of the strongest concentrations in the country is right There are a bunch of who really could use your help and livelihoods back together Namely, those at East as well as individual and John Britt. We'll share their and anyone who is inclined to support would be in helping them get And we're still accepting &quot;Ask Me Anything&quot; episode. If you have questions for at behindthetech@microsoft.com. So on the podcast I met Refik at an event that of attending earlier this year. And one of the things at that event was Refik is an incredible in really adventurous I've been a big fan of his and what he is doing over the past few years as these possibilities for art and artists has been So I'm really delighted that and I'm really looking So let's dive right in. [ MUSIC ] Refik Anadol is an artist, director, and pioneer and machine intelligence. He's the director of Refik and a lecturer in UCLA's Anadol's projects consist of data-driven machine-learning colorful environments. His work addresses the that ubiquitous computing exploring how the perception and space are radically Anadol's immersive and and live audio-visual worldwide, transforming and creating a dynamic His work has been such as the Walt and the Dongdaemun Anadol holds a BA in photography in visual communication design as well as a second MFA from at UCLA. And I will say personally, So it is a real pleasure to And I think we're going to have because the intersection of art and artificial intelligence is a But maybe we can just about how it is you got and technology and where for first intersect. REFIK ANADOL: Absolutely. Kevin, first of all, for this wonderful moment. We had incredible conversations honored to share the journey So it is truly I would say I was eight years old in completely randomly, she brought home a Commodore, And it was a fascinating The first time there was a small booklet to very much basically And then I think the in love with, of course, games. I love games so much, and As a child, I think we always as positive as possible, And I watched my first dystopian Blade Runner at the same age, and I think there was the machines can become a or imagination part, and of architecture in Blade Runner, flying car, and android that these are not This is someone else's I still cannot forget And I didn't stop with the life and imagination. So grateful that in my undergrad it was a very beautiful Peter Weibel, which He was the founder of the and technology In his class, it's the to use software which is a very early language that I will say that at visualizing the sensors, which is making invisible/ and seeing literally to take a light point and And I think in that class I the idea of data can become that is a form of memory and that memory can take So since then, now 16 with heartbeat data, skin weather data, pretty much I believe can be a form of art. And that journey is Now I have a studio in we are 20 people, can speak And I was so grateful that I received the Microsoft I was at UCLA and that was to truly connect with academia science, technology KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, so I want about your journey as an it's really interesting. I think you and I had to computers. I think I'm older than you, but like it's a very I got one of these consumer and I was just fascinated but also really intrigued by how you could use this I was really into Dungeons &amp; I was -- and I also, at the to become a computer scientist. The thing that I when I was 12 years to be a comic book illustrator. But for reasons I don't even and older, I gravitated more but kind of the utilitarian So I just really loved using for other people to use. So how do you think it is that on or did the vector choose you? Or, I mean, these questions REFIK ANADOL: That's I think very similar, I felt that as a person, I of discovery and innovations. But more in the creative side I still remember finding an as inspiring as, This sharing moment But what I felt so to combine multiple elements, architecture, or most as soon as I start as canvas, for example. Because I think that architecture is an I believe that any form of architecture can become a the floor, the ceiling, because as soon as we liberate which means what happens if you and imagine this new that can disappear if you don't through algorithms and data that As soon as that created I couldn't stop imagining. And I feel like the future of because they can Of course, there's lots from Mother Nature, but also of like other imaginations. And since that And then the computation, in that means that I don't with the physical world even or write but I know how to compute geometrically and really living in digital And then on top of that, I'm so much, huge respect on in computer science, in other and respectfully looking how forward technology, and just and just blend it with is I think where and then learn programming, of it, computer graphics. I couldn't stop thinking about that buildings can dream and hallucinate one day So all this connected together KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, so the two to chat about later is, at an event together in a group were being asked to ponder the question And I definitely want to And I also want to talk about But before we do that, that this is what you wanted Did you have encouragement Did you have some concept that and make money, so I REFIK ANADOL: Yes. An amazing question because for I think breaking points. First of all, I'm truly because I have 14 So I grew up with like as the fundamental layer So I don't remember saying, because it felt always not learning what is my of that specific topic. And then on top of it, I mean, yeah, people say but it's actually And then when you learn about of life and so our So I never quit that And then I'm so grateful that in that I think I feel technology in that nobody stopped in the family. They just trusted that this So very grateful. But the financial part because generally speaking, the art world is a relatively for artists to create For many reasons, there's a museum world, and that's where the financial So I am an artist without meaning independent, which makes that I have to navigate in my own social media, which was a much more on top of the journey. But I find it so inspiring as a studio, we honestly openly that what happened, and that naturally grew. But I'm so grateful that, again, I come back to the Microsoft 2013, I knew that I I know that I'm not an alone of people exploring I know that as a human myself, I have a capacity of But if I become a team, of imagination, neuroscience, and so forth. That was always this And it started very But people who have been pioneers of technology, who have been creating about technology, they They directly understand that a about an idea, a dream, completely fit very well. And so I'm so grateful and all our supporters that grew very naturally but very grateful that KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, and I Yeah, stage one, it seems to figure out any sort of at all to do this And then once you figure that who the next question that I've got the real So basically being sponsored versus doing things where you have a very that you're operating in. And you seem to have but how tricky has that been? REFIK ANADOL: It is very, very. So first of all, I will be super like myself, the movement that's and creativity with AI, and so for the museums and And it's quantifiable because it's a new movement. It's a new reaction The art world has like centuries-old And it's this revolution. It's this renaissance happening But as an artist, I was so naturally saying this all the of the Internet, Web 1, Web I mean, naturally, that's as a form of imagination. So I think, there was this I would say, or a blind spot. But then as soon as the that bring people in Walt Disney Concert in time the MFA project, that she was also one of the And suddenly that that brought 100,000 that became a tangible idea. Or Casa Batllo project in Barcelona, 65,000 people. Or at MoMA, our show the largest audience with 38 minutes average viewing. And that's all I think made And as soon as they become an I think that really bonded the KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah. So let's talk about your work. Maybe we can start with one So you have this really that you're doing. Do you want to describe REFIK ANADOL: Yes. So this is truly So first of all, very grateful as a studio, we thought that we got so excited about with our knowledge and So as I mentioned, we We work with MoMA, I mean, they're amazing but there's only but there's so many So number one was how can we which is very hard I mean, an AI model I don't think even museums know I mean, museums are to preserve a painting, which is So there's a lot of distance So we just want to be an And second, I really want to and honestly the most complex of a museum in the age of not necessarily physically, that can see us, feel with different levels, can do an in real time, and also, curate and with neural networks. And doing great work also, such as nature, as I'm I believe that nature is the and the most inspiring How can we make AI research by giving back to the community, work with the pioneers and and even collect AI work? So we found that just a moment, because it's not only creating sharing learning and education, and also bringing other So I found that it's and even maybe ways So it's that joy and In Los Angeles, California, in a Frank Gehry building. I'm so excited and so happy KEVIN SCOTT: It's really about the community I think it's truly wonderful, I want to double-click One of the things I think there was this idea that because from analog to digital media, so much easier to preserve As soon as the bits were there, it's just trivially But I think we are kind of So the bits endure, but when you can sort of reduce of hardware to render to like play back a and your works are because they're these crazy And so, I do think the seems to me really, because imagine 100 years from to go run the bits on. REFIK ANADOL: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I totally agree. And by the way, in our so much beautiful the joy that you also enjoy And I completely agree with I'm a digital artist, but I So I didn't detach from the And I feel like it's a great to remind us how beautiful And instead of sort or saying just there's it's so beautiful to capture And I think -- especially, I asked this question a but could nature come to us? And that was when I realized that actually there's So we are traveling 16 and working with incredible such as the Yawanawa So they are teaching us how to Incredible feeling, when there around us, but their technology, of years in the forest. They show us these beautiful or maybe never discovered in There's so much discovery. And also what I found that, as soon as I think the AI models and also we learned -- so we were able to receive by asking the museums who have been preserving them. But the funny thing is, I mean they're but they never merged. So what we tried is what happens if this intellectually physical together, and then suddenly this about nature. And then suddenly it creates I mean, it's so from the physical world but to appreciate the physical KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, yeah, So, it's sort of hard to talk so sensual in nature to have an abstract conversation But I wonder, maybe to maybe you could sort of describe with a piece of art or that you couldn't do before or whatever the REFIK ANADOL: Yeah. I think that is a So it was 2016 when I was very first time, 1.7 million that has mostly And our curator was very and of course, as an archivist, For nine years, six to sort this data. It's very challenging. And as soon as we applied a very early, embedding I was shocked by the that 1.7 million of three-dimensional plottings. This was this moment of, okay, But this sculpture is seen and applied to humans' mind's and points reasoning that millions of And the second question if the machine can I see these questions all the Artists ask the question, I mean, that question now with to answer by using This can be nature, urban, I'm so obsessed with all they are topics that For example, nature. We were able to work from the Amazonia to any and train a model on that. And then suddenly, that remembers all the colors with infinite possibilities So I see that it's not back in time, inspired but now we have a thinking in the same context, but So I see that we have And, of course, we can And this time, the artwork which can be living works by heartbeat, brain signals, and we can give a different And then that can also By the way, I believe if one I don't think it is dry. It can be non-Newtonian. It can be ever-changing. So I love fluid In our work, we have that I am programming them They can be in any fluidity. They can remember they will predict the So, they become these like that are driven by the colors And plus music that we And then recently we are the last four years, that we were missing And as soon as we introduced suddenly there is which I'm calling it It's just kind of a new ever-changing and living So it's fascinating to KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah. Well, maybe this is a good point to start talking about what it is You've already said one thing and have historically that are outside of reality, you're making a thing that's But I guess, one of the questions there It gets back even to this thing that we were discussing earlier Because a lot of people, and it doesn't need to be AI but that we're discussing right I don't know what this means. Does this mean it's Does it mean that art is to become more vital And it's happened in as soon as someone deviates from what the canon is, this is kind of the end. So, I mean, maybe In your mind, why do What is the purpose? REFIK ANADOL: Incredible for the question because so first of all, I think, to me, art is humanity's And I feel that we as humans, we And that's what we found there. And I think that's the quest, in our genes, in our and centuries and more. And I think this is all evolving with other parts of And I think we are all artists. We are all basically artists. And what we do with our artistic and for everyone. And I also feel that when the idea touches both mind And I really find that because the mind is something We have soul concepts, And as humans, we have so So I feel like art is always in different and unexpected, And I really got so inspired for humanity, always and always But in this case, AI It truly can become an the most nearest material It really reflects us, our if you want, and And it's the first time that has a cognitive capacity, It's a fascinating to really imagine But I also feel that in my as I mentioned as a child, I never stopped joy, and hope to life. So that's always these and values and belief. So I use this technology to And I believe that also community around the idea. And also, I felt that to go the dark mode But I also felt that much with that? But what else can we create So, I found myself in with these beautiful moments. KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, I've been because people are so about the intersection I've been thinking a lot about And I think the only conclusion after reading a whole bunch to a bunch of artists is there for art. Some people have defined it like It's like art is what If you can't put something in a I think that's a bad But it strikes me that there's about art, which is, for me at that you are trying to express that just isn't another And it's in you, and and you must get it out. And it has value and or not anyone else sees it, But it can be enriched when and they sort of -- because out art, we seek out at what other people through their art and try that they're trying to express. What did they mean? What does this mean to me? And so, it just feels like If you sort of take that you have a human being who to express and you have another in them that needs to connect, So in a sense, like AI making with another AI, but I don't know that I care. REFIK ANADOL: Yeah, exactly. Totally agree with you. Totally agree. And there's a moment that you I feel like it's exactly where as you mentioned, I think I always believe it's I mean, I hope the common and our conscious model. And I feel like even -- yes, you mentioned maybe multiple Sure, multiple AIs can But do we have meaning Is it any form of imagination versus there's always this right, nature of the quest? And I feel like that's and infinite possibilities So I think the good news I of art making, I agree with to create also an output, to beautiful music, to like I don't think there's in our, I guess, capacity. But that's just enablers in this with the reasoning I mean, we've never had a tool We have all these amazing for human intellect, So I think it's very to push those new frontiers KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah. So what are you excited about What do you hope AI and what do you hope it to do artistically? REFIK ANADOL: Yeah, I think by this AI atelier concept. So even though respect with incredible resources, but I also like so much about where things are relatively small scale maybe, and innovation that we are right now working about some heroes, like for Guggenheim Museum. So we are experimenting imaginations maybe. But there's so much beauty in that more but try to find what else can Definitely, multi-modality is video, text, but also scent. As soon as we brought and there is this memory lane And it's so fascinating. And the other part I am so inspired recently is really how can we go beyond -- I respect that now the which is incredible, and it's But now I'm expecting what What happens -- like we try to prompt the of the movement of the of the space or So now we are experimenting of what else can we truly of nature that turns that are still reflecting I will say obsession with I will say, through these neural And then lastly, I hope to because it's really what to have these incredible tools, but they are the They are the breakthroughs. That means that artists breakthrough to make a new So can we help and imagine That's like I'm really how can we achieve this for more smaller-scale KEVIN SCOTT: And do you democratized fast Because I'm guessing one to overcome is the tools, and maybe this is still true are still technically than they need to be. REFIK ANADOL: Yeah. KEVIN SCOTT: Which can REFIK ANADOL: First of all, I mean, first of all, a massive open-source I learned from open-source for the field, and a massive that now we can really half of our team is saying I mean, imagine of the in the studio that that improved last one and We feel so empowered and or lack of knowledge. I mean, that feeling is turning into this beautiful The joy is incredible. And that's a huge for the community for sharing. And that's why we through our humble experiments. And I'm so happy to say I mean, now accessing an AI than a book. I mean, that's fascinating. I mean, that is just a that is there for It is accessible And that's, I think, fascinating I would say, more equal to and experience, and reasoning. So I'm so happy to say positive path of, I think, KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, and I that there is this open-source because I think a challenge if you want to be a painter, you buy some tubes of paint, you buy a canvas, and You probably won't be any but you can get started And that pattern is so well for so long that there about how to go get started. And so, I think, it's just super to try to share learnings and to and all of the building blocks to your toolkit and your It's just super, REFIK ANADOL: Thank you. And it really makes And again, a huge respect But this is all about and really demystify them. By the way, there is that last eight years, as soon as we have an installation we always put a process wall, of video or something where we demystify the the people who where data comes As soon as we put this artworks next to the artwork to make this safe and that I think they get much more and much more, much And this really makes me that we should just do it more, in an atelier and Again, as a professor, I can't It really creates KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah. Well, look, I would highly, of that because sometimes I'm Sometimes I actually like the than I like even the out of the other end of it. And I can love the thing that -- but I'm just fascinated Like how on earth did these that they made? It's just fascinating. REFIK ANADOL: Totally. And again, huge And, Kevin, I cannot imagine complex systems and And it's so, now I feel that that I'm loving, I mean, at the beginning, I don't know how but I remember opening instead that just dismantle the at how it works, right? I mean, a similar mindset to the incredible systems. And so far, it's really, really but just in different time KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, for sure. Look, I think it's everywhere. I've been doing a bunch of I guess it's been REFIK ANADOL: KEVIN SCOTT: Yeah, it's super of the oldest crafts, the oldest because it was one of that people needed. You needed cups to drink on and pots to cook in. But it really is, of it is just and still even though -- like this is the thing that gives me real You can even have a thing like on earth has been and you can still have novelty and people saying new that have not been said before that have never And so if it's true for that, it definitely will be REFIK ANADOL: I And, as we discussed in I was very fortunate with four years ago young that they've been painting with it's their graphical that they took the and then transformed into certain colors, And they have these incredible I have no idea how but they were painting And we were able as they requested And we were still enjoying so beautiful there for of practice, still relevant. And also, as you said, I when we trained these to raise funding to make their By the way, this there will be 1000 spiritual to celebrate their So that's where I felt physical context, but gracefully with the virtual world and into a value back It's a fascinating feeling. KEVIN SCOTT: It's awesome. Super, super cool stuff So maybe one last And I asked this of everyone and it's always a hard question on the podcast does So, outside of the in your professional life, REFIK ANADOL: Oh, great. So I have a huge, huge and together we have been So she is our compass, discovering new It's truly a joy of travel of borders and so forth. Truly travel across the world. It's a beautiful journey up to how incredible and also how incredible really understand And so, that's really joy. And on top of that, it's but my life truly changed for several weeks in Amazonia. There's this infinite And it's really beautiful that have their own beautiful to technology, like who they are is very special. And I really hope everyone and feel the true joy of It's something, I can in the most positive way. So that's a joy of fun. KEVIN SCOTT: That's amazing. Well, thank you so out of a busy schedule I'm just so inspired by what it to see you do more of it. REFIK ANADOL: No, Kevin, There were so many incredible and I'm honored to be here. And thank you for the KEVIN SCOTT: Awesome. [ MUSIC ] All right. What a great conversation I think you heard him and over again this And I don't know many people who have a more extraordinary So I think he has a really of creative fearlessness. So, despite whatever daunting be, he can see the possibility and couple them with a really to do stuff that I think to a huge number of people, just sort of given the large through some of his and what the critical reception and the popular reception It's just really extraordinary. And I think he's so early in really utilizing the full that he's a pioneer of, that of really extraordinary and his team in the future. So it was a real joy and to chat with him today. So I think that I want to, again, thank Refik Remember, you can send to behindthetech@microsoft.com out the show notes for a few of in North Carolina You can follow Behind the Tech on your favorite podcast out our full video See you next time.