Hello everyone, I am Margot and I am going to dive No matter how long I've been doing this, Really as much. It's very beautiful. Whether you're snorkeling or diving, and you can never get bored of that. I am very lucky to have found this job. If I make this sign, and if you are lucky enough, See you later. I saw a turtle, We work and we come out of the water every day Because we've seen really cool things. Wow. Welcome to Zanzibar! If I keep going, I know I'm going to die. They're going to kill us all. They have to go away. How much does it cost? 15,000 euros. We breathe air from above It's a whole other word in here. Do you remember where are Test it please. If we have to rush to town, Our full moons are important. We have the second biggest holidays It is my reputation that is at stake, so To organize this evening, It's very expensive, but it pays back. Many hotels are trying to do the same. Last week, a hotel organized the same party And guess what? If I'm having a party, It's not going to work. - That's my wife. - Antonio. - Are you from the United States? Wisconsin? I will never forget It was in the morning When we reached the top we saw this magnificent view, We then did the glory dance I remember a beautiful woman who came to my hotel She needs to pay me a lot of money I knew right away that When I first met him, He was the boss of Kendwa, with all its fancy side! No, that's not who I am Did you paint today? No. We call it the house of our dreams. Indeed, it is big. How big? Let's say 900 m2 of living spaces, Our room is 100 m2 for the same price, That is the luxury. Zanzibar. Til, now, I would say that I'll tell you in an hour. We are spoiled, we have a nice party, with nice vibes. The artists performed their show, You're pregnant, aren't you going to bed? No, the baby is up, he is dancing, Joy and good vibes win here! That's cardamom, No Woman No Cry This is Kodemba. In this neighborhood, That's where I lived, And this is where I used to take drugs Hi, how are you? - What is this? - A cocktail? Here, there are at least 9,000 people including 3,000 I was doing the same thing, I used to inject myself here. Hi, how are you? Shall we sit down? There is so much more to life When I read this book, I feel like it's about my story. I had a wife and children, she left me because I spent my time looking for drugs. I lost what was most important to me, but what I've truly lost is What does this cure represent for you? It's a lot. - How are you feeling? Why? I haven't taken drugs since this morning. Can you give me 1,000? No, I don't have any money. Do you want herbs too? No, I still have. This is my last joint. - Why are there only three? We arrived in front of the detox house. Leave me a little bit. I will need you. Don't worry, you'll be fine. Give me the courage. I was with her last time, she looked like a thin old lady, full of anxiety, stress and problems. Now look at her, she is really beautiful. Drugs are really bad. [Foreign language] We do this because it's dangerous, Things can fall apart back again, I am here to learn a new way of living because as you can see, I am pregnant. I have to choose between life and death. If I keep going, I know I'm going to die. After their safari, customers usually have Can you take a picture - It's really beautiful. - Hi Gordon, how are you? Today, I am taking you It has the largest number I hope you will like it. Sounds good! It's pretty cool, We wanted to do something different, to get out of the city There is a big elephant there. Be careful, he is approaching, They can live between 60 and 65 years if they are not hunted first. I have the impression more than us Tanzanians If we get arrested, They don't want journalists. You know, it's a very sensitive subject. What happens to the journalists They were arrested. So is it also risky for you Of course yes, I am taking the risk. Are all the villages we're passing Not for me, but the Government signed an agreement and so it looks like it. The Maasai are no longer allowed Some people were shot We call it Arabia, the land of the Arabs, They expropriate us and hunt animals. They chase lions with a helicopter Be careful, put your camera down, They work for them. You see the greenhouse, It is protected by electrical wires. I am worried, there is mud, Straight ahead and after the village, Two armed guards are behind the gate. They dry meat on the left When the rich people from the Gulf arrive, to cook for them and all. It's not that fancy for a royal family. Here it's the staff, I'm going to show you. It's here at the top. It's the green roof up there. When you take your picture, They have powerful cameras I have a lot to say. I will continue to speak, Do you trust the international community Of course, I don't trust my government. I can show you a picture It's a bird that's still alive. You see, some of them are dressed He's in his car They feel good after that, when they shoot at them For us Maasai people, of innocent animals that After that, they bring in their planes This is the jet He was one of our leaders, This man refused to move his herd. He said, "No, it's my land," Because he was resisting, I paid for the hospital. I stayed for a year and was handcuffed I spent 3,000 euros to pay for the trial. It made us very poor. I don't understand, it's my land, and I am the one who has to pay, We want to ask the white people to help us defend ourselves because if not, They have to go, Let them leave our country. It is our land - How much does it cost? Pick any stone and we'll make it for you. Do you want tanzanite? - How much is this one? Good morning. We have customers United States, Germany, Thailand, China, India, and Italy. Did you have French costumers before us? I had one last year. I think he bought 20 stones. A stone like this was worth This used to be a Maasai land. That's why you always see Maasai people. You see, they have big cars like these. This very expensive 4x4. Look at this house, Yes! That is too small. - Is it too small for you? I want a bigger house to live Come in, it's my house. I live here with my dad. Do you want to see me with my miner fit? Sometimes people die because of fights. Some pull out guns to steal the stones. Did you have any problems? Yes, I've had problems. - Do you see these scars? These are the results Look at this, it's a stab wound. I am suffering, but I know that one day I will be rich. That is my dream. There are over 6,000 people digging. They come at night - Do you have to pay for a license? You have to pay 200 euros per year There were kids there. Are they allowed to work here? No, it's forbidden. The government does not want because they are not strong enough They go there secretly, and sometimes spend 24 hours there. It seems crazy, but they do it without eating or sleeping. Good evening. What are you doing? We're going to get tanzanite. How long have you been doing this? I have been working here for five years. - You look young. Wait, don't move too fast. It's very hot in here, but we use oxygen, we got used to it. We're in a whole other world. We breathe air from the above world One of the children had luck that evening. He just found a rock on the ground, It certainly fell out of a miner's pocket. It is a small stone, We're making marks there, then, we'll use the jackhammer. Take care of that point. The mix of heat and dust We have to go up. This is where miners sell The prices here are very low. They increase in Arusha, South Africa, France, the USA. The prices are skyrocketing there. Do you buy from children? Yes, I just bought them like every day. I just bought this. I am going to sell them in Arusha. It is a fatality. It's the only way they can survive because some of them nor a place to sleep. We don't go to school anymore. Why? We were not allowed to continue How old are they? 10 years old. 14 years old. 16 years old. 15 years old. 15 years old. Why are you working here? That is life. I haven't seen my parents Life is hard every day in here. You have to fight to find a way to eat. Have you seen where I live? Where are your parents? I was born here. My mom left a long time ago She did not come back. - And your dad? Mom Chantal! Hello. Hi, how are you? It's so good to see you. How are you? When alive, they bring bad luck, because they are attacked, They cannot defend themselves They die in excruciating suffering, Because they cut off their arms and legs to make lucky charms. He can play quietly with his friend. Besides, he looks delighted, He is happy. We rarely see an albino child smile. They are often very sad. It is the third murder of albinos That's sugar. 15 kilos, you can no longer say that His name is Tito Madiricha. Look at his arm. The killer tried to pull this child He removed a large piece of skin He tried to kidnap him, but didn't succeed and shouting for help. I miss my parents. I miss them. Ever since he left, I think about him all the time I close this door like that. If someone tries to get inside, By the time the person gets the children will be behind the gate and I would have time to pick up If they manage to break the front door they won't know how to get through because that one's made of iron. Hi, how are you? The government mostly does not want This camp is a way to make sure but that only hides the problem. Psychologically, you can see They want to be free, they want to go out, to go back and live with their families, but people are hunting and killing them. That is the problem.