I would say beyond the person of our Lord greatest influence on my life, and that influence intense over the last 50 years or so for sure. Paul, the author of 13 of the New Testament of Acts and the dominant figure for most of stage after our Lord ascends back into heaven. He has been, for me, a model of ministry, He is the inspired author of books that shape the gospel and it's depth, and height, and He is, in my mind, the one I follow as he &quot;Follow me - &quot; he said &quot; - as I follow Christ.&quot; His conversion is one of the great stories 9th chapter of Acts - Acts, chapter 9 - we of the world, the conversion of a man named Paul. So great was the transformation that it apparently And so we are told in chapter 13, verse 9, The importance of his conversion is indicated book of Acts. Not only this portion of the 9th chapter, the 22nd chapter of the book of Acts as he again in the 26th chapter of Acts. So here in chapter 9, we see this amazing us again in chapter 22, and again in chapter The conversion of this man was the pivot on it was fitting that because of the massive unique conversion because he was such a unique a Pharisee; by citizenship, a Roman; by education, He became a missionary, a theologian, an evangelist, a leader, a thinker, a statesman, a fighter, It would be hard to imagine that there has And I believe as we approach the account of that we've already met him in the book of We met him back in chapter 7 and verse 58, synagogues, a man named Stephen had preached of the Old Testament and culminating in the the Lord Jesus Christ whom the Jews had betrayed They rushed on him to stone him to death; it says in verse 58, &quot;They laid their robes And chapter 8, verse 1 begins: &quot;Saul was in In fact, I told you at the time that he was of Stephen, that's why the cloaks were laid And on that day, a great persecution began all scattered throughout the regions of Judea Saul was the great persecutor of the early First, they were scattered into Judea and and we saw how the gospel went into Samaria, After looking at the ministry of Philip in read now, Saul. I believe a bleeding Stephen's words and demeanor career for a young fire-breathing Pharisee becoming history's most effective evangelist. Let me tell you a little about Saul - and bit of historical narrative. Saul's home was in Tarsus, Tarsus. Tarsus was a city of Asia Minor right on the Today, it would be on the border of Syria In those days, Tarsus was a very distinguished It was distinguished for its university. It was one of the three great universities The other great universities were in Athens It was ranked, along with those two, like Its crowded wharfs were on the Sidonis River people coming and going, cargo as well. Saul's father was a Roman citizen, but a Jew. He passed on the priceless assets of Judaism No doubt, his father was also a Pharisee and Saul was so very Jewish that he could say testimony in Philippians, chapter 3 - these of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin Hebrew of Hebrews - &quot; that means completely a Pharisee.&quot; He covered all his bases in Judaism. &quot;As to zeal, a persecutor of the church. As to the righteousness, which is in the law, Very devout Jew. In keeping with the Jewish tradition, every Saul was taught to weave cloth out of black could be assembled together, sewn together, This was a common industry in Tarsus. At about 13, when a Jewish boy would become that at that time, Saul was packed off to Why did he go there? Because his family wanted him to study Judaism was to study under a teacher named Gamaliel. Gamaliel was so elevated and so revered as the beauty of the law. That was to say that the law was never more Gamaliel. So Saul would sit under the teaching of Gamaliel. This would include years of memorizing the answer, arguing and debating back-and-forth He would become expert in Judaism, expert While he was in Jerusalem during that time that he ever met Jesus. If he had met Jesus in his earthly ministry, It doesn't seem possible to me that he could heard him personally and not made reference It is also possible that before Jesus actually and returned to Tarsus. And if he returned after having studied under a critical leader in a synagogue. He would have grave responsibility there as He was very rigid, very zealous, very legalistic, This rigid young Saul would have then been religion in the city of Tarsus to advocate and there were many Jews in Tarsus. However, by the time of Stephen, he's back We don't know what brought him back, but he And why is he so angry? Because he is a Hellenistic Jew. He is a Jew from outside Israel. And this man, Stephen, has been circulating and preaching Jesus Christ. Stephen himself was a Hellenistic Jew, a Jew a large number of Hellenistic Jews to come And there are converts, there are converts; in Jesus are saying that He died to pay the to provide salvation; and they're preaching They're getting more aggressive, the church and he is infuriated. He may have tried to argue with them in synagogues. He may have tried to refute them. He certainly tried to silence Stephen, not He then rose by his sheer force of leadership to stamp out Christianity. Years later, he said this - it's recorded I ought to do many things in opposing the Jerusalem. I not only shut up many of the saints in prison they were put to death, I cast my vote against synagogues and tried to make them blaspheme. And in raging fury against them, I persecuted This is Saul. Luke says it simply, &quot;Saul laid waste the And that back in chapter 8 at the beginning, rampaging through a garden, or an army devastating After successfully clearing Jerusalem of those true religion of Judaism, he himself decided It wasn't enough that they left Jerusalem; wherever they were. He heard that a group of them had gone to religious elites to go to Damascus, and that's Now Saul, still breathing threats and murder the high priest and asked for letters from if he found any belonging to the Way, both Jerusalem. He launches a fierce campaign, chasing down a raid, if you will, on Damascus. He was like a warhorse who has the scent of of new conquering. By the way, the word &quot;breathing&quot; here literally Not breathing out threats and murder; breathing What does it mean? His very life breath was slaughter against He lived to arrest and kill Christians. His sin, not a lot different than Haman, the exterminate all the Jews. Saul wouldn't be satisfied until the Christians All of the mathetes , all of the learners, He was after them all: &quot;So he, wanting to Not just in Jerusalem, but everywhere they Eradication was his objective, and this led the world. He was so highly respected among the Jewish to carry his war to distant cities. That's what it says in chapter 26, verse 12, and exterminate Christians. The high priest, as president of the Sanhedrin, internal affairs were concerned, and his authority the one who had absolute authority to give With that authority, he takes off for Damascus. Damascus in ancient times was called by one emeralds.&quot; Why? Because it was a lovely white city in a green Orientals used to call Damascus &quot;the paradise The city of Damascus predated Abraham, yet There was a large Jewish community there. It is estimated by historians that there were - 66 A.D., year of our Lord - 20,000 of them Damascus had a number of synagogues with so Its geographical location was something like inland from the seacoast, right in the corner Turkey today; about 160 miles north from Jerusalem. It was, in ancient times, the capital of Syria. It is estimated there were 150,000 people And it is likely that the Christians there that the scattered Christians went there and It was how it all started. But it is very likely that they had not yet of Christians didn't leave the temple. And it is also likely that there was a Christian was leading these newly converted Jews, and We'll meet him a little later in verse 10. Paul says about him that he was a devout man of all the Jews which dwelt there. So he was significant leader in the city; in that early beginning group of Christians. Perhaps also, there were believing refugees But nonetheless, Paul got the word there were They are identified - please look back at They are identified as &quot;belonging to the Way, That was an early term to describe Christianity. Paul refers to it also in his testimony in That is very likely a sarcastic designation that through Jesus Christ was the only way Maybe this is mockery like the word Christian that was a term of disgust: &quot;little Christs.&quot; In this term, they are mocked as those who to our Lord's words: &quot;I am the way, the truth, No man comes to the Father but by Me.&quot; Anybody who was associated with the narrowness was fair game for Paul, and he would find make them prisoners and bring them back to Now that lets you know that he didn't go alone. He went with some kind of police, some kind They were to be brought back to Jerusalem, To be tried as heretics, blasphemers; and punishment by the Sanhedrin; and, perhaps, From Jerusalem to Damascus, you just basically I've taken that route a few times in my life The ruins of Damascus are astounding to see, You would go north through Judea, then through the city of Damascus. Maybe along the way through Samaria, you might was happening under Philip, as recorded in and Peter and John came, and the Spirit came, by Philip, and people were being saved. Maybe he heard of that; maybe he didn't. But he is loaded with papers for Damascus. Historians tell us that caravans usually took Armed with his commission from the high priest they almost reached the walls of Damascus, And then we come to verse 3: &quot;As he was traveling, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around voice saying to him, 'Saul, Saul, why are And he said, 'Who are You, Lord?' And He said, 'I am Jesus whom you are persecuting. But get up and enter the city, and it will &quot;The men who traveled with him stood speechless, Saul got up from the ground, and though his leading him by the hand, they brought him And he was three days without sight, and neither Serious change of plans. What have we here? He ran right into the Lord Jesus Christ, and I want to consider it under four simple features. First, a divine contact, then divine conviction, Just a way to break it down. The divine contact comes in verse 3: &quot;As he Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven I don't need to remind you again. Here's another illustration, another illustration from Ethiopia who encountered Philip because according to the will of God. This, again, is how salvation happens. It is always the sovereign will of God. It is always His purpose. It comes about by His power and His determination. This is a direct sovereign act of God on Saul. Now I will admit that all people who are saved but not all of them have this kind of experience. I certainly didn't; neither did you. God calls, but He usually calls in a still, But in the case of Saul, He called with a Now we could add an awful lot to verse 3 because But to do that, I'd have to take you through yet. But let me borrow some things from those two gives his testimony when he's called into And if we borrow from what we learn in 22 Those chapters tell us it was about noon, And if you've ever stood beneath of the glare understand that it is a bright sun. But there was something far brighter because shown above the brightness of the sun, shining him, a light brighter than the sun. The sun is bright, but distant. This is in their midst. The whole group then collapses to the ground We are also told later in the book of Acts &quot;It was a light - &quot; in this verse it also miraculous, supernatural, transcending the Chapter 26 where the testimony of Paul, again, remained flat on the ground.&quot; Chapter 22, verse 9 says, &quot;They heard the understand.&quot; It says they didn't understand. They couldn't articulate or distinguish words. This is similar to what we read in John 12:29. You may remember John 12:29. &quot;So the crowd of people who stood by and heard were saying an angel had spoken to Him.&quot; Heaven had spoken there to Christ, and the it. Well, this was a similar situation. The others are stunned, crawling around, trying And in their lack of clarity, they're very The light breaks through to Saul and he sees How do you know he sees Jesus? Well, go down to verse 7. &quot;The men who traveled with him stood speechless, no one.&quot; But that's not Paul's testimony. Go down to verse 17: &quot;Ananias later departs hands on Saul says, 'Brother Saul, the Lord enough. The Lord appeared to him on the road. Down in verse 27, Barnabas took hold of him, them how he had seen the Lord on the road. And in his own testimony in chapter 22, and 'The God of our fathers has appointed you One and to hear an utterance from His mouth.'&quot; Paul saw the Lord. You say, &quot;Well, what does that mean?&quot; I can't go beyond what Scripture says. He saw the Lord. First Corinthians 15:8, he talks about the of all, He appeared to me,&quot; or, &quot;He appeared He saw the glorified Christ. He saw the transcendent Christ coming out I think this is kind of a glorious sequel, Stephen saw heaven open and he saw Jesus standing Remember, we saw that at the end of chapter He saw the Lord Jesus next to God in heaven. Saul stood by and saw, stood by when Stephen sees the glorified Christ. The heavens are opened once more and this blazing glory of the same person Stephen saw. And Stephen's prayer is answered. Do you remember Stephen's prayer? &quot;Lord, lay not this - &quot; what &quot; - sin to their Which is to say, &quot;Forgive them for this.&quot; The Lord is about to forgive the one who led So that's the contact. God sovereignly makes contact with the sinner sovereign regenerating power. Not always this dramatically, but always this The salvation of anyone is totally initiated Saul was going one way with no idea of turning him around: divine contact. And then we see in verse 4 the divine conviction. This is very interesting: divine conviction. In bringing a person to salvation, there is there is the conviction of sin. And where there is genuine salvation, there And verse 4 says, &quot;He fell to the ground and why are you persecuting Me?'&quot; He doesn't know what hit him, obviously. He is laying at the feet of his conqueror. He is in the right position, you might say, In Luke's writings, the repetition of a name &quot;Martha, Martha.&quot; &quot;Jerusalem, Jerusalem.&quot; &quot;Simon, Simon.&quot; Here, &quot;Saul, Saul.&quot; There's an emphatic nature to that repetition: For what reason?&quot; Remember in John 15:25, Jesus said, &quot;They &quot;Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this?&quot; This is a thrilling statement. I need to just take it apart for a minute. &quot;Why are you persecuting Me?&quot; Well, wait a minute. Jesus wasn't even around, He was back in heaven. But our Lord identifies for us this very significant is to persecute Him, that He is inseparable He is bound together with all the members directed against us is a blow that falls on He is truly identified with us. Persecuting us is persecuting Him. Saul was delivering blows to Jesus. Later on in his life, he would gladly say, for Him. I bear in my body the marks of Christ.&quot; Saul learned the great truth that he soon body of Christ is a member of Christ, is one And if one believer is touched on earth, that That's how identified we are with Him. Truly, He bears our griefs and carries our Saul was persecuting Jesus when he persecuted He is hit with the real issue; you've got When God initiates salvation, immediately real issue is stated here: &quot;You are persecuting Why?&quot; That is the issue of conviction that is essential. &quot;Why are you treating Jesus the way you're There are a lot of sins in the world, but of the sin of rejecting Jesus Christ. The issue for conviction is not that a man or deceptive, or whatever else, or immoral; is rejection of Christ. First Corinthians 16:22 again, &quot;If any man , he's cursed, damned. This is always the issue. The work of the Holy Spirit, John 16, our because they believe not on Me.&quot; That is the crime of all crimes. That is the unpardonable sin, the unforgivable And Saul is literally smashed with that indictment: That's the conviction that has to reside in Now that leads to the conversion, the divine This is, again, a very abbreviated account. But verse 5 records, &quot;And he said, 'Who are Something dramatic has happened: &quot;Who are He's not yet even sure who he's looking at. He'd never seen Jesus before. But even if he had seen Jesus before, this was not the same in His glorified form. But he quickly finds out that he has been He is now acknowledging that He is Lord: &quot;Who And He said, &quot;I am Jesus - &quot; and chapter 22, persecuting, the very One you've been persecuting.&quot; I would say that Jesus has captured Paul's fear of conviction, and presented the truth You say, &quot;Now wait a minute. That's not enough to be saved to say, 'I'm It's not enough even to say, &quot;Lord, that's You're right. But can I help you a little? Paul (Saul) knew very well the Christian gospel. He was a highly educated theologian. It was because of the heresy that he was killing He knew what they were saying. He knew they were proclaiming this man as This man is God's chosen sacrifice for sin. This man rose from the dead. This man has been anointed by God as the Righteous And I'm very confident that he did not forget at the end of chapter 7, that this one they title, and that Stephen had said, &quot;I see Him, of the throne of God in heaven.&quot; No, all the parts were already in his mind. But up to this point, for him it's heresy. It's heresy, blasphemy. And they claimed that He had risen from the The horrible truth captures his soul. Jesus is alive. He is the Son of God. He is the Messiah. He is the One from glory who was standing And I think all the bloodshed must have drowned He was shattered, penitent, broken, now lying His heart is broken in repentance and sorrow, His conversion was shocking, sudden. All his doubts were erased and he knew the Paul's conversion has baffled people. Renan, the French atheist, said it was an from the journey, eyes inflamed by the hot Paul's hallucinations. Other writers say it was a thunderstorm that because he felt so much guilt for what he A very popular view is that he suffered from Dr. Klausner writes, &quot;Some epileptics have been Augustine, St. Bernard, Savana Rolla, Beam, Swedenborg, as Great, Pascal, Rousseau, and Dostoevsky.&quot; Was this an epileptic seizure? Ridiculous. Saul cried out, &quot;Who are You, Lord?&quot; The answer came back, &quot;I am Jesus.&quot; He used His personal name, the name given world because Jesus means &quot;Jehovah saves.&quot; The battle was over. The battle was over. It had been a very difficult battle for Saul. He had been kicking against the goads. What does that mean? A goad was any sharp, pointed instrument which use them to stab an ox to keep him moving. In fact, Shamgar in Judges slew, I think it's What does it mean to kick against the goads? It means to just inflict pain on yourself He was literally bashing his own conscience You can't fight God, rebel against God, make So all of this is just to tell us of this In first contact, God's sovereign grace; conviction He responds in humble penitence, and I believe That becomes obvious as the story goes on. A good way to understand the conversion part - and I'll just take a minute to do this - at Here Paul gives a testimony to Timothy: &quot;I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has strengthened me into service, even though I was formerly aggressor. Yet I was shown mercy because I acted ignorantly more than abundant, with the faith and love It is a trustworthy statement, deserving full world to save sinners, among whom I am foremost Yet for this reason I found mercy, so that demonstrate His perfect patience as an example life. Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, ever. Amen.&quot; That's his testimony. That's the internal testimony. We see the external story in this 9th chapter. Back to Philippians 3; more about the internal, He says this, Philippians 3:7, &quot;Whatever things for the sake of Christ. More than that, I count all things to be lost Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered rubbish so that I may gain Christ, and may of my own derived from the Law, but that which which comes from God on the basis of faith, and the fellowship of His sufferings, being attain to the resurrection from the dead.&quot; First Timothy 1, Philippians 3, we have the Proof of that conversion comes really fast. How do you know he was converted there? I'll give you the proof; it's in his testimony Chapter 22, he's giving his testimony again are You, Lord?' And He said to me, 'I am Jesus the Nazarene And those who were with me saw the light, of the One who was speaking to me. And I said, 'What shall I do, Lord? What shall I do, Lord?' And the Lord said to me, 'Get up and go into that has been appointed for you to do.'&quot; How do you know he was converted? What's the first response of a true conversion? Submission, confessing Him as Lord. He had a new master: &quot;Master, Lord, what do He calls Him Lord. He calls Him Lord, as everyone must do is He called Him Lord. He recognized the truth that Jesus is Lord. You don't make Him Lord; He is Lord. Chapter 10 of Acts, verse 36: &quot;The word which through Jesus Christ - He is Lord of all.&quot; Conversion was immediate, absolutely immediate: What do you want me to do?&quot; Verse 6: &quot;Get up and enter the city and it'll The men who traveled with him stood speechless, Saul got up from the ground, though his eyes And leading him by the hand, they brought He is broken, devastated, shattered, melted This is how salvation works. Supernatural divine sovereign contact, conviction conversion into a submissive follower of a And there's one final component: the divine Verse 9: &quot;He was three days without sight, What did he do? What did he do for three days? I'll tell you what he did; he communed with The last thing he had seen before he went of Jesus. That sight dominated his now sightless eyes. It was a blindness that I would think was of light. Not the blindness of looking into the darkness of looking into the brilliance of a blazing It was said of an astronomer, who made the sun, that his blindness was not the blindness Great guilt weighed him down. He had a lot to think about for three days, He knew nothing about his future. He didn't know who he was anymore. He didn't know what he was supposed to do. This was total devastation of everything he he had considered precious became rubbish. Salvation was sudden, but its depth are often He is now stunned; he is helpless; he is friendless. He has friends who are now enemies, and enemies For three days, he communed with his Lord. This is a magnificent picture of salvation It is sudden, it is explosive, it is a miracle work, that conviction of rejecting Christ and saying, &quot;Lord, what will you have me to And then that contemplation and communion Well, that's the beginning. Much more to come about even this encounter Father, we are so grateful, again, to You Again, as we were talking about it this morning, thing about salvation, about sin, about judgment, Here's just another encounter, and yet such Lord, I pray that even tonight, there might grace stop dead in their tracks and shine eyes. Make Christ known to them, and may they realize before Him in loving submission and say, &quot;Lord, And then, Lord, from that moment on, may they their understanding of this divine miracle. Again, we thank you for a wonderful day today, Continue to bless us, even as we enjoy fellowship We'll thank You in our Savior's name. Amen.