I was here four years ago, and I remember, at the time, that the talks weren't put online. I think they were given a box set of DVDs, which they put on their shelves, (Laughter) And actually, Chris called me &quot;We're going to start putting them online. And I said, &quot;Sure.&quot; And four years later, it's been downloaded four million times. So I suppose you could multiply that to get the number And, as Chris says, there is (Laughter) (Applause) Don't you feel? (Laughter) So, this whole event to me doing another one (Laughter) Al Gore spoke at the TED conference and talked about the climate crisis. And I referenced that So I want to pick up from there because I only had 18 minutes, frankly. (Laughter) So, as I was saying -- (Laughter) You see, he's right. I mean, there is a major and I think if people don't believe it, (Laughter) But I believe there is which is as severe, which has the same origins, and that we have to deal with And you may say, by the way, &quot;Look, I'm good. I have one climate crisis, (Laughter) But this is a crisis of, though I believe that's true -- but a crisis of human resources. I believe fundamentally, as many speakers have said that we make very poor use of our talents. Very many people go having no real sense or if they have any to speak of. I meet all kinds of people who don't think Actually, I kind of divide the world Jeremy Bentham, the great once spiked this argument. He said, &quot;There are two types those who divide the world into two types and those who do not.&quot; (Laughter) Well, I do. (Laughter) I meet all kinds of people They simply go through their lives They get no great pleasure They endure it rather than enjoy it, and wait for the weekend. But I also meet people who love what they do If you said, &quot;Don't do this anymore,&quot; they'd wonder what you're talking about. It isn't what they do, it's who they are. They say, &quot;But this is me, you know. It would be foolish to abandon this, because it speaks And it's not true of enough people. In fact, on the contrary, I think And I think there are many And high among them is education, because education, in a way, dislocates very many people And human resources they're often buried deep. You have to go looking for them, they're not just lying around You have to create the circumstances And you might imagine but too often, it's not. Every education system in the world and it's not enough. Reform is no use anymore, because that's simply improving What we need -- and the word's been used is not evolution, but a revolution in education. This has to be transformed (Applause) One of the real challenges Innovation is hard, because it means doing something for the most part. It means challenging things that we think are obvious. The great problem for reform is the tyranny of common sense. Things that people think, &quot;It can't be done differently, I came across a great quote recently who I thought you'd be pleased (Laughter) He said this in December 1862 I ought to explain that I have no idea We don't teach (Laughter) We suppress it. (Laughter) No doubt, something fascinating which the Americans among us But he said this: &quot;The dogmas of the quiet past The occasion and we must rise with the occasion.&quot; I love that. Not rise to it, rise with it. &quot;As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. We must disenthrall ourselves, and then we shall save our country.&quot; I love that word, &quot;disenthrall.&quot; You know what it means? That there are ideas which we simply take for granted the way things are. And many of our ideas have been formed, not to meet the circumstances but to cope with the circumstances But our minds and we have to disenthrall ourselves Now, doing this is easier said than done. It's very hard to know, by the way, And the reason (Laughter) Let me ask you something How many of you here That's not what you take for granted, Are there any people here Great. Now, those over 25, could you put your hands up Now that's a great deal of us, isn't it? Ask a room full of teenagers Teenagers do not wear wristwatches. I don't mean they can't, they just often choose not to. And the reason is we were brought up those of us over 25. And so for us, you have to wear something to tell it. Kids now live in a world and the time, for them, is everywhere. They see no reason to do this. And by the way, you don't need either; it's just that you've always done it My daughter never wears a watch, She doesn't see the point. As she says, &quot;It's a single-function device.&quot; (Laughter) &quot;Like, how lame is that?&quot; And I say, &quot;No, no, (Laughter) &quot;It has multiple functions.&quot; (Laughter) But, you see, there are things A couple of examples. One of them is the idea of linearity: that it starts here and if you do everything right, you will end up set Everybody who's spoken at TED or sometimes explicitly, that life is not linear; it's organic. We create our lives symbiotically as we explore our talents in relation to the circumstances But, you know, we have become obsessed And probably the pinnacle for education I think we are obsessed Certain sorts of college. I don't mean you shouldn't go, or go now. Maybe they go later, not right away. And I was up in San Francisco There was this guy buying a book, I said, &quot;What do you do?&quot; And he said, &quot;I'm a fireman.&quot; I asked, &quot;How long &quot;Always. I've always been a fireman.&quot; &quot;Well, when did you decide?&quot; Actually, it was because at school, (Laughter) He said, &quot;But I wanted to be a fireman.&quot; And he said, &quot;When I got my teachers didn't take it seriously. This one teacher didn't take it seriously. He said I was throwing my life away if that's all I chose to do with it; that I should go to college, I should that I had great potential and I was wasting my talent to do that.&quot; He said, &quot;It was humiliating. It was in front of the whole class But it's what I wanted, I applied to the fire service You know, I was thinking just a few minutes ago when you because six months ago, I saved his life.&quot; (Laughter) He said, &quot;He was in a car wreck, and I saved his wife's life as well.&quot; He said, &quot;I think he thinks (Laughter) (Applause) You know, to me, human communities depend not a singular conception of ability. And at the heart of our challenges -- (Applause) At the heart of the challenge is to reconstitute our sense of ability This linearity thing is a problem. When I arrived in L.A. I came across a policy statement -- very well-intentioned -- which said, &quot;College No, it doesn't. (Laughter) It doesn't. If we had time, (Laughter) Kindergarten begins in kindergarten. (Laughter) A friend of mine once said, &quot;A three year-old (Laughter) (Applause) They're three. But as we just heard in this last session, there's such competition now to get to the right kindergarten -- that people are being interviewed Kids sitting in front you know, with their resumes -- (Laughter) Flicking through and saying, (Laughter) (Applause) &quot;You've been around (Laughter) &quot;You've achieved nothing -- commit. (Laughter) Spent the first six months (Laughter) See, it's outrageous as a conception. The other big issue is conformity. We have built our education systems This is something Jamie Oliver There are two models One is fast food, The other is like Zagat where everything is not standardized, they're customized to local circumstances. And we have sold ourselves and it's impoverishing as much as fast food is depleting (Applause) We have to recognize One is that human talent People have very different aptitudes. I worked out recently at about the same time (Laughter) It worked out for Eric, (Laughter) In a way -- it did not for me. I could not get this thing to work no matter how often It just wouldn't work. (Laughter) But it's not only about that. It's about passion. Often, people are good at things It's about passion, and what excites And if you're doing the thing time takes a different course entirely. My wife's just finished writing a novel, and I think it's a great book, but she disappears for hours on end. You know this, if you're doing an hour feels like five minutes. If you're doing something five minutes feels like an hour. And the reason so many people is because it doesn't feed their spirit, it doesn't feed their energy So I think we have to change metaphors. We have to go from what is essentially a manufacturing model, which is based on linearity We have to move to a model that is based more We have to recognize that human flourishing it's an organic process. And you cannot predict All you can do, like a farmer, under which they will begin to flourish. So when we look at reforming it isn't like cloning a system. There are great ones, There are many great models. It's about customizing and personalizing education And doing that, I think, because it's not it's about creating in which people develop but with external support Now in this room, there are people who represent in multimedia, in the Internet. These technologies, combined with the extraordinary provide an opportunity And I urge you to get involved in it because it's vital, not just to ourselves, But we have to change to an agricultural model, where each school can be That's where children experience life. Or at home, if that's what they choose, to be educated There's been a lot of talk about dreams And I wanted to just very quickly -- I was very struck recovering old poems. I wanted to read you from W. B. Yeats, He wrote this to his love, Maud Gonne, and he was bewailing the fact that he couldn't really give her And he says, &quot;I've got something else, He says this: &quot;Had I the heavens' embroidered cloths, Enwrought with gold and silver light, The blue and the dim and the dark cloths Of night and light and the half-light, I would spread the cloths under your feet: But I, being poor, have only my dreams; I have spread my dreams under your feet; Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.&quot; And every day, everywhere, our children spread And we should tread softly. Thank you. (Applause) Thank you very much. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause)