Sometimes, a console just isn't enough. Today, I want to talk about one of my the Famicom Disk System. It's an add-on proprietary floppy disks, and for a short Nintendo considered it the future of The games were bigger and even cheaper advancements in technology quickly made the system obsolete, but that doesn't mean the Disk System was bad, it was an some great games. Many of the ideas and introduced and So let's dive into the history of the What it was; why it was created; and how The year was 1985, and top of Japan's video game market. In just Nintendo sold more than 3 million All across the country, retailers called Nintendo, asking for more product to satisfy consumer demands. One of the biggest demands was for banned the previous year, which resulted budget, but there was little Nintendo Cartridges were expensive to make, thanks to the cost of semiconductors and cost around thirty dollars at the time, even simple games. That year a company about a possible new add-on for the Hudson Soft had experimented with their Famicom dominating the market, it made sense to pitch the technology to like a credit card, but had enough Once consumers got tired of the game, they could bring the card to a kiosk in a Nintendo loved the idea, especially the but the technology was somewhat expensive, and they would be forced to pay royalties for every card sold. Nintendo ultimately decided to pass on eventually led Hudson Soft to partner PC Engine system, also known as the Turbografx in North America. It played games using &quot;HuCARD&quot;s, an evolution of the &quot;Bee&quot; card. Nintendo continued to explore the idea of Luckily, there was a popular form of their concept: floppy disks. Floppy disks had become the standard form of media could hold more data than cartridges, and Nintendo chose to use Mitsumi's &quot;Quick 5 and a quarter and three and a half Mitsumi marketed their &quot;Quick Disk&quot;s as a Thus, development began on bud by Masayuki Yukimura, and R&amp;D 2, the same team that designed the Famicom. On February 21st, 1986, after several delays, the Famicom Disk Y=15,000, which was around $80 at the time. To go along with the add-on, Nintendo released &quot;The Legend of Zelda&quot;, a massive adventure game that utilized all 128KB of their campaign featured a new mascot: a cute The ads promise that all It seemed as if Nintendo had gone all in Initially, the Famicom Disk System sold very well. Within three months they sold 500,000 units. By the end of the year, that number Let's dive into the hardware. The disk the disk system itself, the RAM adapter, So you might be wondering: &quot;What about a power adapter?&quot; Well, those were actually sold separately. Apparently, Nintendo thought people's the Famicom. Surprisingly the system last The front of the disk system features games, and an access light to let you know when data is being read on the disk. The back of the system contains an AC The RAM adapter is the key to operating It's responsible for sending all the On the back is a hidden parallel port. Nothing I know of utilizes this port, but it in the future, maybe for a system link Inside the adapter, is extra RAM for program and graphical data. There's also a special processor inside This allowed for even more detailed Listen for some of the differences Well, that's basically it. Overall it's a a base to the Famicom and has matching It's a pretty gorgeous setup. When you an iconic jingle, along with some fun heart of any console is the games, and this is how Games are stored on disk cards: each side can hold 64KB of data for a total of 128KB. In some cases, a different game can be written on each side. My copy of &quot;Super Mario Brothers 2&quot; has has a space to let you write in what shutter to protect the magnetic disk. sleeve in clear plastic case, most likely Games that came on a blue disk did have the plastic shutter, but more on that later. There's also the word &quot;Nintendo&quot; recessed this was actually an anti-piracy measure. fits snuggly into these letters. If it While the upfront cost of the disk buying games for the system was relatively cheap. An average disk system game was between $15-20 while the Nintendo also setup disk writer kiosks For only about $3 customers could An extra $1 would net you the for about $12 then write a new game to it. It was a brilliant idea, and gave Nintendo even took it a step further, by In 1987, they set up contests where players would compete for high scores on specific games. These games came on special blue titles such as &quot;F1 Race&quot; and &quot;3D Hot Rally&quot;. Once you achieve a high score, you could bring in your disk to a disk score would be sent to Nintendo. Winners Nintendo initially hoped the disk system games for less money, but when developers found out how much extra data they could put in their games, it became the future. Most cartridge but thanks to the disk system they could had the ability to save their games One developer, Yoshio Sakamoto of R&amp;D 1, stated the disk system allowed them to create less stage clear games like &quot;Wrecking Crew&quot; or Nintendo even entered new genre territory games such as &quot;Famicom Detective Club &quot; and &quot;Time Twist&quot;. The disk system also gave developers more time to create games. Production of the actual disks took much less time than a cartridge. &quot;Kid Icarus&quot; Nintendo promised that all future big Famicom Disk System and for a time, Nintendo wasn't kidding. From November 1985 to November of 1987, Nintendo didn't release a single Many classics debuted on &quot;The Legend of Zelda&quot;, &quot;Metroid&quot;, &quot;Kid Icarus&quot;, &quot;Doki Doki Panic&quot;, &quot;Castlevania&quot;, even the sequel to &quot;Super Mario Brothers&quot; was only available on the disk system. With all that being said, the Famicom Disk System did have its flaws. Most consumers were used to simply putting in a cartridge and introduced a whole new set of issues: the disks are fragile. Without any they collect dust and fingerprints, which And because games were now on disks, Loading times. Even the system had rubber drive belts that spun the disks, Many times, you will boot up the disk system to a And of course, all of the parts are Overall, the Famicom Disk System is a tons of potential, but ultimately, fell Nintendo sold about 4 and a half Well, quite a few things. Just four months Capcom released &quot;Ghosts n' Goblins&quot; on a Not only that, but semiconductor and so making cartridge-based games wasn't When Nintendo brought the disk system they came up with a battery backup save there were almost no advantages to Nintendo also introduced very third-party licensees. If a company Nintendo charged a hefty fee. They also ownership of any disk system game, There is also less money to be made in Retailers weren't thrilled either. While they took up a lot of room in stores, and Piracy was also an issue. Despite Nintendo's clever stamp on disks and various programming checks, people found a way to get around One clever trick was to slightly modify This not only worked, but avoid copyright Copying devices and bootleg games were Eventually, Nintendo admitted defeat and They even took a few disk games, like Believe it or not, there were plans to release the disk system in the United States. Several patents were filed, but by the time they were approved in 1988, Nintendo had canceled plans to release Despite Nintendo pulling the plug on the Nintendo serviced the system all the way disc writing services all the way up to Today it's a collector's piece for It requires a bit more attention due to Even buying software can be tricky, as games were overwritten constantly. You may think you are purchasing one you find out it's something completely You can buy a Famicom Disk System with a new drive belt for around $50 on eBay, but keep in mind, you are also get extra fancy, you can go for the Sharp Nintendo collaborated with Sharp, and created the Sharp Twin Famicom: an all-in-one system that played both These go for a bit more, around $150. If getting a Famicom is just totally out of the question, the disk system does work using an NES however, the enhanced audio doesn't work using this method. For more information, I highly recommend checking out FamicomDiskSystem.com. It's a great resource, containing That's all for this episode of Gaming Funding for Gaming Historian is provided