This is Bancroft. It's a small Iowa town composed of a grocery office supply store, flower shop, hair salon, home, trailer manufacturer, whisky distillery, course, two gas stations, two restaurants, homes, 699 people, and that's about it. Bancroft more-or-less nestles into a single, by eight other one-by-one mile squares--fields Six squares down, there's another town--Burt. Six to the west, it's Lone Rock, then six This consistent human distribution is reflective They're farm towns--their economy is the they grow, and so their spacing is dictated that separate them can reasonably provide 974 of these squares combined represent Kossuth Of those, a full 355 are dedicated to the are used to grow corn. Therefore, this county, as large as the country the singular purpose of growing these two The reason why is because Kossuth County, world of agriculture-crucial food-production the United States, not only even just for For a farmer living and working, say, here, average-sized farm, the process of feeding powering the local community, and providing when they sit down at the kitchen table, flip when, and exactly what they're going to Now, of the 23,195,000 acres planted in Iowa soybean or corn. It's a safe bet, in other words, that, come these two major cash crops. Deciding what to plant, however, is not simply Considering that all this land has been planted in other corn producing regions of the world prospects, it's likely that they'll pass But that's only the start: now the farmer from. Selective breeding over millennia and genetic are what transformed corn from this, to this-a engines and America's meat industry alike. They're also what have allowed per-acre century, as breeding for increased yield, have pushed bushel per acre yields to levels For this average Iowa farmer on this average matters, but the future--and to ensure they're need to nail their seed selection. Ninety-nine percent of corn grown in Iowa field corn, or the type that goes on to make in Wyoming, or sweeten drinks in Georgia. And still, the options are endless when it in dry years, others in wet years; some produce some fare better when planted in untilled Ultimately though, informing which seed a metric-average yield: the number of bushels So, to figure out what will make the farmer they start here, with the Iowa Crop Improvement Now, considering Bancroft's less than 30 in Corwith, that the towns sit in the same the same soil region made up of "loamy Wisconsin what works in one spot will work in the other. Grabbing the farmer's eyes first then, are in 2021--a record-setting year for statewide of 205 bushels per acre. Yield is the most important metric, but it's choice-the corn's use, the seed's price, loyalty all inform that final decision. Given that Dekalb's hybrid performed so and given that Arndorfer Bros Seed, conveniently to sell Dekalb seeds, all things being equal, Dekalb 52-99RIB, or something like it. Or perhaps not, perhaps the farmer considered went a different route. You see, while billions of dollars a year seeds, and, in turn, billions a year are brought junctures of the process revolve entirely intuition. 2022, for example, is a La Nina year-a and a year where cold snaps, above average to continue through spring and summer. Perhaps then, our farmer, considering the and potential flooding, went with a hybrid Such weather not only informs what is planted, Using Iowa State extension estimations, and yield on their land, seeds for 395 acres will another $4,500. If the farmer plants too early and loses the out $55,000. Seeds selected, weather considered, and risk of April and the first of May our farmer attaches the attachment's row width and seed depth, onto the field. For a few days, machinery that's valued of the year. In the coming weeks, as spring gives way to skyward, and the work will continue. A poor planting strategy can ruin a farmer's strategy will result in maximum yield, either. Throughout the growing season-from the end can go wrong, and much hangs on the farmer's While no farmer, Iowan or otherwise, can control have done their best to exert at least some most obvious sign of this pursuit is the ever-present While humble in form, these cuts into the northwest of Bancroft knows it. Take Mud Creek, for example. For Bancroft golfers on hole two, it's a For travelers leaving Bancroft on highway For our farmer though, Mud Creek serves as You see, while the Western US cut ditches Iowans cut ditches to grow crops in wetlands. In Iowa it's not the lack of rain that makes For our farmer, Mud Creek is the lowest point into their acreage, the creek, along with rainfall from the field and insulates the Without proper drainage, in a worst case scenario, mud keeps the farmer from even inspecting In the best case scenario, without drainage yields will be hampered when the first rainstorm with it, the farmer's yield. Beyond keeping excess water away from the that the plant has easy access to needed nutrients Beginning when planted with a starter fertilizer, on the seed and soil conditions, a mix of to maximize the plant's growth. In such ideal growing conditions though, corn the farmer's field. Along with proactively applying nutrients the arrival and spread of weeds and pests. Neither fertilizers nor pesticides are cheap. According to Iowa State's estimated costs, than the seeds it supports, while applying or employing a pilot to spread the product And yet, the farmer wouldn't dare cut corners of modern science's most successful forays against nature's inherent chaos. And so, our farmer further extends themself vertically. With the summer behind it and fall weather and all the farms of Iowa, to begin capitalizing But exactly when this happens is not down This massive industry collectively waits in enough stretch of dry days to allow the harvest And this doesn't always come easy. In 2018, for example, Kossuth County received at the start of fall which made it difficult dryness, and impossible to get large farm stuck in the mud. This slowed down the harvest considerably 2014. Even a day of weather months before can sway In 2020, Iowa suffered an extremely severe The high winds it brought damaged the crop, This leaning crop condition, referred to as harvesters to capture and process all of the Therefore, immediately after the storm, local publishing information on how to adapt standard Many farmers took their advice to buy a special prop up lodged corn. Iowa State's Integrated Crop Management direction to which the crop is leaning, lowering at a lower speed. They even added a suggestion that farmers the degree of mental and emotional impact Given the tiny margins in the farming industry, crop can mean the difference between a profitable yields. But regardless of field conditions, the combine in the crop and process it down into the grain Now, the combine harvester is an incredibly It is single-handedly responsible for much over the past century. What was once an exceedingly manual process, and processing the crop primarily by hand, human operator. The combine's head orients to a certain the entire machine auto-steers using another Meanwhile, the snouts feed the crop to a pair plant through a narrow gap where the ears and pulled inwards by gathering chains. Then, the ears are pulled in further by augers that throws the plant back into a series of from the chuff--the unusable part--and by the corn kernels themselves up into the combine's As the combine harvests, a tractor with a lets out its arm and delivers grain into the Once full, the tractor drives away, while to a waiting semi-truck pulling a far larger This process repeats itself until the trailer couple miles into Bancroft. Now, a common landmark across nearly all of grain elevator. These are absolutely critical pieces of infrastructure Bancroft's, indicatively, is operated by Upon arrival, a probe is placed into the grain That sample is inspected and tested for its to assure mold won't grow during storage, be mixed in with other farmers' crop. Simultaneously, the truck is weighed to determine Then, it pulls forward and a door beneath a grate below. Finally, a bucket belt carries the grain to deposited into the storage bin. Now, the farmers have two primary choices They could sell their crop immediately to on corn's current market rate. However, during the harvest season, market with supply, especially recently given a widespread Therefore, if farmers can store the corn, Bancroft's grain elevator charges 5 cents then 4 cents per bushel per month after that, During 2021's harvest season, for example, but by Spring 2022 they were up to $7.50. This grain market is a global one, and so the world influence how many trucks roll through their grain elevator on a given day. Once that day does come, though, if it's not turned into livestock feed or ethanol, chances a trip three-hours east to La Crosse, Wisconsin. There, it unloads at a small grain elevator by Cargill--one of the largest companies functions, holds about 25% of the US' grain Once enough product is aggregated, it's lashed together and propelled forward by a The tug orients the barges south and then locks and 1,500 miles or 2,400 kilometers This transportation method is propped up by product--in its dry form it's hardly perishable few ever have a pressing need for it. Therefore, this exceptionally slow system the most competitive in terms of cost. Shipping a ton of grain all the way from St than $20 on a Mississippi River barge--far In fact, a major reason why America's corn is its access to this low-cost means of transportation Other growing areas of the world, confined can't compete against America's industry. The destination for all these barges is New Its prominence as a city has always been and of America's most important navigable river. There, the barge from La Crosse arrives at where the grain enters yet another elevator. Aggregated with the annual output of countless a large, ocean-going bulk-carrier ship. And then finally, the bulk-carrier navigates Mississippi River, enters the Gulf of Mexico, the corn market's demand dictates. One reason I was excited to cover this topic specular footage of the corn-fields of Iowa Quite literally since the very-first Wendover to find footage which is why I'm so excited As you might know, most stock footage providers media organizations, so when an individual of dollars per clip. Storyblocks, however, is made from the ground-up They offer an unlimited subscription so that for an annual price lower than what other Beyond an unlimited subscription, Storyblocks meaning you can use anything from the library The library is also demand-driven, making Effects and Premiere Pro templates-is of And storyblocks offers more than just footage sound effects, and more. If you're already a creator or want to become years of experience as their customer that to have-I don't think I know a single to them. So, click the button on screen or head to be supporting the channel while you're at