Hello, good morning! I'm chef of the &quot;Le Clarence&quot; restaurant in Paris. Here at &quot;Le Clarence&quot;, with the chef Christophe Pele we propose a direct contemporary cusine, most of all without a Menu, the top ingredients available it's total freedom in the With Italia Squisita we prepare a recipe that two cultures: the Italian and the French one. However, I don't so I wanted to propose simple that can speak to amount of people: the roasted chicken in France it's a &quot;fetish&quot; Sunday dish. Here the approach is completely different from the one we have in Italy It's much easier to find quality chicken here in France, At the supermarket itself you can easily find an properly raised. To prepare our chicken we start by cutting the head, the wings and the legs off and lastly we eviscerate it. After that we can stuff it garlic, a four-sliced lemon smoked bacon and salt. Then we tie it up well and we place it in a casserole with some olive oil and some more salt. The most important thing is that the chicken must be at since at least half an hour Let's start cooking, on a induction plate, on the leg, so that the temperature can penetrate on the inside and allows a more uniform cooking. To help myself in this process the wings that I cutted before the legs, I cover it all with and I put it in the oven. 180 Cdeg, for 45- 50 minutes, being careful of turn it over every 15 minutes. You have to remember to with its own fat coming out in order to avoid a dry chicken. We can start to prepare the and the preparations that will a Bernese sauce, which sauce made with eggs, shallots and herbs, and some French fries, that as the word in english suggests, they must be truly French! We now cut the shallot finely and later we cook it. I like to cook it with white balsamic vinegar, as it's more sugary, some black peppercorns, and some tarragon. We let the liquid has evaporated completely and the shallot in the end almost transparent, and we as a base to mount our which is a eggs- sauce. In the meanwhile we some time to prepare are going to season this sauce: tarragon and chervil. We cut them well otherwise because they would turn black and all their oils and flavors would We turned the chicken, the shallot is cooking in its reduction the herbs are ready we now have to clarify the eggs it means to separate the For our recipe we need 3 yolks so consequently in a small pan, we put the shallot that has become sugary we add the yolks, 1 spoon and we start to mount Once it starts to foam a bit we can cook it, usually it cooks in a water bath in order to prevent the egg coagulation, however we know how to do it directly on the induction plate, being very careful not to cook too much the eggs otherwise we would have an omelette. Now we take it off and we continue whipping on a cold surface trying our best to incorporate as much air as possible. Once we have done that we go back on the cooking plate, being always careful with the egg cooking. When we can see the bottom of our saucepan, it means that the eggs are at the right point and therefore we can finish it with a clarified butter which it is simply a melted butter without casein. The idea of a roasted chicken is that it has to be truly roasted so, without adding liquids otherwise it would be a braised chicken. There is no beer or white wine in the recipe no liquids, otherwise the chicken would be wetter we want it to be crunchy on the outside but juicy on the inside, for this reason the the best it's to cook it dry without to much fat, it remains just the olive oil we used at the beginning to massage it. 20 minutes of cooking, then we can start to prepare the French fries. To me French fries are an important topic because good homemade fries is like gold! For our recipe we need two potatoes we need to wash them as we peal them and cut them in strips we wash them to eliminate the starch and later we dry them in a clean kitchen towel. The important thing of the French fries is the cooking: classic cooking includes two firings at 160 Cdeg or 170 Cdeg max, because once dipped the fries, temeperature will drop it's important that they are not too dry nor too brown during the first immersion, they need to be soft but it's important they start making a soft crust. For frying French fries, as well as in the case of every fried food, I prefer to use olive oil, because it gives a more interesting color and its smell in the room where we are cooking is way less intrusive, and I really like it. Once the first firing called the &quot;whitening&quot; is done, we need to salt immediately the potatoes, in order to have a more tasty potatoe and most important a more colored potatoe because the salt helps to caramelization of the fries. Once our fries are pre-fried we wait for the oil to go back a the temperature of 180 -190 Cdeg we dip them in oil waiting for them to brown well. Then, we remove them from oil moving them them in a plate with paper towels we add some more salt and finally, the product that has distinguished French cuisine for centuries: butter. A key factor in using butter is not to add it at the beginning of the cooking because at 180 Cdeg even if just for 5 minutes it's better therefore during the last 5 minutes of cooking to add a nice knob of butter and together we can add also garlic and rosemary, just near the end to preserve the freshness of the herbs if we add them from the beginning they would burn and have a dried flavor. What we want and what I like is it to have that fragrance of fresh rosemary as freshly cut.Let's water the chicken with its own fat and we help it to brown itself better, because butter is used for taste but also for coloring the meat. After 45-50 minutes, we take the chicken off and we let it rest on a tinfoil crown. Most important is to place it upside down, because the thicker parts are the most difficult to cook and they are near the head, which is why we let it rest for about15 minutes allowing the heat to penetrate inside the meat in order to have a juicier chicken. Once we have left our chicken coverd with a tinfoil we take back our casserole we squeeze on the inside some lemon juice and we are going to use this gravy as a sauce for our meat, later we'll observe that while the chicken has rested it has released some of its cooking liquids, that we are going to collect and recover. our chicken taking just the breast and we place it in the center of the plate after placing the chicken we add a sorrel leaf for acidity, also something I didn't think about in the beginnig but now I want to use is an anchovy in olive oil,finally since it is the season and we are here in France a nice scratch of Melanosporum black truffle, We season the plate with the and with the Bernese sauce. On the side, we are serving the French fries that we are goign to season with some dried oregano. Even if this is a a very simple recipe, I wanted to present a tasty dish from French tradition but most of all one of the dishes that have obsessed me the most, during my life as a chef. We just watched a cult- dish of French cusine, especially for French families, a recipe that seems easy to make. I hope that my advices could help you to make a great Sunday roasted chicken! If you come to Paris please come to visit me at &quot;Le Clarence&quot;. Au revoir!