(wind howling) (gentle music) - [Narrator] Ice in it's varied forms covers as much as 16% of Earth's surface. Including 33% of land areas at the height of the northern winter. (dramatic music) Glaciers. Sea ice. Permafrost. Ice sheets and snow, play an important role in Earth's climate. They reflect energy back to space. Shape ocean currents, and spawn weather patterns. But there are signs that are beginning to disappear. To find out where Earth might be headed, scientists are drilling down into the ice. And scouring ancient seabeds for evidence of past climate change. What are they learning 1,000 years into the future and beyond? (gentle dramatic music) About 30,000 years ago Earth began a relentless descent into winter. (gentle dramatic music) Glaciers pushed into what Ice spread beyond polar seas. New layers accumulated on the vast frozen plateau of Greenland. And across the continent of Antarctica. These ice sheets are monumental formations built over successive ice And yet today, scientists how resilient they really are. Average global temperatures have risen by at least one degree celsius since the Industrial Revolution. They could rise an additional by the end of this century. Along with rising temperatures, come higher rates of melting West Antarctica, an is thought to be especially vulnerable. Should it break up, it holds enough ice to raise sea levels by Greenland is also Especially where glaciers fed by the thick inland ice sheet meet the ocean. It contains enough ice by itself to add seven meters to global sea levels. In the coming decades and centuries, rising sea levels could threaten of up to a quarter of With so much at stake, scientists are intensively monitoring With satellites, radar flights, and expeditions to drill And they are reconstructing past climates, looking for clues to where Periods of melting and are central events in Going back over two billion years, Earth has experienced at least five major glacial or ice ages. These cold periods and the have been spurred by interlocking factors. Volcanic events. The evolution of plants and animals. Patterns of ocean circulation. The movement of continents. The world as we know in the period from 90 The continents at the time were moving toward their present positions. (gentle music) The Americas had separated India was headed toward The world was getting warmer. Temperatures spiked roughly Going up about five degrees celsius in just a few thousand years. CO2 levels rose to about Compared to 280 a century and But the stage was set The movement of land masses cut the arctic off from the wider oceans. (gentle music) That allowed a layer of fresh and a sea plant called In a year it can soak up as much as 15 tons of CO2 per hectare. Meanwhile, the Indian causing the mighty Himalayan In a process called weathering, rainfall interacting with exposed rock began to draw more CO2 Washing it into the sea. With CO2 levels steadily In the record of more recent times, scientists have been able to track a more subtle climate driver. (gentle music) It was first described by the 19th century Serbian scientist Milutin Milankovitch. He saw that periodic variations altered the amount of solar In combination, every 100,000 years or so, these variations have sent Earth into a period of cool Each glacial period was followed in which temperatures rose These Milankovitch cycles by themselves to cause the shift. What they do is get the ball rolling. A decrease in solar allows sea ice to form in Then to expand it's The ice reflects more A colder ocean stores more CO2, which further dampens Conversely, when ocean temperatures rise, more CO2 escapes into the atmosphere, where it traps more solar energy. Scientists are studying for clues to what could happen in this period of rising temperatures. (gentle dramatic music) Greenland today is a laboratory for studying the history of our planet. It's landscapes and fjords tell the story of mountain building, volcanism, ice ages and the rise of living organisms. (gentle dramatic music) From it's beginnings in Greenland gradually migrated north as part of what became North The parallel mountain ranges that lie on it's eastern and western coastlines, go back 300 to 400 million years. In recent times, the that sits between these With glaciers repeatedly To find out just how scientists have been using to look for large scale changes. Using the GRACE satellite, the overall rate of ice loss. The pink shading indicates From 2003 to 2009, the island lost about a trillion tons of ice. Mostly along it's coastlines. They are focusing especially on a series of large coastal glaciers. Before these glaciers reach the sea, the ice flows into a They act as dams holding the ice sheet behind them in place. As air and ocean temperatures rise, these ice dams can become unstable, and break off into icebergs. This process is called calving. (gentle dramatic music) The Jakobshavn Glacier drains producing some 35 billion (gentle dramatic music) The fastest moving glacier of all, Jakobshavn is now surging into the sea, at a rate of 17 kilometers per year. Three times faster than Then there's the giant in the northeast. Once considered Greenland's it drains the heart of the inland ice along the northeast coast. From 2003 to 2014, it and lost 10 billion tons of ice. There are signs that the Increasingly in summer, collect in ponds on the This is an area just south As these ponds deepen, they through cracks in the ice. That may increase melting by carrying heat down to the base of the ice sheet. When this happens, and the ice above it is Greenland is losing ice (gentle dramatic music) If the entire ice sheet were to melt, much of Greenland would be under water. Dotted with small islands. Over time, with the weight lifted, the land would gradually rise. The sheer mass of the inland ice exerts such a strong gravitational pull on surrounding oceans, that it actually raises local sea levels. Ironically, in the event sea levels would actually of about 1,000 kilometers. More distant shores would experience an average rise of over seven meters. How prone is Greenland to melting? Of all the past interglacial periods, perhaps the most is The Eemian, from 130 to At that time, atmospheric CO2 and global temperatures And yet areas of the far were found to have been forested. The 19th century Dutch scientist noted the presence of mollusk fossils much farther north than The thinking today is that struck the northern hemisphere, causing temperatures to rise The heat was further and by spreading northern forests. The impact was global, from four to eight meters (gentle music) To find out how much came scientists have mounted glacial drilling projects to date. The North Greenland Eemian The ice samples they obtained If you were a visitor at the beginning of the Eemian period, you would've experienced temperatures of about eight degrees Yet at the thickest point the Thus Greenland would've to total sea level rise. An additional meter would've come from the expansion of ocean water, due to elevated temperatures. What caused the additional Scientists are looking to Earth's other, much larger ice sheet on Antarctica contains 90% of all the ice, and 70% of all the fresh (gentle dramatic music) If you could go back to a what's now the frozen was a land of forests and flowing water. In a warmer wetter world, it harbored a wide diversity of plants and animals. In this period, known as the Permian, Antarctica was at the southern end of a vast super continent called Pangea. In those days, Antarctica When Pangea began to fragment, Antarctica moved south as part of the great southern continent of Gondwana. (gentle dramatic music) At around 130 million years ago, a series of rifts causing Gondwana to separate (gentle dramatic music) Australia finally split off Leaving Antarctica on it's own. Wind the clock forward to 65 All around the world warm to cooler dryer times. Around Antarctica, conifers and other cold tolerant plants took hold. In some areas, landscapes Ice remained year round, gradually forming a thick sheet. At the same time, powerful from west to east, drove the Known as the mightiest it helped shield the continent from tropical waters to the north. A combination of factors Declining CO2, the and the tendency of permanent ice stores to reflect more solar At around two and a Earth entered the last great ice age, the one we live in called the Quaternary. Year after year, as storms they deposited layer upon layer of snow and ice across Antarctica. Today, it is the windiest, driest, and coldest place on Earth. There are no permanent human populations. Only a few thousand scientists living at scattered research stations. At the Russian Vostok scientists documented the lowest natural temperature on record. Minus 89.2 degrees celsius. A recent calculation based on to minus 93.2 degrees Celsius. What little snow falls adding to the continents mass. You can see evidence of that piles up at the South This geodesic dome was built in the 1970s. By the time it was decommissioned in 2009, the entrance was nearly buried. With the ice beneath this don't expect it to melt anytime soon. That's true in part because Captured in an extraordinary radar image. The eastern part of the continent, the far side of the image, is a stable foundation In contrast, the western side below present day sea level. Here on the Amundsen Sea coast, the ice is disappearing Consider how much has already been lost. This is a reconstruction of the continent, during the last glacial Compare it to this image Along the western coast, inland ice streams are at around 100 meters per year. They end up in floating ice shelves, that extend out into the ocean. When ice shelves like this grow, they become prone to fracturing. A giant crack for example, recently appeared in Within two years a 720 had broken off. Scientists are increasingly concerned about what's happening In recent times, the southern ocean that swirls around the continent, has been getting warmer at the rate of .2 degrees celsius per decade. This trend has been blamed for one of the more puzzling twists in In recent summers in the Arctic, the period of sea ice The minimum extent of sea ice and what's left is thinner by over a meter per year in some places. In contrast, the coverage has been growing all around Antarctica. One possibility is that ramped are pushing the ice into thicker Another theory suggests that melt waters have spread a layer of cold fresh water over coastal seas where Here's a view of recent from the GRACE satellite. Areas that lost ice are Blue indicates ice gains. The greatest losses Especially where a series empty into the Amundsen Sea. European scientists documented this trend with radar data from the By tracking changes in the they found that the 159 billion tons of ice each An increase of 31% per year A small number of scientists as far back as the 1960s. One reason they pointed out, is the intensification of winds As the temperature difference with northern regions has increased, these winds have picked up speed. To sailors brave enough the southern ocean once offered the quickest route around the world. (gentle music) Nowadays stronger winds of drawing to the surface that occurs naturally in the These warmer waters have begun that extend out from inland glaciers. Satellite images from over a decade ago show the effect this can have. Out on the West Antarctic peninsula, the Larson Ice Shelf This image from early February of 2002 shows Larson beginning to splinter. By March 7th of that year, it broke apart. Countless icebergs tumbled into the sea. Without the shelf's buttressing effect, the glaciers behind it picked up speed, dumping an additional 27 cubic kilometers of ice into the ocean each year. That's not the only place (gentle dramatic music) One team setup it's base where it juts out into the Amundsen Sea. From the surface they drill to track changes in temperature, salinity, currents and ice volume. They found that warmer the underside of the ice shelf, with melt rates of about Or about 22 meters per year. Another group has been using to track changes like Red shows where the at their highest speeds, at the intersection of ice and ocean. Now look at where the glaciers like the one at Pine Island. Down here, the flow speed Some of the most dramatic changes have been observed on the Smith Glacier, one of the smallest in this group. Back in 1996, this is met beneath Smith. By 2011, that so called grounding line, had moved 35 kilometers further back. A retreat of more than Now peel off the ice from the continent. The red areas show the highest flow rates. You can see that these sit within valleys, some of The more the grounding lines retreat, the more sea water can creep For most of the glaciers, such as hills and mountains that would slow them down once they got going. The more the glaciers speed up, the more likely the ice sheets If that happens, it may not be completely due to climate change. Scientists have found that the flow of water beneath some glaciers is too high to come just from sea water. (gentle dramatic music) The Transantarctic Mountains dividing East and West Antarctica, that is occurring in the Scientists have detected seismic activity they say is consistent with magma moving within the crust over 25 kilometers down. They have now found there of geothermal activity beneath the Thwaites, to account To date, most studies have focused on the and Western Antarctica. Together, they could account for up to 12 meters of sea level rise. (gentle downbeat music) The massive East Antarctic ice sheet, has been largely ignored. Because of it's sheer it has seemed impervious to New research has given how stable it really is. If any part of East it's here in a region called Wilkes Land. Under the weight of ice today, some parts of the basin are over two kilometers below sea level. There is enough ice here to add another three to four meters of sea level rise. Currently, the Wilkes ice This means the amount of ice that melts or falls into the sea, is replaced by new ice that forms inland. What would it take to throw A crucial factor is a zone in which the ice shelf is wedged against a series of ridges on the sea bottom. These ridges act as a stopper, preventing the glacier and from moving forward. If warmer waters were to undermine the ice that rests on these ridges, then the ice sheet could The effect has been described as similar to a bottle of water Remove the stopper and Once the ice starts flowing, there would be no stopping it. How plausible is this scenario? On the much smaller Pine Island glacier, scientists have shown that the ice shelf has already broken free The disintegration of is a process that would take But once it gets going it would mean a steady rise of sea levels A recent study sought to extrapolate changes to Antarctica during The Pliocene three million years ago, and later on the Eemian. Factoring in the current rate the study concluded that a full two meters by (gentle dramatic music) By the year 2500, the could send sea levels up The danger is that even if we bring greenhouse gases under control, the additional warmth might soon lock us in to How will that affect the way we live over the next hundred or thousand years? The changes we experience are shaped mostly by In technology, politics and culture. Some of the bedrocks of modern life, cities like New York, London, Hong Kong, and seaports around the world have grown and evolved on Within the long arc of their histories, rising seas could threaten their existence in a relatively short time frame. Add to that networks and businesses lost, and hundreds of millions forced to moved inland. The emerging story of ice sheet melting and sea level rise is often With the drama of what's happening, damped down by the rational Critics focus on margins of error inherent in the scientific process. Or downplay the predictive Politicians debate. Conspiracy theories abound. With each passing year our choices narrow. The history of Earth's great ice sheets contains a stark lesson for our times. In periods of rising CO2 and temperatures, the ice draws down and sea levels rise. What's at stake for Earth in the coming centuries and millennia? Is the world we know the one that has nurtured and sustained us? The Earth itself will go on. Ever changing on short A dynamic living planet. (gentle music)