It's a sentiment that crops up with some Sometimes it's expressed obliquely as a we should all respect each other's beliefs. Other times it's delivered is a demand: 'I respect your beliefs so But in all cases, my reply is the one 'I don't.' With the betrothed, those words alienation, even betrayal. But similar in the reaction of those theists whose beliefs I decline to respect. some unspoken social contract It might be insinuated that It's even been put to me that it's my kind But is any of that true? I want to unpack I'll be exploring four kinds of undeserved respect from others, and might be problematic for them. I'll then explaining why religious beliefs -- far are among the most deserving of scrutiny a last-ditch defence often offered that, even if it's false, religion should a positive social function. One of the things the atheist satirist and critic H. L. Mencken got wrong was his assertion that we must respect but only in the sense and to the extent his wife is beautiful and his children smart. We don't need to Mencken muddies the waters by blurring The theory that your wife is beautiful Even if you phrase that judgment ie 'She's beautiful.' -- you and I both know -- don't we? -- that this is just shorthand for 'She's I have no reason to respond to this That only comes if you go a step further in which case, prepare yourself for an is in the business of asserting facts irretrievably -- and it requires my these facts stand up to scrutiny, I have some rethinking to do. If they're and fallacious arguments, I don't. Oddly, mirroring the way aesthetic religious truth claims frequently get We often hear it said of some god, 'He's to forestall any possible challenge, translating to: 'He's real to me, no matter this strangely personalised reality 'If you let me make my truth claims It attempts to establish sympathetic It says, 'Hey, we can both come out winners while we both do something very bad -- epistemologically.' Other folks take a invoking a mutual obligation. Here the make your truth claims unchallenged, so you should let me make mine!' But The earth isn't a flat disk for you and a just because we make some wishful pact. If you're claiming that any gods exist about a reality of which I'm a part -- and it's your burden to substantiate it. Some folks have no such the universal truth of their religion, and adopt an openly threatening, violent approach to inspire fear among critics -- The need to be able to subject beliefs It's a very important one, the greater the power and influence involved. When a person or group assumes a their reaction to ridicule can tell us a We might expect to see a range of responses from amusement to anger. But when the that's where we see the warning signs autocracies headed by brittle narcissists, Ridicule is especially threatening to Not only does a prick their inflated self-image, it also reduces their capacity to inspire No authority is beyond ridicule. No politician. No priest. No prophet. No parent. Because that's what theism comes Our simultaneous longing for and fear of the magical, mystical, unquestionable parent. When we were infants, our parents or and this inspired two irreconcilable love and fear. In healthy relationships, where parents' we begin to appreciate their We see why our parents snatched our hand away for walking away with that nice Consequently, the fear response is But in unhealthy relationships, where leading to erratic, overblown and the fear can endure -- sometimes at the afraid to challenge a corrupt authority. a parent who threatens to burn its Of all the authorities we need to be the most urgent cases are when questioned, resisted, or ridiculed. The fourth manipulative strategy attempts to silence challenge by 'My beliefs give me comfort -- There are times in life when Numbly waiting for a phone call about a Or dreading lonely evenings after a divorce. Or sitting at a loved one's hospital bedside In these situations, we might find A hug. A chat with a friend. The opportunity to escape for a day, an hour, even a handful of minutes and let in some comfort -- can be and keeping us going. And many of us to facilitate that comfort for others. by diving into relentless unprotected to drown out the pain of divorce? her savings to a con artist to commune with a dead relative? Would we What about the knock-on effect on others? If parents take comfort in fantasies of an afterlife to avoid dealing with death, what will Will they get the chance to face death honestly? or will they now be forced to collude Without afterlife fantasies, would parents be life-saving medical treatment on religious grounds? What about suicide attackers who anticipate a glorious martyr's reward Afterlife fantasies are not harmless or They're multivalent: susceptible to a wide The desire for comfort can lead to as well as states of perpetual denial Which is why I don't view comfort as or facilitated. And why it's often more humanitarian to Feelings of fear, obligation, guilt and can help us in some scenarios. Fear can Obligation can help strengthen But when folks try to play on these unreasonable self-serving demands, that's emotional blackmail -- and we need It's worth noting that when people tell me a little probing often reveals problems With christians, I have to put it to them directly conflicts with their Bible. In the Bible's blood-soaked old sets out the christian god Yahweh's the sword and the stone. the Bible's new testament, which maintains its distaste for verses 9 to 11, christians are clearly instructed not to Even by greeting them, christians are When we look beyond death to the the gloves come off completely. If you you're condemned to eternal fiery punishment. respect the beliefs of non-christians that you cannot reconcile your professed Beliefs for which your God prescribes social rejection and, ultimately, eternal With muslims, similar problems arise. To them, I would be considered 'culpably ignorant' and, therefore, destined for perpetual hell-fire. Don't misunderstand me. I'm not asking in a moment, I'll be explaining why but I encourage you to have a serious Because when your religion tells you social rejection and eternal torture, We're talking about dehumanising people. Later on, I'll be looking at the evasions some folks offer when this begins to hit home. Every belief that gets introduced into the If we take its validity as untouchable, valid information the conflicts with it. The need to be able to criticise beliefs as the reach of those beliefs increases. The belief that Henry VIII occasionally isn't going to have a huge impact on our But the belief that our government is always right would have a huge effect on how we Another reason already touched on is Group C believes cancer always and can only be healed by confession Group D believes cancer prompted by a range of genetic It's clear to see these beliefs will result For group C, cancer is a very Patients will be judged as bringing it and will be urged to confess and repent. Those who die will be judged insincere. nor will survival rates. For group D, Patients will be studied to identify and, in response to the patterns that and preventative measures will be As studies open up new avenues of knowledge about cancer will increase as will survival rates. 'Ah,' you might say, 'But even though group C's belief is benefits for society.' 'If group C believes guilty consciences cause cancer, surely,' you might say, 'we'd expect to see 'After all, for them, a clear conscience 'Isn't that a powerful motivation to treat who doesn't see cancer is a moral issue, Both groups, you might say, offer their own advantages -- with group D but group C offering substantially But what if we were to discover that, far group C's belief actively encouraged some of Let's look at a couple of strategies that comfortably combine repeated Strategy one simply acknowledges the power of confession and repentance. According to group C's belief, it Even if we invite cancer by knowingly we'll be healed the moment we confess and in that, if we keep repeating the same the sincerity of our repentance must be To make the strategy more viable, we need to make it more difficult to be ourselves as substantially more flawed picturing ourelves as wretched, weak, powerless to resist all kinds of temptation. the idea of a noble struggle, in which we're constantly battling to This version of the strategy allows us a lot Here, we can plausibly repeat the same while continuing to express contrition. Strategy two does away with confession and repentance altogether. In this strategy, we simply reframe This can easily be achieved with a 'It's for your own good.' With these five simple words, vice Bullying becomes discipline. Intolerance becomes charity. Hate becomes love. We can now abuse people without the slightest small twinge. Any of this sounding familiar? Group C's belief about cancer In fact it guarantees a lot of After all, those who commit have proof of their righteousness. It unnecessary soul-searching by folks They'll be forced to identify non-existent transgressions and, of course, being human, they'll find Cancer doesn't give us moral And neither do holy scriptures that approve that it's possible to justify acts across to the extreme of genocide. A moral compass with two norths Moral systems need to be open systems with the discovery of new information. For example, the morality of vivisection, performed by anatomists such as Galen such as Descartes, was called into question when animals, were instead seen to be capable of Scriptures like the Bible and Qur'an are not open systems. They don't allow for new insights Instead, they present fixed moral based on moral conjecture from centuries ago, preserving all the moral To increase the frequency of moral behaviour that we question and reason and discuss; about the needs, the benefits and that we're willing to as new, relevant information emerges. Most important of all, it requires that we all of these processes by attempting to in an ignorant past we've long outgrown, and by demanding privileged immunity Some theists express confusion about when we don't even believe it exists. 'Do I deserve eternal torture?' Those who Their belief has dehumanised me to the without shame -- that they support a system Not for committing some genocidal But for the crime but not believing in Those who evade my question also The first of two common evasions is: This is disingenuous redundancy. Folks that's not the question I'm asking. But I'll walk them through the long version 'According to your god, non-believers 'Do you agree with your god that I More often than not, I'll get exactly the These folks are stuck between defending and questioning the unquestionable -- And it's not always realistic to expect internal conflict. But for me, it's a promising sign that It shows me there's some appropriate It also means they haven't yet They haven't invested in a fallacious that their internal conflict will inspire The other common evasion is: This is a very different kind of evasion. Here, the problem the hell has been rationalised, removing responsibility from the god in This is known as blaming the victim and employed by abusers and their conspirers. instigators of domestic violence deny 'Look what you made me do!' In the novel 'Sophie's Choice' The eponymous character, a Holocaust at Auschwitz to decide the fate One will be gassed. When she fails to choose, she's told In a moment of panic, Sophie chooses and is tormented by guilt for the rest for her days. But she's utterly blameless. The doctor forcing her into a grotesque position. Non-believers don't send themselves to eternal torture. That's the rationalisation of the sadist. All of these responses show why atheists have a problem with hell even though we don't believe it exists. One of the first things done to groups is that their human status is stripped of as subhuman, or as animals or insects. Rats. Monkeys. Cockroaches. how are you likely to treat them? What about The day Christopher Hitchens died, a link to a freshly uploaded video gleefully depicting him burning in hell and reflected in a range a very public expressions, from the blogs of christian zealots to the joyful chants of muslims protesting outside the 2012 atheist convention in Melbourne This ghoulish disposition was embraced as a lifestyle by the Westboro Baptist Church who plumbed new depths of tastelessness of various groups they considered hellbound, and any perceived sympathisers. In 2015, to obstruct actor Leonard Nimoy's funeral The church's leader Fred Phelps openly interpreting it as evidence of his the Biblical prophets were also hated. When you reduce people to hell-fodder, Which is why it's especially important to My impression is that most theists have a 'sending non-believers to hell' concept. Many Christians I've spoken to flat-out asserting that their god simply wouldn't Others have cheerfully consoled me with That's it. No eternal punishment. I'm not but I do have to ask: where are Certainly not from Matthew chapter 25 Sometimes I'm genuinely touched by the who distort their ideology in all kinds of ways in order to reach out their hands in Some christians go as far as declaring all that matters is how we treat each other. this is exactly the kind of thinking that got making up whatever we want to believe. It's sometimes asserted that religions like They haven't. They've cheated the test of such as the indoctrination of children who've not yet developed their critical faculties. But a dishonest tactic that spans both young and old, members and non-members, is the and silence critics. We need to be able and, as I've shown, that need the greater the knock-on impact a the greater the power and influence involved; the more fervently criticism is discouraged and the more a belief has a facilitating remorseless abuse. Doesn't get much plainer. We're talking The resentments harboured against who decline to respect religious I've broken no contract. I give no but I ask no special regard for mine. I'm not being mean -- because they can lead to real problems. If some folks make the mistake of investing their core identity so that when it gets criticised, then it's up to them to learn from that mistake -- not up to everyone else to pay for it. And it's not my attitude the causes wars. Wars are caused by beliefs like supremacism -- the idea that one group is Supremacism can be based on many things. Gender. The colour of skin. The scriptures of major world religions like christianity and islam are about damning all non-members to eternal torture. No earthly supremacist could hope For centuries, religious supremacism from everyday acts of social discrimination Beliefs like these are what cause wars. And I hope it's now clear why I decline to respect them.