(violin music) - Search the phrase, on YouTube and you'll find that have over 100 They all refer to the late Technoblade, a 23-year-old Minecraft thanks to his gaming talent, humor, and courageous life story. - Let's go, Techno! - He was talented and - [Skeppy] He would just - He was so much more than so much more than just - Technoblade never dies. - Technoblade never dies. - Technoblade never dies. (orchestral music) - But to understand the which has now become a phenomenon, we have to go back to October of 2013, when the then-14-year-old Technoblade uploaded the first video - [Technoblade] Hey, guys. I'd just like to preface this video with an explanation of what goes on because when I am concentrated, - [Narrator] And as the teenager grew, so too did his audience, drawn in by his magnetic humor - [Technoblade] And I'm by the skin of my teeth, and That's how you know it's messed up. - [Narrator] In 2017, we find of what would become the iconic phrase, &quot;Technoblade never dies.&quot; - [Technoblade] The one rule of SkyWars: Technoblade never dies. (upbeat music) No, no, no. (laughs) Subscribe to Technoblade. - And as Technoblade absolutely dominated Minecraft. - [Technoblade] Don't mind me. Just obliterating this poor player. - The seemingly literal phrase gained traction among - [Skeppy] Technoblade never dies. And he wouldn't, he wouldn't. No one was doing what he was doing. He was unmatched. - He even amazed his on Hardcore Mode using a steering wheel. - [Technoblade] Oh wait, it's Look at this, I've got I'm like Batman. - On August 8th, 2019, Technoblade surpassed and received his gold Play Button. - [Technoblade] Well, guys, we did it. One million subscribers. I am now officially a big boy. - The next year, he was invited to join Dream SMP, which features some of It was here his oft-cited refrain would become synonymous with his gameplay. - [Technoblade] Technoblade never dies. Never question me again. Iron armor, no helmet, doesn't matter. I do not die. - The live streams grew even beyond the game itself, by inspiring art based on the of the role play-themed server. - [Technoblade] I have a pickaxe and I'll put it through your teeth. - And later that year YouTube superstar Mr.Beast and Dream SMP founder, Dream, to a head-to-head battle as YouTube Supreme Minecraft Champion. - No! - Technoblade, you animal! - Techno never dies. - Over the following months, Technoblade's channel rocketed to over eight million subscribers, at which time his growing turned what was a creator's catch phrase into a fandom's rallying cry, perpetuating the slogan, &quot;Technoblade never dies,&quot; in YouTube comments, and even fan art. Then suddenly in June of (somber music) So, what had become of Well, he returned to update his fans in the widely viewed - [Technoblade] The reason my arm hurts is because I have cancer. I feel a bit silly talking about this with Minecraft in the background. - Technoblade revealed he had been diagnosed with sarcoma, a rare form of cancer. The video logged over 15 million views with over 50,000 mentions &quot;Technoblade never dies,&quot; Fans had reimagined the mantra for a new chapter in the repeating it in support of And Technoblade made sure with his audience, touching - [Technoblade] I've The only way it could get but I've been off chemo so - And his supporters rallied around him with competitions and fundraisers. - Hey, we hit the goal. (cheering) - Let's go! - Through Technoblade's efforts, over a million dollars has been raised for the Sarcoma Foundation of America. (orchestral music) Tragically, Technoblade On June 30th, 2022, a final video appeared on - Hi, I'm Technoblade's dad. He wrote a message and he asked &quot;Hello everyone, Technoblade here. &quot;If you're watching this, I am dead. &quot;Thank you all for supporting &quot;If I had another hundred lives, &quot;I think I would choose &quot;every single time.&quot; - The outpouring of Both his friends and supporters responded in disbelief and anger, but they'd find creative - [Technoblade] Sky Block teaches us that no matter how within us resides the power and achieve something beautiful that one day we'll look and be amazed by how far we've come. It's not over This isn't the Farewell - And Technoblade's signature slogan evolved into its final form. - [Technoblade] Technoblade never dies. - Repeated in tribute of the great Minecraft player. In the first days after his passing, Technoblade's final video with the phrase, &quot;Technoblade never dies.&quot; Since his death, an with Technoblade never dies in the title are uploaded every day. (mellow music) It's as if the gaming community is keeping the memory of Technoblade alive so that he remains among them, even if only in spirit. Before his passing, Technoblade unlocked all of - Hello, hi. - Creating a time capsule So, with the immortal phrase, he lives on in over 900 videos that continue to bring smiles to faces. He lives on within the gaming community that he was a part of, and that continues to support And he lives on each time someone uploads their first Minecraft video to YouTube, inspired by the gameplay, the humor, and the charm of their favorite gamer. (mellow music)