It's like you don't feel that big of a difference, right now. Single item box, oh, that could be through not taking even good lines, just being No, no, I might lose. My acceleration is so bad. Come on, yes! oh, oh, I barely won vehicle anytime. Anytime it's like, can I do and I have no acceleration here, so I'm just Let's try this one more time. Oh, thank you, thank you, that actually tech. I'm just gonna have to try my best to Like, ah, drifting is not really gonna work. oh, I'm in first with the mushroom. Oh, All right, that's fine, that's fine. Oh, goodbye Rosalina. How are you oh, oh, oh [Music] oh did I just win Waluigi Pinball? All right, Smart steering, smart steering, yes. I totally look at that. Hang on, hang on, wait a Oh, get destroyed! The green shell cracked I'm not even gonna trick. I knew I was gonna hit it is worse than any other combo, but oh, that is so bad. [laughs] What? What? That worked! Get you okay, whatever. What? I'm Baby Rosalina is completely unviable. I hit the Rosalina? Yes, get rid Is it right here? That was the smallest shortcut okay, that was really good. Oh! Come on, Are you actually kidding me? [laughs] Who is that? Shortcat imposter? No, no, no, get out of here. inside drift and just join me onto my little and you get hit. [laughs] Oh, that was a terrible Just sniped myself. I'm gonna be so mean Bowser three times. Oh no [laughs] I'm so sorry, Cherry, you don't deserve that that's the sport bike. Okay, okay, we Which Shortcat is better at inside drift? that bullet went just a little bit too far. I I think I would have gotten fourth place. Shock. Oh, this is good. I'm and just like that, we're in fifth, we are in second, we are in first with Shock on a track with shortcuts is That was complete luck. That was--this entire mushroom now and then just boo. I do not want Oh, and I dodged the shock. What? Okay, I don't behind me that dodged the shock as well. All you kidding me? Please fail the shortcut, someone. ugh star interacting with this track. Oh, I Okay, we'll just chain it right here. Try to hit Never mind, I forgot about blue shell. Oh, wait, mushroom. Smart steering, smart steering, so through the section relatively quickly with smart I'm just gonna hold it. Are you kidding me? Oh, no, I had that. I so had--wait, what? I still got first? You guys suck. But look at that. I fell off. Oh, it's over. Oh, wait, two! First place plays the exact same combo as we top four, wow. I can mess up and get second, is gonna get first, and that's totally fine, it it doesn't matter who actually got first as long but I'm still in first because I'm on the Oh, that was so close to getting stolen. Oh, used the boomerang and then the mushroom [laughs] I was going completely backwards and then goofy race. Okay, so we're gonna--oh, I got triple Okay, I didn't have good alignment for the next And so if I take the ending shortcut, yes, [laughs] let's go! Oh I still have an item, but they're invincible. I okay, so we're gonna hopefully pass people okay, of course, and we're going backwards, we're [Music] What? What hit me? [Music] What? Waluigi's--oh, I've never lost on Oh, that bomb. Come on, come on, blue shell, Land. I can't help myself. I'm just gonna wait I'm gonna go for the best strategy in the Let's go here. Please don't pass-- why is everyone Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's going, baby. [laughs] All right, we're in first with It's Cheese Land. but that was only lap two. If I and I didn't want to accidentally, you know--sorry, Okay, so defense items would be cool, I'm gonna I'm gonna do this never-before-seen I messed it up. It's okay, the shock so we're good. Definitely the most peaceful doing this shortcut with one mushroom, I've you like hop and then like do that or something. forward and I can dodge the red shell, and you Fourth place. Okay, okay. I would love to do this any video yet. It goes something like this. Like this. Yeah, that is such a cool shortcut. it's a bagging track, it's gonna be hard to the back is mushrooms. Here, let's--oh no, what the Okay, all right, that's all I have to say double box you're getting is this one right single boxes for the rest of the race. Oh, no, Oh, what? What? How did I not get hit Is--is that related to the invincibility stat? whole bunch of characters and vehicle parts, and Oh no! What? What? Where am I going? Sideways? in that section. I am gonna lose. This is so That bullet's gonna find a way to What? That can happen? It's one point of I would not have main this combo, which is good I couldn't hit the Isabelle with all of my fire, and I got her, that was so funny. Alright, so we alright. Well, I'm saving this for a blue shell in that train is so generous. I did not get hit booed twice. That's both of my mushrooms. Alright, No, I meant--I meant to bomb myself. This is so bad. They're taking my they went the wrong way because Oh, I was the better player there. I'm Alright, nice, nice. That is way faster than this is a huge bullet. Look, look, I'm Ah, no, no. I'm so tempted to use the star this might look really dumb, this might be really I'm not using it, I'm not using it. I'm so to dodge a shock right now. Bam, yes! Okay, okay. going for the shortcut. You can do the shortcut off. I can bullet I'm not gonna fall off for sure. I'm not going up there. I'm not messing with that Please tell me that hit. No, I don't think it at first here depending on what item I get. I keep messing this up. I got first [laughs] Oh geez, this combo is so busted. Take that, new meta now. So, we have a mushroom here, too far behind oh no, but I grew first, okay. oh, stupid--oh my [laughs] both of the red I think I should just wait here, this is the best there, holy. I'm getting last! My only hope now is a shock and everyone Okay, I got second last. Wow. But why-- No, I lost my red, my mushrooms. Okay, nothing threw a red shell or something. Wow. Okay, see this person here? It's a girl with guarantee you--I would bet you--that this is So we're gonna see if that's true. Wait, please. I literally had it out. game. That--that's like glitch level of Okay, and I'm getting absolutely killed here. The item--okay, this is really bad. It's Getting destroyed here. Goodbye. Sorry, Taking blue path again. Oooh I could take yes! Oooh first place, that's what you Wasn't even coming for me because oh, there's a blue shell, I think it's too Oh, oh, oh, yes! [laughs] that before. But I probably have seconds the blue shell--what? The blue shell takes the now. So, it looks like everyone's half a lap ahead there's a shock or I get the shock, or I can dodge because there's so many shortcuts on this track there we go, there we go. Okay, the comeback's in first place, but I don't know if they're gonna how far back everyone else is--oh no. Okay, it's I'm just gonna use the bullet into the Okay, cool. I'm gonna get it. Yes! [laughs] there's a victory. Nothing can take this from giant lead. Look at how good these players I think I got him. Oh, they got that was a good throw. Toss that. Oh What? Where's the Mach 8? Oh my--I I'm not gonna get to my combo in time. Oh [Music]. Yeah, that combo So scary, everyone's near me. [laughs] Why don't you stay at the wrecked three people with my--wait, I got that If the blue shell came slightly later, I actually Let's crack some people. [laughs] I feel like and if you're the one getting destroyed, take this shortcut now. There's there's a blue shell, but it's not gonna reach What the heck? Invincibility, please, oh! I stayed on. I wasn't--I didn't have smart at the start of the track, so I'm just gonna I don't need a bullet here. So I'm just gonna Okay, so I'll be invincible for a long Okay, okay, okay. Come on, come on. Big shortcuts. golden mushrooms would be the best thing I could Please no one red shell me. No I green shelled I threw that by accident. That's gonna hit me. and I'll never know what it was. Just watch as that's great. That's exactly what I needed right No! Lemmy! Threats everywhere. Okay, last I can come back. No, no, no, that's fine, that's No! Why does Lemmy keep getting hit? I think These triple greens are pretty good. I do not we're getting rid of these greens. I threw one So, I actually have some water speed is the funny water speed in the game, but it doesn't add up metal tires, and waddling glider. The better is skilled enough to hit the cloud. Somehow There's a blue shell. Oh, I hit them too. I'm causing havoc right now. Oh my, this is the behind me catches up and then just hits something. blue shell. That strategy I said of just hitting that. That's the only way I keep--that's the only What? Oh, this is too good. No I'm on the lowest handling vehicle. Let's see how U-turn goes. I'm not going to take the shroomless Are you kidding me? No. What is this? I can't do is we're gonna start this golden mushroom-- oh shortcuts and go all the way to the front. And I'm [laughs] Look at that, I have a giant lead. I just have to not get hit because my acceleration this is how you play if you want to use the worst really is not going to be a problem at all here Oh no, I'm bagging. It put me all the way, all even funny. As much as this is a great bagging my results here by forcing myself to frontrun. I now I can actually try to just like do some not work. What is that? That's a red shell. was nothing I could do about that. Oh, look No, I got 10th. I will go so far as to bag on I guarantee you my result will be better. I'll by doing something this stupid. I'm taking the taking the top path. No, my item got stolen. Don't hit me, car, don't hit me. No, what's Today I'm with my good friend Rod, and we are 20. Let's go, let's go! Hey Rod [laughs] Hey man. okay. oh, there was a hidden banana that I No, I ran into the wall because I'm Petey Piranha. Oh, that's you in first? Okay, then we're good, I messed up, I messed up. Oh, my hitbox Oh yes, I got first! We're getting what? We did it. Wait, that was our first try. So I landed on the track. Uh, I almost didn't all right, fine, fine. I'll do it. I'll bag. Okay, here. This is why you don't need acceleration. matter. I just stopped racing. Okay, you don't Wow, I almost won! Step two: waste your items item. A shock. Oh no, do I just win? I'm so never run Cheese Land, never dodged the shock with a shock. Ah, I definitely place. So I'm scared someone else shocks me or a it. Yeah, almost no one dodged it. Wow, I just ever! Let's see if we have any bullets coming-- ah, my lead is too big! Nice! [laughs] Wow, this race is really working out for me. Oh, that was still a bit weird. Okay, no, and then we can-- [laughs] There's a blue shell I saw the blue shell. I was, I was like, yes! Shock! What? [laughs] Oh, this is I think first place doesn't have an item [laughs] Okay. I tried to go around first place so and it worked, but then it went this has been such a good race. I should be they backed me. Yup. Wow, so many threats at the race I don't think I've had a roller coaster