When it came to the US at millennium, the hybrid revolutionary step toward It wasn't exactly exotic celebrities loved its ordinary, cash strapped exceptional fuel economy. At a time when gasoline to record highs. But since then, EVs have all electric with Vehicles, the. Tesla model Y becoming the California. While EVs stole the show, for bringing hybrids to extensive criticism from being slow to adopt EVs tougher climate have slowed in the US, 25 days at the beginning over a year later. Meanwhile, hybrids are than even plain internal winning awards. Hybrid sales grew five February 2024. Automakers are finally They're realizing that cars right now, not in And that's this is what Automakers, including some commitments to go all back on EV manufacturing But hybrids aren't as reducing greenhouse Defenders say they are a solution. Automakers, made bold commitments to pulling back on EV hybrids. Ev sales in the US had a In 2023, a record 1.2 Their market share is reported slowdown is Data shows sales growth One of the reasons legacy an EV sales slowdown has price cuts throughout automakers are still especially standard ones You get a hybrid off of A lot of times that has a customer, so it's actually having to sell. Comparing January 2023 and that hybrids continue to internal combustion Look no further than the hybrid to the mainstream Toyota Pro EV and the world's largest lobbying to slow the EV on, though it has electric vehicles before. The company has long full electrification will most consumers aren't vehicles. That said, it to release 30 EV models sales target of 3.5 In January 2023, Toyota shareholder proposal in Investors insisted the climate change and reappointment of chairman The proposal was defeated seat, but he did step as of early 2024. Toyota has only two EVs, volumes, but in 2023, plug ins increased nearly year. They make up about Behemoth's portfolio. Nothing has really framework of product we have continued to say succinctly. A year ago we Today we were being We're not swayed by Toyota's American rival Ford, has been selling larger volumes. Sales of its acclaimed F-150 lightning climbed compared to the previous Hybrids still outpaced a quarter. Ford CEO Jim would postpone about $12 investment and pull back electric F-150 pickup in Success is a part of why to jump back in, because brands have success with much demand. And not only they're selling at MSRP While Toyota may have hybrid, General Motors to America in the form of Chevrolet Volt. From an EV perspective, we to really execute and see So it's it's a strong I'm really proud of the But in early 2024, the reintroduce plug in American lineup. If you look at their core people infrastructure is where they are living. If they have folks that dealerships with their vehicles, it's going to get these people into them into EVs. Automakers are under great continually tightening standards. A single an average target of 58 That is 18% higher than miles by 2026. The EPA also issued that call for 35 to 56% 2032, with US household board and gasoline prices dollars per gallon on Hybrid vehicles offer a Ice. Vehicles are losing are flattening. The early adopters, and many ready for the mainstream. Basically, in the last 0% of the industry to 8%. So we're about a ten year The government's we've gone from 0 to 8% the next eight years, 60%, not grow by 60%. We're going to take that People are saying, wait, going to buy those right As we move towards mass lot harder to sell to. conscious, a lot more They have a lot more Um, and I think that's EV adoption rate for, for And that was always going On average, EVs were the you could buy in early Plug in hybrids were Standard hybrids were including Ice vehicles. I think right now in this affordability crisis But I think auto is being look at how people have past, it's been because And now that is not the The average interest rate over 7% used. It's over 11%. So when we look at what is less than what we It's a tough pill to Ice vehicle. Or even a hybrid vehicle month and a Bev at 9 or That's that's a Evs have strong selling They are simpler and the cost of charging is a parts of the country higher. But there are relatively long charging public charging But a lot of folks say, I of owning an EV. Like my complicated enough. I whole new system of doing go places that I want to It's easy to put on a Hey, I spent X amount of amount of electricity. ahead of the game in 18 but a convenience factor It's an idea that I might away for a vacation once I don't want to take That convenience factor consumer 100% out of the be quantified. 83% of EV charging occurs power data shows that 1 have a home charger, nor one. The firm runs a mix vehicles, including a survey of 30,000 and D.C.. The most common to buy an EV is the lack Ev owners say public least satisfying aspect experience. Nearly 20% of public charger, they Most of the time, that is failing or number of times a station is too long has doubled failures in just two While EV adoption has hit expects demand to fall or Globally, EV production 13,000,000 in 20 24 to 30 hybrids are only expected million in the US, EVs in the coming decade. We're still very bullish where the market is going You look at the made in vehicle manufacturers. I think terms of where the market is going to go, an Standard hybrids are gas cars, supplemented electric motor that economy. This is what the what many hybrids are Plug in hybrids have a at least one electric in theory, be run without Like an EV, the engine in others the engine and Motor work. Together. With a plug in hybrid or a to largely avoid that You're eliminating what owning an electric There has been a slight models available compared since 2019. Still, though, they are cars in terms of market especially cheap. On average, they cost They also don't offer a full EV. You still have maintain the internal you have to buy gas when alone. Plug in hybrids the range found on a full In essence, what you're different product into one. But it's it's category all that well. In other words, it might worlds, but it does being able to rely on driving, but having the The EPA electric range on 44 miles. The average American That's why you're seeing the competitors. You are to discuss it, but as a bridge strategy. You're hearing them the best valued strategy. I want to make sure we're of of momentum around has been learned about Another issue with plug can be driven entirely on A 2022 study from the Clean Transportation, a alternative powertrains, be driving on electric one might assume from EPA fuel consumption may be The study did note that size was small and more Plug in hybrids are great As we talked about, not So so the theoretical the practical one. J.d. power has found that charging their vehicles five times a week on that electric range about Despite concerns some best available option for to EVs. You have to convince a not a disruptor to their it is you introduce it to not an all you can eat Gil Towle, a professor at differently. Plug ins as a bridge technology, a would obsolesce as EVs While they certainly can may stick around a lot last 20 or 30% of the make the full leap to California, which plans internal combustion allowing 20% of all new to be plug in hybrids. For a very short while, we full electric Bev battery to get us to 100% or the I think we are learning going to be hard. So as long as we are sales, 30% of the sales, electric. But when we closer to 80, it's hard. And and then plug make sense.