- This is a &quot;perpetual motion&quot; device. That's the first time I've in one of my videos. But it's important to put perpetual motion in inverted commas because Actually, the designer of this device calls it a perpetual motion simulator. I quite like that. Actually, I quite like perpetual motion simulators in general because we know that perpetual so it's fun to try and figure And in this particular case, the trick is some really To be clear, I don't like that are designed to scam people. The list of those is endless, but the creator of this device is very clear that it needs batteries. In fact, I did some bookkeeping after buying all the stuff for this video, and I chuckled at these two entries, perpetual motion machine by batteries for perpetual motion machine. To figure out how this works, and thankfully through the I already have a taken And that's the second time in one of my videos. The idea was to remove the wooden base and replace it with a transparent I like to make transparent The problem was when we put we couldn't get it working again. So while this is good for it's a bit unsatisfying because And then I thought, &quot;Wait a second, why don't I try and contact the William Le was very helpful giving advice on how to get this thing So eventually I asked if And so here is my third Isn't it beautiful? I'm hugely grateful to William He took the time to figure out how to work with unfamiliar materials, and the result is fantastic. By the way, William is the There've been hundreds of knockoffs since, but if you're planning I really hope that you'll The link to William's Etsy So let's figure out how this thing works. Well, even without looking inside, we can make some educated guesses. Without the device turned on, you can see the losses due to friction. Gravitational potential energy and that kinetic energy is turned back into But look how much less there is after that process. So when the device is turned on, the ball must be given some at some point. And the only thing I can And in this transparent version, But that's not enough on its own. If you simply turn on the electromagnet, well, the steel ball will but once it reaches the electromagnet, it'll be harder to leave. This is what happens when in place of the electromagnet. So the electromagnet needs and then off once the That's where this component comes in. This is an inductive proximity sensor. Actually, no. This is an This is one of these that's so that it'll fit inside The way it works is when you an oscillating current passes which induces an You might know that a induces a current in nearby metals. Well, an oscillating magnetic field is changing all the time. So when the steel ball approaches, an oscillating current Now that oscillating electric has an oscillating And the way the physics works out, that induced magnetic field actually opposes the So as the ball approaches, the total magnetic field goes down. That's detected by the sensor But for the purposes of this circuit, it also sends a signal So now we can have the when the ball gets to a certain position. We can then decide like how long do we want the I've attached a voltmeter so you can see a voltage is supplied to the electromagnet for Final couple of things I wanna look at. What are these things? You really need to give that So instead of powering it you charge up these capacitors I'm not sure how long it takes to charge up these capacitors, but if you send two balls the second ball doesn't make it. But if you leave a little then they both come back to the top. And actually looking at the the capacitors don't So you can imagine it to get them back where you want them before the next ball arrives. These two blue components are important. They allow you to adjust a couple of the parameters of the device. You tweak the top one if you want to adjust the and you tweak the bottom one if you want to adjust how long And these are important because each one of these There's gonna be a slight variation in the distance between the length of the track and so on. So you need to be able after it's all put together. I mean, you don't have to. William does it before he sends it. The final thing is the power button. You know, you really don't want your perpetual motion machine It kind of spoils the So here under the acrylic, you When you touch it, you're adding the capacitance of your body to that little bit of acrylic there. That sensor can detect and the circuitry interprets And so in the wooden version, it's as if there is no power button. On the subject of occasionally I'll make a some physical principle and there'll be a discussion &quot;Would it be possible to so that the thing keeps spinning forever or the thing keeps bouncing Things like that. A good example is my video about What if you had two magnets so that the ballerina just in a circle? But actually you'll notice in that video, I'm always moving my hand. The magnet is always to the ballerina, and the ballerina is getting And of course, the ballerina is pushing back against my My hand is moving some distance in the direction of an applied force, so there's no free energy to be had here. And of course, there's no unless you don't pay for your electricity. perpetually smooth jazz And thankfully through the And thankfully through the I already have a taken I picked up the wrong one. I used to get these phone &quot;Hello, am I speaking to Steven Mould of such and such address?&quot; &quot;Yes, that's me, that's my address.&quot; And they say, &quot;I'm calling Okay, they know my details. They must be calling from of my insurers. But then you carry on the conversation, it turns out they're just trying or something like that. It's really interesting to know how these annoying It's also interesting to know how you can stop this kind of phone call and other intrusions into your life thanks to the sponsor Basically, it comes down to called data brokers. There's hundreds of them, and they all collect data about to companies like insurance department. And then those people send you mail in the post. You can contact these data but they want to be Maybe it's an email, and it has to include And there's hundreds of them. It's almost impossible for one So wouldn't it be great that did all the legwork in advance, figuring out how all these and then automated it so that and say, &quot;Can you do And that's how Incogni works. You sign up, you give them and then they contact and it just happens in the background. If you want, you can log in Look, these are all the companies that no longer have my Like I don't get those and I don't get the kind of spam that seems weirdly If you're interested in the service, the promo on this one's really good. The first 100 people to and use promo code science The link is also in the description. So check out Incogni today. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe, and the algorithm thinks (lively music)