Hi, I'm Vance and welcome to Repair and Replace. Multimeters are an essential tool for testing Whether its checking a battery, extension multimeters can help determine exactly what has failed. If you've never used a digital multimeter then this episode will get you started. First we'll review how electricity works. Then we'll learn how to test for continuity. Finally we'll do some safe voltage tests and Lets begin. To understand what a multimeter can measure, Electricity is the movement of electrons from The flow of electrons through a wire is somewhat Voltage or potential difference is the that pushes the electrons Current or amperage is the flow of electrons Resistance measured in ohms is the amount Conductors have low resistance allowing electrons Insulators have an extremely high resistance For example copper wire is insulated by a If we connect these wires together to a power Batteries provide direct current or DC power This is represented by a dashed line on the Your home runs off 120 volts alternating current The direction that the current flows is changing This is represented by the sine wave. In either case the electrons always need a This is continuity, or a closed circuit. If we disrupt this path with rubber, plastic, the electrons will not flow, This is an open circuit. In many cases the lack of continuity will prevent an appliance from To setup the multimeter, plug the meter leads Usually they are color coded red for positive Some meters will have 2 positive terminals. One terminal is for voltage and resistance, Always inspect the multimeter before use. Never use a multimeter that or test leads with nicked To be safe, always hold the multimeter from Even 120 volts in your home can be deadly If you're unsure at any point, Your model might look a little different but Volts AC, Volts DC, resistance in Ohms, which will beep when As well you can test for capacitance, amps Some multimeters are auto-ranging and will In other models you'll have to set the multimeter For example if we test continuity and we get a reading of 2.6, To test a component for continuity, or resistance Safely disconnect the power, and remove the Now remove the component or isolate it. Next touch each probe to each component terminal. If there is no continuity then the multimeter This means the component will need to be replaced. If there is continuity you'll get a reading between load or non-load components. Non-load components such as switches, provide an unrestricted path for These will typically have a resistance reading Load components include or any component that They will need a specific resistance value For example oven bake elements commonly have Whereas hot surface ignitors This is different for each component and will If you want to learn more about the various then watch the video linked below. As well continuity tests troubleshooting other electrical items This includes extension cords, light switches, The volts DC setting can be used to test batteries For example a fully charged AA battery whereas a weak battery will be much lower at By setting the multimeter to volts AC you and is wired correctly. The small plug is the hot wire that is providing The larger plug is the neutral wire which The rounded plug is the ground wire. If at any point a hot wire touches the ground wire provides a safe When testing live voltage it's essential Always start with the neutral wire first before If you connect to the hot side first, the which increases the risk of a shock. Testing from neutral to hot will show approximately Testing from ground to hot will also show This will verify if the ground wire has a When testing from neutral to ground there If there is a 120 volt reading then the receptacle or there could be A standard multimeter can be useful for testing but in most cases it's not safe and it's in your appliances or in Clamp meters can detect the magnetic fields to be measured without cutting any wires. These meters are more expensive and require Its best to leave these tests to the professionals. For more troubleshooting on then subscribe to our channel. And if you need help, you can call to talk with our knowledgeable staff. Thanks for watching.