Robert: So, what I wanted to create in my school. And I got into one of the best film schools what it takes to make a film. And I very quickly realized I didn't want Have you ever had that where you work so hard you realize you didn't want it? And the thing I really realized was that I my life to be a movie, right? I wanted to go on great adventures. I wanna get the girl. I want huge arcs of character transformations. I wanna save the world. And I did a lot of that, I change, not just With these arcs, my mentor actually taught you have three years there max. Because the first year you spend learning kicking ass, and the third year you do the So if you're working for somebody else, it according to my mentor at least. But, I don't know, I'm all about creating are so supportive, like at Zappos where we stay there. In fact, at Zappos, we actually intentionally a place that's up 24 hours, that's weird, culture there. And Vishen has really done that with Mindvalley, So, here's the other thing I realized about not only wanted my life to be a movie, I want I want them to be real. And so I decided to take my favorite movie So, this of course is the famous scene in the blue pill to stay in his current world So, I thought, &quot;What if, what if, what if What if we could make it real?&quot; And I thought, &quot;Where is the environment, What's the best environment you can think Anybody wanna guess? Man: AFS. Robert: AFS? Not a bad one. Yeah, I tried this one. Burning Man. Yeah, this is a place that's just so weird know what, I wanna have a party on a cruise Then that can happen. You can do that. So, what I did was I took red Tic Tacs and took them out to Burning Man. And I put little phrases on there that said, &quot;I want to know my reality.&quot; And so, when I first got to Burning Man, I I said, &quot;You know what, I'm gonna be of service. That's what I wanna do. I hear you're of service and it's gonna be So I went to all these individual people and Can I help you? Can I help you?&quot; And everybody was like, &quot;No, we're good, we're I said, &quot;What?&quot; I was bummed. And so then I decided to finally, you know, day, and I said, &quot;I want to know reality.&quot; And I swallowed it. And what was interesting, the instant I swallowed I don't actually, the only reason I'm trying And what if I just dropped the whole service to feeling loved?&quot; And I had the best time after that, a lot And I went up to people and I said, &quot;Do you And people started having their own little And it's funny too, because I went to other reality, get that shit away from me.&quot; And I was like, &quot;It's a tic tac.&quot; But this is the power of it. We believe it's real, right? And I gave it to a psychologist and she took and said, &quot;Hey, do you have any more of those I said, &quot;Yeah, why?&quot; She's like, &quot;I'm using it with my psychology So, can I get some more?&quot; And so I said, all right, maybe this isn't the gap to the real world here. So then I thought, all right, let's take it Let's use some red vitamins, but let's make And I put it on Facebook to my friends. I said, &quot;If you believe, if you think the it as real, leave a comment.&quot; And then I asked for their address. And I created this cool like secret book package instructions and I sent it out like this mythical And I told them to do the wake-up-to-the-reality Like I wanted to see how far we could take For something like Ronita, what you wanted you want. And we created a Facebook group, a private And so people would open up their boxes, I'd really interesting comments back through it. One person said, &quot;For me, this served to keep serve as a sort of focusing tool, like when new car, you start seeing it everywhere. Relevance, right? Another, &quot;Each day gets stronger and stronger. I'm finding distractions fading away much In the past, I would sometimes get caught Now I'm finding them lessening. I make quick decisions and move on them.&quot; Another, &quot;I moved into a neighbor that I always years, stopped watching TV and began reading.&quot; This is in 30 days. &quot;The most notable thing I've seen is the shift back into my intuition.&quot; So, what's going on here? Right? How does this work? And I don't, the honest answer, I don't know. Here's some theories though, is that it's It's an archetype. So, think about it this way, Young told us us through images, through symbols, and we But what if we talk back to it through a symbol? Because each of us here knows that a pill A pill changes us. It's also the context. We created support, we created community around it. This is a really interesting one. You can't take it back when you take a pill. Because you could say, you know, &quot;Oh, I wanna cancel.&quot; Nope. Right? But if you take that pill with that intention your mind, because once you swallow it, you're Like you experience new emotions with it. And I think it's doing something around aligning And I started to think, &quot;How can I tap into Because it can't be the red pill, that's &quot;The This is something different. People aren't waking up in spaceships, right? They're not waking up in spaceships. But interestingly enough, some of them were is when you first do it, it's not exactly It can bring up a lot of shit. So I tapped in and I got this idea from my about needing to rename this pill into something He said, &quot;Why don't you take the pill to figure So I sat, I took it, I said, &quot;All right, with name. I swallow it. I sat down and then all these names were coming And one was just crystal clear, The X Pill. The X Pill, because X is whatever it is to There is no set-in intention with it. So, the next beta test came with these new Because, there's a quote from Ken Wilber who He said, &quot;Blue pill or red pill, why not take That's what we do in the 60s.&quot; And I thought, you know, what happens when It makes Purple. So, what if you could wake up and you could would that shit be, right? Yes. So, got more bottles, put the purple pills happening. I'd worked at it with my friend, David, and I said, &quot;What do you want?&quot; He said, &quot;I wanna be rich.&quot; I said, &quot;Why?&quot; It's important to know your why, right? Symix the next work. Why? He said, &quot;Because I wanna leave a legacy.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, how are you gonna do that?&quot; &quot;I gotta start creating products. I've been sitting on this product idea for And his wife's right there next to him and He's not like, he's always playing his video It's terrible.&quot; And, you know, they start kind of having this And he says, &quot;Yeah, I really wanna do it.&quot; And I said, &quot;Okay, what's really holding you He said, &quot;I don't have the right equipment.&quot; Really? Do you have an iPhone? You can do an audio product if you have an And so we finally got to this point where create this audio product.&quot; And we sat there, and he swallows it and immediately And has this experience, lets it go. I said, &quot;Okay, great.&quot; I said, &quot;When do you want to have it by?&quot; He said two weeks, and he built that into And, by the way, just to settle my mind, I Like, if that was, I'm sorry, I didn't mean Anyway. So, I call him up later about it and I said, you said?&quot; He said, &quot;No, I got it done in two days.&quot; My friend, Rob, he said, we went through the the why. And he said, &quot;I want to start a photography I said, &quot;Great. What do you need?&quot; &quot;Photography website.&quot; I told him the story about David. He said, &quot;I want it tomorrow.&quot; I said, &quot;Okay, great.&quot; And he's about to take it for that, and he Resistance often comes up. And he says, &quot;I'll be up all night and I don't I said, &quot;Okay, let's build another pill. I will get the website done by tomorrow and Swallows it. Shoots up, shoots me a video on the way home day, says, &quot;I got it done. Three in the morning. Got it done with energy the next day.&quot; Second day, he calls me up and says, &quot;I got Yeah. My friend, Brian, talked for seven years about he's got a trip to Japan. Danielle, talked about quitting her job a Suddenly quit her job. I thought, &quot;Oh no, this is gonna be horrible.&quot; &quot;You and your pill, I shouldn't have done This was stupid.&quot; There, my voice again. I'm sorry I'm doing women's voices like that. I don't know why it's just coming out. I'm just a bad impressionist, that's all. And my friend, Holly, this is really fascinating. So, we took it together on our New Year's my life.&quot; And she takes it. All this energy and panic comes up around and what's interesting is she very soon after two things I told you about before, cleaning, all the things she had to do that she didn't Creating that space, right? Two months later, meets the man of her dreams, later this year. And here's where it gets really weird, is, this artwork that she did with her kids that They would somehow be communicating in this and she pulls out this drawing that a kid It says, &quot;Love potion&quot; misspelled on one side Bizarre. Right? Boom. So, what if you don't believe it? Right? And now, keep in mind, I wanna tell you, since this is, everybody who takes it knows there's The first one was tic tacs, the second one And I'm not deceiving people, I'm not about I tell them clearly what it is. The purple one that I saw made there, it's And I want people to be clear on it, because symptoms, they think I gave them some kind But it's not. And so some people say, &quot;Well yeah, well,&quot; to work and they really believe it will work. So, what if you don't believe in it? Great question. My friend, David, he said, &quot;I want to make I want to spend more time on Bizdev.&quot; He holds the pill in his hand. He looks me in the eye and says, &quot;Look, you're I want to tell you, I don't believe this will I said, &quot;I'm all about experimenting. Let's see what happens.&quot; So, he takes it, he swallows it, and he's, pouring out of his face and he just looks And I said, &quot;I don't know, but something.&quot; And he didn't actually get those things done. But I think part of the pill, the X pill, up. You know, Rob, who I mentioned before, the after that, he told me, two or four weeks, He got it done. I checked in with him about it. He said, &quot;Yeah, I've closed the business and I swore, &quot;Are you kidding?&quot; He said, &quot;Yeah, I've been thinking about it When I finally did it,&quot; like me with film wanted and I realized what I do actually want.&quot; So, next came this. So, I got it made up, made it look as real It's just 500 milligrams rice powder if you And that was when I took it to this group Leadership Council. It's a group started by Jack Canfield. I've got a few members here. Woman: I know, Doug. Just taking the photo. Robert: Oh, yeah, there's Doug there, the So, what I did there was explain to them everything preacher mode. And what we did was we got people on stage the process. So, this guy, Arjuna, does anybody know Arjuna? Audience: Yes. Robert: Yes. Amazing guy. A