The world is full of mysterious artifacts that spark fascination and debate. Strange objects that seem designed for fantasy books. They are masterpieces of ancient civilizations. They were discovered after centuries buried or have remained almost unchanged by the passage of time. Today we take an extraordinary tour of intriguing artifacts that humans have built throughout their history. We will explore archaeological objects, but also other finds that have sparked controversy. Sanxingdui heads They were found in 1986, at the Sanxingdui archaeological site, in China. They are estimated to be at least three and a half thousand years old, although they may be even older. The faces have strange features, with bulging eyes and large ears. In addition to heads and masks, this culture made exquisite bronze sculptures and objects for ceremonial use. Other pieces found are shaped like animals. They combined bronze and gold with other materials, such as jade and ivory, indicating that they had access to exotic raw materials. Since the discovery of these heads, Sanxingdui became a great archaeological enigma, since there are no records that explain the origin or fall of this culture. Vasa Ship This Swedish warship is the only ship from the 17th century that has been preserved almost intact. It spent 333 years under the sea, until in 1961 it was rescued in an astonishing display of engineering. Despite having been sunken for more than 3 centuries, it is well preserved, thanks to the low salinity of the Baltic Sea and its low temperatures. In the stern there are sculptures carved in wood. The holes from where the cannons came out have reliefs of lions. Statuettes of El Obeid They belong to the culture of El Obeid, who lived in Mesopotamia about 7 thousand years ago. Some have elongated heads, almond-shaped eyes and thin bodies. It is thought that they were used in religious rituals, representing gods. It has also been suggested that the reptilian-looking figures represent some belief of the time. Voynich Manuscript Its writing is indecipherable, although it has the Latin calligraphy that was used in Western Europe between the 15th and 16th centuries. This writing is supposed to be about obscurantism and alchemy, although it is not known who wrote it. The illustrations show plants and herbs, strange astronomical diagrams, and unknown plumbing systems. None of the plants reproduced seem to correspond to real plant species. It has several sections, such as pharmaceutical, herbal, astronomical or biological. This sheet details what is believed to be the process of formation of a stellar fusion core. Piri Reis Maps are a series of world maps created by the Ottoman cartographer Piri Reis in the 16th century. They suggest that their creator had access to knowledge that predated official European discoveries. This is one of the maps, which appears to show Antarctica in great geographical detail. At the bottom, Australia appears to be illustrated, officially discovered two centuries after the creation of this map. In this other map by Piri Reis, South America is interpreted, with details of the Brazilian coast. In the upper area you can see what appears to be a whale hunt. In South America there are monkeys and in the Andes mountain range a strange creature. Deformed skulls It is a practice of several ancient cultures in South America, Africa, Europe and Asia. It involved the manipulation of children's skulls through the use of boards, bandages or specific devices. In this fresco you can see the daughters of Akhenaten and Nefertiti, kings of Egypt, who would have gone through the process to indicate their social status. In other cultures, it was believed that cranial deformation gave special qualities, such as greater intelligence or a closer connection with the divine. Atacama Skeleton A small, naturally mummified skeleton was found in the Atacama Desert, Chile, in 2003. It had an elongated skull and a series of physical anomalies that indicated genetic mutations. At first it was thought to be an extraterrestrial, but rigorous DNA testing confirmed its human origin. Birka Artifacts In one of the tombs at the archaeological site of Birka, in Sweden, a particular ring was found. It has an inscription in Kufic Arabic that says: "For Allah." Crosses and pendants from Thor's hammer were found in other tombs. They were used as amulets or ornaments, common in Viking Sweden from the 8th and 9th centuries. Dogu They are humanoid clay figures belonging to prehistoric Japan. Most have been found in eastern Japan, with no information about their usefulness. Some experts indicate that they are portraits of people, and others that they were used as amulets in ritual magic. Gobekli Tepe engravings About 11 thousand years old, it is one of the oldest sanctuaries in the world, excavated in Turkey. On the pillars there are engravings of animals and strange figures. Their meaning is uncertain, and they could be religious or cosmological symbols. Crystal Skulls It has been claimed that these quartz skulls come from ancient North American cultures. They are carved with great precision, which for some would not be possible with primitive tools. There is a skull in the British Museum in London, and another in the Museum of Man, in Paris. However, analysis has revealed that they were carved with tools from the 18th and 19th centuries, supposedly being fakes made to attract private collectors. Karahan Tepe Face It is located in an archaeological site about 11 thousand years old, in Turkey. It shows that prehistoric societies had a high level of social organization. It is believed to represent a religious deity or ancestor. Dendera Zodiac It was discovered on the roof of the temple of Hathor, in Egypt. Features a detailed representation of the night sky, with zodiac signs, constellations, planets and stars. It combines traditional Egyptian symbols with elements of the Greek zodiac, exhibiting a cultural mix. Some researchers believe that it is a star map or a tool for astrological prediction. Mask of King Pakal It was discovered in the tomb of King Pakal the Great, who ruled the Mayan city of Palenque, in Mexico. It is made of jade, a highly valued material in the Mayan culture. It was intended to cover the king's face, symbolizing the transformation on his journey to the underworld. Some have claimed that the sarcophagus shows a pilot in a spaceship, but archaeologists do not support this theory. Horvat Duma Masks They are considered the oldest masks in the world, about 9 thousand years old, found in the Judean mountains. It is believed that they were sculpted by the first farmers in history. Little is known about their origin, but it is suspected that they were used in funerary rituals. Pyramidion of Amenemhat III These are the remains of the Black Pyramid, tomb of the third pharaoh Amenemhat, built about four thousand years ago. Today only ruins remain of it. It is made of basalt, with its faces inscribed with hieroglyphics. Its excellent state of preservation made archaeologists think that it was never actually at the top of the pyramid. Lamanai Masks They are enormous sculptures of human faces, with an incredible level of detail. This Belize jungle temple was built by the Mayans in the 5th century, and the masks were added centuries later. Its style is similar to that of the Olmec culture. In another nearby building, in the Jaguar Temple, there is a stone sculpture in the shape of a jaguar head. Death blowing bubbles This bas-relief belongs to a medieval artistic genre called "dance of death" or "Vanitas". The idea was to indicate to the viewer that death comes to everyone, without distinction of any kind. It is located on the roof of the chapel of the Holy Tomb, in Michaelsberg Abbey, in Germany. Shroud of Turin It has been one of the most controversial objects since its discovery in the 14th century. It is a linen cloth with the image of a man believed to be Jesus, although its origin is not scientifically proven. When photographing the negative image, details such as marks from a crown of thorns were noticed. Many Christians, especially Catholics, believe that it is the sheet that wrapped Christ after his death and before his resurrection. Antikythera Mechanism It is considered the first analog computer in history, created two thousand one hundred years ago, currently exhibited in the Archaeological Museum of Athens. Predicted solar and lunar eclipses accurately. The bronze gears are so sophisticated that something similar was not seen in Europe until the 14th century, when the first astronomical clocks were made. Baghdad Battery It could be one of the first sources of electrical energy, dating back about two thousand years. It was a small clay vessel that contained an iron rod and a copper cylinder. It has been theorized that it was used to generate a small amount of electrical current, but its actual purpose is unknown. Krishna's Butter Ball This huge rock is balanced on a small slope in the ancient city of Mamallapuram, India. They say that it has been in the same place and position for a thousand years, without anyone being able to move it. Delivery room in the Amazon Deep in the Amazon rainforest of Ecuador, a strange-looking stone was discovered. The Upano culture developed here, an ancient civilization dating back at least two thousand years. Due to its shape, it has been theorized that it is the place where the women of the community gave birth. Prehistoric skis It is estimated that some of these skis are around 5 thousand years old. They are one of the oldest objects related to snow transportation, evidencing the use of skis in prehistory. They were found in eternal ice, which allowed them to be preserved without deteriorating. Golden hats They are prehistoric creations made with gold sheets, decorated with geometric and astronomical patterns. Some suggest that they were central European symbols of power, possibly used by priests. Others believe that they were used as astronomical calendars, due to the symbols that appear to symbolize solar and lunar cycles. Few pieces have been discovered, which indicates that they were exclusive objects and possibly for an elite. Lewis chess pieces is a medieval chess set discovered on the Isle of Lewis, Scotland. It is considered one of the most unique finds of the Middle Ages. There are Christian bishops and Viking warriors with wide eyes and biting at their shields. The kings are seated on thrones, some have beards and mustaches, and all have a short broad sword that they hold on their knees. The queens wear a tunic and rest their heads on their right hands. Tower of the Winds Located in Athens, it is considered the oldest meteorological station in the world. It displays advanced technical sophistication for its time, with a complex hydraulic system that accurately measured time. Despite its age, it has remained in good condition, which is unusual for structures of that era. Maximilian's Armor It was developed in the 16th century during the reign of Emperor Maximilian the First, of the Roman-Germanic Empire . It marked an advance in armor technology. It provided protection against the weapons and projectiles of the time, which made it very useful in combat. It was used by nobility and royalty in ceremonies, parades and tournaments. Zoroaster's Cube An enigmatic building built two thousand five hundred years ago in Iran. It has been proposed that it was a temple, tomb, treasure or monument. Its ancient inscriptions describe the achievements of the Persian kings, but do not clarify their purpose. Its isolated location, distant from other buildings in the area, adds even more mystery. Horned helmets have been used by various cultures around the world, possibly to terrify enemies. In ancient Greece, especially in Corinth, a horned helmet arose that covered the neck, nose and cheeks. The Japanese also included them in their samurai armor. These features appeared again in medieval helmets, like this one found in Azerbaijan. A very particular one is the one that belonged to a suit of armor belonging to Henry the Eighth, the King of England, a gift from Emperor Maximilian the First. Hammurabi's Code It is the oldest compilation of laws in human history. It was written in cuneiform, and is attributed to King Hammurabi, who unified Mesopotamia three thousand seven hundred years ago. Legend says that the god Shamash gave the laws to Hammurabi. It was supposed to be displayed in every Mesopotamian city, in the middle of the square, so that everyone could see it. Saqqara Bird This small wooden Egyptian bird, two thousand years old, looks like a miniature airplane. Due to its shape, some think it is a model airplane, but Egyptologists claim it is a toy or figure of the God Horus. Muisca raft In this figure from the Colombian gold museum, an indigenous leader is surrounded by priests and warriors. It is associated with the legend of the lost city of El Dorado, which attracted explorers to South America in search of cities and kingdoms full of gold. It is not known if the figure represented a real event or if its function was symbolic. Unfinished Obelisk of Aswan Through this obelisk the ancient Egyptians' techniques for transporting enormous structures are exposed. If completed, it would have been the largest piece of stone ever handled by the ancient Egyptians. However, the work was abandoned when cracks were found in the granite during carving. Oviedo Shroud This mysterious linen handkerchief is the shroud that supposedly covered Jesus' face when he was taken down from the cross. Its first historical mention dates back to 1075, when the Holy Ark was opened in Oviedo, Spain. Statues of Monte Prama They are gigantic stone figures from the Nuragic culture, from the island of Sardinia. They personify warriors, archers, gods and mythological heroes. It is believed that they were guardians of tombs or representations of revered ancestors. Giant spheres have been discovered in several forested areas of Bosnia. It has been suggested that they are the work of ancient civilizations, although no firm evidence is available. Most geologists agree that they are natural formations. Lyuba is the mummy of a baby mammoth that died about forty-four thousand years ago. The frozen ground where it was found, on the cold Russian Yamal Peninsula, has allowed it to be well preserved. Galileo's Finger These are the middle and ring fingers of the right hand of the Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei. They are displayed in the Galileo Museum in Florence, a rare case of a non-religious relic. Mask of Agamemnon In 1876, Schliemann, excavating at Mycenae, found this funerary mask, which he thought was that of King Agamemnon. However, modern studies placed the object about 300 years before the possible historical existence of this king. The mask was part of a mortuary treasure, made from a single sheet of gold. Codex Gigas It is the largest and best preserved medieval manuscript in history. Legend says that the monk who wrote it made a pact with the devil to write it in one night. Contains the Bible, medicinal cures and historical texts. Practically since it was written, it was already considered one of the great wonders of the world, due to its colossal size and beauty. Cheops' funerary boat It was discovered in 1954, buried in a ditch at the foot of the Cheops pyramid. The Egyptians believed that it would transport the pharaoh to the afterlife. 95 percent of its boards are original, with nearly five thousand years of history. Sacsayhuaman Stones It is an Inca ceremonial fortress located on the outskirts of Cusco, in Peru. These stone blocks are huge, some weighing up to 200 tons. The quarry from which they were extracted is located 20 kilometers or 15 miles away. How the Incas managed to cut, transport and assemble the stones without modern technology remains without a definitive answer. Lady of Elche A sculpture of a woman with delicate features. It probably symbolizes a goddess from the Iberian culture of Spain or someone from the nobility. She wears a diadem on her forehead, two buns on the sides of her face, and necklaces. Bicha de Balazote It is one of the most surprising statues found in the Iberian Peninsula. It represents a bull with the head of a man, in a style similar to ancient Greek art. Its right side is not sculpted, which has led to the belief that it was a decorative figure. Tutankhamun's Mask It is the most famous object of Egyptian art. It was part of the tomb of Pharaoh Tutankhamun. It contained statues, jewelry, furniture, weapons and chariots. The canopic vessels contain the internal organs of the pharaoh. Nebra Disc An incredible artifact from the German Bronze Age. It is the oldest celestial map in the world, about three thousand six hundred years old. It proves that prehistoric humans had astronomical knowledge. A sun or full moon is observed, accompanied by a crescent moon and a group of stars. Canopic chests The ancient Egyptians mummified their pharaohs and nobles, using these jars to store their internal organs. In turn, the jars were placed in the canopic chests. Usually the sides of the chest had hieroglyphs with religious scenes and information about the dead person. Some were made like real jewels, made of alabaster or kept in altars. Rosetta Stone Napoleon's French soldiers discovered this slab in 1799. The text, inscribed in Egyptian, Demotic and Ancient Greek hieroglyphics, allowed these writings to be compared. This revolutionized Egyptology, making it possible to read and understand thousands of inscriptions on monuments, temples and tombs. Mammoth thruster It marked a milestone in prehistoric hunting, implying a technological advance. It consists of an animal bone propeller, used to propel spears and darts over long distances. Pieces from the Upper Paleolithic have been found up to twenty thousand years old. Holy Chalice of Valencia For believers, this chalice is the true Holy Grail, the cup from which Christ drank at his last supper. It was carved from a stone, to which a frame trimmed in gold was added centuries later. It was guarded in Jerusalem and Rome, and finally arrived in Valencia, Spain, where it has been kept since 1424. Crown of thorns The Gospels relate that Roman soldiers made it and put it on Jesus to ridicule him. In 1238 King Louis the ninth took it to Paris and built the Holy Chapel to preserve it. It was here until the French Revolution, and then moved to the Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris, where it is kept in a reliquary. Blood of Christ This relic is kept in the Basilica of the Holy Blood in Bruges, Belgium. According to tradition, this vial contains a cloth with the blood of Christ. It is displayed on the High Altar of the upper chapel, with murals representing its delivery. Ponce Monolith One of the most enigmatic monuments of the Tiahuanaco culture, which developed between Bolivia, Peru and Chile. It is considered that he could have been the incarnation of a leader or a deity. It is sculpted with geometric patterns, some difficult to understand, although they have been associated with astronomy or religious rituals. Heron's steam engine Considered the first heat engine in history, it was invented in the 1st century by Heron of Alexandria. It worked through steam pressure, demonstrating basic principles of physics and engineering. Heron's technology was only exploited on a large scale after the Industrial Revolution, almost two thousand years later, which highlights the advanced vision of its creator. Pillars of Ashoka He was an emperor who reigned in India about two thousand years ago, leaving a series of pillars scattered throughout the north of the country. They were built in Buddhist monasteries or pilgrimage sites. They have inscriptions explaining the principles of dharma, or doctrine of piety. Fragments of the Epic of Gilgamesh In 1850, thousands of fragments of clay tablets were found from humanity's first literary work: the Poem of Gilgamesh. The fragments are exhibited in museums such as the Louvre, the British Museum or the Iraq Museum. It tells the adventures of King Gilgamesh of Uruk, addressing topics such as friendship, human nature or life and death. Tablet 11 tells the story of the flood, on which the biblical account is based. Marathon Helmet This is a historical relic, supposedly recovered in the ruins of Marathon. Apparently, inside the bronze helmet they discovered a skull belonging to some Greek soldier. Carnyx de Tintignac It is a type of Celtic trumpet that produced a terrifying sound, according to Roman chronicles. It is believed that Celtic warriors used it in battle to stun and confuse enemies. This instrument is still played in European Celtic festivals. Armor of Ferdinand I It was made in 1549 for the Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand I. It was plate armor, made up of pieces held together with leather straps and rivets. Throughout the armor there are engravings of religious figures, with emblems and ideological symbols. Saint Lachtin's Arm It is a raised arm with a half-closed fist, dating from the beginning of the 10th century. It is believed that in the fist it held a bone of an Irish saint. Goujian Sword This mythical sword has not shown signs of rust for more than two thousand years. It belonged to King Goujian, who ruled the Chinese kingdom of Yue two thousand five hundred years ago. It displays an inscription that translates as "The king of Yue made this sword for his personal use." Hama Ferris Wheels They made this Syrian town known as "the city of the Ferris wheels." They are considered the oldest hydraulic monuments in the world, built around the 7th century . The size of the wheels varies, some are rather small, and others huge. Lady of Brassempouy It is one of the oldest works of the human face, nearly twenty-four thousand years old. She is also called the Lady in the Hood because of her hair net. Of the original figure, only the bust survives, kept in Paris. Roman Dodecahedron Around one hundred dodecahedra have been found in Europe, especially in France, Germany, Belgium, Austria and the United Kingdom. They are geometric objects with 12 pentagonal faces and holes, of variable sizes. Without inscriptions, there is still speculation about its usefulness and origin. Gold sandals They are a type of decorative objects for feet that are about two thousand five hundred years old. They were discovered in the tomb of Hochdorf, in Germany, called the Tutankhamun of the Celts. Olmec heads 17 colossal heads have been found in Mexico, with an estimated age of three thousand five hundred years. They are carved from large blocks of basalt, a material absent in the vicinity of where they were discovered. This indicates that the Olmecs moved them over vast distances, a process that is not yet fully understood. It is believed that they are portraits of real people, evidence of the mastery achieved by the sculptors. Nimrud Lens It is not clear what this ancient lens discovered in Iraq was used for. It is thought that it was a magnifying glass or that it was part of a telescope for observing the stars. Another possibility is that it was simply a decorative ornament. Tatanua masks They are used by the Malagan culture of Papua New Guinea at community funerals. They have prominent mouths and pierced ears, presenting various designs and models. Each mask is unique, expressing the status of the individual being honored. No masks They are part of the Japanese dramatic theater called No. They are used by actors to represent various characters, such as women, old people or ghosts. Subtle changes in the tilt of the actor's head alter the emotion the mask conveys. Priam's Treasure Known as the Trojan gold, it is a collection of silver and gold objects. During his excavations in 1873, Heinrich Schliemann believed that they belonged to the city of Troy described by Homer. They were later determined to date from at least a thousand years before the era in which King Priam is believed to have lived. Mapungubwe Golden Rhino It is unknown what this small wooden rhino-shaped object was used for. They found it in 1932, on a hill where the medieval kingdom of Mapungubwe was based, in what is now South Africa. Epitaph of Sicylum It is the oldest piece of music in the world, dated between the 1st and 2nd centuries. Its origin in ancient Greece places it in a rich historical context, although poorly documented in terms of musical practices. It contains musical notation and ancient Greek text, believed to be a funerary poem. Govan stones They constitute an example of primitive medieval sculpture. They were rediscovered in the 19th century during the renovation of a Scottish church. They are decorated with Celtic symbols, human figures, animals and biblical scenes. Green man These faces appear very frequently on the facades of medieval buildings. Specialists believe that it is a symbol related to spring, when a new cycle of growth begins. They are generally located in European churches in Sweden, Wales, Romania or Germany. Artificial arm It was manufactured and used in England in the mid-19th and early 20th centuries. It had joints in the elbow, wrist and all fingers, allowing objects to be taken with the hand. Stone chariot It is one of the most impressive and emblematic architectural elements of the Indian city of Hampi. It is designed to resemble a temple, mounted on a platform that imitates the shape of a ceremonial chariot. The wheels are designed to be mobile, but in practice they do not move. Spartan Shield This bronze shield from the ancient Greek city of Sparta is the only one that has survived in a complete state. It was a war trophy obtained by the Athenians after their victory in the Battle of Pylos. Gold bracelets These items of clothing from ancient Rome clearly reflect the Egyptian influence in Europe. They existed especially in the Ptolemaic period, during the dynasty to which Cleopatra belonged. For the Romans the snake represented immortality. It is also a recognition of bravery, usually given as an award to the military. Cave Canem dog mosaic literally means "Beware of the dog." It was written on the entrances of Roman houses to indicate the presence of dangerous dogs. Magic Protection Plate It is a protection plate against the Mesopotamian demon Lamashtu. In ancient Mesopotamia, belief in evil spirits was common, and these objects were considered essential to protect oneself. The use of bronze, a durable and valuable material, indicates the importance of this plaque in ritual practices. Jade funeral suit During the Han Dynasty in China, they were used to protect both the body and spirit of the deceased in the afterlife. They are composed of pieces of jade, a material highly valued in Chinese culture for its beauty and mystical properties. Only the nobility had access to such suits, given their high cost and the intensive time required to make them. Book Protector These leather boxes, used in Europe during the 15th century, were used to store manuscripts. They varied in size and shape, meeting different needs. They stood out for their refined work, with elaborate reliefs and metallic details. Bed house This is a European piece of furniture manufactured from the Middle Ages to the 19th century. It was placed in a corner of the room, and if it remained closed, the bed was hidden. It was used in several European countries, such as Austria, the Netherlands, France, Scotland and Norway. Stone Turtle Defined one of the boundaries of the Mongolian city of Karakorum, which in the 12th century was a stop on the Silk Road. It is one of the few remaining archaeological remains of this ancient city. In the middle of its shell there is a hole where there was supposedly a column with inscriptions. Sami Warehouse The Sami culture was the creator of this type of warehouse. They rest on stilts, with bases that sometimes resemble chicken legs. They are kept in the oldest open-air museum in the world, Skansen, in Stockholm. Tipu Tiger This 18th century automaton depicts a tiger attacking an Indian soldier. You can see the large fangs stuck in the neck. Outmatched, the soldier raises an arm in a vain effort to defend himself. Senet It is the oldest board game in the world, created in ancient Egypt. It was usually placed in tombs of nobles and common people. Tezcatlipoca Mask Incarnates one of the most powerful gods of the Aztecs. He was a deity associated with the night, magicians, war and destiny. Disk of Festo A fired clay object with inscriptions on both sides, about 3 thousand years old. The symbols are grouped within lines, appearing to form words, but it is not known what it says or what it was for. Without more information about its context, it remains one of the unsolved enigmas of archaeology. Great Sphinx of Giza It is a creature with the body of a lion and the head of a human, which is believed to represent Pharaoh Khufu. It was sculpted from a single block of stone, at least 4,500 years old, although it could be much older. It is believed to have been built as the spiritual guardian of the Giza pyramid complex. But its exact orientation, aligned with the spring equinox, suggests that it also had an astronomical function not yet understood. Trundholm Solar Chariot This is a small bronze and gold statue, an example of the ancient Norse worship of the sun. It consists of a disc, possibly a calendar, and a horse, both equipped with wheels. On the one hand, it presents golden elements and on the other it does not, suggesting an allusion to day and night. Narmer Palette It embodies the unification of Upper and Lower Egypt under the rule of Narmer, the first pharaoh of unified Egypt. One side shows Narmer wearing the white crown of Upper Egypt, striking a captured enemy. In another, the pharaoh appears with the red crown of Lower Egypt, inspecting the corpses of his enemies. It is considered one of the first historical images of a king. Bust of Nefertiti Thanks to this bust Nefertiti became the most famous woman in ancient Egypt. She was the wife of Pharaoh Akhenaten, known for his revolutionary worship of the god Aten. Following its discovery, the bust has sparked legal and ethical disputes between Egypt and Germany. Rongo-Rongo Tablets The writing on these tablets, discovered on the island of Rapa Nui, has not yet been deciphered. The symbols look like animals, plants, human or geometric figures. The main challenge in deciphering them is the lack of a bilingual text comparable to the Rosetta Stone. Shigir Idol About 11 thousand years old, it is the oldest wooden sculpture in the world. It was created during the Mesolithic, a period in which hunter-gatherers were beginning to form permanent settlements. Papyrus of Ani It stands out as the best preserved copy of the book of the dead. Illustrations appear explaining each step of Osiris's trial. It was made expressly for Ani, an important Egyptian administrator. The images appear to have been made before the text, showing the journey to the afterlife. Pachacamac Idol Of great height, this wooden statue personifies the Inca god of the Earth. The Incas believed that Pachacamac caused cataclysms, which is why his head had to remain motionless. Statues of San Agustin They belong to an ancient culture that developed in the mountains of southern Colombia. They have been chiseled in volcanic stone, capturing human figures, animals and hybrid anthropomorphic forms. It is considered that they fulfilled religious functions, related to the cult of ancestors or funerary practices. Zeno's Map It is a controversial 14th century map attributed to the brothers Nicolo and Antonio Zeno, two Venetian navigators. According to the descendants of the Zeno, it was created from the trips that both brothers made in the North Atlantic. However, islands that do not exist are shown, such as Estotiland, Frisland or Icaria. Some historians consider it a forgery or at least a work that mixes real observations with fiction. Coyolxauhqui Monolith Dedicated to the Aztec goddess of the Moon, this stone has been carefully sculpted. The deity is seen decapitated and dismembered, with the organs around him. Manio Giant It is one of the largest prehistoric structures in Europe, located in Brittany, France. It is believed that it was used to worship ancestors or as a place for astronomical observation. Sabu Disc It was found in the tomb of Sabu, an Egyptian official who lived almost five thousand years ago. The shape of the piece indicates that it may have belonged to an ancient mechanism, but a convincing explanation is still missing. Gebel el-Arak Knife It is an Egyptian knife that is 5 thousand years old. The handle has engravings, with religious and war scenes. On one of its faces appears the god El, of Mesopotamian tradition, surrounded by two lions. Bi discs have been found in ancient Chinese tombs. They have a circular shape, with a square or round hole in the center. In ancient China the circle of the disk symbolized the sky, and the central hole, the earth. Klerksdorp Spheres These peculiar objects interest both the scientific community and paranormal fans. Some proponents of alternative theories suggest that they come from ancient civilizations, although geologists claim that they are natural formations. Sumerian Royal List Lists the kings of Sumeria, their cities of origin, and the length of their reigns. They are written in Sumerian, using cuneiform writing. It has been compared to biblical genealogies, and the long reigns are believed to represent symbolism or mythology. Veiled Christ It is a sculpture, the work of the Italian artist Giuseppe Sanmartino, who made it in 1753. It was stated that the veil was real and that it was transformed into marble. Costa Rica Spheres The notable thing about these spheres is their almost perfect round shape. Its manufacture would have required sophisticated knowledge of stone working methods and geometry. It is believed that the indigenous people placed them in many places for astronomical and artistic purposes, although their function is not certain. Coso Artifact It was found in the 60s inside a piece of clay, on Coso Mountain, California. It is speculated that it is 500 thousand years old, and that it was made by an advanced and extinct civilization, although there is no proof of this. Papyrus of the mines It is the oldest geological map in the world, of which only fragments remain. The Egyptian scribe Amennjat did it around three thousand years ago. It showed the location of quarries and mines of different types of rocks. Copper Scroll An artifact that may interest treasure hunters. Unlike other Dead Sea scrolls, made from papyrus or clay, this one is made up of 99% copper and 1% tin. It contains a list of places where gold and silver objects are buried, whose value would amount to several hundred million dollars. Stone of the Pregnant Woman Located in Baalbek, Lebanon, it is one of the largest monoliths of antiquity. It was probably intended for the temple of Jupiter, but was not transported, perhaps due to the decline of the Roman Empire. Legend has it that it received its name because people believed that touching it guaranteed a safe pregnancy. Pazyryk Carpet Buried in the tomb of a Scythian nobleman, it is one of the oldest carpets in the world. Its location in Siberia allowed it to be kept frozen and in good condition. Stone from Lake Winnipesaukee It has intrigued historians and archaeologists alike because of its unknown origin. There are those who think that it comes from ancient North American cultures, and others that it is a forgery from the 19th century . Codex Rohonczi Discovered in Hungary in the 19th century, it is written in a language not deciphered until today. It contains hundreds of pages adorned with illustrations that seem to tell biblical stories. Some believe it is a text from a forgotten religion, and others believe it is a forgery. Statue of Pharaoh Khafre Large in size, this sculpture portrays Khafre, pharaoh of ancient Egypt. It shows the pharaoh in a traditional pose, sitting on the throne. Behind his head is Horus, the falcon god, symbolizing divine protection. Lenape Stone This plaque found in Pennsylvania, United States, contains engravings of what appear to be Native Americans hunting a mammoth. However, the lack of evidence has made it impossible to verify its authenticity. Pirgi Sheets They are fundamental to understanding the relationships between the Etruscans and other peoples of the Mediterranean during ancient times. They are one of the few bilingual inscriptions of the ancient world, essential to understanding the Etruscan language and its relationship with the Phoenician. Shugborough Inscription This is a sequence of letters located under the Shepherd's Monument, on an English estate. It could be an encrypted message or an acronym, although the actual meaning remains unconfirmed. Mughal dagger It is a piece of Islamic art, a dagger with a horse's head. It comes from India, manufactured during the Mughal dynasty. It was both a weapon and a symbol of status and power. Papyri of Herculaneum They are a collection of ancient scrolls written in Greek, discovered in a villa buried by the eruption of Vesuvius in the year 79. Most of the papyri contain philosophical works, but it is believed that there are more texts to be discovered. The scrolls are charred; unrolling them could destroy them forever. Fuente Magna This artifact was supposedly found in the vicinity of Lake Titicaca in the 1950s. The inscriptions are in two different writing systems: one similar to the Sumerian script and another that resembles the Semitic script. Some believe that the cuneiform traces are authentic and indicate transoceanic contact between the cultures of Mesopotamia and South America. Others think it is a modern fake. London hammer It is an iron and wood tool whose handle is sunk in limestone. Because it was embedded, it was believed to be millions of years old, although it is actually the same as those from the 19th century mines . Copper lintel from Tell al-'Ubaid This lion-headed eagle symbolizes the Sumerian god Ningirsu. It was found at the base of the Temple of the Goddess Ninhursag in Iraq. Elk antler shield It is an ornamental shield made from the antlers of an elk, also called the shield of Charlemagne. We have reached the end of this incredible exploration. Our world is full of mysterious artifacts with stories to tell and puzzles to solve. We say goodbye for now, see you in the next search!!