[Tracey Marks] Depression with sadness and withdrawal, but sometimes it shows up Recent studies show that extreme anger, particularly in adults, can be a telltale sign of I'm Dr. Tracey Marks, a psychiatrist and I make mental health education videos. Anger is a normal human emotion experienced by everyone at some point. - No, God, please, no! No! - However, extreme anger is different. (metal breaking) It's more intense, frequent, and often disproportionate For example, a minor inconvenience like a canceled appointment might trigger an explosive outburst in someone struggling with extreme anger. This kind of response can for both you and those around you. It can look like the person blowing up is doing it on purpose, but in most cases they are not able to control it and may even feel a lot of This is the difference between to punish and control, and the person whose anger stems It can be very scary to not have much control especially when you explode on people and you see the fear in their eyes. An interesting finding from the research presented at the European suggests that childhood neglect may have a greater impact on than the trauma of physical abuse. What is childhood neglect? Childhood neglect refers to a situation where a child's basic needs and there's several types of neglect. There's physical neglect that happens when a child's needs for and hygiene aren't and this kind of neglect poor physical health and Emotional neglect involves love and attention, and this can happen when parents or caregivers don't provide affection, or fail to offer support And this can lead to difficulties forming healthy relationships and emotional development problems. Educational neglect occurs when a child's educational Parents or caregivers may fail to enroll the child in school, or not attend to special education needs. And this can result in poor academic performance, and limited job And then there's medical neglect, which involves not providing for appropriate healthcare for the child. And this can include ignoring failing to provide necessary treatments for injuries or illnesses, or not taking the child for And this can lead to or worsen existing conditions. So why would neglect be more One theory is that neglect, can leave deeper scars because of essential positive experiences. A child who is abused physically might still receive love providing some balance, but a neglected child may never experience this essential nurturing, leading to a profound that can manifest as depression and extreme anger in adulthood. Your anger can show itself but not as intensely as it Medication may help some but the anger may still be a problem. The way to break through this anger issue is to work through healing A self-help approach to is to use techniques from This isn't the only way, but one approach and this approach encourages you to accept your feelings and Here are nine things that you can do to process your anger The first step is to recognize Understand that it's okay to feel angry. We're not talking about but simply feeling it. Anger is a normal emotion Then you want to pay attention Is it specific situations, Recognizing these triggers and prepare for future anger episodes. Then you're going to be mindful. Mindfulness is about being and observing your When you start feeling angry, try to step back and observe your emotions as if you are an outside spectator. This can help you detach from the intensity of the Because in the moment you you're reacting with the that is your amygdala. Your amygdala senses real and keeps a record of old threats. It doesn't do a good job what is a real threat based on old experiences. To help reduce your brain's you're going to use deep When you feel anger rising, Deep breaths can help and reduce the intensity Inhale slowly through your nose, hold for a few seconds, and exhale slowly through your mouth. The fifth thing you can do is journal. Writing down your thoughts and feelings can be a therapeutic way to process anger. It allows you to express and reflect on them when you feel calmer. This can also help you with identifying patterns in your anger. This process is called affective labeling. If you need some help with this process, check out my Essential Tools card deck, which is available in my store, and is linked to this video. It's a deck of 52 cards that includes affective labeling prompts and cards to help you more accurately It also has a card for each of the 10 common cognitive distortions that you will use for the which is to use cognitive restructuring to reframe your thoughts. This involves challenging and changing negative thought patterns For example, you may be triggered to anger by reacting to things on which to base your anger. This is called premature conclusions or jumping to conclusions, which is explained on card number 12. These cards are convenient to It even includes eight grounding exercises that you can use to calm if breathing doesn't do the trick. Number seven suggestion Practice speaking to yourself with kindness and understanding, especially after an anger episode. Acknowledge that managing and it's okay to have setbacks. Engaging in physical activity can be an effective way to manage anger. Exercise releases endorphins which can improve your Number nine is to seek support. Sharing your experiences or support groups can provide Sometimes just knowing what you're going through This process takes time. If self-help methods aren't enough, consider seeking help from a Therapy can provide you with more personalized Also, if you blow up a lot on loved ones, you may have some relationship If you are blowing up with your children, recognize that they will need They need to know that you are working to improve your reactions, but they may also need their own support or professional help so that they don't internalize your anger and become another generation of angry depressed traumatized people. The best thing that you can that remains consistent over time. It takes intention, self-reflection, but that's the small cost of having meaningful relationships. Watch these videos for more on trauma. Thanks for watching today. See you next time.