10 Astronomical Events That Eclipses, meteor showers, these are astronomical events that we can all but other events are much more challenging these are the 10 Astronomical Events Let's find out! &quot;Introduction&quot; In 2010 the Cassini-Huygens space probe a massive white storm on the surface of Saturn, This phenomenon consists of the appearance of terrestrial telescopes and is distinguished the color acquired by hurricanes on Earth, Saturn can be several thousand kilometers wide. years when Saturn's northern hemisphere Although the first computer modeling massive atmospheric phenomena were caused by two Caltech planetary scientists The theory is that when Saturn's upper it loses density as it sheds water vapor in behave as water does on Earth, forming storm These clouds remain for a short time in the reappear in 2038, so if you have a telescope, you even with amateur telescopes. Although we see planetary conjunctions every see ALL the planets in the solar system aligned. Earth, and Mars, to align would have to wait to an alignment of all the planets is something On this date, the seven planets can be excluding Earth, since it is the planet Yes, possibly by then, most of us will much to share this data with our children or 8. Destruction of Jupiter's Moons Jupiter, it is known that this planet has the most that you watch the video we made on this topic. the planet's rotation. Still, Jupiter has one in direction as Jupiter, but in an area where all the if they were to intercept, which is believed to collision in which both moons would be destroyed. it will be an excellent time for astronomers natural satellites in the solar system. to observe it from Earth with a telescope. Over the last few years, new asteroids and them was the recently discovered comet c/2022 e3 This comet passed close to Earth in February 52,000 years, as long as I do not leave the Just like this comet, astronomers have discovered the Earth, the particularity with these objects large amounts of materials such as rocks, ice, and Some astronomers suspect that, if we continue one of these will leave a trail that crosses every time our planet passes through that region stars, better known as meteor showers, occurs. many more dates in the year with meteor showers. Tempel1 is a periodic comet of the Jupiter family completes an orbit around the Sun every 5.5 years In 1967 after British astronomer Brian G. comet's orbit that considered Jupiter's approaches to Jupiter in 1941 and 1953 and the orbital period to smaller values This means that the comet passes and there will likely come a time within the the gas giant that it will end up destroying it If this happens, the destruction of comet Earth as an impressive spectacle. If the comet survives this date, we can still see 5. Longest total solar eclipse On this date, the Moon will completely obscure life since it will be the longest total duration of 6 minutes and 23 seconds. remember that most solar eclipses That extra minute will mean a whole The best part is: that you can have as one of the best places where you will be able just above the Nile from Luxor in Egypt. Will it be the end of the world on this date? NO! Calm, the asteroid Apophis has no this astronomical object will pass dangerously According to the most modest orbital calculations, under some telecommunications satellites and star moving slowly in the sky, threatening our Fortunately for humanity, Apophis will not deflect and make it return, passing But don't worry; we will not be in danger on that Apophis will not crash into Earth, so be The last three positions of this top are not only of the human race in space exploration. Jupiter's moons have always fascinated Europa, Ganymede, Io, and Callisto. as planets and have resources of extreme Today we know that at least Europa, Ganymede, only oceans of water beneath their ice sheets, but beneath the thick ice sheets that cover them. is one of humanity's greatest ambitions, and it is we will finally find an answer to those questions. future missions to explore these caps in search of water and life. In past videos, we've talked about how tough technology has made much progress in recent years. race to return to the Moon has begun. Several already set their sights on our natural satellite. we will witness a new era of astronauts from establish the first lunar base for an extended or If we can take advantage of athe resources offered supply of water, the stay of humans on the Moon Before me move on to #1, be sure to seen "Other 10 astronomical events 1. The first human on Mars dreams, something that many fiction writers have To convert the human race into a So far, the furthest humanity has Still, if the race to reach the moon goes well, see the first human being to set foot on another In addition to Earth, Mars is the most hospitable it has characteristics very similar to our that it also has water and had it in the past. to overcome its differences through peace and and progress for the common good, perhaps and only see the first human being to become an a Martian. the next few years? Let us know From meteors, to stars to planets universe and tell you 10 Astronomical 10. Halley's Comet things about the universe is the fact that quite frequently. Others though are more on the lifetime. And that's true for Halley's Comet. that's because Halley's Comet is known as confines of space, and then arrives back at you could see it twice in a lifetime. This of the most popular things in the universe, without much issue, especially in places like If you're curious about when it'll show up wait. The last time it appeared around Earth was Earth around 2061. The fascinating bit about this in historical texts from as far back as 240 BC. Babylonians, and even Medieval Europeans Which makes it not just a cool object, but one But it was only in 1705, when English Astronomer comet was truly &quot;noted&quot; by science. And The comets fame is known worldwide, and while &quot;meeting&quot; the Earth again, if you're around at 9. Asteroid Flying By Earth a place that is full of awe and wonder, many know the biggest dangers out there is the threat of if an asteroid big enough to destroy the Earth much that could stop it. What's even more cases throughout history where asteroids have right past us or get REALLY close to us. And In less than a decade, on April 13th, 2029, itself was discovered all the way back in it arrives near Earth on 2029, it'll literally when it was projected flight path wise possibility that it could hit Earth. And given However, further study rendered that theory think. The margin it's going to miss Earth is is a significant distance, but not one that is by it. There are actually satellites out in than this asteroid will be when it arrives. of this asteroid hitting the Earth. And given to be eagerly studying the rock so that they 8. Solar Eclipse a solar eclipse is not a &quot;rare&quot; phenomenon. The you live in the world. Because depending on where as every year or so. But in terms of Earth-wide the same spot, those are a little more sporadic. (mainly those close to the Prime Meridian) will be that will last for over 6 minutes. Which will make the entire century. While six minutes of light may you need to remember that this is an event where Meaning that the light that hits the Earth to happen for six minutes or longer is actually And one that will no doubt be witnessed by Now, as mentioned, there are some areas much better than others. That's because when it moon, and Earth are all paramount in witnessing parts of North and Southern Africa for example But don't feel bad if you're not along in your lifetime if you're in the right spot. be sure to like the video and subscribe to weekly videos! When it comes to the stars that light up the And when it comes to the state known as a MUCH brighter in a very short period of time. a massive amount of mass and energy that is seen when this event happens, it has the ability to be else in the regions of space. As for how often last millions if not billions of years depending century, a supernova happens. Which means... And possibly sooner than you think. After and that thing went on for MONTHS before the 30 years ago, we're right on track to see that we could see one within the next 50 years. have to use a telescope to find and see it, there supernova with your own eyes in the night sky. The nine (I'm counting Pluto, sue me!) planets to one another. And one of the reasons for are all different. No two planets orbit the of this is because of distance, and the other a different effect when the suns gravity interesting events over time. Including Venus this doesn't happen that often, the last time ...you know, if you count 2065 as &quot;not too far of 2065, and unlike the last convergence of because we know what to look for. That being mainly because it's going to converge in a telescope in order to see it. Still this 5. Leonid Meteor Shower is in danger from falling rocks in space, often ever really hit Earth. And when enough of this known as a meteor shower. But what's special one is a recurring event thanks to a meteor ever 33 years or so. So it's a lot like Halley's so close to the Earth's atmosphere that parts Earth itself, creating a very beautiful effect. meteorites raining down every hour. Though which is also quite a sight I grant you. the next Leonid Meteor Shower is &quot;scheduled&quot; one that can produced the massive amount 4. Planetary Alignment planets and their orbits? Well, another byproduct if ever, aligned perfectly. You know, as in you (it's a planet!!)? Yeah, that rarely happens, going to happen again soon. Or at least...in part. alignment of many of the major planets, including So while it won't be a full planetary alignment it's still going to be a pretty epic and rare Of course, if you can find a way to live until power to you. The moon plays a very big part of life on helps light up our skies, has a gravity what sometimes is forgotten is that there are REALLY close to the Earth. This event is known as that would be because one such astronomical event including the TV show Deadliest catch. in the night sky because of how close it was 2052, an even BIGGER Supermoon is coming. It'll which is the closest it'll have been But if you're worried about what that because aside from shaking up the oceans a little have an effect of note on anything else. And 2. Transit Of Earth From Mars December 10th 2084 may seem like a long time away that places like NASA and Space X have marked on one of the most historical astronomical events phrase &quot;Transit of Earth From Mars&quot; means that if front of the sun and slightly obscure it. This never been witnessed on Mars for obvious reasons. colonize Mars, some are even saying that the first if not the next decade. So, by the time living breathing cities or metropolises Which would thus make it a very historical a little ahead of ourselves, but a date less colonization wise than something that might've 1. The Destruction Of The Earth &quot;witness&quot; that is a bit of a misnomer, however, rock known as Asteroid 2012 TC4 will not only terms of fly by, but also that by 2079, a mere with the planet. Causing lots of destruction Right now, the odds of hitting the planet in really low odds and not in the good way. But, it won't destroy the Earth. It could cause some Thanks for watching everyone! What did you think viewed in your lifetime if you live long enough? you hope a different event is discovered to in the comments below, be sure to subscribe,