Love in the country Where skies are blue All you'll be dreaming of Are the birds and the bees Till you're up to There's a treehouse Below the mountain peak The perfect place for lovers When they play hide and seek There's a covered bridge Where the horses always stop 'Tween the treehouse And the covered bridge That's how Mom won Pop By making love Where skies are blue All you'll be dreaming of Are the birds and the bees Till you're up to There are roses And the scent The clingin' vine is jealous On the fence across the way There's a great big yellow And a breeze to sing a song 'Tween the roses A fella can't go wrong When he makes Love in the country Where skies are blue All you'll be dreamin' of Are the birds and the bees Till you're up to Lord to goodness. - Howdy, Drago. Makes seven times this month - Six. Six. Once was his birthday. Give me my buggy whip. Didn't have anything for breakfast - No! Yes, Boss? Don't say it's a fine morning, Get out of here, Bunyan. - Good morning. Carlos, what are you I hope I get it My brothers... they got All right. Let 'em have at it. Get over. Did you want to let me drive? No! Ya! Boss, you better You're gonna kill Thank you, Mr. Boss! You got cattle Ya! Giddyap. Ya! Keep 'em going. 15 cents a pound Ya! Ya! Now, Boss, there's I wish you'd pass up. - Bunny? Wish I knew where He ain't an old timer. He's just been around town Aw, you have no milk Morning, Mr. McLintock. - Morning, Bunny. Never felt better, My kidneys ain't and my liver's been leaving me bilious. Eh. - Hello, Ben. - Drago, throw that in the buggy. - That's a scrubby bunch of sooners, huh? That ought to make Douglas What are we going to do? I don't know what you're gonna do, Ben. 200 families. Quarter of beef lf they last two years, I got 20 head to one of any... other brand on the Mesa Verde. Some of us haven't got Some of us ain't old and tired You interest me, Young Ben. The first time I find one of hung on one of them settler's fences, You do what you want, McLintock. Fellas my age generally Youngsters call me All right, &quot;Mr. McLintock&quot;, not because I'm afraid of you. and I reckon a fella my age He's full grown now, G.W. I made him a full partner, Well, you want him to vote... the first time this territory Of course, I do. These settlers get burned out, that this country's too wild and we'll go on being with a lot of political according to what they learned where they think that cows and lndians are something I'm looking to you I'll do what I can. Come on over to the house once in a while. G.W., that'll be just fine. It's a nice morning, Everybody's entitled Like that again, eh? About 1,000 head. l figure They're not as fat - They all off the north range? Settlers. Every one of them not the slightest idea Drago! - Drag out that hog-legg. Get me some attention. Hee ya! People, people, people! People! Come on, all of you! Gather around. People, come on! Gather around. l'm McLintock. You people planned a homestead Yes, sir. The government The government never gave Some years back, They had a pretty good first year But the next year, and by June, even the jackrabbits had Folks, do you know who that is? That's McLintock... &quot;George Washington McLintock.&quot; I told them that, Douglas. He controls the water rights, You know that lumber you got? Cut by his loggers Douglas, I come close to killing you a Saddens me I didn't. Can you imagine Oh, and mines, too. All that, and he's begrudging a measly, 160 acres. That right, Mr. McLintock? - You begrudge us a little free land? If you make these homesteads go, but you just can't make 'em go God made that country for buffalo. but it hates the plow. And even the government that you can't farm 6,000 feet - Any trouble, Mr. McLintock? - How about you, Douglas? Just plain &quot;Douglas,&quot; eh? Why? Well, &quot;Douglas,&quot; I guess - Mr. McLintock? I'm a good hand with cattle, Mr. McLintock. Well, you look strong enough. Well, yes, sir, but we don't Can't use you. Tough life, ain't it, sonny? Well, ain't much future in being Ladies, this is the finest chantilly lace, &quot;Chantilly&quot;, Mr. Birnbaum. Oh, excuse me. Please, look around. Drago, I got 1,000 Havana cigars, Them big hats ain't going to have been dipping Uh-oh. Good morning, G.W. Good morning. Please. Help yourself. Davey! You can forget about Come in here! - Problem? Well, if I were blacks, I'd move Yeah. You might be right. You know, I was just starting to work this out Letter? - It was... - Morning, Mr. McLintock. You being here Oh, that hat and suit of clothes well, instead of I'd like to have this one, if it's, Well, it's all right Of course, that looks like a fella'd wear down Main Street Oh, l don't need All l have to do and some wiseacre will call me an &quot;Indian&quot;, Davey, the letter. It's for you. Yes, l know I'm an Indian, I've got a college education, but does anybody say, &quot;Hello, college man&quot; or &quot;Hello, telegrapher&quot;? No! Davey. It's always, Will you go out in All right. I'm also Always, &quot;Let the Indian do it.&quot; A lady brought that asked for it to be taken out Handsome lady. Called me &quot;Mr. Birnbaum&quot;, just as and as if that veil that covered her face I thought she was in New York So did l. Jake, you better throw on a couple That stuff sure gets used up Which reminds me, Huh! - Katherine's in town. Ladies. Good morning. Morning, Mr. McLintock. - Morning. - Morning. Morning, G.W. What are you doing in here? Helping out the bartender. Yeah, I see. A busy day. What? 17, and don't advertise it. Here they come, Set 'em up. - Beer. Day off? Off day. Wonder what he's - Haven't you heard? - Katie's back in town. Yes, dear. - Well, hi, sonny. He sure is a polite one. Mr. McLintock, l don't I'm sorry, boy. Katherine. George Washington McLintock. I thought you'd want this. First dig of the spur, but who am I - Don't you feel kind of silly? It's because you have Why couldn't we sit down and talk about whatever it is Or why couldn't you just come And have everybody know Everybody knows, and what's That is something You know the answer, Katie. That isn't why you sent for me. Let's get to the rat killing. That's just the kind of remark Let us open the discussion. Very well. Our daughter is coming home in a It was just a slip of the tongue that made me &quot;Our daughter?&quot; ls it so hard Rebecca! l hate that name. Anyway, she's coming home, and l hoped to persuade you part of the time in the capital, and, of course, You're whistling If she stays here, she'll become just as crude and as vulgar, And if she goes your way, Oh. No go, Kate. l hate you. Half the people Why does it have to be you - You animal. l saw your picture in the paper You were dancing At least he's a gentleman. l doubt that. You have to be a man first He misses on both counts. - Hey, sonny, you gonna ask him again? Hey, boy, you got to pocket your pride. You better listen to an expert, sonny. I'm telling you. You got to grovel. Mister, leave me alone. Everybody does it Heh heh heh! About that job, l already told you, son, - or use for 'em. My father died last month. I've got a mother and a little sister to feed. - What's your name? Well, you got a job, son. See my home ranch foreman. Step down off of Hold that hog-legg. I've been punched many a time in my life, Aw, I don't know what to say. l never begged before. I suppose I should have been &quot;Gave?&quot; I don't &quot;give&quot; jobs. You intend to give this man a full day's work, You mean you're still Well, yes, sir. I mean, For that, You won't &quot;give&quot; me anything, We both hold up our heads. The settler's encampment - That your plug? Well, hop on him, Ya... Ya! - Morning, Mr. McLintock. l am sure that all you in knowing just what portion of this new land Oh, uh... Jones and McCallister, since you've I'd like to have you come up Won't be a minute, sir. Go after that boy Tell him McLintock pays From the looks of things Oh, Ma, Good morning. Well, and to what do we I've got a touch of hangover, Whoa-ho, McLin! Say, those are Indians. Are there Indians Friendly Indians, my boy. - Whoa-ho, McLin. Ho, McLin. Long time we don't And it's going to be because it's against the law, And have I got my hands full. They came into town to meet the train. l heard they'd been pardoned. They don't know when it's arriving, so, in the meantime, I've got to Could I cut out a couple of head Otherwise, some of these settler's - That's right, McLin. Sheriff, are you going to encamp these You're asking for trouble. Mr. Douglas, I already have Please stay off my back. Running Buffalo, bring your Hello, Mr. McLin. Tiny Mouth, it's nice to see you! You wouldn't believe it now, but 20 years ago, she was 20 years ago, you Ahem. Ahem. It was just like this. I had a and my Sharp .50 caliber misfired. That was back in that trouble I remember. You want to taste something No. - Where'd you get this? You thinking the same thing I am? She's a widow woman, Boss, Hire her. I always said you had Mr. McLintock, - Your mother? - Pleased to meet you, Mr. McLintock. and he has a few choice words Yes, Mr. McLintock? Well... they're great. Well, you old Cantonese reprobate, You fire me, I'm not talking about firing you. You been rustling food We're going to put you All you'll have to do is give advice, - l kill myself. Hey, Ching, you kill yourself, I'll cut off your pigtail, - I'll be one of the family? Pretty crummy family... drink too much, get in fight, Cut off his pigtail. All right. All right. I hope everything is satisfactory? This is such a big house, it'll take me Now, please don't hesitate No bird's-nest soup? Otherwise, just fine. Food's heavenly, ma'am. Best apple pie l ever ate. Curly's right, ma'am. Shall we celebrate with a drink? Carlos, come Alice, you want to help, too? - Yes, Drago. I'll wash, and you kids can dry. Whoa. Don't seem possible one woman You keep a civil tongue - Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. By the way, what does that word, - Mrs. McLintock! Run and help the driver l couldn't trust anyone else in this house - Luggage? Give him a hand, Curly. - Mr. McLintock. Yes, but nothing has changed and I'd be willing rather than be denied and I'm proving that Mr. McLintock, since it's my first day, Go ahead. He joined the outfit today. - Pleased, ma'am. Well, how refreshing - Where did he come from? - A farmer? Kate, welcome home. What on earth are you doing - And don't you dare call me &quot;Kate&quot;. I'm butling for the boss. That &quot;Kate&quot; kind of slipped out, you as being nice peop... people. Oh! Are you going to stand there while the hired help insults your wife? He's just ignorant. He doesn't know any better And I can't help this stupid look. I started acquiring it as you Mrs. McLintock, where do Put them in the master bedroom. Yes, but move Mr. McLintock's Oh, the one back of the stairs so that he can't wake up when he comes home every night... ...just before daybreak. Oh, excuse me. - Here's your cigars, Mr. McLintock. Kate... I mean Katherine... this is the cook, this is the lady Mrs. Warren, How do you do. Very pleased to meet you, - Very pleased. You see, and I guess I jumped to the conclusion... that this was a bachelor's household. It is, and then again, I will explain so everything will be &quot;Mrs. Warren.&quot; &quot;Mrs. Warren.&quot; It has been a bachelor's and it will be again which will be as quickly to take my daughter You see, she's coming home and then we'll be off together, as you consider proper - Katie! Until then, I am mistress and I will give the orders. - You gonna let her? Ain't you No! I want one poached egg, toast... Oh, G.W., as soon as I want to talk to you Yes, Mrs. McLintock. Of course, Mrs. McLintock. The toast... lightly browned Of course, ma'am. Wait a minute now, Boss, where I just remembered But she said she want to I heard. - Good evening, Lem. Say, Mr. Mac, what does I was called that once, Lem. - It's best you don't know what it means. Hey, what am I going to tell her When in doubt, She wouldn't expect that - Where's Mr. McLintock going? You see a yellow streak running up and down On Mr. McLintock? Uh-huh. - He ain't afraid of nothing. - Drago? - Was that, uh... - I told him I wanted to talk to him. I was standing right over here and I was standing right on when he walked up to a horse, - stepped up on him, and sunk spur. Last time I saw him, he was He's liable to go Get me a carriage. - Yes, ma'am, but... Maybe you shouldn't follow him What does that mean? I don't know, - Well, just get the carriage. - What happened? - Barouche? But Mr. McLintock never Look, young fella, I'm the ramrod around this place, and or you're going to get the roof of this house Yes, sir. - Hello, Davey. - New broom, eh? - Hello, Bunny. How is everything? I'll get you next time. Two more, Elmer. Well, look who's here. What'll it be, Mac? Ladies. - Evening, G.W. - Wrong move. The chess problem. Whoa. Whoa. I suppose you can do that. Camille, Mrs. McLintock. I'm Camille... I... I'm, uh, learning Thought it would give me See, I have nothing I... uh... I just remembered something. Katherine! I didn't Mr. McLintock, I told you Not now. Uh, could I get you Oh, thank you, I came into town Drago never It was that young man whose - Katherine, your wine. Now, Mr. McLintock, we have First thing I learned about Indian fighting And what does our conversation Indian fighting is good experience Oh! It'll wait, Katherine. Evening, Sheriff, Mr. McLintock. - Oh, I finally got that team settled down. - No, it's your move. I just canceled it. You're not going to sit here when the matter of our daughter I am going to and the matter of our daughter - She stays. Katherine, your hair. Oh, it must look a mess No, no. It's just that I haven't It seems to me that the last time I saw you... that your hair was a little darker, no? - Ha, Ha, Ha, Ha. It's a funny thing the tricks Mr. Birnbaum, I think that you've - You have done something to your hair. Ha, ha, ha, ah! If I had, it would be I'm certainly not going to put myself in the that you seem to prefer. - Take it. - Fill it. Good morning. - You fellas still at it all night? but a Birnbaum has to. Oh, no, Mr. Birnbaum. Oh, you play chess? Please, take over. - Pretty good? Well, looks like I won't have to come into Remember, I'm a bad loser. - It's your move. Good morning. Good morning. Is it morning already? Hmm-mm. Cup of coffee? Oh, yes. Thanks, Jake. You're welcome, Katherine. - Got any cream? That'll do. Good old condensed milk. That reminds me... I was cleaning out my desk and I found something Here it is. It is a medal, do you remember? &quot;From the President of the &quot;to First Sergeant &quot;for bravery above It's your Papa's. Reminds me of the first time It was over 17 years ago. You walked into my store... not much bigger than And in the bundle was the most And was she hungry! You walked all the way just to trade me that medal G.W. was off somewhere, as usual, fighting Indians. Sheriff! Sheriff Lord! Well, have you Kind of early - Now, why didn't I think of that? Maybe somebody So there you are, Sheriff. I told you you were headed for trouble. Trouble? I want to know by whose authority Those savages are wards and I am the representative I told Sheriff Lord that he could Because the town's named after Well, you check the books in and you'll find I do Agard, if you knew anything you'd know that they're doing to put up with our so-called in spite of the nincompoops that Those Indians need my permission Those chiefs have been giving It's pretty hard that they have to hold up their hand The law is very clear. I told you you'd get no - We'll get the girl back. The girl the Indians I armed the settlers and set them What is this about a &quot;girl&quot;? Millie Jones... one of - The Indians kidnapped her. And you turned loose a lot of - I certainly did. - Mr. Douglas. Much as I hate to agree you haven't changed a bit. - Come into town. I got worried. - Thought maybe Katie shot you. Wait a minute. You better take Agard along, not that he'll be much help. Just a minute. - I'll drive. - Agard, what are you doing? Agard, Stay with him, Agard. Agard, will you stop showing off Mercy. Mercy. That horse is a little green. Let's go. Just where Don't use that range boss Carter! We're headed Mount up some riders. Right, Boss. I don't like it, Mr. McLintock. - What don't you like? Oh ho, Sheriff very funny. Ha ha! Hold it! Not so fast, unless you want to wear How long is G.W. going to let That cheechako How do you know she didn't - or meet some fella, or something? That I didn't raise my girl right? That she'd wander off There's a lot of things while you got a sawed-off But how do you know this Indian She's gone, ain't she? Pa! Pa! - Been looking for me, Pa? Young Ben took me for a sunrise ride, - You come down off of there! She's telling the truth, Mr. McLintock. Well, that's not important right now. The important thing is that or this'll be worse than You get on back to the wagon! - Now for this young whippersnapper! and Young Ben here is one of the So just put down that shotgun, I'll teach him to fool with my... Now... - Boss, he's just a little excited. I'm going to use good judgment. But, pilgrim, you caused Might have got somebody killed. And somebody ought But I won't. The hell I won't! Oomf! McLintock rider! Yee-ha! Ha haa! Oh, McLin! Hey, Buster... Aah! Well, sir... nice party. - Do you think you ought to? Why, you big... Yeeow! Aaah! Good morning, good party! Hey! Wait! I want a word with you. My glasses! Hey, now, stop this, Oh, for heaven's sake! - Stay out of this, Jake. Aah! Run, Old Paint! Where's the whiskey? Where's the whiskey? Good fight, good fight! - Ha, ha, ha! - Oh ho, McLin! - Ha ha! Very funny! Ohhh! Gosh, Mr. Douglas, Ha! Ha! Ha! Bon voyage, Drago! Aahhhh! Are you still down here? Hey! Horse wandered away, huh? Honest, Mr. Jones. Oh... get out of my way! - Nice left. - I went to college! You're not Ohhh! Owwww! You beast! Why, McLintock, you big... Good morning to you, Mrs. McLintock. Yeeoowie! Oh, No! G.W. McLintock, you big... Well, it's pretty People, people, people! Oh, McLin! Oh, McLin, good party! But no whiskey. - You and your friends! Oh! Where is everybody? Oh, for heaven's sakes! Whoa! Whoa! Drago, will you never Yes, ma'am, I'll sure try. - Crummy family! I lose face! - Lousy leathertips! - Kate. We could be a big help Like what, may I ask? Well, we could wash the mud We used to have quite good times There are a lot of things we used to do. - Any luck? - I mean divorce! She still want it? You know something, She fought like a wildcat on your side Come home... she slams That divorce business... is that what you get when you pay That's about it. Some women I've knowed, You know, if we had we wouldn't be standing here, - when we should be washing. Drago. Mrs. Warren, Why, thank you, Drago. - Good morning, Mrs. Warren. Breakfast for the Boss? If that's the way you want it, Mr. McLintock. One poached egg, tea, Why, Mrs. McLintock... I do? Oooh! - Oh! Ohh... and Becky's coming home today. There's a little something Hmm? There are no men listening now, Oh, sure, I let you get away but now that we're alone... When I want the opinion of You know, you could wind up What? Oh... I realize you had We always have to, just before generally for something But you and I both know, that's just to they, uh... run things. - McLintock give you that black eye? Nobody gave it to me. - Morning, Davey. - Why, Miss Becky, welcome home! Hi, Dad! - My boy! Ha ha ha! Daddy! Daddy! Oh! It's been two long years! I guess I'm going to have to - Becky. - Oh, Mama! I wasn't sure you'd be here. Oh, Becky, I've bought you three Becky! Uncle Drago! Did you bring your old uncle - Sure did! A mustache cup! Prettiest palomino pony that Broke to stand ground-tied Uncle Jake! Ohh! What are you doing Oh, Mr. Douglas has a fat... had a little accident. You know, I brought you a whole But now that I've seen I think we better exchange them for a - Thank you! but he had to go to the territorial capital But I'm going to give his speech. Oh, and don't worry about the mayor. I'm sure that he can find &quot;Ladies and gentlemen, What am I doing? We are here to welcome back... the prettiest girl or in any part of the territory. Now, this... - Hey, Davey! Got something for you! Yard manager up at the junction... told me to let them ride, I've had my scalp and I aim to keep it! Yatahe. And now she's come back to us. But the freckles are still on the prettiest face Hey, that's Puma. Then it's true. The government Good old Puma. I'll never forget Your father had a hole Of course, they weren't He came past the house at a high lope Then you do remember them &quot;Katherine.&quot; - Yatahe, my friends. Puma, honored enemy. Does Big McLintock forget, No, I'll never forget that. Old wound... I feel it when it comes on to rain. An inch higher, and I wouldn't Aw, Big McLintock, We return with news. You see, I learn good English Learned in white man's jail. But we would have you talk I understand that Governor Humphreys Yes, Puma, Mr. McLintock, uh... could I impose upon you to use your Puma is chief of the Comanches, Ah, well... Your people will have to follow - It is the law of the land... Well, now, just a minute... Well, for heaven's sakes! You wait here, honey. - Are you going to the McLintock party? Will I see you there, Beth? Of course, Davey, and you Sis! Come on. I don't want any sister of mine Davey's not a stranger. He's an Indian. Darn you, Drago! Now look what you've done. Baby, this is Devlin Warren. Dev, this is Those are my things. Yes, ma'am. Aw, I'd have known you What do you mean? Oh! I mean, you look so much like Well, Mr. Warren, Many a fight's started with words like that. Hello, Ching! - We got jelly pie for dinner? No, he's not. - Junior! - You remember Junior Douglas, Mama. - Valedictorian. 95. Oh, Mr. and Mrs. Douglas, Oh, delighted! Well, it'll be pretty hard Yes, sir! - Drago! G.W.! Oh, yes. Oh, uh, Mr. McLintock, uh, I hope in asking for the honor - Well, there she is. Ask her yourself. Ching, now I'm gonna get fired. Thank you, sir. - Have you no manners? - Yeah. Yeap. Like father, What did he mean, Matthew? Come on, Ching, Well, you're doing Thank you, Mrs. Warren. Dev, when you're finished there, Yes, Mom. Uh, Dev... could you come I certainly was surprised - Why? Junior says Purdue's a good college Well, he did, indeed. Oh, could you do this? - Why didn't you finish college? My father got sick, So he took out a homestead. You know, your mom's sure cute. Well, you'd been lucky, if you'd inherited Oh, really? - His common sense, for instance. Yeah. You don't see him being fooled Junior's not a dude! He's nifty. This needs a woman's touch. - And besides, he got a letter at college. - Glee club. Hmmph! Oooh! Oh! Don't you dare hug me! I have no intention Oooh! Ladies all look You know, this is a real fine party. Oh, thank you, Ben. Of course, we had Just everybody. Sorry, G.W., Well, thank you, Mrs. Warren. I guess I'll have - Well, the next one's yours, Mr. McLintock. - Drago, go and do what I told you to do. &quot;Katherine!&quot; &quot;Ohh, Drago do this, Yee-ha! - This Douglas feller... Yes, ma'am. Matt Douglas, junior... is going to bring you folks some of the brand-new, brought by him All right, Mr. Fiddler. Give me a whiskey! - What? - We are run out of whiskey. Indian! And you still got any ideas get up, and we can do this Yes! - That's enough! You fought it! It's all over! - He's a hired man, not your son! I don't think Well, you want to take up If I did, you wouldn't Now, we've had When are you going Just as soon as we're &quot;Don't fight in front of women.&quot; - Well, we're out of sight now. Such vulgarity. You're right. Absolutely right. You all right, Young Ben? I'm all right, Pretty fancy fighting Two years at Purdue, Mr. McLintock, I never thought but you sure did. Better get him cleaned up. Yeap. Well, get yourself cleaned up. Who? Oh! Did I miss one? Where is he? I'll find him, Trouble. Where is Where is he, G.W.? Oh, so you're the young farmer boy, Well, I'm Fauntleroy Sage, Well, I'm no farmer, yes, I whipped him, - What's &quot;intruding&quot; mean? Oh, so he's insulting me! Well, then I got another besides on account of him Fauntleroy, you can't get mixed Family honor. I can't have it said You're twice his size. Don't let that If Mr. Fauntleroy insists, I'll just have to Say! Sorry, young feller. Hate to have to do that, Not yet. - Not yet, what? Now, wait a minute. Fauntleroy, we're gonna Course we are. Course we are, G.W. I wouldn't do that, G.W. - You wouldn't do... And, Dev, I don't want you kicking He didn't do no such thing! And none of this nose-twisting. He's all yours. Where are my glasses? You all right, young feller? Ouch! I'm all right, if this Indian agent G.W, you was just funning me, but I want you to know that boy Well, I'm glad to hear that, Fauntleroy. Where's my uncle? Fauntleroy, what have you been doing? - I hope my uncle didn't bother anybody. I think we'd better join the ladies, Fauntleroy, let's Jake. you think tincture of arnica would help? Could be. Gentlemen, - Good morning, Drago. You seen Daddy? Took off early this morning with Went hunting. Oh. - Morning, Daddy. What gets you out so early? It's something I have Yeah? What? Mama. Why did you and Mama Why did you separate? - Aren't you going to answer me? - It's sort of my business, I think.. Is it another woman? At your age, It's Mrs. Warren! Becky, I don't want to start laying the but I'll have no more such talk. The first time I ever saw She has a job here and I hope you'll have to not pry into Your mother's and mine. Pretty good shot, Daddy. Oh, I can understand your trouble. Mama's often so, well, Petulant? You learned a lot of words I wished to God they would have You were only when your mother stayed alone with you in a while I moved the herd 300 miles Saved about half of it. You were a little more than a year old We stood off 500 Petulant, Becky? I think you better go on home. See that Ching gets those birds. Becky! Come here. There's something I ought to tell you. Guess now is as good a time as any. You're going to have every young buck around here trying to marry you. Mostly because but partly because I own everything in They'll think you're going to inherit it. I'm going to leave most of it to... well, to the nation, really, for a park... where no lumbermill will cut down all the Nobody will kill all the beaver nor murder the buffalo for robes. What I'm going to give you... is a 500-cow spread on the upper Green River. Now, that may not seem but it's more than we had, Some folks are going so I can sit up in the hereafter and or that I was disappointed in you, But the real reason, Becky, and I want you and some because all the gold and all the harp music in heaven... can't equal what happens with all that growing together. I can't explain it any better than that. All right, Daddy. Becky! When you're as old as I am, Daddy, I'm full-grown. I wasn't worrying about me. I was thinking Oh! Well, all three of them fell Well, it's getting rather late, Becky. Oh, Mother, he brought this. - Oh, well.... Well, if you really want me to. - You know &quot;Just Right for Me?&quot; It's the rage now. Oh! Dev, what are you doing? Oh, I, uh... I just thought Well, you've got one in your mouth And that move. The fellas want me You're cuter than And softer than I want the whole wide world to hear You're just right for me You're sweeter than... Oh, no, not that rhythm, Junior. - I know the words. - Of course. I love a man who's witty and smart, It's your move. Oh. My heart forever Oh, Dev, you're playing Let's call it an evening. You're sweeter than the early stars... Or bluebells when they start to... Pretty good, You're just right for me Sweeter than honey, I'm sure they found you, I would melt You'd disappear To die like this This is the time, Just right for me! Well, it's so good, I kind of but we're going to have Sir, about our conversation - I believe I'd better apologize. Yes, sir, I've been thinking it over, well, that's merely my generation's - Nothing personal, you understand. Well, good night, sir. - Good night, Mrs. McLintock. - Good night, Drago. Boss... what does &quot;reactionary&quot; mean? Me, I guess. He says that anyone that wanted to sell Was we &quot;reactionaries&quot; back in them days for six cents a pound on the hoof? Well, no use arguing with him. Devlin Warren, you wouldn't let some dude walk off with - without putting up some kind of fight. What can I do? I'm just one of I'm just a hired hand Every so often, Dev... you spill the strangest ideas. Everybody works for somebody. Me, I work for everybody that steps into a butcher's and you work for me. Daddy, the most terrible Junior's horse ran away, You tied up a rented horse by the reins? I think we can get Junior What I'd rather do, Daddy, It's a lovely evening, and I'm sure I would, and I got the kind of manners just to be polite. I'll drive him home, and you don't have to come, Miss Becky. - I can take care of myself. - Dev, get the carriage. Drago. Now you got me You make a man You're just right for me Miss Becky, somebody better You know, I'm new around here. Devlin Warren, you know there isn't You disappear To die like this - This is the time Yah! Yah! Devlin Warren, what are Would you rather Yah! Oh! Oh! Daddy! Daddy! I have never been I said what I said, and I'll Shoot him, Daddy. - Well, why? - Well, now, your honor - &quot;Impugned?&quot; - Slander! He slandered my honor! I said what I said, and I'll He admits it! See? - Well, what is he admitting to? I won't even repeat the word. I didn't necessarily but I said what I said, and I'll Well, just for the tally books, I said that &quot;any girl who would &quot;before they're formally engaged He said it again! Shoot him! - Now, hold on. If you're my father, if you Well, I'm your father, and I sure love you... so... Oh, you shot him! - Hey! If he dies, he'll be the first man ever We use this to start Hey, I'm on fire! - Oh, you poor dear! - You'd have had me shot in cold blood! Yelling I insulted you, and all! Oh, Dev! Daddy! Leave me out of this! - Oh, I think I'll give you what you deserve. Oh, wouldn't I? You'll think next time This kicking and yelling Don't! Daddy, wait Ow! Daddy, help me! Don't! Devlin Warren, I hate you! Mommy! Mommy! Oh! G.W, was that a shot? Ohh! - Becky, what happened? You spanked my daughter? Dev. You mean you stood there while G.W, what's happened to you Better part of valor, son. Isn't it enough that you've always without subjecting dear, sweet Becky Katherine, you women are always when it's something else Don't you think it's what put the burr I don't intend to stand here with an intoxicated man. And I am not intoxicated... Yet! - Hello, Governor! - Chief Puma. Big McLintock, we know You gentlemen, follow me. - Well, Jake? - Well, G.W., it's been a long time. - Your husband is a rude man. Where you want the Indians, Mr. McLintock is not - Sergeant, seat those Indians. Gentlemen, be seated. Their whole tribe here Proceed, Lieutenant. This hearing is now in session, Governor Cuthbert Humphreys Good luck, Daddy. I'm afraid Government edict number 826. &quot;As ordered that the Comanche &quot;from their present reservation &quot;it is the government's claim as &quot;that these chiefs, after being released &quot;did then rouse and incite defiance It seems, gentlemen, that although some Chief Puma is quite at home they have chosen Mr. McLintock I speak for the Comanche, Proceed, Mr. McLintock. The Comanches says... &quot;We are an old people, &quot;When the White Man &quot;we were as many as &quot;Now we are few, &quot;For if a man lose his pride &quot;You tell us now that if we will &quot;to this place called Fort Sill, &quot;you will feed us &quot;Let us tell you this: &quot;It is a Comanche law &quot;unless first he sees that &quot;in the lodges of &quot;It is the Comanche way of life. &quot;This that the White Man calls 'charity' &quot;but no warrior can accept it, &quot;and when he is no longer a man, &quot;and better off dead. &quot;You say to the Comanche: 'You are widows &quot;And we the Comanches say: &quot;It will not be a remembered &quot;because we are few now, &quot;but we will fight, Thank you, Big McLintock. Am I to gather the Comanche defy Yes, you may gather that the Comanche - or at least this commission. It is the order of this court, that these chiefs as the detachment be made avaible... to escort them This court is adjourned. McLintock, you are important chief amongst these white people. Sway them. Have them give us few guns Let us have one last remembered I almost wish Aha loni cha! - Sergent. Left, right, carry on. Gentlemen! It's sad, these changing times. It isn't the times Hi, G.W. Hello, Lem. Bunny. Oh, howdy, McLintock. Figured you'd be I've been doing some Is that boxcar still on the siding? - Well, sure, but... - I don't like it. You figure if and lead the cavalry that Great White Father's Get nosy, and when they find out, been messing things up, they'll give those Indians That's live ammunition You know what will happen, if them Indians Somebody is going to get hurt. - Is Puma's word good enough for you? McLintock, you got yourself a partner. Leave me out of this. Hey, McLintock... Ha ha ha. Good night, Governor. Governor! Where is the Katie With her light red hair? Sweet as the roses On the summer air I'll find her somewhere While the moon is high And tell her And I'll love her till I die Katie! Katherine Gilhooly McLintock! Katie! &quot;Katherine Gilhooly McLintock.&quot; Where's the woman of the house? Uh, Mr. McLintock. Oh, there you... Mrs. Warren! - I waited up for you, Mr. McLintock. - I want to talk to you about something. - 309 times straight. 309 times straight, without a miss. I suppose so. Now, Two-pound Stetson with 53 feet in the air, I'm sure it is, Dagnammit, woman, Of course, sir. Now... Down the hatch Down the hatch! Yes, sir. And now... T-t-the governor Now, don't you stick up for him, You're a fine woman, but you'll certainly go down if you stick up for Cuthbert H. Humphreys, - I don't mean to change the... Aw... yes sir. Cuthbert H. Humphreys, governor is a cull. Do you know A &quot;cull&quot; is a specimen that you have to cut him Now, if all the people in the Cuthbert is the one At whom, at whom I would throw Natural born &quot;cull&quot;. - Another touch, ma'am? - Well, I, I don't mind if I do. You can't walk on one leg. Oh, I didn't mean to be vulgar, ma'am. It's all right. Sounds silly. You know my wife? She insists on being called &quot;Katherine&quot;. Of course, Mr. McLintock, and Well, she thinks that Cuthbert H. Humphreys... is panting for her like a bull buffalo But what Cuthbert is panting for Don't make me feel Very well, Mr. McLintock, - Down the hatch! Mr. McLintock... I have something very important Very important. Guess it'll have to wait Toodles. Oh! No, it's all right. Beddy bye-bye. Whoops... Oh! Mrs. Warren, Very kind. Ooop... ooop... oop! Aaah! Whoops! What's going on here? Now, Katherine, are you going or what I tell you? Oh! Uh, Mrs. McLintock, It's the first hundred women sitting Number 101 is quite simple. Now, G.W. McLintock, He's gone to sleep. Just when I know exactly what I he goes to sleep. I waited up I wanted to tell him You see, Sheriff Lord has asked Oh, oh, congratulations! I don't want to seem prudish, but if you it seems to me that you're Oh! Come on, I'll help you upstairs, and we'll have a long talk Ladies... One moment! Watch out! Whoops! Wait a minute, ladies, then I'll get you as sure as my name is - You may be quitting, Mrs. Wallace... But not tomorrow. I want my breakfast in bed. I know. Somebody sure put a knob - It was Katie. Mrs. Warren was there... Ooh... And there you was, there, And Katie's temper being what Katie's Drago, old friend, my wife does not understand me. Why should she be Come on, Get you ready for Watch it! Oh! Drago... Hooligans! Ain't got no respect Bunny lost his temper! Bunny lost his temper! Scallywags! Little imps! Come on, Is everybody ready? Uh, number five Get him one. Let us know when you're ready. Ladies and gentlemen... It is my honor to present to you... the governor of our territory, Cuthbert H. Humphrey. Thank you, Mayor. My friends and citizens of this this is the ninth it has been my privilege to inaugurate the McLintock Now, the first event will be But before I fire the shot to I would like to say regarding my stewardship Ride it, Ben! Whoo-hoo! - All right, Professor Birnbaum. Sheriff, here's your horse. Come on, get them all lined up. Now, boys, It's twice around the inside First cowboy that hits that finish line And I caution you boys about 'cause some of them eggs All right, mount up. Katherine, my dear, you Oh, yes. It's is the only thing l really do enjoy the Fourth of July celebration. Well, Katherine, I've been here for three days. - Is anything wrong? Well, I just hope that it hasn't been ...to G.W. What are you talking about? Well, Katherine, you see, I'm being governor of the territory I just hope you haven't found it necessary About... what? About you and me. Why, you pompous windbag. Do you think that you're the only man, Who's ever tried Well, no, but I... Well, I'm a big girl, My husband knows it. I can assure you, Governor, that Now get out of my way. Folks, we got ourselves a winner. Mazel tov, Curly! Give me the egg. Disqualified! Here you go, Curly. G.W, G.W, you'll never believe What? - You smell of beer. Ladies and gentlemen, the next event between the two bronco-busting our territory You remember the year Wore your garters Shhh! We had a bet, and I won it. George Washington McLintock, Well, I guess so, but that was a rough horse, But it was worth it. Oh! Free beers! One... two... three... Pull him, Dev - Dev, Dev, are you all right? Nothing busted but my pride. Well, that ought to For what? For that sore nose you gave me Well, that ain't The closing event The finish line So, start meandering. Come on! Now, what is that? Why, you know a Douglas doesn't I want you to get on that horse, get out I'll be out in front, Dad, - all the way. Now, remember, stay out in front. Whoah, Agamemnon. 11:40, and she's on time. Whoah, boy! Dad! Whoah! Oh, McLin... Big party. - Whose idea was this stunt? Reckon that's about for one Fourth of July, eh? Old Puma finally got his way. But I reckon he's riding out Well, he won't get very far. But one thing still has me puzzled. I was wondering the same thing. - My kidney's been bothering me... G.W.! Psst! Pssst! What an idiotic joke! - Joke! Do you think that was a joke? Do you want everybody in town You look good in feathers. Oh! - Dev, I think they've gone. What are you - What can I do? Just like you've always done! Oh! How long, G.W.? - How long, what? She's been riding herd I'm a peaceable man, &quot;You raise your voice,&quot; &quot;it doesn't do any good,&quot; &quot;it's time to raise your hand.&quot; Well, I've been planning to do - I'll have another talk with her. Talk to her! Becky, have you seen your m... What's been happening You've got hay all over you. Been some mighty sneaky goings-on here Who was it said only a trollop would kiss they were formally engaged? - Oh, but we are engaged, sir. That is, with your permission. Well, you've got it. I think it's wonderful. I guess this is the only engagement, Mm-hmm, All right. Lord bless us, Doggone it, folks, let's don't let a little old Indian raid - The meat's on! You contestants get ready &quot;Shave and a Haircut, two bits&quot; - Who is it? Not now. Right now! - Are you insane? It'll have to wait. Oh, G.W.! - I've taken all I'm going to take from you. You are going to tell me why you and walked out on me. Two years ago... you remember... with lipstick all over your... Aaah! Lipstick on my collar. - I've got the shirt to prove it. Why, you big... Ah! Katherine! Ah! G.W., you are a ruffian. Cuthbert, you are right. Well, what kind of a family The best! And dangerous, fella. Well, what happened? Who cares, Agard? Yes, Rufus? I regret to inform you I've changed Rufus! Hey! Mrs. McLintock! Kath... Katherine! - Keep them out of here. Looks like G.W.'s buying out I'm afraid you're right. Crummy family! Crummy family! G.W! Oh, G.W, G.W! Oh, oh, G.W, G.W! Aah! Oh, Mrs. McLintock, you're all wet! Wrong woman, G.W. Oh, pardon me. Mrs. McLintock, Uh! Shhh! Mr. McLintock! In here! If I ever get through this humiliation, Oh, bellyache and fight all you want. You've been digging those burrs Now, you're going to get Thanks. My father would be proud of you! Then I'll make him prouder. Stop it! Keep it. Now get your divorce. Oh! Oooh! - Home! Don't spare the horse. You heard me. Don't think you're going Yah! - No more living in the capital? - No more Newport in season? No more dancing No, G.W. Happy days! 310 times, That's a record.