One of the most scariest moments pushing a little too far Zero control. Let me explain. I'm on my way to the goldfields to put the latest upgrades This is the new bar. These are 7 inch, before I had 9 inch. Well, that wasn't meant to happen I know very well. Looks like a warzone. But before that, I wanted to try Australia. Bornholm beach. I had planned to meet up but he was running a day behind, why not swing into Brunswick on the way A very popular place to test your skills Already lost control of the back end. I have very limited control on this. zero control. I appear to look calm, but on the inside that adrenaline is pumping. Despite my embarrassment I totally underestimated this hill, Once I was just sliding. there's not much you can do except for. Just keep the wheel straight. Making sure the vehicle was in the ruts It could have resulted in far worse damage And thankfully, guess that wrap Finally comes in handy. At that point, and head to Bornholm beach and catch up Down South with Harry. And in case you didn't know. This is Harry and this is Fred what's happening? Time for the challenge at Bornholm Beach. I have two previous vehicles. I can compare this to. Four cylinder Land Cruiser. You're up next latest 2.8 turbo diesel. Coming at you very soon. Honestly, that thing is like a lumberjack It all looks good from the outside. And then you find out what's underneath. Yeehaw! Sewing Machine coming at ya. AHHH Now, kind of looking back when I had the V8, Straight pipe, And coming up this hill and then just to do it now in a 2.8 kinda like, I definitely gave it Feeling very happy and Satisfied, I finally got to test the 76 series I turned my sights to the unpredictable 300 kilometer goldfields track. You're going to to freeze your ass off You know that, right? Three degrees. A good place to sleep in a wet thing. Have fun. Enjoy your heated caravan tonight. I certainly will, yeah. Speaking of the holland track. And it just so happens the very next morning, I'm on a soggy, Holland And that's where the story begins. Good morning. It is freezing cold. I just managed to get out of my swag but it was worth it because those colors So what's happening? I'm moving around to stay warm. I'm gonna get a bonfire soon, Look at that. Got the 76 back out. Got A lot happening. It's already dirty. It's already muddy. dirt, mud cold and wet. To many, However, And I guess that's why a lot of people But I actually have a bit of a trick If you're not a big fan especially when it's raining My trick is to, at night, put on some nice comfy trackies a nice oversize jumper with that, zip up the entire swag Don't have any vents open and then Otherwise you'll be shivering all night coffee is just about. Yep. Excuse me. You're on the gloves. Check this out. You can adjust the heat on this Bush innovation. Here's another tip. If your swag is wet, And even if there is any moisture prevent it from rising. How muddy And how challenging There's only one way to find out. There's a number of things I've improved since last time, So rather than have a trip I thought, Have a bit of fun while we're out here. Compare the vehicle In the past I've had here the Hilux SR5. being an auto, same gearbox, same motor, which has also been on this track But this is the 76 first some of the new additions Haha, i'm kind of just going where this is taking me really. All four wheels. Even twin lock. I'm still spinning. A place like this. The Holland track and it's wet, You do not stand the chance My tires are unique. The gaps in the tread blocks allow them But it's also a balance between control by mud pits, holes and traps That hole is huge. Trust me, you want to stay out of these ones I know a lot of people but it costs a lot of money. Last time I had a car out here, That said, Like right now. Time to grab a stick After a bit of a poke around, Most people just check the depth but there's more to it than that. That seems a bit deep, and there's Often when people get bogged, whatever they can in the holes But then sometimes or whatever could actually flick up This beautiful bull bar Another reason to be extra careful. And the beauty about that bar. You can add a winch after the fact. Nice and easy. Right now. We got a water hole to tackle. Before I knew to a burnt, sandy, apocalyptic landscape as far as the eye could see. It's all burnt out. It looks so cool. I have to stop. It's unreal. Like a kid in a candy shop. I took snaps of my favorite companion, And what was going through my head. Apocalyptic imagination. I head out there to get some photos And look how dirty This is the new bar. Off-Road Animal Predator Bar. The reason why I've gone for this is because this is the only one So far that I like, and All the others. I'm not saying they're not. They're bad or they're good or anything. I'm just saying This retains that look of the new 70. I'm sitting up pretty high, something across here. Although, yes, I am definitely vulnerable. There's no doubt about it. If a kangaroo is in mid-air Oh my God, At least I'm protected here. I can still get home. just going to put us in the car to have a Those are not just the recovery points, but I installed This bar with my mate Sean. And to help out a fellow mate, check out I wanted to help him install this bar Removing the plastic. To put in some steel It goes around the chassis. That is one strong recovery point. And there's two of them, which means Speaking of recovering, It can easily be added later. This whole piece here that just comes out. You might have noticed that before I Had the nine inch with this hoop. I had to go the seven inch. They cost me 499 bucks delivered The other one's are bloody good and It's the same wiring harness. There is a third light in here, That light came with the bar, animal bar, I think. light. Light bar. Bar bar Light bar, Bullbar. Get back on the track. We got a fair way to go. Do you like the bar? Looks like this apocalyptic landscape I'm getting flicked with mud here, too. Oh, look at this place. Actually, looks like a warzone. That's not a good sign. Not much choice in lines to pick. Well, pays being at- Oh s**t! oh. No. don't hit the tree. Jhee whizzy Man. After almost an hour I had finally reached Mount Holland. Not even halfway. A long way to go Still. All this water and mud. It's really held me up. Well, one thing I've noticed. I've been forced to try to straddle as many of these bog holes as I can, You know, I don't wanna get stuck. I don't have a winch yet. That said, I've been able You see, with a dual cab yute, There are many similar situations Back end didn't slide in With dual cab yute. there are advantages and disadvantages And climbing up this hill here is definitely way more comfortable let's not spend too much time up here. I've got a long way to go. Got a fallen tree here, but I reckon I could just crush it. Crusher. Of course I'm gonna move it. I know there'd be a few people saying don't be lazy. Job done. Actually, before we jump in these puddles. Well, the Achilles heel of the V8 70 Because it hangs so low. Even a little paddle like that. The amount of mud and bog holes I haven't had that alternator You don't have to worry about it. I've done this whole track Many other vehicles don't have that issue, and a 200 series, Once that gets mud in it, Your batteries start dropping. You've got to do a bush fix here. The other thing I don't have to worry about. This is an automatic. I don't have to worry about changing gears don't want to change gears in the middle of the water, Oh, damn, this is a bloody hole That's another really good thing. Lets get going. 2 hours and 200 puddles later... The track's actually It's taken quite a while Golden hours already. It's snuck up on me. Look at this. Winter Which means that the lights To answer a frequently asked question Why are they flashing all the time? Yeah, why are they flashing? It's to do with frame rate. Our eyes see at like roughly 24, And the reason why we're seeing them flash is because of the frame rate Not flashing. Flashing, not flashing. Flashing. That's why you're seeing the lights flash. Anyway, we get to see how good these are. I thought I was going to have like to 7 inch, because there's like a whole They actually did So we'll see how it goes here. I've definitely lost spread, though. I've not made much progress I'm a day behind where I'd normally be and it was always going to be in Tonight's camp will likely be close to midnight. next time. I'll have to explain Well, that wasn't meant to happen. Bunch of other stuff I've yet to show you. Cafe 76. I'm going to reveal something chaotic- bush- woodland.