"Hello!" Hello. I thought this was gonna be awesome. But this proto-Siri-Alexa virtual I was flipping through the March 1987 issue of butler genie-bursting from a small black box, with It's the Mastervoice "Butler in a Box," and intelligent environmental control system different people, provide home security, It's supposed to make everything around your questions than answers. How does or the internet? If this was such a breakthrough Who invented this - and why is he a professional had a world champion Frisbee-catching dog a submarine - and why does his YouTube channel You'll get a glimpse of Gus Searcy - and you'll also see if I can challenge... is it even possible to acquire Amazingly I found one on eBay that appeared critical part that's missing almost all the time decades-old thick styrofoam shell and found a the 3" x 9" x 11" Butler in a Box - which is an "appliance module," a lamp minder, a training I don't have a landline... and I At least everyone had both of those in that magically responds to your voice triggered the door-opening mechanism "Open Sesame" - that folk tale is at As the industrial world worked to the dreamers still dreamed. In 1911, Hugo his science fiction novel "Ralph 124C turn on and adjust the intensity of lighting, By the 1960s, the Jetsons had a whole family, Captain Kirk interfaced and a Heuristically programmed ALgorithmic But even into the 80s, the prospect of a magic - and when magician Gus Searcy kept pull a rabbit out of a hat but couldn't he decided to invent a device that could. Or... that's his official story, which also includes Seed," in which a fully-automated home is that forcefully impregnates its owner, as If that seems unconventional... so is Gus. His his parents signed over power of attorney to and he was earning six figures. At 19 he owned youngest owner of a 7-11 franchise in the world. a water-saving solution for RVs, wrote a services subscription company - that was where So what's real? What's not? I don't know? But the Butler in a Box does have a So I got a tape player - and then I had to search that acts as a bluetooth go-between for your It's easy to connect stuff now home automation system work a decade 14 years before WiFi, and 16 years Carrier current and the X10 protocol Basically, a microprocessor in the Butler wiring of the house, which are then read by and those are each assigned a I've got a lamp here, and this is my goal for the and off just with my voice. So I plug the lamp manually turn the lamp on and leave it on, then the unit code dial to, say, 1. Then you log the in the setup form in the back of the manual as a training the Butler to recognize your voice, with which literally plays the Beverly Hills Which I SERIOUSLY doubt Mastervoice licensed. And then you designate a specific knows you're referring to Device That's the easy part. I plugged in my Butler In A Box and turned guarantee that an obscure 40 year old piece of alphanumeric vacuum fluorescent display, and that And to do that, you need that critical bit surviving Butlers in a Box has been lost: to be a security measure - it's located on the change it. If you lose it? No pin, no butler Youtube has been trying to reverse engineer But I've got my pin: #S93K. So how to it," because this is a cutting edge It turns out there's a hidden pressure-sensitive of the Butler. But it's actually laid out keyboard - and here are the verbatim instructions "To enter information requiring letters Select mode of operation... The last three Alpha 2, and Alpha 3 (see figure 6-2). These in the Alpha Select mode of operation, these on the number keys 1 through 0 will be entered thick line correspond to the sequence of alphabet Example: Alpha Select Key 1, with the solid allows you to select the letter A, the Select Key 3, with the solid square in allows you to select the letter C, the AND SO ON, INDEED. I'm pretty used to translating poorly-written but how was anyone but the most hardcore pages of this decades before average people "And that in the future, most people will have It's kafkaesque, and the whole thing seriously was broken on this thing - but before we Gus Searcy started talking in and he said the 'commercial applications of the that a voice-activated home control device or someone with a disability. He was right about In 1983, his target price was about $300 - 64 and twice the price of the first he said $500 - this 1985 ad listed it for Butler in 1987 and wrote about it We're not done. A 1990 episode of The Home Show announced it 2000 - adjusted for inflation, it started out as and that's including only two modules, Every single device in your home required its house with 62 more modules at $36 each VCRs, alarms, electronic curtains, garage door, whatever - you're nearing $10,000 in today's speakers in every single room, and an electrician For this Butler to work on more than just a lamp And one of the most amazing things to me as I than 20 years it was announced over and over technology culminating with a feature Alexander? Did you call? laughter HOW? How did it stay futuristic every other piece of tech got a Well, speech and voice recognition was Bell Laboratories' "AUDREY" was able to recognize accuracy - and the only guy who could use it was Research Projects Agency - DARPA - was funding basic recognition models at the time: trying to using a series of algorithms to create a 'score' When Gus Searcy was touting his miracle Butler, Markov Models, like the earliest Dragon before DARPA's research broke enough ground which was then matched with patterns and so that it can determine and carry out a and process information to get Okay. Wait. So if devices at the time struggled Box able to understand four separate languages? The Butler could handle voice commands from program it individually. So if I've programmed have it work unless she has programmed it for her used. Except for naming the Butler. She would "Jeeves" she would have to name it "Godfrey" Because the Butler in the Box isn't and it can't really learn, either. But it can respond to four distinctly-programmed or The Black Speech of Mordor. You just to use with the Butler. It can't know anything - that technically means it can Alright, let me tell you what's broken. So I plugged it in and got this awful crackling "Hello." So alright, the speaker is broken - I of old computer speakers. And I got... THE SAME the setup, did the microphone test, and got NO be dead. I took it down to my Dad's shop, he knows maybe he could take it apart and solder some loose He turned it over and showed me which was turned all the way to 0. So we raised They call that "USER ERROR." I'm user. There was a microphone sensitivity slider fix my mic problem. The Butler has a to display how well your mic is working. And The internal microphone WAS broken. adapter and that kinda worked - then stopped guns. My dad called his electronics wizard the mic jack and sliding potentiometers, SIDENOTE: While Neal had it in his shop, away. It turns out this draws a put that in perspective it's up to 11 1/2 hours of Playstation gaming per month. Just Now. I read in a few places that setting up hours... but I actually trained my Butler it to recognize my voice by speaking a series Mood Lighting, and Airplane. You 18 commands to call 16 different people, set But I just did LAMP. And like I said you can the Butler anything wake up the Butler. So, to get it then tying a specific device to the command Then you just have to test whether it or you press YES. If your voice commands don't work, And multiply most of that whole process devices. And make that 128 times And then it can all just... disappear. Because I haven't told you the worst What happens if the power goes defeating aspect of this entire device - really the backup batteries will preserve the all the voice programming - for 3 hours. It was possible to change the battery clip for 10 hours, and it was possible to back up the - to a home computer using an RS-232 port, which The reality is if a storm knocked out power for Jeeves, Godfrey, Lurch, Geoffrey, whatever In that 1987 article, Jim Schefter concluded that the computer buff, and the handicapped," the device to "a slightly-deaf 80 it wasn't uncommon to have to So... did the Butler in a Box "You again? I'm home. Alright wait a minute." Y'know we're used to driving and the Butler in a Box is a horse Early technology is just usually really messy Jan Romein called the phenomenon "Wet van it the "First Mover Disadvantage." - because a canary in the coalmine for competitors, success. They're free riders as you take It's why you might have an Amazon Alexa in your you definitely don't have a Mastervoice You've never even heard of this. Not it's not a footnote on the pages for This isn't a tech video. It's a ghost story. There's a reason why so many of the are eccentric - they're the ones or sometimes they just don't care about the to improve on a product or to address But we needed gas street lamps to get to cheaper, an RS-232 port to get to USB-C. And we needed assistants that, honestly, don't even impress Because we need the eccentrics, and we need their Mr. Belvedere? May I help you? See you in the future.