(gentle instrumental music) - Today we're gonna be is coffee good for you? And it's a big question, and it's one I get asked a It's almost impossible to eat without some awful tabloid rag telling you it's either gonna kill or help you live forever. Now, the eagle eyed amongst that I am not a medical professional, and I should say none of And him, he's not even sick. So today we're gonna look at different areas of scientific research around coffee and health We are gonna take the science seriously, even if maybe that's the only Now, caffeine is one of the and it's humanity's And that means there's actually about coffee out there, But it's important to remember, scientific research like this is complex, often contradictory, and it So I'm not here to give you the last or final word on anything. So the first area we're gonna look involves We're gonna look at the relationship between coffee and all cause mortality. These are studies done asking the question does drinking coffee make you die sooner? Now, if you're looking there's two types of studies, there's often meta-analysis, looking at a collection of other studies, trying to combine and to look at broader trends. And then you have which tends to look at a try and collect as much and then again, look for trends or The news from the studies is pretty good, drinking coffee has been associated with a reduction in all cause mortality. The numbers are not universal everywhere, but one study showed a 16% reduction in all cause mortality and a 21% reduction in So this is great news, let's Well, hang on, we need to look at criticisms Firstly, these are not your standard, double-blind, very controlled trials. We're not taking a bunch splitting them in half, and giving one group and the other group no Ethics committees seem to get in the way of these sort of things. And again, nutritional epidemiology has a bunch of critics out there who see a lot of limitations A lot of the data about what people eat and And even then, well, from my point of view what Because if you look at the studies, well, it's not often clearly defined. And if it is clearly defined, is seen as being 125 mils, In addition, does espresso How much coffee was used to Did they have milk, or cream, or sugar, or something None of this is really covered, and for me that stuff is really important. So overall, the results seem that that seemed good, a little bit of skepticism Now, we did touch on this briefly before, but there have been studies at coffee and cardiovascular disease. And interestingly, they to similar conclusions. At three to four cups of coffee a day is the kind between that and a reduction One study, though, did point out that any benefits by the time you're drinking so maybe don't do that. (curtains scraping) Let's talk about caffeine and exercise. We know exercise is good for us, so does drinking coffee in the gym or in playing sports? There have been a lot, like a lot, of studies done on caffeine and sports performance. To the point that while browsing I found one study titled, &quot;Not Another Caffeine Effect And I think at this point that three milligrams to six milligrams of caffeine as a dose has a measurable impact and peak power output. All well and good, but there are a couple Firstly, these studies are And so while those improvements are measurable and repeatable, Now in the world of elite sports, relatively minor is But for the rest of us, it's important to set our And secondly, well, I want to think about this from the coffee enjoyer's point of view. I'm 90 kilos, so if I want to I need to get 540 milligrams If I wanna do that with filter coffee, that's gonna be a lot of filter coffee. (coffee gurgling) Even if I went with espresso, it's like four or five double espressos before I hit the gym. Now, do remember there at three milligrams, so you don't have to go to six milligrams, and it's no bad thing to have a coffee before you hit the gym. But again, it's about Speaking of hitting the gym, it's time now for an ad which is CoPilot. Now CoPilot is a fitness app, and they pair you one-to-one I was a little hesitant at the but it turns out it's like You fill out a questionnaire with your kind of general preferences and they pair you with a trainer, and then you get a video to go through your life, your schedule, and then your fitness goals. And after that they begin to build a completely personalized And it's been so helpful, and it's helped me in three specific ways. Firstly, accountability. For me it's been really on the other end motivating Secondly, it's a personalized plan. In the past, I went to but without a real plan, I wasn't making the kind of progress that I see myself making now. And thirdly, and this is the biggest one, it's flexibility. I'm not tied to my trainer's schedule, this is all built around me and when I can and want it to work out. And if that has to change it's as easy as sending a text message to someone and we can change if I'm traveling. It's been so helpful and made exercise really Now if you wanna try this out, then click the link in or scan the QR code, because so you can sign up and see what it's like to have your own personal Thank you to CoPilot for (machinery whirring) Let's stay with caffeine in which coffee consumption Let's talk about sleep. Now, I think it's fair to say we all understand sleep is good for you. But I also think it's fair to say that until recently just how important good When it comes to coffee, any benefits you may will be negated very quickly whether it's quality or its duration. Coffee consumption feels a Let's say you wake up tired, the first thing you're gonna reach for is probably a cup of coffee, but that caffeine may when you go to bed at night, resulting in a worse night's sleep. It may be delayed sleep onset, it may be a lower quality and so in the morning you wake Well, you reach for the coffee again. It's hard to argue against One study I read said, that tiredness had recently as the leading identifiable But it does feel like a vicious circle. This is important to remember throughout. People's response to different food and drinks is not universal. In fact, when it comes to caffeine, we've actually identified whether you are a slow or a So personally for me, no 350 milligrams is my maximum a day. But I do know people that after dinner and have no issues sleeping. The thing here to think about the quality of your sleep, it is certainly worth if not eliminating, caffeine and seeing if And don't forget the half-life of caffeine for most people is around five hours, which means it can take up to 12 hours to fully clear your system. You drink an espresso at midday and you go to bed at night and there's still a surprising amount of caffeine in your system. Now when it comes to how there was an interesting They looked at a population over the course of 20 years looking at diet and health outcomes, particularly heart disease. And what they found was very interesting and quite widely reported. They found that compared drinking filtered coffee, had an association with and lower levels of heart disease. They did not find the same association with unfiltered coffee, or a moka pot, or boiled coffee, or maybe even espresso. The speculation was that that don't get filtered are kahweol and cafestol. And we've seen over the years that increasing your consumption of those does potentially lead to higher If you have filtered coffee, that reduces those levels That's the idea. It is worth noting, however, that in the Norwegian drank more unfiltered coffee also tended to smoke more cigarettes. Before you throw out your French press or stop using your espresso machine, we should look at another study. There was one from Italy home I think of unfiltered they're all drinking espresso, there's no paper filters there. There they found that drinking had the same kind of positive associations with lower all cause mortality as many other studies had found. Though interestingly, again, those that drank more espresso in Italy had the worst diet and And drinking more than four cups a day, well, any association was Back to the Norwegian study for a second. They speculated that the positive benefits of coffee drinking didn't but from the polyphenols found in coffee. And now we need to talk And by the gut, I mean the microbiome. A while ago I spoke to Dr. and it was very interesting, and we'll start with those Now, polyphenols is a They're typically defense and they also have antioxidant properties. If you're a bit of a coffee nerd, you might have heard of chlorogenic acids. Those are polyphenols found in coffee. Now, if you wanna maximize there's a couple of important things. Firstly, one study looked at staling. It looked at light roasted coffee beans over the course of a year, and the quantity of polyphenols dropped by 85% compared to fresh in Secondly, if you're concerned about roast, well, lighter roasts than darker roasts. Polyphenols typically degrade over the course of a light to dark roast. Thirdly, if you're one of those people that carefully removes the well, know that you are throwing away an additional source of polyphenols. But it isn't just the polyphenols in coffee that might have with our gut. There's also the fiber. Yep, the fiber. Now, when he told me this I For me growing up as a child, this was fiber, miserable or delicious vegetables, but But it turns out it is a cup of coffee. A typical cup of filter coffee might have up to two grams of fiber in it, maybe three or more if you're So I think on both polyphenols and fiber we can say that coffee But while we're in the realm of digestion, we should probably also gastroesophageal reflux disease. (gentle instrumental music) Online you'll find a lot of discussion about coffee and reflux about preferring either cold brew or darker roasts because and therefore don't seem Some people may be confused by this, because stomach acid whereas coffee has a pH of around 4.5 at its more acidic end. So stomach acid is about a thousand times more acidic than coffee, so it seems weird that coffee would trigger However, the issue is in the esophagus, and so drinking acidic things it's not just coffee. It's important to note that in all the studies they found that, yes, there was a triggering effect to coffee, but coffee did not ultimately cause the underlying condition. It would be something that was exacerbated by coffee drinking, but There was an interesting study of hot brewed coffee to cold brew coffee. And there were a couple And yes, the cold brew in testing than the hot brewed coffee. Was pretty clear difference there. But a couple of other differences, the cold brew coffee less polyphenols in it compared And overall, cold brew was considered Coffee does improve another cognitive performance. Now it isn't just that it and more awake, it has some A couple of studies looked at elderly Mediterranean and found that drinking with a lower incident of Now, there are effects shown on other diseases too, like There again, there is an and a lower incidence of those diseases. Now it's early days, and you know, they're still learning more, and they do speculate that it's but other compounds in coffee too. But again, there's a in this particular field. So now we need to talk It is an area of concern for people. And you know, the fear is fueled by tabloid journalism in particular. I wanna start with acrylamide. Now, acrylamide is a compound that is considered carcinogenic and it is found in very Now, the levels found in coffee are very, very, very low, way lower than you'd find in And not all coffee is Robusta has higher levels And interestingly, the the less acrylamide that it has, unless you take it all and carbonized, in which case While again it is considered a carcinogen, we actually have no real evidence to higher incidents of cancer. And because the levels I would say it's not really something at this stage that the world seems particularly concerned about. But let's now talk about other cancers. There's been lots of some sort of relationship and having a higher incidence of cancer. And in all the papers I read that relationship was never found or seen. In fact, some studies showed a reduced incidence of cancer associated with high levels of around that three, four cups a day thing. Now in those studies, a reduction in liver and kidney cancers with coffee consumption popped up a few times, but there's no real consistent reduction in cancer likelihood that's common across And while I do feel no it is important to of these studies and that we can draw from them. One more thing while we're Now you might have seen some coffee companies out there claiming their coffee is better, because it has very low levels Well, firstly, what are mycotoxins? These are toxins produced And as the name suggests, so you should avoid consuming them as they may harm or even kill you. Now, they have been found in raw coffee, but in very low levels, And again, they have been in Robusta than in Arabica, in green coffee have very low, below the level that would typically cause concern. One study from Brazil if there was any difference in mycotoxins based on the processing method particularly looking at ochratoxin A, and they found there was no variation in the levels of these mycotoxins depending on the different processes used. In addition, roasting coffee to mycotoxins, reducing their low levels to extremely low levels. So despite the various marketing claims, I don't think it's something that we should particularly The good news, I suppose, is that you would expect the in specialty coffee where the most care has to be taken all the way So my advice here is buy coffee So let's wrap it up. You know, I love making and that seems kind of wonderful, because what's the point of if not to do more of the Coffee feels like a in that regards. I guess as a summary, as long as it's not or your anxiety, and you're then it feels like the answer coffee is good for you, Now I do wanna say thank you so much to CoPilot for sponsor this video, allowing us to do something Don't forget about that link to the free trial down in But now I wanna hear from you, did any aspect of this video surprise you? Was this very reassuring for you to hear? What do you wanna see more What kind of topics would on this channel when it Now if you are curious about reading more, in the description below to all the papers that we looked at in researching this video. Not everyone made it on screen, but there's a bunch of titles down there. If you know where to look on the internet, you can read them for free, and I would encourage you to do that and to do your own research. But as I said for now, that's it, that's coffee. Is it healthy? I think so. I wanna say thank you so much for watching and I hope you have a great day.