Amazon has really been a logistics world because of from all those returns. There's now nearly PS6 generated a year and 16 carbon dioxide emissions. That's the equivalent of million Americans in a The reason the circular sure these items find a landfill system. I have 113 stops today, so one. Then I go up. Then down, up, down, up, The idea that a driver feels lunch or go to the bathroom I've been tired, exhausted, People are hitting folks in They are hurting their own afraid of losing their jobs these routes done. What's going on? Is your coming to you guys with the of an Amazon delivery today, so I'm going to Then I go up. Then down, up, down, up, Delivering packages for the company is a monumental month's annual prime day I've been tired, exhausted, Charlene Williams and part of Amazon's solution of a package's journey, customer doorsteps. This is where I used to load We spoke with current former driver Adrian delivered for Amazon. From 2020, I would average sometimes 190 packages. Since 2018, Amazon has been these independent service partners or DSPs, across the U.S.. Now, DSPs notoriety for extremely There's a lot of aspects of enjoyable. You get a lot of The customers are really They're getting whatever But there's things that From urinating in bottles to that lead drivers to run cameras recording inside Dsp drivers have voiced big the relentless workload one day shipping promise. The expectation is Just go, cost. Historically, Amazon relied Service and to a lesser lift of last mile delivery They had a holiday season late and missed deliveries. A lot of it had to do with A lot of it had to do with amounts of volume at the lesser extent, FedEx. But it was at that point can't entrust this business So Amazon built an in-house Logistics. It's grown to trucks to Amazon airplanes, And since 2018, fleets of partners or DSPs. Amazon pretty much has It's Amazon's vans, it's They're providing it at a Amazon wants entrepreneurs, They want to control as as they can. These small contractors deliveries in regions all directly hiring any Amazon fights tooth and nail that these are contractors, because if they are to pay them benefits. expenses for uniforms, And then Amazon's cost And if Amazon's cost yours. They have built up quickly, largely because last mile network using having to go out and hire them on the books Amazon Logistics also paying outside carriers for Amazon now delivers nearly packages through its We estimate that Amazon $4 a box to deliver. This compares to UPS and unit at about 10 to $12. So we think it can be a do this themselves. Control over its own make one day shipping the Although the pandemic delays, the number of prime million. Since the early bigger independent also been under contract to But in 2018, Amazon went by launching the DSP for small businesses, with 25 to 100 employees. To get the program off the 20,000 dark blue Mercedes leasing them to DSPs at a It offered 10,000 grants to Black, Latinx and Native military veterans trying to The DSP model is separate smaller business model in workers make between 18 and individual routes on Unlike flex drivers, DSPs discounts on things like electronic package scanners The DSP is responsible for maintaining the vehicles to pay, benefits and overtime. It's cheaper. It gives them They don't have work rules You, the contractor, want drivers. Go ahead. Amazon will not do that. Amazon offers terrific One of the reasons they're don't have the cost From washing vans to workers that get hurt. They can put it on a DSP pay for it. While UPS, FedEx and the employ drivers, Amazon's unique. Well, Amazon has Fedex Ground has around independent service What Amazon is doing is a they're using DSPs that are delivery companies, but pop and a little smaller in The DSP is responsible for drivers fast pace. You're not really dealing You're doing it by yourself boss calling you, telling to do. I mean, I guess I'll I've ever had so far. Drivers pick up their or Amazon warehouse, then up with boxes organized All my back. They're over And then I have my on the shelves, and I got Each package is labeled with them a chronological order I normally always sort my waiting, and that helps me. Like when I get to my first everything's already sorted through and report time when I'm actually on Some DSPs also have the delivery trucks like those drives one of those for a She wasn't comfortable It's so much bigger. It's more room. You can the van. You have to stack. The package is way harder. Dsps also lease unmarked drivers, although these Any time you stop, any time will just fall all over the then you're done and then through things. And then of slowing you down. Amazon sets the routes and packages per driver per Using the Flex app. I have left 111 packages. So if I click on this map, for today. Amazon estimates it costs as rdsp. Amazon pays the rdsp profits can range from But the Rdsp business can Amazon is not about making It's very hard for a of profit based on what parcel. And also the intense ten, 12, 14 hours a of deliveries. Cnbc reached out to several would talk on the record. Despite requests, Amazon interviews with Rdsp owners pandemic. Amazon sales have expectations, and it's people. But DSPs didn't Some turned to federal aid at least $1,000,000 from Program. But the pandemic for drivers to join the Williams, who started So I just debriefed from my some snacks up for us. 1st October 2020 Survey of drivers found that 63% months, according to Amazon driver pay averages dollar 50 above the Sharlene Williams makes $15 Adrian Williams made $20 an Jacki Nash makes 2025 an Nash is trying to get a job They pay way more. They top out at $38. They got raises every six They do not slave you with union who does not want to benefits are excellent. Ups drivers belong to the Meanwhile, union presence DSPs are contractors. It's hard for them and You will never have Amazon UPS does because Amazon like two $50 per person, work rules. Union wages gives them a on a dime, and they do. The arms length relationship to sever the contract with time. This provides Amazon inevitable risks of the botched deliveries, In 2016, an Amazon driver old grandmother in Chicago. Her family brought a the contractor alleging pressure on drivers to Two more deaths occurred in The little corners that you both you and the community People are bused in their speed limit. People are running through yellow buckling their seatbelt the time it took just to unbuckle your seatbelt to get you behind schedule. A 2019 ProPublica report drivers were involved in since 2015, at least ten of In court, Amazon has responsible for the actions Delivery is also an business for drivers from Of the 5333 occupational more than 1000 of them were report by a labor union from the Occupational Administration. Amazon DSP lost time injuries at rate in 2020. Amazon holds mandatory warehouse employees before driving to DSPs takes away these kinds of day to day Instead, it relies on Amazon tracks safety which scores drivers on and use of mobile devices. It uses collective driver poor to fantastic, plus scoring DSPs. It was more of an emotional because you were always mentor score going to say Did I get caught doing Did something get scanned If you can see right here, And they say my driving on I enabled cameras in. Some vans, have four lenses sides of the vehicle and An Amazon instructional 100% of the time. I just don't feel like I hours out of the day. They say is for safety, if we were to get into an what we were doing inside But it just seems like it's we weren't in the wrong. They could try to pin it on The camera's A.I. software it detects one of 16 such as failing to stop at or pay attention to the Distracted driving. If I make a hard turn or phone or something like you distraction. Some drivers told us the of safety under certain aggressive dogs or The camera that's facing out I feel that's a good part pull up to a customer's altercation. If the feed, you know, they can go then take action that way. Shailene Williams has been once she had to go to until after she delivered The first leg it bit. It didn't break skin or time the dog bit me, it I made sure to tell the then I had to go to urgent I wasn't going to cause one come save me. So yeah, I finished my after. In a statement, Amazon told priority, which is why driver safety for years, camera based technology in accidents by 48%. We also use sophisticated drivers rouse, and in fact, finish their routes before So they've been driving out This since 6 a.m.. Yeah, that's a lot of Yep. With Prime Day this month, record breaking sales, and deliveries and pressure on When new people would come doing so good, we'd be Because if you deliver 120 to get 124 tomorrow and it We can work ten hour shifts. My heaviest day was I had packages. Sometimes I would Oversize packages out just Drivers follow routes on the determined by Amazon's package loads and delivery Some drivers say the routes busy highways carrying that the GPS has issues. The row had me backtracking beginning, so I kind of got But ain't nothing. I'm still going to finish over. I've had days where the GPS because their GPS doesn't Vacaville. Locked there. Blacks can't get in, can't Gate take a private road. I've had days where the and it was triple digits never heat up and I got taken off my route by the I'm going to pop out of Some of that stuff can having a route designer put these people in the neighborhoods, maybe we the daytime instead of 10 in November because it's when Amazon workers are Thank you so much for daytime because I would getting killed tonight. In other instances, drivers have time to find a There were times where I day. I didn't eat anything cause you to go to the When you have to leave your by the time you're back at That's like a whole 30 or away because you're driving go try to find a bathroom, whole flow of delivering Now, that's why some people plastic bottles. The only thing with that, necessarily throw them out the trash or pour them out. They just kind of leave disgusting. You know, next day and seeing sitting behind the seat or Some of my coworkers have urinated in hand sanitizer So you can only imagine you went to use the hand it was pee. That was a talk at our stand single day, like empty your shift. Nobody wants to The conversation was never That was never the conversation was throw them Cnbc went to one gas station the Bay Area, where the pee bottles away after She didn't want to give her camera in the interest of My guess station attendants urine bottles in the trash It was a lot of dripping. It smelled really bad. And the dumpster area, it frickin parking lot and always liquid in the Should Amazon be doing Yes. Maybe they can provide cities for them because I also in areas they know restroom. Amazon initially denied that but later apologized. It admitted that drivers do bathrooms, but said it's an not specific to Amazon. With Amazon, you have a One day you might be in a plentiful and the next day nowhere. And that's where I like FedEx and UPS, because plan their day. There's no way to have any Amazon holding my pee for the boondocks and there's Amazon reserves the right to things like public customers packages in Williams decided to quit last July. I had like the day from Hell I had gotten like charged then I got locked in It was like for like 5 But when you're on this that's when my coworkers that? Three drivers got not to tell anybody. And I was just like, I. Quit. A new feature of the flex they're supposed to take back to the warehouse if a for too many hours. I wouldn't say it's kind of any more of a challenge any other form of delivery. Amazon is also working to It ordered 100,000 electric Automotive that are all by 2030. Features include exterior a 360 degree view. Strengthened driver's side Larger floor space for the back of the van and better brake detection. I think Amazon owes it to drivers to make sure that safely. And that includes make 25 stops in a specific driver to take risks behind Adrian Williams suggests physically present in each listening to driver routes. There's the destination on Maybe it's too big of an designer in every down regionally because drivers in dangerous designers only in Seattle areas they're putting putting drivers in really, Drivers need people to talk hey, this didn't work. You drove me into a lake, into this lake next time. An Amazon spokesperson told addressing gaps in its capacity planning, hoping They have to ease up on the road, and it's not always idea that a driver feels go to the bathroom, he or People are hitting folks in They are hurting their own afraid of losing their jobs these routes done. So just say maybe things won't Sending back an online order It's often free for the instant. You can drop off or Whole Foods without printing a label. Sometimes keep it, but the truth is, free return. Somebody has to pay for on either Amazon or the It comes out of their makes prices go higher. In 2021, $761 billion worth and more than 10% of those And sellers told us they about a third of returns. From all those returns, billion of landfill waste million metric tons of That's the equivalent of million Americans in a Ups predicts a 10% increase holiday season, meaning all online retailers. At the head of the pack, criticism over the items. Now Amazon says it's zero product disposal. It started refurbishing, pallets of returns to be liquidation market. I thought I was getting a Turns out I got a PS423 eight and nine couch cover. Number three, couch cover As unwanted holiday gifts to find out what really returns before the rise of online simpler. Buy from a store, The item is inspected and shelf. But returning online complicated and at least says Tobin Moore, CEO of Toro. E-commerce results in 25% of returned, brick and mortar percent. With online holiday sales up year. Returns numbers are holiday shopping season January 22nd, UPS said it returns, up from 55 million It estimates that one in make a return this season three or more items before Up to an estimated 67% of return to online purchases 20. 60% preferred shipping Back this year, we're returns from the holiday at about $100 Billion The convenience of shopping habits that lead Wardrobe buying, where thing in three different And then they return the those other two most of the retailer shelves. Categories like apparel see rates in the tens of Oftentimes we're looking at Sellers we talked to like Normal, who now runs an plus third party brands, rate. Amazon wouldn't share numbers, but they're higher Here's an item we've got been selling party supplies since 2007, now at $10 there. After Christmas, he that some of his unsold specific, would be stored locations because of higher customer returns. I guess it's sitting out in lot and they can't grab it us. Amazon has since resolved Claussen, but it also just On January 18th. We're making $4 on a sale. It was a four pack, so anything I don't sell, I them back in my warehouse. that. Gets to the point probably end up being a Amazon has a lenient return allowing most items to be returned through the Amazon and its sellers like increasingly let customers So if you buy, let's say, a let's say $3 to make it, than the 5 to $6 it would officially to us. The return process can cost original price and as the the price of transport. And returns is up more than 6% Last year, we estimated, 100,000 in returns. So you're talking about And then there's bad actors increasingly no questions something American Martinez center work at Amazon, holiday season since 2017. I had some Beats headphones, Those are expensive and it open. But if you look had actually been open up. And so I just opened it up. I looked inside the box and of headphones inside. It's a shower curtain. Like some of the stuff looks actually used and then they days later. Oh, no, those are definitely. Worn. What's happening more people are being tracked returns privileges in the Legitimate or not, each costly, reverse logistics emissions at each node. This is true even when an returned to a store because shelf for that item not So almost all online warehouse specifically When it gets to our the trucks, straight on to the first people to get it inside. Sweetheart Returns centers Matson works are usually larger than forward with lower ceilings because returns unsafe to stack. They're concentrated in markets like Phenix, Las It's going to show the everything in there saying, this item or couldn't keep You look at the item and Is it the right item? Is it opened? Is it closed? Is it used? Is it damaged? You know Megan says they have about a initial inspection. Then algorithms determine The computer will go through you have to answer about It could be looking at it. It could be looking for spills, leaks, all that And then dependent on what questions, the computer item needs to go. If it's a new product, product to get resold on really needs to be in to happen. And that's more even if the customer hasn't When it can't be sold as up to four options for what each with a fee return to or by invitation only for which we'll get into later. With that first return to leaves the Amazon warehouse truck, plane or cargo ship. It heads back to the seller Then it could head back to sorting and repacking, then could always choose to You're essentially forced to that inventory to your expensive process, then ship it back into a Which doesn't make sense. I would say 80 90% of the Or you could choose to Disposal is an all too many of the biggest online Amazon says it sends no a last resort sends items This means it's burned. Or, in the words of the Agency, the conversion of materials into usable heat, a variety of processes, gasification, digestion and landfill gas Lower value items get You'll see fashion items actually a fair amount if And consumer electronics them can't go back to stock The thing that really that the computer system There were things that I worthwhile. Like I had a children's book, and the smashed upon arrival and And no matter what I put destroy the item. And that was kind of heart You know, I had a couple of like that same thing broken, even though there item it said to destroy it. And we see it just as a cost last year. Stephanie says he did $8 branded non apparel items license plate holders on We're a licensee of some of there, like the NBA, the universities, musical acts How do you think the NBA, there's like Laker liquidated? They probably For Stephanie's, merchandise option. Because you just can't tell Chicago Bulls main logo stickers and put it back So those almost always get Sellers say the fee that can be a third the cost of We save extra money by just because they don't charge item. Disposal of returns is not Luxury retail brands like criticized for burning merchandise to protect A Danish TV station of new and unsold clothes Richemont, the owner of Cartier, admitted to millions worth of watches Similar claims have hit Michael Kors, Victoria's Yeah, it's the easiest thing And too, sometimes certain want to protect their brand valued items out there on One solution is to speed up process. On average, we see that it retailer to receive a It figure out where it By the time that gets back season and it's either not marked down 50%. Facing Criticism for Some brands have also found returns, making them into You're turning their purses the shoes they can't sell up and turned into tracks. It does take energy to other items. I think first and foremost, original form, that's the environment. Indeed, Amazon says it's zero product disposal for Amazon devices, phones and Amazon gives customers the certified recycler or trade cards. And since 2019, program allows sellers to overstock and returns to nonprofit network called Amazon says more than 67 donated so far. Brands are embracing that. Selling new stuff, which just dirty, is now actually thing to do. And it's younger generations are But in June, British that Amazon was destroying warehouse, things like TVs, hairdryers. In response, for sellers meant to rehome of them. First, there's Historically, we have taken inventory, those sorts of retailers, sold them by the So your Craigslist or eBay vendors. You can recover about 5% of product can get liquidated. And that's a great, great not throwing it away. And at the end of the day, hands who can hopefully use So all this stuff is 10,000. And guess how much $575 a 94% savings. But let's open it. Youtube creators like Hope from finding online deals become a popular trend. There were definitely some was actual trash, but then an UGG robe or like some I'm like, really? They restocking. This is like a So Amazon and other major Walmart, Costco, Best Buy, partner with liquidation which auctions off unwanted the pallet or even. Truckload for one of our At one time, I think we truckloads of floor tiles standpoint. We've sold lots been north of $1,000,000 in It's like a fancy version of slightly more promising, jacket, though. Tag's still 50 bucks. Amazon also partners with allows regular customers of returns on liquidation items at a new direct to warehouse that opened in All over auctions started at It is single item. We have a lot of furniture, gates, quite a bit of outdoor and fitness, lots The fourth and final option invitation only grade and returns. Amazon gives the good, good or acceptable, sections of its site. used goods. Amazon renewed Amazon outlet for Overstock deal site called Woot that describes itself as a wild the Amazon community. These are a really good way more sustainable way rather putting them in a landfill. It's definitely changed my shop now. When I buy it, I usually try. Figure with it, like give it to a to somebody that I know like return, return all the Inside this massive The aisles aren't lined merchandise. This would be the antithesis e-commerce fulfillment snowflakes where every different set of slightly different in Every aisle is filled with Sony, Home Depot and more liquidated. These liquidators are coming of this product in bulk. They're then packaging it, reselling it. So it's turned into a much industry than we've ever Liquidation used to exist on The liquidation marketplace truck coming into the back cash on the barrel. Try to have special deals It was very unsavory, very We would shake hands with and you'd want to go wash It was a low life buyer's, a new platform by companies We went behind the scenes at how the only publicly is helping turn the We've sold road paving floors, scoreboards, postal We've sold delivery companies. Retail is in the midst of a part by the pandemic. Online shopping was up more season, and with returns on likely for online A record $761 Billion of last year. Returns that are often destroyed, landfills. The reason the circular sure these items find a landfill system. Now, amid mounting pressure and a supply chain backlog goods, there's a boom in Liquidation hasn't just It's a $644 billion And in 2008, it was 309 billion. So it's more than decade. This warehouse is 130,000 between 15 and 20 through this building. We take you on an exclusive booming business of excess and unwanted goods With slim profit margins second hand inventory. Liquidation hasn't always opportunity it is today. A lot of this used to be It's a good way to to hide nobody's looking at ago, no one was looking at But in 2021, more than 16 merchandise sold was from the year before. For online purchases, the even higher at 20.8%, up Processing a return can an item's original price. I would suggest that it's inflation is these huge to be sold at a loss is profitability that a they have to raise their And then there's the Us returns generate an tons of carbon emissions billion of landfill waste And retailers like Amazon, any items to a landfill, last resort. But are a growing priority for If buying one used item, it footprint, the boom and fueled by consumers wanting Buy those items. And so it makes no sense to They should be safely. Put back into circulation. What's become a huge pain is big business for Today, there are thousands the biggest ones contract of the world to receive process and sometimes them off as individual to other resellers or to growing segment of YouTube following by unboxing It's like a fancy version of slightly more promising, A good jacket, though. Tags still on it. 50 bucks. Other resellers have side or Poshmark. Some of the auctions I've bidding. And that's when I maybe this box isn't going And then there have been just going crazy and it's a So this item here, it's and auction off for what This probably has anywhere value. And we're going to 3 to 5000. Bill Andric founded with $100,000 of his My father and I used to pick Fast forward to the start We realized that a value for virtually any In 2000, Liquidity Services $200,000 marine vessel for By 2002, liquidity services By 2006, it was listed on where it's seen a pandemic. Today, Liquidity clients like Amazon, as unclaimed mail items left Think PS14 of assorted military vehicles and other Seven distribution centers economy challenge for over a million square feet And we've now eclipsed over platform. When pallets of returns Services warehouse in Dallas, the first step is what's inside and recycle This machine here is a takes a full pallet and a condenses it down into this Styrofoam, which then they which blows it back up into cardboard. We probably do about 200 recycled 20 tons of that same amount in We scan an item to come in They can put as the Items are sorted by workers been at the Garland We take it out and make That the product is okay to When items are ready for up. We've had a couple of We got some decorative desk, maybe. How much is something like Probably going to auction So it's going to start for And that the market is there what that is going to They're stacked into aisles auction on one of liquidity There's liquidation where individual items are bidder. Second, typically individual items and give packages, TSA items or While Liquidity Services is liquidators, there are the booming space. One is good by gear, which kids gear as an alternative Craigslist. This space in Trusted third party. Because. You know, it's stuff that In or sit in and. Eat it. Kristen Langfield her youngest, who's now bulky item. It's $150 to buy it brand And it was amazing for the. Few months that she used it. And then after that zero use big eyesore in the middle Another big player in the branded liquidation clients like Amazon, Costco. We sold somewhere in the individual items last year. Howard Rosenberg founded B eBay, where he saw the liquidation for others at So companies typically don't time and effort focused on pie. They want to focus on Liquidated returns, reenter individual selling on Pawnshops, flea markets and Stores wanting to reuse, impact on the environment. They're also getting a good Like we're being trained And if you can kind of do and get a good deal, I younger generations are But a lot of returns can't resale. You can see it still has original manufacturer. And so we know this is a used, but it was damaged And what we can do is donor glass from a unit not The refurbishment department Services business and How many are you doing We do about 100 TVs a day from 60 to 70% of retail. My youngest has come and, the machines and she's Stephen Boykins relocated to manage the Garland He's been with the company I try to explain it to her And it's like, hey, when will affect you and your This little piece of the about will have a vast 60 years. Gen-z shoppers like Boykins more sustainable retail overall popularity of all generations. In a survey of 1000 boomers participated in 39% in 2019. Refurbished electronics because of the shortage of When we get our refurbished recoveries back from it. So probably 80 to 100% of the seasonality in the But right now, the market the supply shortages on the Refurbished consumer canceling headphones or HP but also high end machines used to make We've seen Fortune 500 equipment in our to ship is shorter in the originating a newly putting it on a vessel, ocean to a port that's months. And as the secondary market now selling refurbished Amazon has entire sections There's warehouse deals for Amazon renewed for outlet for Overstock and a site called Woot that sells Best Buy now has an online box appliances and TVs, and refurbished computers and We're going to remanufacture HPE warranty, or we're certified contracted remanufacture it themselves party warranty or part parts. The liquidation boom has hundreds of bargain. Bin stores are popping up names like Dirt Cheap and where dozens of customers camping overnight to get offs of liquidation bins and bins of returns in they can flip for a profit. Stores like Big Lots, Bargain Outlet, etc. all of these stores and has gotten into it. So back to consumers because nothing wrong with it. Liquidity Services has its consumer trend at the Deals warehouse that opened Customers pick up items auctions that usually start This is especially helpful like kayaks, but something Be very expensive to ship It's so big. That's the beauty of our We can take these items and then have consumers bid warehouse. Ingrid plans to open a warehouse in Dallas later The more people discover inherently wrong with this marketplace that sold it to I can save significant benefiting all parties.