There's It may be the fact that something you back from doing It maybe the fact that you feel like you are right now in your life is not It may be the fact that there is this even though you may be living Or perhaps it is the feeling of waiting for the universe waiting for a sign that the decision If that's the case, then this video is That sign to go all in that you were meant to live existing in this universe of ours towards Chances are that and I'm guessing it is not but because you have done too that give you energy This is the moment today, right now, you Where you start that bring you energy Where you step into becoming You were not born into this world scroll aimlessly through social media, watch television, conform I mean, just imagine watching a film the main characters sat in their room It would suck right?! So embrace some main character energy that will make a Netflix documentary The only thing standing between are your daily habits and choices because you become what you repeatedly do your energy These are universal laws and you will be blown away Focus on what you can control and you will make crazy progress you are the answer You may be telling yourself The fact is you will never be ready to move across the country, toxic relationship or to follow through We spend too much of our lives And it's an absolute tragedy one thing that we can never get back No one, no one is ever ready. And this is why you must begin before If you are waiting to have everything prepared, you The truth is, you already know what to do to go all in, to live the life You have done the research, you have done the thinking, It is game time now. It is time to put your ideas And if you are lacking anything, my guess I know because I lacked courage I lacked courage I lacked courage to embark on an adventure But once I did, the courage to go all in, beautiful True courage is not the absence of fear. It is the decision to act You have overcome obstacles in the past, For tomorrow's Yes, you will have some bad days where you feel like you want to give up, not sure you can make the progress towards Don't let the bad days that are about to come How you respond to life's inevitable obstacles is where resilience is born and where you discover The only way out is through. To face your fears head and into the light. Because when you face your fears head As Marianne Williamson is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful not our darkness, that most frightens us." You can't get the rewards I mean, how can you expect with zero risk being taken? Those that you look up to are taking risks None of us know if things will work out In fact, a truth is that you, me We are all winging it. And when I think about courage, You see enthusiasm, ideas Commitment and execution Yes, consistency is important Without commitment, And this is the difference between those Too many of us are only interested: we're interested to do something, we're But interest means whereas commitment is a far different Commitment is you saying to yourself, I'm investing in this path. Most of us are interested, And when you make that step that's when you begin to make the progress interest says I should and I might. Commitment says I must and I will. Interest loves Take a moment to look at where you are This is what you are telling the world If you want things to be different, to that difference. As Johann Wolfgang von Goethe noted, "At the entire universe Because it is in your moment of commitment in the universe around you as it hears And once you step up and commit you begin to understand It can be easy to remain in your comfort If you want to live you must commit to going all in and to being better than who you were To set sail It is not going to be easy. It is going to be challenging and very, However, in life Regret is hard. Discipline is hard. Choose your hard. Pleasing everyone is hard. Pursuing what you love most is hard. Choose Your hard when she wrote the following words: "Every Age has nothing to do with it. We are all in the line without knowing it. We never know how many people are We cannot move to the back of the line. We cannot step out of the line. We cannot avoid the line. So while we wait in line, Make sure to have no regrets. Make sure you are ready." This poem is Because this is your time. The world is waiting to see your magic. We are waiting to see your gifts We are waiting for you to shine. We are waiting for you to revel in and I know you have what it takes be your most loving cheerleader, because you can't sell you to others So let's do this. Let's make it an epic year. Let's go all in Be bold, be courageous, however small, for the universe's And our gift back to the universe those unique talents, I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, which part resonated most with you. And if you are going all in this year, let Wishing you a wonderful day And in the meantime,