Today, let's talk about Power Apps: what it We'll also create a simple app together, just so Power tool. [Music] Power Apps are custom apps but they aren't apps that you sell on the app it easier for you to do some tasks. They're apps. And because your phone already has a lot of you can combine this with Power Apps. Now, you can create apps from different you can also go directly to the Power Apps website, Teams. In this case, I'm going to go to and scroll down to find Power Apps. just click on &quot;All Apps&quot; here, and you're going to select it, and it's going to take Now, this is structured in a very similar to get started creating your app is to You can have it in SharePoint lists, Excel Now, since we're a big fan of Excel here, I'm Excel. Now, before I do this, I just want to so that's a requirement. This table in my case priority of the task, the task itself, the person, into an app, so I'm going to close Now, this is a good way to get started with your organization, I don't recommend that you use is that you can only use Excel that's on your also limited in the number of rows that it can in the background, they're going to lock it so it's always best to start with a SharePoint list file that's in my OneDrive for Business. That Power Apps is going to take a look at all the called &quot;Tasks,&quot; and I'm going to connect to that. Apps is going to create a fully functioning app and that final app is going to look like this. I'm These are my two rows of data. It already added search for items, the ability to add a new row to interact with this as if it's an app, and to or click on this button here. We can try it out. details. I see the deadline, person, priority, and go back. I can add a new item here. So, I'm going get this calendar picker, which is great because and it's automatically given me the I can add a new person responsible for this, the task. To submit this and add this line to our Okay, so this is how the app currently functions just so that I can show you, this item was and that's the line that we just added. a new column as well. Now, here's If you're using an Excel File as your source, or adding data in the app. That's why it's especially not if you're sharing your app just click on the X here and we go let's take a look at the different options we have we can do. So, notice when I click on the different and I have the ability to change the formatting Search Items, let's change that to a Light Gray. Now, sometimes it's difficult to select you can select it from the side pane here. Down that's the correct object I want to select. I'm So as you can see, any object that we have here the side pane look? The moment we connect it to our One is the Browse Screen, that's the first screen Screen, that's the screen that comes up when And last is the Edit Screen, this is the screen when you select this, you go to here, or if you come to this screen here that's empty in that On the Right-Hand Side, you get the Properties of Color, Border. You can make objects invisible, depending on the type of object that you select. generally your Control Options. For example, what field?, and as you can see, the formulas here are us Excel users, it's quite easy to get the hang Person Text Field here, and instead of having To be able to do that, I can edit So, I'm going to click on the Edit Form Object Here, I can also see how the fields are So, for example, I want to bring the Task up, Next, I want to make the Person a under Control Type, I have Edit Text, Values instead. Now, we need to give so I'm going to click this object that is now a I want in there. But, notice it's locked, before customize it the way I need. Now, under Items, put the names in quotation marks, I want Lili, Let's also change something else. Instead of instead. So, I'm going to select the Box that's the name of the object. I'm going to delete delete is not removing this because the object you can unlock it from this panel here, but you More options and Unlocking the Item. Now, and we're going to take care of these X's here To do that, go to Insert, under Input, I have I'm going to rename it to Priority. Now, I don't and from the Properties Window, I'm Okay, so far so good. Now, we need to take care sure that when there is a checkmark here, we is no checkmark, we type a No, and we also are basically the formulas that are behind this text to our Excel File. We need to change this It's an IF Function. If this Checkbox, the name equals True, and since we know from Excel that the to type this out, if it's true, then we want close Bracket, and Ctrl+Enter and we're going let's take care of the second error. This one is do with the Size of our previous control. So, to Checkbox1 instead, and also on this going to test this in a second, but before we do Remember, all of this was in the Edit Screen see how our app looks the moment we open then we see whether it's a Priority and the Task. app? Well, you can easily adjust that in the is your Browse Gallery. You can update the just show the title instead. Now, here it I don't want that, so I'm going to edit this Okay, so now that looks better. Now take a look SortByColumns, and it's sorting currently by column like Deadline. Okay, so that's a simple have under Insert. You can insert Media, Camera, your phone, add a Picture and so on. You also that you can use on your app. Once you add an That action can be, for example, to navigate to and you can also add your Flows here, so that you Flow is going to get executed. Now, before I I want to show you something else. You can also the Alt Key and clicking on a button here. So, If I hold down Alt, the Refresh Button becomes I just see the formula that's behind this. Okay, this, go to the next page, hold down Alt, click on let's quickly test this. I'm going to create a the Task itself, the Person responsible, and yes, I can also sort this in Ascending or Descending in this case. Okay, so far so good. Let's bring look on the Excel Side. Priority became a Yes, the Deadline. As a last step, let's go ahead and You can save it to the Cloud or to the Computer. After you save the app, you want to share it you have the option to add Individual Email Everyone in your organization, just type in become a Co-Owner if you want or just the ability to keep in mind: because the underlying file is to the Excel File separately as well. Okay? I'm going to click on Share, &quot;All permissions you also get the Web Link to the web. You also have the ability to use Apps or by adding your app to Teams. This A better alternative to using Excel as a So here, I have a simple list and I'm going this is very similar to what we had in Excel. I'm going to go with SharePoint. Now, I can from that site. Power Apps is going to go ahead big advantage to using Lists, and that's the data lists, you can also have choices and dropdown by Power Apps. Now, we can check this. If I notice I have a Drop-Down for Priority. So, Priority1 or Priority2. I also can look for the name and you get your selection here. Okay, so that our data isn't locked if someone has the number of rows, SharePoint Lists save us a lot Before we wrap up, I want to show you This is the first app that we created which is on More Commands and Add to Teams. Here, I and then upload it as a Custom App to Teams. So That's it, downloading here. Now let's switch to upload a Custom App. If you don't see this option, a custom app. In that case, you can submit your it and approves it, it's going to be available for I have the right, so I'm going to upload the Now, I can add the App directly to Teams or or to a Chat. I'm going to add it to a Team. going to add it to the General Channel in Finance dialog box where we can see a description if we we're adding. We can post to the channel about to add our app right here and make it available the underlying data for this one is Excel. we have to make sure that they all have access to they should all have access to that SharePoint I can easily add a new task, let's pick and then add this. This is automatically going I'm curious what you think about Power Apps. at your work? Can you see it being used for I hope you enjoyed this video. If you and if you're new here and you consider subscribing before you leave. Thank you