Death is just a door. Only our body dies. While our soul will never die. Do you ever feel like you've lost something being here? No, I found everything here, why lost? Poverty, chastity, and obedience. That's all, we are here. There should be a hermit here hiding among the rocks. But we've been told that as soon as he hears footsteps, he runs away. Here on Mount Athos, there are no women, precisely because women can be a distraction. We must pray incessantly to the Mother of God, these spirits of the darkness of these times that only drive towards the pleasures of the flesh. My name is Giuseppe, and I have a mission: to travel the world to meet the most extraordinary people on the planet and ask them a simple question: What is happiness to you? Welcome to the "HAPPINESS PROJECT" We just left the passport office where we managed to obtain the "Diamonitirion," that is, the most peculiar passport in the world, because thanks to this, we will be able to enter the Republic We are about to enter Mount Athos, Mount Athos is a micronation hidden It is one of the few theocracies existing in the world, and the monks are considered In this spiritual nation composed of twenty monasteries, about 1600 monks from all over the world choosing to isolate themselves from the vices of the world, In fact, Mount Athos is the only republic in the world because they are considered too great a temptation However, access to Mount Athos is also limited for men. In fact, only 110 permits are issued per day, of which only ten are reserved for And as if that weren't enough, is through this old ferry which, when the sea is rough, I assure you, anything but pleasant. We're off to a good start! This great adventure on Mount Athos. Soaking wet! However, to enter one of the most sacred and mysterious places in the world. We've arrived. I wanted to present myself the sea had other plans. After a cold start, We immediately meet a monk who is meditating A rosary! How many beads does it have? One hundred, but it depends. It can have three hundred, one hundred, one hundred and fifty, thirty-three... Do you ever feel like you've lost something being here? No, I found everything here, why lost? Monasticism is, if you don't want to get married and start a family for any reason, a path you can take, you can become a monk. You either have a family or become a monk in the Orthodox tradition, there's no middle ground. We try to keep the promise we made to Jesus Christ during the rite of tonsure. Poverty, chastity, and obedience. If you have the Holy Spirit, you lack nothing. You have everything. You have everything. You are happy. This life lasts 80, 90, or 100 years, while in the afterlife it will be endless. This life serves to prepare us for the next. The good thing is that if you have the Holy Spirit with you, you will be the happiest person ever in both this and the next life. May God be with you, brother. Thank you very much. The Holy Trinity will save us. Thank you. Only the Holy Trinity can save us. Three kisses, okay. Three kisses for the Holy Trinity. Okay. This has been a nice welcome for us. Thank you very much. May God bless you, brother. This is indeed the perfect welcome to enter Karyes, probably one of the smallest capitals in the world, about a hundred people live who take care of the administrative And there, inside the Greek consulate, once a year, all the abbots of the twenty monasteries for the Republic. The adventure is about to truly begin, to meet a priest who will take us inside our guide is a Romanian monk His stories make Mount Athos even more fascinating, as he explains how he and his brothers know knowledge of medicinal herbs. My abbot knows many things about herbs. Medicinal herbs. He found an herb that can cure cancer. He has helped many people with this herb. It is very rare and grows in the mountains, he recently went out to look for it. Many people he helped were cured of cancer, and one of them, to thank him, gave him this car as a gift. We are about to arrive at the holy monastery of Vatopedi, and you will see the places where you are allowed to enter. One of the most important monasteries on the mount is Vatopedi, where one of the most precious relics in the world is preserved, the girdle of the Virgin Mary. Inside, time does not follow the modern clock, which means that the day begins with sunset, to pray and immerse oneself in the spiritual dimension that seems eternal. And not only are women not allowed, but even female animals are prohibited on Athos. All the animals we see around, especially Even female animals are not allowed on Mount Athos. First impressions are not very positive. There's a lot of reluctance to talk to us. We're not being allowed into any offices. They're not welcoming us at all. Few monks want to talk to us. This adventure might be harder than expected. They kicked us out. They kicked us out of Mount Athos. It makes me laugh, but there's nothing funny about it and we're waiting for so this You already know that the ending of this video and probably if you see the monks upset from now on, At this point, given our experiences in adventures like these, like being left stranded here in a port without food, but not for us, Do you know what it is? Well... I'll explain it to you right away. Small Giants is a very Italian company that produces Yes, you heard that right, cricket flour. It may sound strange, but as with every report, In fact, insects are the food of the future. For example, the crickets used to make these rosemary crackers have more protein than beef, more omega-3 than salmon, more potassium than bananas, A true superfood, delicious but above all sustainable, helps reduce environmental impact. So you enjoy all the benefits of edible insects And for the more curious, there are also these whole insect snacks with chili lime or barbecue flavor, Under the video, you'll find a discount code and as always, I'll leave the link in the description Alas, the only place which perhaps is metaphorically the most symbolic You come here when you have an inner conflict, when you have temptations. All the monks come to the cemetery, look at the tombstones, and reflect. This can help you against temptations. I should soon be here, so I have to be careful about how I live my life. It's a warning. It's a warning, yes. This is what we all become in the end. After their death, the monks are brought here. Then, depending on the monastery, after 3 or 5 years, their bones are taken and cleaned. They are washed with red wine. Oh, wow. Yes, and with olive oil as well. Yes. And they are placed in this spot, you can see some of them from here. Our fathers say that some of the people who are chosen by God have a cross on their head. For example, this one. You can see it here. Yes. Usually, people don't have this cross on their head. But you don't know who he is because it's not important. No, it's not important. What's important is how we stand before God. How do you feel in this room? How do you feel? It's impressive. It's... Don't you feel at peace? Are you afraid? No, I'm not afraid. I just think that one day I will be like this skull. Yes. Death is just a door. We don't die, only our body dies. While our soul will never die. So I guess that's why you are here. Exactly, when you become a monk, you start thinking about your life, your inner life, your soul. Because choosing this life is not easy. You put aside all pleasures and all your desires. We want to change ourselves, our soul, our behavior, and become new men. And I still didn't know that these powerful words would be a warning for what happened just a few hours later. I didn't expect this situation this morning. Neither did I. Yes. But somehow the devil pushed this man to spread, at two or three in the morning, some rumors among the monks here on the sacred mount. My abbot said, "Stop them. Leave them there and come home. This is something that doesn't concern you." Yes. And I must obey, I can do nothing else. I think our adventure ends here. The first time this has happened, it's never happened making videos, but I just found out that... we made some videos about and they're kicking us off the island. This has never happened before. This great adventure on Mount Athos We just found out the exact reason why They showed us the message As you can imagine, It's the video about... about Muslim trans people, about ladyboys, but I didn't expect this about the Waorani. Sure, I'm not a great... not a great naked view with the Waorani, but... not even that... And then I was also surprised by the fact Yoga, yoga was harshly criticized and the vaccine. I don't even feel angry after seeing the reason We've been doing this work for many years now. We believe that everyone in the world has the right their vision of happiness, and we will continue to do so But we couldn't give up like this, try to meet the only monks Here are some of the monasteries. We are trying to reach some hermits, hermit priests who have decided to live far away from the other monks in... in solitude. They are called "wandering hermits" completely perched on the mountains, far from everything, but they live like this, This should be the access point the monks advised us to use. There are usually hermits here Now we will go to find... here it is. And it's wonderful. This was used by Saint Joseph the Hesychast It is said that he prayed all day, and so this also became a symbol So if we wait, we might find There should be a hermit nearby who hides among the rocks. But we were told that as soon as he hears footsteps, he runs away. Others instead... there are many legends here on the mount about twelve hermits who... who live naked among the mountains, only that they are invisible and so they could be And then there's another one they say, he burns it, runs away, and finds another one in the mountains. at least one who wants to talk to us, chatting with us try to stay separate from... from civilization, Hopefully not, We've found one of the many cells that host hermits in the mountains. I'll try knocking to see if anyone's here, but it seems... uninhabited. Unfortunately, yes. Excuse me. It really seems like there's no one here. Very humble, A bed. Of course, there are some figures, A table for eating. Here the hermits come to retreat to pray, Think that the main goal even while they sleep. In fact, they try to... semi... semi-conscious to pray all night long, 24 hours a day, Prayer must accompany them throughout the day, and this is the life of a hermit. But no one's here now. It's a bit risky to wait, if this hermit, the hermit who sleeps here at this moment, I'd rather continue to see if we meet him in... in the mountains, Upon hearing us, feeling us, I hope not. In fact, the monks told us that we're not really disturbing them, on the contrary, some But we must be cautious let's see if there's someone, otherwise we'll head back. As is perhaps a bit fitting, but just when we were about to lose hope, a wonderful conversation with a Romanian monk was enough to avoid the mistake of judging this mystical place But how did you decide to live on the mount? I chose to follow this art of monasticism because the Lord gives us weapons, because we are at war with the forces of darkness, we are not at war connected with ourselves. And the weapons are the cross, And like in any battle, you need to know... how to use these weapons, and it's an art. Monasticism is called the art of... the art of arts. There is one of the laws of Mount Athos and I wonder Here on Mount Athos, there are no women, and you Yes, exactly, here on Mount Athos, there are no women. Precisely because women, as you have well thought, can be a distraction. God created us to... Reproduce To reproduce, to... Man is attracted to woman, woman is attracted to man. Here, Mount Athos is also called the garden of the Mother of God, and the Mother of God asks to... give us a special grace to continue But we must, we must pray incessantly to the Mother of God, who is a female figure, to ask the Lord Jesus Christ to give us the strength to fight against these, these spirits... of darkness, these demons that push you only towards the pleasures of the flesh. You said that women are a distraction, so to speak, It's like running away from that distraction, but you don't really face it. When we are in the city, in the world, We have the female figure everywhere, but we don't appreciate it as much because it's around us. When you come or you withdraw into the monastery, a very hard struggle begins with... with yourself. This struggle with the flesh is not easy, but it's not impossible. With God's help, it can be done. I've been... I've been here for eleven years, the first time I saw a woman was after six years. But slowly. Technology has entered this place. The worldly spirit... forgives nothing, if it can enter even the most hidden caves And so it happened to see a video or a photograph... and I saw a female figure, but with different eyes. And if I asked you what happiness is for you here? I realized that happiness does not exist But it exists... it exists in glimpses. In this life, happiness is mixed with sadness. On the same day as your birthday, and you don't know whether to be happy or sad, right? And this is given to us by God with His grace, Life, in truth, is the cross. Life is one, and we must see it as a gift. We all must carry our cross. Do what... where are we called? The pursuit of happiness is not always easy. It can even be frightening, But the monks of Mount Athos, even if indirectly, the human being. To be happy, The monks here have chosen to dedicate their mission a sacrifice that makes their life And it's fascinating to reflect on how every life on earth our heart into, whether it be in relationships, It's important to remember that living this life