You little girl. Jiang Xiaoyuan, don't run! Jiang Xiaoyuan! Did you steal money from our classmates? Don't move. What are you doing? Are you still not gonna stop? Do you believe I'll report this to the teacher? Go ahead. Do it. Am I bullying you? Go ahead. Report the teacher. No. Does it have anything to do with you? Do you want to report to the teacher? Qi Lian. They're going to beat me. Aren't you going Yeah. Wait here. I'll report to the teacher now. Go ahead. We'll wait for you. What about you? Why don't you leave? You're asking for trouble. Let's go. - Hurry. Just wait. Let's go. Now every time I can feel the wind The whole world draws back as it roars No need to tell me what to do Jiang Xiaoyuan, stop! Don't run! Just let me flow Feeling the pull of time and space Clutching the wind in my grasp On paths untrodden We don't have to wait for the light My rhythm I once lived a chaotic life Using loneliness as an excuse Yet I brought snobbishness And misunderstandings into my life Used to take things for granted Let them fade away with time No longer fantasize about Those unintentional thoughts Lian, you're good. You're in the top ten again. It seems like Lian doesn't study hard, but the truth is he's finished the high school courses. Start a new life Break doubts with silence When every time I can feel the pain Say goodbye to past frustration Don't need to tell me what to do I can feel the pain in my memories [Baiyang Nanchuan High School] Until I become a wind too I'll blow away reality's weight Towards skies bright In the vast dreamscape My rhythm What are you doing here? I'm looking for something. Do you think I'm stupid and don't know what you're up to? I'm sorry. I didn't know you were here. Keep acting. You've been following me for two months and known my movements very well. How would you not know that I'm here? What's more, what kind of crocodile tears are these? Aren't you good at biting people? If you bite them hard, they probably won't dare I can't get punished for fighting, or it will affect Why is it my business? It can be your business. If you help me scare those people off, I can help you. No need. That Internet bar you always go to will be under renovation for at least a month. Where are you going to stay? I can help you. I can solve your problem of where to live. Can you help me too? There won't be a next time. Otherwise, I'll be the one to hit you. If you don't want to get hit, tell your parents to come to school. I don't have parents. They've passed away. I'm on my own. [Tianyou Internet Bar] [Under Renovation. Qi Lian. This shop closes at 9:00 every day. I'm responsible for cleaning the shop and locking the door. I'll come and open the door I'll go to school at seven. You can stay here, and no one will know. I can also bring you breakfast. I haven't said yes yet, have I? It's up to you. I'll save you the place anyway. It's done. You let me in so late at night. Aren't you afraid I'll do something to you? I have knives, scissors, and razors, all sorts of cutting tools in the shop. Now I know that. If I make a move, If you really have you would have done it in the equipment room. Perhaps a place is more attractive than a bean sprout like me. Let me dress your wound. How many knives do you have on you? I can't tell you that. I can never be too careful. You seem to be crafty. Without being crafty, how could someone like me survive? If I don't agree to your deal, will you put poison in my breakfast? No. I have to take I can't go to jail. Are you a good student? Of course. Don't you know who's the first in the class? Those who bully me all the time are probably jealous. They're afraid that I'll make a name Don't move. It's done. Fine. From now on, if bring me breakfast every morning and do my homework for me, I'll agree. Does a troublemaker like you I thought you weren't afraid Forget about it. I'll do it. I'll do all of your homework for you. If I can take exams for you, I'll do it too. All right? Get out of here. I'm going to sleep. Okay. Whatever you say. Why don't you get some clothes if you feel cold? Did you bring breakfast? Yes. You can wash up first. Jiang Xiaoyuan! Where did you get the buns? I made them. You made them? They're not cooked. [Baiyang Nanchuan High School] [Tianyou Internet Bar] Lian. Come on, sit down. Xiaoyuan, sit down. I've turned on the computer for you. Jiang Xiaoyuan. Don't be so selfish. What about mine? Thanks. Hey What are you laughing at? Study. Hey I'm here Say hello I'm getting closer To your blurry shape In every corner My heart is waking up from a deep sleep Waiting for you For a long time Stop. 'Cause you are my favorite thing to do Like moonlight in my hand Like shooting stars in my heart I could just go anywhere with you Did you write this? Tear it up. Your deep vulnerability My heart is only here for you What's going on? Why are you so bossy? Go away. Tell me about it. Tell me. Come on, tell me about it. Hey When you're helpless Come to my game tomorrow. Hey I'm not going. I'm here Say hello I'll go. Don't lose badly tomorrow. To your blurry shape In every corner My heart is waking up from a deep sleep Waiting for you For a long time I could just go anywhere with you 'Cause you are my favorite thing to do Like moonlight in my hand Like shooting stars in my heart I could just go anywhere with you 'Cause you are my favorite thing to do Will you show me Your deep vulnerability My heart is only here for you Why are you looking at me? Here for you Here for you I could just go anywhere with you 'Cause you are my favorite thing to do Like moonlight in my hand Like shooting stars in my heart I could just go anywhere with you 'Cause you are my favorite thing to do Will you show me Your deep vulnerability My heart is only here for you Here for you Here for you Here for you Here for you