FastHTML can transform a multi-page application HTMX to do that, using FastHTML? Let's transform application to a single page application, and application, will we see any performance gains? magnet application. It gives out a PDF in exchange drawing of how it looks today as a multi-age that we are jumping around in. Now, it's only the will translate into a single page application. a single page application, as it is today. So we are the three pages that we will transform. It's page. And here we have my want, I want to keep the part, as navigation. I just want to switch out the So that is my vision, for a single page flipping, as a single page application, using that we need to look at. The first one is Delete, after it's been pressed, or delete some text after and that is for instance to put a new line in the and that is for instance to put a line on the and swap exchanges some piece of HTML with another cards we will be using the action Swap! If you to this channel, because I have a few more apart from the actions what is more of importance of one action, say delete, that is the HTML part a Delete on a button, it will just remove HTML. Now we want to exchange the entire card. something that's called out-of-bounds. There but I will only look at the easiest way, the swap_oob = true. In our case we will set an just call it &quot;content&quot;. So transforming One, put an ID on the content card calling it ID = the hx_swap_oob = true. This means we're allowed to define the action of the first button to be a function of post for root, that actually returns forms for entering this information we need. form information. So let's take a quick peek on which sets up the page from the Welcome site. That post root, and then we have the post root function third card as well, so this function when we have this signup button will go to an hx_function as an hx_post function. Itself this one goes to the a it is just internal routing. And for the last function for this form, as before we wanted to set the database. But in this case we don't want it thank you message to the card in question. as well. If we're talking about handling the where everything on that part is explained. after we have this, we actually have a single page celebrate! Now what do we need to remember Swap Delete Prepend and Append, and then we have everything is just Hunky Dory, let's just run it! to look at the actual messages going back and using firefox. And to see the messages I'm using message. The TX message is just a get, empty get, what is shown in the RX message the full HTML page this is when we we press the button to go to the second. It doesn't really contain anything it's look in the RX part of this one, this is actually as we wanted. And then, if we have filled out the message first on the TX part the form data that we and in the RX part we have the answer back from from the thank you page! I find it quite easy to to the DOM model, if you're using a tool like If you don't like Firefox, why don't you Now we have a running application. Wouldn't it for the multi-page application compared to we have the code stats. If we look at them, we but it's not really significant. Secondly we and the client. Here we actually see a significant. At least for this application. And Suite. We're looking at 6.6 second compared all-in-all, minimal changes! I would like to say any real difference here. But I'd say multi-page case, it's the just the same! So we're starting to is actually fast in FastHTML? Running it, it is which is about the same speed as a Django are compable for any kind of framework, that you the only thing that I can see, is actually the rules in your head. And that is the four applications that I've done with fastHTML, default PicoCSS package. This is the default, one individual? Next video, I will venture far far not miss out on any more content on FastHTML, it will show up here, so click it, and I