- [Narrator] Rice balls. - [Vlogger] Look at that. Michelin-type of ramen. - [Narrator] Collaborations like Santouka, milk tea, this is 7/11 in Japan. But in the US, the company is more known for Slurpees and hot dogs. - It's just not as appealing. My perception is people go - [Narrator] The world's has over 13,000 locations and made over $72 billion But now, it's working to bring to its American stores. Convenience stores have selling tobacco and gas. But now, as cigarette and many expect gas sales to slow, many are racing to find and doubling down on food. But shifting a business this This is the economics of 7/11. (light music) 7/11 started as an American company, but it went bankrupt, twice. Once in 1932 during the Great Depression, and again in 1990 as it - 7/11 is now owned by a Japanese company. Seven &amp; I Holdings. - [Narrator] A majority stake a Japanese supermarket chain that had been operating for more than a decade. From the beginning, the Japanese owners said American 7/11, both its central operations had a lot of catching up to do. - The Japanese model was They would pour over what break it down by gender and age, and use that to inform The American system just wasn't - [Narrator] There were between US and Japanese 7/11s. The US stores were typically larger and attached to gas stations. The Japanese stores didn't sell gas, but had a much wider array of fresh food. Japanese stores only stocked They had a proprietary distribution system that made multiple shipments Orders were customized by store based on sales data, demographic trends, and local weather forecasts. American 7/11 stores were and some items were never being purchased. When American operators began counting items in their stores, some found that 40% of their products were selling less than one unit per month. Now, American 7/11 has its where franchises place orders every day based on company recommendations of whats selling nationally and regionally and their own store data. - They're making on what they're going to order based on what they understand the customer wants to purchase, what new items are going - One of the most interesting lessons that we've learned from 7/11 Japan is their approach to which they call tanpin kanri. And tanpin kanri is we localize our assortment We actually help our stores so that they have the right balance of a consistent assortment of products that consumers and customers as well as items in the assortment that are perfectly appropriate - [Narrator] This is especially important when it comes to food. seven eleven japan is of meal options. - You're not gonna believe the choice of food in a convenience store. - [Narrator] American 7/11 also has a big food and beverage business. In total, it sold over $17 about 24% of its overall sales. That included 315 million cups of coffee, 153 million Slurpees, and But next year, it hopes to from store brand goods, including food up from less than one quarter in 2022. That's particularly important given shifts in the convenience store industry. - So if you think about what there's fuel, there's tobacco products, and there's food and snacks. Gas is already a low margin business and it's at risk long-term. If electric vehicle adoption Tobacco very profitable, Food, though, is a category where demand just isn't going away. So for convenience stores, it makes sense that they would wanna double down on that. - [Narrator] 7/11, it currently has 17, so-called Commissaries around the country that make food for all Now it's working on upgrading them. It's partnering with Warabeya, a supplier for seven eleven Warabeya's new factories in can make a wider and more than 7/11 has been able - Things like being able new protein capabilities, introduce new types of products in the food area to our customers. We recently launched a product that's a spicy miso ramen soup, not something you would being sold at a 7/11. - [Narrator] It's adding a The main question is how And this is where data - When customers come into our stores, they're in an immediate - [Narrator] Capitalizing on this is a key priority for the company, and it plans to use its massive American seven elevens monitor daily sales and for loyalty members, they collect demographic The company's loyalty program has 95 million members. Building on that the company's investing in targeted advertising on screens and TVs throughout stores. That's to spur impulse buys. - It helps not only 7/11, but also our advertisers, our vendors, to target our customers So for example, in the morning, with a message around a hot Whereas later in the day, with an advertisement and a beverage from our cold vault. - [Narrator] And for potential customers who aren't at the store, there's delivery, the fastest growing part It's highly profitable for the company since delivery orders tend to be for about double the amount - How the brand's grown starts with what's the customer want, where do we think they're going, and how do we meet them - [Narrator] A big question will match the enthusiasm 7/11 sees in some of its other markets. - In Asia. I think there is so much excitement around convenience stores and the types of food So if they can bring even a little bit of that excitement to the us, - [YouTuber] We're gonna get some musubis. - That would be a great success. (light music)