If you have ever worked It's often hard to concentrate, and then there are Did somebody mention And if you want a decision, you will To raise your spirits, and hear from And you might remember a but now you have two... Three... well, many. Sound familiar? Well, all of these examples It's a Second World distributed to resistance to cripple the Somehow, we've taken known and turned them into an How did this happen? If we start with Keynes... Okay. And the 15-hour work week. Okay. Can you tell us a little bit and about what Yes, well, Keynes wrote and he was trying to and imagine what For the most part, when people back then imagined everyone thought, well, but it's going to where the technology's that we're all going to We'll have robot Automation will eliminate the eventually service work as well. And that was, in a way, the that people were it was to eventually get to the point Globally, we're getting to the point where we could be The question then So what's really happened is that we've created these And these have gone from which they were in Keynes' time, to something like 75%. We created supervisory jobs, And millions and millions and And one of things in a lot of the testimonies that was just how unhappy they were, and just how confused they were, There's always this shame about The constant charade and that you can Of course, you to be honest about our but he's in that same charade. So you only see half of him. So we're in this The play is based on the But we have not just we've added many And like any play, this too The star of the show is who has a star's The CEO's main role is We can accelerate and gain a stronger financial backing This speech is often and has very little to do We are now delivering the best But paying them more doesn't As, all too often, they are It continues to be an exciting time We remain here to win. But the one cost that is the human cost Of the disruptive reorganizations and I had finished my PhD in so I had been trained and I got my job at the And I was thinking I'll develop some new which I had done and how people how they cope with really or threatening, And I thought, well, why who encounter this And I started interviewing them. And they got Some of them would get angry Some of them would cry, some of And I'm thinking: Hmm, Maybe there's more So I would ask people at the so when you talk about do you have kind I mean, is there a Usually it was: 'I never talk about this with anybody. So I started looking at literature that seemed like they would capture or There was 'dehumanization Oh, no, no, no, no. You know, The dehumanization. No, What about 'detached concern'? Well, you know, it was You can't, it doesn't, you So I was still trying to figure or about what they And so I would ask the next 'dehumanization in self-defense'!? 'Detached concern'? 'Burnout'? Yes. That's it! Burnout! Yeah, first the physical: But this was like an exhaustion But it was really intense, like so intense that I could I live on the first floor. I could not walk up I had to hold myself halfway and catch my breath. It was just, I felt like a 90 Well, I thought it was the flu. And at one point my GP, I went to my GP, and he He said, this is not the flu. You have got all the symptoms I remember very well, after I think it was a good And I went back to work I remember very well It was really like, I was confused. Actually, what really popped where the hell I mean, how come I continued to where I'm at now, but I That's what came to my I wanted to become an engineer, because my grandfather And I thought: I want to So always having Perfectionism in order to show Mediocrity is just Your body is saying: time out. You really fall into this new My whole self and my compass, which I realized that Because otherwise I You feel like a failure because who fell through the gates and that's all down to you. If you think it's only you, or very then the focus so what's my problem? Why am I not capable enough? And so what we saw that is known as And what that means is that you're not just that you're exhausted but you're You're not doing a good and you're feeling Well, you're not going to go over about how you're feeling. No, what you're going to do is, you're 'I'm fine. I can handle And just move along What you don't know is that there who are doing the So your social perception smiling, happy, doing fine. I'm the only one When, in fact, the reality is behind there are a lot of oh, my God, I'm the only one. On top of the problem of not being half the time you don't So if you think about your average You'll sit there and and I'll sit there quietly and check my emails while How it can empower the And accelerating adoption... Connect and enable Make the move to enable the How to speak the So, I blame a character He was swept up in the which was washing across the Krone gets hired by Pacific and engage in what they call a Workshop participants designed to broaden perception And Krone's role was really to by introducing them to his which was drawn from a Russian Devotees of Gurdjieff would reciting mystical And the board members of Pacific And they thought that their employees Now, if you look back it sounded scandalous but now it's part of People need a justification They need a language which which people have in companies, to give them some substance So there's the provides a way of which is corporate life, often. If you go back to the what would you say if you had to What is it for you guys? What would you name as I think it had been coming out, when I felt it really strongly, was where I kinda like felt myself like running errands, Or where I felt Wake myself up, brush that was the hardest That was like the that lead me to recognize It's embarrassing to admit, that it would be easier if I would on my way to work. Because that would solve the That was just how deep I felt so anxious, it sometimes because I knew what was waiting. And I just felt like if somebody would solve the problem, then But these are things that I totally refused the I just felt like I'm invincible, This cannot happen to me again. So it was kind of realize, admit, It was really a long When they talk about then why change the name? Why not just call it what With burnout, we're The exhaustion response, It is the stress response. Chronic, everyday stressors. It's a warning. If you start seeing it's telling you not who is In the 19th century, we got this invention of a new who were managers. Those managers often came So they were quite good at They began then to that they could potentially tune In about the late 1970s, was no longer treated as The purpose of the corporation Companies began to say: how And they began to like a kind of balance sheet, which they could measure, as if they have no family, as if It's not even just a It's a flickering digital somewhere that can be easily Burnout is all in engineering. I mean, rocket you know, So it's not a surprise that when they called them burnout shops. They advertised because this is what But it was intended It was intended to be a sprint Now the model is for a marathon. This is the way we do The human body cannot run Most people come to work really And it starts with the most So when people come to work, And too often in organizations One of the great challenges of Creating a common purpose. How that mission or purpose It's the manager that see how that work connects Often times, we put people for a couple reasons. We ask managers, how did you They've been around the Two, I was really successful before I was a manager. Neither of those two things correlate The motivation is: I because I'll probably I'll feel like I've reached a Those are two human that it's hard to unless you have a path they have a high maybe even paid for being an exceptional They may not think about may not even naturally care So they think almost and not about how that So what it does is, it deteriorates But it also isn't good But that's the system, that's happened And if you're gonna ask me That would be one of them. Here's the financial logic: You make somebody a manager, just because they're good at doing a not to do that job anymore, and instead to do a job that With the result that the productivity of everybody else in but you still have Meanwhile, the new manager has to prove to his So he hires a management It produces a cool report, but But you still pay Well, I mean, I don't know how and I think there that you could really have a Which made a complete difference Can I ask a quick question? It's something that everybody You know, you talk about the about working life. Do you remember a between expectations I was thinking about this. As I mentioned earlier, I'm and I have a little sister. She is two years younger than She is the wild spirit and the one her entire life, whereas I've been and the one who gets good grades and just do what And that's why I said earlier that I So I jump on the train. Then there is the school, you don't upset the teachers. Then, of course, I It's law school or medical Be the good girl. Maybe the point is, I feel like I shaped into, suffocated into being something smaller. And that's why I kind of developed and I am... there is Like there is something deeply wrong with And perhaps that is something fix through these different like go to university, because I felt that as Vanessa, as the person I am. Like I am the person who is One of the things that has fascinated It's almost designed to destroy the Somehow when you're they're beating that out of you, they're destroying Then when you go that kind of gets You never quite get back to but you know, maybe just enough that you can Many of the rituals and are designed to prepare That's why they have bells and you have to move And there's no particular from room to room. The interesting question for me Because it's not like very are going to be working My conclusion is that for a life that isn't going They're teaching us not to that any intelligent person who Like: why are we if we don't get any Why are we writing this report, All these things that anybody in a but knows as a condition of their If a guy shows up in a white coat Faster than Nokia ...just play along. Children first figure out that they are separate when they realize they Take the scenario where say a and he moves a pencil, and it rolls down the table, If he moves his hand again, This is great! Oh, I am an entity that can And that's the moment and there is a world, and And when you take that It shatters their sense of self. Really, the very basis of what It strikes me that we what we see as Because if we've got to a situation around the world are saying there is no social there is a clash between what our economic system and what people actually There's a disjuncture. People feel there's They have some kind meets people's needs, desires... It's about furthering something So when you enter a company, they make you feel like you that they choose And it's not you that applies for pick you up from out of nowhere, and they choose you to be the So then you kind of have to So you don't have an identity So is this the lucky one? In Italy, we say when you have the one who catches Something like In three years, I have been where people have been losing their where they were working So in the back of my head, you are giving the best of yourself to they will call you and say, you I had a relationship for a few and, of course, we decided And then we could not buy a because it was just too low. I was the one who had a better So I felt like if I fail in this So we will not build up a So I was really I was doing extra work at home, so I was not really there as part At that point what happened to the point that I kind of I was really frustrated, because I thought I've worked I want to settle down. I want to do those kind Corporations are a grand example It's all about promise. It's all about They're constantly undergoing reorganization, restructuring, You fire people, you hire people, you shift around the at the end of the We know lots of people There are any people and it often becomes extremely Often those things are done, not they're done because the CEO has Who it does impress who set the price or of what they think the Nothing actually changes on but the share price goes up, because they've said the right But that also means, because the CEO on the basis of stock options One of the most pernicious things is that the more your in an obvious and immediate sense, the more your work has a clear on other human beings, the less If you look at the graphs, wages whereas productivity So the big question is, what's Again, the story we tell ourselves, and this time it's is that it all got Basically, the profits went to and they basically I was running all my life to so I could have a good life: I'm going to buy an amazing and then I want to be single and then I want to have it's just a big dream. It's just an illusion. So for me to give up so and not achieve the results that I My brain stopped this is the feeling like something and I could not picture It was unbelievable. The original sabotage manual was written for a world who worked operated a machine. But we've been just as effective where most work but on the brain The authors of the original at how effective our Only 20% of the workforce Those that manage them And that less of the benefits of Why are we creating creating an environment in which necessary work, beneficial work, that it just sort of tears out they go. So how to make that realization, that the setting and the really, as much as possible, how do we design it to make We've known for a long that we have to design that adapt to the human body. You may not like the way but that's the way it functions. I guess I'm talking more about the psychological: what makes people tick? This is the weird thing for me, and this is the conundrum because I love my job and I'm actually, for doing something I feel like I'm I'm working in a but yet I'm still experiencing So how have I still got to this You know, what is it that Or why am I having panic You and I could and there's something about it What has been discovered in a is at least six areas where that kind the fit or the misfit occurs, that of greater engagement If it's a bad fit, the risk of burnout The workload is always huge It's always like for yesterday So, the one that everybody and that is the one that is to problems with exhaustion. And, basically, the or the misfit, is that the and the resources to handle You don't have enough time. You don't have the there's no way that that What's the point. It's a never-ending process. It's never ending, it You finish one task, and because they need to The second one is control. And that's really the extent to some discretion, some autonomy, some way of deciding how best to do As opposed to, you have you must do this. And what we find is, it's but if you have high workload and It's when you have high It's like Sisyphus pushing up at the end of When there is that means that no matter what how great you are and getting things done or something, no good feedback comes. The reward is not just about I mean, I don't want to that's not usually the biggies. The biggies are the social that somebody noticed you you really got us out of a bind oh, thanks so much. And you know, we couldn't Little things like that. God, I'm going to have and I'll just be walking Because it was like, you know, and you and you need to and you need to do this, Community is really the people you come in Okay. We have a flexible time. We have a flexible working you have a meeting. So, I mean, how can this be flexible? When it works well, when there is --you know, we sort of help each we kind of clarify -- when there is trust, when there is you know, a notion when all of that is working well, quite honestly, it is Even though I gave Listen guys, this And I got a burnout, because They just hide the problem and they keep on doing When people feel they are that treats people unfairly, this will raise the level And if there is a value We need to take into account and how they function. What makes them motivated? What do they need to recharge For generations, people thought to someday create a world where where robots will do repetitive, stupid labor that Now, we're living a capitalist market system, It can allocate that will guarantee the maximum Maybe it makes people unhappy, but ultimately it by being the most efficient I mean, any efficient should be able to reallocate resources and everybody still If we can't do that, there's I mean, we have an insanely, I think we should change the Let's not talk about production Most work isn't It's not changing transforming it to make it's trying to keep it the same. You know, you've got to take care Then they tell us, we're going to create robots This is a big problem. Well, you can't have people They'll be depressed. They'll just They won't, they won't what to do with themselves. People do want to contribute to for the people around them. And left to their own devices they're more likely to do Well, how do we know we're full of annoying street mimes Or crank scientists with or who trying to create All we need is one of to be Miles Davis or one of those crank and you've pretty much