Ministry of Culture The Russian Military present People abroad called him Ivan the Terrible, he was entrusted with the most secret He was the first Chairman into a modern professional But in the middle of 60-ies, he was deprived of all ranks For many years, the name of Ivan Serov However, he believed justice would be restored. THE SOVIET UNION IVAN SEROV In September of 1923, in the town the elections of the chairman of the district executive committee A very young man who used to head His name is Ivan Alexandrovitch Serov, That member of the Komsomol where he had to solve starting with opening post and telegraph offices and ending The fact that such a responsible post wasn't a rare occurrence at that time. The Soviet Russia and the Bolsheviks needed Ivan was a suitable candidate. worked as an agitator and was respected Serov started his career early and but at that point, In two years, when Ivan turned 20, he got a party voucher That was how a chairman turned into a cadet Ivan Serov recalled: The life conditions were especially hard. a torn blanket and constant cold However, Serov decided that those unworthy of his attention. He chose to study Starting from the time only the best officers It demanded deep knowledge of physics, Serov immersed himself in studies. As a result, out of 180 graduates After the graduation, Serov went The young commander managed to win the trust of the management of his troops and His bustling temperament and fast speech Plus, he didn't drink any alcohol at all. Once, Serov met a beautiful where his garrison was stationed. But shyness got the best of him. He didn't lose his second chance. The girl's name was Vera Abramova. She had just graduated from school Ivan offered to meet again. Vera agreed. They were destined On March 19, 1932 the young people married and moved in the very same day. The bride's dowry consisted and a small suitcase They were constantly short of money. They sewed a winter overcoat for Vera from fabric for the military uniform One year later, Serov went on serving. From Kamensk, he was transferred Together with him, his family his wife and their small son. By 1935, Serov had become an acting head of the headquarters However, Ivan requested to be sent to study at He didn't suspect then that his decision When the three-year term Serov was looking forward He was extremely disappointed that the graduates the People's Commissariat For Serov, a man who served and intended to go on serving in future, He was sure that as a military man, But would the people at the top listen? In January of 1939, where he had to meet of the Internal Affairs, Levrentiy Pavlovitch Beria came to He replaced Nikolay Yezhov, the direct organizer of 1937-1938, the so-called Big Terror. Beria began to curtail repressions In 1939, over 7,000 employees were either fired or arrested After mass firings of the Internal Affairs, To fill them, a couple of hundreds of the military academies graduates Ivan Serov was among them. Serov waited for his turn His fate was to be decided... The head of the NKVD He informed Serov that he of the Chief Police Department Serov was offered a very high position, He was an artilleryman, Ivan knew He had to explain Instead of an answer, The decision of the Central Committee was signed by Stalin. The police work was very different Apart from strict discipline and an ability it demanded very different namely cunning, To fight the criminals, Serov had In the course of his work, he dealt with robbers, He studied the criminal jargon. Soon, Ivan was instructed of state importance. He had to find out were acquiring Soviet passports working in the country undercover. And then to block that channel. A failure would mean the end Trying to find the trace, he personally Not everybody was ready to cooperate but by that time, Serov could make The circle of suspects was narrowing down. At last, a complete puzzle was collected It turned out that whores from drunk residents of Moscow The criminals were immediately detained. And Serov proved to the Soviet leadership that he could manage the hardest tasks. After that, Beria announced the decision Serov was appointed the head of the Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the second most important republic Ivan had to start working Just a couple of hours remained Serov barely had time to his wife and their six-year-old son. A day before, an event that divided the history into "before" and "after", took place. On September 3, Great Britain and France The Second World War broke out. Under those difficult circumstances, the Soviet Union had to act Stalin knew that sooner or later, The Soviet leadership to prepare its armed forces On August 23, 1939, ten days before the USSR and Germany signed the so-called Pact An additional secret protocol The secret protocol stated against the Republic of Poland, on the territory of Western Ukraine to protect the local population. a major part of those territories and only joined Poland in 1921. The protocol didn't impose to wage a war on Germany's side. the Red Army entered the territories mentioned in the protocol. Serov became the People's Commissar at the moment a military operation The NKVD was entrusted with a task of crushing the positions and suppressing any attempts From that moment on, Serov was dealing but with a dangerous, On September 17, entered the territory of Poland. On entering cities, were seizing points of communications, and other strategic objects, water pipes and food storages. Serov headed the arrests and deportations starting with the Polish officers factory owners and criminals. In the evenings, when left alone, In his notes, he was openly describing Serov kept the very existence because many of the things were considered state secrets. If the diaries were discovered, Serov would be fired or judged by the tribunal Meanwhile in Kiev, It took Ivan two months to get a vacation Right after that, he went back to Lvov. There, the situation was very tense. Officially, Western Ukraine but many people and didn't want to lay down arms. They were blowing up storages, and employees of the NKVD An undercover organization, headed by Colonel Okulitskiy Leonid Okulitskiy, was a member before the start of the Second World War. His alias was "Medvezhonok", In September of 1939, he participated After the defeat of the Polish army, and began fighting the USSR. To capture Okulitskiy, Soon, he received information that Colonel was hiding Serov's assistants advised Serov But he didn't want to risk it, He had to catch him right away! However, Serov expected one more issue. On seeing the employees he could attempt to take his own life. One of Serov's subordinates Together with a police officer, and jumped at him with accusations, saying that he didn't pay Okulitskiy insisted Then, the police officer interfered. He said that they would have and who was wrong And led both of them to the police car. Okulitskiy realized The alleged seller tied his hands The first thing he found The plan worked out by Serov proved Okulitskiy didn't expect the trick After his arrest, Serov, as a valuable employee, For his successes in finding he was awarded with a medal of Lenin. Meanwhile, the hardest trial was on the threshold. three groups of the German armies - invaded the territory of the Soviet Union. The Great Patriotic War began. During the first months, the Soviet troops were retreating They were backing off to Moscow. it seemed that the enemy was on the verge and entering the capital. if the Germans seized Moscow, The plan included a secret part. It was Ivan Serov who was entrusted Should Moscow be surrendered, he had to disable over a thousand including electric appliances in the metro, The Decree of the State Defense Committee established a group in Moscow and around it, and it was headed by Ivan Serov. The tasks of the group included that the enemy could use the Leningrad Highway, Tverskaya, Moreover, of 1,119 buildings in the capital. Among them, were the railway stations, the Column Hall the Moskva and National Hotels as well as that has been housing The operation of mining the objects and very dangerous. Ivan Serov's group a couple of kilometers of Bickford They had to make sure that all the explosive mechanisms The mined buildings and block the way to the Kremlin, Any wrong action could lead to thousands Many of the mined buildings Serov's job wasn't limited by that. a person of great personal bravery and with playing the part Should the Germans seize the capital, Ivan was to stay in the occupied city. Preparing for sabotage work he founded a guerilla detachment. According to the legend, Serov was a He hid the driving license, uniform and passport in another Ivan Serov recalled: choose the party comrades and we'll make surprises for the Germans. if Denis Davydov could do that in 1812, we have much more possibilities now". Luckily, no extraordinary measures On October 10, Georgiy Zhukov overtook By December, the turning tide in the development The Soviet troops started The enemy was thrown off Moscow for good. During the first years of the war, Serov He believed that he, had no right to stay in the rear. he was more needed in Moscow. However, Ivan did get to the front line, It happened in 1942 when the enemy tried to break through and seize the oil fields The loss of those cities that could be a real catastrophe. Units of the NKVD troops were sent to defend the Caucasus together They got under the main blow of the enemy. During the defense Ivan was one step away from death. Once, while inspecting the positions, he and a group of his closest assistants got under the barrage of fire One of the mines exploded a couple He was covered with earth, However, in a few minutes gathered his strength and ran for cover. However, that concussion kept reminding Up to the very old age, Ivan was losing conscience The mountain passes were saved. For courage and bravery demonstrated Ivan Serov was awarded Meanwhile, the German troops The Germans were trying to engage In some Soviet regions, A part of the locals to support the forces of the Wehrmacht. In 1944, and other regions of the country, the Soviet government decided into Siberia, Kazakhstan and Middle Asia. the entire nations were punished The Kalmyks, Ingushis, Crimean Tatars, Nogais, Bulgarians, Germans from the Volga regions and some other nations were forcedly The commandment engaged Serov into the organization Those deportations were accompanied hunger and loss In 1989, a Declaration on Recognition as Illegal and Criminal. All the repressed nations In August of 1943, Stalin entrusted Serov with organization That trip was organized in dedication of preparation to an operation Ivan had to spend three days He was responsible for providing security and all other necessities. While Stalin was at the front, in the course of the Battle of Kursk, the Soviet troops seized The Commander-in-Chief smiled: "In Ancient Rus, people used to celebrate by ringing the bells or with fireworks. Serov was happy to support that idea. In the evening of August 5, 12 volleys were fired That was how the tradition in the Soviet Union. Since that time the sky above Moscow The Red Army was liberating one city after another moving further On April 21, 1945 and the First Ukrainian Fronts by the German capital The representative was among the vanguard formations. He was the first to inform Stalin that the Soviet troops entered During their conversation the Commander-in-Chief gave Serov to capture Adolf Hitler and hand The events were developing fast. On April 25, the troops of the Red Army On April 30, Hitler committed a suicide. Eva Braun, his lover whom he had committed a suicide too. One day later, Josef Goebbels and his wife Magda On May 1, the Soviet troops where Hitler's headquarters were situated. Serov came to look for Adolf. Soon, he found an entrance where Hitler spent his last days. The truth was only disclosed Hans Friche surrendered. In five meters from the entrance, Serov ordered his assistants Bodies of Josef and Magda Goebbels as well as of Eva Braun At the very bottom of the hole, The face and hair were badly burnt it was the Fuehrer. Ivan Serov recalled: that I didn't execute the order and failed to capture that bandit alive. That didn't depend on us". As it later turned out, before his suicide Hitler ordered his adjutants However, they didn't have time The shots were heard everywhere. The adjutants wanted and limited the fire After discovering the remains of Hitler, and the Goebbels couple, their whereabouts They were moved from one place until in February of 1946, at one of the NKVD bases In April of 1970, the remains The ashes were thrown in 11 km from Magdeburg. The war was over. On May 8, 1945 Ivan Serov participated - the ceremony of signing Three weeks later, with a rank for "Heroic and Brave Management During the Seizure of Berlin". Serov didn't return He had to execute one more Stalin's order - in the occupied Germany on creating Those were the most modern designed to hit distant targets that called the "weapons of retaliation". the FAU-1 jet plane missile and FAU-2 They were first used to bomb London In the course of the occupation of Germany, the troops of the allies to the secret technologies It could lead to significant military State security of the USSR depended in obtaining the information For a long time, It wasn't difficult to find in the mountains of Turingia. However, by underground galleries were empty and the launching pad blown up. Only separate spare parts remained that couldn't give the entire picture. The main designers Those who stayed in Germany In a couple of months, Serov found a well-known engineer From him, However, it was hard The German designers of the super-weapons Serov guaranteed personal and sent the most valuable experts The further works were headed Boris Chertok and Sergey Korolyov. The Soviet missile-building project that had been started back in the 1930-ies, After Serov succeeded in that task, he was appointed the first deputy However, right after that It began the day when Ivan noticed a tail. Being a man well-familiar Serov soon found out that he was watched by the employees a competing special service. They failed to find compromising he got involved The trophy case was a campaign by the Soviet generals. Marshal Zhukov He was accused of stealing and other trophies on the territory Except for Zhukov, were judged in the case. In the course of the investigation, They testified that Serov Like many other generals, though in much less quantities However, it wasn't the worst accusation. The Minister of State Security who was in charge of getting rid of him for long. and competition between the Ministry of State Security and the heads of which were trying Abakumov stated Serov was wire tapping the members Accusation of spying followed by an imminent death sentence. Serov seemed to be doomed. Many of his colleagues However, He weighted the options wrote a letter to Stalin with a request The Chief made a pause... and then gave an order For a couple of years, not fearing for his life. It went on until March 5, 1953. That day, his patron Josef Stalin died. The epoch of changes and Serov had to find his place in it. During years of service in the army he was used to execute orders He showed initiative when necessary. But he never interfered Then, everything changed. The fight for power began Serov had to make decide whose side to take Among the candidates two main figures were the most prominent - the Minister of the Foreign Affairs and Secretary of the Central Committee Serov was closely connected Beria was his direct boss. With Khrushchev, Many people thought as he had the special services, the main pillars of the regime, However, Serov supported Khrushchev. He participated In the pre-scheduled day, cut the phone wires in his office and arranged arrests Soon, the ex-Minister Together with him, a couple of hundred Had Ivan taken the side of his boss, Instead of that, Serov began In March of 1954, for the position of the head The KGB, the Committee of State Security by the Council of Ministers of the USSR The main functions of the KGB counter-intelligence, investigative work, guarding of the leaders as well as the fight with the nationalism, In the second half of the 20th century, were known all over the world. they evoke the sense of pride and became a symbol of repressing However, that the KGB was executing its tasks Ivan Serov did a lot for that. In essence, into a modern effective He headed the KGB in the years between the Soviet Union Mutual spying was playing The CIA, Central Investigation Agency wanted to gain access and didn't spare To respond to that challenge, Serov reformed the bodies Hundreds of trained agents Recruited foreign agents Among them, were George Blake, who sincerely believed in the supremacy and was voluntary People like Blake were seriously risking for in case of their disclosure career, freedom and life. In a result of that, the foreign secret services, often Serov who stood at the helm was nicknamed "Ivan the Terrible" It seemed that nothing However, Khrushchev began to drift and was even rude to him Ivan Serov recalled: for I knew him well for 16 years, Did power and position However, it wasn't only the character The atmosphere in the country changed too. In February of 1956, the 20th At a closed meeting, condemning the cult His speech came as a bombshell. Soon, cleansings began Everybody who was closely connected lost their former influence. Ivan Serov was a stranger among people He had been unsociable since youth. He refused to act hypocritically No surprise he soon had a horde They were persuading Khrushchev that the head of the KGB had a trail like deportation of nations. were detrimental to the reputation Soon, Serov was demoted In December of 1958, the Main Intelligence Department In the hierarchy of the state power, Serov believed that it was unjust; however, He loved intelligence work Under Serov's supervision, Now, their number exceeded not dozens Stig Vennerstrom, code-named Eagle, was one of the most valuable achievements. to even out the balance and the socialistic blocks Thanks to Vennerstrom and other agents, the Soviet intelligence obtained data about the dislocation of the NATO troops blueprints of the newest aircraft, It allowed to keep the country safe - save millions of rubles However, all successes didn't decrease the number Soon, an event took place that played On October 22, 1962 his subordinate He was suspected of spying Are you a double agent? I decided not to make a choice Oleg Penkovskiy, in the history He offered his services and the British foreign In the course of 1.5 years, to the West On May 11, 1963 the Military Collegium accused him of treason After Penkovskiy's arrest, Serov was supporting a traitor and being It was a lie made up to discredit Serov. Ivan tried to explain But nobody wanted to listen. On February 2, 1963 of the Hero of the Soviet Union, demoted from the Army General and dismissed from the post The next appointment became Serov was sent to Middle Asia as an in military educational establishments. "Despite hard feelings, and went to the new place of work. and without any reprimands, where military educational and carrying out educational work..." However, nobody in Moscow was interested in the work of a general By that moment, Khrushchev himself New leaders sent Serov to pension At the age of 60, Serov, turned out to be useless. wrote letters to the Political Bureau, All letters were left unanswered. the name of Ivan Serov was crossed out He wasn't mentioned in articles His portraits were retouched In the West, rumors about the death of the Soviet secret service One of the books even stated "after a prolonged alcoholic spree", in one of the yards at the Arbat. As before, he didn't touch alcohol. Vera Ivanovna, Bred rabbits in his summer cottage. Opened an apiary Until the ripe old age, skied and skated in winter, He spent much time When alone, he was rereading He was writing them in hope But he didn't have time to finish it. In July of 1990, Ivan Serov close to his summer cottage. Only six people saw Serov off Many years passed since then. Many people heard that Serov But nobody including his relatives In 2012, Vera Vladimirovna, started repair works When the workers broke a secret opening was found in the wall. Serov was afraid that the KBG and concealed them in the wall. Those worn papers were describing All the truth, as Serov saw it, about the difficult events The truth about a man who worked but failed to fight the system.