(enthusiastic music) - If you remember the it was midnight on election night, and it seemed even at that moment, very clear Donald Trump in a bit of a thumpening. Now, part of the disorientation of the Democrats losing and the popular vote, and and the areas around the cities, and the areas around those areas, I guess you'd call it America, was that we had all been told by many of our best prognosticators, (mimics gossip) We ran the results in the She won 50,001. He won 40,099.999 but in this coin flip because the Democrats had a secret weapon in a close election, perhaps - Since joining the race, the Vice President has raised - Call me eyes boggled. See, the Democrats in a 50/50 election had a billion dollars, a war chest to be spent on data analytics, and polling, and consultants, and very clearly texting, A lot of that money went to, &quot;How the (censored) did they just text me? I'm in the tub. I don't even have my phone. It And while of course, maybe just every day would've been the No! The billion dollars went Republicans didn't have, couldn't have, that would put the Democrats over the top. - And the Harris campaign 50,000 volunteers. - With volunteers knocking in Pennsylvania alone. - This is the first time they've ever heard of people a second time or a third time. - You know, if there's (audience laughs) more than someone appearing it's that same (censored) person coming back two or three even though everyone from vacuum salesman to Jehovah's Witnesses know In fact, they've known that for decades. Let's just spend a quarter You know what Democrats Whatever money is left over, send those same people back and just knock again during dinner, And when the homeowner &quot;What the (censored), Scott? I thought we connected.&quot; But the reason why, and I give them some shit but there was a method to - Democracy and freedom are on the ballot. - Our democracy is on the line. - We have to protect democracy. - We have to work even harder to make sure that we defend our democracy. - We don't get to choose when we're asked to defend democracy. We just have to do it, - Noble words. And I'm glad to say, Democrats just for the other side. (laughs) Because when all is said and done, we had a free and fair election in which the Democrats had been prepared for almost every scenario, but one. - The Harris campaign has built probably the most sophisticated, robust, impressive voter protection program in the history of presidential politics. - We have millions in the bank ready with lawyers all over the - Democrats have been planning for four years. Are Democrats ready? You bet they are. - We have county clerks ready to go, secretaries of state ready to go. - So it's all lined up. What We got the lawyers. We got What do we got? So, oh, we got Jimmy, Oh, I thought you were I brought the hate has no homier posters. Nobody brought the voters? It turns out the election was stolen by more people voting for Donald Trump. It's quite a caper. Ocean's 74 million. Yeah! (paper rustling) So now, as many on the left many others rule the past. - Joe Biden should have - There should have been an open primary. - People never got to know Kamala Harris. - They spent too little time - Wildly overestimated the - Chose the wrong VP. - Managed to alienate - Abandoned the working class. - Democrats need a new way - Do that Joe Rogan podcast. - Trump spoke. Trump spoke to the people. Democrats never once mentioned Never once. Yet focus group after focus group said, &quot;You got anything on If not, can you at least stand there and sway to &quot;Ave Maria&quot; for like an hour? Can you at least do that?&quot; But it's a delight to from so many people who were so wrong about what was going to happen. And everyone has their own pet theory, but there's one theory seem to be coalescing around. - They were too woke. - Insisting that people - Too far to the left - You have to say they, - Stop with the virtue signaling. - Step away from woke. - Focus less on who is woke - Social justice issues when your son is in the basement vaping and playing video games (audience laughs) - I feel like that last more about his son. Everybody else had sort but his was just so specific. You really gotta focus on, let's say, a kid in your basement, vaping and just jerking night after night. But point taken. Everyone's talking about from cable news to the op-ed section, and sometimes the op-ed section, - We wanna get to the Maureen Dowd piece, Maureen Dowd's piece for the &quot;Democrats and the Case of - Ooh, that was &quot;Morning Joe&quot; host, Mika Brzezinski, discussing by Maureen Dowd on how to (audience laughs) I guess I'll just have to get unless there's another way to - We're gonna read the entire (audience laughs) - About wokeness? I couldn't even stay woke through that whole (censored) thing. Why don't you read us the Wordle? I only have one problem I just didn't recall seeing any Democrats running on woke shit. These were the commercials - Sharon Brown is working - Mondaire Jones is working - Pat Ryan is restoring - I'm Laura Gillen and of Nassau County. We're 2000 miles from Mexico, but we're feeling the migrant (audience laughs) - In Nassau County? By the way, Suffolk County You want a piece of our strip malls? You're gonna have to go Those are the Democrats! The Democrats. I gave the police more I gave them planes and tanks. I built a moat around the country and filled it with (audience laughs) They didn't talk about pronouns. It was the opposite. - We can't let China steal Wisconsin jobs. - Benefits for illegal immigrants. No way. - Blocking support for White - Standing with law enforcement against defunding the police. - I've owned a gun my whole life. - Let me be clear, I don't - You all know me. I've (audience laughs) - Well, that's just a Come on guys, you know me. (laughs) He's like George Bailey in I'm not the guy who pushes sex, yeah. I'm in your shops every day, every day. Mary, Mary, it's me, George Bailey. I'm not trying to get I'm just wishing I was dead. And don't forget about Kamala Harris. It's not like she was her NPR tote bag. - I have a Glock. - They didn't do the They acted like Republicans They wore camo hats and went (audience laughs) Do you know how dangerous around Cheney's? You have any idea? I thought I had one more Democrats were mostly that was defined for them, based on a couple of months defund the police, Me Too Instagram posts from four years ago. What happened was the country felt like government wasn't working for them. And the Democrats in particular were taking their hard-earned money and giving it people who didn't And so the Democrats got shellacked. I'm sure any robust examination of better policies is very welcome. But I just wanna please assure This is the map in 1984, That's the map. The only state the (audience laughs) Yeah. Everyone thought that's but eight years later, there - Now we all know Trump has mass deportations, tariffs, and finally, building that statue of (audience laughs) That's to scale. The question is, who is and help Trump carry And you know what? The man He's earned the right We owe it to him to hear him out without, you know, nitpicking. - South Dakota governor, to be tapped as the Secretary - I'm sorry, I'm sorry, if I just a sec- Kristie Noem for Homeland Security? Are you (censored) kidding me? She's supposed to get She couldn't even train her dog. (audience laughs) Although- I will say, I guess we who's not making it over the border. (audience reacts) This is our new reality. I mean, this woman has no She's the governor of South Dakota. That isn't even the best Dakota. It goes North, Fanning, Johnson, then the building John then South Dakota. I will say Noem does have experience striking fear in the hearts of terrorists. Wait, I read that wrong. Terriers, fear in the hearts of terriers. Yeah, sorry. Sorry. You know what, I said So who else is on board? I promise, promise, promise, - The former president also turning to a former house member, Lee Zeldin of New York to lead the Environmental - Okay, just to nitpick for a second here. Republican Congressman Lee Zeldin. Now the last I remember, he wasn't a big advocate You know what? You know what? Maybe he has some good ideas. - What are you planning to do at EPA? - We have the ability to to be able to make the United States the artificial intelligence to bring back American We have the opportunity that are forcing businesses (audience laughs) - So the head of the EPA's top priority is protecting the auto industry, boosting artificial intelligence, and boosting business in general. Where is the environment in all of this? (audience applauds) I mean, look at this, look at this. (audience applauding) Does the E in EPA just (audience laughs) I mean, it's pretty cool how is like a battle over a thermostat. Dad comes in and turns it mom turns it back up, over Truth is, when you look at they're kinda all over the place. You've got mainstream as Secretary of State, far right weirdo, Stephen Miller, as Deputy Chief of Staff, Congresswoman, Elise even though she has no I mean, what common thread that would explain why - President Trump risks everything for us. - Leading us in this although wounded and facing danger, he stood up and raised his fist. - He is the toughest man Nobody has endured more than - Nothing, absolutely nothing from standing and fighting - Donald Trump's a style icon. (host mimics getting sick) - A style icon? Steven Miller wants to put kids in cages, but that is perhaps the most But I guess that's the uniting factor, these people are kissing they've got bronzer on their nose. And yes, he puts it on down there. He covers his whole body in it, you know, except for right here, for some reason. But the most important person doesn't have a cabinet position. Elon Musk, world's richest man, and guy who looks like that you'd look at and say, (audience laughs) Now since the election, that Elon's 11 children his full attention. - Elon Musk, who's been basically since election day, he's been seen golfing with Trump and and hanging out there at dinner. He's one of the few people sitting in this makeshift situation room that they built in Mar-a-Lago. - Elon Musk has been weighing in on some of Donald Trump's potential picks, making it clear to the president elect who he believes should have that role. - Ooh, good, good. The world's richest man is run the country. I'm sure by the time Elon's done, his businesses will be unregulated, he'll have billions of and it'll be illegal to point (audience laughs) Don't do it, don't do it. Don't do it. Don't make fun of this. I wanna know, what else, in the Mar-a-Lago - He's also been sitting in many times when he's been with Donald Trump on some of the calls from foreign leaders, including Ukrainian president, - Must happen to be at the and Trump put him on speaker. - (laughs) Oh, poor, poor Zelenskyy. I mean, hasn't Ukraine He's in a bunker, Russian and he's like, &quot;Don't put Elon on. Don't put Elon on. Yes, yes, I did see you jump very high. Yes. Very cool man, very cool. Oh yeah, the hat looked I guess because Elon provides Ukraine with internet through his satellites, this was basically a which means when they Zelenskyy was probably like, &quot;Ah, I hate it when these things Human operator, human operator. So now Elon is by the with no oversight or security - Responding to speculation in the new administration, &quot;I'm happy to be first buddy.&quot; - Oh, you know what? Let's go back to not having a title. First buddy sounds like where we elect a golden which frankly I'd take at this point. (audience cheers) It looks nice. It looks nice. Just keep it away from Kristi Noem. The peaceful transfer of power is one of the most cherished a hollow tradition that to 2016, yada, yada, yada, And today, the current president agreed to set aside differences and make nice for the cameras. - Mr. President elect - Thank you. - Thank you very much. to having a, like we Do everything we can to make what you need, and to talk about some of that today. - That's good. - Thank you very much. And politics is tough and it's, in many cases, not a very nice world, but it is a nice world today, and I appreciate very much a It'll be as smooth as it can get. (audience laughs) - Now that's a man who appreciates a smooth transition of power, as long as it's transitioning towards him. If it's transitioning away from him, there's gonna be some January 6th in. But if it's towards him, smooth. I mean, they did both just out of tradition, it was very cordial, perhaps too cordial. Joe Biden, you spent the whole campaign calling him a fascist threat to democracy. It's a little weird to now be like, &quot;Well, give us a call if you need Toodeloo.&quot; Hey, maybe this respectful is a sign that Donald Trump is maturing. I really think we should give him- (audience reacting) I really think we should, to make some responsible - Breaking news, president-elect Trump has named former is his pick for Director - Okay- That's terrifying, but How about from this point forward, (audience laughs) - Donald Trump has nominated and that is Florida - This is definitely a pick that will raise some - Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's gonna raise some eyebrows. We should have seen it coming. Matt Gaetz as Attorney I mean, not as low as are about to be, but pretty low. Quick question, the Department of Justice isn't within 100 feet of a school, is it? (audience laughs) It almost feels, at this point, like Donald Trump is trolling us. I mean, these picks can't get - Fox News personality, Pete Hegseth, tapped for Defense Secretary. - No, no, no, why do I keep doing this? Stop it. Stop it. Pete Hegseth, the Fox and I mean, the Department of Defense is one of the most complex and the President is choosing its leader the same way I chose &quot;Hey, I saw that toucan on TV. He must know how to make cereal.&quot; (audience laughs) Now, if you're fortunate enough not to spend your life watching Fox News, and you're wondering if Pete Hegseth is one of the few responsible he's not. - Black Lives Matter, as we know it. Can the Black Panther be Wuhan virus, Chinese virus, Look, I got a plate full of burgers and I got a buddy over here, I put a flag inside my jacket, okay? What game are we playing - I think you're gonna - Let me tell you what that is! - No, I don't! - I don't think I've washed - That's Secretary, I don't Now, to be clear, Hegseth he's a combat veteran with Although the combat he's most famous for did occur on a live Fox broadcast. - They're testing their Who's gonna win this I'm putting my money on Clayton. (percussion music) (audience reacting) - Yeah! (laughs) Check this! I love how conservatives are like, &quot;New York is a violent war zone.&quot; Well, time to fling an Yes, Pete Hegseth threw an which is pretty unbelievable. I mean, I'd understand it but drummers. Then again, launching a weapon that accidentally hit a civilian, I mean, why is everyone saying this guy isn't qualified Now you might see this and wonder, what does Hegseth offer the US military? And I'll tell you what, great deals. - You see, one man army loves the country and makes damn good soap. I've used 'em all, and like Gun Smoke smells or Gerka, refined or how about Patriot and the Pine Tar Bar? There's more of 'em too, you each of 'em shaped like The well-groomed militia, join it at grenadesoap.com. - Look, I'm no history this is America's first defense secretary who has previously served And not just any soap, of for the kind of man who's too Is it gay to soap up my I mean, what are these scents, by the way? Gunpowder, bourbon, tobacco. I love getting out of the shower, smelling like I need a shower. (audience laughs) I'm surprised this ad wasn't like, &quot;Do you want to smell Then try Grenade soap But look, Pete's tenure smelling like bourbon while As Secretary of Defense, he has plans to protect us - We only have one military, and if the military goes to fight the wars that needs to fight. Social justice, politically correct, environmental LGBT, not CRT DEI nonsense that divides the force, makes it weaker. I'm straight up just saying we should not have women in combat roles. - That's right, that's right, In Trump's America, if women they're gonna have to get pregnant. Now- Cut back. Talk to the man. Now, you might wonder why Pete is so down on the idea of women It's tough to say, but when you consider that reportedly his first marriage ended because he had an affair and then his second marriage ended because he had another affair then you begin to understand why he's so worried Of course, Pete Hegseth espousing his social and if you're wondering how with all his affairs, it was - In his 2016 book &quot;In the Arena,&quot; Pete Hegseth called for policies preventing divorce of parents with kids. A year later, after his he published a revised version, changing his demands to policies (audience laughs) Fellas, you ever have sex so good, it changes your opinion on divorce laws? Our next Secretary of Defense has. Today the fallout for Attorney General, Matt and guy who's had more needles Now, yesterday, Trump selected and his future employees - Multiple current and left speechless, calling and one saying he is the ever nominated for a position - I think what I'm hearing (audience laughs) Seriously, the least qualified ever. Keep in mind, that includes who once starred in promotional videos for a toilet for well endowed men. And yes, this was a real thing that happened during Trump's first term. You don't remember it, which is okay, because if it's in any consolation, maybe someday we'll forget all this too. But I'll tell you, I'll tell you who's not (audience cheering) I'll tell you who's not Matt Gaetz, AKA, the guy who plays Bob's Big Boy in porn parodies. Gaetz is ready to go. In fact, as soon as he was nominated, he immediately resigned so he could get the ball rolling. He's just that eager to unless, you know, there was, I don't know, some other reason he resigned so quickly. - He's been under investigation by the House Ethics Committee over an allegation that he paid His resignation from the House will effectively end that investigation with that report due to be out Friday. - Wow. What a crafty legal He must be dating a girl (audience laughs) Now call me old fashioned, like a guy who was recently investigated by the Justice Department isn't the best fit to lead But maybe that's coastal elite talk. I assume congressional Republicans are excited for one of their own to be elevated to such a lofty position. Let's hear them gloat to reporters. - I try to talk to a lot of about Matt Gates being nominated the post and they made clear they - I'm having trouble. (indistinct chatter) - We have a confirmation process. - I don't know yet what - Do you think Matt Gaetz is confirmable? - We'll find out, won't we? - Senator Kennedy, what do you think of Matt - Happy Thanksgiving. (audience applauds) - Happy Thanksgiving? Matt Gates has nothing besides him and the turkeys I would say, I like this strategy for avoiding the press though. &quot;Sir, do you have regrets &quot;Happy Arbor Day.&quot; And if you're wondering why does Matt Gaetz's own the answer would actually take some time. It's not just the underage sex allegation, it's also that he routinely He doesn't do any work himself, and his personal quest to so divided his party, a fellow Republican had to be restrained by the mouth from fighting It was the first time in history Congress had to call a face mask penalty. And Gaetz hasn't just against his own leaders, even his social skills gave Take it from Republican Mark Wayne Mullen. - We had all seen the on the House floor that of the girls that he had slept with. He'd brag about how he and chase it with an energy (audience reacts) - First of all, I'm not sure You're going around telling coworkers that you're free basing Viagra? (audience laughs) And you know I had to use an Hit me up top. Also, also, yeah. Super tiny. Yeah, bro. Oh, I could barely get it up. Yeah. Also, for the love of God, Pound some coffee like an Clearly the Justice Department is about to get a hardcore bro makeover. I mean, once Gaetz is in power, you're gonna get to and the (censored) your problem man? (audience laughs) there's not a single thing we've seen from Matt Gaetz's career or character that would make him fit to be the Attorney General Luckily, all it will take to stop him is for his own colleagues, to show the slightest bit of spine. What say you, Mark Wayne Mullen? - Are you gonna vote for Matt Gaetz? - I completely trust President Trump's decision making on this one. - I don't get it. Do you hate Matt Gaetz or not Mark Wayne? You can't have it both ways. Unlike your mom did whether to name you Mark or Wayne. (audience laughs) Come on. There you have it, folks, the Republican submission to Matt Gaetz is a creep who forced and yes, I will be voting for him. Happy Thanksgiving.