By 1945, the days of Japanese conquest in are advancing in the entire theatre. For two years, US Admiral Chester Nimitz's the Americans ever closer to Japan. Only those islands deemed strategically significant simply bypassed. In November 1943, the Americans take Tarawa, 1944, and the Marianas in June. The costly landings at Peleliu in September could become. US commanders selected the tiny island of Only 7.2 kilometers long, and from 0.8 to speck in the vastness of the Pacific Ocean. But since it's located halfway between Tokyo could become a vital support base for B-29 craft. Importantly, Iwo Jima is also part of the soil. The Americans hope its capture will deliver The US Marines' V Amphibious Corps, consisting is assigned the task of capturing the island, All told, 100,000 men and 700 ships will partake to 10 days. Defending Iwo Jima are the 21,000 Japanese by Lt Gen KurIbayashi TadAmichi. KurIbayashi has studied the battle of Peleliu on the beach - or relying on costly banzai and grind them down in attritional warfare Each consists of hundreds of caves, tunnels are to hold to the end. Kuribayashi's "Courageous Battle Vows" The preparatory bombardment of Iwo Jima starts This is much less than the 10 days requested Harry Schmidt. But as the first Marines move onto the 6 landing light. The biggest obstacle is a 4.5-meter high terrace prevents their supporting LVTs from moving Just as bulldozers are brought in to make It's been pre-sighted to bracket the landing heavy casualties. Now, Japanese machineguns open up from Mount point in the island. But the heaviest Japanese fire of all comes landing beaches. Even before the invasion, 4th US Division worried about it: on the extreme right of the right-hand squad battalion, I'd recommend him for a medal (Leckie 21) the beaches, and the Marines begin to threaten Meanwhile, the 28th Marine Regiment moves blockade (1). Colonel Harry Liversedge reports on conditions: Resistance moderate but terrain awful." (Allen 25) but by the end of D-Day, only a third of the The Marines capture Airfield No. 1, but elsewhere is stiffening. In the east, Marines grind up against the of Suribachi and its 70 reinforced concrete Kuribayashi tries to stiffen his men's resolve: as his graveyard, fight until the last and (Rottman 157) February 21st, D+2, brings the Americans a Rain and wind shut down the beaches, while and sink an escort carrier. On the island, the bloody fighting continues. In the west, the flatter terrain allows for progress (2), but against the Quarry US casualties One company of 240 Marines is reduced to just Around 5,300 Marines have been killed or wounded 3rd Marines, is sent in ahead of schedule. Things did not improve as the rain turning that clung to boots and fouled weapons. The 28th Marines reports: the day hampered our operations considerably. The rain mixed with volcanic dust caused stoppages them to single shot..." (Allen 68) The 28th now begins to scale Suribachi, while main defensive belt (4). Kurbayashi has turned Iwo Jima into a complex hardpoints of all shapes and sizes. Some are simple snipers' nests made from are large reinforced blockhouses that seem The larger bunkers are well stocked with supplies Japanese soldier Tsuuji Akikusa recalls: Headquarters bunker... was the largest bunker would be able to hold out for about three There were about 800 people in the bunker. There were no fewer than 500 drums filled water." (Akikusa p. 41) can move around the battlefield undetected increase in frequency with each passing day. As a result, after dark American forces fire island in light. The tunnels also allow the 800-man Japanese just as the 28th begins its final assault After meeting light resistance on the summit, to signal its capture - and in doing so they of the 20th century. But the capture of Suribachi does not mean The next day, US forces assault Airfield No. the use of tanks. So it's up to American infantrymen armed to lead the assault (5). The Japanese stubbornly hold on at the north advances in the west (6). Although the 4th Marines clear the Quarry enemy position yet. On D+6, the Marines in the east enter the centred on three locations: Hill 382, Turkey Defenders in these positions can mutually and dug-in tanks. American progress slows, with advances measured "touchdowns." The 4th Marines continue to struggle with the other divisions also come up against their On February 27th, the Americans consolidate still being measured in 'touchdowns'. The Japanese are stubbornly defending their assaults them from point blank range, sometimes American tankers also ram or churn their treads Japanese soldier Okoshi Harunori recalls his "Even if you pretended to die and fell over, would drive over you... Some of the soldiers hid in foxholes to avoid found a foxhole, they would roll around on If they got you like that you were doomed (Shuzaihan pp.132-3) On February 28th, which US command originally victory still seems a distant prospect. With the east becoming a stalemate, Schmidt towards the coast, to split the Japanese defenders' With the aid of a massive artillery and air seize the remains of Airfield No. 2 (8). By the next day, American forces are threatening west, the 5th Marines now clash against Nishi In the east, Hill 382 is partially captured Amphitheater continue to hold out. As American casualties and exhaustion mount, units - in some cases privates lead their But just as US forces are making progress Japanese defenders on Hills 362B (11) and summits heavily contested in brutal hand-to-hand By the following day, D+12, a stalemate sets Marine casualties have been extremely high The Japanese have lost 14,000, almost all In the west the Americans capture Nishi and (14). As the battle continues, the Marines also "[Japanese] Snipers dressed in Marine uniforms also, it was discovered that the enemy was (Allen 153) In anticipation of future offensives, Schmidt attacks to straighten the line. Fresh American replacements arrive, but many Airfield No. 1 sees some unusual activity an emergency landing. The next day's American attack is preceded guns fire over 22,500 shells in the first However, their impact and the advance in general Fierce Japanese resistance limits the Marines the whole island (15). It's become clear the Japanese are now well attacks - an artillery barrage followed So 3rd Divison's General Graves Erskine Graves' troops won't advance straight facing the neighboring 4th Division. The Americans try the new method for the first as by the end of the day they take Hill 362C This advance started to create a pocket of which continues to hold out. At midnight of the same day, senior Japanese orders and leads a 1,500-man banzai attack He hopes to pierce the US lines, destroy equipment, flag. But the Marines' fire decimates his men, or explosive vests, from range. The Americans suffer few losses. The wasteful banzai charge marks the end of Over the next three days, the marines bypass (18) and finally reduce the Meatgrinder (19). In the north, a US patrol reaches the sea Kuribayashi knows the battle is coming to no intention of surrendering: heavy losses. I am very sorry that I have let the enemy am taking comfort in giving him heavy damages." (Allen 161) On D+20, Japanese resistance only exists in the eastern coast, and part of the northwest Kuribayashi now falls back to a gorge, later (21). The Marines are exhausted and many are incapacitated fatigue, today known as PTSD. So they call on the Japanese to surrender, will be treated well and suicidal resistance The Americans also distribute a translated Hideo: that things could be this way if I hadn't At first I was embarrassed to have been taken officers... had the same experience I felt In our conversations we agreed that it is work for a greater Japan in the future than (Sandberg 114) impact. The Americans continue to advance and eliminate Gorge. Although US authorities declare Iwo Jima secure out for 9 more days in a seemingly impregnable US artillery couldn't be used for fear of grenades, and demolition explosives take on On March 23rd, Kuribayashi issued his final nearby Chichi Jima: from Iwo ." (Allen 217) It's possible that he commits suicide, or that become more common in the final days. On March 26, around 200-300 Japanese troops Airfield No. 2, attacking mostly airmen and This charge, which US troops quickly destroy, It's now D+35. Marine casualties are around 23,000, including dead and wounded. 19,000 of the 21,000 Japanese troops on the Only 216 surrender during the battle, and until they are mopped up by US troops. Although the later battle of Okinawa will Jima is still the deadliest single battle US Pacific Campaign where American casualties Iwo Jima is also a battle with a controversial The US Army and Navy will later claim the the price paid. But for its intended practical purposes it Through the last months of the war, 2,251 saving the lives of 24,000 US airmen. The US strategy of island hopping ever closer of the Japanese home islands in the final The next US target is the Ryukyu Islands, the largest. US planners hope that Okinawa will also provide The Japanese know that Okinawa is strategically in addition to seven airbases on smaller islands Okinawa's terrain also favors the defense deep ravines and gullies, while the somewhat caves. There's also a large civilian population in the south. But these people are culturally different They speak the Luchuan language, and many as inferior. To ensure the loyalty of the isolated locals, propaganda to instil fear of the Americans The fear of a potential American landing is the island repeatedly from September 1944. By early 1945, much of the capital city of So the Americans are planning to invade Okinawa, and the landscape for maximum resistance. Both sides view the coming battle as a battle closely watch the performance of their troops home islands. The defense of Okinawa is led by the Japanese Ushijima. There are around 100,000 troops, but their The 62nd and 24th Divisions are veterans of combat experience. They're supported by the understrength 44th To make up for losses, the Japanese also mobilize and Okinawan conscripts. 17-20,000 civilians teenagers, some as young as 14, are organized The Japanese don't have much in the way artillery and mortars. The Allies bring far more to the battlefield 100,000 soldiers and 88,000 Marines are ready 1130 other vessels, along with army and navy US planners led by Admiral Raymond A. Spruance, coast of the island for the landings. The plan is for US troops to fight their way airfields. Then, they would move to the narrowest parts before preparing for pushes north and south. 17-year-old Japanese ammo carrier Yagi Seiei "The U.S. fleet out there was just huge. The scale of the flotilla meant that the result (Shimpo 44) On March 29, US forces take the nearby Kerama beaches with around 100,000 shells, rockets, The invasion was about to begin, and US planners 85% casualties in the first assault waves. At 8:30AM on April 1, 1945 two US marine and But, as they come ashore, there's only sporadic No machine guns, no Japanese troops. Marine Eugene Sledge, a veteran of the bloody "Images of the maelstrom at Peleliu had there was practically no opposition to the When we overcame our astonishment, everybody The release of the tension was unforgettable." (Sledge 205) Of the 50,000 US troops who landed, only 55 The light US losses are part of the Japanese General Ushijima decides not to contest the would wipe out his men. Instead, the Japanese plan to allow the Americans grinding them away in attritional battles Light Japanese forces will conduct harassment defend a series of lines back to the army Once the Americans got bogged down, Imperial attack against the US fleet. Despite Tokyo's promises, Colonel Hiromichi "From the very start of the Okinawa battle Our fighting men made cynical and sarcastic never come to Okinawa because Tsuji Town [Naha's raids last October..." (Yahara 46) American troops advance for several days against forces. They take the airfields April 2, reach the in the south. The island is now split in two, but as the Japanese resistance begins to stiffen. Japanese units and Okinawa irregulars begin especially the forested Motobu Peninsula. On April 4th, US troops reach dug-in Japanese them at the Kakuza, Nishibaru and Tombstone Narrow passages hinder the US approach, but casualties from artillery. To inflict 450 casualties on the 96th US Infantry 5,700 men. Japanese morale does get a boost on April reaches the front, but the desperate fighting The Japanese are so desperate they revert "Colonel Kaya, famous for his ingenuity, the great fourteenth-century warrior, and on them." (Yahara 53) Despite these measures, the Americans pierce Japanese defenses along Hacksaw Ridge. Exhausted US army divisions are now being Major-General Isamu Cho notices the US loss against Colonel Yahara's advice. Cho's new counterattack on May 4 is supported but it still fails. From now on Yahara's strategy of attrition "[Cho] even said jokingly to me, "Hey, hara-kiri? Is this a good time?" He not only had assumed responsibility for hope of success in any further operations." (Yahara 42) As the battle bogs down on land, another fierce air force attempts to wipe out the US fleet. From April 6th, Japanese kamikaze pilots attack The Japanese Air Force turns to the suicide Philippines. Kamikaze attacks are more accurate and damaging Japanese pilots return in any case. The first raid of 355 kamikazes is just the Overall, about 1,800 kamikazes attack US ships Many are shot down, but swarming tactics increase Holmes aboard the destroyer Hadley writes "This was the granddaddy of them all. We didn't have time to count, but the records As good as our gunners were, there was no (Sloan 225/226) By the end of the battle, kamikazes sink 26 9,700 US casualties - the highest losses Kamikazes are not the only threat to American On April 6, the Japanese battleship Yamato, It only has enough fuel for a one-way trip, on the island and use its massive guns in it halfway to Okinawa, and American bombers of her crew. Back on deadlocked Okinawa, US forces regroup positions yet. To make matters worse, it rains almost incessantly. US troops move to outflank the Japanese strongpoint hold on. Fierce fighting takes place around Sugar Loaf troops tackle Conical Hill in the east. Japanese defenders, often on reverse slopes, troops. As the weather worsens, the US advance slows The rain bothers both sides, but is particularly Sledge describes the desolate approach to "It was the most ghastly corner of hell As far as I could see, an area that previously stream meandering through it was a muddy, Every crater was half full of water, and many The bodies lay pathetically just as they had rusting weapons still in hand." (Sledge 272) The short ranges of the battles favor Japanese In response, US troops use flamethrower tanks, and collapse caves. In late May, the Japanese eastern flank collapses The Japanese attempt an airborne attack on The Japanese are in danger of being surrounded, By this point, roughly 62,500 Japanese and As the Japanese Army withdraws, it takes civilians to delay the US pursuit. Okinawa's civilians play a unique role and island. During the battle, the Japanese partially to flee the combat areas. Many civilians, however, choose to remain others as laborers, nurses, and sex slaves Because the Japanese make such intense use lives rather than face the expected American At least 30 groups and families killed themselves Up to 700 civilians kill themselves on Kerama US soldier Corporal Dan Lawler recalls Okinawan "We gave them all some candy, but they still of it first. You could tell they didn't trust us as far (Sloan 305) Civilian fears of US troops are compounded around civilians. Their "shoot-first-ask-questions-later" hiding in caves, and shoot some others as The Japanese army even uses civilians like and conduct suicide attacks: "We had no idea where the Japanese army They had simply abandoned our student group... We were simply given hand grenades and told of the Americans' eyes..." (Shimpo 69) By early June, the Japanese situation is desperate. About 30,000 troops remain, many of them wounded. The survivors retreat to the Kiyan Peninsula On June 4, Marines conduct a shore-to-shore on Oroku. With exhaustion and cases of combat fatigue the Japanese to surrender in vain. Close quarters fighting erupts around Kunishi on the 18th - they manage to kill Tenth But the battle is now all but decided. By June 21, US tanks are converging on the Ushijima orders a suicide charge out of the he commits ritual suicide. Many other Japanese officers also resort to Finally, in the early hours of June 23, Ushijima Cho writes a poem before his death: "The devil foe tightly grips our southwest His aircraft fill the sky, his ships control Bravely we fought for ninety days inside a We have used up our withered lives, (Yahara 154) Other than a few isolated holdouts, the Battle The battle is one of the deadliest for the 4,600 army soldiers and 4,900 sailors are Of the 100,000 Japanese troops, 66,000 are Estimates on civilian deaths vary, but some indigenous population. Despite the huge casualties, the Japanese the war. It grinds down US resources and morale, with exhausted. The 82-day battle also gives a glimpse of Japanese home islands, with a mobilized civilian with prepared positions and suicidal fanaticism. US planners apply the so-called 'Okinawa invasion of Japan. They expected up to one million US killed At the same time, President Harry Truman receives be willing to surrender, and that powerful Historians still debate the full consequences bloody toll of the Okinawa operation plays weapons barely a month later. The bombs could be used as an alternative Islands. Since 1943, the US military had been drawing take place in two phases: Allied troops would the Tokyo plain in March 1946. The Japanese Ketsu-go defense plan was not losses on the Americans so Japan could get The Americans knew the Japanese were preparing, troops in Japan - with 625,000 in Kyushu US planners used this intelligence about Japanese from Iwo Jima and Okinawa to estimate potential By August 1945 they expected between 250,000 It is often suggested the expectation of casualties to an invasion - including the atomic bombs. But recent research suggests that the casualty Planners had no reliable methodology to use, quality of Japanese units and unlike at Iwo larger, enabling units to avoid fire, manoeuvre One more recent estimate by historian Rufus the battle for Japan's Home Islands - more than 1945 estimations. Regardless, some historians maintain it was that mattered. The atomic bombs, tested successfully in July a potential slaughter right at the end of On receiving news of the atomic bomb test "I'll say that we'll end the war a year be killed!" (Frank 242) events to impact the Japanese. In early August, the Soviet Union declared Defeat for Japan was now coming from multiple Few events of the Second World War have triggered 1945. Historians have long argued whether the atomic most important in causing the Japanese to The conventional view, supported by orthodox post-war American perspective - that the surrender. But other historians have argued a different Union in the Pacific War on August 9, 1945 triggered the Japanese surrender and arguably This view is often called revisionist since argument. Evolving arguments are a normal part of historians' are differences within the orthodox and revisionist are a bit simplified to help us get to the First, let's take a step back and establish On May 8th, 1945 Nazi Germany unconditionally In July, the victors met at the Potsdam Conference Near the top of the agenda was the ongoing neutral. At Potsdam, Soviet leader Joseph Stalin confirmed that he would join the war against Japan in plus South Sakhalin and the Kuril islands. He also revealed the Japanese had approached By 1945, it was clear they wanted to use the on better terms. Now remember, testing vague peace ideas with as being willing to surrender. All the while Japan's military was preparing serious peace efforts by politicians. Even Prime Minster Kantaro Suzuki, who favoured Meanwhile at Potsdam, US President Harry Truman 16: "Operated on this morning. Diagnosis not yet completed but results seem (Hasegawa 136) This message meant that the first atomic weapons On July 24th, Truman casually informed Stalin force." Stalin, equally casually, suggested "good On July 26, the Allies issued the Potsdam They called on Japan to surrender unconditionally The Japanese government was divided on how Emperor Hirohito was head of state, but the Big Six cabinet ministers . Three ministers while the other three, all military, wanted In the end, the cabinet simply ignored it, At 8.15am on August 6th, a B-29 bomber dropped It exploded 600 metres above the city, causing centigrade. Nearly everyone within 1km was killed instantly, burned. High school student Yamaoka Michiko recalled "There was no sound. I felt something strong. It was terribly intense. I felt colors. It wasn't heat. You can't really say it was yellow, and I thought I would be the only one to die. I said to myself, "Goodbye, Mom."" (Cook 384/385) The bomb destroyed 70,000 of Hiroshima's people. The White House released a statement: "It was to spare the Japanese people from 26 was issued at Potsdam. Their leaders promptly rejected that ultimatum. If they do not now accept our terms they may of which has never been seen on this earth." (Hasegawa 181) So the bomb had been dropped and Hiroshima At the same time, Japan's leaders were discussing The initial Japanese response to the American Military minsters blocked a planned cabinet meet with Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav When the Japanese ambassador met Molotov on instead handed him a declaration of war. The next day, 1.5 million Soviet troops invaded Kwantung Army. The Japanese cabinet finally met but couldn't to surrender on the condition the Emperor demanded no occupation, voluntary disarmament war crime trials. While they discussed, the second atomic bomb The Emperor himself now intervened with an with one condition: his own retention as monarch. The Japanese sent these terms to the Americans but didn't accept either. They simply repeated that the Japanese people On August 15, after a badly organized military that Japan would surrender unconditionally. Fighting in Manchuria stopped on August 16, 2, 1945. Truman was also under public pressure to end not letting Japan off lightly. The bombs ticked both these boxes. After the bombings, opinion polls showed 85 and 23 percent wanted to drop more. But the atomic bombs were not guaranteed to say Truman still wanted Soviet help. Revisionist historians on the other hand, worst case scenario. For revisionists the atomic bombings had more defeating Japan: "The dropping of the atomic bombs was not World War as the first major operation of (Maddox/Asada 28) They argue that although Truman wanted Soviet mind. Revisionists highlight that Stalin never received they suggest Truman wanted an insurance policy Stalin provided this by confirming Operation Once Truman had reliable data from the bomb Truman drastically shifted his position to offensive could begin. This led the revisionists to conclude that Churchill saw a chance to limit Soviet influence islands and influence in northern China they Some in the US government worried that the agreement, especially on the question of free Meanwhile, any deal involving China still Truman himself wrote his opinion in his memoirs: "I was not willing to let Russia reap the in which she had had no part." (Hasegawa 164) Revisionists also suggest that far from offering Proclamation was deliberately designed to the bombs. Several members of the US delegation, like surrender demand to guarantee the emperor, Staffs and Byrnes. But when the US dropped the Hiroshima bomb, the Soviets, it actually spurred them on. Stalin knew about the bomb program thanks Apparently outraged, he brought forward the So the orthodox argument that the bombs were by revisionists who argued it was primarily A minority of revisionists have even argued grim scientific curiosity or to justify the for this is weaker. That said, orthodox and revisionist schools why exactly did Japan surrender? Orthodox historians suggest that Japan would kill as many Allied troops as possible had The bombs though weakened Japanese belief might end the war on better terms. According to this line of thought, Japanese bombed into submission, especially if the the first two - maybe they would even drop In reality, Truman planned to scale back bombings target - but the Japanese didn't know Their fears, orthodox historians claim, were since Japanese scientists had theorized but Japan's leaders also considered the atomic Orthodox historians have pointed to evidence advisor: "Now that things have come to this impasse, No matter what happens to my safety, we should have another tragedy like this." (Maddox/Asada 33) Orthodox historians also say the Soviet attack to capitulate. Japanese leaders knew a Soviet offensive was One piece of evidence on this point is a statement "... [although] we have long worried about with this new [atomic] weapon was beyond our (Maddox/Asada 50) In the orthodox argument, the Soviet attack threat to the home islands or the Ketsu-go In any case, Japan expected to lose Manchuria So the orthodox position is that Japan surrendered and potential for more of the same. The revisionist approach though, sees it very They suggest the impact of the bombs has been of the Soviet invasion has been minimized. Firstly, revisionists argue the destruction from the impact of conventional US bombing. On March 9, a US raid on Tokyo killed 84,000 Hiroshima and more than the immediate death In any case most Japanese cities were already invented. Historian Robert Pape put it this way: "If one defines the "hostage" as major then the hostage was nearly dead before the (Pape 166) After the war, a US Strategic Bombing Survey as 210 conventional bomber sorties. In August 1945, XXI Bomber Command was flying Revisionists claim this reduced the shock already expected mass death from more conventional The Japanese military didn't really react an atomic weapon had been used at all. That's why they said they had more important on August 8. According to the revisionists, the atomic reinforced the Japanese plan to defend the In fact, Japanese generals reasoned atomic The most important reason Japan abandoned eyes, was the Soviet declaration of war. The atomic bombs created confusion at the of the worst-case scenario. Once the Soviets declared war, all hope for Although somewhat anticipated, revisionists than the bomb. One piece of evidence for this is General "Since Tokyo was not directly affected by not felt... In comparison, the Soviet entry into the war it gave us all the more severe shock and alarm the vast Red Army forces in Europe were now (Pape 187/188) Kawabe is a prime example of how isolated - in the previous section of this video, position. Tokyo also worried the Soviet involvement - which might end the imperial dynasty for Revisionists argue that this is what convinced For revisionist historians, the opinions of important. They were the strongest faction within the But after the Soviet invasion, revisionists - although they still debated its exact terms. The senior officers accepted Hirohito's full-scale military coup. Revisionists also claim that Hirohito was he didn't do anything to stop the deaths his real priority was saving his family's or communist revolution. So the orthodox thinking is that the bombs revisionists argue it was the Soviet intervention. All these discussions have led historians Japan to surrender a different way, without One of the most debated 'what ifs' is before a US invasion took place. Revisionists have floated the possibility in the Potsdam Proclamation, the Japanese Even the US War Department Operation Division "The primary intention in issuing the proclamation avoid the heavy casualties implied in a fight It is almost universally accepted that the terms will hinge lies in the question of the Therefore, from the military point of view what we intend to do with regard to the Emperor. " (Hasegawa 147) Revisionists maintain that the US failure bombs, probably delayed the end of the war. They also raise other possibilities that might the bombs, like keeping up the naval blockade Some even think that a Soviet invasion of stop to the war as well. As you can imagine, orthodox historians have They say if the US guaranteed the emperor, a sign of weak resolve and kept them fighting. Important government figures in Japan gave before August despite the already devastating Historian Richard Frank is unequivocal: "In the face of this evidence, it is fantasy, war was at hand before the use of the atomic (Frank 239) Orthodox arguments also point to the high starvation blockade, or a Soviet invasion lives than the bombs did even without a US Japanese occupation. An additional argument is that the bombs actually Chief cabinet secretary Hisatsune Sakomizu's this: "The atomic bomb was a golden opportunity There were those who said that the Japanese It was in science that Japan was defeated, by surrendering." (Maddox/Asada 53) The orthodox versus revisionist argument is too: there is a lack of fully reliable primary or diaries written at the time are incomplete Postwar memoirs are also problematic, since in a good light in the new environment of Evidence obtained from postwar US interrogations Aside from sources, the whole debate relies unit was responsible for important decision-making. In reality, such complex decisions are the attitudes, institutions, and personalities Did the US drop the atomic bombs to avoid in Asia? Did Japan surrender because of the bombs or Did the bombs ultimately save lives or could dropped? Even today, almost 80 years later, the debates just as heated and explosive as ever. The Soviet declaration of war against Japan, surrender, was only possible because Nazi [From Operation Dragoon] In early 1945, the Germany and the Red Army was gearing up for The Battle of the Rhineland would be the last of Berlin the last one in the East. Millions of Allied soldiers stood at the ready the last German reserves would have to defend. If you are curious about these two battles, that together run for more than 8 hours. In Rhineland 45 we cover the Battle for the until the Allied crossing of the Rhine that landing of the entire war. In 16 Days in Berlin we document the entire Both documentary series were filmed on original Forgotten Weapons or David Willey from the War in an uncompromising way that wouldn't So where can you watch 16 Days in Berlin and On Nebula, a streaming service we built together On Nebula we don't have to worry about the viewers there support us directly simply by ad-free and usually uploaded earlier than And that's not all, apart from watching the Battle of Britain series from Real Engineering, where you can learn useful skills directly In our newest class, I take you through the video and give a glimpse behind the scenes documentary. If you sign up at nebula.tv/realtimehistory support our channel at the same time. For just $30 you can watch Nebula originals, YouTube, other Nebula creators and also Nebula And if you are really want to support us and can get the Nebula lifetime membership - it documentaries we couldn't produce on YouTube, even more platforms and it supports us at As usual you can find all our sources for If you are watching this on Patreon or Nebula, do this without you. I'm Jesse Alexander and this is a production that wonders what communist manga would look