Hey everyone, Kevin here. Today I want to show you So, what is Power Pivot? Well, it allows you to and in this video today, I'm going to make this of Power Pivot before, maybe you've never used how you can start taking advantage of it today. included sample files in the description. I so feel free to follow along. So, you might be but what's the difference between Power Pivot? even more powerful. You can analyze data across you're locked into just one table of data. quantities of data. We're going to start off by in, we'll create some calculations, we'll create with pivot tables, pivot charts, and we'll even jump on the computer and let's start analyzing. I want to show you how you can even get Power We just have to make sure that we turn it on. To corner and click on the file menu. Within file, Once you click on options, this opens up a prompt Over here on the left-hand side, you'll see Right here, there's a section called inactive list, we'll see Power Pivot right here. It's Over on the right-hand side, we see that it's there's this drop-down list next to manage, COM add-ins. Because Power Pivot is a com This opens up yet another prompt and within here Right now, they're all turned off, and I can So, here I'll click on Microsoft Power Pivot for Now that we've turned on the Power Pivot and over on the far right-hand side, you'll see a this exposes all of the different Power Pivot this. But before we start doing that, I want to the data that we're going to be working three different sample files today. One of associated with those customers, and then we includes all of the customer information for see the customer name. There's a whole bunch of Don't worry, this is all made-up information, and then over on the right-hand side, there The orders sheet contains the bulk of the ID who placed an order. We also see the order ID, and also the date of the order. And lastly, here you'll find all the different cookie types along with the revenue per cookie, and also the our profit margins, keep in mind it takes a lot of now back in Microsoft Excel in my blank workbook, first step is to create a data model. Whoa, what Well, it's not really that complicated. A data so we just looked at three sample sheets that all using all of that data that we just looked at, and between the data on all of those different sheets, but to get started, within Power Pivot, let's manage. This now opens up the core Power Pivot blank white screen. We need to bring some of our in an Excel sheet, and you can bring in data from we see this section called get external data and for example, I could get data from a database. here from other sources. Chances are if you have Now I have my data in an Excel file, so right the option to select an Excel file. You could but let's click on this and then click on a friendly name for the connection, and it's Right down below, I can select an Excel file path, if you're following along, go to wherever you navigate to the file. This opens up my file customer information. I'll click on customers here I see a check box that says Now if you remember when we looked at the data, so let's check this box. There and we could test the connection, but we don't Right here, I can see that it found the source so this looks great. I could click on preview data looks like. This is the exact data I was Next, let's click on finish. Here I see that five great, so let's click on close. I've brought I said that the power of Power Pivot is that and so I want to bring in the rest of my data. So click on from other sources again, and the Excel and click on Excel file. Right here, I'll navigate all of the orders, so let's click on orders and row contains the column headers, so let's check table. We don't need a preview because I know it's Here we see now that it successfully imported the on close. Here now you'll see that it successfully and down in the bottom left-hand corner, you We have all of the customer information, and Next, I want to show you how we can get the but instead of going through and selecting can bring it in if it were a ready part of type spreadsheet open and here I can see the I'm just going to copy this table and I'll bring this Power Pivot. So right here I have this table a little bit better. Now, let's say you already You can very easily add that to your data model. up within the Power Pivot ribbon, I see this Here now you can see that it added all of the down here I have an additional tab. Now it brought that descriptive, so I'll double click on this done typing that in, we now have successfully One of the benefits of using Power Pivot is not can also define relationships between your tables, customer sheet, you'll see that I have all of Company and they all have a customer ID. Now if orders are all associated with these customers, relationships between this data. So, I want to Similarly, here we look at the product I see the product name or the cookie the associated revenue and also cost. So, I So, I have a few different relationships. To define these relationships, let's go up to the side, there's an option for diagram view. Let's and right now it all appears in these rectangles. so I could see all of the different fields within Now, once again, I want to define relationships and here you'll see in customers, I have customer ID, so this data is related. So, here I and drag over to customer ID over here. You'll see there is a connection between these two different shows me the different fields that I related to also Customer ID over in orders. With this line, there's a 1 and over here there's an asterisk. relationship, so let's take an individual so that's why you have a 1 here and an asterisk. orders table, and as we looked at earlier, we saw It has a different name here, but it's the let's say someone orders a chocolate chip cookie. chip cookie, so here I'll click on this value, and cookie type. We want to relate these two different a one-to-many relationship. So, for cookie type different orders. So once again, for one cookie Now let's say that maybe I made a connection, and here, and I could press the delete key and then I did it correctly, so there's no need to but just in case you make a mistake, and return to the previous state. Now that I've let's go back to the data view. Back on the Here if I click into the order sheet, I want to What was the cost and what was the total profit? Now here you'll notice that I don't information for these different cookies within here you'll see that for each cookie, I know and because we defined these relationships, I can So, why don't we run through an example to see columns just so it's a little bit easier to see. well, I take the revenue and then I'll subtract So, first let's add a column here called I also want to add a cost column. Let's click I also want to add another column called profit, I'll type in profit. To calculate the revenue, table and I'm going to multiply it by the units and when I type in equals, you'll see it appear an Excel formula, and I want to pull in the I'm going to type in related, so this will return done a VLOOKUP or an XLOOKUP before, it's kind of and this shows me all of the related information. I get access to all of these different fields. And a field called revenue per cookie. I'll select Once I close the parentheses, this is going to Next, I want to multiply it by the units sold, so and then I'll type in units sold. Here when from the orders table, so I'll click on that Here now you'll see that it automatically one of these orders, so that's pretty cool how other tables and then calculate this value. the exact same thing with the cost, and it's Here I'll enter the equals sign and here again here I want to pull in the cost per cookie from value. I'll close the parentheses and here I'll I can also just click on it over here and Once I'm all done, I'll hit the enter key. Here across all of these different orders. and this is fairly easy to do now. I'll insert revenue, and here you'll see that so I could select that column, and then I'll and here you see that it also finds the sheet and then hit enter. So, check that out. I now have at the Kevin Cookie Company, and I don't know if I keep telling you that Kevin Cookie Company good profitability here. Now so far, we've so we've added these different columns and we've But what if we want to find out, well, how many or what is the average profit per customer? We let's go to the top corner and let's close out to our main spreadsheet. Right up here under Let's click on this right here and let's add a new here and then we'll jump back into Power Pivot in Let's click on this. This opens up a prompt and here I could pick the table that I want to the customer table, and I think that works fine. and measure 1's not that descriptive, so let's number of customers. I want to know how many I could also type in a description, but I so no need for a description here. Right down already has an equal sign and I want to count or Just like in Excel, I can use similar distinct and here you see I have a few different When I click on it, it tells me that it counts Now, if you remember in my customer sheet, each so I could get a distinct count of all of count and then next I can choose one of my field values and I want to get a distinct count of and then let's close the parentheses, and here it's working fine. Now a count of customers is a I don't need any decimal places, and I've now added my first measure, and to see that Here let's click on manage up above. I'm now back sheet. Let's jump back over to the one called and when I click on customers, at the Here you see total numbers and then dot dot so let's expand this column width. Here I'll so here you can see the output of my measure. When I click on this down below, here I can the measure name and then I also see my formula. directly on this sheet. So right down below, I can and right here let me type in an equal's sign. I my orders. So, I'll enter the equals sign and then formulas and functions in Excel. Here I'll select So right here, I'm going to go through the field for profit. So, right down here I see then let's close the parentheses. Next, I'll hit this amount of profit. So, if I click Now measure 1's not that descriptive, so let me profit. Once I type in total profit, I could and it's not really formatted that well, so I here I'll format it with a dollar sign, or now. Here now you'll see that we had about Next, I want to add one more measure, and for that I created. I want to know the average I'll enter an equal's sign, and once again, I average profit, why don't we take the, first off, and here this brings up the measure that we and then I'm going to divide it by the total and here we see total number of customers, so I that item and then let's hit enter. So here down down here, and once again, it's simply called change this to average profit per customer. Next, and once again, let's format it. I'll go up here can see that on average we make about $543,000 Now that we have some measures and let's close Power Pivot for now. Next, I and it will be really useful to use a pivot let's go up to insert in the top left-hand corner, to insert a pivot table. Let's click on this drop just from a table or range. We want to use this model is all of this data that we brought in and Right here, this opens up a prompt where I could want to put it on a new worksheet. Let's click on and I haven't yet selected any fields, so I need alive, but before we do that, I want to call out If we look over on the right-hand side at the it's connecting all of this data together in the if you just create a standard pivot table, you can I've brought in multiple tables of data and the table. Let's say I want to see my customers and has placed. It's pretty easy. Here I'll click on I can see all my customer information, and I'll and drag it down to rows, so over here, you'll see we have 5 customers at the Kevin Cookie Company. over in the pivot table fields area. Down below, many orders each customer has placed. So, here I values. Now right now, it's just summing up all of I can click on this little drop down and I'm I can choose how I want to summarize the value to count and click on OK, so just like that now, I So, here I can see that Acme Bites has but the neat thing here is remember that the but because I defined those relationships, I was able to pull in the orders, and then that analyze this data and also get insights from this a moment ago we created all of these different table. So, let's say I want to see how much profit so over here on the right-hand side, I can expand called total profit. Right here, I'll click on here too, I can very quickly see how much profit not only has Acme Bytes ordered the most, but I've make sure I take really good care of this customer Now Acme Bites has quite a bit of profit, and some to be, so maybe I want to add some KPIs around Right up on top on the ribbon, once and over here there's an option for KPIs. Let's can define a KPI or a key performance indicator. how we're doing with that customer, so with some I can choose the KPI base field, and here I have Now I want to look at the total profit as a KPI, choose a measure and I could choose one of these, So, let's say that maybe my targets, let's say in profit, so I'll select that, and then right what's considered yellow, and what's considered have about 300,000, so maybe I'll move this up and maybe we need to work with our sales team to customer is green, maybe we look here and maybe Down below, I can choose an icon style. I could what these different colors mean, but for now This has now added another column to my pivot Here I see 0, 1, and -1. Well, let's go back a new icon added with this traffic light symbol. for now and then I'll re-add them. So, here now I these different customers. I could also click on for each one of these and I can see how each so right here with Tres Delicious, our profit's our sales team to see if they could push a With our KPIs now in place, we've just been but sometimes you want to just visualize data have the pivot table selected, let's go up to the we can also insert a pivot chart. Let's click and maybe I want to see with a pie chart how much over here I'll select pie chart and the Now, right over here, I don't so I'll simply drag that out. I and here very quickly, you see that I took I was able to create a pivot table from it I can visualize this data and maybe I want to sort click over here. Let's right click, I'll go down right here in a visual way, you can see how much Foods makes up, and once again, Tres Delicious, Now just to show you the true power of what you to pivot table analyze and I'm going to insert in all the different items that I can slice the customers and the orders, but what if I want to I can click on all and here now I see cookie type. into the data model. I just brought in a table. select the cookie type and then I'll click on OK, so right now I see the total profit across if I want to know for chocolate chip? Here I can updates the table and it also automatically that Acme Bytes is also the most profitable for Fortune cookies, I actually Wholesome Foods has so right here I could just click through this and it automatically updates my chart. So, this is and also to gather insights from your data. tremendous power of Power Pivot. You can bring in and then you can visualize the data in tables Now data on its own isn't really that able to extract insights from that data and Power hopefully you enjoyed this video. If you did, like this in the future, make sure to hit that cover any other topics on this channel, leave I had for you today. I hope you enjoyed, and