Decluttering your life and choosing to own less, Take it from me, when I first started my journey, a lot. I even contemplated the idea of giving up But that was only until I You see, sometimes the best approach to overcome are struggling. That way it becomes easier to So today, I'm sharing eight of the most common And I can talk about these in confidence, because, well some of them are also Reason number one: Safety and security. Sometimes we struggle to own less because and there are a few different reasons for this. Maybe you've invested so much of your that the thought of decluttering them makes you And to be honest this was somewhat true I identified so much of who I was with that I clung to and therefore protected who I Or maybe the thought of decluttering makes I call this the scarcity mindset because even when you don't need or use them, A sense of knowing that you'll never go You see, regardless of which example resonates stuff will place a burden on your life, but when there is more to life than stuff and things and Remember owning less, is not But you should get rid of add value to your life, or is used enough Reason number two: Guilt and obligation. Growing up my dad had a life lesson or a metaphor one right out of his playbook and put my own Guilt will take you further than you want to go, keep you longer than you want to stay, You see, sometimes we struggle to let go of so we then feel obligated to keep it. Now, this guilt can stem or the simple fact that we spent If either of these are true for you, then how do Something you should remember is that gifts or congratulations. So when receiving a appreciating the intentions behind After that, what you decided to do with it is up to you. And if you decide to get rid because that gift already served its purpose On the other hand, if you're just because you spent your hard-earned money on The money is gone and you're not going to get back what you originally spent on So instead of focusing on how much you previously that item will cost you if you decided to Things you can't get back once they're otherwise that item will continue to Reason number three: Wardrobe shortcomings. Now I'm not talking about having a shortage the last thing you're worried about. Many of much even, way too many pieces and that's Here's an exercise I'd like for you to individual clothing pieces you own, but let by my definition, is an item that A) It's a clothing piece that you hardly Or B) It's something you genuinely struggle greatly with pairing it with multiple outfits that you can wear many You see, it's common to have a but lack a cohesive wardrobe. And if this is this was me. I had a closet full of brand new and And because of this, I struggled to let go because part of me, that didn't really know how to build if I did declutter I'd just go out and buy a However, I figured out a way to First I finally told myself that Secondly, I agreed to not buy anything new, until I felt confident and comfortable wearing, but the need to own more than I need. And this is Now really quick because I have been getting asked So if you're looking for a minimalist everyday them because they're simple and easy to wear there's a link down in the description Reason number four: Fantasy self syndrome. Question for you. How many items do that are the result of your fantasy self? Well, let me back up for a and why are so many of us Your fantasy self is a highly idealized but who you want others to perceive you as being. So when I ask you how many items do that are the result of your fantasy self? Ask yourself who are you wanting to be and who Here's an example. Maybe you have an overwhelming amount of kitchen gadgets you're not using as much as At the time of purchase, you were telling cooking gourmet meals and throw holiday can see how polished and But in reality, you're not cooking and you're not actually using any In fact, you probably still have the instructions See regardless of what that thing is, holding on image is the worst thing you can do. then I challenge you to Because trying to be someone or I promise you'll find more joy in being yourself Reason number five: "Just in case." Now let's keep it real. How many Do you know? I mean we all have them. How many? That's a different story. You see, just in case items is a big reason to these things we don't need but keep just in we might need them later and then regret Now it's easy to talk ourselves into With full transparency, my wife and I were still have from our wedding the other mid-sentence telling her something along And then I paused. I thought We don't need this and I doubt there will See take it from me. Just in case have a few of them. But how do and actually start getting rid of Well, the simplest approach is to be realistic just in case scenarios that might happen. And then definitely helped me and I'm sure will help you It's also important to remember that come up where you could use a just-in-case forget you had it, or are looking Reason number six: Prioritizing organizing. Now maybe you've thought to yourself that if storage container, or little buckets and drawers If so, you're not alone. This was my thought process for the longest time and I even reorganizing my furniture in hopes that that But guess what, it didn't work. See it's organize more or better, and that will Organizing is not the answer. Carefully organized clutter is still clutter. It you are at Tetris and making a lot of stuff fit it's clutter. So if you want to own and start prioritizing your needs so Reason number seven: Past connections. Here's some food for thought for you. which is blocking your future. Let me your present which is blocking your future. Sometimes letting go of things we but not as much today can be difficult. Think about an old hobby of yours or items from about their baby clothes or the school projects Whatever it is, sometimes we struggle to declutter items from the past because it feels like Now personally I've learned from so far that the only way to overcome So take a moment and acknowledge how Take as long as it takes you to process the only way that eventually allows you Remember letting go of the past makes room and create new memories that Reason number eight: Sentimental items. I'm not going to lie to you, That's the nature of the game. But ways to overcome this hurdle if we plan Now there are many different ways we can items and I highlighted ten solid ones in a I highly encourage you to watch and listen to that the number one reason you're struggling But first, keep growing, keep Peace!