Peace be to you! a Muslim lady called Fatimah who was inflicted healed after a short prayer by a Christian Christian shall be defined as &quot;a person who of Truth who dwells inside the soul of the In accordance with the Principle of John 16:15, who co-owns every word of His Father YHWH. time based on Malachi 3:6, as Elohim said as mentioned in John 16:15, have co-existed In John 16:15, Lord Jesus said: on this account I have said to you that of will show you.&quot; (AEV) speak for another person without his or her the law. in order to conceal her true identity. I was born as Fatimah daughter of (Imam) Muhammad. My father was an Indian and my mother is a Indian culture as well as the Malay culture. and brought up in Malaysia and she came to up Singapore but his family comes from Kadinalu is known as a priesthood family like in the one tribe known as the Levites who take care My family comes from a priesthood so my great-grandfather was an Imam. My father was an Imam and today two brothers and two sisters. I am the eldest And as a young girl growing up, I was also family comes in that line. So I used to teach the Quran, anything particular to the religion. in a year for the Ramadan month, my family to forty-five days in year. So it's a continuous Today I am known in fact as a staunch and and fanatic Muslim. Because that's what I I was. So it doesn't matter where I was. in a day and the, my family was known to be ways. So I thank God that I do come from that went through as a Muslim is helping me a lot As a Christian and sometimes I think Muslims because many things that Muslims do are the and this is the things that God wants us to are doing it. the disciplines over there and today I thank it helps me to understand what fact, all that I learned as a Muslim being So there is so much that the Muslims can teach they do not. You know tell you what to do what it means to love God. accepts the Lord (Jesus) then you become a as a Muslim you don't get converted. you're a Muslim. It's accepted you are a Muslim. doubt at about this God. About this Allah that. about 32 or 33 (years of age). I've just finished helping my sisters and my brothers finished the eldest sister I was, to my siblings, to And my youngest brother who is 13 years younger 13 years younger than me, has finished his here, the Cambridge School Certificate. conquer the world! responsibilities and now, I was ready to go thinking about this, I even have you know, I can travel. I love to travel but never have out of Singapore. Not even to Malaysia till Because I just stayed in Singapore all the plans, I was struck down with the disease, it; one was that I was diagnosed with what my bones at a very drastic rate. so much so was like, as though, just being washed out And I was wobbling and my joints were all Then the other thing that I had, was diagnosed attacked all the ligaments in all my joints thing that I had, was Leukemia of the blood. what in the world is happening! just taken it and lied down and died because is, given to you, you just accept it. You God, being a Muslim, was he is a God and he You know and we, as human beings we cannot So there is a big gulf between us and God. pray. You can, you know stay but you have You can't come to him. in Islam. that I had the fighting spirit because when reduced to this, I was like, no way because along even in my young adulthood to, you know what you call, I could not even get married So I was like, I am free now and I'm going was something that couldn't accept So though and knowing all the things, I was like, my I say, how dare you do this to me? to live. And you take away my life and you one of my friends, you know, the person that I used to be a teacher in a college and the, who used to be there, as a teacher. Every the teachers' lounge. She would be seated, here. there was a competition between her God and And she's an Anglican (Christian) and you want to compete with She will come in, she before she sits down at the sitting lounge and I know that she's for a minute with her eyes closed be saying, I don't know what she says. will sit down and then was like my God can do anything. There's nothing my There's no impossibility with my God. I got You know, because there is no sentence, nothing where the word God is not brought in. So for her, her God was her everything. But someone, you know, who is very vocal. She gentle way. But you see, for me I was a Muslim God, you know, so and I was dressed as a Muslim. my face. But in those days you can't. see the Muslims here. you know, everything covered up. And I go and the only men that can see me uncovered &amp; my father that's it. But other than that understanding without making it very clear. my God to myself. side. college. would not talk about is, with my finger whenever I talk to You know that kind of thing. So when I was sentence of death, she was the one that I I've left the college. It's already two years college and I don't know where to contact intelligent woman that I think I am, I should look for her. her phone or something. But it didn't occur I just, I wish I could speak to her. I just and the phone rang, in my house and my brother your friend is on the line. I was like, I'm I said okay I'll just take the phone 2 years spoken anything and I don't know okay and then she comes on a phone! thinking about you and she said yeah, Then I said, that unusual and I said &quot;Can over because I need to talk to you?&quot; You know, need to. She said: Yeah, sure come on, over and then I She's staying near the airport. a taxi, probably take you about an hour to and I get to her house and she, years, she still knows I like to take Take a seat the tea. and I was like, will you please sit down. I'm not interested in your tea. I got to talk She said: Yeah, go ahead, talk to me. and I'm telling her within 3 months the doctors said that I'm dying, I'm going to turn out and you know, she is still going on, with She said Yeah. yeah. She said: Yeah, I heard it. Then I said; Eh, But with God, can your God do? And she says: Yeah, He can, there's no problem. He will work it out. down &amp; pray. And then I said. pray for me? Can you pray for want me to pray for you? here. She said yeah, okay. And I'm seated, I wear see but my, my eyesight put on my glasses. She with her classic way this I can tell you exact words she She says: &quot;Father, your daughter has come to know who you are, in every way, and you know like, you finish? She says, yeah a headache, you know. prayer so that you have to talk to God a lot, okay! She didn't tell me anything about Jesus. She any God. Anything, nothing okay. That was And I was like, nothing happen. No thunder, nothing, nothing, And I'm like, and then she said okay drink And I'm having my tea. What in the world did very disappointed Discouraged. You know because I come all the thinking that you know something is going okay and then after that she says: I'm very So not, you know, I was time with me. I got dismissed So, this time I didn't take any cab. I didn't not knowing what to do, okay, I was really know what you're supposed to say. I see someone who's dying. long it took me. and went off to sleep. The next morning I so I went off early in the morning to the So, from 8 o'clock right up to 12:30 (pm) scan, bone scan, test they sent me from one tests and I finally Can you go out and have lunch, we have to do more tests on you. I said No, we just need to do some back? I said okay something and I came back all over the same test, everything that was was re-done on me again, in the afternoon me into a small room. 6 or 7 doctors in their room done. All my they put it on the, was done on you weeks ago. This was done And this was done in the afternoon. And I I'm tired okay and I'm like, class, right now. any much attention to it. been there. I said: Yeah, so what? I looked at the first one, it looked quite and the one that taken last week was terrible. my, the bone has become like spikes, walk, or to function because I was on my neck, right all the way down. I was in a very terrible (state). I was like, then was taken in the morning. in the afternoon, me? to talk to you.&quot; &quot;Are you seeing any other doctors? Are you They did not give me any medication in this looking at me. all and painkillers. to blurt out to give, what other doctors? Suddenly, it hit me. She prayed for me yesterday. so this God is really God. And I'm I dashed corridor. And I'm talking and those days we don't have cell phones. In those days you have to go to the public So I dashed to the phone, I put in a coin I didn't have any coin. There was a guy standing aside. I said: I got to make an urgent call. from him in fact, I made the call to call this friend and I I'm healed. I was screaming at the top of in the corridor. Everybody there, can hear and she said: Yeah, I know. I was like, Hmm, God can do anything... You got to talk to me about. now I'm busy too. people, I didn't go back to that room they probably walked out from there and I think, I looked there was no more swelling in me. nothing. when I came in there. the word we use, born-again? received healing. He is God! I am okay.&quot; till today. that hospital. I was excited that I am healed And I would like to tell you that the became a Christian. make any appointments with my friend after testing this God. I looked at my mother she and she had a swollen ankle. And I didn't my heart if you're really God, That's all I said. Next morning, I woke up She's okay she's healed. Then I started going Then my uncle. Then my brother. Each one, for the next 10 days, I tested this God, 10 days, God, if you have healed for the 10 days. the Bible. I had a Bible that was given to I can't remember and usually I throw when we moved house, and I remember that I had this Bible. the King James Version. I'm brought up in the British Way cup of tea. So friends within two weeks, I started from Genesis, I'll read and come Then I'll go to: Songs of Solomon. Songs of I was like, good God this is a Bible. What Is this really a Bible? Oh yeah, it says is you know, I'm an Indian. Okay though I don't I didn't grow up speaking the language. I'm to the language, was really very Then, so, I would skip the ones that I'm not don't want to read. I just go over; I will New Testament. I wanted to know who is this I really wanted to know who He is. So I would I read the Gospel, I read. Then after that and I'd talk to Him you're really Great. You reveal yourself to us. That kind of thing. And came, a time, any more. when it was about by 3 weeks now, I got up I, about 12:30 or 1:00 am, I went to the kitchen I have learned, I read the Bible so well. where, each one the story is, and every thing. of Acts Chapter 9 and I opened it up and I and I was telling God I said: Look this guy killed so many of your people. But you were You know, you came and you helped him that he became other epistles for you. you. But you see all I know is Allah. All I know it's about it is not he who's god. You're God. So now help me to see you the way, this guy saw you! cannot come with you! with Him! turned it, standing on, there was a kitchen today, as I look out I thank God for the sun appreciate the brightness. But it was nothing The whole place was just, it's such a glorious place, but where are you? I saw the Light. I'm seeing midst of the Light. place I don't know where it is you?&quot; As I'm thinking. where are you? I hear this voice that came through the window, and you're hearing But that voice that came through was much &quot;In the beginning was the Word and the Word it may not mean anything to you but it meant Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living God is, to receive Him as God because we, Muslims &quot;The Son of God&quot; is a Title conferred by YHWH If God has a Son, then He must have a wife. a mere, human being. He can't be God. me insight. He gave me a revelation was God and the Word is God.&quot; that understanding that I needed that He's and I still stood there, I said: Where are Okay, I wasn't satisfied with just the Light. I wanted Him I wanted to see Him. And He stood in front of me. He was, even if you My friends, my English language is perfect! I don't speak any other language more than to describe how He looks like. so glowing, so beautiful, I walked this Earth, I've been to so many can't find anybody who looks like Him, okay. and I was captivated by His Eyes! at that time, I've never heard anyone say they love me, not even anyone. Because I, whatever I did and obligation, not love. But this GOD was consumed by the Love that was flowing from was completely drawn into those Eyes Love in His arms, holding me and He brought me into the past to help me to know once and that He is God, and there is no one other, and what He brought me, was when I was a twelve-year-old I found myself as a twelve-year-old. I was and I thought there was no other way and I I was standing by a river that was swollen And I was going to throw myself over that and I remembered that day, there were two and pulled me back. It was in the night and and I ran all the way home and He said, as scenario, He was telling me: I was there with I am here with you now, when I was 28 years old. the highest building. tall buildings, you know committing suicide by Twenty-eight years old, I was with another and I didn't know how to handle it. Again and again that time, there was a hand that GOD said again: I was there with you then, And my friends, there was it, that settled that He is GOD, and I went down on my knees anything. pouring down my face. you.&quot; &quot;I and You&quot;. That was my decision that I made And two weeks later, on, I suffered I've never suffered before. to become a Christian. I didn't dare tell If there is any one person that I have loved is my mum and she was the one that I didn't But next morning when she got up after that commitment to GOD she got up in the morning &quot;You have become a Christian.&quot; I didn't tell because she can see from my face and I have There was something about me that told her about being a Christian. means a Catholic, not a Protestant, the Protestants as Christians. know how to explain. she took a knife from the, was one the biggest knife. We have and she took out the knife, she put it on you kill me, then you walk out that door.&quot; She said &quot;If you don't then I have to&quot;. And at me. She's a woman was only four and half But that day she became such a strong person, became like a tiger! live any more.&quot; And in the struggle, she was cut, I was cut And all I could think of, I didn't know what screaming my heart out. But I remembered what &quot;Call on His Name and He will come.&quot; And I &quot;JESUS, I need You&quot;. And as I said &quot;JESUS!&quot; That was the day that I had to pack my things Because of, probably my age or the things In one day, in a moment, I lost my family, I lost my friends. I lost my job. Islam Singapura) in Singapore. For the next two I cannot live any where. because my, every particular about me was from the government in Singapore, and I had to go and fight back, to get back my identity. as I struggle, you know, I'm not a crying because whatever pain that was, I always thought I worked it out. But, when I met GOD for the I did nothing but cry every day. Cry because break the self-individuality that I had become. that I had become. I was a very nice person there was so much a bitterness and hatred inside of me which I didn't know that I had So GOD had to take that all away. For the like a mother-hen over her chick. Every day what is going to happen. very young But in order to protect the family's valor to kill me. of the first one, to his home and GOD showed in a vision when They prepared food with poison and I asked GOD said &quot;Eat&quot;. I said okay I will eat. And seeing me eat that food and I was going, my fingers, Another time my mother invited you know, one and exorcise this &quot;devil&quot; that were supposed And man walked in, he doesn't even walked and he sees someone standing by my side in that the &quot;Power&quot; (Holy Spirit) that is with And my friends, the greatest joy that I have not that I know this GOD. I thank GOD that But the greatest joy I have is that I can with Him in prayers. And this GOD is not a just communicates in a monologue, is a dialogue. and He's delighted whenever we are with Him. when my &quot;call&quot; came I didn't know what I was because by then I was already thirty-plus I'm old, GOD. GOD, I'm old, maybe you should call somebody But GOD called me and I came into ministry. a full-time ministry immediately and I thank GOD placed in my life who helped me, encouraged And all those things that I said that I lost, many homes that I cause my home. call many brothers and sisters world They are there who know me and who have encouraged So today I take the message to a world that time that He healed me. I mean that was the In 1993 I was asked to go for another surgery a hysterectomy. Again I told GOD, &quot;GOD, you If this your will, I will go for it. But if You take care of it and a couple of days I He healed me. In the year 2000, I was leading team in Israel and at that time when I left I had cancer in both my breasts and I was, they had no choice but to just cut off my you know, trip I will come back and we'll When I was in Israel, I was in one of the, Wailing Wall&quot; and as I was facing that temple, he said wall and I hotel room and I said &quot;GOD, a foreigner. I'm not a Jew, Father. So Father, as Solomon said I'm a foreigner, and I'm believing in you GOD, He put me to sleep the whole day He did His surgery on me. So I can share many many testimonies what But many that He's still doing today. He's have much to thank Him for. is a &quot;Thanksgiving Day&quot; 18-20. to. was in our thinking of all and I wanted to end with this. &quot;Do not get drunk on wine which instead be filled with the Spirit, speak to you are doing today. and you're praying, what you call, music in your heart to the to God the Father for everything, I was thinking, of giving thanks much is great, it's fantastic and Thomas wanted, I mean I was a Thomas and As I walk with Him and I wanted signs. I wanted to believe Him. &quot;Look finished His sentence by saying seeing me God today have that faith. God for so many only the great things He does? get up in the morning? me. Thank God for that, the beautiful day that I thank God for the food that I'm able to I thank God for the work that I have. I thank I thank God for the family they God has given I thank God for everything, for small who He is. but I thank Him for the bad times that comes my way that I grow have those bad times never be able to learn me how to go world has to give because He is the one courage, He gives us the boldness. here today with you I and I don't think I am being here divinely arranged because it is He (JESUS) faith because it is He who loves us with an And what I have to share may not be just for thing you want to take with you to Has GOD done great things? He has and one I first came into india as a missionary greatest one day we were having crusades. And I remember one the team has left, was the last day of crusade. asked to speak for that day and the next day what you call, go on, giving out leaflets. Crusades. in one of the parsonages. there, just talking to God. her lady. She's about 16 or 17 years old to where I am in her arms but that baby has got the skull were spilling out She knocks on my door with her baby in her arms. as I shared with you a long prayer. The baby is dead and she's standing and she &quot;This evening you said your God can do anything She has, she's being married to a guy who at three or four months old and thrown it She's standing before me, your GOD, you said the crusade that evening and she heard my and she says: Your GOD you said you can do even dare take that baby I say God, she has come not for me. you she's come trusting in you Father, believes in you, though she doesn't know you out and this hand, the hand was so beautiful skull. place before my very eyes and this was in You see, the test is not whether we know Him He is really GOD and when we say that He, Do we really believe with all that we are? India, my cry &quot;God, India for Jesus and Jesus I hereby invoke the Fair Use policy under Copyright Law that permits limited use of from the rights holders, for any of these report, scholarship and criticism. face-to-face &amp; heard the voice of God &amp; the Word was with God; &amp; the Word is God.&quot; Disbelief from her soul In other words, Jesus Christ converted Fatimah Holy Spirit. there is only one Spirit for the Jews and whether slaves or free and all of us have That one Spirit is the Holy Spirit which Lord on Matt 3:11. For John baptized with water; after not many days.&quot; even as He has spoken in the Gospel, &quot;The When Lord Jesus said: I and My Father are through Him ye may know and believe, Father. &quot; the Son, and the Spirit of the Son inside means they are united as one Spirit. 1Cor is one Spirit.&quot; (KJV) in the Flesh, who is GOD over all; and ever; Amen.&quot; 9:5, no man can say &quot;Jesus Christ is the Lord, Basically, there is no Catholic and no Protestant &quot;Jesus Christ is the Lord&quot;, he or she has Holy has not removed the &quot;free will&quot; from the Christians doctrines of the church concerned. the Church is effective for the peace of mind the sins have been forgiven. But Fatimah was when no man proclaimed her sins were forgiven John 20:21-23. And Jesus said to them; Peace I also send you. And as He said these things, Receive ye the Holy Spirit. If ye shall remit him; they will be retained.&quot; the Holy Spirit as Lord Jesus Christ breathed authority of remission of sins was proclaimed. as she has the Holy Spirit inside of her East cannot exorcise Him from her. If member of Fatimah requested for exorcism? of Fatimah as He who is in her is greater ye children, are of God; and ye have in you, than he who is in the world. the mouth of Jesus, the son of Mary as to the Children of Israel that &quot;I am the Quran 61:6 says: And remember, Jesus, the I am the messenger of ALLAH (sent) to you, and giving Glad Tidings of a Messenger to Yusuf Ali Translation. the Holy Bible as to where is the verse Prophet of God? Lord Jesus Christ said: I disputed and cursed Jesus Christ and God the Jesus Christ the aforesaid title as &quot;The Son Jinns did not curse Jesus Christ regarding by Name and Title. The Legion of jinns cried do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the Most torment me not. For He said unto him, Come 5:7-8. Devil, a murderer and liar. Jinns would call the Most High God&quot; as they know the scripture Psalms 82:6 regarding the appointed judges When the jinn speak to Muhammad who did not may speak lies to this ignorant man! as the father of lies which God did not put &quot;Ye are of your father will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, is no truth in him. When he speaks a lie, the father of it. to Muhammad, who overheard from the Jews and by God besides angels and mankind, as falsely true identity and origin. Jinns are fallen but they serve Satan as their lord. others. Quran 72:1 is a proof that jinns can of the Jews and of the Christians without Quran. that a company of Jinns listened (to the Qur'an). Recital! &quot; a company of Jinns (quietly) listening to thereof, they said, &quot;Listen in silence!&quot; When to their people, to warn (them of their sins). heard a Book revealed after Moses, confirming Truth and to a Straight Path.&quot; the Gospel of Jesus from a Book revealed So these jinns have overheard the Gospel and about the Gospel and the Torah. is the Lord&quot;, as they serve Satan as their Paul by the principle of John 16:15 and 1Cor 12:3 Apostle Paul wrote: I therefore by the Spirit of YHWH, who says that &quot;Jesus is the LORD&quot;, except by the Holy Spirit.&quot; Jesus Christ is the Lord, Muslims are hereby Christ is the Lord&quot;. Paul will be proven to itself by Name and then declare Muslims believe that there are good jinns why there is not a single jinn who can say are except he or she can say Jesus Christ is the Since Muhammad cannot say Jesus Christ is recitation, he must be possessed by a powerful Muhammad is a false prophet speaking against an unclean spirit. and not of God since the Law of God cannot God&quot; vide John 10:34-36. because the Holy Spirit of God teaches that when she speaks for God. during prayer and prophesying 1 Cor 11:4-5 &quot;Every man who prays or prophesies and every woman who prays or prophesies with she is on a level with her whose head is shaven. for the woman's sake, cause (reason) ought the woman to have on of the Angels.&quot; so that the Christian faith can be strengthened to the people who have not known the historical Jesus Christ and not the non-historical Jesus in the Quran. Amen!