There's a lot more to Paris than just the Eiffel roundup of things to do in the City of Light, of exploration. In case you're new here, hi, this channel is all about practical travel that sounds like your kind of thing. And be sure includes all the activities mentioned in this Now, before we get into a big list of sights I think every visitor needs to do. The first is a thing to do in Paris and it's something I have that flows through the heart of Paris with many of its scenic banks. On a single walk here, you'll the Louvre, Pont Alexandre and even the Eiffel Tower, a go-to spot for picnics and hangouts, so it's a your walk for sunset and I promise you'll fall touristy activities one that I think is definitely of the best ways to enjoy Paris's most famous tour which is prone to traffic. Luckily there are and basic to more extravagant affairs featuring I can highly recommend a sightseeing cruise if the main sights and must-dos by approximate area, starting or arrondissements. We'll start with a big one and that's to museum. Housed, of course, in a former royal palace of art including ultra-famous pieces like the guides will advise, is often considered one in the world. Still, it's a very beautiful and if you're an art lover and have a few hours to here, so come at off-peak periods and don't force art because this place can be very overwhelming. only one of many, many museums in Paris, so really, the most famous. On this side of the river, there's Europe's largest modern art museum; the National around the city like the Musee d'Orsay across the impressionist and post-impressionist masterpieces Beaux-Arts railway station. So be sure to choose an Another must-see nearby are the elegant Jardin des Tuileries: lawns, statues and fountains. One special highlight you can marvel at Monet's Water Lilies displayed immerse visitors in his famous masterpieces. A Palais Royale, an elegant 17th-century palace the now very famous Colonnes de Buren art installation; opportunities. While in this area you're close to recommend, which is a wander through the city's were popular shopping venues in the 18th and elaborate embellishments. Today there's about perusal, though some are definitely more elaborate Galerie Vivienne, Galerie Vero-Dodat, Passage des Panoramas and Passage Jouffroy, but honestly it's super fun to just wander and snoop around the ones you see. Another street famous Rue Montorgueil, a beautiful pedestrianized street atmosphere and gourmet delights, namely special the oldest patisserie in Paris: La Maison Stohrer. If you plan on recommend, this could be a fun place to grab all the Marais, a historically well-to-do neighborhood galleries and medieval streets that feel like here include Place des Vosges, the oldest planned square in now a popular museum; as well as Paris's oldest city. On the outskirts of the Marais is the Hotel de Ville; its intricately decorated facade adorned with here, you can continue your explorations around middle of the Seine River that is often considered 2,000 years ago that a Celtic tribe called the to say, this island is home to a number of iconic Cathedral, known for its awe-inspiring Gothic design also Sainte-Chapelle, another gorgeous Gothic chapel well as the Conciergerie, which is a gorgeous palace- Antoinette was held before her execution; and oldest in the city. Needless to say, there are many a walk around is a must. Once again, I've saved all you can find in the written version of this guide. you have internet access during your trip. On that eSIM provider that provides instant and affordable Including France, of course, which means you'd have never used one: eSIM stands for embedded SIM, which 100% digitally to connect you with your telecom soon as you land without the need to switch your that work across multiple countries, which is what easy, I just used the Airalo app to buy and activate was ready to go as soon as I landed. Again, for a a full tutorial for setup you can check out my And scan this QR code to easily download the app, eSIM. Thanks again to Airalo for sponsoring this week's to do in arrondissements 5 to 7. First is a visit to one of the best-known literary institutions in bookshop is best known for its prominence as a Ernest Hemingway and F Scott Fitzgerald, as well its cozy confines over the years in exchange for hours and writing a short one-page autobiography it's said that the shop has hosted over 30,000 even today. 5 minutes away there's another, far checking out: the Abbey Bookshop, which happens this side of the river is, of course, a wander historic student district is one of the oldest streets, lively cafes and vibrant atmosphere, with a Latin as a spoken language here back in the Middle Latin Quarter, the most famous of which is no that is absolutely breathtaking on the inside. be a church, today the Pantheon is best known for here, like Marie Curie, Voltaire, Rousseau and Victor Michel Fountain, as well as the Sorbonne building and, as well, including the Musee de Cluny, one of the world's artifacts; as well as the Museum of Natural History, this area, history nerds can also check out the to the 1st Century. Or for something a bit more de Paris, a stunning architectural masterpiece inspired lush gardens and serene courtyards. In terms beautiful option for picnics and general strolling: in the heart of Paris with tree-and-flower lined sailboats and the elegant Luxembourg Palace which neighborhood to explore just north of here literary cafes, galleries and plenty of shopping and Les Deux Magots are more tourist hubs than rogue pretty, just like the rest of the neighborhood, nosy perusal. Honestly, the best way to enjoy this up the atmosphere while dreamily walking around. amount of time learning about Napoleon in history his tomb which is fittingly, disproportionately the iconic gold-topped Dome des Invalides, which was actually Tower turned up. On that note, of course, a highlight of Paris: the Eiffel Tower. At the time of its it was actually the tallest man-made structure was dethroned by the Chrysler Building. While there's no doubt that the Eiffel Tower today is see it. If you're short on time, I'd say there's no After all, the most iconic views of Paris contain there feel weirdly incomplete. Instead, remember of different areas, the most popular being from streets and bridges offering unique vantage points as afraid to explore and branch out. A classic view Passy and Bir Hakeim stations. Now, it's time to move with the classic Arc de Triomphe, a monumental triumphal Arch that commemorates France's military victories. This is probably one of the most famous sites in the concerned. And while almost everyone comes here up to the top, which I think is a shame because the is a tunnel that takes you over to the arch and as you'll see many tourists doing. From here, you boulevards: the Champs-Elysees, forever immortalized honest, this isn't the best street to shop or eat but it is still an iconic stop and worth doing if you'll reach one of the largest public squares in as its centerpiece and two dreamy decorative seeing. Not so beautiful, however, is its history; many notable figures during the French Revolution, just a nice spot for photos. From here, you're most beautiful attractions in Paris: the Palais yes, the real-life lair of the Phantom of masterpiece of 19th-century architecture and while do need to step inside for the full impact chandeliers and sumptuous gilded decor all around. cultural landmark, I can highly recommend booking stunning. Close by you'll also find some of Galeries Lafayette and Printemps. Even if you're not is worth it if, even just to admire their ornate Finally, let's move on to more things to do in are, of course, so many but I'll just highlight needs to visit Montmartre, once a village filled with That said, touristy as it may be these days, it's Paris. Highlights include the iconic Sacre-Coeur Basilica artist-filled Place du Tertre, the adorable wall of Honestly, though, the best thing to do here is get intensely busy, there are still some cool sites escape the crowds, especially if you come early, I'm it. Next, just north of the 18th you'll find the largest and oldest flea markets in the world, selling everything from retro clothing and unique souvenirs. Definitely a really cool spot great area worth exploring: Canal Saint-Martin. This shops and restaurants making it a go-to spot for or evening. If you're looking for a lively place the tourist center, this is a great pick. Close to squares: Place de la Bastille, built on the site of the storming played a key role in the early days of do here apart from admire the Colonne de Juillet monument but it may still be of interest for history buffs. Over in the 11th you'll also find the Atelier their immersive multimedia installations, housed cool points. Today, it's home to floor to ceiling with music and dynamic animations. I went amazing. Now out in the 14th you'll find the Paris, a spooky attraction perfect for those who macabre underground labyrinth is said to contain spooky solution for the increasingly overcrowded portion of these tunnels are open to the public, bones, if that's your kind of thing. Now, sticking the Tour Montparnasse: a tower often referred to as the ugliest building in Paris. This tower is actually Paris's tallest skyscraper and therefore offers sweeping though, to be honest, there's tons of great views of my way to come here. In terms of beautiful parks in the 19th: the Parc des Buttes-Chaumont, a whimsical parkland featuring dramatic cliffs, cascading waterfalls and picturesque bridges. Definitely a great place Finally, out in the 20th is the historic countless notable figures from the worlds of Wild, Jim Morrison and Edith Piaf. Sure, visiting but if you have the time this is definitely a put on your list. Now, speaking of lists, for as well as a map with all these activities, of this guide. Thank you so much for