Vsauce! Kevin here, and I game, that requires no skill, has no catch or trick, and can lead to infinite wealth. it. Why? How is it possible that an incredibly easy everyone to react with a massive yawn? To play this game, we'll turn to the most friend of Vsauce2, Dwight Schrute. You walk starts at $2. If the coin flip results in it lands on FACT, you play another round and you keep playing and the prize keeps doubling so on and so on... forever. But as soon as you get a FALSE, you are done a FALSE in the third round, then your prize 14, you'd walk away with $16,384. No matter than $2. If things go really well... then Now that you know the potential payoffs, how game? $3? What about $20, $100? The winnings much is a chance at infinite wealth worth We can determine the precise answer, but first which is the sum of all its possible outcomes the point at which we choose to play a game we decide to take out insurance on our house less than our likely reward, we should play. we're likely to get out of playing, then Here's the expected value of Schrute. You've got a 50/50 chance of losing on your with $2. With a probability of 1/2 and a payoff is $1. The probability of winning two rounds be $4. That's another $1 in expected value. 1/8 -- times $8. Another dollar. 1/16 * 16... For n rounds, the expected ( 1/2)^n * the payoff of 2^n -- so no matter the value of n, the result will be 1. The 1 + 1... forever. Because each round adds might be. The expected value is infinite. And there's our paradox. Because, you'd money they have to play this game. Mathematically, less than infinity to play. No matter what getting the deal of a lifetime: the reward that. Who would empty their bank account to chance they walk away with $4 or less? It's confusing because expected value is, you'll play a game. Look, if I offered you and lost $1 on tails, your expected value outcomes: (50% chance * +$5) + (50% chance the time you'll lose $1. In the long run, So paying anything under $2 to play that game is less than your expected value, it's a And since the expected value of the Schrute infinite money to play it should also be a The thing that's so interesting about this humans. Enter: Prospect Theory. An element choices based on the value of wins and losses The reason people don't want to empty their gains is that the expected marginal utility those mathematical gains increase forever. A few hundred years ago. In 1738, Daniel Bernoulli of a New Theory on the Measurement of Risk&quot; in the Commentaries of the Imperial Academy we now call the St. Petersburg Paradox was value of the St. Petersburg game; those are was a lot more to it. Bernoulli introduced -- what was, until the 20th century, called mathematical expectation. The main point of Bernoulli's resolution to you, is relative to an individual's wealth less to you as you accumulate it. So, as an example, not only would winning broke than it would to, say, Tony Stark, but the research and development at Stark Industries. And there's also a limit on a player's arguing that a high relative risk is enough with infinite expected value. Iron Man can can't. And value itself is subjective. If I won 1,000 be THRILLED. If someone allergic to peanuts So. Okay, okay. Given all this, how much can How badly do you want to play? Bernoulli used points that factored in not only the expected the player and its expected utility. A millionaire to flip Schrutes, while someone with only a total of $2 of wealth should, according from a friend to pay $3.35. Ultimately, everyone has their own price that comfort with risk, their preferences, how could be doing with their money, their own And the thing is... this game can't even that a game of potentially infinite gain requires infinite loss. And no one is cool with that. So if the important elements are variable The St. Petersburg Paradox reminds us that might convince a robot that it's a good coin flips, but you know deep down that's Because you aren't an expected value calculation. are a part of you and help you live your life. Fact. And as always, thanks for watching.