See the line where the sky meets the sea? It calls me, And no one knows how far it goes! Aloha, I'm Joseph Hoffman, and today we're learning how to play the chorus of &quot;How Far I'll Go&quot; from Disney's &quot;Moana.&quot; Please note that this is my preparatory level version of &quot;How Far I'll Go.&quot; Preparatory level is perfect for anyone who is still pretty new to piano, like if you've been playing for six months or less. If you're more experienced at the piano, you want to check out my level 1 or level 3 tutorial for this song. Now let's come to the piano to get started. Okay, first let's find our position. We're going to take right hand finger one, which is your thumb, and place it here on F just to the left of these three black keys, and the other fingers will just take a white key each. Your left-hand finger one will be on C just to the left of the two black keys, so this will be your position. Now the chorus begins with this pattern of three notes, and I'll use finger numbers to help you know which keys to play, and so you've got finger 1 2 3 4 5, and it starts off with this pattern of three notes stepping up. 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3, and that makes &quot;see the line&quot; &quot;where the sky meets the sea.&quot; Now you try that. Start with your finger one and try to play and sing those notes. Good, now let's try together. Ready, start with finger one, go. See the line where the sky meets the sea. Good. Next we have It calls me and that uses finger one then five two. It calls me. Now you try. Good, now let's put those two parts together, so we have See the line where the sky meets the sea? It calls me. Now press pause and try that on your own, then press play when you're ready to go on. Good, now we're going to need your left hand for this next part, for &quot;and no one knows&quot; your left hand will play finger one on C and then your right hand actually needs to shift up one key so now finger one will be on G, and your top finger five, your pinky, will be on D in between these two black keys. Ok, and that's because you're going to need that D. You have and no one knows Ok, so left-hand finger one, then right hand finger four, so you're playing from C to C, and no one knows so the finger numbers are 1 4 5 2 1 Now you try. Good, and then, how far it goes is the same thing. How far it goes Now you try. Good, now let's listen to it so far. So back with finger one on F we have, See the line where the sky meets the sea, it calls me. Now the left hand helps, one knows how far it goes. Good, and then we move back to finger one on F for the next part, and it's the same patterns we just did. If the wind in my sail on the sea Now you try. Good, then we have, stays be behind me which is 1 1 5 2 Good, now let's put those together so we have, If the wind in my sail on the sea stays behind me and try that section on your own. Press play when you're ready to go on. Ok, now once again we need to shift our right hand up one key, so now my finger one is on G, my finger five is on D, and we'll have one day I'll know Ok, so one more time we have 1 4 5 2 1 to the end, so we have how far notes with the left hand on this C, and then the right hand finger four will play C two times, we have how far I'll go and then the left hand can add a chord. I'm playing F, A, and C with fingers 1, 3, and 5 at the same time, to make it sound strong and exciting at the end. So we have how far I'll go and then the left hand can add a chord. Alright, let's listen to the whole thing once. Great job learning how to play, &quot;How Far I'll Go&quot; from Moana. If you practice every day there's just no telling how far you'll go. Thanks for watching and aloha! That was totally my idea to do a lesson on a song from Moana. Wasn't that great? Nice going. best ideas. Hoffman Academy just wouldn't be the same without me. What can I say except, you're welcome, for the tides, the sun, the sky! What? Really? Hey, it's okay, it's okay, you're welcome. I'm just an ordinary Scuba guy. Sheesh.