So I would like to speak to you today about now. Because some of these prayers are not only of prayers actually can be witchcraft prayers. going to bring God's blessing in your life but some problems in your life and God is against these prayers quickly. The first type of prayer is today 1 Timothy chapter 2:5 it says, For there is the Man Christ Jesus. Christians are by the power of the Holy Spirit. Christians you will not see nowhere in the Bible where through angels or through saints. All right. We the power of the Holy Spirit. The reason why Mediator. It is Jesus who is the way to God, not We honor the life of people that went before ministering spirits but when you pray to saints, you need to stop because it is not biblical. Now it's not only wrong, it's just not wise. So let's this case use me. Let's say you want to reach me public email you know you have an assistant of would you use? You will of course use the God and Jesus told us that Jesus is that direct somebody. They didn't die for you. They don't sitting at the right hand of God. There's sinners you know angels been with God. So we don't pray don't pray through saints. We pray directly to God the first prayer you need to stop praying today scripture reference is 1 Timothy 2 and 5. The that is using repetitive formulaic prayers. do not keep on babbling like pagans, for they words. So this simply means that genuine prayer or a formula. Let's drop this in the chat. Genuine chant or formula. Matthew 6 verse 7. Now does this Paul prayed said three times I asked the Lord to same prayer three times in the garden. So when He's not saying that saying the same thing is if they follow a formula and they utter prayers God. As long as I say the right words, as long as The issue of prayer has to do with your heart why you can even pray in silence, in solitude being verbalized. She was just moving her lips. the heart issue. It's the heart that God looks at God can read tears. Somebody drop this in the chat understand tears. God can hear our heart. He can any prayer that is only verbal and repetitive and what's going to win me God's favor, you need to going to help you and that prayer is not going to we need to stop praying is when we are praying second type of prayer that we need to stop praying that lack heart behind them. Third kind of prayers or curses on others. Romans 12:14 Bless those who are called to bless others even their enemies. your prayer to curse other people, you're doing You're trying to manipulate probably people. That is not biblical. Jesus on the cross did killed, he did not curse his critics. If you are if people are hating you, don't curse them, pray for them and bless them, they are going to you that. Plus what you're doing is you're protecting. that's what they wanted Balaam to curse Israel going to. I don't accept that. I do not want that to pray harm or curse on people. We're not into type of prayer you need to stop praying today is manipulative intentions and what I mean by that not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, Praying with selfish and manipulative intentions witchcraft as a form of the work of the flesh As a spiritual force, witchcraft works through flesh according to Galatians 5, witchcraft works and sometimes there is that manipulation that we are using prayer to get our own things now and all of us to some degree can feel sometimes like is not. The Lord is very clear in His word that we to Him for He cares for us. So how do we find the wrong motives and then praying for our needs? Proverbs, Delight yourself in the Lord and He will put my desires through the test of delight. So delight of God. If you don't delight in God, your this in the chat. If you don't delight in God, my friend David Diga Hernandez who just dropped a to you on your 2 million subscription milestone us. We love David and so drop some encouragement little break. If you do not delight in God, your manipulative. Your desires can be wrong and your is not right and in order for your desires to delight in God. So eight types of prayers that angels. Prayers to Mary. Prayers to saints. Second we said when we harm people through our prayers asking God to punish them. Fourthly is when In other words when we are praying for selfish when things are selfish and manipulative in are you asking God for what's in line with the asking God to bless your relationship when you say God bless our relationship. Well you can blesses things that are in line with His word or Lord I want you to bless my finances but you don't want God to you know save your children but you're guiding your children toward the righteousness. So manipulate God through our prayers by simply just she came to Jesus and said Jesus, I want you to other words, she prayed very selfish prayer give them anointing you know strengthen them. Amen. So we don't want to do that kind of prayer. right now and that is the prayer of invoking 18:10-12 says the following, Let no one be found interprets omens, engages in witchcraft, or casts spirits is strictly forbidden. So what does this guide. Now I understand for most of you, this is that but I want to address that because there are your witchcraft, your past with Jesus's power and you bring crystals to prayer. You bring all kinds of demonic objects to prayer and you're really know people who have walked you know know about practice that and they think there is nothing the spirit guides are guiding them toward better wrong and it is witchcraft and you should stop and we need the Holy Spirit and the name of Jesus occultic practices. The sixth thing that you need instead of trusting God's word. Matthew 12:39 for a sign. Now Christians are encouraged to trust signs or omens. Now is it true that God can give Gideon. He flipped a fleece and God can give have to understand that God wants you to trust in things. It's the substance of things. We have are constantly looking for a sign that God heard the people who will find themselves discouraged, weird and so awkward. I've seen you know when I sign that God told them or that God answered their that sign was that this person wore a particular that he came with and this is just so wrong. When signs. Drop this in the chat. Christians don't that again. Christians don't follow signs, signs we believe in miracles because God's miracles are because remember this about signs. When you see a else. The sign doesn't point to itself. The sign does bring confirmation to our prayers. God does signs as a Christian, you might not be exercising will send you signs, blessings to confirm your in His character and in His promise. So I don't follow the Lord. We follow God's promise. So praying to saints, if you are repeating, using if you're praying for harm or curses on others. intentions or selfish ambitious intentions. or using some kind of an occult, mixing occultic when I was praying for deliverance one time help her boyfriend not to leave her and this a spellbinding prayer and it hanged on the gave it to me who literally practices you know and witchcraft and so those kind of things are Spirit. Number six is when you are seeking sign that your prayer has been heard. Now there signs but as a Christian, we are seeking God, Because sometimes when you start praying for So for example when you know we asked God for a have a son. The signs were the opposite meaning, right after that, we found out from the doctors looking for a sign. Well the doctor just gave okay. So my circumstances, everything just didn't believe in being distracted by your circumstances, put it under the subject of your feelings and your word with signs and wonders, confirms but signs Drop this in the chat. Signs don't condition my that one more time. Signs don't condition my condition my faith? Because the Bible says that of God. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the condition. As a Christian, I don't chase them. believe. That's what Jesus said. So if you believe depend on the sign that God heard your prayer, is this, your faith is going to be troubled. Number seventh thing you need to stop praying, how as sources of power. Now there are objects, relics others are all kinds of you know prayer beats God and I am not against objects in general you baptism. Water is an element. Anointing oil is an I have a Bible. So it's physical object. When That's fine but people who begin to bring you know need to hold some kind of a cloth that was touched that I picked up in Jerusalem. I need to have a cross. If you need to have an object in your hands I want to tell you something, that is not Be offended but it's not biblical. There us to strengthen our prayer and you know what, the chat. Fasting is what strengthens your Fasting is what strengthens your prayer not it says, A number who had practiced sorcery them publicly. Relying on objects for power is God's power alone. Can God use objects to bring His power. God's power flowed through the rod of Jesus. He put saliva in dirt. God's power you we don't know if people actually got healed that handkerchiefs and belts were taken from the woman touched the garment of Jesus and she this. In all of these instances, God didn't person nor did God market it. You don't see the with God and then we see when the Lord brought that Moses lifted in the wilderness and we see the very things that God used. We have to be that God could use to strengthen your prayer. people and God can heal them. Somebody can hand is not the source. My hand is the tool hand in prayer nor do I need any tools other and most important thing that strengthens your or icons, statues of saints, crucifixes. I'm not connect with God, the Bible is very clear that our and the Bible is very clear that when we add So if you need help in prayer ask the Holy Spirit. If you need help in prayer, bring your Bible to turn on an instrumental worship music and worship God, you should be worshiping God. The music is you don't need all kinds of objects and you don't in prayer. You don't need them. Jesus didn't teach to aid us in prayer and the last thing and that is kingdom and this is when you are asking God for for popularity, for fame but you're not seeking But seek first His kingdom and His righteousness Prioritizing material wealth over spiritual in the chat. Prioritizing wealth over spiritual putting your finances as more important than your the material world as more important than the When you put your needs as more important than Why? Because in the kingdom, the king takes care you're in the kingdom because He will take care connected to the king, to His priorities and then for your needs? 100% Should you pray for material course. Should you ask God for a wife? Yes. Should wants to be involved in everything in our life and that's all you're praying for, your prayer is and that's all you're asking for, your prayer How did the prodigal son's prayer was? Father, because it's almost like he said, I don't care I kind of hope you die but you're not dying fast inheritance and what did that prayer led him to. got, eventually, he didn't want because he ended where you are not submissive to God's will, you're not submissive to God's kingdom, let's they're going to draw you, distract you away place than the place that you are in right now and what kind of prayer he prayed when he came back. sons. So it's a prayer of humility of brokenness of your servants. So let me ask you a question, more like make me? Ouch. Pray more prayers about your prayers be more of make me than give me. Nothing wrong with them, that has its place but Jesus and all of your prayers is give me what's you might be a child of God and find yourself what you wanted and not wanting what you got. I'm that in the chat. If all you're praying is give you're not going to want what you got. I know it's you're praying is give me what's mine, you might got. Come on somebody. Drop that in missed that. If all your prayers is give me what's mine, you might get what you want and you will not guess what happened after that, he did not like prostitutes. Why? How? Misguided prayers, wrong like Lord make me to be like one of your servants. Lord change me, make me, change me, cleanse me and when you are changed, when you are cleansed, spin on them, they take a different approach on you should never ask the Father for the things absolutely not. What I am saying is if the God and you're simply just asking for what you His priorities, what He wants, you might get what going to hate what you got and the Lord doesn't got to stifle our spiritual growth. He doesn't Him and lead us to misery. Things don't bring all we are obsessed with is things, what begins world and the reason why we become most unhappy things and people who love things, use people. use people and people who love people, use things. usually use people and those who love people, use to be obsessed with material things is because happy afterwards because happiness comes from you have. That's why you can go to different parts you have and you see little children happy. Why? life and secondly, they are in a relationship. they don't bring happiness. Now that there is having certain comforts in life but the deepest you have deep good relationships with God and with without worshiping them and without without drawing worth from those things nor a healing or fulfillment from those things. You have things and those things don't have you. You don't love them. You use them because you love you know break me, use me, change me but prayers give me, give me, give me. Those prayers are foundation and the foundation is this, I'm who I am but if you give me these things, I will course God give you the glory which God never gets we celebrate in the club because God was just a financial wealth and prosperity and the success that I find the right person. I don't care if person as long as that person likes me, that's you know I know he's not a Christian but I'll that kind of a prayer, it's a wrong prayer. Stop to use people. God wants you to use things. God true fulfillment is at and God wants you to love things because you love Him and you love people, people and some encouragement. Yeah somebody in the church, we celebrate in the club. That's pray the wrong prayer is if they pray for it in which means prayer was a means to an end, and the to be our portion. So today, I just ask each type of prayers. What these prayers are. Praying God in Jesus name by the power of the Holy Spirit. heart of prayer is the heart, it's not the kind or curses on others. God wants us to bless people did that when he was being stoned. Number four wrong intentions and we said, how do you test your of the delight with God. Do you delight in God? Is be trusted but if your desires cannot go through them. Number five is when you pray using all kinds other occultic practices and yes, people do that but you're seeking signs obsessively instead of have signs follow them, Christians don't follow you're not strengthening your faith. Number seven of power. We did say that God can use objects you the only objects you need is the word of God, is and what strengthens our prayer is fasting, not demonic or some kind of a holy statue or a statue. or icon. Those things don't strengthen your the Holy Spirit and the last thing we said is when you're not seeking God's kingdom, that prayer is you know make me, give me what's yours and we you might get what you want but you'll never end up using people instead of loving people. not be happy and you will drift from the Lord and it's painful prayer but the prayer we should be use me and then we should pray, give me. Amen. Has moment and pray right now. Would you help me and to come to a time of prayer? Lord I thank you for your mercy. I thank you that you are here. Lord I us and teaches us to pray but your word teaches ever prayed manipulative, revengeful prayers. not seeking your kingdom where our desires could that's watching has prayed to Mary or saints kinds of you know Buddhist meditation, chants and of witchcraft items to strengthen their prayer, the name of Jesus. We repent for trusting more in the repetition of prayer, the volume of prayer to count our tears, read our thoughts and hear sometimes when our prayers are few, our words there is no words but just tears rolling down our we don't pray to show off. We don't pray for to pray to experience your blessing and so we ask you long prayers, prayers with fasting, prayers with or our native language, prayers that are taken taken directly from our heart. I pray that you Amen. Amen. I want to give an opportunity right if you have been blessed by this live stream, drop live stream has really helped me then what we but I want to invite you if this live stream was with our ministry as I mentioned. Right now, we printing, we're going to be... once we finish and printing them, sending them, distributing them we help give free content to millions of all of our books are downloadable for free. Our with humanitarian aid so like even this coming this month you know there's a lot of projects last month and I received that from from my team poor family in Romania, sponsored to install power a camp expense for children affected and orphaned 220 kids in Ukraine who are orphan to a camp also families and who have been abused in Zambia to week, we help to buy six stoves for families in Arizona and so a lot of different things that our highlight those things online, sometimes we don't Vietnam, physical copies to give it to pastors because of your contribution. So I want to invite month or maybe giving your best gift, once or you help us to move this mission further for the glory see that, Hey I have a lot of different languages of this stuff doesn't happen you know without staff and different people do different things, very small capacity, some people in a very large music, some people upload and translate in Spanish translate books, some people work with charities, write things that I speak and to edit them, not books and somebody posts and then somebody takes that are being done behind the scenes. Every time you know a lot of them, they just get really a team and the only reason I'm able to do that is to just touch the world. So thank you so much