Translator: Helene Vernet I read a recent survey, and the title was, and what Americans fear most In other words, my TEDx talk. (Laughter) If that weren't tough enough, and the question is really: What we know of dying is based on We have all seen grim, and we've all felt profound loss. So, if there is light it's in the experience So tonight, I'm going to share with you the words and experience And my hope is that you hear the dying often describing in ways that are actually life-affirming, and rich with meaning, Before I go any further, I need If it looks like I cannot stand still (Laughter) The second is that, aside from my mother, nobody has ever described me as particularly spiritual And trust me, this talk has nothing A much harder truth for me to the non-physical, that goes back to my childhood. On August 6, 1974, I was 12 years old, and I was standing over the bed As he lay in there, he reached out and started and he said we had to hurry; We were going to go up north And that was the last time I saw him. My point here is I feel it has chosen or followed me personally and professionally. Like my father, I became a doctor. This may sound strange, medical schools are They never mention dying, Medical training is learning and when you can't defy it, This approach to medicine worked for me when I was doing things But in 1999, through a series I ended up at this place called hospice. At hospice, the curative science has not only failed the patient who is, eventually, And when I was present I was confronted by what I had seen and tried so hard I saw dying patients to mothers, and to fathers, many of whom hadn't been seen But what was remarkable was In April of 1999, I was in the room of a patient Her name was Mary. She was nearing the end of her life, One day, Mary starts cradling She refers to him as Danny The next day, Mary's sister and explains that Danny was, actually, The loss was so deep that Mary was unable Yet, while dying, in some manner of tangible warmth Mary, like so many dying patients, had physical wounds yet her spiritual wounds A few weeks later, I went and saw I came out to the nurse's station, if we just give him some IV antibiotics Without so much as looking up, a nurse named Nancy I say, &quot;Why?&quot; She says, &quot;Because he's seeing I say, &quot;I don't remember She says, &quot;Son, Anyways... (Laughter) Tom ends up dying. What Nancy knew that I did not know was that Tom's end-of-life They were significant, but to those of us So, if I were to have any worth, I needed to understand, I needed to learn. I learned that end-of-life experiences are and often refer to Such experiences have been reported They are mentioned in the Bible, In our culture, the richest have always come from the humanities but from poets, playwrights, These observers have commented that end-of-life experiences they are essentially intrinsic They're characterized provide comfort, insight, and in so doing, So why does medicine has so little to say about something that's so meaningful, not just for the patient In part, it's because end-of-life experiences And it's true; many dying patients experience confusion However, in contrast to patients' experience confused patients are detached. They have disorganized thinking. They're unable to figure out and they are more often than not The distinction is best [understood] The patient you are about to see was nearing the end of her life; (Video starts) Jeanne: I was lying in bed, and people were walking, The right hand side, I didn't know, and they touched my arm But the other side, were people that I knew. My mom and dad were there, my uncle; Everybody I knew And they passed and did the same thing. I thought it was a good dream, but boy, I remember seeing I mean, I know that was my mom and dad, I have seen my mother, recently, more. Interviewer: How do you feel Jeanne: Oh...! Wonderful! I can't say that my mother and I but we made up for it, at the end. (Video ends) Christopher Kerr: Jeanne isn't confused, and it would be dehumanizing her But she shows us so much more. She shows us that dying is this paradox: she is physically declining, yet, emotionally and spiritually, she's vivid; she's alive, End-of-life experiences are not only but they are tied the need to love, to be loved, End-of-life experiences between body and soul, between the realities we know, between our past and our present. But most importantly, end-of-life experiences between and across lives, so that mothers like Mary and children like Jeanne can be reunited and comforted So, again, the question: why are the words of the dying I don't have all of the answer, but it's true we live in a time and where data and evidence are requisites Unfortunately, when it comes most of the reports were based In other words, nobody or attempted to quantify or measure. So that's what we've done, and to date, we have In our first study, we spoke with 66 patients and gathered 450 interviews. What we found was reported at least described as more real than real, The next question is: We found out that 72% family, relatives, or pets, 59% of this theme of going 29% of the living, and 28% So the next question was this: did different dream content provide Here's comfort on a zero to five scale, And of all the dream types, seeing the deceased was associated The next question was: were there changes over time in either the content or frequency Essentially, the Nancy question; could you almost predict death Of course, again, Nancy's right. Frequency is on the y-axis, As patients approach death, they've a dramatic increase They are dreaming, which is associated with So, the next question we wanted was what did these mean to the dreamer? Were there common themes? The most common theme Seeing the dead or seeing the living provided a sense of reunion, Maggie, for example, was in her 80s. She had been harmed greatly And before she dies, she dreams of this friend, &quot;Sorry, you are a good person. Kenny was 88 years old. He lost his mother as a child. And before he dies, He is in his mother's kitchen, and hears her soothing Sandy was raised by her sister Emily. And before she passes, Emily returns &quot;Remember what I taught you.&quot; Many patients reported and they're described Little is said, but much is understood. This next video is Paul. Paul has a terminal illness. In fact, he dies three weeks But he's talking about his deceased wife. (Video starts) Paul: I dream in color, most times. And she always wears It could be a suit. But it's always light blue. A couple of times, she's giving me And a couple of times, she, sort of, Only once or twice She always lets me know that she's fine. I get that feeling (Video ends) CK: As I said, 60% dreamed Jimmy sees many deceased &quot;I haven't seen I know we are going somewhere, Others dreamed of the deceased Sarah says, &quot;There were six dead It's good to see them.&quot; Less frequently, people These are often relived, past, And here again is Paul. (Video starts) Paul: Another thing I've dreamed of is I'm back in the service. I'm at Fort Devens up in Massachusetts, where they were forming this company The guys are all young. They're like... And I'm trying to tell them, &quot;Guys! I've been here. I've done this. And they're arguing with me! (Video ends) (Laughter) CK: I have the deep privilege which tend to emerge Sometimes, I'm saddened by the amount But more often, I'm inspired by the strength of the human spirit, and its endless quest to heal And this brings me to the story of Mack. I met Mack in 2011. When I walked into his room and started he gave me three words, and he said, His family explained that Mack never spoke he was unable to close his eyes He couldn't sleep that's why Mac went on to explain He was very proud to be from Texas At the age of 17, he was involved in He was a gunner on a landing craft But his nightmares were about Because that's when he was He called these nightmares He says, &quot;There is nothing but death... A few days later, Mack was completely transformed. He looked comfortable He said the horrifying dream had quieted, There were comforting dreams In the comforting dreams, he got his discharge papers In the neutral dream, a dead soldier He doesn't know who he is, and he says, &quot;Soon, they, your fellow soldiers, Mack was rescued by the dead soldiers He had closure. He could close He died peacefully, But just think about it. The human spirit and that courageous to be free, to be released from that enormous obligation, from that horrible injustice. His end-of-life experiences didn't deny but it recast it in such a way that he was finally granted I want to end where I began: my hope was that you'd hear Their words are compelling and relevant. And I hope they leave open the possibility that there is light Look back on your own life. Think of your greatest loss, your greatest comfort, - loss of someone you loved, the familiar, warm hug of a grandparent, What if, at the end of your life, the lost return, distant feelings become familiar, If any of that is true, Thank you. (Applause)