There's a hidden section of settings that gives been asking for! Beta updates for AirPods that close apps to maximize battery life? You got it! system data? You could do that too! But are all You'd be surprised - this isn't just a menu for rest of us to know about. Before we get into all to enable Developer Mode on this iPhone. Let's thing we need is Xcode, it's a free App Store app. are. I'm going to allow this accessory to connect to trust this computer. I'm going to tap Trust. then I'll tap the Window menu at the top of the I see David's phone on the left-hand side iPhone for development, enable Developer Mode in that menu before - well, there's a first time for app, scroll down, tap Privacy and Security, Mode option underneath Security. Tap on that and Developer Mode is turned on, your device security Developer Mode - tap Restart. So in my computer, reappear when you unlock your phone. You get this mark. This pop-up has a warning - if you're allows you to use features that are required for your device security will be reduced. Reduce to worry about here because it doesn't apply to your iPhone - it only applies to apps that you're iPhone and haven't been vetted by Apple yet. So I can unplug David's iPhone from my computer - right? So we're going to go through this menu are advanced, some of which are for developers might really change the way you use your iPhone. down and now underneath TV Provider, we have a new that. The first option at the top - Clear Trusted all of the records of computers that you have iPhone to a computer for the first time or your pop-up. If you recently gave away your computer still be connected to those devices. And frankly, the Reset menu of the regular Settings app. Let's we didn't get any sort of prompt or pop-up from Developer section of Settings, but these things is UI Automation - UI in this case stands for User buttons, the background. It enables developers to really apply to us, but what about Hang Detection? own the app. I wish I could run it on Facebook Let's tap on Network Link Conditioner. This is a down your iPhone's connection to the internet to a have bad Wi-Fi or bad cellular data connection. you could just tap Enable, turn that switch on Bad Network or a hundred percent loss. 100 loss, going to turn off the switch next to Enable. Let's and talk about Responsiveness Test. Apple says network by the number of round trips completed per have an acronym for RPM - finally! Let's tap that Responsiveness Test results - low 378 RPMs - not Xcode and doing your own test, let us know what but if you're not following along, you could help keep moving. Let's skip Universal Links and go Throughput Test and we can tap Start Test at the Throughput has to do with the actual speed of your packet loss, zero percent. How about that? pretty good, fast. Yep, play games, download 34.28 megabits per second. This was actually cool bye-bye Speedtest.net. Throughput. This next one for you on a day-to-day basis. Let's step back, at Fast App Termination. Normally, when you close this, every time you close an app, it disappears have caches that get stored in memory and those this on kills that app, kills that app's cache, up, we have App Clips Testing. App Clips have of an app that can be launched quickly into a two options and clear that Experience Cache to Clear Experience Caching - again, no real feedback things are working. Let's skip the Wallet section AirPlay Testing is similar in that long-form Netflix and music apps like Spotify. Any app forward - that's a long-form content app. This want it to play to all the time and not default interesting if you're always playing your music we can clear up some more system data by tapping Media Services - no response, perfect, cold and app - you can make us feel a little bit better by next setting here is another good one for clearing Local Data on Next Launch. It's going to clear out re-download the assets. News app's going to take but can free up system data. Let's scroll down this is where I have to admit that I was wrong how to clear out system data, I said tap Re-Index All Items. I should have said just tap Re-Index apps that have Identifiers, AKA developer apps. Items. How about that? How about that pop-up but it is happening in the background. It just and that's going to reduce system data usage as out that video and leave an angry comment at the By default, Series Suggestions contain shortcuts this setting, you can choose to have it display be more convenient for you. Let's scroll down. Recent Shortcuts before we move on to the part of which is an awesome thing we're going to talk a little technical but stick around. I'm going turned on, Siri Suggestions in Search will show Media Manager (all one word) so in this case the perspective of Siri: its job is to serve you, the can't just do it by itself, right? Because you're its apps, that it can use to give you what you insulting me. In this case, the intents are the ingredients that they can use. So an intent might might be a song that you recently listened to. So it needs to know who's on the staff In real life, here, it needs to know what apps is is a beta test of a new feature that Apple want to listen to next and this controls that I'm going to turn on the switch next to Display confusing or technical for you, you are not alone. out to our members with our recommendations click that big join button below this video and Next up, Display Donations on Lock Screen. setting. Let's turn that switch on. Could we're going to scroll down to MIDI CI Testing. Interface Digital Interface. This is just a the background there's a keytar on the wall. wirelessly. Right now, it's pretty clunky, maybe you're a doomsday prepper, we can Next up, everybody's favorite section of the I'm going to tap on Pre-Release Beta Firmware. (those are the new AirPods Pro Generation don't I just go ahead and turn all those on? Yeah, when you turn this on, you have a legal consent going to do. We're going to fast forward or I'm reading this. That'd be boring, unlike this I read it and I agree. We turn this on so that Settings menu, you will see new features before this Developer section of Settings, there's no updates will be installed when your AirPods are We're going to skip right over the Device go all the way down to the most disappointing and that is Graphics HUD. Let's tap back, Graphics Hub. We've got Show Graphics HUD and I thought, &quot;This is awesome! I can finally show frame rates are than mine are on my iPhone,&quot; but yourself have created. So, unless you are the Now that we've gone through let's ask the question: is this probably not. You need a Mac and you need an What do you think, David? Well, how much is an know. Well, if you already have a Mac and you're things work and maybe try your hand at creating an You know what's really worth it for app developers this video and check it out for a whole