We have a bunch of new info on GBA games for gonna kick things off with some newly translated These details come from a great interview issue. Taking part in the interview are three men development -- Satoru Okada, Kenichi Sugino, Okada in particular is a true Nintendo OG. He had a hand in creating the Game &amp; Watch, up to the DSi XL before he retired in 2012. Okada begins by saying Nintendo had been, since 1994." Right off the bat this is pretty interesting. Development on the Game Boy Color started the waters a whole two years earlier, and The timeframe of those experiments lines up failed Game Boy successor that allegedly boasted before the GBA. Rumors about Atlantis first sprung up in 1996, basically all hearsay. That was until 2009's Game Developers Conference. At that year's GDC, Nintendo's Masato of the DSi, and showed off some prototypes. One of them was this -- it was Atlantis. Kuwahara gave us photo evidence that it was to Okada, we know development started on it was a nod to the 1996 Olympic games soon to So, those Atlantis rumors in 1996 got the processor they mentioned? And why was Atlantis scrapped? Over the years people have speculated that life. And if Nintendo's PR is to be believed, it's and they didn't want to cannibalize their But we think we might have stumbled upon the it has something to do with those rumors of In June 2019, the 'Talks at Google' YouTube -- a hardware designer who worked at ARM for In the interview, Dave states that he was -- a timeframe that matches up exactly with This was just after ARM unleashed ARM7, which The original ARM700 was a 32 bit microprocessor issues that made it less than ideal for something The biggest problem relevant to games hardware explain. Initially, ARM7 could only use the default width instruction set. Every instruction then took up 32 bits, even of unoptimized and bloated code that needed This is problematic, because if a game's its data can't be cut or compressed any megabyte cartridge it'd have to be put on This is because computer storage grows most to 2, 4, 8, 16 etc. So if you're a company like Nintendo, and the 8 meg mark, you now have to spend more Since Nintendo was talking to Dave in 1994, an ARM processor in their hardware, and it processor" rumors from the 90s. We think this also makes it pretty clear that And about 28 years ago, someone else thought In Electronic Gaming Monthly's eighty-third used an ARM710 processor. Next Generation magazine on the other hand processor, which came in 100, 160, and 200 Even if Nintendo went with the weakest version on par with the Nintendo 64's CPU. And frankly, a mid-90s gaming handheld rivaling sounds like, well, a load of old bollocks. It seems like EGM's source was closer to the the code density issue, and Nintendo needed games and push them onto bigger, more expensive While on a train in February 1994, Dave designed on the architecture in his college thesis. He realized that ARM could have two instruction a 16-bit set he named Thumb. Basically, Thumb's instructions are encoded half the bus width and occupying half the And although some tasks would require more written in Thumb code took up just 70% of This is exactly what Nintendo needed, as it on small ROM cartridges. And the first ARM processor that could use way into the final Game boy Advance. Dave goes over some other interesting tidbits believed that Nokia commissioned development it a few years before the GBA released, but And that the NSA wanted to put a backdoor And that's about all Dave said -- at least video. So let's get back to that 64Dream interview. The team wraps up their anecdotes about the only given about a year to finalize its hardware. But even during this hectic time, and despite contemplating a true successor to the Game And the team would get their chance after When designing the Game Boy Advance, one of was the screen size and aspect ratio. Kenichi Sugino says they could've just kept but that wouldn't have been impactful. They wanted the GBA to have a sense of 'it's But this wasn't the only reason. The Game Boy got tons of home console ports compressed, and even worse, they were all Boy display. The Advance screen had to be wider. The GBA's screen ended up being closer to at the time, but even more comparable to the 'widescreen' TVs. The team experimented with different button with some "long" designs similar to the But the designs all ended up being too ugly to reach the L and R buttons on the shoulders. The team tried to fix the issue by moving considered completely ignoring button layouts But Game Boy games had to be playable on GBA, somewhat similar. The team realized they had to switch to a and compact, which also left the Game Boy After tinkering with two GBA prototypes that some optimizations that reduced cost and improved take it for a spin. But developers had a problem with it; it was And the team actually took the criticism on-board. Ryuji Umezu said "In the end what we made a separate 2 megabit memory. That increased the cost, but also had a lot [Like] being able to download programs into This made it possible for 4 player modes using It also allowed us to connect to the [GameCube], We kept coming up with more and more ideas Interestingly, the GameCube had a small influence Sugino says the reason they made the main 'Cube. He goes on to say "The GBA was displayed have the mold ready in time, and had no choice (lol). [...] We made over 40 different samples like want to use the same colors as previous [Game With it being a new product, we wanted to before. [...] The GBA is a bit high priced, and higher more of an adult coloring." And that's why one of the launch colors Now -- behind-the-scenes info about Nintendo but it's about time we looked at some actual First, we're gonna take a quick look at never heard before. It comes from the December 2003 issue of Japan's with a few Alpha Dream devs about their work We had it translated, but unfortunately it of info. In the game's final cutscene, Toadsworth basically not interacting with each other According to the game's scenario writer wanted these characters' relations to go beyond Kubota said "I like Lady Lima. She's got such a sharp tongue... If I had more leeway in development, I would Lima and Toadsworth." That could have been either very cute or very Time to move on from Superstar Saga, but that's Another interview we had translated comes Magazine. This one's all about Mario Kart: Super Circuit of Pokemon gen three. The previous Mario Karts were both made in-house would fall to long-time Nintendo partner Intelligent So this interview gathers Intelligent Systems' Super Circuit, as well as programmer Kenji -- one of the guys who oversaw development And these four divulge some pretty interesting Hiroyuki Kimura kicks things off by saying GBA's actual hardware, they thought about Kart seemed like a good fit. Nintendo's past handhelds lacked the power but they could pull it off on GBA, and even When the team began testing their ideas, they the SNES, and incorporated some elements from Things developed quickly from here. Kenji Matsumoto mentions how time consuming barely scraping 3 courses together for Space The game was first revealed here as "Mario to keep for its Japanese release. But it seems scarcity turned into surplus, "...we created a tool that made things faster. We actually made a lot of other courses that Then Kimura chimes in, revealing something under the sea as well, but Miyamoto said no He said karts don't work underwater (lol)." Despite Miyamoto's initial resistance to embrace the idea a decade later in Mario Kart To make the courses, Morimoto would draw them create a test map. His designs were random at first and didn't a feel for drawing more interesting curves on. All in all, the game's tracks would be reworked Interestingly, Morimoto seems to say the team and floor tiles, then made the courses after. The team soon realized that a handheld Mario its console cousins. While multiplayer in Super Mario Kart and on GBA everyone would have their own screen. In Super and 64, you could see what items puts it, "pressure and bargaining" among At one point the team wanted to maintain this all 4 players' points-of-view onto the GBA The GBA's resolution is only 240 by 160 would render gameplay with just 120 by 80 That's half as many pixels as an OG Game why the idea was dropped. They ultimately let each player enjoy their players take advantage of what others couldn't The resulting lack of screen sniping and "bargaining" altered the appearance rate of items to compensate. Each player using their own GBA in multiplayer says was the hardest part of developing the Multiplayer was achieved in past Mario Kart a single console, meaning all the player inputs But if a multiplayer setup uses two or more will receive user input, and all those inputs The team struggled to get all the GBAs communicating late into development. In fact, they were troubleshooting it all Despite this, the team decided to expand multiplayer the Mobile Adapter GB. This Japan-exclusive device would link the wireless capabilities to play with others For example, Mario Kart players could download the service. They were ranked on both national and regional like 'Kyoto Prefectural Champion'. There were also ranked time trial contests, by Nintendo. These could have all kinds of custom rules number of coins you can collect, maybe having it so players can only enter the tournament The interview ends with the team letting everyone Mario Kart Advance GP 2001, and that the finals Mario Kart games weren't originally intended we're looking at was born on and refined Let's dive back into that same issue of we had translated. This one's for a game fans still hope will The interview features such developers as Takehiko Hosokawa, and programmer Goro Abe. Near the start of the interview, Matsuoka Land 4 should be designed for playing in short portability. But some balance issues had to be addressed Takehiko Hosokawa had played a key role in this point. And while looking back at the series' he had adopted what he believed to be a design With the exception of Wario Land 3's final 3 can defeat Wario and trigger a game over impede Wario's progress. It might seem like Wario's near God-like Hosokawa came to see it as a huge disadvantage. Simply put, if Wario can't die, the game So Hosokawa began thinking about how he could to tinker with Wario Land 3. He ended up adding a countdown to the game limit, and it worked. Hosokawa had found that missing sense of urgency, into every level of Wario Land 4. It's kinda funny they ended up slapping but yea... In early builds of the game, a countdown would and you'd have to collect treasure within This would be expanded upon with the switch The team wanted to cram as many stages into to reel in their expectations in order to When development first started, the team looked 3 on Game Boy, and recreated it on GBA as As work progressed, the team were surprised the GBA's graphics compared to Game Boy animating Wario. The team gave Wario almost twice as many frames Land 3, letting them work far more character In Wario Land 3, if you leave the game alone Wario will kinda just fall asleep, or scratch But in Wario Land 4 he'll do things like According to Hosokawa, these idle animations just threw them in for the fun of it. "You can see the various quirks of the staff Like the dumbbell and jump rope, those weren't staff drawing Wario thinking that, 'instead was doing something', then putting that He also implies the game originally had even saying "We made the game by packing in a off what was unnecessary at the end." You can tell the team had a lot of fun making They even put themselves into the game's Matsuoka says this was to "demonstrate as Another point brought up in the interview in the devs own words, "grotesque designs". This was apparently done because Wario is devs wanted to make the game seem more American. They even gave Wario an American looking car. Goro Abe says this state-side cultural pivot According to Abe, earlier games in the series "dedicated fans". They saw this as an issue, and wanted to give A slightly Americanized Wario would be more tend to see American things as kinda cool Another way they made the game feel more American talking and singing in English. That doesn't seem too strange today, but that Wario Land 2 and 3 veterans might feel And this sentiment was echoed by Nintendo's checking the game. But in the end, Wario Land 4's audacious With the conversation winding down, the interviewer doesn't?" Matsuoka reckons Wario's mischievous nature "He's rare for a Nintendo character in Even the [game] manual is a bit questionable, We don't recall Wario Land 4's manual the Japanese game manual. And yea, it goes a bit harder than the North Besides Wario's diary entry going into gross the Japanese manual also has Wario saying heights. Did you also know that Nintendo actually used Or that Miyamoto says Captain Olimar's wife For more info, check out our last video on Special thanks to Jacob Newcomb for translating checking, and to Sanqui for explaining GBA And thank you for watching. See ya next time.