Sally Satel: I met Steven Pinker in around Institute, which is where I work, to talk had preceded him because he's one of the best and also outside. And we've been friends since his dazzling intellect and also what a lovely Steve Pinker did his undergraduate work at at Harvard. He went to Stanford as an assistant 2000, mid-2000s, back to Harvard as the Johnstone The breadth and depth of his work is quite research has ranged from mental imagery to language acquisition, the neural bases of and the decline of violence, and how to write in 1994 with The Language Instinct, then How Slate, The Stuff of Thought, The Better Angels The Sense of Style. And two of those books Finally, he is steeped in much deserved recognition that he's been willing to take on. He's won the National Academy of Sciences, the American he was named one of Times's most influential also by Foreign Policy and Prospect, one of by Foreign Policy, one of the top global thinkers. Association of Psychological Science, he will So, let's get started by asking you, how did your parents, your upbringing, and your early Steven Pinker: You wouldn't think that would or curses of being a psychologist is you can't because I don't think anyone has any idea our retrospective accounts of our childhood things that make us who we are starting with said that the greatest influence that parents conception, and we know that the research Unless you have an identical twin who was what the influence of genes is on your intellect who is adopted into your family at the same you have no idea what the influence of your from a lot of behavior genetic studies that adopted siblings by the time they are adults and personality. And unless you grow up with and your environment and you see differences way of appreciating the role of chance. And role of sheer randomness in making us who and turn when the brain develops and little that might shift you on one or another path take with a grain of salt anything that I of us has any idea what made us who we are. father, Harry Pinker, who I lost just both highly verbal, talented in math. My mother, verbal, and I certainly grew up in a house Jewish household so there was a lot of debate Jews, 11 political parties.&quot; in the house when I was a teenager. My mother Science Series where every month a different topic: electricity and magnetism, light and was the mind, and I do remember being quite that more than anything led me to appreciate On the other hand, when I was at Stanford a professor of psychology interested in psychology South Dakota. So, this is a good reason to your professional interest to the neighborhood Sally Satel: You said that at 13 you were work was on vision. How did that came about Steven Pinker: I think another thing that growing up in the '60s. I was a baby boomer. you're going to be an anarchist or a Marxist And those ultimately boiled down to questions you must have a fairly rosy view of human a Leviathan to keep them from each other's ideologies. So, I do remember having debates we need money or people would just naturally or people would naturally cooperate -- but nature. So, you have to pick a discipline grappling with big, important, consequential that you could study it in a lab. who had just been hired at Harvard when I a friend ever since. He was just six years was 22 -- but he was building a research program of us were I think entranced by an idea that that there is an important level of understanding sense explanation, like, &quot;I went to the fridge or &quot;I'm going to vote for Hillary because of content of everyday conversation of ideas and that level is computation, that is that that knowledge is a form of information, that mechanisms, and that that is the level at that is neither reduces to common sense nor and that there are many laws of thought and Steve at that time was doing that for mental to answer questions like, what shape are Mickey really thought about that, but, okay, oh yeah, to fit into a trunk or if I'm writing a novel leave the room, all the kinds of things we that mean? And Steve I think was the first what it could mean to think in pictures or by a lot of people to be a mistake. computer graphics, where computation meant and you'd get strings back, and no one could a picture. And a lot of bad philosophy was &quot;Oh, if there was a picture in the head, you'd then you'd need an even smaller picture inside have a mental image is all a category mistake, walking around looking for Pete. So, all these why mental imagery was incoherent. And Steve would today call graphics -- namely, you could now call pixels -- I don't even know if the kind of web-like database from which the images for our ability to form and use images. I read as a graduate student that I realized namely, how do you represent a third dimension dimensional shapes when you take organic chemistry and you have to kind of mentally rotate it it from the inside. The third dimension has of depth - that is make it a set of voxels, of pixels, because then you wouldn't get perspective. standing between railroad tracks, they converge, and things get smaller as they move away. an information representation of a space could effects of a vantage point in perspective Sally Satel: Wow. That sounds actually incredibly to language acquisition? as a graduate student. Harvard at that time They didn't give tenure to any of their cognitive fad, that only mathematical psychology was cognitive science that was actually happening Roger Brown, the great social psychologist of the faculty. And staying with the key idea of computation, I tried to think of what would with that would take sentences as input, the and your siblings and your friends, and produce Japanese or Swahili or any other language. off more as a theoretician - namely, what could to do that learning? And then that led to of grammar -- how does the child learn endings to flip the subject and auxiliary to pose driven. around the '80s and early '90s. Sally Satel: How is it that you didn't get I mean, PET came out in the '80s and then enormously attractive to many folks but you Steven Pinker: Yes. I am a psychologist. I with others with using cognitive neuroscience one paper looking at patients with focal lesions paper where we collaborated with neurosurgeons the brain and grids that sit on the surface but to treat and diagnose epilepsy. And fortunately, to have a seizure were all too happy to relieve experimental procedures. a psychologist, I'm not a neuroscientist. I did help out in the neuroscience lab, I in any way on my manual dexterity. I missed -- Steven Pinker: Yeah. So, anything that involved do believe -- and this is a belief we share, Brainwashed on mindless neuroscience -- that of human behavior, thought, emotion is not but at a higher level of analysis, and for processing. in 1994, obviously took you out of the lab, and brought you into the public. Why did you the public? I was an avid consumer of books by scientists Richard Dawkins, Martin Gardner for mathematics, really done that for psychology, at least thought. And when I would tell people what be, &quot;Wow, that's really interesting,&quot; and of Stephen Jay Gould-style book explaining And then, I'd written two books that are, in stores. These were university press books, of the editors at MIT Press said -- and I writing doesn't suck,&quot; and said, &quot;Have you for a wider audience,&quot; and that's what led Sally Satel: And talk a little bit about the you still are of course, but into being finally Steven Pinker: Well, I've often -- and I think but you get feedback from the world as to the various things that you do or could do. the ratio in my portfolio from kind of 50/50 more language, it was in response to my seeing in the work that I did in language. I got give talks and so on, and so I shifted the to write about topics of interest to the wider and that too shifted the ratio. early book? Were there critics Steven Pinker: Well, The Language Instinct got almost entirely positive reviews -- the last time that I enjoyed that blessed state. And I was surprised written books for a wider audience, the typical by the way is this building where they have And I wrote it with that in mind. I had no years later, that it would be reviewed in low expectations. And when it was widely reviewed and it didn't strike that many people as controversial. the book touched on some controversies within of the academic journals there was a fairly popular press and the other academic journal Sally Satel: Great. Well, speaking of the whom you've had friendly and maybe a little I'm going to read this list. And it's actually but, okay. So, one with Noam Chomsky of language and even the very purpose of language. You seem to have an interesting theory about that; Jerry Fodor about how the mind works; and evolutionary basis of sex differences Rose on the evolutionary grounding of human John Gray -- he's a philosopher, right -- who values -- how dare you -- while arguing for you were far more optimistic) in The Better actually is a colleague of mine at the American with Professor Pinker on this, but arguing bioethics. This was in the context of The George Bush with respect to stem cell research, The New Republic related to that and also the concept of -- not the concept of human And also Leon Wieseltier, who's the former relationship between science and the humanities. was the most sort of productive, and Steven Pinker: Well, I like to think that psychologists we're blessed or cursed with that we overestimate how correct we are and you really can only understand something if what's defensible. So, I think I learned from of them but I would, wouldn't I? I'm trying to tease out -- which one was the most protracted? I mean, on panels. -- certainly the debate on the whether the to the empiricists and rationalists of the in it. Of course, it's not zero and 100 percent, but each has a different to developing brain interacting with input and so on, so I think we're getting better But I think the general framework of the role which I played out with Steve Gould and Steven way with Noam Chomsky and Jerry Fodor, even, on the nature side than I am because they idea of Darwinian natural selection as the sharp light what the nature of our innate we should expect it to look like. and maybe also worldviews, I mean I think as we have kind of a tragic view as opposed mean, there is a deep connection between ideas, which is to say that you're not completely are a determining being. But in that context, Thomas Sowell has had a role in your work. Steven Pinker: Yeah. Thomas Sowell was trained Institution but he has written on an astonishing him to contact me. He wrote a book his own son was pretty much mute until the of cognition. He tells a story of the boy knocking the midst of playing remotely and that Tom boy put every chess piece back in its exact development -- no language but highly advanced on language delay not from the point of view And I had known about his widespread writing and that began a friendship that both interested in human nature. in large part because, as you kind of hinted strongly on the political right, I am not political left, but one I think recurring is that it's a real mistake to pick either the entire inventory of ideas, I think you lessons from Noam Chomsky who is as far to is to the right. Everyone has interesting the entire agenda. talking children and his work on economics, of Visions on why the various left-wing opinions opinions should hang together, which you wouldn't think would have any underlying intellectual in favor of the death penalty,&quot; chances are they would be more skeptical about social foreign policy. Conversely, if someone was they'd also be concerned with economic inequality, So, why is it? And Tom argued that it really nature -- whether you have an inherently tragic certain flaws and shortcomings because of biases and short-sightedness and selfishness take the flaws of human nature into account, are pretty much blank slates where the right right media programming can shape people into argued in that book that all of these particular different visions of human nature. had, in addition to the debates we just mentioned, Larry Summers, the president of Harvard, and even suggested there may be innate differences M y question is, subjects, third rail kinds of issues -- what in the field or are interested in these but for their career? because many topics in psychology touch on is what everyone's interested in. There aren't -- so, if you're a mycologist, you have I would say, first of all, choose your controversies at once. Pick a topic in which there are a as possible. Don't take outrageous opinions them in a way that is not deliberately inflammatory, shows how they don't necessarily lead to the you start talking about it. there. it's not a system that anyone I think could environment does serve a purpose and there's would not have written on all the topics that Sally Satel: So, tenure's a good institution Angels of Our Nature, one of the sections we've made great strides. Slavery is clearly a thing of the past, women's rights are flourishing, animal cruelty much less of a problem than it was years and to write to update to Better Angels in 100 years, years and think, &quot;Oh my gosh, we did those Steven Pinker: Yeah. I suspect that nuclear something particularly mad about nuclear weapons, an all-out invasion and even then they're against actually using them, so that's how Falklands knowing that Britain was not actually Aires a radioactive crater over the Falklands, theorists said they shouldn't do, a non-nuclear Since they are almost by definition unthinkably die, which is what should not happen in a don't think that they deserve responsibility war. There is a coherent, non-utopian, non-romantic they might be eliminated. President Obama which is one of the reasons he won the Nobel headaches like Putin and the Middle East and But in 100 years, it's quite possible that nuclear grandchildren will be shaking their heads Other things - certainly many factory The incarceration of people for non-violent starting to see a tipping point. Then of course as the toleration of violence against women in jail for free speech where the advanced and there's still a lot of room for the rest Sally Satel: Right. I hope you're right. We'll I'm quoting you here, Steven. You said that life. In one direction, it looks to the biological evolution. But on the other, it looks to the So, do you think that psychology programs fields? That's part one of my question. And -- if they're doing it enough, are they able that with respect to the work of Jonathan notable liberal slant in the membership of Steven Pinker: Yeah. I don't think psychology too important a topic to be left to psychologists, huge amounts of insight particularly when that have to come from other disciplines. language without knowing linguistic theory. without knowing something about computer vision. game theory and evolutionary theory. So, I recount the history of &quot;p is less than 0.05&quot; often from other fields. of much of psychology is an impediment to hypothesis that are simply not on the table to prejudge whether any of those hypotheses them, how do you know whether they're true Just to give you an example, an op-ed in The ago, a column actually, on a finding relating poorer neighborhoods have thinner cerebral shows the effects of plasticity, how a deprived maybe that's true. But the G word wasn't even that people vary because of their genome and know from twin studies that in fact there Whether that's the cause of the socio-economic look at both heritability and stimulation if you take one potential factor and you don't about it. And I think that's just one of many and their collaborators I think correctly article that has retarded the progress of Sally Satel: Do you see any change over the proportion of -- I think it is improving. That -- just looking for example, they now tend to include a respectful comes to explaining intelligence and psychological I grew up with. Likewise, the role of evolution to be in the curriculum which was not true Sally Satel: That's encouraging. Well, about I did not mention that in your introduction. students who are about to become teachers? that later today, I'm giving the David Myers going to concentrate in that lecture on writing, about. But actually the psychology of writing and that what makes a good writer often makes out two principles: one of them is concreteness a subject, you tend to think about it more concrete sensory details that the human mind really about a stimulus instead of a bunny rabbit of your heart rate goes up. A lot of opaque in favor of abstraction and a lot of I think not because people are trying to sound highfalutin it's the natural psychological response to and bigger and more and more abstract chunks of physical events in order to understand The other is being aware of a phenomenon that but my favorite name for it comes from an The difficulty that we have in imagining what know. And in psychology it's also called mind bias, egocentrism, many different forms of apt to project our own state of knowledge on why our questions are interesting, what that they're second nature, and we forget just haven't gone through the same history the beginning and have concepts explained, So, overcoming the curse of knowledge. areas in which psychological science makes that the traditional advice of how to overcome put yourself in the other guy's shoes and doesn't work very well because, for one thing, the curse of knowledge where you're not even definition and just trying harder isn't enough. manuscript to other people in the case of that what's obvious to you isn't obvious to the kind of feedback that you get from constant are teachers know that when you get assignments and incomplete the level of understanding but because you, the teacher, have failed you take for granted but that they have no Sally Satel: I know. That's a horrible feeling of knowledge is when you're giving your talk Steven Pinker: Yes. journals anymore or is that a thing of the Steven Pinker: Oh, yes. Yes. I still go through number three and all of that. Yeah. know these things get extremely complicated, Steven Pinker: A major one was a paper in published by the association whose name may and coordination, I'm very excited about this. everyone knowing something and everyone knowing that you know that I know that you know that some technical analysis in economics and game little in psychology. But I think it's a profound I think we have a sensitivity to the difference We see it in idioms like &quot;the elephant in and metaphors like, &quot;it's out there, you can't our social relationships via common knowledge, that I know that you know,&quot; or I'm your superior partner or romantic partner because of this life such as innuendo, taboo, euphemism, double while preventing it from becoming common knowledge, and hinting at it by innuendo even when it's you like to come up and see my etchings&quot; and even when no adult can fail to understand such a psychological difference? Because with whether the other person knows that you know a common knowledge generator. phenomenon, most of which deal with the problem optimal behavior for you depends on what the each of which could benefit you, but as long of a focus in the evolution of social behavior to you at a cost to myself, that we've lost social behavior -- namely, coordination or mutualism benefits me at the same time: if we both drive file formats in exchanging documents, if we associates but not mix them. coordination for mutual benefit to happen. that are governed by our sensitivity to &quot;I and in this paper we have some pilot experiments to common knowledge when making risky decisions people. Steven Pinker: Coordination and Common Knowledge. cute title. Sometimes when -- in The Room" or "Don't Go There" or Sally Satel: Yeah, "Don't Go There," I Steven Pinker: Yeah. there was a book that came out last year called pronounce -- William Deresiewicz? Sally Satel: Deresiewicz. Okay. And basically and how conformists they were and how they're or analysis. But you wrote an article, I think view, and it seemed that you were kind of Can you say a little bit more about that? extended character assassination of Ivy League unwarranted. I think they're not, as he put and I quote. They're very fine, generous, really the crux of the article. The crux was that both Deresiewicz and I share, which is are in many ways bizarre, that is you think, at Harvard. There must be such brilliant, A lot of them were chosen because they were the bassoon and they edited the school newspaper and they came from rural Wyoming, we need of them were chosen for intellectual merit treat, in many of the Ivy Leagues they treat treat academics kind of the way you might like one of a huge number of options and not And a lot of they've had at Harvard is singing in the a what about us, professors,&quot; and of course, And the priorities of the Ivy Leagues I think of course, they can get away with it because lot of financial firms and tech companies as a criteria for hiring. admissions criterion and as a hiring criterion system. And we tend to forget there's so much a highly progressive indeed left liberal movement base advancement on raw talent and achievement, measures, not necessarily the tests we have as psychologists we know that clinical subjective as more actuarial statistical, data-driven of the article, to tie it back to psychology. Let me ask you about photography. I know that's book in your future or a more substantive Steven Pinker: At any one time, I have like or might not write at some time in the future, than nerdy interest in photography with my the photographic mind, the psychology of photography aesthetics, some of the philosophical questions representation, all the more poignant in an I'm sometimes deterred from doing that by I can just kind of get into a flow without And if I suddenly merge that private zone academic disputation, then I might kind of So, I have second thoughts. nature photography? photography, anything that's interesting to Sally Satel: And what's your current project? is my main research activity, although I've expression, kind of a paper on what angry on critical periods in second-language acquisition I'm pondering a kind of a short manifesto by data showing how much improvement there in violence which I have written about, but flourishing, that we're living longer, fewer more people are going to school, people are that many people in the world are unaware the growth of science reason and humanistic Sally Satel: Can you give us one example that aware that violence declined, I know that. not aware that homicide, rape, child abuse, opposed to driven by the availability heuristic, graphs all go down. But what I didn't spell which is I think worth further explanation else that can go wrong in life that has decreased, and ignorance, and that again as psychologists are far too driven by anecdotes stoked by News is about stuff that happens, not about go wrong than can go right, and so events-driven news -- will distort our appreciation of the better and better at reporting the news worldwide, to hell whereas -- and it's only when you survive the first year of life, how many kids are getting better. And if twice as many kids there's never any Thursday in which that's in childbirth, if fewer people get malaria, you can click on unless you follow the trends the state of the world, and I think that deserves Sally Satel: Thank you. And actually my last Steven Pinker: I do think, just to repeat too important to be left to psychologists, Societies and political systems people negotiating agreements to co-exist products of human psychological faculties, or painting to visual perception, poetry and they're driven by our social psychology. And where our psychology came from unless you genetics, evolution and the laws governing computation, game theory, information theory, the human mind requires being interested in what's going to advance our understanding Sally Satel: Okay. Well, thank you, Steven Steven Pinker: Thank you.