- Stacked is launching an online store where you'll be able to find a curated collection of both home and decor brands. Visit https://stackedhomes.com/store and join our mailing list for exclusive updates. - When my guy friends come over, they're actually very envious because usually this style, it's more for like bachelors or for like man cave. So I think I'm super lucky because my wife actually loves this concept. Hi, I'm Alfred. - And I'm April. - We own a Japanese restaurant called Monzen in Serangoon Gardens. - This is 1,680 square feet HDB Maisonette in Hougang. We spent almost $250,000 to $300,000. - We decided buy a HDB Maisonette because waiting for a BTO, it's a bit too long and the size is too small for our liking. - The big space give us a lot of flexibility to renovate the place as our dream home. - The neighbourhood is very quiet and we are very close to the Hougang MRT station, schools, and Punggol Park. The style that we went for is modern brutalist, it's like Bruce Wayne meets Batman. - And we use a lot of rough textures and heavy materials combined with straight lines. We are trying to make imperfection perfect when combined together. So our entryway is inspired by the Dark Knight. It's a scene where Bruce Wayne was exiting his back garage and then the lights were gradually turning off. We programed our smart home to do the opposite of that which is when we enter the house, ceiling lights will just gradually turn on when you walk into the house. - The rock textured wall actually mimics the bat cave and the shoe cabinet, it's mirror gives an illusion that has a bigger space. - The last mirror panels acts as a hidden door into the rest of the house. Beside our entryway, we have a Joker themed painting that was done by our lovely ID and it really gives incredible splash of colours to this very dark themed house. - In the pantry area you can see that I have a concrete looking espresso machine. You can't find the two that are alike. For the kitchen we actually took down the store room and hacked the existing kitchen walls for a open concept kitchen, and also we made all our drawers and cabinets seamless by using a Blum system. - The highlight of our kitchen is our 2.4 metre island which also acts as our dining table, workspace, and our favourite place to host our family and friends. My husband likes to cook and I love to bake, so it also acts as a prep table, and then because we made it at a height where it is comfortable for us to like prep when we are standing up as well. Because we are restaurant owners, we know how easy it is to clean a stainless steel countertop. So that is the material that we used for our island. - Because we are couch potatoes we actually love the movie theatre experience. We have a reclining couch that we actually source for a very long time to get the gold class feel. - Also, we programme our smart home with a single command to dim almost all lights and close our curtains for us. - Because we hacked down our store room we have to compensate by building more carpentry for storage. - We do not want our cabinets to look too typical. We laminated it with fluted panels. It also acts as like hidden doors and you can't really see that it is a cabinet and it is big enough for us to put a lot of things and it spans across the length of our living room. We enclosed the entire balcony with full-length windows so that we do not sacrifice the high ceiling that the HDB maisonette provides us with. We built a simple seating beside the stairs to act as a cosy corner for us to read, have a glass of wine, or have a private conversation. - The wall leading up to the second storey is actually inspired by Tadao Ando's concrete slab Our textured paint specialist actually hand plastered every single slab leading up to the second level ceiling. - The master bedroom was created by combining 2 common bedrooms into one. We wanted to incorporate the materials used on the first floor into our bedhead design. We used the rock textured walls that was used in the entryway, and also the fluted panels to create the bedhead. - The original second level toilet was a common toilet so we sealed the entrance and created a en suite for our master bedroom. - We were a little adventurous and created glass walls instead of concrete walls. - Living in a dark themed home makes the two of us want to stay home all the time. The design is timeless and cosy. Even though it's dark themed, we have enough windows at both ends of our living room to brighten up the area, and at night we have like cove lighting to set up like the mood to let us unwind after a long day.