If you think artists and creative people they can. I'm going to share with you the eight ways and have more money left over to go The first way I make money with my art jewelry business. I started Tiny Hands in 2006, so Generally I make selling this jewelry Between the two, most of my sales I know it sounds crazy I have a jewelry shop online, it's just a hobby shop on Etsy But it's like, no. I'm making a my jewelry. This was my first endeavor into And when I started, I didn't know anything And frankly, I was still learning so much In fact, when I started, I was making all sorts of things I made handbound journals I made beaded jewelry from projects I learned after attending my first jewelry And when I discovered polymer clay, like video game items, animals, stars. I didn't hone in on just food a few years later. So it took me years The first three years was definitely but I was having so much fun proud of the things that I made. forums and on message boards, These days we have things like Reddit the same thing. And I would share my work Some of them would show an interest So over the years I learned side of things and got really I also have another shop I started in 2019 where we sell personalized Everything is digital and then we use print-on-demand services the actual physical products for us, such And then they handle the printing straight to the customer for us. For the last year, we made a $508,000 So my husband runs and manages He took over running it a few years ago like one of his board of directors. The story behind the shop I had always wanted to have a personalized People are always shopping for anything So it was the fall of 2019 for a couple of years It took a lot of manpower to get it going. So it was a slow start. And in the meantime, I wanted to show him how he could make But he was resistant to it because So the holiday season So I rushed to set up the shop He didn't know anything about how to start an online shop, He did influencer outreach. He did product description writing, I design, and came up with the product ideas And the year after that was 2020 in that first full year of business, It was mostly just us fulfilling orders, and eventually we built up a team But for several years I would because we were just getting that our team couldn't keep up. Now this business has kind of matured a bit and my husband is taking a more hands off approach to focus back on And I'm taking on a more particularly with the marketing Another way I make money through So I started Creative Hive in 2014 what I learn from my own businesses start and grow their own online stores For last year, this business made from selling a larger program Selling courses and coaching because the market for selling information specifically on how to make money However, it is also super competitive because it takes a lot of trust building A lot of people have had negative experiences with so-called coaches so people are naturally a bit more who are also coaches. This business takes up most of my time, we have, because I have to constantly whether that's for this like with this video or if it's for an email, While I know there's courses or turning to coaching I think you have to really love teaching you're likely going to create And if your product isn't good get results, then it's hard to have long It's not passive income the way a lot of It is highly scalable in that to get one student is not too different But don't forget that to answer questions, coach and be there for them. Okay. Another way I make money online through my creativity Yes, a big chunk of my income and having the diversity but also help stabilize So I started The Bright Jewel I source the jewelry components primarily Alibaba, This line is definitely not nearly as but it still fulfills a creative Coming up with the designs, curating the product line, even taking All of that to me is super creative work. This is the smallest business of the four. It's only made several But to be fair, So when I make sales, and it takes me like 5 minutes This shop's is actually picking up just invested it in a huge box There's so pretty and I'm so proud of them to pause here and run A few moments later. Oh my god, here. Isn't that so pretty and it's got the gold Ooh. I feel like such a big business girl Okay. Now, related to I do also make some revenue through I started running ads only pretty recently and frankly, I was actually really afraid angry for turning on monetization, It seems for the most part and they're familiar So finally I did it and it now generates a consistent $700 I, of course, have to work and to get as many views as possible, Researching video ideas, what to say in each video, then and then promoting videos later on It's a lot of work to do. Thankfully, I have a team that helps me but being a content creator is definitely Each video takes an average of 10 and I think that's on the short I know other YouTube creators It can easily be a full time job. I think being a creator if you have something to you're not afraid to voice your opinions I had a lot of trouble You can see some of my earlier videos. I had to script everything And back then, I was too scared to say things that people So another thing I do with my polymer Now, I consider this than just having a Shopify or Etsy store Selling wholesale is selling products lower price than your So these stores then resell your products I used to do wholesale a lot At one point I had a sales who would take my jewelry in their cars and drive from store to store I had done trade shows which are like craft shows, So the people shopping there are shopping for products At the height of my wholesale business, across the United States. But because my jewelry is scented that most people don't even know it was hard for retailers to sell them. So it's not the perfect product I scaled everything down. I fired my sales reps, and now when I do wholesale, I definitely don't make as much money then, but at the same time, Plus, the few retailers that I love working with Instead they find me I'm already doing. So it's making sales without any If you're interested in doing wholesale for yourself, definitely It's a wholesale marketplace where A few of my core students use Faire.com with some really great success. I also make money through acting. Now I know some of you might be but it's called performing arts So I've been pursuing acting and the more I learned about acting I'm reinforced in thinking When I don't know anything about acting. I used to think acting was imitation, may think that, but knowing what I know It's expressing your creativity like a painter, using a paintbrush Another misconception people make about And I'm here to say that unless who are A-list celebrities, Many working actors the majority of actors have second I am so proud I have made over $50,000 for my acting and TV show work, as well as residuals, you get when shows are on on through like international platforms In a sense, it's because I may get paid $1,000 to be on set for one day, on over time in residual checks Speaking of residuals, I also make money The most notable one was in 2016. I taught several highly produced courses It was such a cool experience. I work with their people They fool me out into San Francisco and I had a live audience, audience as well as They put me up in a hotel, paid for my It was all just so cool. And this happened really early on and I got so many of my earlier through Creative Live. Showing people that really helped build trust with people And it was also really great of my ideal customers. It's been a while now but the way it works is I get paid based on how many people bought I've been paid in commissions for teaching but since it has been a while, That's another example of doing work once and then getting paid over just like with acting. Every now and then I would also get paid I used to do this a lot more, because it involves a lot of time find accommodation and all of that, often so it's just not as worth it anymore. We also invest our money We use Betterment and our money although at a much slower rate than all of I'm all for creating new diversified I think this is so important. And 99.9% of creatives person has diversity in That way we're spreading the risk, right? If one thing doesn't make money, all of these other ways to make money But of course, these income streams Some take months, if not years. Starting a business can be fast definitely my wheelhouse, And I'm always looking for Moving forward, I'm also working on writing so when that happens, I know a lot of creators also do affiliate That's something I never really got into. I get so many emails from brands wanting to sponsor a video But if I haven't used a product myself, recommending it. And the trust that I've built with than a few hundred bucks. So that's a big reason Previously, when my businesses were still babies, That really helped wasn't making that much money yet I always say there's no shame or having a part-time job to allow you