(gentle music) (upbeat music) - All right, kids. Time to tidy up and get back to class. Don't forget your books that you checked out from Mrs. Jenkins. Okay, bye, Matt. Bye Jackson, Myla. Bye, Myla. What's wrong? - Bryson won't let me - Why not? - I don't know, he's mean. - Maybe he's just having a bad day. Have you ever had a bad day that made you cranky with others? - My mom's says that I do. - Well, maybe Bryson just Why don't you go ask Tristan - But they always play soccer and sometimes my leg hurts when I run. - Mine too. But maybe you can try and you could always take a break Okay. - Okay, thanks Miss Ashlyn. - Mark and Bryson not getting along again? - Yep. - Thanks for handling that today. - Sure, all the reading charts are copied. I put them in the homework - Perfect, time for you to go, right? - Yeah, see you tomorrow. - Thanks. You could say that I was lost I wandered down an empty broken road No idea where my life Just had to - The classroom is its own community. It's your domain, but also your students'. How can we foster that sense of community to be a constructive place of learning? Let's discuss the case Out of the dark Try as they might you You started a flame - Your expenses and the bad your profits, but the good news is, taxes. We're not slowing down tonight Chasing dreams with Into the sun and out of the dark Try as I might - Be back after my next class. (door whirring) - Math has to be the priority. - Not if I can help it. - It comes down to literacy. Without it, the student's - True, by 45%. See how the math matters. - Yeah, don't get him over picture books. Tonight Whoa, chasing dreams with - Okay, Miller's taxes are done. - Good, good. How are the Ramsey returns going? - I just finished entering all They are missing a 1099 from I put a note in their file. (person laughing) - You are moving so quickly. I don't know how you do it with everything you're juggling, you're leaving me in the dust. - Oh, Mr. Henry, you keep up just fine. Besides, I feel like this - That's because all of my clients are getting old like me. (person laughing) And the younger generation don't come looking for an expiring accountant - You are not expiring. - But the day is, you should go home and - I wish, too much homework. - Kids are gonna be lucky to but I sure will miss you - Don't worry, there's still (light clicking) Have a good night. - You too. (gentle music) (door banging) (objects whirring) (door knocking) (door whirring) - Miriam, what are you doing here? - My size seven Jimmy Choo shoebox is bigger than this place. - It's enough for me. Can I get you something to drink? - Oh, something bottled and sparkling. - I have tap water. - Ew, then what did you offer? - Did you need something? - I'm getting married. - Congratulations. - I need you to come - It's next week. That's kind of quick, isn't it? - We've been engaged for months. Didn't you know? - You never call or text, so no. - Sure I do. - No, that's me calling you to wish you a happy - Well, anyway, pack a - What, tomorrow? - We're having a destination Bruce is renting a beautiful villa so our families can spend time together. So you'll come. - I have my classes and I'm Plus I have work. I can't afford a trip to the Caribbean or anywhere else for that matter. - Stop complaining, think - You're not listening. I don't have time for a vacation. - But you're family. - Since when? - You're being dramatic. - Miriam, you may have married my father, but you have never treated me like family. - After your father died, I did the best I could as a widow with two children and you. - Still, I can't drop everything for this. Do you know how much so I'm able to afford. - What if I paid for your tuition? Talk to your professors or whatever, arrange it so you can take the time off. And I will give you the money - Why do you need me to go? I mean, I didn't even know - Bruce is a widower. We found common ground You came up as we shared So naturally he wants you Besides, it'll look Ashlyn, wouldn't your father Wouldn't he want you (upbeat music) - When does the flight leave? - [Miriam] This is Miriam Vanderbilt, please leave me your information so I can return your call, ciao. - Miriam, I'm here. But I didn't see you or I'm not sure where to go. (phone buzzing) I just got your message with the address. I guess I'll meet you there. - Thank you. (car engine whirring) - About time you showed up. - Hello Fiona. - Come on. (door banging) Beautiful, isn't it? Now, don't get all starry-eyed. Mom doesn't want you to embarrass her. - She's the one that asked me to come. - Well, I'm planning it - You are? - It's my job, wedding planner. - I thought you were a fashion buyer. (person sighing) - Didn't work out. - I didn't think you So how long have you been here? - About an hour or so. - I didn't see you on the flight. - Mom, Jerry and I flew first class. - Of course. - Hey, how did you like your seat though? Picked it out myself. - Yeah, yeah. Being by the bathroom in the seat that doesn't (footsteps walking) - Oh, there you are Ashlyn. - What took you so long? - I didn't know where to go and - You were left at the airport. - Our taxi was full. (person laughing) Ashlyn was a dear to come after us, especially since she knew - Well, I'm so glad we're all here. Ashlyn, I'm Bruce. It's very nice to finally meet. I've heard great things about you. - Oh, thank you. It's wonderful to meet you too. And congratulations on the engagement. - My son Noah is grilling out back, but you should come meet him. - Sure. - But maybe Ashlyn should Jerry, show her to her room. - Good idea. You come on out after you've And I'm gonna go check and make sure he doesn't burn the meat. (person laughing) - Thanks. - Help her with her backs Jerry. (footsteps walking) - Hurry up Ash. Mom thought you'd feel - Thanks, how you been? - Busy. - Must be sports season. - It always is somewhere. - How much are you betting now? - None of your business. And stop with that judgy tone of yours. And if anyone asks, I'm - That sounds official. - I make more than I lose. - Sure you do. - Mom's fine with it. - And Bruce. - Bruce is proud I'm - You misspelled statistician. - Dinner will be ready soon and the table needs to be set, get to it. (gentle music) (person sighing) (food sizzling) (person screaming) - It's cold. - Oh shush. - That one needs to be turned. - You second guessing my grilling? - Never. - Ah, sure you're not. I'll tell you what, I'll leave you to turn and I'll go grab a platter. - All right. (gentle music) - Oh. (cutlery whirring) Hi. - Sorry, hi. - I'm Noah. - Ashlyn. - Welcome. - Thanks. Do you know which table I should set? - I'm guessing the one on the patio. - Thanks. - Do you want some help? - Oh, no, that's okay, I can. - Here. (glasses clinking) - So you're Miriam's other daughter. - Stepdaughter. - I don't know if I'll get used to that when my dad gets remarried, - You're an adult, shouldn't - I guess you're right. She and your dad got married - Yeah, yeah. I was nine. - Wow, that's tough. I mean, sorry. Miriam told me he passed - Yeah, yeah, it was a hard time. - At least thankfully he had Miriam. - Yeah. (gentle music) What about your mom? - She passed away a few years ago. My dad has realized he so here we are. - You and your dad close? - Yeah, I was even gonna go work for him, but decided I should try at least at first. - What do you do? - I work for an engineering firm. - Like building machines or? - Architectural. - That sounds neat. - It is. I almost didn't study it and calculations, but stuck with it. - Good for you, I would've avoided anything that involves too much math. - So what do you do? - Oh I work for an accountant. - And that's not math. - No, it's a tax accountant. I mostly record numbers, data. It's nothing I really have to stew over. - You think you're being modest? - That's our Ashlyn, ever so modest. Noah, your father's - Oh, right. I'll be right back. - No rush, we'll finish up here. You forgot the silverware. (gentle music) - That was perfect. - Noah, I'm so impressed. You'll have to give me your - Sure. - Like she ever cooks. (person laughing) - Look, I know I've said it before, but I am so glad we're all here. - I wish we could relax, but - The wedding plans. - Ah, yes. - Oh don't begrudge me - Oh honey, course not. - How did you two meet? - They worked together. - I never heard the full story. - I've told it so many times. I thought for sure you'd heard it. Well, Bruce develops real estate and I decorated the model homes. - She has quite the eye. - Of course I do, I picked you, didn't I? - Yes you did. I started a construction Sometime later I got into development. Mostly residential homes. There was this home builders convention. I was drumming up business - It took me decorating three homes before he had the nerve to ask me out. - Come on, go easy on me. You can be quite intimidating. - Where are you getting married? - A little church I picked out nearby. It is the cutest thing. - We'll have to stop by and make sure everything is in order. - When is it? Next week, Thursday? - It's next Friday. - Oh, Ashlyn has been so It's kept her whole focus. She's hardly thought about the wedding. - You're going to school - Yes. - Oh yes, of course - That sounds like a lot, no wonder we haven't seen - My loss. - We'll make up for it now, won't we? - Exactly as planned, for (upbeat music) - Bruce asked me to come up with some way for us to get to know each other better. So I thought of this game. It's all about your favorite things. - So what do we do? - Okay, you pick a card and you read it. Favorite food, and then as to what my favorite food is. Whoever gets it wins And if no one gets it, I win the round. - Wonderful idea Fiona. Jerry, why don't you go first? - Fine, favorite sport? - Oh that's a good one for you. - Basketball. - Baseball. - Going with basketball too. - Football. - That's it. - I got it first. Okay, my turn, favorite holiday. - Christmas. - Thanksgiving. - Christmas. - It's Halloween. She likes to dress up. - Yeah. - Okay. (person sighing) Let's see. Favorite hobby that you rarely get to do? Okay, okay, got it. - Painting. - Reading. - Okay, Miriam, you've got this. - Let me think. Something you like, but rarely do. Crocheting. You used to love it, but - No, I don't know how to crochet. (person laughing) - I thought I'd get it for sure. - Noah? Something you like, but rarely do. I know what mine would be so I'll go with that for a - Yes, actually. - Really? - Yeah, my dad used to take me all the time when I was little. - I fell in love with fly fishing, but it's hard to find the time. - I know what you mean. - Okay, moving on. Noah, your turn. - Sure, favorite song? - Oh, Richard Marks. &quot;I'll Be Eight Here Waiting For You&quot;. - No, that is very specific though. And old. Anyone else? They'll never get it. Go ahead dad. - Clair de Lune, your mother's favorite. She used to play down the piano. - How sweet. (gentle music) (person typing) (birds chirping) - I would've thought you'd be tired, with all the traveling. - Maybe, but I have - Did your professors give you - Yeah, especially since - It did? - It snuck up on me. - So what are you studying? - Education, I also have an internship at an elementary school right now. - Wow, that's a lot. Anything I can do to help out? - No, but thanks. - I'm not just asking to be polite. Besides, the sooner you the sooner you can enjoy this trip. - Well, I do have a test when I get back, I keep pushing it aside. - Want me to quiz you? - Sure. Here are a few things I'm pretty sure we'll be on the test. - Okay. (person laughing) Still strange, isn't it? - Yeah, it's a side of her - Has been fun giving my (person laughing) Okay, let's see, first question. - We'll have about 50 guests, - Plenty of space. - Is it too much space? It's gonna look like no one came. (person hushing) - I think it's just the right size. Oh mom, the decorator - Sweetheart, it's due tomorrow. - Yes, I'll take care of it. Hey, what do you think? It's nice, good spot for it. Ashlyn, do you like it? - I do, it reminds me of the church my dad and Miriam got married in. - Did the priest have a problem with birds being released indoors? - I've almost got the birds reserved. - I was thinking, let's save those for when we - But it's so much more - But they're birds inside a church. Think of the mess. - I've always wanted to And here's my last chance. I wonder if you could persuade the priest, but if you think it's too much, - I'll think of something and try my best. - Thank you. (gentle music) (camera clicking) You are not being very nice. - What do you mean? - I don't want Bruce feeling like you're against this wedding. - I'm not. - Then stop being so morose. Cheer up, he's a good man. - I think so too. - Good, then don't ruin this for me. - Hey everyone, we better hurry. I have one more stop planned for us. - Really? Bruce, what do you have up your sleeve? - Birds? - Yeah, I thought it'd - Fiona loves animals. Let's go. (birds chirping) Oh, great idea Bruce. - Yeah, great. - Look at that one right there. - Ah, nice. - There you go. - Thank you so much. - You are welcome. - All right everybody, why don't we share? Here you go. - Here Noah. I'll share with you. - Oh, thanks. Do you want to just hold it yourself or? - This is fine. What is this? - Bird feed. (birds flapping) - My turn. - Chatty bunch, aren't they? - Yeah, they're a bit noisy. All we have to do now is do Oh, there we go. Yes, come on. - Is it attacking me? - Oh no, just come over here. - Look, it's just a bird. It's okay. Look, tell you what, you just stay with us and we will shield you, okay. (birds chirping) (gentle music) - Here, try this. It's only half full now but still be enough to - Thank you. - You're welcome. - Maybe they're not hungry? - No, just give it a minute. I bet they'll come eventually. Oh, there you go. Here, hang on, take a look. - Oh, that is so cool. Thank you. - You're welcome. - Here, your turn next. - Thank you. Do you know the names of any of these? - No, I'm not a bird - Which one's your favorite? - There. - Oh yeah, I can see why, have blue colors, beautiful. - Noah dear, Fiona wondered if you could show her with a little more courage. - Oh, sure. (car door banging) - [Speaker] Any good games on? - [Speaker 2] Football. - [Speaker] Excellent. - You need to watch yourself. - Why? - You're here to be a part of the family. But don't get too comfortable, - If you're concerned about Noah, it should be because of Fiona's behavior. - Don't put her down. - I'm not, it was an observation. - You're here to be smiling and silent. - You insisted I come. - Just think about what's at stake. I thought I already had everything when I married your father, I wanna be happy again All I ask is that you don't And for that, you get and a week of family fun, I mean, really, you should be thanking me. (footsteps walking) (water flowing) - Thanks. - Oh, Ashlyn, there you are. I was hoping to have a word with you. - Oh, I'm sorry. I just helped myself, is that okay? - Oh, of course it is. That's not what I wanted to talk about. Have a seat. I just wanted to make sure - With? - Me marrying Miriam. - Oh. - I just worried, I didn't want this to be - It's not. - Miriam shared with me how and Fiona and Jerry too. And how she's afraid she didn't give you in particular everything you deserved. - She said that? - Yeah, look, I can only imagine how hard it was on you losing one parent and then losing your father. And then here comes the replacement. And even if it is years later, please whatever you're feeling, it's okay. And if you wanna talk, I'm here. - Thanks. That's unexpected, but As long as you're both happy, I'm happy. - Good. (upbeat music) - Hurry everyone, the (door whirring) - Where are the kids? That sounded strange. - They're putting on their shoes. - Oh, thanks Fiona. Are you excited? - Do you blame me? You only get married once, - You ready? - Yeah. - Where's Ashlyn? - Studying. Let's not disturb her, she's so stressed. - Then she needs a break. I'm gonna go ask just in case. Ah, there you are. Whoa, this room is cozy. Is it one of the housekeeper rooms? - I don't know. - You know there's another room in the house that's available, right? - There is? - Yeah, by Fiona's room. - Oh, well I am all unpacked It's fine. - All right. Well we're leaving for the cake place. - The bakery? - Yes, that. The wedding bakery or Come on, everyone's in - Oh, okay. - Oh, they give samples too. - [Miriam] Oh, this looks delicious. - Good, good, get me another one. - New sweetheart. - Good flavor, little too sweet though. - I think we need something original. Something spectacular. - I hear orange chocolate is in. - Ew, you might as well make a (person laughing) - What about something classic like lemon? Light, flavorful. - That's a lovely suggestion. - She hates it. - If it were my wedding, I think fruit would be a great idea. I love lemon Noah. - That's good. - [Bruce] What about pistachio? - Not by itself though, they need something to spruce it up. - May I suggest cherry hazelnut? - Oh. - And then, I don't know what this is. If you wanna go. - [Bruce] Oh, I don't think we have to. - [Miriam] I think this one. - Wish this had more frosting. - Really? - Yeah, I prefer a one-to-one - That sounds. - Delicious. You can't taste a cake - Well that's why you also have fillings. - That part sounds good. - What flavors do you - That basic, vanilla then, because you can pair it - Yeah, like what? - Passion fruit. - Oh, fancy. - I first discovered it - In that case, you should try - Okay, thanks. - That sounds delicious. - Wow, okay. Yeah, I'm usually more of a chocolate guy. This is amazing, here. (person laughing) - Oh wow, sorry. - Here, try it. - Okay. - Yeah, yeah, that's really good. - Good. - Could I get this in a to-go box? (birds chirping) - Oh, this won't do, Ashlyn, clean out the pool, will you? I need to work off all that cake. - Isn't there a? - There should be one of Find it, will you? - Hey guys, tomorrow I was It's supposed to be great here. And it seems we have - That sounds awesome. Maybe we'll catch something - Bruce, you know I'm not one for fishing. - I know, I keep hoping. What about you Jerry? Jerry. - What? - Will you join us tomorrow, fishing? - Oh, sure. - Great will Fiona wanna join us? - Fiona takes after me, - Ashlyn, you're in, right? - Sure, I'd love to go. - So four of us, great. I'll call the charter, let them know. - Well come on, the - Okay. - Why are you all going fishing tomorrow? - Bruce's idea. - [Fiona] I wanna go. - No you don't. - Well, I don't wanna be left behind. I'm the wedding planner anyway, - Just because you're the wedding planner doesn't mean you have a say in everything we do - Why did it have to be fishing? - Some tradition of his. - Gross. - Then stay. - Why didn't you convince Water skiing, snorkeling. - Would you stop your yammering? I'm busy. - What's with you? - It hasn't been a good day for me. - Like it matters. - What would you know? I'm trying to accomplish something here. - Whatever, sports are dumb anyway. - Fishing's a sport. - Hardly. - Go bug mom, I'm sure she'll take you (footsteps walking) (upbeat music) (water whirring) - Typical. - No signal? - So much from my international plan. - Probably too far out - Lame. - How much did you lose? - How do you know I lost? - Just a guess. - Doesn't matter. I'll win it back in some - So, what do you think - It's been good. - All right, spit it out. I know you had your - It's the risk of awkward well that paired with the knowledge we're gonna be bound with the family. - Thought you liked Miriam. - I do, she seems nice, but my only interactions with her have been a dinner or a - Are you all right with her? - Yeah, yeah. - As long as I don't have to call her mom. - And the others? - That's where the awkward comes from. My future siblings or I'm step siblings. - Everyone takes some getting used to. - At least we're not growing up together and sharing the same house I don't think I can - She is character. - Jerry seems a little consumed. He's hard to figure out. Ashlyn's nice, sharp. - Easy to see they're - She has a lot more - I'm glad you're giving (rod whirring) Nice cast, Ashlyn. - Thanks. - You mentioned you used to - Yeah, yeah, he used to take us to a lake not too far from our house. Little different from Just the two of us in a cooler filled with soda and - What did you catch? - Carp, Trout here and - Which do you like - I'll let you know - I like your confidence. - Jerry, you fish much? - A few times. Fishing competitions. - Deep sea? (person burping) - Not like this. (upbeat music) - A little tight still here, but divine. - I swear the seamstress tucked this in instead of letting it out. (person sighing) This lighting makes me look so pale. - Oh, shush, you're fine. - You look pretty, mom. - Thank you. Oh, just a few more days. Can barely wait, our new life. - Hey mom, Bruce and Noah - Oh yes, I think so. - So we'll be seeing him a lot. - Noah, yes, probably. - Good. (person laughing) - Do you have a crush already? - He's gorgeous, you can't - I suppose not. I'm not sure Noah will see you as more than a sibling for a while. - Why not? - Well, this is all new for him, as it is for you, with the wedding, no one is thinking of anything else. Give it time. - I'm trying but Ashlyn - Does she? - They're out fishing - With Bruce and Jerry, - I don't know what - One thing about Ashlyn is she's easy to overlook. Besides, she has her classes Keep her focused on that and she won't give Noah any encouragement. (upbeat music) (rod whirring) - Jerry, you've got something. - Oh, let's see, Jerry the pole. - You okay? - I don't feel so good. - Did you take some motion sickness pills? - No. - Here, maybe this will help. - If I throw up, I'm aiming at you. - Charming. - Here, look, take some sips. Not too much all at once. All right, let's bring in this fish. Oh yeah, Noah, you want to do the honors? - What about Ashlyn? - What? - Here, reel in the fish, will you? - Okay, sure. Oh wow, oh, it's strong. - You can do this. If it's fighting you good, - I don't wanna lose it. - Even if you do, there's - Never heard that said so literally it. I wonder how big it is. - Can't see it yet. Every fish I've ever caught has felt like a 200 pound Marlon. The surface is an eight pound bass. - Oh. (person breathing) - All right, you got it. - I wonder what kind of fish it is. - I once caught a snake fish. - What? - Predator fish, breathe air. Big creepy teeth. - What did you do with it? - Well, I went to go throw it back in because there no way I was - Was it serious? - No, but it freaked me out. - Oh. - Oh, that's all right. You got it, keep going. Just keep it steady, steady. - Okay, okay. All right, I got it. All right, try to bring it in closer so I can get a better look. Oh wow. - What, is it a snake fish? - No, but it's big. - That must be why my arms are tiring up. - You got this. Look a little closer, here. There it is. - Oh, nice catch Ashlyn. - Never caught a fish that big before. - Well done. - Thanks. - It was my pole. (gentle music) (footsteps walking) - Hello? Anyone hungry? No. - You're back. - Yeah, with quite the catch. Ashlyn reeled it in. - Oh, that's wonderful. - I'll get this all cleaned up. - I'll get the grill ready. - Great. - Do we have any Pepto or something? - Oh, you certainly smell like your prey. (person laughing) - It was worth it though, right, Jerry? (person groaning) The water was pretty rough today. - I'm glad you made it back safe then. Oh, Ashlyn, why don't you go Oh, and I left my shoes for the Go get those two. - Sure, just let me get cleaned up first. - No, the shop will close - Can't you and Fiona do it? - You've had your day of fun while Fiona and I have been preparing The least you could do is (footsteps walking) (food sizzling) - Dinner's ready. - Smells wonderful. - Yeah, I'm starving. Where's Ashlyn and Jerry? - Jerry I'm afraid is concerned dinner might not agree with him yet. He's resting in his bedroom and Ashlyn is running an errand, getting him some medicine, you know? - That's nice of her. Let's wait then until she gets back. - I'll call and see - Sure. (gentle music) - Ashlyn, everything okay there? Oh, good. Well, dinner is ready, but we Are you sure? All right, we'll save you a plate. We can go ahead. - Okay, let's eat. (flies buzzing) - Dinner was delicious, Fiona, thanks. (gentle music) (cutlery whirring) No. - And I'm telling you it's a mistake. I can fund my accounts if you No, don't shut it down. This is my business, okay. That's ridiculous. I'm telling you, this and yeah, yeah, I can do that. Okay, just don't close it down, thanks. - Hey Jerry. - Hey, man, what's up? - Everything okay? - Yeah, just work, you know. No biggie, it's fine. - You wanna play a game of pool? - Maybe later. - Okay. (upbeat music) - I want tropical colors, but tasteful. - Tasteful, how big is - Smaller than mine. Maybe using some of these Ashlyn, write these down already. - Okay. - How about this one? - No. - Okay then, for my bouquet. - No, we should be matching. - Hello, you need some flowers? - Bouquets. - For a wedding. - Ah, congratulations. - Thank you. - How many? - Two bouquets. One for me, the bride and - Okay, great. Let me go see if there are some options. - Will I need one? - No, you're not a bridesmaid, are you? - I guess not. - Oh, we should get one of - Oh, and Bruce and Noah, - Is Jerry a groomsman? - I'm having him walk me down the aisle. Noah will be Bruce's groomsman. - So what am I gonna be doing? - Oh, you'll be sitting in the back for all the late comers and you'll usher them to the best seat. - Someone has to do it, Now I like these, Ashlyn, (car engine whirring) (upbeat music) - You okay? - Just fine. - A lot of fines going around today. You, Jerry. - Jerry? - He seemed a little upset earlier too. (gentle music) (waves crashing) (door whirring) (upbeat music) (paper whirring) (person laughing) (door whirring) - I don't know what's bothering Jerry. - Oh. - What's bothering you then? - It's nothing I can't handle. - Is it like guy troubles or? Yeah, sorry, felt strange (person laughing) - No, no, it's not guy troubles. I don't have anyone back home. - Oh. - Do you? - Not anymore. - But there was someone? - Yeah, she had an overseas opportunity, kind of a dream job scenario. And she left. - I'm sorry, do you miss her? - I did for a long time. She didn't really talk to me about it, said goodbye and that was it. - Oh. - Yeah, it's nice to feel loved. - There. - Presentable? - Always. (person laughing) - Oh, there you are. I was wanting to take the family How soon before you can be ready? - About 10 minutes. - Maybe a little longer for Ashlyn. I'll hurry. - Wear something nice. - I will. (gentle music) Where'd it go? (dramatic music) What? (person breathing) - Oh, new shirt, it's nice. - Oh, thanks. - Let's go. - In a minute, Ashlyn's still changing. - I can't go tonight. - Why ever not? - Something happened with my computer. My paper's gone and it's due tomorrow. - Ashlyn, I'm so sorry. - Oh yes, that is unfortunate. - You still have to eat. - He's right. Come along and we'll get - Oh, but we're celebrating. I don't want us to rush. - It's not a problem. - No, no, you shouldn't I'll be fine. - Are you sure that it's gone? - Yeah, I must have not - You should be more careful. - I can stay and help you. - No, no, you should go. You'll just be watching me type. - But you missed dinner Is there anything we can do to help? - Not that I can think of, but thank you. (water whirring) - It'll be all right. - Yeah, thanks. - Come on Noah, let's go. (gentle music) (person typing) - My dear friend had to Her husband tore his ALC or - Is that Donna? - No, Hannah. You know what this means though? - We have to revisit the seating chart. - Yes. - I can help. - Tomorrow. Let's just enjoy tonight. Speaking of. - Oh, Bruce, you didn't. - I got you a little something special. - You already did. - More of a keepsake for all the memories we'll have after we're married. But this is to help us always remember our time here together on the island. - Oh, it's beautiful. - I'm glad you like it. - Oh. (people clapping) (person laughing) Oh, come on now let's order - So, what are you getting? - I'm not sure, you. - I'm thinking a salad. Wanna share a dessert with me? - Haven't thought that far ahead. What about Ashlyn? - What about her? - What would she like? - I don't know, cup-a-soup or something. - Have we all had enough - Yes, I think so. Please start here with Miriam. - I'm still debating. - In that case, please start with Fiona and we'll have made up our minds by the time you get around the table. - I'll have the steak salad - And you? - I'll have the chicken with the pasta. Oh, and one more thing. Can I order another meal? Same thing, but if you'll - Certainly. - Thanks. (upbeat music) (person sighing) - Okay, keep going. - How's the paper coming? - Oh, hi, it's actually than it was the first time, although. - You wish you didn't no matter what. - Exactly. - Hungry? - Yes, actually. - It's nice outside right now. You want to eat out there - Sure. Thank you. This is exactly what I needed. - You're welcome. So what's this paper of yours about? - Oh, it's about child development theory intersecting with age There are a bunch of different it's probably the most technical thing I've had to write, but I hope it works. - Sounds very scientific. - Yeah, I'll be glad (gentle music) - Did you always wanna be a teacher? - No, actually I didn't for a while, but I figured it out a few years after high school. - What changed? - I ran into one of my old She helped me through some hard times. I just kept thinking that I wanna do that. Be that person for a kid who - That's very admirable. Did I tell you my mother was a teacher? - No, I didn't know that. - Music, so not quite - Was it piano? - Yeah, you remembered, that and violin. - Do you play? - A little bit of piano. I was a pretty stubborn So my mom told me I had to be taught by someone else for it to work. I think I missed out on how - Was her passing unexpected? - Yeah, I think it always is to an extent. She'd been sick for a while, but we thought she was getting better and she took a turn for the worse, all these complications, and it was over. - That sounds really hard, having that hope and then losing her. - It was. (insects chirping) - Did your dad ever think about getting married again sooner? - Maybe. There were some pretty awkward times when he started dating again. I mean, some of the (person laughing) My guess is that it wasn't the right time. He was expanding his business. Maybe it was a matter of - I always wonder about - Yeah, maybe it seems strange when we've both lost - I don't have too much life experience in love and marriage, but I hope that even we still aim to find that right person. (insects chirping) (door knocking) - Come in, what is it? - I need to talk to you. - What's wrong? - I had some bad tips - How much is it this time? - 30K. - Oh my. - Mom. - I've tried to be supportive, but at some point you have What you're doing isn't the - I can earn it back but my trading accounts were suspended. - Don't you mean gambling accounts? What do you want me to do about it? - Talk to Bruce. - Oh, Jerry, I can't do that. I won't, maybe I can lend you something. - The money was yours. - What? - The 30,000 you had me in case anything ever - And you used it as your - I'm sorry. - Sorry doesn't pay me back. - I know, but if we ask Bruce. - When, before the wedding, when he learns about your wasteful habit or after when he'll - The second one. I really am sorry. I didn't know what else to do. - You stay quiet. We just have to get through I'll tell him. (gentle music) - My paper. (objects whirring) Okay, just the last bit. (person typing) Yeah, that works. Attach file and send. - My cousin decided to come last minute so we could swap him in his - Good. Now, do you think we should increase the numbers for the catering? They always give such stingy servings and I don't want anyone to go hungry. - I think it'll be fine as is. - Maybe I should ask Fiona to - Mom, this is so much better, isn't it? - Yes, lovely. Oh, good morning, sleepy head. - Ashlyn, did you finish your paper? - Yes, all done. - That's great news. - Miriam, can I talk to you for a moment? - Of course, girl talk, I guess, well? - I was wondering what you wanted me to wear for the wedding. - It doesn't matter. Any one of your dresses will do. - I didn't bring any dresses. - Well, that was silly of you. - I figured you'd have one for me, at least to match your wedding colors. - Well, you figured wrong. Why would I squander my money like that? It's just one day. And remember, you'll be It doesn't matter what you wear. - Hang on, don't you think that you're basically excluding I mean, think about the photos. - Don't try to manipulate me. You always felt you were Why can't I have this or that? - It's not about the If you don't want me here, I'm more than happy to leave right now. I have nothing to lose. - And I don't appreciate being threatened. - It's not a threat. It's the truth, which you should be more - Try this on for truth then, you don't get a dime And of course with you leaving - That'll only hurt you more. - I've already shared with Bruce how troubled you were growing up. Who do you think he's going you got upset over And what would dear Noah think if he learned you came here (footsteps walking) - Ashlyn, mind if I tag along? My dad said, you're going into town. My earbuds died and I needed a - I have some shopping to - That's okay, I've got time. - Okay. (car door banging) - Here we are. - Great, you wanna come with me? I should be pretty quick - Oh, I don't wanna slow you down. I'll just meet you somewhere. - Okay, where will you - Just one of these clothing shops. - Okay, see you in a few minutes. (upbeat music) (gentle music) Hey, I'm back. - Great, I'm almost done. - What are you looking for? - Oh, nothing. I mean something, obviously. I'll know it when I see it. - Okay. - There, that's all I need. - Don't you wanna try it on? - I'm sure it'll fit fine. - What's the occasion anyway? - Oh, it's. - What, it not for the wedding, right? - Is it? - Sort of. - What about the bridesmaid dresses and the fittings and all that? I saw Fiona parading around - They couldn't make a dress in time. My measurements, I mean, - Well, even Jerry and and ties for the wedding. - I like this better. - Okay, well if you're gonna get a dress, can I at least suggest one Let's see here. How about this? What do you think? - Yeah. - Okay and how about this one? (person laughing) - Yeah, yeah, I like them. - You wanna try them on? - Okay, I'll be right back. Is this one fancy enough? - You're, it's beautiful on you. - So you think it's okay. - More than okay. I think it's perfect, truly. - Okay. (doors banging) Thank you for coming and for your opinion. - Anytime. - There you are. I've been looking everywhere for you Noah. - I better go hang this up so - So, tide's coming in for body surfing, you in? - Have you seen my dad? - Inside somewhere. - Great, thanks. (liquid pouring) Can I get one of those? - Sure. Need it with this heat, right? - You should try the pool. - Good idea, what a view. - Yeah. Hey, dad, there's something - What? - Have you noticed how Ashlyn is treated differently - Not really. But I think it'd be hard for me to not subconsciously favor - No, it's more than just favoring. I mean, I mean, think about it. She's given the smallest One that I think is for a caretaker, even when there's an empty, she's always the one and Fiona and even Miriam do nothing. - Noah, that's not fair. This is a vacation after all. - For everyone but Ashlyn, even the way they act around each other, some of the things they say, there's this tension and almost fear. - You sure? - Do you know where we - No. - A dress shop. Ashlyn was buying her didn't even get her something - No, I'm sure there's an explanation. Maybe we're looking at this all wrong. - I don't know how else to see it. - Is there another reason Look, I've noticed how you look at her. - So? - Is it possible that's - No. No, that's not it. - You sure, you do seem to seek her out? - Yeah, I'd like to think that no matter what I felt for her, I'd say something about what I've seen. - Noah. (waves crashing) - I saw you and Noah, where'd you go? - What do you want, Fiona? - I want you to be careful. We don't want you scaring them off. - I'm the last one who'd do that. - If you ruin this with your mom will be furious. - Thanks for the warning. Isn't there another spot on - Look, mom needs this Jerry's debts and using all her money. It's the only way. - What did you say? - Bruce can make it all go away. He'd set us up for life. And maybe that would extend to you too. So watch it. (birds chirping) - Hey. - Hi. - How was the beach? - It was sandy. - Huh, that good, huh? - Yeah, you okay? - Wanna get outta here, do something that will cheer us up. - Yes, please. You lay a soft hand Always keeping me from falling apart - Sorry, is it too windy for you? - I love it. - Yeah? - Yeah. Save me, save me Save me, save me Stay with me till I'm strong enough To start over, over Save me, save me Save me, save me You'll always be every Baby save me How do you find these places? Have you been here before? - I just did some research. I like the way that this place looked in the photos I saw online with cliffs. Maybe it's the architecture of it. - Can you really call it that - Why not? A lot of architecture's - Do you design a lot of buildings? - Not so much. Mostly make sure things are and strong enough in the designs. - So nothing falls apart. - Yep. - It's not glamorous, but - Do you ever wanna design? - Yeah, yeah. It's not my forte yet, - Well, it's good to have dreams. - I think it's cool that you do. - Yeah. - I'm so sure about - Jerry wants to be successful, which to him means being rich and Fiona, I'm not quite sure she's settled on what she wants to do in life. - So what was it like growing - Actually Vanderbilt is my last name or my dad's, Miriam always liked it. She thought it made her - Wow. Did you get along with Jerry and Fiona? - Sometimes. - What about Miriam? - There were some hard times. It was difficult, I guess. - Did you ever wish things were different? - Of course, I mean, who wouldn't? But I like to think that I'm stronger in the long run because of everything. (upbeat music) - You are. Okay, your turn to drive. - Really? (car engine whirring) (person cheering) - Oh, Jerry, we're making a nice dinner for everyone tonight. - We? - It's a way to celebrate Only two more days. - Great. - Oh, there you are. We need to go to the grocery store. - Okay. - Jerry, grab the car - Me too, what about Fiona? - She wants to spend some time with Noah. (objects whirring) (car engine whirring) - This better not take too - Let's stop pretending that's true. Ashlyn, when we get back, I need you to cook the veggies and bake the rolls and dessert, Ashlyn. - How were you ever planning when you have Jerry's gambling debt? - You were gonna pay for her tuition? - You have a lot of nerve. - You didn't answer my question. - And I don't have to. - Do you even love Bruce, or is he just a bank account to you? (car whirring) - Get out. - How could you lie to me? - I didn't. I was going to pay for your tuition. - You were? - And now? - Things change. - No, no, they're the same as always. (gentle music) (car door banging) (car engine whirring) - Can you show me how to hold this? - I already did that. - I mean, how to hit it. - I did that too. Just try your best and take a shot. - Whoops. Guess you'll have to teach me again. - [Miriam] We're back. - Need any help? - No, no. You relax, we'll take care of it all. - Is Ashlyn outside? - No. - Well, where is she? - We had a little argument. She stayed in town to cool off. - Is everything all right? - It will be. - What did you do? - Noah. - It's Ashlyn's fault, she just wants to use Bruce for his money. Mom found out and confronted her. - That doesn't sound like her. - All she cares about is finding someone to pay off her tuition. - Miriam? - I'm sorry Bruce. I thought we could keep this - Well, this is certainly unexpected. - Dad. - Why don't we just try Fiona, Jerry, come help in the kitchen. (footsteps walking) - Not now. (gentle music) (birds chirping) - Ashlyn, are you all right? - I'm fine. - Where have you been? - It doesn't matter. - Listen, while you were - What else is new? - I don't believe her, but you - I think that'll only make me more upset. - What happened? - I need to go, but thanks for caring. - Where do you think you're going? - The airport, then home. - No, you'll stay. - Why? To sell the lie that to help you pretend that you've treated me like anything close to your own child. You would've been better - Maybe I should have ordered one. You love to act like you've I don't think you realize - Lucky? I guess I have been in some ways. I left my home, my father's home, and I've made a life for myself. It's not perfect, but it's mine. And then you just had Did you only want me here so you can make me feel small again? - Oh, spare me. - I should have known better than to think you'd ever why would you ever do that of your own or my father's Now, with Jerry's gambling, you expect Bruce to bail both of you out. - We had a deal. - Which you broke. - I owe you nothing. - Your father chose me Ashlyn, that means something. - No, it doesn't. Maybe if he was still here, But the moment he was gone, - You only see your perspective. - I've tried to see yours for years and the only thing I can think of is that you just can't so you can stand a little higher. (car engine whirring) - We should talk. All this time, you've spoken of her as if she were a real daughter to you. What else was a lie? - [Miriam] Nothing, you weren't there. - I wish I had been. What's worse is you don't even see what you've done is being wrong. - Listen, everything will be just fine. I know how your dad can apologize and mom will totally forgive him. - He's not the one that - [Miriam] I'll talk to him. He can figure out another - [Bruce] Miriam, I'm not It's you and your manipulative schemes. (object whirring) - Dad? - Do you see my keys? Ashlyn went to the airport. - She did? - Let's go find her. - What are the other options How much is that? What about the later flight? - Ashlyn. - I'm so sorry, can I call you back? Thanks, Noah? - Don't go. - I don't think I can stay. - Please, let's go somewhere and talk. - I should've told you about Miriam. (gentle music) - It's your past, maybe I can at least understand why it would've been hard - Still, I shouldn't have come just for her promise of - Glad you did. Wouldn't have met you if you hadn't. That should have been my first clue. Never meeting you. Miriam always had an excuse. I'm sorry I didn't see, even Noah noticed. I just didn't want to such a different person than I thought. - What will happen now? - I don't know. It's made me doubt if but the house is paid Noah and I plan to stay I hope you'll stay too. - Thank you. - Should we head back to the villa? - Let's. - Bruce, I saw the way and how she looked at you. I've never seen her so, I - Maybe she does, but without trust, I don't think love is enough. (insects chirping) - Bruce. - I'm gonna head to bed. - Goodnight. Goodnight, Miriam. (footsteps walking) - I apologize for being so last minute, but we're gonna have to cancel. - Thanks Pastor for understanding. At least this way, you don't have to worry about Okay, bye-bye. - I appreciate it, thanks. - You two look busy. - Yeah, we've been calling people all morning to let them the guests, the caterer, - Anything I can do to help? - We've got it covered. - So where's Miriam? - Packing. (door knocking) (gentle music) - What do you want? - You're leaving. - Yes, happy? - None of this makes me happy. - Too late for take backs. - I guess so. - I need to finish packing, Our flight leaves soon. - Fine. There's a lot that neither one of us can take back or change. And even if we could, I but if you did, I'd be okay with that. I'd want to let it all go. (gentle music) (door whirring) (birds chirping) - The car's here. - Take care Noah. - You can call you know, anytime. - Oh, okay. - Bye Fiona, Jerry. - Let's go. - Well, we don't wanna be late. - Miriam. - Bye Bruce. (waves crashing) - Hey, how are you feeling? - I don't know, trying to figure that out. Don't want them to hate me, - You're too sweet to hate. You know, ever since the first day we met, I couldn't help but wanna be around you. - Me? - Look at all that you've done, all that you're working towards. You inspire me and you deserve - Thanks, that's really nice of you, but. - What? - I don't want anyone's pity. - Ashlyn, I don't feel I care about you and admire you, and I'm falling in love with you. - You are? - I be crazy not to. Is is that okay? - Yes. Yes, that's more than okay. I've never felt like I could be honest about who I am or my life, to be me without waiting Until now. - You're amazing, you know that? - So are you. (upbeat music) - Well, one benefit of the Ta-da. - Nice. - Noah, help me hand this out. - There you go. - Yes, and in this heat - Thank you. - So should we just go for it then? - Yeah, it's my cake isn't it? - Yes it is. So what are we celebrating here? - To the future, with all - I like that. - To the future. (person laughing) - That's good. Great, I'm going from (people laughing)