Good evening, everyone! It's such a pleasure to be here. This is my first time in Sweden and I'm enjoying [Laughter] But other than that, fantastic! It's so good to be at a conference about the conference. It was in 1992. There were about one hundred people there; or computer science students. Despite the fact that we were telling them believed us -- at least, no one believed me That wasn't working so well. But it taught me one thing: it taught me to Because, in fact, it did change the world. My second book is called The reason for that is because the technology transform the world in equal measure. It will also transform the internet itself. Bitcoin, an invention created on January 3rd Unleashed as an open-source project, built Run as a peer-to-peer network. Derided, laughed at, and ignored for the first But not so much anymore. People are beginning to pay attention, just Things that were previously unthinkable are People are beginning to notice that this is And what are they told? Drug dealers! Pornographers! Criminals! Guess what? That's what they said at the first conference in 1992. They were wrong then and they are wrong now. Every time you meet someone like a dentist that silly narrative. Bitcoin is a protocol, and what better stage The moment you start talking about Bitcoin a very difficult question: what is money? Most of us, from all the conversations I've have no idea what money is or how it works. It's one of those technologies that is so become completely invisible to us. In fact, we don't even need to think about In some countries, they realise that it stops things to say about what money is. What is money? In fact, you use money to get things of value in the money itself. Money isn't a construct of authority; we seem money comes from certain authoritative sources. Some guy with a crown says &quot;this is your money,&quot; That's the authority it comes from. But what if money could be created without What if money could be created simply through It turns out that what money really is, is Money is a language that human beings created As a language, it's one of the fundamental to exceed what's known as the Dunbar number. The Dunbar number is the maximum number of the basis of kinship, of acquaintance. If you want two tribes to work together, you These bonds have included culture, language, that allows us to exceed the scale of a single a greater scale. As our money has evolved in its scale, it commerce on a greater level. Money is also, ironically, a system of control. Controlling money confers great power to those As a result, kings and governments have always much like how they used to hold it over religion Now that has changed. On January 3rd 2009, the world changed because A flat network with no central servers, all a content type. As internet professionals, you may understand type,&quot; money that is expressed purely as data, that can convey information. A bitcoin transaction doesn't need to be transmitted a convenient way to do it. You could encode it in Skype emojis. You could write it up and put it in a Craigslist You could post it on Facebook in the background Money as pure information on a network that neutral, and global. There are no borders on this new technology, Everyone can access it because it is not a You do not need to register for an account. You simply download a client. A Bitcoin client is very much like a web browser, to other Bitcoin clients out there. As soon as you download that one application, economy is open to anyone of any race, religion, For most people, this concept hasn't yet quite The children born today may not know a world money exists, any more than the young people world used to look like before the internet. How many of you here remember libraries and Okay, you're over 40 years old. So am I. Gotcha! The children born today may never drive a never know a world where banks control money Money will be an integral protocol of the by anyone, anywhere. But that's not enough. Let's make it more fun. Every form of money, until today, has to have Money can only be owned and managed by people, legal fiction called the corporation. But Bitcoin is a protocol where autonomous No people required. Imagine a corporation with no directors, no based on scripted machine learning or maybe autonomously of any human action, managing At this point in the audience, we have a split. Some people are thinking, 'Oh no! That sounds terrible. What if it's a virus? What if it's intelligent ransomware that self-propagates it can grow when it's successful? What if it starts running A/B testing on itself Yeah, all of that is going to happen. But what if it's an intelligent charity that that automatically and instantaneously diverts need without human intervention? And, unlike most charities today, 100% of The world is about to change. Self-driving cars? How about self-owning cars? Cars that are not owned by a corporation, Cars that pay for their electricity or gas, to human beings who pay them in cryptocurrencies. Imagine software such as intelligent articles and expand their reach because people read As a result, they're able to buy more hosting reach. This is not the money of your grandparents. It's not the money of your parents. This is money that is fully programmable, finely tuned. You can specify who can access it and when, A whole new field has opened up which is now This system allows people to program the behaviour &quot;Money&quot; is such a narrow word to describe kind of look like money but aren't really What about loyalty points, tokens, subway What about the expression of a Justin Bieber as a token? What about all of the other brands that can exchangeable system directly on the internet On January 3rd 2009, the world changed. Since then, more than a thousand other cryptocurrencies all of them open-source. They're expanding in all directions, exploring tiny variation in capabilities and features, of start-ups around the world. Thousands of software engineers and developers The internet itself is changing very rapidly. Now we have autonomous agents that are using cases, beyond the control of any jurisdiction. What are the large corporations going to do neutral, borderless, censorship-resistant They're going to say, &quot;Great! We'd like that... but could you take out the censorship-resistant properties and package twelve-month license, and control? Control for us.&quot; They will take the internet and they will They will make closed gardens of boring, stale sits in the backyard of corporations adding Outside the participation of the global community, is happening all around us. They will create these intranets, they will will say, &quot;We invented Blockchain.&quot; They will be wrong and they will fail. The real principle, the real exciting thing which is a database artefact created out of It is the ability to achieve distributed consensus across great distances, without any central That consensus from the outside looks chaotic, Well, everyone in this room already knows understood by corporations: the internet. We already did it once, we're going to do This time, we're going to bring the entire In the background of this grand story, there After 25 years of the internet, it still takes to a country that's not in Europe. It will still cost you $30-40 to send money. That's only if the country you're sending it will cost far more and take far longer. A giant network of centralised, closed, corrupt poorest people on this planet. In 2017, 2.5 billion people do not have access That means they have zero access to banking That's only counting heads of household -- not Clearly they don't 'matter.' That's according to the International Monetary Imagine what happens if you bring banking smartphone. Three-and-a-half to four billion people are people among them have banking and full access We're going to bring it to the other six billion This is going to change the world faster than Imagine a $20 Android landing in a village It's no longer just a communications device, Not a bank account, but a bank. It can 'wire' and receive funds from anywhere It can do lending or receive loans for a mortgage, relief. It can internationally connect to every person We can do this within the next ten years. The world will radically transform when you to everyone in this world. You would think that banks want to do this? You'd be wrong. It's not really profitable serving people no access to ID, in oppressed countries with Also, in most of those countries, banks _are_ Or really quite indistinguishable from the So how do we fix that? Up to now the approach for all of these technologies, we've seen slowly emerge in financial technology, Bitcoin is not asking for permission. We &quot;forgot&quot; to do that. And we will proceed in (un)banking the entire This protocol is now spreading. If this one gets shut down, a 14-year-old weekend, in any programming language, and Again and again until we succeed. The world is now connected. Finance is now an application and money is Welcome to our new planet. Thank you.