Professor Paul Bloom: going back to Freud and hitting There was a point in my lecture over some parts. this&quot; and I just whipped past And I couldn't sleep over the I've been tormented. and I want to hit--Let me tell The discussion I skipped was have an unconscious at all. scientifically respectable ideas about some new ideas about why Now, the reason why I skipped best way to look at the As we will learn throughout the of what our brains do, minds do, is unconscious and So the right question to ask unconscious?&quot; subset of mental life--why is On the other hand, of unconsciousness, interesting. share them with you. from an evolutionary unconscious evolve?&quot; psychologists and biologists So, most animals do some And deception defined broadly way that fools others into responding to something that's There's physical examples of When threatened, up on end and that makes them thinking they're more dangerous There's an angler fish at the rod sticking up from the top of other fish - to fool them in edible and then to themselves be But humans, primates in general are masters of deception. behaviors and our actions people into believing what's not We try to trick people, into believing that we're sexier, more reliable, than we really are. psychology concerns the way in other people so as to make the even when that impression isn't At the same time, good lie detection mechanisms. evolutionary pressure for me to you for instance, a--if you are threatening me I am not the sort of man you But there's evolutionary say, &quot;No. could screw around with. So how do you become a good And here's where the The hypothesis is: ourselves. more generally, you're telling. a story about Alfred Hitchcock. working with child actors but he And the story goes--He was simply could not cry. Hitchcock went to the actor, whispered in his ear, they're never coming back.&quot; Hitchcock said, kid. if you were to see him, he's--he really looks as if If I had a competition where who looks the most as if they it is a very good tactic to groin because you will look are in pain. I love you, would never leave everything, it may be a superb And so, this account of the that certain motivations and particularly sinister ones, unconscious because if a person will not give them away. we should return to later on interaction and social One other thing on Freud--just Freud. home from a play date on Sunday &quot;Why can't you marry your Now, that's actually a answer for a child, an answer. back on the Freud lecture and so anybody you want, imagining he'd make explicit mother. and said, &quot;I would marry a peanuts.&quot; Both his parents are questions and at times he just [laughter] Okay. and now I want to turn to And the story of Skinner and from the story of Freud. the theory of psychoanalysis by It is as close as you could invention. sorts of sources and is identified as Freud's Behaviorism is different. thought that was there long championed by psychologists for instance. this but the reason why we've is so well known is he packaged He expanded upon them; he developed them them both to the scientific community and sociologically in In the United States, known and so was Skinner. would see on talk shows. Now, at the core of behaviorism interesting views. on learning. is everything you know, is the result of experience. Rather, people are infinitely There's a wonderful quote from John Watson is paraphrasing a The Jesuits used to claim, of seven and I'll show you the that they would take a child wanted. boast, infants, well-formed and my own and I'll guarantee to take any become any type of specialist I lawyer, artist, and yes, even beggar-man and talents, abilities, vocations and race Now, you could imagine--You appeal to this view because egalitarian view in a sense. then there's no sense in which their race or their sex could be And Watson was explicit. people will ever make any What matters to what you are is treated. create anybody in any way simply fashion. A second aspect of behaviorism And what I mean by this is the the idea of doing science and largely in reaction to Freud, mental states like desires, emotions and so on, These invisible, basis of a serious science. manifesto would then be to anything that's unobservable and stimulus and response and environment that refer to real Finally, behaviorists believed differences across species. a human can do things that a rat behaviorist might just say, Those are just general or they may even deny it. &quot;Humans and rats aren't It's just humans tend to live rats.&quot; from that theoretical methodological approach which if they're all the same then by studying nonhuman animals. did. I'm going to frame my behaviors in terms of the three they argue can explain all of all of human behavior. objections to behaviorism but powerful and very interesting. The first is habituation. of learning. described as a decline in the that are familiar due to &quot;Hey!&quot; The sudden noise startles but time it startles less. goofy. to things. is common enough in everyday We get used to the ticking of a it's actually a very important life without it. got used to anything, forward and waves their hand and &quot;Woah,&quot; and then they wave &quot;Whoah,&quot; and you And there's the loud ticking of &quot;Hmmm.&quot; or humans work. And it's actually critically because it's a useful adaptive events and objects. something when it's new because it's going to harm you, to attend to it, it. you should stop noticing it environment for long enough. because it happens through It's a way to learn through of thinking through experience. harmful stimuli are noticed but to be part of the environment The existence of habituation is One thing it's important for is psychologists have used people, nonhuman animals, And when I talk on Wednesday I'll show different ways in habituation to study the minds The second sort of learning is And what this is in a very an association between one where stimulus is a technical environment like a certain smell It was thought up by Pavlov. it's an example of scientific Pavlov, when he started this in learning. And to get saliva he had to And he had to attach something would pour out so he could study No idea why he wanted to study something. food powder in the dog's mouth But Pavlov observed that when typically gave him the food the dog--the food powder saliva And later on if you--right the dog some food - you ping a saliva to come forth. this is the apparatus that he He developed the theory of a distinction between two sorts two sorts of stimulus response One is unconditioned. unconditioned stimulus gives response. with. a stick and you say, the poking and the &quot;ouch&quot; is an an unconditioned response. When Pavlov put food powder in generated, that's an rise to an unconditioned But what happens through association develops - that and the conditioned response. for instance--Well, for instance, there was simply an the food in the mouth, saliva. The bell was a neutral stimulus. if you put the bell and the pretty soon the bell will And now the bell--When--You stimulus, unconditioned When the conditioned stimulus are brought together over and pretty soon the conditioned response. conditioned stimulus giving rise This is discussed in detail in going to give you--Don't panic I'm going to give you further So, the idea here is, unconditioned stimulus and the rise to the response. between reinforced trials and A reinforced trial is when the unconditioned stimulus go You're--and to put it in a dog that the bell goes with the An unreinforced trial is when bell. this. once you teach an animal teaching the response goes away But here's a graph. the number of cubic centimeters The dog is trained so that when I misframed it. When the bell comes connected saliva. when the bell goes on but So, it's--Imagine you're the So, you get food in your mouth, bell, food,&quot; and now &quot;bell.&quot; bell, bell.&quot; You stop. A weird thing which is you wait a while and then you a couple of hours, This is known as spontaneous So, this all seems a very animals and the like but it's and how it extends. of stimulus generalization. the topic of one of your Reader, John Watson, who reported a bizarre Little Albert. Little Albert originally liked In fact, I'm going to show you originally liking rats. See. No problem. interesting. with the rat, oh,&quot; Watson went behind the chapter--and banged the metal The baby, &quot;Aah,&quot; screamed, Okay. stimulus? The loud noise, What's the unconditioned Crying, sadness, misery. Little Albert grew afraid of So there--what would be the The rat. response? Excellent. other things. unpersuasive clip. make the point that the fear a white rabbit. Little Albert's fine with the The second part is after he's of freaked out with the white The problem is in the second at him but now he's okay. [laughter] Is the mic on? This is fine. experiments that we can't do So, classical conditioning is phenomena. conditioning have been extended animals including crabs, And it's been argued to be an underlie certain interesting So, I have some examples here. So, the Little Albert idea--The provides an illustration for Some proportion of people in Imagine you're afraid of dogs. the--for why you became afraid came up and he was a neutral No problem. Now the pain of a bite, and fear of that is an unconditioned response. &quot;ow.&quot; there is a conditioned stimulus dogs. this also forms the basis for could make phobias go away. stimulus, conditioned response Well, what you do is you How do you extinguish them? would cause you to have the fear stimulus. It's a joke. He's simultaneously confronting snakes, and the dark because the logic is--the logic of--the He's stuck in there. conditioned stimulus. fear goes away. he's stuck in there he has this and then it makes his fear much So, what they do now though, later in the course when we talk one cure for phobias does draw in a more intelligent way, So, the claim about a phobia is between, say dog and fear, and some bad response. called, &quot;systematic expose you to what causes you the same time so you replace the fear with something more Traditionally, relaxation exercises but that So nowadays they just pump you really happy and so you're you're and this isn't so bad. but the notion is you can use to deal with questions about phobias and how they go away. We'll spend some time in this when we eat. and when we eat is that there's associated with eating. For those of you who are trying you'll notice that there's there's times of the day or make you want to smoke or really And from a behaviorist point of associative history of these More speculatively, argued to be implicated in the including fetishes. fetishes, for instance, classical conditioning. brings you to orgasm, shoe. classical conditioning then, stimulus giving rise to the pleasure. the right story but again, some ideas of classical in determining what we like and And in fact, and rapists involved controlled shift the association from for instance, associations with sexual So the strong classical fetishes and fears sound silly are but at the same time used at least to shape the focus interests. yeah. So, what do we think about We talked about what What's classical conditioning Well, the traditional view is It's just association. the CS, the bell and the food, at the same time. should be the strongest when the response to one is the same This is actually no longer the The mainstream view is now a It's that what happens in preparation. sensitive to a cue that an event allows you to prepare for the This makes certain predictions. timing is when the conditioned comes before the unconditioned to prepare for. response may be different from So, move away from food. beaten by his father. hand he flinches. conditioning. he has learned that the raising about to be hit and so he His flinch is not the same one's hit. If you're hit, back or something. being hit. the idea of what goes on in the response is sort of a The conditioned response is a unconditioned stimulus. all over the place. and I had to think about movie &quot;Clockwork Orange&quot;? It's kind of a shocking movie but at its core one of the main Psych. And a main character, rapist, is brought in by some And the therapy he gets is In particular, drug that makes him violently And then his eyes are propped violence. conditioning, real world violence - he basically, training him to get violence. Don't say it aloud. What's the unconditioned Okay. unconditioned stimulus? The drug. response? What's the conditioned stimulus? What's the conditioned response? The third and final type of conditioning or instrumental And this is the thing, and developed most extensively What this is is learning the do and how successful or learning what works and what It's important. classical conditioning and one is for classical conditioning You could literally be strapped connections are what you connections in your mind. voluntary. dint of your choices. learned than others. developed in the nicest form by animals learn. entirely comfortable studying extrapolations to other animals So, he would put a cat in a And the trick to a puzzle box out but you have to kind of pull some special lever, And Thorndike noted that cats through insight. while and mull it over and then Instead, what they do is they different things and gradually So, what they do is, scratch at the bars, dig at the floor, And one of their behaviors is The lever gets them out of the trials they stopped scratching ceiling and so on. And if you graph it, better. behaviors randomly. those are the ones that survive and those are the ones that go And it might occur to some of analogy with the Darwinian where there's a random And sexual selections give rise some of which survive and are And in fact, analogy from the natural natural selection of behavior. the law of effect, - an action's increased if And Skinner extended this more So, to illustrate Skinnerian I'll give an example of training So here is the idea. need to do so through operant So one of the things you want some things you like and some And so what you want to do, of effect, is reinforce the pig Suppose you want the pig to So, you reinforce the pig for the pig for walking backward. fullness of time, punishment will give rise to a There's two--One technical put on Intro Psych exams is that reinforcement and negative Reinforcement is something that Negative reinforcement is very Negative reinforcement is just The difference is in positive in negative reinforcement you So, imagine the pig has a heavy walking forward you might remove So, these are the basic But it's kind of silly because dance. walk forward. Well, you can't adopt the this pig to dance and when it because it's going to take you a Similarly, if you're dealing want your child to get you a you can't just sit, beer and uncap the bottle and &quot;Excellent. Hugs.&quot; it. to it is known as shaping. dance. something that's halfway close and you reward it. that's even closer to dancing And you keep rewarding it as it Here's how to get your child to You say, &quot;Johnny, get me some beer?&quot; then he forgets why he's there &quot;You're such a good kid. Hugs.&quot; then finally you get him to also the beer, get the--and in that way you complicated things. this. in World War II, It was never actually used but And people, in fact--The United States and other attempts to get animals like interesting and deadly things More recreational, animals to play Ping-Pong. animal to play Ping-Pong by and then rewarding it. approximations to it. there are primary reinforcers. naturally like, There are some things pigs like, like being hit or shocked. dealing with humans, animals, primary reinforcers or negative What we often use are things &quot;Good dog.&quot; something your dog has been to find pleasurable. a two-step process. positive through classical You give the dog a treat and Now the phrase &quot;good dog&quot; will And you could use that train it. behaviorists have developed nonhuman animals to do arbitrary rewards like poker And in this way you can training. giving, whenever the pig does it. works. animals involved cases where the the time but actually happens schedules. distinction between fixed variable schedules and ratio And this is something you could I don't need to go over it in The difference between ratio is times somebody does something. dog brought you the newspaper that's ratio. time. your dog, I don't know, that would be an interval And fixed versus variable reward on a fixed schedule, or variable, sometimes on the seventh time, And these are--There are need to go over them. examples in real life. a slot machine is variable It goes off after it's been hit It doesn't matter how long it It's the number of times you But it's variable because it thousandth time. It's unpredictable. example of a phenomena known as effect. It makes sense when you hear it that's been validated over and nonhumans. Suppose you want to train want the training such that you're not training them which is typically what you If you want that, all the time. they're reinforced as &quot;the partial reinforcement Thinking of this it's as if whenever you put gave you money, stopped. times but then you say, It doesn't work,&quot; but what if every hundred times? because the reinforcement is as much and so your behavior amount of time. What's the very worst thing to into bed with you and you don't you? do is for any--Actually, a kid is to say, No, no, no, no.&quot; And then later on the kid's &quot;I want to do it again&quot; and you because you've put it, psychological way, would put it. he's not going to get it right asking. what you're doing inadvertently exploiting the partial If I want my kid to do out of every ten times. that's the evolution of Because you nag, the person says, reinforces it. rats and pigeons and dogs, that he did but he argued that notions to humans and to human So for an example, system needs to be reformed notions of justice and focus instead on questions of punishing bad ones. operant conditioning to be argued that people's lives would satisfying if they were behaviorist way. What are your questions about [laughter] Yes. [inaudible]--wouldn't there be [inaudible] Good question. things like poker chips for exactly right. poker chips is established sooner or later by that logic power to serve as reinforcers. up again, retrain again. &quot;Good dog&quot; to reward the dog, which is right, give the dog a treat along with Otherwise, &quot;Good dog&quot; is not Yes. [inaudible] As far as I know, psychologists were never creation of prisons. the psychological theory of impact and I think a lot of criminal justice and criminal behaviorist principles. institutions like mental have installed token economies behavior, And then you could cash them in And, to some extent, adherence to behaviorist Okay. positions of behaviorism. knowledge. (2) That you could explain notions like desires and goals. apply across all domains and I think it's fair to say that agrees all of these three claims First, we know that it's not There is considerable evidence knowledge and innate desires and it in detail when we look at learning, preference, the developing objects. how much is innate and what the systems are but there's nobody considerable amount for humans Is it true that talking about Nobody believes this anymore Science, particularly more or chemistry, They're all about things you And it makes sense to explain in terms of internal mechanisms Once again, the computer illustrative case study. plays chess and you want to chess, without talking about the the computer. reinforcement and punishment to No, and there's several Skinner suggesting that they This is from a classic study by run a maze. rats did fine. and faster when they're learn to run a maze faster and at all. but the reward is in no sense And here's a more sophisticated Professor Paul Bloom: finding, an old finding from that was a huge embarrassment as it suggests that rats in an internal mechanism that they entirely contrary to the could be explained in terms of Finally, is it true that constraints for learning? be &quot;no.&quot; have natural responses. peck for food but that's because natural response. to peck to escape a situation. wings to escape a situation but flap its wings for food. of natural responses that these exploit and might channel, they do have certain natural world. and responses are created equal. very nice discussion of the And the Garcia effect goes like Does anybody here have any food I don't mean foods you don't I mean foods that really make Often food aversions in humans through a form of association. have the flu and you get very point you eat some sashimi for The connection between being is very potent. intellectually full well that nauseous, still you'll develop When I was younger - when I Greek liqueur, I didn't have the flu at the And as a result I cannot abide Now, thank God it didn't but-- [laughter] But the smell is very to me. effect I developed a strong What's interesting though is you take an animal and you give it a drug to make it nauseous it But if you take an animal and you shock it very painfully it And the idea is that a something tastes and getting We are hard wired to say, &quot;Look. and I'm going to get nauseous, The Garcia effect is that this It doesn't extend more Finally, I talked about phobias on in this course. formed their phobias through always wrong. there are certain phobias that So, both humans and are particularly prone to And when we talk about the we'll talk about this in more But what seems likely is the have does not have much to do rather it has a lot to do with Finally, the other reading part--section of the course is his &quot;Review of Verbal Chomsky is one of the most He's still a professor at MIT, thought, among other matters. read is from his &quot;Review of And this is one of the most documents ever written in entire discipline of behaviorism more than everything else, could be said to have destroyed intellectual endeavor. complicated and interesting, he had to make is--goes like When it comes to humans, punishment and so on that humans are so vague it's not And remember the discussion we What Skinner--What Chomsky is unfalsifiablity. he would discuss. Behavior, do we do things like talk to imitate sounds, enemy, fantasize about pleasant And Skinner says that they all those are all reinforced But Skinner doesn't literally ourselves somebody gives us food He doesn't literally mean even somebody pats us on the head and Perfect. What he means, in this case is well, self-reinforcing or giving bad because it makes your enemy feel Well, Chomsky says the problem That's all true. useless. more. enemy is reinforcing because it say anything different from feels good because we like to It's just putting it in more More generally, of effect when applied to humans trivially or uninterestingly and obviously false. notion of reward or then it's true. you who are not freshmen--Oh, All of you, why did you come to &quot;Well, I repeated my action rewarding.&quot; What do you mean by that? that somebody rewarded you, What you mean is you chose to semester. saying that but we shouldn't And more generally, about what other people do in punishment and operant conditioning. you have to use terms like &quot;reinforcement&quot; in such a vague saying anything scientific. intellectual field has faded, important legacy and it still contributions of twentieth For one thing, understanding of certain particularly with regard to Mechanisms like habituation, operant conditioning are real; studied; in the lives of animals and human lives as well. everything. I'm going to return to on behaviorists have provided particularly for nonverbal animal trainers. who want to teach young children populations like the severely retarded. techniques have proven to be And in that regard, it stands as an important