Thanks to CuriosityStream for supporting PBS Bad ideas come and go in physics. But there's one bit of nonsense that is perpetual motion machine. No working perpetual motion machine has ever All break the laws of thermodynamics. In fact, we classify them based on WHICH law of We have perpetual motion machines of the first pump more energy out than they need to keep This includes most of the historical devices. Then there are machines of the second kind because break the second law of thermodynamics Many modern "free-energy" devices fall Now the best modern designs are by you - answers get to at the end. But first let's take a look at examples be a fun little journey through some pretty Designing a perpetual motion machine has a from the middle ages through the renaissance. The first well-documented design for a perpetual Bhaskara's wheel, named after the Indian mercury that would flow from back and forth Other types of over-balance wheels followed Basically the shift in the center of gravity of the spokes on one side should drive the wheel around. There were also designs that employed the For example, this ramp in which a ball is through a hole and rolling to the bottom again. Then there are the self-pumping waterwheels None of these machines actually worked. In every case you can find a subtle bit of The overbalance wheel pushes masses outwards increases the separation between those masses, A magnet strong enough to pull a ball up anincline would also prevent it from falling through that hole. Losses due to friction mean that water or energy to fully complete the cycle. Close, but no perpetual lighting cigar. Now to be fair to the people working during conservation of energy hadn't been discovered Thus the proliferation of first-type machines used. But absolute proof of their non-viability, by the discovery of the first order of thermodynamics in the 18th century, Inventors just graduated to instead breaking the second To review: the 2nd law states that entropy words, energy will tend to spread itself out All machines work by riding this flow of energy Machines of the second kind claim to be able evenly spread - effectively reversing the Before we get to modern perpetual motion machines, ideas that illustrate the limit of the second First up, the Brownian Ratchet. It goes like this: a paddle wheel immersed that only lets it turn in one direction. Individual gas particles are moving around When one hits the wheel in one direction the rotation is blocked. Sounds ... plausible. And it actually works. But ONLY if the chamber containing the cog If it's at the same temperature then the latch raises. Richard Feynman himself demonstrated this This is actually a specific example of a Maxwell's experiment that we've discussed before. With no energy or temperature gradient, no In fact there's an absolute limit to the on a difference in temperature. That limit is defined by the most important system ever conceived: the Carnot cycle. In the early 19th century, Sadi Carnot described a sequence of expansion and contraction of the maximum possible energy as heat flows Critically, the Carnot cycle is reversible. Drive the piston in reverse with exactly the energy from cold to hot. In principle a Carnot engine could extract pump it back in again, making it a candidate But even in this most ideal case the ratio No extra energy is extracted. The Carnot cycle is, in principle, a perpetual But doesn't break any laws of thermodynamics, In fact it's the third kind. These are perpetual motion machines that do keep themselves running forever. Sounds OK, right? After all, Newton tells us, an object in motion by an outside force. So remove all outside forces - remove all surely any machine can tick on forever. Indeed there are ideal systems that, from Like a perfect Carnot engine, or a frictionless tubes - or a planet orbiting a star. Just eliminate ANY leakage of energy. But that's not just an engineering challenge, In fact, quantum mechanics forbids it. Due to the intrinsic quantum randomness of uncertainty principle, everything moves. Internal parts always vibrate, guaranteeing Even if that heat is recaptured, the outer system must radiate, slowly leaking energy. And then of course there's the gravitational motion" of celestial systems. The best-case scenario for a perpetual motion slow wind-down to stillness. Now that we've reviewed three types of possible wrongness in perpetual motion machines, let's look at some of the modern proposals. Most look a lot like their ancient predecessors somehow powering their own motion and producing These are often referred to as over-unity in is greater than one. That name was actually coined by the US patent and the French Academy of Science refuses energy production. Understandably - it eliminates 50% of their Now the purveyors of over-unity devices typically devices of the first kind. They have various explanations for how they However most end up shifting their device violate the 2nd law of thermodynamics by extracting One popular source of free energy is the zero-point most fun to debunk. I'm going to have to refer you to our entire but the important point is that any energy It has no energy gradient, so isn't accessible Now it may be possible to create an energy in which plates are pulled together by lowering But doing so repeatedly in an engine cycle At best you have a perpetual motion device Most modern perpetual motion builders aren't In fact the worst of them wouldn't have over-balance wheel. They rely more on pseudo-physics-speak - zero-point, but are typically less good at generating to their donate button or selling you a telluric OK, enough with the nonsense . Let's get YOU to come up with a perpetual motion machine According to some interpretations, negative but positive mass should be repelled by negative The result is that a positive and negative powering an infinite energy device. But how to build one? Let's see what you came up with. Many of you hit on the most obvious and efficient so they chase each other in circles, driving Here are some of the better designs. Nice adaption of the Bhaskara's wheel from Alex Taylor has an especially cool dynamo a magnetic field. He also does the full relativistic calculation We have a rare non-dynamo device from Adrien mass teeth. This post-it will be framed in the Smithsonian energy crisis. And the prize for most outlandish goes to entire bubble universe with closed, pac-man If you saw your name and device just now, You do get your pick from the Space Time store. Shoot us an email at pbspacetime@gmail.com Feel free to check the store even if you didn't get around to submitting but are pretty sure We all deserve merch. Link in the description. I'm also going to post some of the best 'em out at matt_of_earth. And I leave you with wise words from someone machines himself. Leonardo da Vinci. "Oh ye seekers after perpetual motion, how Go and take your place with the alchemists. " da Vinci was ahead of his time in some even before the laws of thermodynamics came But vain chimeras? Had only da Vinci known that his own perpetual cool swag from Space Time. Thank you to CuriosityStream for supporting CuriosityStream is a subscription streaming titles from a variety of filmmakers, including For example you can check out the Destination Horizons mission from its inception to the favorite Kuiper Belt dwarf planet. You can learn more at curiositystream dot Hey guys, quick announcement - if you're thing this Thursday, 9pm at Caveat. It's called astronaut training, and it should Well, my cohosts should be hilarious. I'm going to try to not look silly. I'm not hopeful on that. Link in the description. OK, and on to comments from our last episode In which we deciphered the cryptic patterns Francois Lacombe asks how astronomers distinguish the CMB from the rest of the microwave noise. This is a great question because isolating The contaminating microwaves mostly come from between the stars, and also from individual particles or circling in magnetic fields Fortunately We know where the sources of this emission and can do pretty well modeling and subtracting All that galactic emission doesn't look anything it's pretty clear when we've subtracted it Abe Dillon asks whether the &quot;moment&quot; of recombination The answer is absolutely. People tend to talk about recombination as same time everywhere. That's not the case. Recombination happened when the universe became the first atoms. More dense regions were a little hotter, so And in general the entire universe didn't It took several tens of thousand years - which than 400,000 years old. It took long enough that the patterns of the the CMB and in galaxy rings were blurred out to become fully transparent. Julio Toboso Garcia points out that the method expansion - sounds a like Fourier Analysis. Good insight, Julio. In fact it's pretty much exactly that, but Fourier analysis represents functions in one On a spherical surface you instead use spherical John Rodriguez wished he'd've known that the Wizard class. So if wizarding schools existed - and they probably more like Brakebills in The Magicians Less like Hogwarts. So basically like the most obnoxiously elite You need 5 letters of reference from Nobel and yeah, first authorship on a paper in theoretical project.