At 9:31 pm, the buzzer sounds, and the Chicago Red Wings ends with a 4-1 loss. Less than game against the Minnesota Timberwolves begins, Center's floor from a hockey rink to a basketball who quickly remove the remotely-operated cameras roll up the rubber matts that cover the ground and others on skates can walk around safely. people, some full-time United Center employees, regular jobs. Much of the crew waits by with tunnel as soon as it's clear. These carts are black for the west side, and white for the Removing the glass is as simple as applying a connector between each pane. The process moves if anything, it's limited by how fast the While this occurs, cleaning crews move through the rink. These areas will entirely transform prioritized over the rest of the arena so start on the west side since they'll soon need a the rink--the slope on the Zamboni tunnel is too currently covering the corner tunnel. In addition to prep these seats for conversion--removing Within just 25 minutes of the buzzer going off, the last pieces of glass come down. the crews have taken advantage of the coarse ice professional hockey to provide traction the process involving covering the ice, it's now After all, the ice is always there--from pre-season basketball game or a concert, courts, stages, as unlike essentially every other element needed is a time-consuming process involving days of lines, logos, and advertisements. It's just not maintaining NHL-quality ice is also no easy feat, about prepping it for its next use, it's also even as an NBA game happens on top of it. crew gets a brief break, but others continue work parts of the process as the entire geometry basketball. An NBA court is less than half as long there's plenty more room for seating. In fact, during the conversion. The main difference is that far past the hockey boards, but there are the Zamboni needs access, which requires players access changes between sports--with on one side of the arena, whereas in basketball both for players and for those sitting essentially the entire seating configuration near To achieve this in a matter of hours, the The individual seats fold down flat, then section compact state, crews use a lifting platform to operate like a hovercraft, shooting air at the massive seating sections so that the workers can This side, with seating extending further down, is for basketball as in the basketball configuration as to the top of the boards, rather than the past the boards given the smaller court size. For so that the basketball side now faces the rink. off-rink activities occur--a couple people work to where the access tunnels will eventually be; by the telescopic seating; while one person the netting used to catch stray pucks. round of materials. During hockey games, all large room underneath one of the long sides of the way so that each cart is accessible when it's to the door, whereas the pieces of the actual With the Zamboni now done, crews bring out risers; One crew gets to work converting the benches where bench access tunnels with platforms, then affixing space of sixteen seats, so considering filling these in adds up to thousands of also space within what was the benches, so the As this goes on, others quickly work to cover plywood flooring. Most of this is fairly that fit together easily. Where it gets tricky each piece is cut for its precise spot, incorrectly will throw off the whole process. it refuses to easily slot in, requiring the crew as the rest of the crew watches on, waiting conversion. But once in, to lock the flooring small spacers are hammered in around the edges. steps sometimes diverge. While NHL hockey and NBA programming, the arena also hosts concerts, comedy Most comedy shows and certain concerts use United they're able to set up a variety of simple though, typically bring their own staging, so converted to this point, then the tour's staff nights. Not only do concerts last longer, but the to four hours before the in-house crew can even a rink conversion needs to be done by isn't the AM when the visiting team is allowed to use the and late nights for the crew, especially when conversions. Things get even more complicated in a rink or court is going to be needed for a game even some slight variations to the rink and court NHL game is broadcast nationally, for example, and also setup an additional broadcasting position glass cart on this particular night--it was taken But this November conversion was, at court transformation the crew is most used tapes and chalk to mark out where the corner smaller than the rink, getting its location the seating that will surround it works too. the materials, the court itself is stored in a all, it's the most crucial, hardest-to-replace only one of them. Each piece is the same size, but to the lines, logos, and advertisements painted Part of the crew lays out each piece in roughly deal with the precise placement, using a mallet precision is key--any slight misalignment with they go on. A gap between flooring pieces is they'll have to go back and re-do their work. seating. Now rotated, the telescopic seating is are placed in between each section so that the front of these seating sections now only go bottom. The arena uses this additional height, and in additional rows of seating. Small sections are bulk of these rows is brought out by forklift and in place, these seating units too will extend out On the long sides of the court, risers are slightly elevated sightline for the backmost row one-by-one by hand, eventually fully surrounding where league officials, TV announcers, broadcast as well as the digital advertising Setting up the hoops is one of the last steps. affix its support wires to the backboard, then there it's all about calibration--assuring the the both are exactly where they're supposed to be check that the rim hinges down under pressure as there's always the backup hoop in the storage At this point, only small, finishing touches putting the last few seats in place, and the conversion crew is done. The clock just from the first panes of glass coming off to took almost exactly two hours and thirty minutes. over again the next night. After the Bulls game for a comedy show, then two nights later followed by another overnight conversion to court convert the arena twenty-one times, working no matter which surface it requires. this video in-person at United Center. This was a to get this footage, but also all the information the most detailed video on how arena conversion filming this was expensive, so I think this video a little more budget than the YouTube business afford to fly out to film every video. But that's streaming service that from the very beginning was support higher-budget projects from independent paywall, which I know at first might seem but it does have its benefits. First, as a bonus, there ad and sponsorship free, but really what subscription fee helps us make all sorts of great, if you enjoyed this video, you'd probably enjoy the nitty gritty of how things like ski resorts You might also enjoy Modern Conflicts, where Real recent history's most consequential conflicts. Or Tom Nicholas called Boomers, which is basically flowed to, well, Boomers, and the consequences different Originals I love, but the thing to know typically get on YouTube, and the best are yet to the recent new subscribers, Nebula's already releases yet in the coming year, including working on that I'm super excited to release. What is the fact that it's not only a home to all sorts but that it's an ecosystem that is simply predictable monthly income through it that's and ad-rates. Tens upon tens of thousands of are still subscribed, so if you want to see what head to Nebula.tv/Wendover, and doing so