Be a little bit more of a class, than a, I learned something about marketing. Cause I was told that the title of this How to negotiate, when you absolutely have Well that is a great ti, I mean, that's a That you would you'd come for. I mean, everybody would have come to hear how do you negotiate when you have to have You know, everybody wants to know how to They asked me, you know, well, what will them, and I would say, don't get in that [LAUGH] Where you absolutely have to have So it would be a very short session. So I change. The session, to the one that you, you Which is conducting effective negotiation. So a little more pedestrian title. A little less exciting, but I think we'll things here that may influence the way you so, who in here likes to negotiate? Raise of hands. So that's maybe 20% of the class. Who just dreads negotiation? That's even a smaller percent. So the rest of you are kind of You'll do it. You know, you'll eat your broccoli, if you but you're not looking forward to it, this Negotiation is your vegetables of your You'll do it. You know it's good for you. You know you have to do it, but you don't So, who and, let's just take a second on, those of you who like it, why do you like What is it you like about it? Now the hands disappear. Yeah? &gt;&gt; Well, compared to my engineering field, wrong, black or white, in negotiations grey, and nobody can say I'm wrong. [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; So you feel better about yourself. [LAUGH] You don't get any bad, and you &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] I get credit, you know? Nobody can say they could have done it &gt;&gt; Yeah, all right. &gt;&gt; Yeah the reason I wanted to go is that typically I have heights to take I'm, when I negotiate, I'm going to wing I&quot;m going to get better on the other side. &gt;&gt; So you are gonna improve your, your-. &gt;&gt; Situation. &gt;&gt; Your situation. Okay, so you negotiate to improve whatever &gt;&gt; Conflict situations is just rarely the can make a deal without some level of So I look at it as just as, as a means to the end, and getting to the end is kind of On the flip side, doing win-win deals is &gt;&gt; Okay. So you see it largely as eating your but sometimes you do get to turn it into [INAUDIBLE] [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] By working for me. &gt;&gt; I keep thinking of the first George How he hated eating broccoli. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So I actually like broccoli too. &gt;&gt; Yeah. [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah [INAUDIBLE] that I think the fun, and it's also like a pizza, it's like the puzzle [INAUDIBLE] if you're the you do you get it all together, and make And [INAUDIBLE] win-win, and that's fun if &gt;&gt; So, win-win agreements are fun, and the, the, the higher the percentage of can get that are win-win, the more you Other? &gt;&gt; I think it's a, a unique opportunity It's one of the most creative aspects of &gt;&gt; It does allow you to fashion solutions. According to, usually different kinds of so you get to be, you get to express some &gt;&gt; We have building relationship, as well &gt;&gt; Yeah, building. &gt;&gt; You understand better where, what they they wanna go and you can [INAUDIBLE] some &gt;&gt; Yeah, and I'll bet you, those of you like negotiation, saw it as a way of destroying relationships, of stressing So, a lot of it depends on, on, you know, are you doing to relationships, as you How about those of you who didn't, let's some more of things that you don't like For those who just say, I can do without What do you not like? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Just makes me very uncomfortable think, not have enough information, to get the And more often than not, I just regret the results, thinking I could have done &gt;&gt; Okay, so you look back on it, and you I didn't get as good a deal as I might I lost. Other things you don't like about, yeah? &gt;&gt; [SOUND] Most of the time, hopefully, other side is Or are, is an intelligent But you do get the what I call amateur, in fact can get just, intellectually and &gt;&gt; You can get abused, in negotiations. And there's a whole lot of, there are a lot of issues around power, and If there's a disparity in power, leverage, with a party who's gonna use that and take You can go out of the room feeling abused. [INAUDIBLE] Yeah. [LAUGH] Yeah. I actually met with Donald Trump, in his office in New York, about 20 years ago, he was a huge cheese, but he was with a [LAUGH] And actually he tried to sell me Any of you know the Washington Generals? This was a, a USFL football team, that had And so he was very proud of that, and he, to sell me an interest in that, and I So, that's my qualification for teaching a [LAUGH] [INAUDIBLE] Actually my I have negotiated billions of dollars, of transactions, over the years Literally, not a thousand different kinds of I was in the real estate business for 20 and I was actually the chief financial real estate company for about ten years, debt deals, and equity deals, and then partner departures, and solving And, so, my, my life was a diet of And then, when I got done with that, I buying companies and it became a different So, I've seen a lot of different kinds of I've experienced the feeling of looking When I'm negotiating, and with great it, because I like the people on the other I like trying to problem solve. I like being creative. I like all those, those elements. And I also have looked at certain days of I cannot wait to get the day behind me. So there's nothing intrinsic about you should like it or not like it. I, I remember teaching a real estate class Stanford about ten or 12 years ago, and roughly the same question, but i did it in form of, who of you likes to buy a new And that was the most highly correlated with who likes to negotiate, and who There are some people who absolutely hate, new car, because it feels like you come [LAUGH] You know? You don't have the, it's uneven And whatever, so it can, it can be a bad experience Well, who here are expert Raise of hands. [LAUGH] Every hand should go up. Every hand in the room should go up. You all are here in life, because you have You would not be in. What is the negotiating? Negotiating is getting what you want, at a So you have paid prices, to be at this place in your life, that you're happy So you are expert negotiators, and I wanna that a little bit, and let you really kind Peer into what it is that you're, you've But, first of all, here's maybe a little map for you to start thinking about the All of the conversations you have in life, Everything that you've done has been a For those of you who are married. You're negotiating all the time. With your spouse, with your children. In your job, you're negotiating all the In school you're negotia. I mean, conversations, are in effect, a a give-get transaction, and usually, the informal they are, the more successful When you do it with friends and family, usually, they feel more successful, then these, sort of sty, where we think about negotiations, entrepreneur, is in this Where there are agreements, there are sit down at a table, somebody takes notes, And there's certain things that we trade off, and then finally, very formal These are typically ones that are done, in litigation, where there are rules of very structured, narrow thing, and that very fun one, although I've now spent four I'm good enough. In fact, I had one attorney say that I was And I started liking negotiation or [COUGH] This was an opposing attorney, So you feel pretty good about that. So what makes for successful negotiations? In across all of those. If if I recognize, so many people from my be hard not to cold call, on Angie here, So what, what makes for successful negotiatia, if you think about successful What do you think about? I've just had a successful negotiation. What's your self talk? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Set the right expectations. &gt;&gt; Okay, expectations are, your set 'em the right way going in. They've been met, therefore you've That's a successful negotiation. Yeah. &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] and [INAUDIBLE]. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] Is also, why [INAUDIBLE] [INAUDIBLE] how do we [INAUDIBLE] oh, that Or, that is something that I should fight And then [INAUDIBLE]. &gt;&gt; Okay, so, some of it is how you, how How the other, how you and the other party and then are you able to execute, in that Bonny? &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] win-win. It's easy to define what winning is on But I see when on the other side, is that the person, the residual effect after they room, and as time goes on, that they're they don't try to undermine and negotiate So they were happy too. &gt;&gt; Okay, so you are thinking more broadly than a lot of business people, think about I mean, these are, what I would call Here's what most business people are This is the essence of most business These five things. So, they're focused on getting the best Making sure that whatever time frames for execution or deliverables, whatever Making sure the warranties are in place. And then if things go wrong, they've got They may be legal remedies. They may be economic remedies. They're probably a combination of both. So, most business negotiating, which is in is so focused on me getting what I want in And people don't think more broadly than If [SOUND] people who do a lot of these things, talk about these techniques. Does anybody not run into these before as sort of things that are taught in Are any of these new to any of you, &gt;&gt; The bathroom. The bathroom one is a, is a commonly used Feed the person a lot of water, and a lot food [LAUGH] and then just keep talking, So, using the bath, bathroom breaks is a using techniques, you know, there, and They've got a plane to catch. Their schedule, exactly. They've gotta catch a plane, and so you You speak slowly. You make things drag out. You disagree at the last minute. Just as they're running for their plane, you do the Colombo thing, you know oh, one You know, have any of you been subject to What does it feel like? &gt;&gt; Well [COUGH] is what you have to assess a, it's, it's it's always incompetence, or And that can be difficult. And it's annoying to have. To have to even have that [CROSSTALK]. &gt;&gt; Either case, what do you, how do you If you're dealing with an incompetent &gt;&gt; Wasting your time [INAUDIBLE]. &gt;&gt; It makes you angry. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE] Very few people, don't If you're on the other side of the table, it's not like oh, my gosh, what is I don't know, I don't understand, this is You know, most of the time you perceive immediately these techniques, and Or you're angry about them. So, in term of techniques that people you know, I think these are You may get a deal done. But you're unlikely to get a deal that is lasting, enduring, flexible, where you Where you create solutions. But these are used all the time, mostly I'm just kidding. [LAUGH] Sorry, sorry, I know. [LAUGH] Roy, could you turn that tape off [LAUGH]. I have one other technique which I run Which is the, during a set of conflicts, long, long negotiations, maybe over the The, you, you discover that in the course the competitor, for example, has been promoting something completely different And the explanation you get when you very sorry we had no idea that was going &gt;&gt; The impersonation of-. &gt;&gt; Deny, deny, deny, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah or just innocent you know I had no &gt;&gt; Same organization. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Which puts you on your heels, puts you at others, anybody in here experience other techniques that are being used to gain Yeah, John. &gt;&gt; We were locked in a room once. [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; I think it was kinda amateurish back in days in eastern Europe, that we just [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; I bet there are a lot of interesting That was another one, so, yeah. &gt;&gt; Language, there's a [UNKNOWN] in terms having negotiations in China where I was gentleman who, spoke or at least didn't &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And so I had a translator, fortunately. And so that was one kinda, it's an Cuz I was pretty sure that he understood. &gt;&gt; Mm-hm. &gt;&gt; English. And for a variety of reasons, and smoke &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; He was an avid smoker. And I can't stand smoke, and, and I tried my hardest to make sure that he didn't Because that's really affected, kinda, the everyone to spend in this, you know, four &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; It was very interesting. &gt;&gt; So, making things physically There's another way that I see language You know, people that start dropping F or shouting, you know, cursing at you, They believe they get a leg up. And in some ways, most of us kind of We, we go a little bit on our heels when starts cursing at us, or they raise their I mean, as tough as you may be, if There's something in the inner child of that recoils a little bit, and is back on Now, it can cause you to come back in like It can cause you to get to that level yourself, which may or may not be a good Comment? &gt;&gt; So I had actually the opposite happen where we were having issues and then we an agreement and then they came back and you know, they could do more, more than If they gave me everything so they were kindness and then they went behind my back So it was the opposite of using the &gt;&gt; So it's kind of the limp leg. &gt;&gt; It was [UNKNOWN]. Yes. &gt;&gt; Yeah, where people use different &gt;&gt; So Joe, I have a feeling your gonna us ways to do actually do this that aren't but let's use these guys examples, where with people like this on the other side of And how do you actually take control or of set it on a positive tone, especially you're in a situation where you're sort of like, this is the company I really wanna &gt;&gt; Mm-hm. &gt;&gt; Or this is the job that I really wanna &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And you don't really have as many But these people are actually coming at &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; What would you advise us to do? &gt;&gt; Well, let's have the group, I'll, I'll But anybody in the group, you know, is using one or more of these on you. Yeah? &gt;&gt; Just call em on it. &gt;&gt; So calling them on it is one really You know, I've actually done this in a, in a litigation, where the opposing attorney And he stood up and got right in my face to shout at me, he said why did you do And you know, it really is off-putting. And you're, you're, the, the. All it shows in the transcript, is, why [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; Such and such. That's all it shows. That's all it shows. And if you answer the way you're feeling shouts at you in an accusatory way, you I'll tell you the reason. You know? And you'll do it in a way that isn't The most effective thing that I found was I say why are you standing up and raising That goes on the record. [LAUGH] But, it's, that's the most, copied way of doing exactly what your saying is. You're really call him on it in a nice Why are you raising your voice? What makes you shout about that question? Why are you standing up? Why are you pacing the floor as you get Now, you don't need to get it on the a normal negotiation, but calling him on What's another way that you could deal &gt;&gt; I, I'd start asking questions. That where I start to do. &gt;&gt; Questions are very effective, you know You know, that's always a, a very taking the volume level down, getting Another way. &gt;&gt; You gotta reach a higher plane, cuz if mode and the other person's not in good doing, you need to have a relationship, and, and the relationship usually a lot important than the actual deal you finally So, I mean, I think you do have to call You have to say, you know, what's your &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And you guys, if he's doing one and You guy's have to be both wanting a deal, and both wanting the best, you know win &gt;&gt; Sometimes [INAUDIBLE] have such power, an advantage, and you really do need the That they get away with more that it's When there's such a disparity in terms of or power, that it can be very tough to do. I tell you what I try to do is make it completely ineffective, just make it so it, I just don't pay attention to what it they're doing, by that I mean, I don't You know, I am able to outlast, my bladder You know. Or I I will plan my trip with an extra night of hotel room and I'll have an extra out the next day, so I'm not even anxious I'll let him know I'm leaving at 5 o'clock That oftentimes they'll push the thing. And I just don't sweat it. We stay and then, then pretty soon to me becomes a question of let's keep staying You know, I've missed my plane let's work. It's 11 at night, no problem. I can keep working. Well, I mean you kind of make it so that So they really pay the price for whatever So make it ineffective. So these techniques, really can sometimes marginally in the short run, on some But they're not really very powerful long Now, if you look at textbook discussions And I'm not gonna talk about, I wanna talk really today about very practical, But these are, this is the terminology. I know some of you are gonna take classes These will not be unfamiliar terms to you So here are some practical keys to And these will look just so simple minded, is in fact what most really practical Born of experience. But the first thing is negotiate with the I'm gonna tell you a half a dozen stories wrap up, where you'll see how I learned But get with the right party. You would be amazed at how many with the unempowered lieutenant, with really is not the, the decision maker, So figure out who the right party is. And are you talking with the right party? Secondly is become a trusted negotiator. And I put here that's a function, of CCP, This is a function of character, For somebody to be trusted, they have to to be competent, and they have to be So you wanted, the right party for you to The right party for them, is that you must So if you want to enter high quality trust based on character competence and empowerment, are really important things Then know your own BATNA. What's a BATNA? &gt;&gt; Best Alternative to a Negotiated &gt;&gt; In unison. [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; Best Alternative to a Negotiated Okay, this is a term that was developed by in 1981 out of the Hartford negotiation that if people could go into a negotiation what is their best alternative to this, They came out with better end results. You go in with far more confidence. I've taken it to another level. When I go into negotiations now it's, I But I try to assess what is the other So I really think hard about what is it want to achieve, and what are their really helps you kind of assess the whole you're not just thinking my agenda, my Here's what I want: price, term, remedies, This is what I need. And so many negotiators are going in with Well, go in and think about what is the of the land for the other party, and that We'll talk a little bit later about Fisher are three or four suggestions that they They're really very helpful. Discern the difference between battles and What, what we used to call the elephant Some people don't know the elephants from Have you ever negotiated with somebody for deal point is something that they have to You know, everything is compared, up, they have to win every deal point. I'm here to submit to that's a really dumb This is give-and-take, you're, if, if develop relationships the way Nichola to come out with creative solutions or don't want this, I have to win every deal So know where the elephants are and where Be willing to lose some battles to win the Yeah? &gt;&gt; Wouldn't be to my advantage just to there where I know, I don't feel so Wouldn't the other party be doing the same &gt;&gt; They should be, and you should, I mean, sort of win win negotiations, you share Lei Coca has a great line you know he was And he said you know, when I want to achieve something, I tell the other what it is I'm trying to achieve, and what And that's really kind of the starting a lot more sharing of information in that It doesn't always, it not always something And I, you know, getting back to these don't worry too much about takings, you You have to be careful, and it tells you Somebody is using, I, I was thinking when or walking out of the room or throwing It's like, I had a partner one time in the business who looked at a joint venture And he looked at it and he picked it up says, and any document that's that thick, [LAUGH] And in a way, anybody who's things and screaming and shouting and or locking you in rooms, or anything like You know, you can get the high moral So don't worry too much about them, but be And then really understand what the other This is kind of back to the figuring the But if the more you can understand their tell you stories in a minute that The more you can understand really what it that drives them, what's important to likely you are to craft a solution to that satisfies what it is that's important so, here, you've all seen this before. Just to pause on it for a second. Those of you who dread negotiations have experienced some of this win-lose Those of you who said you really enjoyed have probably experienced more of the, the Okay, so here's seven situations that have these points for me, and I only tell you not because I've had some unique you may recognize in some of these things You may be able to tie it in to your own in your own way so that it really does I, I taught a negotiation session in the number of years ago, and I had a version In version one, the instructions were, I So this was the three party negotiation. There was a buyer, there are two or three properties a buyer, a seller, and a And they had to come up with a tripartite And so everybody went off in these The instructions were have fun, be real estate and everything, and then just Well, here's what happened. There were reasonable deals made. They were made quickly. They were relatively easy to understand And there was a lot of camaraderie. People came out of it saying, man this We like each other. Aren't Stanford MBA's cool? I just really love my classmates. So that was kind of the outcome. So that was negotiations 1.0. So then we change the instructions. Okay, the objective is to win. You know? You're going into this negotiation, the Your grade's gonna be influenced by it, rank order, and you need to make a report What would you guess the change in results &gt;&gt; Some deals made. &gt;&gt; Yeah, fewer deals were made. &gt;&gt; Slowly. &gt;&gt; They were made more slowly, a lot more I mean, tons more time, people said this, said, took longer and was tougher than &gt;&gt; At Stanford. [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; People are frustrated. &gt;&gt; People are frustrated and they hated [LAUGH] They said I will never do business I had no idea these people were such jerks So fundamentally change, with the mindset said with the mindset that means my fault. But the economic outcomes weren't any, but were fewer, as somebody pointed out, a lot more complex deals, a lot of more undocumentable, unenforceable, and the So you can see by having this mindset of gotta win, and it's a zero sum, and it was I mean there were so, I mean, there's so There was so little data that price, term, remedies were about the only thing that Well, I mean, they just went in and each other, just beat each other to bloody [COUGH] So, that's the first story. And I'll let you draw your own conclusions The second was is when I was first deal that I was working on in [UNKNOWN] or Did I do that right? Any of the Spanish speakers? [UNKNOWN] And we were going into a bank And we walked in, and it was clear within a few minutes that they really weren't There, so they ushered us into this said oh, well, you know, so he sat down to And as we were sitting there negotiating building, two guys in white coats came in, And a few minutes later they came back in [LAUGH] And then they unplugged the phone [LAUGH] Pretty soon they came in and took put it on a dolly and went out with it. We're sitting there in these chairs and all of the furnitures been moved out. [LAUGH] Well it turns out this guy was Really, the person who had anything to do We said, well, these guys are here, States, make them feel good, and so the This kind of, I will tell you, my point on is goes back to make sure you're We had absolutely, this guy could not have any deal with us whatsoever, but we didn't it out, so we sat there talking across an empty office about a deal that was never Well, that's an extreme example of We end up negotiating with parties without power, without the ability to make a So you really want to think that through. The 3rd one, was also early on in my I was a chief financial officer in my late I was supposed to make a joint venture And, so I'd studied all the joint then I figured out what I wanted on this deal, and what a win-win, I mean I had all, I was steeped in all these things So, I sat down with a, a very senior, 50 years life insurance executive, and we deal points, and there were eight or ten and about after I'd been sent no, we're that in about the eighth deal point, I had then I had rose in the ninth deal point you know, we really need to have this, no on eight of them, and he said Joel, sit Just take notes. Your job here is just to take notes. [LAUGH] You know, we're not negotiating Just take notes. We're the life company. We've got all the money. You're just the developer. Take notes. And, so it was clear to me that what that That negotiation was not gonna be one in, But, I was really going to just document had, a chance to do our business, and we You know, so that wasn't the only option [COUGH] Limited partners, I, I recall thinking that I wanted to develop a a I wanted to be seen as a certain kind of And I, part of my brand was going to be would calculate exactly what a deal was On the price I was, I wanted to be known somebody who knew the value of what it was And so if I said, this is a million dollar investment, I didn't wanna You know, I really wanted to say, It's a And I guess if you want to trade two I'll do that, but I'm not gonna trade a So, I really wanted that to be my brain. Cuz I realized I was going to be in this business a long time and do hundreds So in negotiating with these limited And it was only when I got options, and this in, in one case, a guy said well I'm I need to do the deal at 950 thousand not I went out that night and called another partner, investor group and said I'll tell If you'll do this deal at a million And I can give you all these other things, So, and the guy called up the next day to resume negotiations I can say, sorry I've So, I was able to establish that I don't And it worked for a while until, we, the We ended up doing 300 deal together over a So, a lot of transactions. About 50 deals or so into it, he said says, I just gotta tell you, I like to I don't feel good, unless I can negotiate So, if you want it to be a million Tell me it's a million fifty. [LAUGH] Just tell me it's a million fifty. I'll come back with a million, and then [LAUGH] And, so we negotiated that, the would go in about five or 8% higher than He would knock it down. He'd feel good and I'd feel good. So you, you, kind of going in and having a reasonable back, a, a rule, what I'm If you gonna have serial negotiations with Senior partner departure. This is a situation, there was a billion So it's a big deal. And this was 15 or 20 years ago. So it's a very significant transaction. And the partner came to me and said, you know, I want to, let's agree going into Let's agree on values. Let's agree what these properties are And then we'll make the trade. And on this particular case I thought, you mistake we could make was, would be to Let's disagree on the values. So, you set up whatever you know, the You value them however you wish, and then And the very fact that we didn't agree on Allowed me to select deals where I thought He then was able, because he said guys, he with the, with the deal, because he It was just applying the percentage to the So we were able to get a transaction done. My departure. So I left the Crow organization with the With the reputation of being reasonable. With the reputation of being a win-win I'd settle all the litigation that crow would had for 20 years, departing I was seen as somebody who was litigation And because that had become my brand, my brand, when it came to that, they filed Against me, realizing that he'll never This guy's such a pussy, such a conciliator, he's such a giver, he'll make I really had no place to go. I had set myself up with my brand. So, I want, from that I want you to think very carefully about the brand you The last story is one that I think you'll &gt;&gt; So what happened? &gt;&gt; We ended up in four years of &gt;&gt; No [INAUDIBLE] [LAUGH] I'm now known as the ferret. No, it's interesting, because I think what am somebody who is very reasonable, who get to the point where you cross me and my do something that I really think is completely unfair then I become very So, you don't want to get into litigation So, that's, that's a better brand than the I had before, which was the guy will never He will never get into litigation. So, you really wanna think carefully, of my message, here is that there are no You may think it's an episode. You may think you're going in and having a That person talks to somebody else who somebody else, and pretty soon everything So think carefully. If you're doing a lot of negotiation for a living, think very carefully about the Now, I apologize to my students, former for this next one, because several of you seen this, but I had a, [COUGH] a negotiation with my daughter over this So, I'm out here teaching at Standford. And I come out for basically ten weeks, So, she's back in another state, and we I get back a couple of times, she and my out a couple of times, but we're basically So here I get this email from her. Dear Dad, did you hear I'm getting a rat? Won't that be cool? The pet store lady said that you can train I wanted to get mice, because they are disgusting tail, but mice just run away, Rats will sleep on you, and I'm sure dad [LAUGH] I'm thinking of naming them Ritzy Won't that be cute? And you can even see them when they're Take deep breaths if you're getting [LAUGH] I will pay for them and the cage All you and mom have to do is buy the I've already done everything else. I think I'm ready, it's okay, I can take I've proven I can take care of animals, I &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; I can handle it. So, you can trust me to take to care of They already have names. I hope you're doing well at Stanford. Isn't this warm and fuzzy? I'm doing well here, same normal things, practicing soccer, whining to mom about Just, so you know, she already said yes. [LAUGH] Is this a negotiator? This 11 year old kid, I mean some of this negotiators, I promise you we are born Just see you know, she oh, yeah, I'm sure sick of the same conversations can I get a Please, I'll do my practicing that's my Promise to do my practicing. [UNKNOWN] So here's this, this is the This is the negotiating position. She's kind of laid out her negotiating So you're sitting out here, 1,500 miles [LAUGH] She has crossed the barrier I'm So, here's my response, and I want you to this, because this is, this is a real life And I'm gonna have you predict how it came &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE]. &gt;&gt; What's that? [LAUGH] Good point. Dear Elise are you nuts? I have been killing rats at the house in nice they are not controllable they stink eat everything, they make little black And I have to clean up the mess. Just this week, I bought some decon, to &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; The next day I found a dead rat near the pool, and another one trapped in Just to be clear, how, about how I feel, I inform you, that we smashed it's head in &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; I'm a negotiator, come on. [LAUGH] It was fat and ugly. By the way, I think its name was something [LAUGH] In any event, one of the big so excited about coming home was to get Now I may as well stay, huh? See how hurt. I'm just hurt, I'm appealing to this young now, what would like next, a python, or &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] Anyway, I still love you and miss you and Love, Dad. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] Straight egg. What's that. &gt;&gt; He get's the rats. &gt;&gt; She get's the rats exactly. She got the rats. Now why would an expert professional $10 billion worth of deals under my belt. Given to this 11 year old kid on some &gt;&gt; Imbalance of power. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] That's a great point. Or besides your mom had already said yes, To me this is the difference between You know, I was willing to lose a battle And the war, what I wanted, winning for me was raising a child who's responsible, listen to me on things that really do was really willing to take a kind of Now again, now, the really gratifying part In the end she gave the rats back to the the pet store lady had told her she would So she disliked the rats as much as I did end, and she came away saying, dad you [COUGH] So now. &gt;&gt; What was that. [INAUDIBLE] change [INAUDIBLE]. &gt;&gt; she, I arrived home and the rats were &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; [INAUDIBLE]. &gt;&gt; Bothering [NOISE]. no, no, that was done, it's a done deal, already said yes [LAUGH] it was do you [LAUGH]. No I think I'll pass on that [LAUGH]. So, I think we've covered most of this, versus serial, think serial in your mind, Outside versus inside. This last was a very much of an inside You'll have negotiations with third really close, whether they are employees partners, brothers sisters The inside ones are by far the toughest. Negotiations, they're the least forgiving they're the most important ones to lose. So this idea that every negotiation is a that you have to win, it really helps you The more inside negotiations you do in the more that you realize you don't have Certainly not every deal point and you So don't think of it as a competitive This idea about, jus lik, I just like this Don't wrestle with pigs, you get dirty and So be very careful who you negotiate with. And that means generating options, that other people to talk with and to do If there's the worst thing in life, is to people that don't have the same values you I mean, it is misery. It's a different kind of misery from just you know, except being married to somebody [COUGH], then this idea of being I've given you my examples of that. But. Here are some alternative reputations you One is, I'm tough, I'm unbending the legal I've known a lot of people who are that And often they are people who have a lot and they really believe that's a really Guess what happens? In the end they may not have a lot of money they may not have the same position And they may not have a friend when things Live by the sword, die by the sword. You can be flexible, be, reopen, open to venture partner I told you about who just Turns out, he was one of the most flexible So the documents were the documents were He couldn't negotiate them, he didn't want But when it came to working out the in the real world of doing business, he And so I kept doing business with him. I probably did 25 deals with him over my Because he was such a great partner. He was a tough negotiator documenter but You can have this, reputation being eager Where you just say I do a lot of singles I don't do home runs. The other is that. People, there are some people in the world who just say I only do home runs. If I don't, get a four bagger, if I don't if I don't win the thing, it's, those are So you need to decide what your reputation We've talked about these last couple of last one is this Fishy Fisher and Yuri. Trained problem solver and we'll talk for Yeah, comment? [INAUDIBLE], [INAUDIBLE], we're talking selector, that they, [INAUDIBLE], what do when you're in the situation; where let's there's event that you need to associate Mm-hm. And they are, we really need their thing, There's not another alternative out there. You don't agree with their values. Yeah. What do you do in that kind of situation? In some cases you just have to suck it up In some cases you can get another party in In other cases you can talk to them and where I think our conflict is coming, and And talk with him about that. I used to have a partner that would say to not making a deal on this what would it And that was effective in certain you know what would it take to get this relationship on a better footing or develop a more long lasting give take and sometimes you can get that real with My, my views going back to the very don't have one vendor that you really rely on, or one alternative source of I mean, I like having a lot of options, so and I, I realize that's a bit of a You can't always do that. I mean we just did a deal with one of the in where they, they were about 40% of our We had to get that deal done. So consequently we took notes and got the So you gonna do some of that. There's not a panacea to every negotiating You are gonna deal with difficult people. You're gonna have win lose negotiations. You are going to have some things that you But I'm just saying that you can nudge It is more of a win, win experience, and So here, here mindsets that I've got when What time do we end Marcello? Where did Marcello go? 8:12. 8:12? So we have till 12. Are you happy until then, or are people You're okay? Well, let's talk a little bit about these. And one of the con, one of the mindsets is a really good mindset is that a It's just an exchange. You're good at conversations. You talk to people all the time. So, this idea of oh my gosh, we're going room, we're closing the doors, we're You know, that feels a lot more About our various interests and try to have a conversation to come up with that's mutually satisfying, so think of as conversations and your good at it, of negotiations as a series we've think that agreements as [INAUDIBLE] to this idea of what is winning, the idea There's no point in coming to an it terminates in a law suit six months You've not negotiated a good agreement. So you want them, there to be some Some sense, and usually that is a function how much trust you've developed with your If you've developed very high trust with you come to an issue the first instinct Let's go to the documents. What do the documents say? Most of the good deals I've ever made have Not once, and some of these things have lasted 25 30 years,i mean, my whole We never ever once go to the documents. Why? Because we like and trust each other and real issues and we sit down and talk it So you want a durable agreement. So that's, that's another mindset they Another mindset is, is thinking win win. In other words, to recognize that you're A lot of times, people think is the negotiator, they're only accountable I'm winning for me. There are very rare negotiations where you It's to your employees, it's to the it's to a board. Sometimes this can be a very effective not That you can use to give you, you some and say, well, I can't, I wouldn't feel right about this [INAUDIBLE] the I don't really feel good about dumping I mean, you really have an accountability. So this idea that there's an your own interest is a good mindset to [COUGH] Watching your language. I don't think it works to curse, scream, swear, slam doors, walk out of rooms, even I think bluffing is, a fools game cuz all is bluff once and have it not happen and You are forever more seen as a bluffer. So my, my view on that is just never Never use, what I call high velocity Just, you think of the words that just sorta raise people's emotional tension and Just stay away from them. And if somebody uses them on you, ignore Don't let it work. And you don't let your temperature rise. So watch your language and watch What if are genuinely upset and you get frustrated are not doing it for effect and your not a technique that you try to control it all I think you should try to control it. And, here's why. You know, if you, and if part of it is What, whatever your baseline is, it's the variation from your baseline that will get So if I say to you, I will never agree to If you know me, if you've negotiated with For me to say, I will never do that. I mean, you really believe. I've just screamed that out. Whereas if I'm throwing things around and I can shout, I'll never do that! And you'll say, yeah, yeah, okay, he'll So I think keeping the baseline. Keeping the baseline really low is a very Plus it keeps your own blood pressure I did walk out of it. This billionaire dollar deal that I did Where we were swapping a billion dollars I sat with the partners. There were six of them and one of me. And the most senior of them just said that was just completely of the wall and And I just stood up and said gentlemen, partner all these years I am so sad that I am catching my plain and I will be gone. Give me a call in Dallas if you want to And, it was that simple before I could get I had a call from three of these partners we want to negotiate business, and it I'd stood up when they said it, I'd left the room, but my speech was really that And I think they took that as, oh my gosh He is really serious. And that's the message, that I'm really That's the on that I want to get across, not that I'm chapped and that I'm out of because, people don't trust that as much. in the end that idea of being trusted. You know if you really want to be an if the other party can trust you. Over the long run, you'll develop that And you'll develop durable agreements, creative solutions, relationships with So, I'm just recommending it as a, mindset than a lot people have towards it. Yeah. [INAUDIBLE]. [COUGH]. North America and Wesson, I worked all Getting angry may or may not work, but The rest of the world, I mean if you're always calm, it translates across Yaah, yes, it's kind of a universal Clarity. Something in some cultures is just an We burned all your credibility. You lose credibility. Yeah, you're seen as an unstable person. Here, people might or might not forgive Depending on the industry. Yeah. Some industries are full of wild people Yeah? We negotiate to an intermediary, an Or an attorney who's actually negotiating use this as a model for find, for Cuz that person can often have a as well because they might act completely, You don't really know exactly what they're Neither. I think you have to be very careful in who I've seen more attorneys foul up deals In fact, I select my attorneys in terms of Are they dealmakers, problem solvers? Or are they sort of egomaniacs who throw, right on every deal point, who have to A lot of times what you'll do in deals is And the attorneys'll fight. And it'll de, destroy the deal and the So, I number one is I try not to have very I don't like. To have agents, brokers, investment bankers, or attorneys negotiating my I like to establish a one on one relationship with the other principal, I really think that's the safest way to And it's the way to create uh,better It's more work in the short run. It's less work in the long run. I think there is a reason that people use these intermediaries and I think they can I think it's always smart to have somebody Because negotiations are these real time and forth, back and forth, back and forth, and it really helps to have somebody, partner, an attorney, or whatever who can So I like to use them in all those things of times I'll say I need to run this past This makes sense to me but let me check the attorney or the tax council or my So you know,I like to have a little bit of So, I use them that way. But I never put them, my attorney will associate with your attorney and make a I think it's very dangerous. Not to say it doesn't work but, yeah. I had this question regarding not, not above or below the median as someone, I'm That's who I am and what,what I'm hearing You know, poker face, try not to get hooked into these things, try not to be Which to me is really like, if you said, best way to negotiate is if you're six And I'm five feet tall. Yeah. So, that, to me it's like okay, that, I I can see how that would be effective, how But you're just not six feet tall. Yeah, I'm not six feet tall. So how do I do that? I think you start out by being yourself. Authenticity is something that will be by the opposing party, which it, which [BLANK_AUDIO] Go back to trust a lot. I'm just saying that the, you can You can, you can keep the swings from so wild and, and that will help you, you Won't make you 6' tall, but it may make &gt;&gt; So it's okay to [CROSSTALK]. &gt;&gt; I, I think you need to be yourself. I mean I'm demonstrative too, I mean speak I, I get excited about idea. I mean it's who I am. So I be, I am that. But I just said there are certain things, thresholds, that I don't wanna cross If I crush those thresholds, I've spent that doesn't return to me what it's worth. So, if you're all over the map, and around realize you're spending something that's and you don't have any place to go. You know, once you've cranked the volume So, leave yourself a place to go and I, I And the final one is be likeable. And I know this is I mean you didn't come But I, when I went through litigation I with, I think it was opposing counsel And he said something like, you know, I I really wanted to be as angry at you as He said, but I couldn't help, but kind of didn't wanted influencing, I'm a did my job but it still had an impact. So I talked to my attorney about it and he says, you know, I've had the same And he'd, he'd, deposed Ivan Boesky, he, I go down the list, people he'd been bunch of them and he said, you know, them were really likeable scoundrels and And others, you know, you just wanted to And so this idea, there is something in even the most jaded professionally trained gladiating for, for a life, you know, says makes a difference if you like the other So I think there is almost no upside in in being a turkey, I just dont' think it Well, we're about out of time, I well, let's just see if we've got anymore of We talked about agents, being of We've talked about lawyers as You know, this is in the far end, or the Whether you mediate, arbitrate, or I guess my advice on that is, they're all And you really want to avoid, you really want durable flexible agreements, If you have to get to these litigation and not that different in terms of, and a little less expensive, but you're of evidence typically to a special master So it's very much the same kinda thing. Mediation. That negotiation is a split the baby So if you're right, you're gonna lose So I think you, you just want to be, so this is again in this very sty stylis, The rules of those negotiations very much So, just be aware. Implementing the agreement, flushing out hidden agenda items, outbursts We've kind of talked about all of those, I So Fisher and Ury. Has everybody in here read, how many of Only a few of you. It may be so old that people don't read It's still the classic book on I would recommend it to all of you who Written in 1981 by Fisher and Ury, two And they talk about their negotiations in And a lot of data on really sort of what They wrote another book called Getting So Getting to Yes is the first one, Actually the second one is much less read. In fact is there anybody in here that's Okay, great. Not very many people have read it. It's actually, I think, even a better more insightful book, if you've done a lot of Those are two really sort of good academic texts that give you a good map. And I can usually tell when I'm with somebody who has studied Ury and It's a different kind of a negotiation. It's actually quite pleasant. So here's the, if you don't want to read it, [LAUGH] here's the Reader's I'm saving you time. You thought you were wasting an hour with Basically, the idea is separate, so here Separate the people from the problem, They merge them, you know? The problem's thorny, therefore I don't The people who have this issue that is the issue or it's putting me in an awkward And so, a lot of confusion, so they say separate those two and focus on interest, Now, in other other words what would you Not what positions are you going to take, take, because positions are not to what are really in your interest. People express positions that may not be the actual end point that reflects their Then invent options together for mutual you think outside the box you invent And then insist if you can, this is the hardest one for me, is figuring out You know what, what would be a winning What would work? And then assess your deal against these That is the hardest one for me, but I've And then finally for me I'd say know your Figure it out, write it out, know it going and my corollary to that is, calculate the So you really know, that it's not life or There are alternatives and you'll be more Now I'm gonna show you there, these are, But if you'll just, this is how they deal Dealing with problems and framing things. So I'm gonna flash this slide up and one up, and then have you think about, what You know, discuss each, don't blame the the situation, you know from their give them a stake in the outcome. You know, don't react to provocation, step respond reflexively, be an active I used to have a friend that I negotiated, I negotiated with, who'd start out every with all of the things we agreed on. So the, you'd go through ten items and We agree on this. And you got in this reflexive habit of Okay, I agree to that. That works. I agree to that. That works. Okay, that's good. And you'd get done to, then number 11 and tough ones. So, these are things that Ury and Fisher And would it, you know? I guess I'll just tell you, because we're My take on this is, this is marriage. [LAUGH] You know, this is how I've made a marriage work for 35 years, is basically And, and most of the relationships you're If you kind of listen to these best life will work better, your relationships your conversations'll be happier, your and most of the time you'll feel like you Most of the time you won't feel dirty, And negotiations won't be just eating your something that gives you life, let's your express creativity and build So, I'll hang around here after if any of to discuss this or have any questions, but [NOISE]