Professor Paul Bloom: You ask people, activity?&quot; particularly college students, spring break - I've seen teen &quot;Sex.&quot; with sex. about how much time we spend on And it turns out there is data So, people say sex is their but it turns out we actually American spends on sex. follow from was summarized in Gleick: their single favorite activity In terms of enjoyability, fishing, bar-hopping, talking with the family, going on trips, gardening, bathing, housework, dishwashing, and getting the car repaired. these same studies suggested to sex is four minutes and three [As Gleick says,] even if the four minutes dancing, ogling, toning up in gyms, rehearsing pick up lines, reading about sex, looking at erotic magazines, dreaming of sex, cleaning up after sex, sex, repressing, transferring, And I like this passage because two important points. that much time on sex. three seconds is an interesting studies on how much Americans forms for the IRS, seconds. that regardless of the brute it is extraordinarily Everything in life follows from family, children, much of competition, creative pursuits. it. sex, everything would be And what's interesting is, sex. reproduce by cloning. this basic fact about people roughly, into males and females It's not clear why animals that sexes. perspective, having two sexes is have an offspring you toss away My children only have--each of If I were to clone, And so, it's a puzzle how sex This is not a course in and that's not the puzzle we're We're going to look at a few First, we're going to talk from view and then an empirical point females are different. sexual attractiveness, find to be sexually attractive, little bit at the end about the why some people are straight, and others harder to classify. presenting, sex is one of the emotional point of view. because sex is, an intimate part of our lives, Moreover, sex is fraught with And since I'm talking about beginning, from a Darwinian I'm obliged to start off by consequences and moral So, for instance, biologists I would say - will behavior, sexual desire is, a biological adaptation From that perspective then, including gay sex, sex by post-menopausal women reproductive goal and, is unnatural. &quot;Does this mean it's wrong?&quot; differences, differences between for instance, sexual encounters, women in social intelligence, And regardless of what you whether you think they're right you'll ask the question, mutable?&quot; Darwinian natural selection, rid of them? issues, the issues of morality from the very start. with--for each of them have a evolutionary scholar. Pinker in How the Mind And he writes, what we should accept or how we Well into my procreating years, childless, having squandered my writing, helping friends and students, circles--ignoring the solemn By Darwinian standards, a pathetic loser, and if my genes don't like it lake. I think, is a reasonable one. we do exist to serve the but that doesn't make them If you think that something is generation of more genes, then you're not going to think You're not going to think very non-procreative sex. if you're--Moreover, if it's unnatural, about flying in a plane or a severe infection. our bodies and brains have success, but we can use these destinies. follows from the facts of That's all I'm going to say But I want you to keep it in claims about what's evolved and What about inevitability? Dawkins. If a child has had bad it is accepted that a resulting extra-good teaching in the But any suggestion that the genetic origin is likely to be approaching despair. it is determined and nothing This is pernicious nonsense on Genetic causes and principle no different from each Some may be harder to reverse, What did genes do to deserve juggernaut-like reputation? much more fixed and inescapable television, nuns or books. And the point here is what separate from what can reverse And you can think of clear genetic but is fairly easily cultural and is very difficult Here's an example. The reason why my eyesight is patriarchy, television, Rather, my eyesight is quite and Dad gave me. anything is. There are these machines where of your eyes and help you to see More advanced machines known as the thing into your eyes, infections you come to see It's biologically caused but On the other hand, treatment of the obese. we'll get to this a little bit attractiveness - how thin what you think of that is hard-wired. culture. it is almost impossible to So, the point, not mean inevitable, to fix. That's general background. What's the difference between Well, don't even think penis There are a lot of animals that And the difference actually By definition, this, animals that are males which carries genes and nothing Animals that are females have a which has genes but also food sorts of other stuff. is much littler than the big sex This is the only erotic picture It's a bunch of these little It's romantic. I just described male and size difference. sex cells; Why is it then that for so many ones, physically, This has been a puzzle that has long time. a pretty clear answer to it. It is based on an idea by investment.&quot; is, it's defined here as, increase the offspring's chance parent's ability to invest in So, for example, an offspring by blinking an eye off? investment. work for ten years, could not create another That would be a huge investment. Trivers points out that within have a much higher parental Because females have these big incubate them internally. If they're eggs, And hence, each potential child For males, which have the small same thing. few moments of copulation and If you could ask yourself, the room, &quot;What is the minimum child that has half your genes?&quot; investment, on average, investment. or might do better off in some of investment into their have a choice. advance, have a huge investment not investment in the sense or though there's that too. when you're--when you're you can't have another. ramifications that percolate So, it leads to different Males--and a single male could forcing some males to go competition to see who can mate For females, find mates. But there's competition to mate those whose offspring have the The competition now explains It explains why males are and often why males have These special weapons evolved reproductive access. Females, biologically, And so males have to compete get reproductive access but also And so often, displays like this , beautiful, only to be attractive This cold evolutionary logic which really does sum up a research. The logic goes like this then: cells leads to differences in leading to differences in the physiological mechanisms that Okay, that's a good story. for it? explain some otherwise For instance, cases where the parental some cases where it turns more investment than the And it--and the theory predicts get an asymmetry. for instance, pouch and plugs them into his The females shoot off. than the males. you would predict, be larger, the females fight fight males, for the attention of the males. Penguins.&quot; and this was in the context of have evolved toward our But remember the story and how have to go to tremendous lengths And if one of them fails, has it. to remember whether male female penguins. not be, and in fact they aren't. because the parental is equal. the size differences and differing parental investment. elephant seals are four They're four times bigger than And this is in large part for harems of females. Gibbons are about the same size. pretty monogamous; This illustrates something, case that male parental There are some species, where it's in the male's for the offspring. for instance, both parents didn't watch it for devoted to that offspring had to If you focused on another the offspring would die. you'd have equal investment. male and the female to invest in and the cost would be the same. to see species that have that but some primates are close to And this raises the question What about us? differences between males and Well, humans are a relatively Most cultures--most human American culture is what they So, we're not like some species We don't mate for life. for some period of time. but indeed may not be and Males are bigger than females. vary so much, about fifteen percent larger This suggests that there's in our evolutionary history, access to females, in turn, that the parental Males have smaller testicles chimpanzees, but larger gibbons. was some intermediate amount of create sperm. different sort of competition, of females that have multiple And this suggests that over not wantonly promiscuous, monogamous either; evolutionary point of view to capacity to produce more sperm Aggression. I mean I'm summarizing here. Yes, females can be meaner, physically violent. womb, in utero; children, and they're more Again, this is not to say that non-violent men. this difference. males kick more in the uterus. involved in play fighting and And as adults, prison. find that prison is mostly full They are far more likely to another. like testosterone, would want to inject in somebody kind of mean. both in humans and in other What about sexual choosiness? humans differ in the extent to sex? evolutionary perspective, theory predicts males should be Because for males, might fortuitously lead to it might be good for you and that females, have to be very picky. carefully. before birth control and So, what do we know psychologically? universally, or near There are male prostitutes, various fantasies and sitcoms, Pornography is a human In every society, depictions of naked females for Often they carve them into One of the weirdest findings in this extends as well to monkey And so, some scientists at Duke could pay in fruit juice, to look a picture either of the celebrity monkey, some sort of combination of Penthouse. in this even by non-human What about actually preference Well, you can get at this in There is what biologists Effect.&quot; And the Coolidge Effect is Coolidge. Coolidge and his wife, farm separately. his wife pointed out that there she noticed that there were a rooster. her around, &quot;Is one rooster And the guys said, the rooster works very hard. times a day.&quot; &quot;Well, be sure to tell that to The story goes, the guy tells the story to the The president asks the man, Has sex dozens of times each Same hen every time?&quot; &quot;No, different hen every time.&quot; &quot;Tell that to Mrs. Now, there are two responses to and they're both kind of One thing is, prefer anonymous sex with Duh.&quot; &quot;That's sexist claptrap.&quot; male and say, You might know males and say, that.&quot; Well, there are indirect prostitutes. direct measures. you could ask people in So, in fact, surveys. And you just ask them. I want everybody to consider How many sexual partners do you What is it--we're coming up to How many sexual partners do you Next two years? graduation. what do you want--like, and that's what I wanted.&quot; We get people to answer these Professor Chun last year in and he got people to do it. so we'll just do it in our But here is the way the answers Women say less than one in the That doesn't mean they want that means many of them--many some say one and so on. Men--two, eight, eighteen. from this population. &quot;Would you have sex with a known--so somebody really women say yes, week or less--no. you could get a majority going This is all Q &amp; things. actually done experiments. somebody--I don't, thing which you probably This work has been done ten incredibly attractive man and an they approach people on campus. they're actors brought in. to strangers, &quot;I've been noticing you around I find you very attractive. tonight? apartment tonight? tonight?&quot; think anybody would've done has very attractive man, approached say, Very few agree to this [&quot;Would tonight?&quot;], and nobody agrees to me tonight?&quot;]. this, they go up to there and In this study, males who said &quot;no&quot; apologized and they said, my fiance's in town, What about behavior? in sex differences, what people want, by looking at simply at the have sex because if males and priorities, compromise between two groups of What's a more clear reflection women or between two men, reflection of sexual desire. very messy. but by and large every study in the expected direction, be--lesbians tend to be much Some studies prior to AIDS - found gay men to be extremely often having over a hundred or You wouldn't find this sort of And a way to think about this is exactly what your average had that degree of willing he was. there's some sort of difference choosiness in humans. attractiveness? What do we find attractive? studies, here we actually have data. for instance, thirty-seven countries, &quot;Who do you want to be with?&quot; studies, some of them asking, Other studies, Who do you want as a sexual And one main finding is kind of kindness and intelligence, like kindness and intelligence. But at the same time, Females focus more on power and investing in children. evolutionary point of view and It doesn't matter hugely, reproduction, The difference between fifteen and forty-five may matter a lot his physical strength, standpoint of his sperm it Later on there's a drop off and but it doesn't matter hugely. interest in being a good father, predation, from assault by other people, Women's brains are wired up to properties. bit differently. of these things, children. of view, there's actually a very twenty-year old and a fifty-year from a male standpoint looking have offspring and the other So, this is a difference. on right now is back to another Everybody likes beauty. bit of this lecture to talking Physical beauty, is a curse. a supermodel, super-supermodel--points out the devastatingly beautiful. frustrating it is that people and focus merely on his physical This is very frustrating. What does this mean we say we yeah, they really are very What is it about that that &quot;Yeah, that makes sense?&quot; answer. Beauty seems to signal two Beauty seems to signal youth--I but youth like sexually mature And so the cues we find large eyes, full lips, Beauty signals something else. And so what we find beautiful, deformities, clear eyes, intact teeth - that's very And that last part might seem a What would be so good about an And there are different answers an average face, considered attractive because variations from the average. together, you get a face happened to it. there's no deviation. the face gets less symmetrical Average-ness seems to factor could happen. How do we know it's true? that comes--that I have access So, I can look at each of your bet about who has the most The bet is it would be all of Aw. shouted out somebody's name? A) I don't have the energy to probably violate four hundred whatever. and morphed them together, And how do we know this? They've done it with--so look And if you are like most to the right they're looking It's subtle, that babies don't notice it. constructed this--these faces, have shown these faces to prefer to look at average preference for averaging is not rather is to some extent These two people don't exist. They're a heavily averaged male female face, both from a They don't look bad right? They don't cheat. for instance, don't--you can't use hair cues. But the story of attractiveness How do you get a better than What can you do to these faces, and make them look even better? Who's prettier? Who says the one on the left? and there might be variation in There are definitely variations This is a feminized version of prototype features were made cue this as more of a sexual This is more complicated. Who thinks face A is more Who thinks face B is more Okay. The exception is, replicated, I think, Face A is preferred by women and the story about why is beyond the scope of this class. this is a really handsome guy; he looks strong, this guy is really hot, provider and everything, genes. have sex with him and then have We've talked so far about attractiveness largely from a looking at universals. there are some universals in common and what distinguishes And in some of the sex related to aggression and mate universal. extent across every culture you are likely candidates for But there are other sex aware of where the origins are And I think that intelligent, disagree about this, skeptical about the extent to I'll mention them to capture keep in mind here is that natural selection, this class might differ from the But of course, social, factors. There have been many studies swaddle it in blue and describe pink and describe it as a girl, when they think it's a boy than You're treated differently too. study after study suggesting, that when you send an email or a scientific journal, name John Smith on it versus the It matters because people have different reactions to males Some if you may have firsthand man with a name that could be friend of mine is named Lynn, female - or if you're a woman taken as a man's name, sufficiently foreign to Western tell. saying, &quot;Oh,&quot; people are --you'll often find some degree people saying, a man. differently.&quot; could play a role in explaining differences. gender self-segregation. interesting happens Males segregate with other females segregate with other it depends on the culture, eleven. exaggerate and enhance sex It might be, as Eleanor Maccoby has more aggressive than girls. boys, and that enhances and while the girls' non-aggressive exaggerated in different ways by So, what sort of differences we're not sure of their cause? empathy. wonderful book called The he argues that men are by nature women are by nature more core sex difference. Well, what's the source for One thing is men are more Simon Baron-Cohen describes act--murder as the ultimate act There's some relationship you have in your system and how testosterone, Boys tend to be less empathetic evidence, though it's not that boys do worse than girls mind tasks. though that is quite debated. which isn't debated at all, problems of social cognition, than in women. autism, Asperger's Syndrome, psychopathy are predominately And Simon Baron-Cohen suggests he has this slogan where he from a particularly mild form of That males are just socially Final bit of trivia--This is who is a very famous but his cousin Sasha Baron Another debate is a debate the capacity for math and A few years ago there used to as Larry Summers. hiss at this point. president of Harvard for various quote, speculations about sex case of science and engineering, aptitude, and particularly of He argued, or suggested, of women in the sciences in intrinsic aptitude difference; less biologically predisposed The variability point is that there's just a difference on In fact, he agreed that the are identical. more variation. male retarded people and more at this, but it also means there And he suggested that this This, as you can imagine, controversial claim, - because it would take me a of this argument responsibly - wonderful debate between Steve who was quoted earlier, big infant cognition people. work earlier on in the course. debate between two of the Edge, a year ago and is on video here So, if you're interested in sex theories about the mechanism of this is where you should go. some of us, about 98%--and the pin down. maybe it's ninety-seven, Let's say 98% of women are About 96% of men are sexually And the numbers vary and it's properly. there are all sorts of problems But there's some proportion of exclusively homosexual--some men who are only attracted to some proportion of the attracted to other women. orientation here, are not talking here about There are all sorts of reasons somebody of the same sex. You may, you know, be whatever. &quot;What do you want to do?&quot; what sort of person--if you romantically involved with any And most people are There's a considerable amount people who are bisexual. exclusive homosexuality. Well, nobody knows. some answers are probably not It is not the case, there are some exceptions - people choose their sexual I'm not going to do this in people to raise their hands as to become sexually attracted to, Part of the issue rises in the often extremely discriminated to be gay. morally wrong for them to be That makes it implausible that conscious choice. puberty? coming up over and over again in are gay have in some sense been by other people--or something This seems unlikely. seeds of sexual orientation quite early in life. suspect, but there's some reason gay and people who are straight hit puberty with regard to their You would now expect me to say, straight is built in. None of these stories seem It seems to be built in.&quot; sort of. behavioral genetic tests, them--you'd look for differences dizygotic twins, comparison--you know adopted siblings. you find that there is some towards homosexuality. genetic. entirely genetic is, identical twin, will be gay--it's about fifty Those are very high odds population. entirely genetic, A hundred percent - he's my He should be exactly as I am. So, we know then that some sort possibly prenatal experience, Why is it so - I said before it such a huge puzzle? is an evolutionary mystery. carries any moral weight to it. that it doesn't seem to follow The puzzle is not why is it That's not a big puzzle. some sort of recreational things That's not the puzzle. some men who don't want to have Similarly, why are there some with men? standpoint, you would think that a behavior would be weeded out behavior typically, technology, don't have And that's what makes it such a So, your reading response for puzzle.&quot; course that reading responses require you reciting back but that proved to be too So, just solve this deepest of The thing in brackets at the Your account, should bear some relationship lectures and readings. Any questions or thoughts? Student: Professor Paul Bloom: She likes my leather jacket. just like that one? Yes? My question's not exactly like do they--is there similar data Professor Paul Bloom: On That's a very good question the origin - give me two more answer about the origin of be informed by the question of What we do know is that there homosexual behavior; of their own sex. you get exclusive homosexual So, I don't know what the rate for instance, have sex with members of the Okay, I'll see you all