What a challenge! To talk to one of the most, in life, we've seen, great people, like Al-Khawarizmi Globally, Newton. Henry Ford, the Wright Brothers, Albert Einstein and Elon Musk. See, you are in rush, You want to go to places You are re-inventing a certain industry, from the rocket industry with SpaceX What's your life mission? Sure, first of all, thank you for having me. It's an honor to be here. And I'm having a really great time It's really been fantastic. anyone who hasn't been to visit, Thank you. And, in terms of the motivations, I used to like this sort of... kind of a long version of the explanation essentially, when I was a kid I was Like, why are we here? And I came to the conclusion trying to understand the right questions And the more that we can increase the scope the better we're able to ask And... So, I think there are certain things to ensure that the future is good. And... some of those things are long term sustainable transport And to be a space exploring civilization. And for humanity to be out there And be a multi-planetary species. I think that being a multi-planetary species is important for the long term And, that's one reason, for life collectively. But then the part that I find personally it creates a sense of adventure, and it makes people excited about the future. If you consider two futures, one where until eventually something terrible happens. Or another future where we are out there maybe even going beyond the solar system. I think that space invasion And there need to be reasons to get up You know, life can't just be about Otherwise, what's the point? There's got to be things and make life worth living. So, what is life for you? I mean, you look at our life, Is it a dream? Is it real? What is life for Elon Musk? I find that as I get older maybe more and more confusing Particularly when you see the advancement You know, 40 years ago, you had video games, like Pong, when you had two rectangles And you're like batting it back and forth. - I played it. - Us all. Yeah, we both played the same game. And that was like a pretty fun game But now, you can see a video game that's and millions of people And, and you see where things are going And augmented reality if you extrapolate that out into the future like keeping 0.1% of something then eventually those games will be They'll be so realistic you won't be able that game and reality as we know it. And then, it seems like, well, how do we know that that didn't happen And that we're not in one Interesting. Interesting. I mean, it could be. Everything is possible in life. I mean there's... Yeah, particularly like things tend to be Isn't it? I mean, if we look at our life, it seems in the past 100 years - Yeah. - It's getting faster and faster. So, my question is really, Our education, our transport. Well, I think this is one of those things When you think of, say, the first controlled with the Wright Brothers. And then, 66 years later I mean, if you asked people, what are the odds of landing on the moon If you try to talk to them they wouldn't know What are you talking about? But today, with a hundred-dollar device with anyone in the world. On the other side of the world, it's basically free. You're free to have an instant visual or even with millions of people. You know, with social media you can simultaneously. So, and you can google something It's like an oracle of wisdom, that you can ask almost any questions It would be incredibly difficult to predict Even the relatively recent past. So, I think the one thing that we can be is that any predictions we make today will be wrong That's for sure. I can tell you what I hope the future has, This may just be wishful thinking. I mean I hope we are out there on Mars I hope we're traveling frequently perhaps preparing for missions I think all of that is possible in 50 years. And I think it's going to be And, I think we'll see autonomy advance tremendously. Like that's actually quite near term. My guess is in probably 10 years, it will be very unusual for cars to be built - 10 years. Yeah. I think almost all cars built in about 10 years. As it is, the Tesla cars that are made today, have the sensor system necessary And we think probably enough compute So, it's mostly just the question and uploading the software. And if it turns out that we can easily upgrade the computer. And, so that's all Teslas built And other manufacturers will follow So, getting in a car will be like You just tell it where you want to go with extreme levels of safety. And that will be normal, Like, for elevators, You get in, there will be a guy Now, you just get in, you press the button So, autonomy will be wide-spread. I think one of the most troubling questions And I don't mean narrow AI, like, vehicle autonomy I would put It's narrowly trying to achieve But deep artificial intelligence, or what is sometimes called where you can have AI that is much smarter This, I think, is a dangerous situation. Why is it dangerous? one view is that artificial intelligence and there's another artificial intelligence - Why is that? You know, it's like... one way to think of it is imagine imagine you're very confident super intelligent aliens, in let's say 10 years or 20 years - Super intelligent. - Yeah... Well, digital super intelligence - It will be like an alien. But my question is, do you think there is other intelligent life It seems probable. I think this is one of the great questions is, where are the aliens? Maybe they are among us, I don't know. Some people think I'm an alien. Not true. - Not true. Maybe we aliens. I mean, Yeah. They believe that human beings they came from somewhere else. Eve and Adam came from somewhere else So, in a way, human beings Do you think we'll make contact with aliens Well, that's a really tough one to say. If there are they're probably already observing us. That would seem quite likely But I can do some back and... any advanced alien civilization in populating the galaxy, even without exceeding the speed of light, even if you're only moving at, say, you could populate the entire galaxy Maybe 20 million years max. This is nothing in the grand scheme Once you said you wanted to die on Mars. To be clear, I don't want to die on Mars. It's like, if... and if you're going to pick then why not Mars? You know, if you're born on Earth, Seems like may be quite exciting. But, I think given the choice between dying I'd say, yeah, sure, I'll die on Mars. But it's not some kind of Mars death wish. And if I do die on Mars, I just don't want Let's come back to Earth, actually. You tweeted that you are building Why? What is it? - It's a secret plot. - Just between us. Yeah, exactly, let's keep that a secret. I think this is going to sound a little... I mean, it seems like so much I've been saying this for many years now the solution to urban congestion And when I say that I don't mean I mean tunnels that go many levels deep. So, you can always go deeper Like, the deepest mines are deeper So, you can have a network of tunnels as many levels as you want, really. And so, given that, you can overcome in any city in the world. The challenge is how do you build tunnels and with high safety? So, if tunnel technology can be improved you can build tunnels fast, cheap and safe, then that would completely get rid And so, that's why I think And, Washington D.C., L.A most major cities in the world suffer And it's mostly because you've these tall buildings that are 3-D and you And then, people generally want to go at the exact same time. So, then, you get the traffic jam. Let's come back to... your year in Dubai. The first time I met you it was at your office in SpaceX. And, I asked you would you have a presence And your answer was: I'm busy with China. Maybe not in the near future, we are here, seems time goes quite fast. Why now? I think actually things are going So, we have some initial challenges and service infrastructure now it's actually going really well, so the timing seems to be good in this region, In your opinion, what is the new that will come next in technology? - What's next in technology? the way we think, Well, the most near to impact is autonomous cars, like fully I'd say that's going to happen so, and that's... it's going to be a great convenience but there are many people So, if... in fact I think it might be of people is driving in various forms. And so, then we need to figure out But it will all be very disruptive I should characterize what I mean Because there are... Quick means different things There are about two billion vehicles Approaching in fact 2.5 billion cars The total new vehicle production capacity Which makes sense, before it's finally scraped So, so the point at which we see will not be the point at which because it will take a long time to disrupt employment. So, that disruption I'm talking about Still, 20 years is a short period of time 12 to 15 per cent of the world force Thank you. This is the largest global government summit If you want to advise government officials what three pieces of advice Well, I think the first bit of advice the development of artificial intelligence. I think this is, we need to be just how we adopt artificial intelligence, and to make sure that researchers because sometimes what happens engrossed in their work, they don't necessarily realize the So, I think it's important for public safety you know, governments keep a close eye and make sure that it does not represent Let's see, secondly I would say we do need to think about transport And, there's the movement towards sustainable transport, I think that's going to be good not something that happens immediately, the self-driving vehicles. Because that's probably something The transition to electric vehicles. So, thinking about that in context... the demand for electricity So, currently, in terms of total it's about 1/3, about 1/3 transport, So, over time that will transition not all, but predominantly electricity, which means that the demand So, it's going to be very important so much more electricity And... It seems they'll have an easy job, there are no more challenges for them. No, well, I think maybe... these things do play into each other but what to do about mass unemployment? This is going to be a massive And I think ultimately will have to have I don't think we're going to have a choice. - Universal basic income. I think it's going to be necessary. So, it means that unemployed people - Yeah. Machines, robots are taking over. There will be fewer and fewer jobs That's simply... And I want to be clear, these are not These are simply things that I think And so, if my assessment is correct then we need to say what are we going And I think some kind of universal basic Now, the output of goods and services So, with automation, there will come abundance. There will be... almost everything The... So... I think the biggest... a universal basic income. The harder challenge, is how do people then have meaning? Like a lot of people they derive so, if you don't have... if there's not a need for your labor, what's the meaning? That's a much harder problem And then how do we ensure that the future That we so like. You know, I mean do think path here which is, I'm really getting into science fiction But, having some sort of merger and machine intelligence. To some degree, we are already You think of like the digital tools your phone and your computer, Like the fact that as I mentioned earlier and instantly get an answer And, and so you already have I say touchery because you can think kind of the animal brain or the primal brain kind of the thinking, planning and then your digital self So, you already have that, their digital ghost is still around. All of their e-mails and the pictures That still lives, even if they died. So, over time I think we'll probably see a closer merger of biological intelligence And it's mostly about the bandwidth, the speed of the connection between the digital extension of yourself. Particularly output, you know, we used to have keyboards now we do most of our input And, that's just very slow. A computer can communicate at a trillion but your thumb can maybe do if you're being generous. So, some high bandwidth interface something that helps between human and machine intelligence the control problem I'm getting pretty esoteric here, It's close, we got it. Always you think out of the box. Your ideas are so huge. You want to go to space, You decided that you wanted - you failed, 7 times, 8 times? - Then it landed. How do you come with these ideas? Sometimes they are pushing You are always pushing Well, I... I think about what technology solution that particular goal, and then try to make as much progress So, in the case of space flight, that's necessary in space flight, is rapid incomplete reusability of rockets. Just as we have for air crafts. You can imagine that if an air craft almost no one would fly. Because you can buy like, say, 250 million Dollars, 300 million Dollars, You need two of them But nobody is going to pay millions To do air travel. So, but because you can re-use the... Air travel becomes much more affordable. And, the same is true of rockets. 60 million Dollars, roughly. So, a capital cost if it can be used once But if the capital cost if it can be used So, then if you can carry a lot of people then you can get the cost of space flight from the cost of air flight. So, it's truly fundamental, because earth gravity is quite deep. Earth has a fairly high gravity. The difficulty of making a rocket reusable is much greater than the difficulty That's why a fully reusable rocket But if you use the most advanced materials, the most advanced design techniques, and you get everything just right, then I'm confident that you can do Fortunately, if Earth gravity I would say it wouldn't be impossible. You need a team around you How do you choose your team? Well, I suppose honestly that it tends to be So, when I interview somebody, the main questions are always What do you ask? I say: Tell me the story of your life. And, the decisions that you made and why you made them. And then, and also tell me about some of the most and how you solved them. And, that question I think is very important, the people that really solved the problem, they know exactly how they solved it. They know the little details. And the people that pretended they can maybe go one level So, what was your biggest challenge Biggest challenge in life? - No challenge? I'm trying to sort which is the worst. I think just thinking One of the biggest challenges I think a corrective feedback loop, and then maintaining that corrective even when people won't to tell you - That's very difficult. Time is over. If you allow me. In the World Government Summit so many people from... from across the Globe. If you have an advice to them, young people globally What's your advice to them? I think that probably - You? Okay. Yeah, it's not as much fun being me - I don't know. It could be worse, for sure. But it's... I'm not sure I want to be me. Okay. But... You know, I think my advice is if you want I think that the best analytical framework for, I'll say I'd recommend studying Like, not just the equations, but the way of thinking in physics, for understanding things And, you know, always take the position and your goal is to be One of the biggest mistakes people is wishful thinking. You know, like you want something And so you ignore the things that... You ignore the real truth, This is a very difficult trap to avoid. And like I said, it's certainly one that But, if you just take that approach of that and your goal is to be less wrong. And solicit critical feedback, Like, friends, if somebody loves you They don't want to tell you So, you have to ask them And then they will tell you. Thank you very much. It's been... It's great for the World Government Summit who's creating the future to share his thoughts, his ideas, and his hope for life. Thanks for having me.