Cultures that foreground ecological the ones that are truly sustainable and We are creatures of place and if we don't absolutely annihilate every place for The story I guess we're telling is our from what I've called a hyper-techno-civility. Which is a hyper-urban, technologically-focused, ecologically-deficit culture. I guess why we were drawn to permaculture all those years ago was that permaculture was a way back to have a connection with the things We live on Dja Dja Wurrung country in 130 kilometers northwest of Melbourne who's 5 and Zero our Jack Russell. And we call our property Tree Elbow. Which is a quarter-acre permaculture plot that we've been working on for about 10 years. It was a bare, denuded, bulldozed plot and affordability of it. And are very privileged to be able to live here in this part of the world but also to have access to It was step-by-step, there's been lots of things that we've given up. We talk about the pivotal moment, we call it the bin-liner moment. So we had a rubbish bin, scraps and our chook scraps and We'd put things in the rubbish bin and it was always in a bin-liner and then one day we realized that we didn't need a bin liner realizing what we didn't All of a sudden was like 'wow we don't and then it was trying to live without really need supermarkets and then cars. The average Australian car costs around wear-and-tear, petrol, licences, That's NRMA and RACV figures and quoted a few years ago that over two cars so effectively the spending $30,000 on car use We will go to just a kilometer up the where we get a lot of our materials to firewood that's just discarded there and that on bikes with bike trailers. And then over the last year we've turned have gas hot water, gas heating, it was slowly like we actually don't We were putting the other things in place over a So to have a wood heater in heat our hot water, cook our food, Going without is actually saying yes So going without cars means I don't 10 years ago. I can actually stay at home, I also run a bush school. So you're pretty much five days and community economy, I'm pretty much And so I work two days a week for in his office doing publicity We have this small mortgage which and we service that mortgage with a little the permie love shack and Our household income is under $30,000 so it's considerably lower live extremely richly because At the moment our bank is our at this time of the year and our But our knowledge bank can unless, you know, until we die. So teaching our kids that the most our knowledges and those knowledges nothing whatsoever to do with money, things that we face in the future and So money to us is not wealth at all. community time, and knowledges, There's over probably 150 species here locally that - mostly feral or weed species - that We haven't eaten out of the supermarket We can't be self-sufficient here on a wouldn't want to be. We talk about it in terms of So there's lots of batering and other community friends. We're members of a food co-op. We hold regular working bees at the while they're not high productive gardens, they are learning and social spaces. Each day is an adventure and I think having a child in the house, for Woody to wake How big's that? I've been using a knife since I was three. And I said to him last week as I 'how did it feel to be to be you today?' 'how did it feel to be living your life?' and he said 'Mum it was beautiful'. So I think just having a child to remind end of each day from working so hard but There's no doubting our privilege in this situation. We're privileged to have quarter of an I think the responsibility people who live better, is to learn and pay local Aboriginal culture, is to live positive carbon impacts, and look after It fills us with joy to live with that the terrible things going on. For us it does make a difference With every bit of salt that add for every shovel in the ground it makes a difference. This is not for everybody this is and how we're responding to the world. That's really important that we are just a response to the predicament of our time. And it might not be meaningful for other people who are mapping out for carbon positive future, but for us this this feels resilient, this feels Yeah vital and this feels like a very Hey everyone thanks for watching Creatures of Place. I'm Antoinette and this is Jordan and if you've been following us for a while you'll know that Creatures of Place is our been busy making a future film, on YouTube making more short films. We wanted to say a special thanks to everyone who has contributed to making these films, we If you want to help us keep supporting us on Patreon, even just a If you haven't seen our feature film Living please feel free to send your feedback from you and your feedback makes us and Thanks for tuning in guys we hope as we are making them.