Thank you to Squarespace for Supporting PBS. It's the job of physicists to worry about have stressed about more than any other. That number is 0.00729735256 - approximately This is the fine structure constant, and it physics, and we're still trying to figure The fine structure constant, designated as of the many constants of nature Like the speed of light, the gravitational But there's something so weird and so compelling of quantum mechanics obsessed over it. Paul Dirac called it "the most Wolfgang Pauli said, "When I die my first meaning of the fine structure constant?" Even Richard Feyman pondered its mysteries In 1985 he wrote that &quot;all good theoretical and worry about it.&quot; But what is it about this one number that of savants? Before we get to that, let me tell you the As with much of quantum mechanics, it started flicked between energy levels in atoms. This process results in the emission of photons lines - sharp peaks in the light observed wavelengths. For example this is the spectrum of Hydrogen. Hydrogen atoms only emit light with these Other elements have other spectral lines. Explaining spectral lines was a major driver one of its first great successes, first with then the Schrodinger equation for heavier But there was a problem. As our measurement apparatus improved, we saw a little off the calculated values, and moreover of two lines at almost but It was Arnold Sommerfeld who managed to explain Einstein's still-new relativity, as well with opposite spins are separated slightly magnetic fields. Sommerfeld found something peculiar: that lines was always a multiple of one particular divided by four times pi, the permittivity of light. OK, big deal. We see combinations of these sorts of important But the weird thing with this particular How can that be? The charge of the electron is in Couloumbs, vacuum permittivity and Planck's constant But when you bring these together all units We're left with just a number - a pure number. This number just happens to be 1/137.035999, If this number only appeared in the formula lines it would be just a fun oddity, except For example, the repulsive energy between with wavelength equal to the And the orbital speed of an electron in the atom is 137 slower than the speed of light. And the energy of that ground state electron electron by a factor of 137 squared. And that's just the tip of the iceberg for in the laws of physics. There's no obvious reason that these various be 1/137, or 137 to some power. It's clear the number is trying to tell and now more than 100 years after Sommerfeld to tell you what it means. Except ... I can't, because we still don't But we do at least have a few ideas. To explore them, let's talk about couplings. Whenever two particles get close to each other can interact in many different ways, which We have an episode about those if you're These diagrams are used to of particles interacting by all the different ways that interaction could happen. Those probabilities depend on many things, spins, charges, masses, etc. These factors multiply a sort of base probability That base probability comes from the coupling And that's exactly what the it's the coupling strength of the electromagnetic force. The square of alpha is the base probability or in the case of two electrons interacting by, at each vertex, each interaction between electron other parameters I mentioned. So the Fine Structure Constant sets the The more chance of interaction between the of an EM disturbance each electron will make. So it's starting to make sense why the fine formulas that depend on the electromagnetic force. But the big questions still remains: why does this specific combination of other fundamental When I say that alpha takes on a specific Sometimes it doesn't. In fact the fine structure constant isn't It changes with the energy of the interaction. The higher the energy, the larger the constant. In the insane energies right after the Big - which was then joined with the other forces, dropped to lower values as the energy We're now at the bottom of the energy scale, out at 1/137.035999. But there's no reason that we know of that rather than stopping at this minimum value - an alpha=0 would mean no electromagnetism, other inconveniences like no atoms. And actually we're luckier than you think. This constant sets the size of atoms - a larger making them more tightly bound and less A smaller value would mean electrons were less stable. It's been estimated that if the fine structure carbon would never have formed We don't know why our universe value for the fine structure constant or many of the other fundamental constants. Many physicists believe that these constants of the universe. It would be surprising that they landed on of life - unless of course there are many, constants. Then it's not surprising at all that we of producing us. We've talked about this But the fact that the fine structure constant thing about it. The weirdest thing is that it's dimensionless. Imagine you were able to send a very short Just a handful of bits - enough to encode What number would you choose to ensure they species? You could try the various constants of nature The problem is, most of these constants Transmit, say, the value for the speed of to explain what a meter and a second are. Try the gravitational or Planck's constant There's no way for the alien civilization our units for distance, time, mass, electric But the fine structure constant is unitless. It's equal to 1/137-ish for everyone in Even if you just transmit the number 137, up. That's handy for interstellar communication, -seriously- up with the fine structure constant. Being unitless on its own isn't something special. We can come up with all sorts of unitless with the same units, like the ratio of the mass of the electron and of friction of an inclined plane. But these things don't pop up in all these constant does. So what do we make of this number that is Let's start by thinking about the similarly actually have units. Those units tell us a lot about what those They tell us that the constants of nature For example, the speed of light is the translation time in relativity; it's also the relationship equation. The gravitational constant is the relationship force, Planck's Constant is the relationship and velocity. The list goes on. The relationship is defined by the units of But without any units, it's not immediately Constant represents. So here's an idea: perhaps this odd little number represents a relationship If the other constants of nature tie various fine structure constant is what ties those Think about it this way - if the constants and were set independently to each other - be any one way of combining them Sure, you could find a combo where the units have physical significance. The fact that this canceling gives the fine constant also represents the relationship universe, seems to be telling us something. It hints at a connection between the other an underlying common mechanism that set the Or perhaps it hints at a deeper connection between the properties of like the mass and charge of the electron. Finally, it could be that the fine structure mathematical one, like pi, but perhaps we our mathematics are not advanced enough yet This is pretty speculative, but the specialness of And we've been speculating on this problem number popped up again and again in Back to Richard Feynman one last time. He called the fine structure constant of physics" and Poetically mused that "the hand of God wrote the pencil." In other words, to build a universe it may in the beginning and from it all And perhaps that number was 1/137, the fine rules of this particular space time. Thank you to Squarespace for Supporting PBS. Squarespace is a website With Squarespace, you can connect with your members-only content. Users can manage members, and leverage audience insights all in one platform. Users can also create community with a Squarespace system that supports threaded Squarespace extensions help products and streamline bookkeeping. With Squarespace, you can display social media to your preferred social accounts. Go to Squarespace.com for a free trial.