What started as a platform for hobbyists is poised to become Inspection, environmental monitoring, these are some of the potential and their enablers at research facilities around the world. For example, before aerial entered our social consciousness, an autonomous fleet of flying machines composed of 1,500 bricks in front of a live audience and several years ago, By tethering flying machines, they can achieve high speeds They can also autonomously build Skills learned include how to carry loads, how to cope with disturbances, and in general, how to interact Today we want to show you some Their aim is to push the boundary with autonomous flight. Now, for a system to function it must collectively know the location Back at our lab at ETH Zurich, we often use external cameras which then allows us to focus our efforts on the rapid development For the demos you will see today, however, we will use new localization technology a spin-off from our lab. There are no external cameras. Each flying machine uses onboard sensors and onboard computation The only external commands such as &quot;take off&quot; and &quot;land.&quot; This is a so-called tail-sitter. It's an aircraft that tries Like other fixed-wing aircraft, much more so than helicopters Unlike most other it is capable of hovering, which has huge advantages and general versatility. There is no free lunch, unfortunately. One of the limitations with tail-sitters is that they're susceptible We're developing new control that address this limitation. The idea is for the aircraft to recover no matter what state it finds itself in, and through practice, (Applause) OK. When doing research, we often ask ourselves that try to get at the heart of a matter. For example, one such question would be, what is the minimum number of moving parts Now, there are practical reasons why you may want to know Helicopters, for example, are affectionately known all conspiring to do you bodily harm. It turns out that decades ago, skilled pilots were able to fly that had only two moving parts: a propeller and a tail rudder. We recently discovered This is the monospinner, the world's mechanically simplest invented just a few months ago. It has only one moving part, a propeller. It has no flaps, no hinges, no ailerons, no other actuators, just a simple propeller. Even though it's mechanically simple, there's a lot going on to allow it to fly in a stable fashion Even so, it doesn't yet have the sophisticated algorithms which means that in order I have to throw it just right. And because the probability given everybody watching me, what we're going to do instead is show you a video (Laughter) (Applause) If the monospinner this machine here, the omnicopter, is an exercise in excess. What can you do with all this surplus? The thing to notice As a result, it is ambivalent This gives it an extraordinary capability. It can move anywhere it wants in space irrespective of where it is facing and even of how it is rotating. It has its own complexities, mainly having to do from its eight propellers. Some of this can be modeled, Let's take a look. (Applause) If flying machines are going they will need to become This machine over here is actually two separate This one wants to spin clockwise. This other one wants When you put them together, they behave like one If anything goes wrong, however -- a motor fails, a propeller fails, the machine can still fly, We're going to demonstrate this to you now (Applause) This last demonstration is an exploration of synthetic swarms. The large number of autonomous, offers a new palette We've taken commercially available each weighing less and outfitted them and custom algorithms. Because each unit and is self-controlled, there is really no limit to their number. (Applause) (Applause) (Applause) Hopefully, these demonstrations new revolutionary roles That ultrasafe one over there for example has aspirations to become (Laughter) The reality is that it is the impact of nascent technology. And for folks like us, the real reward It's a continual reminder of how wonderful and magical that it allows creative, clever creatures to sculpt it in such spectacular ways. The fact that this technology has such huge commercial is just icing on the cake. Thank you. (Applause)