A Man Was Kissed By His Dog. This Is How His JD is a 63 year old man, presenting to the breath. He tells the admitting nurse that purplish 3 days ago, and the feeling in his right leg, JD was a healthy 63 year old. He hadn't traveled anywhere. Whatever was happening to him, was something At examination, bruise-like spots were found present. If you put these together with fever and shortness ago, then this kind of looks like an infection. Good thing he didn't have a headache with mean meningitis, which is an infection that A blood test reveals that JD has lymphocytopenia. Lympho derived from Latin lympha, the goddess white blood cell that fights infection. Cyto meaning cell. And Penia meaning deficiency of. A deficiency of white blood cells that fight This was combined with an increase in blood inflammation, meaning that his immune system There was definitely something, going on. Additional tests revealed JD had thrombocytopenia. Thrombo from Ancient Greek thrombos to a clot of blood. A deficiency of blood clot cells. This makes sense, because more markers reveal The liver is supposed to make blood clotting get a cut. A dysfunctional liver, means those this fits with thrombocytopenia, giving the happening because It's found that JD has acute kidney injury. in his body, meaning that his muscles were muscle proteins get caught in his kidneys is only the start of his problems. When you work out, your muscles produce lactic activity. But for JD, so much lactic acid And there was no indication that he was doing Meaning that large parts of his body might with demand for normal function. Without taking but a fever and skin reaction, this could bacterial presence in blood. The fever. The liver dysfunction. The dissolving up to a medical emergency with impending life in to the hospital. Multiple antibiotics were started empirically. know exactly what bacteria is floating around to cover as much as they can during this time. The reason this is done is because figuring will take days. Samples need to be collected needs to be grown and cultured to get a measurable will take, are days that JD doesn't have, of him, and his organs are shutting down. As the hours pass, JD's mental status starts This encephalopathy means that his liver isn't failure. More monitoring finds that his kidneys are His intestines are now obstructed because as the bruising on his skin become a deeper As the night continues. A code is announced on the hospital speakers. Doctors, nurses, and pharmacists immediately back. Several minutes pass. A heart beat comes back But his blood pressure is still low. A tube is placed down his throat and he's Medicines are administered to him to both the force of his heart contractions. All of this is done because if his organs low blood pressure, the bad things happening those bad things, continue to worsen. The kidneys are supposed to filter blood. build up. And because he isn't getting any better, his kidney failure continues does that filtering for him, something called If JD was previously healthy, what is even life one day, to having his heart stop in Blood culture results from the lab return bacteria identified as Capnocytophaga canimorsus of pet dogs and cats. It doesn't affect natively inside humans. If a human comes in almost always destroys it, protecting our But if a human gets a bite from those animals, their immune system isn't working properly, into bloodstream. And when the body issues the blood stream, the uncontrolled reaction body. When you get a cut, the surrounding area becomes the immune system sending white blood cells, site of injury. The walls of the blood vessels that more immune cells can enter the site, This is similar to what's happening to JD, his entire body's blood vessels are forced Without adequate pressure to push the blood Isch from an old greek word meaning to restrain Emia meaning presence of blood. A restrained presence of blood, in the tissues. As less oxygen from blood reaches the organs, The inner lining of the blood vessels in these activated white blood cells bind to the cells chemicals (Reactive oxygen species, lytic them and forming lesions all along this lining. The result of this cellular insult means that for blood to pass through the organs. When blood through, the organs aren't just dysfunctional As less oxygen is delivered to the organs, in the cell. Respiratory enzymes that make become inhibited, meaning energy is no longer up, as mitochondrial DNA begins to break down. (Nitric Oxide btw) in inflammatory response, proteins of the mitochondria, and begins to Instead of a powerhouse, the mitochondria death, And causing all of his organs to shut down. blood pressure, is septic shock. If the Capnocytophaga canimorsus bacteria his immune system to react this way, then his body? Closer examination of JD finds no dog bite out. He was previously healthy, meaning he has of taking medicines that could compromise His family confirmed that JD did love his The spleen is an organ that recycles old red cells, which are integral to the immune system. could be predisposed to an infection from MEANING that all of this points to misfortune mark, or any predisposing factors that would of licking and puppy kisses delivered Capnocytophaga entrance in his body, whether through his this zoonosis was spread all throughout his A Capnocytophaga infection, is rare. In the and the infection isn't even tracked. In 1 million people happen per year, meaning those who do have a Capnocytophaga infection, he is 1 in a million, there's a chance he Additional antibiotics were added to his regimen. blood tests find improvements in some markers, On the 8th day of hospitalization, a fungus Fungus has nothing to do with the dog. Where Well, some clinical implications need to be Candida is present in your gut microbiome. that live inside your stomach and intestines are given, like in JD's case, lots of the eliminated. But candida is a fungus. Antibiotics to take over, reproduce en masse, and cause Because JD was in the intensive care unit, medical team access in to his body. Candida right now because you're probably not admitted has a connection directly to a central vein vector for the fungus, to enter his body, the longer that it's in place. An antifungal medicine was added to JD. His the initiation of antibiotics, signs of systemic Blood tests seemed to normalize in him. His didn't seem to be dissolving anymore. But the next day, the nurse alerts everyone find that inflammatory markers were rising, Typically, if a patient is starting to improve unit, this could indicate a hospital acquired can be controlled, so another antibiotic was A CT scan of his chest revealed possible pneumonia. as was detected in secretions from his trachea. regimen was simplified. For the next few days, But 4 days later, an abdominal CT scan revealed This infarction, a Latin word meaning to stuff a blood clot to be stuffed into a vessel of meaning that all blood flow was obstructed, As doctors look at JD, they see that all 4 that the blood supply has been cut off from If he survives this, it's likely that he the remainder of his life. Sepsis has been known to humans for several used these glyphs to describe a principle, eye, that was contained near what we know travel up to the heart and cause death. We we're able to see it with microscopes, but meaning they knew something from the gut, The interesting thing about these glyphs, It indicates that the word or idea presented something disgusting. In the Ancient Egyptian glyph is present, meaning that the Ancients, But the Greeks developed the Egyptian idea stemming from the intestines and the brain. implied a bad smell, and it was contrasted some sort. Hippocrates wrote that sepsis was generate foul airs and smells, and the process he couldn't see with eyes, was the cause In western civilization, it took 2000 years Italian physician Frencesco Redi ran an experiment as written by Aristotle. He took pots filled with meat, fish or cheese and laid eggs, creating maggots. He repeated covering the meat, fish or cheese. Flies gathered, the gauze. No maggots grew on the baits, meaning generate from the process of sepsis. Today, we know the idea behind these hieroglyphs canimorsus used to be called DF-2 (dysgonic it hadn't been classified as a new species. when a 17 year old boy who had undergone splenectomy sustained a dog bite, and fell ill days later. before 1989, when it was finally given it's And while germ theory of disease gave a basis why patients' organs still shut down, in eliminated from the body. This multi-organ to JD. Another CT scan is done on his head. In his found along with a swelling of fluid. Because isn't much room for it to expand when there brain damage is happening to JD. The medical team meets with his family, and If he comes back from this, he will have permanent arms and legs to use anymore. There there all his organs. In septic shock, sometimes it's not just it's how the body responds. Starting with the Tissue Ischemia, almost organs shutting down, was not just caused system. The Nitric Oxide dilation of the blood blood cells caused endothelial damage to the lesions, narrowing the vessel, worsening the hypotension. Capnocytophagia canimorsus is one of the most right up there with Neisseria meningitidis tell you what they cause. Capnocytophaga can been phagocytosed, or eaten by them. So as they hide inside instead. They can do this down hydrogen peroxide that would have otherwise called catalase. And as they reproduce, break the immune system reacts systemically as Capnocytophaga Small blood clots form as the complement system liver shuts down. These clots lodge into the Causing gangrene to develop as the tissue Just like what happened to JD. On day 16 of his admission, the therapy was to family for processions. The point of this case, is not to scare anyone The infection is rare enough that it's not tracked and are a healthy person with a strong immune probably isn't going to be a problem. But the point of this case is to say if you if you develop flu like symptoms that's to get that checked out immediately. These fever with bruise-like spots developing under Big dark spots that rapidly develop. Or something like a severe shortness of breath, I think most folks know of someone in their later, passed in the hospital. There's a from either waiting too long, or from a freak And for anyone watching who is in clinical you know that the clinical course for a patient just a couple of hours, and I'm sure you've back for your next shift, that patient is Even if the incidence is less than 1 person here in the United States, so statistically, a dog licking them, biting them, or anything case. So take care of yourself. And Be well.