The feud between the Hatfields and the McCoys books, and TV shows all telling their own But it's easy to forget there were real people Here's the untold truth of their legendary The Hatfields and McCoys lived along the Tug West Virginia, with the Hatfields on the West side. Both families made their living from timber for decades - until the Civil War broke out. Both families were generally on the Confederate They both also engaged in the unofficial fighting Union and Confederate states. One McCoy, Asa Harmon McCoy, served in the At the end of 1864, Asa returned home from with a broken leg. Many at home were angry with his service, tracked him down and murdered him in cold the Hatfield-McCoy feud. If there's one thing the world knows about This hasn't changed since the late 19th-century, relationship even worse by taking each other According to The Herald-Dispatch, in the late Hatfield sued a McCoy cousin over a land dispute. Devil Anse won the case, and took possession This disgruntled the McCoys in part because politically-connected, but they took no action Some time later, though, McCoy patriarch Randolph a pig that appeared to have a distinct McCoy Randolph accused Floyd of stealing the pig. According to History, the ensuing trial was The trial took place in a territory with heavy relative. The star witness, Bill Staton, was part of Hatfield--and his testimony cleared Floyd Two years later, Staton was killed by other on grounds of self-defense. But the temperature between the two families You might think that the Hatfields and McCoys, so much they literally went to war against each other personally. In fact, the opposite is true: The families relationships. The land each family owned was right next As the Herald-Dispatch notes, it was one of the family feud to the next level. In 1880, Johnse Hatfield, son of family patriarch McCoy's daughter. By this point there was a lot of bad blood and violence, so Randolph wasn't thrilled When Roseanna traveled to West Virginia to rode after her. Johnse himself wasn't particularly thrilled, want to settle down with her. Roseanna was by this time pregnant, but with was forced to return home, where her father She reportedly never saw Johnse again. Their child died just a year later of the recovered. She passed away in 1889 at just 29 years old Nancy McCoy, one of many women he had been By 1882, the Hatfields and McCoys despised one so far. There had been raids, kidnappings, and lawsuits, have been left behind. Then came Election Day. According to History, three of Randolph McCoy's brothers at the polls and exchanged angry According to some accounts, the McCoys had for his treatment of Roseanna, but had been Others claim the argument was over a small Either way, things grew more and more heated, Ellison Hatfield was stabbed several times, As Ellison lay mortally wounded, the authorities But Devil Anse had a better idea. He organized a small army of Hatfields who When Ellison died of his wounds, they took three of them in a hail of bullets. This cold-blooded murder made the Hatfields issued for the arrest of dozens of family The Hatfields were old-school country people, territory that was very friendly towards them, angrier. History reports that the Hatfields used their murder against them dropped. But the McCoys had friends too. They enlisted an attorney named Perry Cline got the charges reinstated--and added a reward The Hatfields started to feel the pressure that drastic action against their enemies The plan the Hatfields settled on was elegant of their problems, so they would eliminate The Hatfields organized an assault on Randolph They set fire to the cabin and started shooting Randolph's son, Calvin, was murdered, while as she tried to put out the fire. Randolph's wife, Sarah, tried to help Alifair a crushed skull that left her disabled the A bounty hunter named Bad Frank Phillips took Tracking them down, he killed one and arrested Hailed as a hero by the McCoys, he ended up of notorious womanizer Johnse Hatfield. After several Hatfields were arrested for McCoy's cabin in 1888, the feud moved from on to the front page. As you might suspect, that meant that the The state of West Virginia, home to the Hatfield that the Hatfields had been illegally arrested transported into Kentucky. The case crawled through the courts for months, at each other over the issue. According to the Herald-Dispatch, things got activated their National Guard units, preparing The court case eventually made it all the Kentucky's favor by a vote of 7-2. Although the legality of the arrests wasn't to be held in Kentucky - a big win for the All of the Hatfields were eventually convicted. Eight were sentenced to life in prison, including death - Ellison Mount, son of Ellison Hatfield, Despite reportedly struggling with intellectual on February 18, 1890 after confessing to shooting Contrary to popular misconception, the Hatfields each other for very long. With eight Hatfields sent to prison for life feud quickly cooled. A few more trials occurred with a few more out of both families--both patriarchs, William suffered devastating losses, and neither seemed In fact, according to The Baltimore Sun, an 1891. Cap Hatfield, Devil Anse's son, published part, &quot;The war spirit in me has abated [...] a general and McCoy feud.&quot; History reports that Randolph McCoy was haunted Alifair, and became a ferry boat operator, Devil Anse Hatfield, who had never been a himself baptized at the age of 73, and died There was no further violence between the dustups. All in all, the Hatfield-McCoy feud lasted So why did the feud really happen in the first The reasons behind the Hatfield-McCoy feud breeds contempt, after all, and two families have disagreements. Add in guns and a level of isolation from recipe for a violent war between families. But there was more to it. Economics played a part as well. Isolated rural areas like the home of the as the industrial revolution ramped up and in natural resources. That increased poverty and forced families competing for dwindling opportunities. More than that, though, there may also have According to History, in study on the descendants of both families Hippel-Lindau disease, an extremely rare genetic pressure--and enhanced stress hormones. As a result, the disease can make people very While no one claims it's the sole reason for secretly suffering from the condition may easily enraged as a result. Researchers matched the genetic findings with of many Hatfields and McCoys and concluded many of them to overreact to provocations. If medical science had been aware of the condition avoided. The Hatfield-McCoy feud ended in every practical the public imagination ever since - something with. So in 1976 members of the two families tried handshake, which kicked off a series of joint 1976 also saw the debut of the hit game show against each other for cash and prizes. Of course, Family Feud was a much friendlier it, so it was only natural that in 1979, the to prove just how congenial they all were up for the cameras. &quot;There's no hard feelings?&quot; After September 11, 2001, though, the families and decided that something more was needed legacy. So in 2003, Reo Hatfield and Bo McCoy got treaty between the two families. They argued that the historic nature of the it had ended--and expressed the hope that become more united. So far America has become united in at least the Hatfields and the McCoys, to the point up to serve people making pilgrimages to Kentucky Tourists love to visit places like Dils Cemetery patriarch Randolph McCoy and some of his family put on trial for stealing a McCoy pig in the boys were tied to trees and executed in cold of Ellison Hatfield. In fact, according to ABC News, the United walkways and make some of the sites a bit and cultural importance of the feud. The feud may be long over, but as long as never truly be allowed to end. Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Grunge videos about American Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the