[Jim] Everybody knows How it hit an iceberg This is the Titanic We wanted to make a different One that focuses on the This is Fairview When the Titanic went down, it We're in the cemetery So, this is the start And you'll see some because they are And then some, obviously, with -[Jim] April 15th, 1912. [Jim] I found Percy Deslandes. They misspelled his name on A first class cabin steward, he had just married joined the Titanic His newlywed wife She lived till 1961. Wendla Heininen was traveling by herself from a brave girl going to America, unidentified for years until We found her name here Wendla Heininen, 23. Bedroom steward, Charles They had four children. and their youngest From the coast of Ireland, photo ever taken of her. Icebergs drift down A few hours after nightfall, at 22 knots in the dark, to turn at the last second. A little over 700 made one floating upside Over 1,500 didn't [somber music] ? [newspaper printing press din] ? The Carpathia pulling in lifeboats With 1,500 dead in Mackay-Bennett, arrived eight and retrieved 300 bodies. But there was a problem: stated that bodies could So they did Running out of supplies, they passengers at sea. were wrapped in canvas First-class Harold Reynolds was In the army, at 21 he was sick two days later he boarded the as a baker in Toronto with a friend already And if it's true that the band while the ship went down, This is John Hume, And I'm standing right Later, a bill arrived His father declined to pay it. Recently, one of the children His entire family was lost at for by the sailors on the ship who actually found [Jim] This is &quot;Erected to the whose remains were of the 'Titanic.'&quot; and his name was 1910 to 1912. The little boy's dad had station being built in and possible work there. They booked passage for the but a coal strike And they were Traveling in third class, by about abandoning ship, all There's 121 folks buried here. Nils Paulson had gone ahead to for his family to come from and then to When the ship was sinking, too long to prepare the four has experienced. for the lifeboats. An account says her husband's of anyone who visited As the crowd grew waiting had been wiped out. Henry Allen, a fireman Cecilia, was pregnant at the birth to daughter, Eliza. storekeeper. Henry Ashe's Gladys. The character that Leonardo Jack Dawson, people that he played. This is very and little gifts. But this is Joseph Dawson, who room as a coal trimmer. [calm Celtic music] And there was one more at the Maritime Museum An actual Titanic deck chair. Imagine passengers relaxing on in the ocean, it has the Star line. This is almost definitely the Two photos taken by different streak of paint across Robert Ballard found but it was part of now declassified. They asked him to find American subs, the USS But they didn't want the locations. Searching for the cover story. Once he found days to enjoy his mission: He found it-- 1,200 feet down. So many newspapers were wrong, were saved and the Titanic As the Titanic radio operator the closest ships were: the SS away they had switched Seeing signal rockets coming saved a lot of the passengers. The Samson, ten miles away, signal rockets. But they were so ship's officers decided detection. The Carpathia, 58 at top speed to be the first three and a half hours. Six years later, the Carpathia submarine. More intrigue: boat number one, could hold only 12-- seven crew members passengers that were Sir Cosmo and Lucy Duff-Gordon who quickly rode them away, At the inquest afterwards, it each member of the lifeboat arrived in New York. Now here in Nova Scotia from the ship. This is Curling Club today. In 1912 at its original away, the curling club was the bodies. There are all over the world that and victims. Almost nobody the Titanic Put up in 1931, just Ball Park, it was moved in It reads: &quot;To the brave men of the Titanic. They and children This is Titanic II being built It'll be about the same size navigational equipment, you, too, will be able and paint pictures Famous people who Guglielmo Marconi, radio ticket but had work to do, so three days earlier. Milton Hersey, the man behind deposit on a state room interfered and he and his to New York. JP Morgan, so rich he had his promenade deck. He didn't another day at his European and sulfur bath. And Anderson Alfred canceled last minute, but went the Lusitania So here's to the real people. Melvina Dean was the final who died in 2009 (Jim speaks Wanna see a couple These are the Strauses, who refused a spot in the younger people And you know they Malkolm Johnson, third-class Minneapolis supervising saving enough money to move When he got to Sweden, He was very upset, On the Titanic. And finally, Luigi Gatti, to manage the a la carte that during the sinking, their cabins and kept there. This is the Carpathia back to New York. We have a wonderful Bernice Palmer, to thank On board, she had this and captured pictures on the Carpathia. A fast-talking middle man away the rights to these This is a picture of the ice through at high speed of the iceberg ran in Here she is with her camera, which now is in The Carpathia arrives in New lifeboats, then docks at Pier These buildings are gone now. left in New York City It's still there. This is arrived. And if you see imagination, 'cause the on the ironwork still. The final, odd remnant [melancholy Celtic music] ? [Dawn] Thanks, friends, for about whatever we find people here from 1912. Please on our channel, and please Thanks to our friends of [upbeat music] ? ?