Everyone can be seated Good afternoon family and friends, and welcome Jillian Hirsch and Jordan Kary. For those of you in attendance today who I of meeting, my name is Michael Hirsch and myself the older brother of this drop-dead For those of you who may be wondering, no, that the states of New York and California About two years ago I had the honor of officiating her amazing husband, Tim, and when Jill and be willing to come out of retirement to do to do so. Jill and Jordan, I am so incredibly honored, the two of you on this very special day, and go off perfectly without a single hitch, I together and when you walk back down that wife, legally. Before getting started, I wanted to take a with us today: our beautiful bridesmaids, all of you. We have traveled here from near and far, mostly both Jill and Jordan to have each of you here special day. By your presence here today, you are witnessing have discovered in each other, and have grown years, and by your presence here today you to each other and to a lifelong relationship Each of you hold a very special place in the of the bride and groom, I thank each and every day. Additionally, Jillian and Jordan have asked a few special people that are near and dear First and foremost, their parents, Steve, made this incredible weekend possible. Next, each of their grandparents Hugh Denham, Denham. Ken and Frances Kary, who traveled here from Hirsch, who traveled all the way from Long Grandma, you are the matriarch of our family, than words can explain. Last but not least, a few very special people with us, but who will forever be with us in My grandparents, Ruth and Joe Taylor, and Dale kitchen. We love you, and we miss each of you dearly, be here with us today, we know that you are us in spirit. Jillian and Jordan, today you are surrounded are with you. Together, this group of people will not only this evening, but they will also provide you and the new family, that is being created It is therefore our duty as witnesses here with our unconditional strength and support of life. With that, I would like to invite Hugh Denham, reading. Happy Jill and Jordan wedding day. All I really need to know, I learned in kindergarten, All of what I really need to know, about how in kindergarten. Wisdom was not at the top of the Graduate at a nursery school. These are the things I learned: Share everything, them, clean up your own mess, don't take things somebody, wash your hands before you eat, but this is no joke. Let me start over again, you don't mind it. Wash your hands before you eat, stop. Flush, warm cookies, cold milk are good for Give them to someone who feels sad. Live a balanced life. Learn some, think some, draw and paint, sing Take a nap every afternoon. Be aware of wonder. Remember the little seed in the plastic cup, really knows how or why, but we are all like Everything we need to know is in there somewhere, are, when you go out of this world, it is that. Thank you, Hugh. I would now like to invite Lindsey's husband, us for the second reading. Jillian and Jordan, we are thrilled for you Now I'm gonna try and speak slowly so everyone Blessing for a Marriage, by James Freeman. May your marriage bring you all the exquisite life grant you also patience, tolerance, and May you always need one another, not so much your fullness. A mountain needs a valley to be complete, but more, and the valley is more a valley So let it be with you, and you. May you need one another, but not out of weakness. May you want one another, but not out of lack. May you entice one another, but not compel May you embrace one another, but not encircle May you succeed in all important ways with May you look for things to praise, often say (Linds - I hope you're listening to this). If you have quarrels that push you apart, to take the first step back. May you enter into the mystery, which is the physical, than spiritual, warm, and near, and near when you're in separate rooms or May you have happiness, and may you find it May you have love, and may you find it loving Thank you. Thank you, Tim. I'd now like to invite Jordan's cousins, Maddie and final reading. Love, by Roy Croft. I love you. Not only for what you are, but for what I I love you. Not only for what you have made of yourself, I love you for the part of me that you bring I love you for putting your hand into my heaped-up things that you can't help dimly seeing there. And for drawing out into the light, all the has looked quite far enough to find. I love you because you're helping me to make a temple. Out of the works of my every day, not a reproach, I love you because you have done more than and more than any fate could have done to You have done it without a touch, without You have done it by being yourself. Perhaps that is what being a friend means Thank you both. Before we proceed to the exchanging of the few personal thoughts on this very special I'll never forget the moment when Mom and we would soon have a little sister, and her Instantly, so many questions began rushing I was five at the time. Did Mom and Dad choose another girl because Would Jillian Could I make her eat my vegetables and do What happens if I don't like her? Does this mean I'm destined to be a middle What does being a big brother even entail, Jillian? Admittedly, I wasn't too thrilled about the As time went on, and Jillian began to grow just like me. It was at this point I realized that it would my little sister. As we continued to grow, I slowly began to in so many ways, and I began to love the fact She is smart, really smart. She is competitive, she's feisty, she's a she has a huge heart, and as you can see today, Anyone lucky enough to have Jill as a friend ever ask for. She's genuine, thoughtful and caring, and She exudes positivity, and she always manages I can honestly say that she is the nicest little sister, over the years I have realized way around. Like most Big Brother's, I couldn't help but felt that it was my job to protect her (especially I didn't think that any man out there would gonna get married, I assumed she would have Admittedly, at first I was very skeptical After all, he was a couple years older and to all the other hockey players here, most I had heard stories that Jordan was able to decided before even meeting him that I was Well, that whole plan went out the window minutes of doing so, he managed to win me Jill had found herself a keeper, I had developed mess this one up. As I've gotten to know Jordan over the past that he is the perfect man for Jill. He somehow managed to fit right in with our stretch of the imagination, and before I knew he became an integral part of our family. Jordan from the bottom of my heart, thank Thank you for loving my sister as much as Thank you for caring for her as much as I Thank you for supporting her when she needs and lifting her up when she is down. Thank you for helping her grow into the amazing It is evident to all that know Jill that you world and I'm overjoyed that you are officially Today, I'm extremely pleased and honored to that you are more than capable of looking like I have done for so many years. It's been such a pleasure getting to know days, and in doing so it has only become even turned out to be the man that he is today. Ron and Shelly, you guys did an absolutely I thank you both as well. Jill and Jordan - you are both so incredibly such a perfect example of what love, marriage, that the two of you together will only raise I love you both, and I couldn't be happier We are now going to exchange some vows. Now you shall say a few words that will take After these vows, you shall say to the world, Jordan - please repeat after me: I Jordan, be my wife, to be my wife. I will share my life with yours, I will share build our dreams together, support you through of trouble, and rejoice with you in times of happiness. I promise to give you respect love and loyalty, through all the trials and triumphs of our triumphs of our loves our lives together. This commitment is made in love, this commitment lived in Hope, lived in hope, and made new day of our lives. Jillian please repeat after me: I Jillian, to be my husband, to be my husband. I will share my life with yours, I will share build our dreams together, support you through of trouble, and rejoice with you in times of happiness. I promise to give you respect, love, and loyalty, through all the trials and triumphs of our triumphs of our lives together. This commitment is made in love, this commitment lived in hope, lived in hope, and made new day of our lives. They're now going to exchange the Rings. We have all witnessed your exchange of vows Wedding rings are a tangible symbol of the Wear them every day to remind yourselves of Jordan - repeat after me. Jill, I give you this ring, Jill, I give you love and commitment to you, which is a symbol you. Ok, Jill - please repeat after me: Jordan, ring, which is a symbol of my unconditional of my unconditional love and commitment to Jordan - before I make this official and give first break through the glass. once this glass is shattered it can never the couple's wish to never return to the time we have heard your promise to share your lives the vows that you have made here before each of us here we go: in the honesty and sincerity of what you have said and done here today of California it is my sincere pleasure and and wife you may kiss the bride whooooooooo!