(Based on the webtoon (Bo Young looking terrified) (Seol Hyun drenched in rain) (Min Ha with a seemingly (We decided to chat with the mysterious trio) (Before shooting starts) The person in charge of &lt;Light Shop&gt; used to work in programming at tvN and is apparently your junior. Who could it be? (An unfamiliar guest came to see Yung Suk) Hi. Oh, hi. Oh, hey. (Voice rising with excitement) Did you come here to hang out? I'm actually here today for the shoot. I'm the person in charge. (Lee Ju Hye / &lt;Light Shop&gt; staff, You're in charge? What did you bring? Is that food? No, this is lighting equipment. Since the title is &lt;Light Shop&gt;... (Staying true to the name) - This is... You've just had a successful fan meeting. (Chuckling) Oh, my. Wow. You're a superstar now. (A glamorous flower bouquet I'll place this here during the shoot. (Yung Suk still appreciates flowers) (Chattering with Nah) (The former colleague leaves) Oh, they're here? (Preparing to welcome guests) Oh, here... Oh, my goodness. You startled me. (Laughing) I was just about to put out some slippers for the guests, and you were standing there. (Kim Min Ha / Actor) (Calming his racing heart Thank you. I've heard so much about you Who? From Youn Yuh Jung. (Min Ha played young Yuh Jung in &lt;Pachinko&gt;) - Thank you. as an incredibly talented junior. - Really? Yuh Jung comes here from time to time. Right, I've seen it. What did you bring? Well, we usually serve meals, but since it's afternoon, I thought we could prepare some simple snacks. I've brought some fruit marmalade. I wanted to make it for you. I brought some fruit marmalade along with some tools. (Close coverage) It's nothing special. Just some fruit marmalade. (She even brought cups) - Shall we make this now? Should I make it now? - They'll be here soon anyway. (Fumbling) (The packaging won't easily open) Is there anything we can help with? No, nothing. (Declining) (Staring) Let me open that for you. I'm a bit needy. Sorry. (The host steps in to help) Would you like a wet wipe? (Hosts making the guest feel comfortable) - I'm so needy. I'm sorry. It's so nice to see you. You're quite a high-maintenance type, It's lonely to be this way. (Intense empathy) You know exactly what it feels like, right? If we just had the time, we could do it. Exactly. (Seems to have a lot of pent-up feelings) We'll look over there. She can definitely do this. - Kim Min Ha, you can do it! (Min Ha starts making an ade Someone has arrived. (Hurrying) - Oh, hello! (Kim Seol Hyun/Actor) - Have you been well? Come in. Min Ha is already here. - Hi. We haven't seen each other That's right. (The last guest arrives right after) (Park Bo Young/Actor) (Welcome) I'm making something. Oh, really? I brought some marmalade. (Busy) It's like a housewarming gift. This is actually a gift for your company. Oh, my. (Rushing at the mention of a gift) This is a gift for you. You've probably heard (The Game Caterers - BH Episode) I founded this company with big dreams. (Deeply moved) Congratulations. Thank you. You even brought a housewarming gift. Hehe. What's that? - This is a North Korean-style injeolmi. Would you mind opening it? North Korean-style injeolmi? - It's an incredibly delicious rice cake. - Do you know about it? How do you all know? - Do you know about it too, Seol Hyun? - It's a famous rice cake. (48-year-old not wanting to be left behind) What is it? (Made with red beans) Why am I just finding out about this now? Well, this is for the staff. (Bo Young even brought something (We all enjoyed it) I brought some fruit. (Seol Hyun brought Shine Muscat grapes) Let's think of this - as our afternoon tea party. Should I prepare the grapes, too? (Bo Young joins in) (Afternoon tea party prep complete) (Except for Min Ha) Don't worry about her. Seems like we need to have a chat Please have a chat among yourselves. At some point, it'll be ready. I'm so happy to see you. How have you been, Bo Young? I just finished a drama, took a short break last month, and now, I'm preparing for the next project. So how long was your break? About 20 days. Is that long or short? Good or bad? It depends on the person, doesn't it? How long would you ideally like to rest? Me? Two months. Oh, so you'd like to rest for two months. (Stirring) Pick just one spot. For example, when a project ends, is there one place that immediately comes to mind where you'd want to go and completely unwind? I'd love to go back to Porto if I could choose a place I've already been. It was so wonderful. (Still in the middle of preparation) I really want to have that egg tart Is it that delicious? I ate it every day because it was so good. What about you, Seol Hyun? I actually go to Bali quite often. I like to just lie around during vacations. Oh, so you're more of a relaxation type. A nature type. Even when I'm abroad, I tend to look for natural settings. (Definitely a nature lover) Sorry, are you still not done? I'm finished now. I was hoping to talk about the drama (Hallabong ade finally completed (Takes a sip) It's delicious. Is it not too sweet or too bland? It's really good. I'll do it. The cleanup is part of my cooking process. It's really delicious, but we really didn't need to go - To be honest. Let me clean this up. If you could just take a little more time to talk... (There's still some cleanup left) Just call me when you're ready. Just a little more. I'll send you a text. Today, the three of you are here for a reason. (Three actors with a great project) Could you explain what it's about? What project... Her... Usually, there's someone in charge of these things. Oh, really? Min Ha, you should do it. (Unexpectedly assigned the PR role) - But today is the first... PR... (Diving straight into PR practice) First, it's based on a work I love the original work. It's a webtoon adaptation. So many customers visit this lighting shop. It's about the individual stories - Is that it? (A 7-second ultra-brief project promotion) Bo Young, could you add some more details? (Support from an experienced senior) It's a thriller and horror, but with a lot of emotions involved. And it's going to be a bit different from the &lt;Light Shop&gt; It's been slightly adapted. Who did the adaptation? Kang Full did it himself. Oh, he wrote it and adapted it himself? Those who've seen the original might enjoy finding the differences. And those who haven't Could you tell me about the roles? - Is it okay to talk about that? The reason I can't explain is not because of anything else. - You can't discuss the roles? - That's what I heard. (Experienced PR person looking anxious) She seems really nervous right now. She seems anxious. - No, I'm not. (Strongly denying) Oh? Can you do this confidently? I can. What role do you play? I play the role of &quot;Kwon Young-ji.&quot; (A familiar name) Yes, my character's name is Young-ji. (Kwon Young-ji, an ICU nurse) She experienced a near-death situation and now has this bizarre ability to see both special and ordinary people. (Seems like an extraordinary role) What roles do you two play? I... just always wait for someone at a bus stop. (Walking a tightrope with potential spoilers) Let me ask Ju Hye. She's with the Disney+ team. (An unexpected junior chance) I was told this much is okay to discuss. Oh, so it's okay. You can discuss your roles. Of course, it might have changed. Let's hear about Min Ha's character. I search hard for a new place to live, so many strange things start happening. - Are you a resident there? Please look it up in the original work. (Guess who it is) From what I saw, the three of you aren't the only ones starring in the drama. A lot of actors are involved. Kim Dae Myeung is in it, and UM TAEGOO is, too. In my mind, to the characters in the webtoon. (A casting goldmine, &lt;Light Shop&gt;) It'll be fun guessing who's playing who. Like, &quot;Oh, Kim Dae Myeung must be this character&quot; or &quot;What role is TAEGOO playing?&quot; You'll definitely find at least one (Applause for the sophisticated comment) - That's so cool. about half of Korea's top actors seem to be in it. Thank you. We should mention this often. Yeah, it's such a great thing to say. The highlight of &lt;Light Shop&gt; is that you'll definitely find (Moved by a pretty good promotional line) - What a fantastic statement. How did they manage to gather In my opinion, some were huge fans of Kang Full's original work, and the fact that Kim Hee Won is directing also attracted That's right. (Assembling an Avengers team) Has Kim Hee Won directed before? This is his first time. (Kim Hee Won / Actor, Director, (Performed in various fields (Musical &lt;Laundry&gt; Artistic Director, (Kim Hee Won's first directing work What is Kim Hee Won's directing style like on set? I found the set really cold. We were shooting during winter. From what I know, Yes, I was continuously getting rained on. And you shot this in the middle of winter? (Shooting continued The director, who really dislikes being cold, said &quot;I know how you feel&quot; and set up a tent next to the set, making it almost like a sauna. When we were shooting, we could go inside, and he even brought monitors there to watch. (A director who was the epitome of warmth) What was he like with you, Bo Young? He was very warm with me, too. After all, he's an actor himself. So he understands the actor's perspective. Yes, he knows exactly what we're struggling with and what makes us uncomfortable on set. He would say, &quot;This would help.&quot; He gave very precise directions. Right. Like &quot;When you say this line, - Oh. He's like a top-tier instructor, (Top-tier instructor Kim Hee Won) It's a strength. - A huge strength. But now, the downside is... What's the downside? He knows everything too well. Right, he sees right through everything. Oh, so there's no way to hide anything? Not just that, but if he finds something frustrating, (Agreement) Oh, like a demonstration? Hee Won would say, &quot;Look at me do it,&quot; and he would act it out himself. And he does it as if the camera is rolling. &quot;Do it like this.&quot; Then he'd leave. Then I'd think, (Challenges when the senior is the director) It's hard to be 100% focused from beginning to end when acting. But he would exactly catch those moments when my concentration slipped. He knows like a ghost. You can't fool him. (This is real horror) Still, he said he keeps trying to view his work objectively. He even went to a billiard hall and showed &lt;Light Shop&gt; to strangers. Oh, the footage? (The director showed the completed version) He went to a billiard hall asking &quot;What do you think?&quot; (The billiard hall screening was successful) Right. All the episodes must be They're on his tablet. If I say, &quot;I want to know he'd say, (Pulling out the iPad as if doing a favor) - Suddenly whipping out the iPad. &quot;I'll show you just this part.&quot; So I'd watch it, going, &quot;Oh, wow.&quot; (Shutting) (Feeling a bit left hanging) He really showed it in such a teasing way. It makes you even more curious. I wonder how it actually turned out. - I'm so curious and excited. Korean productions are becoming so diverse, don't you think? - Yeah, right. Don't actors have a hunger for a diverse portfolio? (Nodding) This is my first thriller project in 10 years. What did you film 10 years ago? - You did a horror film. called &lt;Don't Click&gt; when I was super young. Aren't you scared I'm fine because I saw how they're made. (I know what you mean) For example, there's a scene where I'm sitting in front of and the classic horror film stuff (Door: Squeak) (Turning) there's something behind me. When I'm typing, the door was supposed to creak, and the staff needed to figure out They decided to use a fishing line. One of the staff was lying on the floor, and the director went, &quot;Now!&quot; through the microphone. (Pulling) But the timing had to be perfect. &quot;Now now!&quot; I got to see all that. And the ghost makeup was fascinating, so I liked watching it up close. - That made it less scary. It's like behind-the-scenes of a haunted house at Everland. (A haunted house worker would get it) I have another question. Actors must have genres they like to film, but do you also like to watch that genre? Or do you watch other genres? I think it might vary per person, but for me, I tend to watch Your acting genre is something like &lt;Pachinko&gt;, right? - Is that what you like? acting out realistic roles, but personally, Oh, so you like fantasy? Yes, I like fantasy and animated movies. Basically, things (Exactly) - Things that are fake outright. How about you, Bo Young? I've done so many romance comedies. Oh, you're so good at it. Oh, you have to do romance comedy. Don't say you're tired of it. (Tantrum) But the viewers might... - The viewers might think... (Fan No. 1, Fan No. 2) We're not tired. I've worried about this so much. - It must concern you as an actor, though. I feel like I'm repeating the same role. Sometimes, it feels like - Like you're stuck. So I used to wonder if I should do something different. But lately, I have realized what I &quot;want to do&quot; is different (Something anyone could experience) Every profession is like that. But also, because many people want to see what I'm &quot;good at,&quot; similar types of projects keep coming in, and it feels like my options I've been really struggling with this and have this burning desire to show a different side of me quickly. I really admire actor Kim Hae Sook, and when I shared this struggle with her, she told me this: &quot;Why are you in such a rush I just... There's no need to be impatient. Even if people say it's boring, it's okay to keep doing what you're good at until people truly say, and &quot;I don't want to see it anymore.&quot; That's when you can say, and it won't be too late at all. It's the wisdom of someone From then on, I stopped feeling impatient and thought, &quot;All right, I'll do it while I can.&quot; Do it once every three years. (Forcing a project) I can say this as a fan. I'm not a drama director. Oh, thank you so much. I'm truly grateful that people still want to see me. (The return of Bo Young) Oh, I got off track. Oh, I really go off on tangents when talking. (Back to the main topic) We were talking about I do a lot of romance comedies, but I love watching things like &lt;John Wick&gt;. It's so good. (Fanboy) I really want to see you do I really love watching those kinds of things. I think it would suit you, surprisingly. It seems like I watch genres that are a bit scary and challenging for me to attempt. Things that provide vicarious satisfaction. Oh, that's true. Didn't you try action in &lt;Hot Young Bloods&gt;? (Embarrassed) You also did in &lt;Strong Girl Bong-soon&gt;. - Right. But Bong-soon was so strong, so I didn't feel much pressure. I'd just zip up on wires and go out to space and come back. So cute. (Everyone except herself found it difficult) Seol Hyun, is there a difference between genres you like I like to watch character growth stories. - Coming-of-age stories? What I want to try is romance comedy. Oh, romantic comedy. But I've never done it. (Surprised) (Can't believe she's never done it) It just happened that way, I guess. - Really? You've never done romance comedy? -That's surprising. So I definitely want to try it once. Send a message to Korea's directors and writers. (Are you watching this?) (Romance comedy fans waiting) I want to do it so badly. You've played daughter roles a lot. - Someone's daughter. Or a younger sister. Usually, you're from I either die, or the other person dies, or we both die. Oh... It's the same for me. You're always in roles where someone's dying, right? I rarely play a character with both parents around. (Come to think of it, that's true) I'm always the one responsible But I'm actually the youngest in my family. So you're the pampered youngest daughter? Yes. But directors keep... Giving me tough roles. I've actually gotten in trouble a lot during shoots where I had to do housework because I'm terrible at housework. I could tell You have to be quick, but I'm not even good at folding clothes. (Pretending to be skilled) Seol Hyun, why do you want Because you haven't done it? I've never acted out characters falling in love, being soft, and crying because of love. I've never acted out those kinds of emotions. You must want to do that (Pushing the narrative) But that's different... - I just want to express it. No, I won't fall for that. (Professional delulu) I guess that's true. Watching Bo Young's work, I never thought any of her work was fake. (Romance comedy delulu's conspiracy) (The conversation is heating up) - What's going on? What's going on? Hey. (Familiar faces timidly entering) (The architect of this situation) - Hello. (They exchange greetings) Hello. (The cause of this sudden, awkward meeting) These are cafeteria workers. (Cafeteria owner, cafeteria nutritionist) They're shooting a program (A hospitable cafeteria (&lt;GBRB&gt; spin-off: KWANGSOO &amp; KYUNG SOO's (See you soon - KKPP Food Employees) No wonder you didn't reply to my texts. (Startled bunny eyes) No wonder you didn't reply to my texts. (&lt;Collective Invention&gt; with KWANGSOO, KWANGSOO, you know both of them? I shot something with Min Ha. A music video. (Min Ha who appeared What did you bring? Potato pancakes. It looks delicious. Great job. - Did you just make these? (Freshly fried, piping hot potato pancakes) Really well done. (Garlic flakes as topping) (Nutritionist KYUNG SOO's special edition) Are we supposed to dip it in this sauce? (Made by KWANGSOO, made by KYUNG SOO) (Confirming KWANGSOO's contribution) (Teasing KWANGSOO) This looks weird. You... (Total burn) Try it first. While you're here, sit down for a bit. Here. (Sitting down for a moment) Watch us eat it. (Trying to cut) How should I do this? I tried to cut it and failed. Sorry. Sit down, Min Ha. (Clumsy hands, please sit down) (The nutritionist will cut it for you) I wanted to know so I texted him saying, But he didn't respond. I've been busy since this morning. Right now, I'm... a bit dizzy. (Working full shift with no phone break) How did you two meet each other? We've worked together and... (Bo Young &amp; KWANGSOO co-starred And we've lived in the same apartment complex - Really? You must know each other's secrets and stuff. Quite a bit. Why are you nervous? Are you okay? (A beautiful relationship) There are no weaknesses. (Rambling) I see. (Garlic flake potato pancakes are ready) Thank you. KYUNG SOO must have fried these, right? We made it together. A collaborative effort. [Ignoring] - Thank you. Min Ha, you're an expert on Korean cuisine. (Korean food lover) It's so delicious. (Clapping) (Crunch) Mm! It's delicious. It's really good. It's almost like a fritter. We fried it slowly for a long time. (Shy) (Chef KYUNG SOO tastes it, too) Wow. It's really good. Hey, you made it. (I made it, and it's good) (Potato pancakes receive a positive response) Thank you so much. Everyone's just nibbling at the edges. No, I like the middle. How did you come up with this sauce? (Min Ha shows interest in KWANGSOO's sauce) It's really creative. Have you tried it? (Smirking) - Well... (Smirking at Min Ha's praise) Because cooking is all about ideas. (Min Ha appeared in KYUNG SOO's music video) - A music video. (Filmed the highlight medley video) It was really fun. Oh, you like singing and are good at it, right? You just released a song. With who? KYUNG SOO? No. What song? Just tell me the title. (A remake of Milena's Letter) It's a letter-like song. What was the melody? (Holding back laughter) Does anyone know the melody? No one here knows the melody? (Playful) Sing a bit for us. - I can't. I'm too embarrassed. I might explode. No one's watching. I'd rather make two more glasses of this. Please don't film this. (Refusing camera on broadcast) (Reluctantly opening her mouth) (Introvert's maximum effort: Muted live) where she sang really well. (Embarrassed) Min Ha is so multi-talented. Thank you. You're clumsy, You contain both strengths and weaknesses. That's right. That's a good thing. Seol Hyun, what's your weakness? &quot;I'll confess to the whole world. This is my weakness. What are you going to do?&quot; (Pondering) I'm quite shy. Even in situations where I could comfortably chat with people like this, I end up getting nervous and struggle to make small talk like, So does your MBTI start with I? Yes, it starts with I. It starts with I? (Nodding) - Starts with I? - KWANGSOO, yours starts with I, too. - Are you the only E? He doesn't look like it, He barely talks to anyone, but he's an E. This is why I can't trust MBTI. I've never even heard him ask, But KYUNG SOO's actually super E. (Try it) (Clear expression of an E) You guys should go. Go and prepare food. Shouldn't you prepare dinner? Oh, but... What? Seems like you don't want to. Now that you're sitting down, It's not that he doesn't want to do it. He doesn't do it. What do you mean I don't? - I've been the only one... I'm the only one who's in a hurry. Let's go. Are you going to finish the injeolmi? (Receiving injeolmi Thank you. We enjoyed it. You three are really close, huh? That's why it's hard to leave. (Lingering) But you have things to do. I'm sad too, honestly. (Forcibly taken away) - We'll head in. I'll check out &lt;Light Shop&gt;. (Dragging) (KWANGSOO &amp; KYUNG SOO complete the delivery) We were talking about our personalities earlier. I'm a total introvert, so this actually feels really awkward. I've met you two before, but I've never met Min Ha. I've just occasionally heard from Youn Yuh Jung that she's a good actress and such. So I was worried before meeting her. But seeing her clumsy side earlier, (Inner connection UP) I was the first to get here, As a fellow introvert, I could totally relate. I could tell you were struggling. Introverts give themselves away. Introverts recognize each other. I can see how much effort you're putting in. People always ask me why I always work with the same celebrities. Meeting new actors is just challenging for me. I'm really shy and find it incredibly hard Meeting new people is genuinely challenging. But since I do a lot of dramas with large crews, as I started taking lead roles, I realized I had to say things like, &quot;Have you eaten?&quot; &quot;How are you today?&quot; &quot;We're all struggling, so let's cheer each other on.&quot; Being introverted isn't How do you feel about acting Especially Bo Young, you've played Is that tough for you? When I'm acting, I feel like I become someone else. When I put on the hair, makeup, and costume I feel a bit different. Oh, kind of like a hero putting on a mask? If I'm on a set as a really bubbly character, I'll go, &quot;Hi, hi!&quot; (For a more typical character) I'll go, &quot;Hello.&quot; There's definitely a difference. I'm like Bo Young. How should I say it? I'm a totally different person Before, I was really... Everyone here is saying the same thing now. (Introverts' confessions pouring out) I thought, What are you? I'm an INFP. (Sudden MBTI interrogation) I'm an ISFP. I go back and forth between N and S. I'm also an ISFP. I'm an INFJ. Looks like we've got (Accidentally an introverts' meetup) Seol Hyun, have you changed as well? Well... I wanted to feel less nervous and just speak without overthinking. Seems like you're always tense. - Yes. So I started meeting more people to try and change that. I started going to places. - with lots of new people. That's a lot of effort. But then I realized (Brutally realistic ending) I tried, but nothing changed, and I just got more stressed. Constantly meeting people made me even more sensitive. So I thought, &quot;Whatever, I'll just live as I am.&quot; I stay home most of the time. People don't change easily. We're all doing what Bo Young said. We try to make our introverted side - less obvious for our job. When we go somewhere and say, it'll probably sound slightly different from - how a true extrovert would say it. I'd wonder, &quot;If they say they've eaten, (Peak introvert empathy moment) &quot;Should I ask what they ate?&quot; When someone said, &quot;Yes, I've eaten,&quot; I'd spend forever thinking about it. (Facepalm) &quot;I should have said this instead.&quot; Exactly. I've developed a trick. I act friendly and approach them and ask, &quot;Have you eaten?&quot; and go on my way. That was so awkward. &quot;Have you eaten?&quot; My technique is to move really fast when talking. I'll quickly say, &quot;Have you eaten?&quot; Then they'll probably say something back, and I can respond briefly to that before quickly moving away. Everyone from the &lt;Light Shop&gt; cast... - We're all introverts. UM TAEGOO was - a guest on &lt;Three Meals a Day&gt; recently. TAEGOO was at another level. Isn't he hilarious? Oh, he's funny. When introversion reaches that level, - it becomes a character trait. (&lt;Light Shop&gt; cast had a gathering) I'm pretty new to the industry, so senior actors told me that day they really enjoyed &lt;Pachinko&gt;. A couple of days later, TAEGOO said to me, (An example of a lovely introvert, UM TAEGOO) Oh, that's so funny. That's so TAEGOO-like. He probably thought, He must've plucked up the courage to tell me. &quot;I actually wanted to tell you.&quot; There are many introverts in this industry. Right? Even though this job requires presenting yourself to the public, I feel there are way more introverts, including myself. From what I've experienced, while acting involves expression, it's mostly about imagination before that. You have to absorb so much alone, so I think that might lead (Min Ha's analysis on That's a positive interpretation. Let me give you a negative interpretation. This applies to me. For example, being alone with someone If I'm alone with Min Ha, I'm slightly uncomfortable. If I'm with Min Ha and Seol Hyun, it's a bit better. If the four of us are together, it's better. The best is actually an anonymous crowd. - That's true. When speaking to an anonymous group, but when I'm alone with someone, I become too cautious. I start to overthink, thinking &quot;What if they misunderstand what I'm saying?&quot; (Staring into the distance) That's the case for me. Oh, that's what being shy is. Yes, I'm similar. This feels like a confession session. (A confession session) I really like today's gathering of introverts. Introverts. We're sharing our feelings, and I feel comfortable (Being yourself is okay today) - The project is the result of hard work. Have you seen it? Not yet. (The actors haven't fully watched it yet) So you three are waiting for it as well. (Nodding) When is the release date? (&lt;Light Shop&gt; Premieres on December 4th) The first 4 episodes will be released, then two, then the final two. (A somewhat unique release schedule) There's a reason for it. What is it? There are turning points where a plot twist is revealed. So it's not like the narrative building up until the climax at the end? (Twists await in &lt;Light Shop&gt;) Please watch it (Subtly introducing the 4 2 2 system) Please watch it in that order. The expert-recommended viewing method is 4 2 2. &lt;Light Shop&gt; will be released on December 4th on Disney+ with the 4 2 2 system I'm so excited. - I hope it will be a hit. I enjoyed the snacks and had a good time. Thank you. Next time, our inner connection will probably be five times stronger. (Introvert shyly shares his feelings) (Time to finally go home) Please invite me again. Anytime. - Thank you. (Chattering with Nah)