- I'm Coyote Peterson, one of these two and the other is a crocodile. Do you know which is which? Stay tuned 'cause we're (dramatic tribal music) Welcome back, everyone. OK, so what I have in this is the American alligator. - And what I have in my hands is the American crocodile. - And right now we're And what's really awesome is that this is the where these two reptile's However, catching was far easier said than done. Let's take a look at There's something right here. Hold on, I don't see it. right in front of you. - [Voiceover] Stay if I can get closer. I got a shot on him, so if - [Mario] OK, I got I got it, I got it. - [Coyote] Nice, whew! Great grab. - [Coyote] All right! - [Coyote] Wow, well, is the first piece the American crocodile. Now we just need to find Got an alligator right there. - [Mario] Oh yeah. - [Coyote] All right, full This is one of those things, you don't think about it, you just do it. Ready? - [Coyote] One, two. - [Mario] Got him? - [Coyote] Got him, got him. (Mario cheers) Just barely got him Watch your fingers, here we go, bringing him up. Wow. There it is. All right, now we gotta up close with this Oh man, this is awesome. Look at those teeth. Man, those were some last night, weren't they? - Yeah, I mean how an alligator and a - Certainly a first for me. Now, this is great the opportunity to that a lot of people I'm sure they also ask you, what's the difference between Most people look at a it's one and the Once you get them up you can really see that they're Now, obviously these both crocodilians, and both what, over 200 million years? - [Mario] Oh yeah, absolutely. Their lineage is prehistoric. - [Coyote] So we're pretty - [Mario] Oh yeah. - All right, so first let's in snout structure a really easy way to in the wild, correct? - [Mario] Yeah, that's It's very easy. Crocodiles have a Alligators have a - [Coyote] Yeah, look And that has to do that they're eating. - [Mario] Absolutely, yeah. Crocodiles are more so they're gonna be eating fish. And they want skinnier thrash around and grab the fish. - Right, and I can see that with the tooth structure, those look like little shears. Now look at the we know the alligators raccoons, deer, pretty across these jaws. And they have big their food, pretty much. They crush and Now, one other similarity is a nictitating membrane. And that's really cool. This is kinda like a for when you're Now, let's talk about the because that is You notice that the alligator is very dark in And I would imagine that this in dark, murky water, as well as probably being As we know, reptiles meaning that they need the so that they can go The crocodile, however, is Why is that? - [Mario] Because So these guys live and they're gonna blend - Yeah, you'll notice in the skutes and does almost look like sand. I mean, an alligator like this, if it was in a you could look and not even see Obviously it helps once it comes up to they lunge out of the - [Mario] Another all the scales on the especially around the tail. So, these are what And if you see, the pronounced skutes, The alligator has shorter ones. And those skutes help through the water. - Yeah, you can see that is much more knobby in design, whereas a crocodiles tail... How about that for an Yeah, you really need locked on the neck of the so that he doesn't get but you can maybe just how their tail can And that is all muscle. - This kinda leads to a I get as well, and that Crocodiles tend to have They are considered more but that's not true American crocs are actually Alligators are a little bit because they're more common, and sometimes they're found - Right, so they're to being around humans, but even still in both these animals are to actually eat humans. Often times, I know when it's mistaken identity. Somebody that's dark water specifically, you're thrashing around, you're gonna seem or a fish. And as an opportunistic feeder, then the alligator is - Correct. - Now, aside from the between these two crocodilians, there is something that you can't physically see. The American crocodile is here in south Florida, while the American Far more likely to come than you are a crocodile. If you're out there in the wild and you see a slender snout, consider yourself lucky because it's probably I'm Coyote Peterson, be brave, stay wild, we'll see you You ready to let these - Let's do it. - [Coyote] See you - [Mario] In a while crocodile. - [Coyote] If you thought check out the the alligator snapping turtle and the common snapping turtle. And don't forget, subscribe on this season of