In times of distress I have a tendency to be rather sarcastic because I always say And, that was kind of a you're literally throwing all your You're not being evicted and your wife's Maurice His house flooded in 2022 on the southwest coast of Florida. One of the strongest September hurricanes in decades. Significant storm, again, a Category four. The street on the road will be the same. Trees gone, neighbors And, here I am today rebuilding I love this place. A year later, Maurice They were doubling his premium to $7,500 The year after that, Now on a fixed income retiree, that's not chump change. So Maurice Now, he's one of hundreds of thousands That means they're living with little in a state that is set to have a record And what's going on in Florida This is what happens to the insurance lobby. We went to Florida We found out that residents are being and sketchy insurance companies It's essentially trickle down economics but for insurance companies. And the housing insurance crisis People around the Bay and across the state are now being told their homeowners State Farm says they're discontinuing coverage for some customers. Several major carriers and other states. Experts warn the collapse could take down Should those systems start to collapse it could take down the entire American it could take down the global economy. The water came up to this line right here. At first it's like, it can't get much worse. It can't get much worse. And then it's like, my God, Maurice has lived in Florida Raised in Miami, so hurricanes to us are, You know it's coming, you prepare, you don't get complacent, but you get used to them. Nearly one out of five They've been forced to cut back or go That option Okay, let's back up and talk about how insurance Insurance companies determine premiums Generally speaking, the higher They assess risk factors like the quality your neighborhood, what kind of dog breed you own, and, of course, natural disasters. So, you know, if you have a wildfire risk in California those two things are supposed But as the planet warms the insurance business model And what's happening of climate driven perils in particular the insurance companies are having a difficult time that they've always expected In response, major national carriers Today, 12% of people in the United States Up the coast, in Fort Myers, Florida, -I'm good. How are you? She stayed in her home My son and I stood at the front door and watched-- the rivers right over there-- And here it's going. Nothing we could do. Here it's coming. And then the wind changed and about ten Her roof was damaged, but when she filed the claim, Farm, told her that her policy I don't think we really realized that we were not covered for wind I mean, hurricanes are wind. The next year, State Farm dropped her. They said her house, which was built in I've been with them for 40 years, Yeah. okay. This goes back. Well, he paid this in September of 2022. $881. So, I mean, they had our premiums all State Farm ended that year Like a good neighbor. State Farm is there. The roof damage cost her over $6,000, Okay, you can tell a little bit. There's a little different shade. Cost us $6,292. $6,292 to have it replaced, Priscilla shopped around, but she couldn't I want a company that I know Not some company That seems smart. Yeah. We had that roof damage. I could do it again, I guess. Don't want to, but I guess I could. So what exactly happens to someone If you don't have insurance for your home, or you might face higher mortgage and your home is uninsured, where you face that out-of-pocket costs which could be hundreds So it can be absolutely bankrupting. Priscilla and but if you have a mortgage, So for people who can't find insurance, A state run, not for profit backstop insurer in the state. Citizens property insurance. Citizens property insurance, state Citizens Property in 2002, ten years It's absolutely for sure, no question about it. It is going to happen tonight. Hurricane Andrew was at the time in Florida's history, and it hit was facing the prospects of incredibly And they wanted to avoid that. In 1992, Miami was a city of almost 2 Lawmakers So in 1993, they held an emergency what would later become And it was wildly successful. It did provide insurance to people who But more importantly, it reversed It canceled the possibility of that exodus, and it led to enormous growth. Citizens was supposed to be but then the state was hit and again in 2005. As more parts of Florida Citizens Now, 1.2 million Florida residents This backstop is important. If you start to lose insurance in a community, then the home And as those home values to move away from that community And as the tax base decreases, you have less money for infrastructure and fixing potholes and roads and so on and you start to see this sort of A study from the Environmental Defense could be lost in tax revenue due Homes in coastal Florida, they determined, could be overvalued And if this whole video, you're thinking, here's the national map. But the public model has a major flaw, it's put more people in the path of risk. So it's increased their economic vulnerability, but it's also affected It's affected climate policy on a state level and on a federal level constituents are not expressing urgency to enact policy to address climate change, to lower those risks because they don't feel those risks. None of this has stopped In 2023, a year after Hurricane Lee County's population still grew. But the people who have been able to rebuild Fort Myers Beach is a coastal island It's been a popular resort town Ian was the costliest hurricane The Category four storm did $112 And Fort Myers A third of the homes on the island But the town is rebuilding. Everywhere you look, there are cranes and scaffolding and large RVs We met with Lorrie Curry, a real estate agent who has sold property I think when you drive here, from its original days when it was mainly a little less Lorrie says a lot of the smaller retiree homes that were built in and they're being replaced by rentals just tear it down discounted price, Many former residents struggle to rebuild. A report from Bloomberg especially with the new federal and state $1,000,000. Eight out of ten homes sold the first year It turned out that Lorrie with their insurance company They canceled us. So, yeah. Yeah. They said they weren't going to, and then they did. and initially their insurer Edison, They ended up taking the company to court. They fought us tooth and nail So that's the mentality of insurance know, they like to take your money, So there's a risk involved. Laura and Ron say they were lucky They were able to get a new roof and the cost of the attorney And that's the problem, is some people are very reluctant and reticent yeah, there's a lot of foreclosures. They're walking away. So Fort Myers Beach is an extreme example. But Florida is in the middle are impacting renters we have been in an affordable and the insurance crisis the role of the public option, Citizens, But there's a problem with that. Since the creation of citizens property to keep rates high. The emphasis should always be into the market and not counting on their neighbors The state initially required Even as insurance companies and more, the insurance industry They love the idea of of a last resort leave the dregs the most risky while, in 2007, after those record hurricane Citizens didn't have to be more expensive Right now, these private companies where they are assured a profit risk onto the state The insurance industry hated that. you're in South Florida at 30 to 40% less than the private market, In 2022, And we have to create an environment for your business. You can't dump everybody on citizens The Florida legislature passed insurance law, and Ron DeSantis started The goal was to kick people off of the insurer of last resort But with so many major insurers customers are stuck with companies Yeah, particularly in the last national insurers, the kind that you would recognize Bum, bum, bum, bum, bum, bum. have pulled way back for the most part, And in their place are companies in-state companies They aren't nearly as well capitalized. They're heavily reliant on reinsurance, they buy for themselves. DeSantis is trying but he isn't being very discerning. Enter slide insurance, a startup founded Yes, that Enron. I knew that there were So we raised a tremendous amount on market opportunities and provide the CEO of Slide Insurance, Bruce Lucas, was thrilled about Desantis's The new bills made it harder for customers and create a bigger fund of reinsurance That's the insurance for insurers. And most important, The Washington Post reported that businesses like slide Choose the properties that have the lowest amount of risk prone areas. Lucas laid it all out on a podcast You get the cherry picking policies you are underwriting and cherry kind of the worst ones there. Sometimes policyholders don't even know as long as the new policy premium, You know, you send out these notices mail in the trash can and goes, Next thing Last year, Slide was approved to take over The bad news, it's about 4.3 times what I was quoted for citizens. The premium for the same level of coverage They've also swooped in to buy out policies from insurers like United Property and Casualty This year if I wanted to switch That sounds shady. So just how risky is slide insurance? They aren't a publicly traded company, In interviews, Lucas touts the fact but the more reliable Weiss ratings pointing out that they have low liquidity Reporter Jason Garcia thinks Citizens a public nonprofit that allows it to charge insurance representatives agree. Republican Spencer Roach, and Democrat Hillary Cassel, both think Citizens should be available Think of this as the National Flood But instead of at the federal level, it's in the future, is going to embrace but they're up against a powerful political force Since 2019, when DeSantis was sworn has donated nearly $10 million And the bills DeSantis has passed to the insurance industry. the entire overarching strategy Florida legislature have is to help in the hopes that benefits Okay. So what does this all mean or renter? Florida can prove as a model for what State should provide affordable, not-for-profit plans for residents it's a risk, Paradise has a price, I'm, I'm hoping to live I'm not going anywhere. And while these major insurance companies remember that in 2022, the CEOs of the top made a combined total of over $130 there's one more layer Climate change is increasing that are driving up risks But those same companies Public Citizens' Anne Perrault The insurance companies, including State Farm and Allstate, have major holdings State Farm is also part of ALEC, the group restrictions And for his part, million from donors contributing And this year, he signed a bill and bans construction of offshore What I found is people when they start they typically use that as a pretext wing things This year, the United States that cost We have to be honest Take efforts to fortify homes and cities that doesn't use carbon. Thanks for watching The Class Room We cover stories about economic inequality If there's a topic Comment below. And as always, like and subscribe