Hi guys, welcome to this interesting So in the session, you'll get a complete overview So we'll start this session and conditional formatting and then we'll go through Once you understand through advanced tools and data analysis with introduction to macros. So today we have who's going to take this session Hi, my name is Trisha jagtiani the Advanced module So what's new in 2016 new Pareto, whiskers features, like tell me, smart lookup where you have for slices search functions Many more such functions So let's start with The first is the sum function to sign followed by and the open bracket. So, let's see in our example. Let's say I needed total salary in the organization. So I have the employee list So how do I start is, I need this information So to get started. I will have to enter in cell J 2 followed and then open the parentheses We'll enter the range which we It is a salary column So I select the h2h column and press enter it gives paid by the organization which is 1553825 rupees You must have noticed Column H and not just Why did I do that? I did this in order because if in future to the employee data, the sum function the new data entered say All right. So enter the name and I enter the employee salary just for our example Once I enter the employee salary What happens is you will see that the total salary that we had calculated in column and it is now adding that we have added Let's understand an important which you need to remember before I get to the next or function to work. We need to ensure that we provide correct for it to provide you that there are only four things Now, what are those four things that Excel understands inbuilt function or formulas which are the sum average min Max with the another one is that is showing One is the true or false Is it cell references what does that that we give to the cell of an answer like this one or when I was doing Also, I gave that H to H as above all the data need to be when I say all the data to if I want to give than these four things which I have mentioned in the double quotes that I'm putting other numbers true or false I'll put something like this so we will explore this in detail which is the sum F function the summary function on the single condition. Or the criteria. So let's explore the function in order to start We need to understand the term syntax to understand We will have to understand Every function in Excel has a syntax syntax in using a function as to sign followed and open the bracket It will give you which are these arguments or it that Excel requires in order for it to give you an output. So if you see when I open the summary function the inputs required and the sum range now as used for the sum function. Let's say we need to find to the employees So if you can see our list, Just need to find all the people working So the column that carries that is required by So let's start The range that I have to enter What does the criteria range where your criteria sits I will select column e if you see I am selecting the if there is a addition to the data addition it will automatically First range that I selected Next one is the criteria. Where is the criteria that the South Region, correct? So I'll enter South If you have noticed in the double quotes looking at at the previous data in Bill formulas functions It's still references which is the South does. Fulfill any of these four I will have to put it or the coats. Once I do that. The next thing that I have to enter what is the sum that you selected was because your criteria sits because the criteria is your because you're not going but you're trying paid to the employees We will have to select which is our H to H column close what do we get? Here is the total salaries in the South Region. This is only one answer that I require And that's the reason I Let's look at another example We need a total salary of the employees whose salary So earlier it was like we were looking of the employees and that's the reason three like thirty six thousand. However, this time for the total salaries paid to the employees whose salary How do I do that by again Like I said, the summit function actually and gives you the total Now if you would have noticed every formula will give a syntax like I mentioned earlier The first one is the range and the some rage in the range and the criteria or it's just simply but if you see or the last argument, it sees some range So you have to remember means it is optional What does that mean that input that you're giving to be given in case So in this example, you can give range you if you don't give will consider the ID rearranged as your some range so an optional requirement in our case the first case because we were giving and it does not have a numeric in a numeric values. Hence. We had to give us some range which was our salary where we need a total salary of the employees earning I will not give the sum range. So the first requirement which is the column H where the salary is. Now. What is our requirement or requirement is a criteria It's not only a number It is not true or false So we will have to put it when I put double quotes. I put a more which was the criteria This time, like I said, I'm not going to give will consider criteria range, which is the first range When I press enter. It will give me earned by employees earning Hope this clarifies how to use the sumifs function some f function will give you or cell range where a criteria is met. Okay? Let's see. What is the next Formula or function that we which is the sum function. What is the Just like the sum function sumifs function is that meet multiple criterias. So like I said we only had one criteria in the first example, I was looking at all on by the employees However, in this case, I am looking so We are looking here find the total salaries in the sales department in more than 10,000 rupees. So now if we see your we let's go back to our document where I can write What is my three criterias? So let's look Let's put a small table so we can just put it So to start with I to and then the criteria 3, so let's look at The first one that we paid to the employees So our first criteria Yeah, the second criteria that we have here So the second criteria And the third criteria that I have now your is So I just put Okay, so that becomes as I have three criterias submit because somewhere function for single criteria. So we will be using the sumifs function for the sumifs function that it requires which in our case is the salary because we are looking of the employees. So the first some range so it will total the salary one first criteria is And your the question that we are asking for all for is criteria range one. So if our criteria is sales as the place or the cells where the criteria sets where does our criteria sets Which is the department, so I will select D2D We are going to put this Now comes your What is the criteria range two? The criteria range Where does the Region's it? It is the E column. So I will select e2e as then comes the criteria to when I say region What is my criteria? Criteria is South so I will have to enter that again in the inverted that you're putting They are not case-sensitive. Even if you see sales here You can still put sales Okay going back to our formula once I have entered e2e s out Do we have Yes, we do. What is the Criterion age three because a criteria 3 is salary So I will select What is my criteria So how will I put that I will have to put that in the double quotes the double quotes You will get the total salary as fifty five thousand eight This is the total salary in the sales department working And if they are earning salary more than 10,000 rupees which is our count function. The count function is the count of the cells So going back where I have the list There is only one rage which is the I will perform the count that to start with I with an equal to sign which is in our case count and I will select the column H or the bracket, press enter. It will give me an answer 1:01 because that's the total that contains the numeric value. Next comes our count a function while count function numeric data count The number of cells well as text or characters. So when I say this using I will use region column to Why do I do that in we use the salary column because the count function will I'm going to use a region column how many cells or how many employees are working So to At with again. I will do count a function count as well as text or characters characters like double quotes or a space as a character count I'll not take salary. It will count the numbers how it works with So I go back I close the bracket enter. It shows me hundred and Why does it show while the first one showed the reason being count of cells containing Our number of cells that contain numbers However, if I am looking it also has the heading So that is the text. So if I start with region and go till the end it is that contains the characters So in this case, how do you avoid It's not a wrong in case if Asking you get in the organization. You will use because you don't have We will still use the information after that. You know that the heading in this function. So we will always get used to putting minus 1 So for example count a e to e, which is this solemn once you this is just a trick it nothing to do with your first heading as well. There is another thing that I would want to show because I told you it will count or the character in our example. We also have another data where we have numbers as well So in this case, these are alphanumeric data because it starts with an A. It has alphabets in it. So it is considered as a text So just to see whether a count Function and characters we will do a count a function again and We will use the employee code which is a to press enter again, it will give me a hundred and because it is taking So again, we'll just to get the correct answer. So just remember this why we when the count function also the heading and we don't want We will use minus 1 to the next one, which is the countif function The number of cells that meet a particular condition if can be used to count cells that matches Pacific criteria. So like we learned some function and the summit function and the counter function so the countif function which contains numbers or the text the countif characters text everything only if a particular condition is met in our example of employee data. We have to identify number of employees working So here is the admin for the counter function So let's look at that. So how do I start These are the two syntaxes that it gives the first syntax like the sum function. The first range is There is no such thing as count We had some range We don't have a count range. Why because it can count So the first one What is our condition is that the Should Be Edwin so my first criteria range and what will be my criteria the criteria Will Be Edwin. So I will put Edwin again these are not case-sensitive so you can put admin in double quotes the total employees working Okay, just to cross verify we go How many employees are there I filter by Edmund I select the whole data now only if I select discussion me as it will give me that heading Well, so rather than that, I will only select this cells So it is 11 in number moving on which is a countifs function. Like we learned We also have countifs function. How does the countif function to some arrange that fulfills Used to count number that meets multiple conditions. For example, the question of employees working in marketing department earning Now, there are two condition that needs to be fulfilled What are those two conditions Because we have Okay. So our conditions are what and the criteria? Let's go back What is it syntax, so I open it I get a criteria range one So let's put it that way to we have only We don't have more than that. So what is our first criteria? Our first criteria is that we want in the marketing department. So Department as marketing now, we are putting However, when you are entering you will have to be careful. You cannot put marketing because the spelling in M. KT G department has marketing and what is our second Condition So I will put it here So these are two conditions is equal to countifs. Open the bracket. What is the criteria range one? First one is So I will select Department What is my criteria one? It is marketing. Like I said, I cannot enter marketing if I entered that Excel will not be able in the department know where is the swelling as mark2 ing So to avoid these kind what is given on the database. So in our database it is M KT G. I put that MTG in double quotes. To the next one which is criteria range two in our case which is the H to H column. So I select H to H comma to which is 15,000 rupees. So I'll have to put that in the double quotes the double quotes close it will give me the total number of employees working with celery more the result is 9 moving on which is the average Returns the average of arguments which can be numbers that contains numbers which means average like count that contains numbers again for the some we of the total salary in the organization. So the sum was too Actively 3825 after adding We will also now look at what to the employees. So to start with we will start with an equal to sign enter open parenthesis enter which is in our case has and press enter. So our total salary or the average salary in the organization as twenty thousand three as it is .90 now, in this case, it will only count the numbers but also there is another function known like account Axl also which will give an average numbers as well as text How is the average calculated if no numbers are available adds the numeric value and divides the total number and Reach a evaluates when I say true as one if there is any data it will calculate if there is no data available that as 0 so it will not add up So we have which is the employee code data. If I'm just trying of this salary information. I will just get if I do it every J. However, if I do every day where I have the text as well as the numbers it which I have with just plus where I have the text. It will take it as true. Each text will be taken as 1 and if there is any blank space for example from your if I do average a say in the next column just open the parentheses. I select a to a as and press enter it will give for say example. If I delete one of the data what happens is it changes If you see the difference and six thousand four hundred. Why does this happen is because as soon as I from your this information And so this becomes 0. So once I become 0 it as a zero information, it doesn't calculate that and it by the number of values. Okay. So what is the total 1 0 1 so it will divide that by 1 0 1 so that's how the average Next is our average IF function and counter functions average of selected arguments So In Sum, if it will some the data are fulfilled encounters, it will count the data Same an average of it if the condition is fulfilled. So let's go to our example It says find the average salary in the South Region. So there is only one condition that I have this time to start or to understand its index. I'll put average if open the bracket it one is the range and third one is If you remember some the same as the submit function It says average range while in somewhere that's the only difference and the average rain. So to start with the first range What is a criteria your Where does the region sit e2e as our criteria range. What is the criteria so we will Puts out And then the average range. In this case. We are going to average the salary data at the average salary pay to the So I'll select H to H because I want to average the It will give me the average in the South Region. Okay moving on to the next function in our list We will illustrate three functions to The functions are the round We will start with around function will round of decimal points specified We have number s 14.7 261 and I select the number I need Around I select the number press the comma it says the number and then it's ask me What is this number of digits? It is asking me how many decimal point how many decimal places do you So say for example There are four digits I only want to so I enter to It will round up or it will round after the second decimal point when there were more if it is more than 5 to the previous digit for here in our case if you see properly if you see it says 726160726 that one will be added to 2 which becomes one more and the 61 is removed So Answer becomes 114 .73. So this is how we around function works if I had put round function and this time I select the number of digits say I want and close the bracket enter because the second number which is 2 is not either 5 That's the reason So this is showing is 114 .7 The next one is around a function always from zero from our example. We want round a number We will input the formula in cell C2 is equal to round as a 1 comma I'll just put and limit now if you see properly when I put only round function is showing me as because the next digit about was the number two. Now this number two is That's the reason it However Roundup function what it does is it when I say away from the zero, it will not leave it as seven. It will automatically because there is some digit so it will automatically add one and give you one 14.8 next. We will learn as around and function always rounds So this is the other way round to the nearest integer. Let's see in our example Number one 14.7 261 let's round So we say round down open that we want to round We don't want any digits or Numbers after I press enter I get if you remember again going in normal situation, we would have done it Okay. However in this case because it is going that means it will not add up It will remove all Just like if you see I will try the round down rather former to close if in this case when I did two decimal points because it was more Number two, two and gave me but if you see down even with the same it is not adding up the six even if it is more than 5 into the previous rigid and it is giving me Yeah. So this is how we No moving on to the next one which is the concatenate joins two texts together. Now when I say join that means it will join the text It will join them and get For example, if we have name and the surname in our example, like we have here name and We've can get them in one cell That's the example on my sheet. I have to start with I want to combine and surname in this cell, which is the cell G by using in such a way that the first name in the last name has So let's see first with the normal concatenate and surname in the same cell concatenate Open Bracket. The syntax of the concatenate 2 comma text. You keep on doing that I will select for the text because the first name So I select E2 then I do comma then I have to select which is sitting in F2 once I select that close and the surname However, as I said earlier, I need the data in such a way that there has to be a space how do I get that now? So as you are aware, if you go back this time I'll start with the function the concatenate Open Bracket. I select the first text I will not select to which is the f 2 I will have which will become The text was your surname cause we want a space will be considered as text in the Code why because space is which Excel does only understands it in build functions numbers true in our case. They are none of them. So what we'll have to put it in the codes. So I go back to my sheet. I enter the space in the courts. Now, this becomes my text to what is my decks so I select last name. I close the bracket, press enter if you see between the text one and and the surname now to the rest of the cells. I can use my fill handle. What is the full handle on this cell? You'll see a small square here once I keep my cursor There is a cross sign that appears as soon as I Just need to double for it to copy it Now, when I double-click it will only work on the cells if there is any data on the left So if I had entered in some other sense you're enter now. If I try to double it doesn't work. What do I do in that case? I'll have to drag where I need to stop because if there is any data that it has to stop your or it to the rest of the cells Till There is a data in the previous cell or on So this is how you can do a concatenate function Now if you would have realized a very big I'll tell how you can use to avoid when entering a function because if you do like this is what I did. I start with my formula it will not give you a syntax once you press on enter So how to avoid that. There is a very I first start with an equal concatenate which is conc a as soon as I entered conc Even if I try with see that starts with c but there are too big so I will at least put to only two formulas. I will select the one Okay double click on that it will automatically Now, you can select The first text is and the last name sell. This is how you can use You can also do if I put some it will give that is starting with some so I can use summer function it Could for me this or a trick to actually ensure that you don't miss out or you don't make when entering a function also if I enter concat second CA I select the data that I want rather than I will press on Tab it will for me the similar way that we So this is how we are concatenate works which is the index function the returns a value in a table based and the columns so supposing with their unit price This is an order ID unit We want to use So here we have the unit price and the quantity we want to use for the TT of oranges sold that in cell where you Let's start by typing So is equal to index The first requirement is the array as per where you want to pick this is our table. What do I want is the quantity I want to answer as 10. So let's start that the index function 812 D7 that is my table comma in the oranges, which row number is oranges what is row and the column So if I'm going back just These are called Rose where you see one, two, three this and the rows or referred to by okay while your vertical It while the horizontal So vertical part, which is your column is referred to by the alphabets with an index function I am entering in deck is equal I select the array which is a one to D7. Now. I have to provide the row from where we need to derive It is 3 y because we are looking for oranges oranges how this is one stroke. This is second row. This is the third row. This is according to your table. So I put 3 as my row number now, I have to type the column number because now I've got this row from buttocks and wants to know so I'll have to tell Excel that. I want quantity and quantity sitting in which so I enter for Once I close will get the result as 10 which is the quantity This is how we are to something similar function, which is called as like in the index function. It will tell you which row and column you have to work on It is similar However, we will between the index and the roof what does area offset function a reference to a range that is a given number of rows and column For example, I am giving This is my reference. So I am telling from a to give in the index function if I go second row what will it do? It will look at the second row because I am which is So this is second row. This is third row which column and I'm looking So it will give However, if I did it for example, I say offset I cannot select the array I have to give a reference cell references a one now my row number that I which is 1/2. In this case. I have because oranges is sitting in the second row which is cell A1. So I'll have to say 2 comma for I'm looking for the column which is after this reference I sprut 3 close So if you see the difference and the set function is that in an index function you from the first row and it gives you whichever number you have given and that column however in the offset function you that cell is Not and the column is for a 1 if I select and say second row It is not counting this the next one as one row and then the next row Also the column the same way as this column is because this is It will select this as and this is the third row. This is the difference and the offset function. Now if you would have seen there is also that is given there or the inputs that requires Where is this useful the height and the width means with the vertical data. This is called as the height Where is this useful? And how is it useful? This will be useful when you are using with the any other function like you're using offset with is equal to some open I want to some some But instead of selecting the offset function to select how I will I open the bracket this time. I'm giving the reference and then I'm looking so I'm looking for some and West together. So I'll start which is the month this time. I want to give from February. So which row I'm going to second row is February. So I'll put two However, I want to give from the next one. I don't want to start because it will It has to some because after this cell so I will give 2 comma 1 because It will look So now I want to tell Excel Ray March April and May so how much height for the height becomes 4 rows because height will So I say one two, so the hide I'll give us for because I am trying February March April May and that four months are So one two, three four, I will put it as 4 comma Now So how many columns they are trying to say East So it is February March the height which you because they are rose and now which is true with so I'll say and close the bracket for some press enter. It will give me an answer verify I will select May data see the answer not only some you can do average Count you can do with the offset function along So this was how you Next is the match function for a specified item and then Returns the relative in the range sticking as we did for index. Let's use the match to figure So what we did earlier was we of the oranges you I am trying to find which row So what does match do if you give a name like for example oranges it will identify which row how does that work is to and the match where I want the answer the for the match function What is my lookup value? This is oranges. So I will type oranges which is my lookup value because I'm looking I am looking to find out under select all the cells including the header, which is this part because I am trying to find so it is sitting on a 1-2-3 row, but instead of writing identify for me which row So what do I do is It will automatically As soon as I put comma than exact match and greater We have to look for the exact match So if it is oranges, it should only look for oranges So we will select the bracket enter it If you go back if you see the index function, the first thing because we are telling them that this table look Next one was row number. Why did we look at row number? Because we were looking where the Orange is sit that we were sitting we found by one two, three. However, if we use the match function and select be automatically identified So instead of the three the match function This will make the index So even if I moved oranges if I move it to some other cell, let's say I'm moving So the oranges is now which is column 7, but in our case, it will not give you the correct 10 which is not correct. It should be ideally 35 it because we have given It is going to 3 it is going to for and giving So to ensure that that doesn't happen inside the index function by replacing three What will happen is this time? You will see that it automatically picked which is 35 same you can use We are trying to identify. Where is this quantity sit? So what I can do I can do What is it that I'm looking I'm looking for where it is sitting now quantity I know is sitting So what I'll do is instead of looking for quantity Where is a lookup array. It is in the first row. So I'll select the first row So I will put 0 close It gives me that to my index function Replace for with that I have done here without the equal to go back and then replace for with the match function if I move it will automatically pick the answer that Let me move it to the first one dynamic dynamic means even if there is any change it will automatically give so you should see that the oranges if I move also my quantity in the middle somewhere before see it will still give because now match is looking and the quantity is 3 So that's how you can use index and match together or make it more Dynamic. Okay moving on which is our main function Is a function that Returns in the range of cells or in like in our example, again, we have the salary information a hundred and one employees. Now, I want to know that I am paying So to identify that I would just put is equal I will have to select because I am identifying of this salary column. So I select that close will give me the salary Okay. So five thousand nine hundred the minimum salary that I am paying So the same goes So earlier we learned how do I get the minimum same I want to know. What is the maximum salary So is equal to Mac open the bracket select because it is the salary. That I am trying to understand. What is the maximum close the bracket enter. It gives me the maximum salary So this is how we are Min This is a very easy, but it's very useful formula to the next function We've already seen the Min We'll see the trim function The Unwanted spaces It will only remove spaces if any so if you want its Paces from a text. We will see in our example say and at the end of some text say I'm just entering some spaces to understand so I'm putting I'm putting spaces in the end There are two spaces and Sima one space in So that I've entered I'm putting a space So two spaces in the middle. Okay, same goes with adri now because what happens is when I'm doing a formula it will not work. So I have to remove the spaces. So how to start with I'll have is equal to trim open because from each one of them. I want to remove the spaces. So I select the first cell which is be to close I select this cell enter again I double click on it. It will automatically take If you see properly all with these pieces. However, for pankaj only If you see properly there only one space is so in Bunker's Excel will only when I say unwanted There is no space There is no space Also if there is one space but if there are in the middle Excel remove those faces. How do I ensure now that the data without de and pasted in these cells. What do I do for that I copy I go back to my cell I click on this. I right click on the first cell and there is something why am I doing if you see there is if I copy this data and directly paste It will try to copy that formula Okay, so we want So what we'll do is I'll go back to my cell where I want this data on that cell click on paste special then click once I do that you will see that there is a formula However, there is Okay, again, just to ensure that we are at the right pace We had put two spaces pankaj only has one space just Now so that's So moving on now to the next which is the Len function. What does an end function do of characters in a string. So when I say a number that means that it is looking that contain a text. What is the number or what For example, if I want to know how many characters so what I'll do is is equal I'll enter that and for which I want to know how many characters are there is 11 characters. So it says, how do I calculate that start now it is giving me But if I want to put what happens it becomes because the space is also it becomes a I will use the format painter that back to the normal data Okay. This is how your Len function Let's start with the next QR T. SQ r t function Returns For example, I where I have put some numbers I need to find the square root So I put is equal I select the number which I need the square root It is fourteen point like earlier, you can reduce by just clicking on You can increase So I just keep on clicking Okay, so we leave it as it is now again or you can just Drag the formula and it will give me the square I do not want any decimal point This is how you This is a financial function, which is more used for the financial industry. Again, this is a demo which If you want to just come is a very important function The IF function because it gives you an option If a particular condition is met of employees going back to my sheet in the I have the list with their Department has decided to give in the sales department and others will get So to identify how to get a commission will use the if formula so who are in the sales department The commission column as 20,000. So for example in the first one It will show is So here it should Next one is admin again. So again zero marketing again 0 for the sales departments We should be able that needs to be paid So we will have to use with the IF function again is equal to if as the syntax says the first data that is required that is required for the function logical test means The condition that we have is that we are looking to give in the sales department. So what are we looking So the first employee so I select D2 is that we want if they are So I am saying is equal. Sales in the double quotes So As soon as I entered I have to put a comma next input or the next argument So what we are telling Excel is That means d 2 is the department if is sales, give me what if it is true that means if the department for the first employee 0 so I close the bracket It is giving me zero because it is admin Department an admin department. Now again, just like earlier we mentioned we or using the fill handle. I can double click for each one of them. Now the formula that the formula is rack CD 2 is equal to sales while I go down the formula from D2 to D3. Why because it is now moving the three then D4 and D5 So it is automatically calculating from the respective which is so mentioned a is Shri It is checking and the suman's So Excel has automatically Next we are checking for called Department detail isn't D automatically depict as D 4 is equal to sales because it is not It is automatically So I hope the IF function is It's a very easy formula So again looking which we have given as the value of true is because what is it that we need if this logical test And the value if false is if the condition What is the value that we want? This is how we are if I'm starting I will write down The first logical test is Second logical test is but less than 10,000. This is my second logical test more than 10,000 but less is salary more than 15,000 but is less than 20,000 and my fifth and last is more than 20,000. These are my conditions. However, when I start I have a total employee list out of these hundred and one for example, I am just looking at anybody salary So in the first condition as as there are ten employees who are earning salary So what happens is out that I see I will have to deduct 10 employees or earning So the answer for them will be to the next one. If I start with the second one, I realize that as that is a 10 employee They sit in the first bucket Which is less than 5 are automatically removed and we are left These 91 employees to be earning salary Why because the that we identified So whatever is left is all earning more than That so we an IF function that if they are earning We will directly start and this time if it is less than 10,000 So if for example, who are earning less than 10,000 from this 10 so I minus 10 again. I get how many 81 so Now out of the Everybody is owning or more than 5,000. Why because we from hundred and one employees. The 10 employees Another 10 employees are earning We are left with 81 employees who are earning more than 5,000 So now going to the next one more than 10,000 because everybody else is warning more We will select. Listen, 10,000 say I've identified 15 people So I enter less than 15,000. This will be written as When I go to the next bucket. So these three What are the three buckets are one is less than five and less than 15,000. So now out of that how many people are left that is 66 employees of a hundred and one employees who are now owning So we know that these 66 employees are all learning because we have already put them So left is all more than Also, there is where we are identifying if there is any employees So say we have identified less than 20,000. So we'll put it here and our Data will be We have identified that we removed. We identified that only who are running for more than 20,000 why we because we have put where either they are earning less than 50,000 So whatever is left is all So they are 41 of them and we will put So this is how we are going how are we going So looking at this example I will have to go and enter the data which is against Am I didn't I am trying salary less than 5,000 less or less than Was it or it is more than 20,000. So where is the salary data? It is in the H2 for Raja. So the first thing IF function h 2 is give me what less than 5 K. So for the first requirement that is less than 5,000 in this bucket, which is the first bucket now have automatically come which is more than 5,000 So now I will go I'll have to select H2 because I'm now seeing Then we have to check So I put h 2 less than 10,000 if h 2 is less than 10,000 then If you see The Logical value to put less than 10 K which is a logical test is if h 2 is less than 15,000. This is my third bucket If it is true, I'll have to put less than 15 K Now the fourth logical test if h 2 is less than 20,000 If yes, give me If you see in this one, there is no such thing in the ifs function we had value So what do we do we have identified that this number is It is not less than 10,000. It is not less than 15,000. It is not less than 20,000. What is left is it is So what we can do is another one which is h like we normally do greater than 20,000 than Okay close the bracket. Now when we are closing to close only once and you get that answer drag it and you will get it that you had now. This is 7,000 Which But more than 5,000. This is 12,000 250 It shows less than 15,000. Why because it is What more than 10,000 and 15,000 likewise. You will see data Now. because it is 15,000 750 but less than 20,000. This is how you use a desired result. There is also something called is replacing that nested But if you have any version will have to use the nested to the PPT and see which is the end function if all logical arguments inside. Functional true and if they are true if one of them is false like we are going to any sheet and trying to identify that we do like enough function. We are giving different So if you are giving if they are true, then it will automatically or it will give you an answer as I am trying in the sales department working So to start with I want to identify all the employees within the sales department it should show me an answer not in the sales department It should show me as fault. So both the condition what are the two conditions and the second condition is if both the Conditions the answer should be true Otherwise, it should So, how do I do that? I'll put an end function in the cell where I So I want an answer because I want true everywhere where there is sales and East or north or south. It should be me or false and any other region So both the conditions have and reach invest. So what I am saying is the first So for Roger romantic if department is sale. So I will do d 2 That's one requirement. That's my logical one. Second logical is what I go to E 2 because that's E2 is equal to West I close the bracket enter. I get a false answer because Raja is No doubt, however the region that if the region is sales only then give when I drag this formula dunk, it will check if they're ever and the department is sales. It will give me a true answer you'll see it's she's working in the sales department and for We are getting an answer with everyone else. So we hardly have few such employees where both Now, we have another function What does the or function and function it will look being fulfilled like both the conditions but with the or function only one of the conditions For example, I want an answer in the sales department or in So I'm saying that I should get an answer as true. If the department is marketing Otherwise if it or marketing I should get how do I do that so I can only think which is the or function So to start with the function, I will put an equal to sign and I'll put My first logical test is So D2 is equal to sales. This is or so you remember that either it is sales So first logical which is d 2 is equal to sales. The second logical test is again d 2 is equal to marketing if you remember in the earlier functions what is the spelling so marketing is not There is a short form which is M KT G where the full form is. When used in that case you are. Not going to use in the formulas. You have to see exactly that needs to be entered Now, I close the bracket. Now wherever there is sales or marketing it will n true answer. So this is how it gives so true This is sales again. This is true because it is marketing be nice in I can see true for with marketing again because they're trees working That's the and likewise you This is how we are Next one is your today function and very useful function. This function is used So to identify the current date to today open the bracket and press enter it the format of that cell and give me the today's date I was in an 18 and that's the reason it Now. because I have entered it But if you are trying it it will give you the date. What is there on your system? It is always the system date if your system date will also check this state which is on your system So you will have to ensure that your system data What is a quick access toolbar access to frequently used When I say application. It is our MS Excel this sits of the Excel worksheet. Let's explore this on our Excel workbook the sits which is on the top You will see a small drop which you can click and this is where you will get other options that you can add So this is Toolbar by default quick access and save button. So this is your save button, which is already there This is your undo button. And this is your redo button. You will have Why default on the Other than that you can add on the quick access toolbar which you see the arrow key you're going to use I have added new workbook access I have also added an open option because I keep using these two So next time if I want to open a new blank to file click on open and I would just click and where I can see this icon for a new workbook It will automatically open Same goes with the another. If you see there is which is there because I have already added that to my access toolbar It will give me an option that I want to open So this is how you can keep that you need from I have also added when I click it will which I have your or the new email and I just have to add who has to receive this file it will automatically and me going to Outlook attaching this file which I have added. It will automatically open the email for me same These are all added by just and all these options You just need to click on that Like I said, I have added open I have added spelling so that are added nearly. So when I click on them, that should be a tick So if it is a tick mark, that means the quick access on the toolbar so like for example automatic because there is a tick mark because there is a tick mark that you can see There's a tick mark on it. If I add something new like I had sort ascending to my quick access when I want to sort some data if I want to sort I can just click on this button and it For example, if I go to the central column on this sort A to Z, which is the smallest will automatically sort the data and give me data as and the largest value Isn't this easy Also, these are the things they're showing on the quick However, if you that you want to add which you cannot find you can click which I just showed you like go to this drop-down click It will even give that you can add to your quick chart conditional formatting These all can be added to our quick access toolbar all to how many times you on a frequent basis. So if you use any command you can add them If you want to remove which are already there You can just click It will go away you will see not there now to add I will go back and click. And that's a burden again. If I want to remove one that we just added I will click on that again that sort So the sorted ascending on the quick access toolbar how We have already seen how you can use the quick on different buttons going if you have the new which I just showed you how you can click on that just which are looking for their day for different commands. If you have spelling if you have a new workbook that you want to open it with a small tent on the side. Then you will have of a icon which will tell you that if you want to open a new or your computer. You can just click on this. This is how you access Like I said, we are moving onto What is the conditional formatting is a feature of excel A format to a cell or a range of cells based Now. I can color a certain For example, in this case. I can color maybe only cells that contains marketing and I can color them in red that I feel is required. I can color them So why would I color is it would because sometimes you that how many people are there So I will just color those cells that contains the marketing So let's go back and see There are different things that are available under conditional formatting to one or more cells when you use conditional You will have to first So let's see all conditional conditional formatting can first of all hi Light in your spreadsheet. So for example in my spreadsheet I have the first name last name date and salary everything Why do I say everything else except employee code because first name the same first name two, people can have the same last name Department of employees region of employees same goes with while it can be unique lot on the same date same So what is the unique value that you can see in this database every employee will have Now we need to identify if there is any duplicate value Why are we doing this? It may have happened that when a Char They mistakenly He added for two employees. So we just need to identify if there are then they So instead of looking and finding out We will use a conditional formatting will color which has duplicate values. Let's see, how does that work? I select the whole to conditional formatting which is under in the ribbon under conditional formatting and then click As soon as you click There is a new window a format cells that contain. There are two options or unique as of now. We are looking at duplicate So I click on duplicate Which color do you want to give can select from These few colors so it is light red fill It will look Then we have yellow fill Then we have green fill Then we have more options So there is no change in a font only the fill Then we have read text. That means there will be no film only the red text Next is red border to those cells where there So no other change in that and then there is What does custom formatting do It will take me to a new window which is the or You can decide what format you either you want or you want to make it bold and italic or you want them which are duplicates and then click on OK it which has a duplicate Don't bold and italic I don't think I don't think I need I can use one of the films I will use pink color but it is good which one is a duplicate value. I click on OK, there's colored the one So what happens is now you will see all the duplicates So if there are two values that are same like which is in A4. It also is the same number sits So if there are two values or the two cells both the cells will be colored. So it will tell you So this is how you can identify the duplicate values by using Next is highlight the text Let's see. The next one on conditional with the values greater than We have already seen that in conditional formatting that is met it will that you have chosen for it. So in this example as well, we will put in a conditional we are looking for. If you have any number any cell that fulfills the condition it will automatically So in that case, I want to know all more than 10,000 rupees by go on I click on highlight cell rules. There is an option named greater than I click on greater to enter the number that if it is greater needs to be highlighted. So I have say because I am saying any employee or earning salary They are salary column or their salary cell So I enter 10,000 in this car. Or in this stable that I want the cell I want it in red color. So I'll select Ok. Now anybody whose salary It will automatically give You can use different formats. Like I said other than only if I want to change say any suburi salary is I want to change and currency should be I go to currency which is under numbers are use the symbol your Rupee symbol So wherever the salary is It will give me that rupee because it is showing as to see this now. It is also sorted So it is showing after 10,000 rupees. It is all colored in red Next is these numbers if I want to know salary less than 10,000 in green and also they are in a currency format So I go to highlight than value this time. It has to be 10,000 again, but my color has to change Dark green text. Like I said, you can always use your formatting Zone this time. We want to change and the current she If you want to change the like your dollar sign that you need you now dollar sign can also be whichever you think you the currency for in this case. We are going to leave So I will just And then rupees click on OK if you don't want have You can always remove on these things zero as You want to just keep on The number of decimal points I don't want any decimal point. So I have put it as 0 here. Click on OK, it will change the format Plus it will give because I have requested to put a green color that has value less than 10,000. This is how you can use Now next one that we will see is In this case. We have already colored the more than salary 10,000 However, if you want of the conditional you can select the cells where you want to remove from so I'll click then I will click There is an option to clear or clear rule So if I click on clear rule it will remove the rules which are added Also, like the employee code where we had the rule So I just want to remove in a salary column. So I'll click on clear rule that will remove the rule there which we had added Now. What I want to do is I want That means if the salary is I need those cells I'll have to select again on conditional formatting and then click on between once I click on between then two different numbers because we are looking for between 10,000 and 20,000. So the first value The second value will be 20,000. So between these numbers if they see any cells They have So I will click on. Hello. I click. Ok. Now the rule is added to these cells wherever they but less than 20,000 it will So you will see that it is only colored the salary as 19150. After that when it was 20,000 because it is more than 20,000. So now a new rule is when added So not only these that we were looking we can also do a conditional say in the first part. I also told you that if I where I can see marketing in green so I can again and then click on text that contains marketing so I can say m KT G wherever and not marketing because the Your is M K TG and not the full spelling So you will again have to be like in the first when we were doing if we have to write M K TG Same goes with We will have to put because then Excel ktg in those cells. Once it finds the MTG what does X and supposed to do So I select the green fill with dark green text like I said from the custom formatting But in this case we So I select green click which contains M and give me a green color that you can use under the text function is equal and duplicate values. So duplicate values like we saw with any cells which has numbers So wherever it finds or the same text It will color both the cells. So this is how we are There is also other options which are known as the data bars How does this data bar? And the color sets work and icon sets set that create visual these conditional formats make of a range of cells If you see the data bars, which has different colors and the solid fill will see how does this data bar work So just like the graphs where we have those column You will see how do we do that is if I want to say give a colors or a data bar to where in the highest salary with a smaller ones as well. Let's see. How does that work? So I select to conditional formatting click. On data bars and then I click If I click on the gradient fill next to each of the values. If you see the bars next to each that the bar So let's sort it in such a way so that we can also between how is it So I sought esper salary from largest to smallest now, you will see which is given to sheetal is the highest salary in the organization now which is given there is compared and then the data bar size is changing according So 49,000 is highest which is close to 50,000 And that's the reason that the data bar Went further down like go You will see because then thousand is has even become smaller, which is it has gone So the data bar, which is there that gives you of where your data sets as compared to the highest So next is the color scale on conditional formatting you understand data distribution and variation such as over time cells are shaded with that correspond to minimum So, let's see. How does this color I will select this color scheme. Let me remove which are already there back click on color scale select or the whole sheet that you want to apply to on the Home tab tab. Click on conditional Then click on the that you want by default for three color scales Excel I'll tell you As soon as I click Scale, you will see that it has given the green then it goes down and it gives different colors So there is this another and then it gets red. So if I want to see how is this working in the manager rule box. I will check how many colors are there in this there are as I click on the ones which I for I can see there one is the lowest value. I have red color then I have given green color for is the midpoint midpoint We can also change I don't want to keep a % L. I want to keep something because ha For 49,000 So let's keep 24,500 as a I can change it to number if I want to change it that also I can do but as of now say 24,500. So if it is the highest value which is 49,000 the lowest value as read it can change the color as it is. The midpoint will be Now when I click on OK and OK it will automatically as read the highest value will which is 0 and the midpoint as 24,500 should be yellow. So, let's see. Where is our 24,500. This is a 24,500. So this is all yellow color. So depending on which color you those colors and the rest Our colored proportionately how we can customize those cells if I want to click on these I can click on more rules. I can always change to to color scale. So instead of three it will be only two color scale and so the lowest value will be yellow. And the rest of the cells this time you will see that the colors I have really because you are number that we have is So the proportionate colors are So this is how we are Next we are going How does their icon If I click on if I select the whole cell I click on the icon set that I wanted a directional one like we have the signal Those two color and the colors will be given as we saw in the color scale. So if I am selecting which is the highest which is the lowest So for example, you will see 49,000 is in the green color and it is showing the arrow of course like we all know It is showing me as when it is highest value. It shows the arrow is up The arrow goes on the right if the arrow goes down if you again see the icon set Yo, if you don't you can also use which are without the colors. They are all Gray colored so they will not give So I just go back I change will have to click The one that you're going on that particular icon that You want to change to now and click on ok. Now they are all gree it of the text but everything So this is how we are with icon sets will work. Let's go back so we have already seen that how does your conditional conditional formatting You can also use formulas. For example, we have in order to identify if that condition is met only I want to First remove which is there on these sheets. So I will just click click on conditional And then there is from the entire sheet. I click on that the conditional formatting Now. What are we trying to do is or get the color on the cells which meets a certain Condition with the formula say I want how many are numbers so if you will see are either alphanumeric codes or there are few of I only want to know the ones so I will select the a column because they are to conditional formatting then I will click Bond new rule as There is an last option that says use a formula to under the formula tab where I have to enter I will enter is equal I am looking for all the cells So I'm going to enter is equal and then select the cells which can contain how do you highlight So only if the condition is what the formula will be So we'll see that in the employee code column you have numbers as well So the employees They are employee codes where only numeric who's joined three years back Their employee codes So I just want to identify a numeric data and I want that to be highlighted So what I'll do is where I want the color which is because I'm looking on conditional formatting go because this time we the formula to determine So I'll click on use which cells to format then where this formula is true. I will enter the formula the bracket because I I'll have to start which is a 1 so I A 1 so I am saying that if a 1 is a number If A1 is not a number then So I'll just click a blue color. I click on OK wherever It will automatically give So I will be able to identify which are the employees five years prior or they This is have Let's move on to our PPT. And how does is Formula work? So there are that you can use in Excel. One of them is z is numbers. What does it do is if it is a number it will say If it is not a number For example, we just learned that if it is a number it that in blue. There is also an option That means if it is will highlight them that you mention if it is not an odd number So See even the salary column so I go to news rules. I select the salary column Then I click on use which cell to format then where this formula is true or open the bracket I have selected from So I'll have to select which has H1 close the bracket and now I will decide I want the yellow color. So I select the yellow color and click on OK it which is odd numbers The rest of them So these are is functions that you can use in order You can also use any cell like we use more than data or greater You're in the You can also use where you can put c 3 Maybe I want to know. Employee that is earning I want them to So what I'll do is use which cell to format where this formula is true. I will take H 1 again because I'm selecting to H 1 is greater However, we are using that now this time I'm going to So wherever there is in salary It will automatically that is less than 10,000. It will leave that we had same thing. You can use the less than sign. Also wherever you that you can see here is you where you see a as format if you see the students under the marks in mathematics. There is a score that is given according to the scores You'll see ABCD depending on their marks that they We want to know anybody in that case under the Formula We will put b 2 because we are starting with from the First Column if the data starts which is b 1 then we will have but we are starting where that is That's the reason we How can we logically and function and or functions So, let's see how we are going and and the or functions for us to understand how to use and function we which are the conditions that we have say in our example I have to color all where the department is sales and the region is not so we have Department as sales and the second condition So these are the two conditions that we have for So both the conditions have to for the conditional There are three things that we how to identify how to color or different cell depending on the conditions So, for example, I want to color employee code fulfilled in column D and column e so to start with I because I want the color So I select way to a I go I click on new rules I'll go to use a formula to determine which cell where this formula is true. I will enter is equal I have to condition so I have to use after the and function I in the database, which is d 1. I'll have to type d 1 Why I will tell you that dollar sign comes and then not apply and so you will not get So it's better So the first condition We will always put sales Second condition is e 1 is equal to North so I put in no case sensitivity So my condition is has if this department is sales and the region is not I want So I select the green color in the custom and then I click on OK is a sales department it will give me a color for that corresponding data So wherever you find sales are will be colored same goes if I want to color. This time I want to color the department column wherever so I will select the department. I'll go to conditional on new rules again use which cells to format where this formula is true I with D or function. Why do I do an or function because I am looking for sales or marketing either are fulfilled then so I say d 1 is equal to sales right even again because I am looking if it is either sales or marketing marketing the quotes close the bracket. Now my condition has or marketing color. It has yellow so I and then I click on OK it will automatically Sales, and the marketing So this is how you can use in the conditional So let's start with There are four logical functions Let's see, how does the not ends or functions work Returns the opposite that means any value that I give it will return So let's see using the example that we have on our sheet and their scores or their marks. They have scored Now, let's say we have that has failed in maths. They're passing marks We can use not function. So how do we start us is equal to not open the bracket enter where the Marxist so in the cell reference be true. So what we have to identify that He too is not more than 35 then it has to listen. The river is fail if it is more than 35 But what I'm trying to say who all I have failed in maths. So what I'll do is not more once I do that I'll get wherever now get our result is true. So for example a drag it here wherever I can see true which are failed result. So this one G is code 32 and that's the reason for E. It is showing true because they have only scored 30 that means it has failed and because they have scored So wherever you can see true, So similarly if I wanted to add how can I do it so I can do if starting What is my logical test that whoever is not scored So what I am going to do that means who has if I should be fail, so I'll put fail as if true and value if false will be in case if So if I am using it this is how it would look moving which is as or function. There's our function checks condition is met so if there are two conditions only if no conditions are met that means condition or more than one so our function returns false. That means if I put a condition if condition A and B, both are met then those or function will give if none of them are met neither it will give a false only one or b then it will give So let's see how we can do that. I want to buy a new computer and I have two Ends that I have to consider the size of the hardware and the ram if the hard drive has So the first condition is high drive 500 MB is The second condition is it has to be greater Just remember this is 500 It is more than 60 B. It cannot be 6 GB. So how do I do sore? So I go to the door where I need this information. So I need to identify which So the first thing that I'll do is sort of which is an f 2 is greater Why do I say this? Because I need to identify Then I can buy that or is not fulfilled is What is our the condition if she too which is and there is no equal to V coz Three say that it is equal to then it when the ram is 6 but we don't want six it So I press enter That means these are because one of the This is how we are You can use them with the IF function similar you or in a not function. You can also use like and and or with how to do an IF function. Let's see an example on my sheet say I have to calculate or Commission of the employees or the commission Now our mission of the employees is decided by that we are only paying in the sales department as So only to the sales department. Employees. So how do I write I can think I have to select B to because my department in the B column. So b 2 is for the first if P2 is equal to sales. If it is sales, then I have to give if true if value if false I will put 0 because there is no condition that if only sales department is getting 10,000 others so I can leave it as 0 it will automatically throw So this is how we are IF function Works moving on and or an or function the not function with then if we can use the IF function with we are looking You can see that I have the scores in math So what I'll do is I need Bost how do I know if the student has here the reconditioned if the student has scored 35 their final result or the result will be fake. So if they have cord 35 or more that means both Otherwise, they are failed. So what I have to do is I because I need to ensure that they have scored 35 in math and they have scored So I start with an IF because I have a True Result that I have to give that I have to give H is if this is true give me so I can only do that in IF function now when I had one logical test, I put it as department but now I have two logical test. So I'll have to use a if what is I have to check if the math score for student and the science code for student a is more than 35 so Potent n b 2 is more than or equal that c 2 is more So both of them once it is Wilfred which is The Logical test. So I have to close the bracket once I complete that you will see to the IF function. I have to put a comma to get to the next element What is the next What should be the value in case it should be passed. So I put bars and the inverted in the inverted commas. Now close the bracket enter. Now when I drag this formula down it will give me the result So if you see for students in match Which is while they have scored However, we are looking at both of them to be It is giving the failed and e g moving on What is the question if the student has passed which is 80 or higher. So we have a certification test for the students that if they have in the passing marks or has passed the preppies, which is your next which is the passing marks They can register So what is their question that if they have either scored 80 or they have scored 70 they can go for or they can register So here again, I have the condition where I and a false values and hence. I'm going to use the IF function and then it is the there are that I have to look and the prep course, both of them will start because I have to see or if this is 70 or more. So I start with the first one if certification is greater than It is equal to 80 or the next one is prep course to 70 close the bracket. Now you logical test is complete What if this is true so I can click I will enter or cannot register or I can say yes or no if you see the heading so I can just put So I'll put yes comma no, it's an easier way to just put you're looking for you that close the you can drag the formula whether the student has scored So now if you see it has neither scored 80 nor has it scored 70 or more in the prep tail course and those does it if you see student J. It has not scored nor has it scored more than 70 and that's the reason again. They have data showing know. You look at one more example. If you see this one student more than 80 in certification. However, they have scored That's the reason the result is. Yes. So this is how you can use or other if and and if not together now which is the if error function when working in Excel, sometimes we will experience and a hash value You must have definitely when you're working We will look at how to use if error function with this errors constructively. Let's see an example What is happening is we have of columns of numerator Then we have a column that contains the result by the denominator. There are some zeros like this this this so because of this it That is the hash div / 0 - error for these rows in the result column we and make Excel place a 0 in those rows to replace of a cleaner look but it should not interfere with the calculation We will use the So how do we do that? So I will start by typing that I have already put So instead of doing that I will first do an iferror and I'll show you Now? if you see the syntax that says value value that means which value whether there is a error. So I'm thinking looking if error if it is an error, what should the value B in case I need a 0 so then if I drag the formula, you will see wherever It will automatically now it is giving me a different if I want to do it How do I do that? Then wherever my formula is after the equal So after equal to I'm going inside the bracket where the value is I for which I am looking It is a 2 divided by B to numerator divided by if true I'll have to put that I have mentioned here. I have put a inverted comma I in case of numbers so here when I put a 0 and drag that wherever there It has automatically given because now I have got special your we have so you will see for each one of them wherever So moving on to the next one, which is the if any error a value user specifies whether the function encounters the function Returns, the cell value is similar So one of the shortcomings that it acts as So even if it is a div error n a value reference it that it covers several errors and the consequences if error isn't really helpful between the different and sometimes may hide that you would like to fix if an IF function and handle only any errors especially those that perform We look up a trick of Exeter than a function which means other errors the formula will still display so in we look up when the data is so you'll get a error if you are getting thinner so if you're getting then you will have which will tell you If you're going to be there if error that means there is That means the data is there if the data is there or not, but the referencing error a right reference and that's the reason So to ensure that I don't hide I only highlight the any error if any function how do I use the if any function I start in the another that in the current I've done a vlookup from this table. We will do we look up how does the vlookup function with the field wake up function. I have been able to derive data where I can see that this data is not available. The table, so that if the answer is n a what answer is keep me up blank data or give Like I said, it's a free text in the inverted commas. Once you have that you'll be able though rate available. Now, I can just drag So for each one of them wherever will give me the result is Now, how do I copy or the same formula similar to if error I'm going if n a open the bracket in the values comma y value if any what do I need? No data available close the bracket enter wherever It will automatically give me the rest of them wherever If an error will give me if there is an error it and replace it with let's move Want So how does the nested Nested-if is not In fact, it is When you have multiple the false value in if is being to make a further test, for example, let's look So when I'm starting any function will have a value if true ice put a comma false starts I start This is what it means. So moving on to our list of employees in column A which we already have here in column B and the bonus amount we pay based on the condition So to the sales department of 10,000 for the Edmond bear for marketing 8,000 RND 4000. And for others. It is 3000. So looking at the nested to do say the bonus. That I have to identify how do I identify bonus? So first and foremost if I look at this I start because I know that the IF function Works So I'm going to sew So I start with an F if why I'm using a face because I know that the IF function has the true I have to see if the sales is true if it is not true then have So the first and foremost that I'm going to do if this cell contains sales if it contains Hills So let me put it in the first place I have to give 10,000. So this is my first I'm putting a bucket also here so I know what This is my bucket 1 contains sales bucket which I am going to give marketing the marketing. I have to remember that as well. A little different from So 8,000 then pocket that bonuses 4,000 bucket Now what is others the ones which are not falling So looking at this data you How are we going that we have here? So this is my list to start I have to start But in this case I with is equal to F function IF function The Logical test that I have to look if the department is equal I will look for department And there are other Raymond is sitting in be too so to what am I looking for sales? So b 2 is equal to 0 so either I can I can select this cell which says sales in the double quotes as So as of now, I am going to select So I say that if V2 is equal to sales then give What should it give me It should give me 10,000. So again, I can either put this H to a z column because the 10,000 but remember if you see or if you edit anything the result will also to the next one so value if true I know the value if the value if false I know if it is sales I if it is not sales then that please look What is our the condition That is my second condition So b 2 is equal to admin What if it is admin So it is true. What if it is false again a B2 is equal to marketing. Now. I have to remember because marketing spelling your is different from what I'll have to do in the inverted commas which I am typing in the double So you can put it as doesn't matter now again 8,000 because there is no swelling I start with an if y if because this time I have is equal to RN D comma if it is an R&amp;D give if it is not R&amp;D. Just remember now again, putting a if will not work because if I put to say which other So what are the Department's and marketing and R&amp;D. There are personal There is financed. This is all the CCD is there so all these departments So are we going to put Each one if this given three thousand Am I going to put three thousand that in one go? I am able to I don't have to give all I can give 3,000 that if none of the conditions if false will be 3,000. So why am I getting this error? Because I had to put brackets So one bracket that it is the bracket is IF function second bracket. I put it is for the second I put for the third function I put for the fourth a function. Now, when I press enter it that wherever there is data, which is closer to the we are looking for it if you see on the result here, the result is showing a 3000 but if you see so it should ideally Why is it giving an error? What I have done is I have given the cell. References when I'm giving I have to ensure that it is It is not case-sensitive So what has gone wrong in this if I go and check that the Edmond is without any space at all it says admin but if I could I'll see that the admin So when I remove the space, However, that's the reason that you should rather than It is better to use So this was one way of doing it, but after your cell you cannot drag it directly. You will have to actually see which cell references Like you'll have to freeze g2y because G2 will So let's do one thing rather than making Let's do another cell and try and do it with the names So first we have done it we will do it how do I do if Open Bracket logical test now we are doing it So The Logical test to Sales even easier to drive or give me value false again. I'll have to start with if what to Edmund this time. If it is admin, I have to get 5,000 We will put the if p 3 is equal to marketing again marketing we will put if true what do we need? If it is the value of true many So I'll put 8,000 you, what is the next one to R ND then give The last one that I have we did So I've not given I will immediately just taken You will see you are getting all zero zeros You can get a better result wherever there is admit it It will give you 8,000. Let's copy the result so that the formula so it is always advisable that It becomes more constants. So you don't have to keep which are the cell references. This is how you do Let's move on to the next one. The next on our list What are those takes functions that we can see is Let's move onto our list. The lower function will convert Like any text that you have in a Cell you can use this lower function in example is equal to lower open the bracket I close the bracket. You will see that the Rajah or lowercase earlier. It was our was Capital but this time it when you're doing an uppercase where you can use the upper and all the characters or all It will convert You will see that I have been into all uppercase similarly. The third one which we have on the list is like lower and proper in a similar fashion. The difference is that proper function converts while changing the rest So, how do we do this CRV So let's use that we have you and then select the one in the upper column enter or the first alphabet is upper and the restaurant This is how we are upper lower and the proper The next function that will have is the left function left of characters from the left side So if I say a is equal to left and select the text from which and then comma I can give that I need to extract So I select say three once I select three it will give from the left. This is how your left similar to the left function. We have the right function. So a is equal to right. I select the same name. I give three characters from the right it because it is taking This is how we are moving on to the next one. What is the next function We have mid function in the list in a similar fashion as It will not extract data will extract characters or data where you are required to provide a certain position of characters from So for example is equal the text say this time because it's a bigger character. I have to tell So it will not decide on its own You will have to give a data wet So I need to start say so I can give three Number and now the number of characters from So when I say from the third it's ymo say three characters. I want from the third character. So I will get the answer It is third character is RA Y and Y MO is the three characters This is how your mid The next one is Len function provides the length for example to identify in the first name. I will enter is equal to length and then I will select and close the bracket enter. I'll get the number of characters in This is how we are If you drag all these formulas, you will get the data to the next function exact function compares to text and returns true if they are same and false Let's see. How does that work? Say, I have the data like apple and I have small letter Apple. I have apple all capital So it's like different cases that I have it in only the same it will give So I just put exact open 2 I close the bracket enter. It will give me true because both are and the apple apple both in both the cell and even the cases are if I go and try the exact and B2 close the Enter give why false result that I've entered the character that is entered like we have So it is like first character or the first letter is But in the B2, if I try and copy the formula It will give me a false while all small in B 3. So this is the exact function to the next one that we have on our list is What is an RN in between truncation Returns between the specified values. So it will just give between the values. For example, I give 20 and I give hundred and I use our I have to give two numbers and the top number so bottom while the top number will be it will give me a number. Every time I refresh the sheet like I go and calculate different numbers every time So it is a random number that will pick and give you this in between functions work moving on to the next one is You can create name or cells on the worksheet after you define the Excel names and formula instead of of the cell reference. Let's see how you can name and how you to use them in a formulas to make Let's see our vlookup formula I can name the table which in our case is to the name box. Not necessary. I can only eat select I can select even I can select only one cell and give the name here This is called as a name box as Matt which is name given. Inside the data I that this cell name becomes Matt if I want to give the name like this full range. I can say Student's name I cannot give so I can put students and then named after what happens is it of those range of cells This is how I have given Now, how do I modify any that I have given already? If you go to formulas you will see something If you click you will see all or all the list of ranges where the names have For example, I which you can see now that I have just done which is students named and then change or modify the named range to I can change the name. Also if I have to by clicking that I can see on the wizard once I click on that name I will be able of that particular range. Then the next one that I can see on the list is which I want to give the name and I can give it So this is how I if I have to you If you don't want on delete click OK same thing. We had given which is the mat. I can also select that delete This is how you can modify or delete or add or a column moving on that we have on our list are the lookup functions The first function that we are going to see the most well-known. Excel function vlookup that is designed that is organized that we have here for a specified value. The function finds the value and Returns the corresponding three conditions to be filter for we look up to work one. There should be a common data which can be looked the corresponding data example, if you see your I have and I need to know their marks that they have scored in the subject maths that I have your I can see and they are marks that I have the studio. Now, what I need to do the marks of the student So the first condition that has needs to be fulfilled that There should be which can be looked upon to So what is that? We can look upon the name name Yo Bobby 0 Bob is you so that's the common what is the second condition? The common data is identified So it Bob should not be if it is twice in the table, then it will only pick up and the second Bob will be So we have to ensure It is always unique data that you need to derive on the right side in the database from where you want to derive So it should always be That means the data This is the data that you This part should always be of the data that So you looking for Bob and your max max So this is also So how do we start to do to get our result? I do an equal to V lookup open. Racket I have to look for Bob. So I select mom in which table which column index number. So this is the first because I'm looking for the Bob I have to get the answer which is marks in math. So 2 comma 0 close get the result as 88 now, even if I change the name here I'll still get a the result as already entered you. This is how we are vlookup to the next one is similar to vlookup a horizontal look a vertical lookup White Edge up the Syntax for hlookup However at look up with looking the third argument and H So with another example where I have a similar data shown in the first row, they are marks are shown in I have to fetch for the student's name The similar way I have to do like we're doing we look because we have to look But this time you in the horizontal So what I will do Look up finds T comma in what I am Steve what I have to look So 1 2 3 and 4. So 4 comma 0 now when I change the name it should still give This is how we are hlookup work to the next one. What do we have on our list under formula auditing the errors first run it traded settings and dependents helped The reference cells used What is the difference and dependents presidents are That affect the active cells value dependents that is affected by active cell. So how does that work? So to see what are in the active cell formula click the trace precedents which other cell to the active cell click Let's see how that works. I'm trying to identify from this data or this result is coming so I click on Trace precedents that means where So it is saying and from this cell if I have to say that dependence on the so I have just seen I want to First remove because I can see the remove so I can just click on remove arrows and all So now I could not see if there is any dependent on Trace dependence and it is telling me on Your cell A9. So this is a difference and the president's now moving on to the next one is What is an error This is Again part of the formula auditing error to identify which cell This can be very useful when you have a big list of data in different parts of the sheet So, for example, let's move onto our sheet where we had the errors if error function I remove if error so that the error Now I know that the editor is there These are all the errors It is very much clear because I can see But if it was a big data where the error comes for I can click and it will tell me So Aaron in cell C3, that is only one error on next to get on which I can see cell C7 Now. in the formula bar so that it doesn't give you the When you click It will tell you by clicking on evaluate. Once you click on evaluate where the error This is how Wonder check error that we have is I can see only the result when I go on to the cell, I will be able to see that I have entered to see I can just click on show formula and all the formulas automatically on the list. So you not see the result that I have entered This is how your shape next to column allows you to another effectively into the two separate spaces of One XL send in You can use that Let's look at your sheet where I have an example example of the employee is given I want to split them So how do I split them? So I want to split them in such in a but to these first name moves to the B column I have to use the text to column to identify the separator We can see that the first and the last name is separated is a comma however in Excel terms this separator So how to perform the text using the still limited. I will select the whole data where I need to separate to data under data and seat X2 column click on that up under the text I'll see something which is our separator. I have to enter the separator I will remove the tab, which is a default value by separator and then As soon as I do in the further name will move So you saw that one way to do because we had a delimiter or a separator if you do not have a separator you know that you have a data that can be split where we have a fixed width we can use another set of Formation on the text the fixed with information we have this dates I want to separate the Year from the date like the first so I want to separate and one column in one cell and the year should move within the next window. I will see the ruler on the top. I'll can move the ruler and selecting a ruler Once I do that now, I only need the date or the ER So I separate between or put and the previous information It will automatically move This is how your text Let's move on to our next that we have is What is data validation in Excel used to control what a user can enter into the cell and simply display what is Out data that allows you to perform of entries that restricts like I'll have So when I am entering any other I will get an error create the kind of data We will see how we can do that. So we are creating a message which tells see user that this kind of data a message that appears So as soon as you entered it will give you that this is an indirect data, please enter a correct one check for incorrect entries so we can do that as well set that can be entered if an entry is valid in another cell. So let's see how the data So I have this which has the first the registration form number who have registered for it, then we can see the code. That the imprudent wish to enroll then you if they are graduate yes or no. Now I have a list of courses that I have mentioned or one of the column that the college offers one is of business management management Bachelor's So student can only select They cannot select any other course other So what I'll do is instead and again, please don't select and give allowing them I would use a data where I go to data and click on data validation I can put list as my data I will select the information which I have in this list on OK you will see that a drop down list Now the student who is entering We'll enter something and then the courses that they wish And roll like they cannot even know they will have that they can see or They will get an error male female or anything that they want to enter Yes or no. So this is a kind of information that they can enter now we have course We just went to data validation and then enter these swords where we had already we also want that what they need that there is another cell here. So this was only done which is cell C2 if I want to copy this data validation so I can just copy that and go to select them to be copied and pasted V. So it will paste the data in all the sense. Next is if you see where I can see is I who have registration form. But still hundred and one This form is to be who have the registration number until 101 if they have they should not be able So, how do I do that? I will first select all that they are going to enter the I go again to the data validation I'll not select list. When do I select list is when I have the source I don't have a source. They can enter any number any number they cannot select and anything beyond 101. So what I'll do is I'll give So first I'll select between why between because I don't want them to put So what I'll do is between that they can enter So as soon as I enter and click on ok, now if I enter any data or if I put data Beyond 101. I'll again get an error. Now. How do I ensure that what numbers if they put to that is okay So I have to tell students if you have a registration form what I can do in again there is something called as in the settings you between and the numbers called as input message in You can input a message for the user who's going So here in our case So I will enter or registration number till 101. So here I am saying the I can also put an input message. This was the title that I'm saying or I can just And then I would say Enter numbers between one 201 if your registration number or number is beyond 101. So this is how you if you realize that I have made I can go back put in Ok. that as soon as I it will automatically give me that message as soon as I go However, I'm not selected So what I can do is I can go or I can just copy the data So what will happen is now? As soon as I go it will automatically give Next is I can do is that I can only enter 101 I have already in put Another thing that I can do on what should be the error message So if I put anything like 1 0 2 this is that you get Microsoft Excel with the data validation for this cell It is a default message that comes for any error so we can enter a message that what error they have made in the style you can keep are stopping the user to enter You can say error and then error messages or not wanting you And then in the error message data between 12101. Okay. This is how you can do it. So what happens is now and enter 102 C please enter the number can customize the error message. Also on the data This is how you can create and make it as Let's move on to the next We can do one more data We need to ensure that no entry that we are seeing your if anybody is going to put the should not be able to put any duplicate registration Let me go to a new sheet. Let's say I have They are named Department. I want to tell the employees that please enter and the department However, I need to ensure that no employee enters in the employee grade column because every employee should They may not do it purposely but it may happen They would enter That could be a duplication That is somebody that I can use the data I'll select the column where I wanted application on data validation under I will use a formula what formula depending on what I can always use a formula so to identify I can use a countif function. So when I use a counter how many times a particular data So what I do is I can select is meta so I want to understand how many times the meta see there are two methods so it will give me this counter method how so I will collect the counter these employee code on a data validation. I will select custom I'm going to put the formula and to bracket. What do I need now? I need to identify if these range contains So I select a to a comma So what I am going I know that countif counts Now, I want to ensure The data should only occur once so what I'll do I can see or I can say is less so it can be one time but it cannot be more than 1 so what I can see it has so that means what will happen is to 1 so 1 less than if this answer to this That means the data is not occurred as that means one time that employee code has been But if it is more one time, So I click on ok. Now when I enter the data go under data validation I'm going to put a formula how to use the count. If so select all column comma because we are starting so I will have to give as the one D cell is less once I do this I click on. Ok. Now if I enter the information so you can see that I have already entered 12345 is an employee code If I put again one two, It will give me an error. Now, you know that you can customize Also. This is how your custom and you can add more which we just learned your requirement moving on our list is the what if tools so what if analysis this sits in the Excel ribbon your so there are three options under what if analysis Another one is data tables and a third one So how does these So let's start first start with the gold seek function goal that allows you to see how one data item is Impacts another you a cause-and-effect scenarios. It's useful to answer because you can adjust the result a tool is you and forecasting scenarios, but there are other uses. Let's look at a simple example, the current model contains of units 500 The retail price of the unit that we are giving on this or we have already given and the revenue we have I calculate Revenue by deducting or removing a new sale which is 25 minus 10% of $25. And then I have multiplied So the total revenue it comes goal seek function. I need to identify how many units have to be sold So our goal is what $20,000 how many so my sale price Remains the Same. I want to understand that. How can I achieve a 20,000 goal how many units I'll that SN I go to goal seek. There are three values that I will have to enter that means which cell I need to because they're I have that means what value I need what which sell any I need to change. I need to change So I'll select the number so it will calculate me the number of units that needs to be celebrated So this is how you can use Now. Let's see another example that I have on my list. So I have data for the gross profit or rather. I would say the revenue that Out of Revenue. This is the percentage of Tiwari other calls that is there or this are that we have learned The net profit that we learned is So every time out of I have taken 10 percent as a net I got 15 percent as I got 12 percent for we do not know. What is the gross for has not yet occurred. So we are not sure what it is going to be This one is also of the gross sale percentage this time we have decided what I did is I'll have that I get 15% of this value. How could I do that is equal to this multiplied by this this this or this will be the profit value I have entered a net It for the year that I have How did I get that by adding? All the four quarters I still don't have what I have added all the answer is 38 500 I have to find out what is the fourth to reach the goal So my conditioner I which I can see that is a it for them So my cell will be 50,000. So I go to goal seek my set cell What should I set it what I need to change the gross I have to change and depending on the gross sale. The percentage of Here we go. This is how your goal The next we will see now of entering the formulas and variables individually We can set up a data table with 102 variables data tables what-if analysis features. Let's see. How does it rate up tables work? I have the list. Of sale price is similar data We have the sale price Then I have the quantity that I have sold but there is also a discount which is 10% I've given that I have Now I have to understand that. What is the question in the discount So as of now my total revenue would be I have What is my total revenue So how will I do I can multiply but if you see there is So what I do is I'll have to - my sale price from the discount We all remember So we will have to use My number of quantity This is the revenue that I want to identify if I What will be my Revenue What so instead of going and doing I can just select of discount for each one I would rather go to the what- if analysis and do When I click on data tables. The first thing whether you want a row What is the difference you're at is the column it so we will have to select what is changing our discount for the discount so I'll have However, before we get into this where I need the result. If I don't select the data, It just doesn't understand So I'll have to first select I Duke data tables I'll have to select because I'm getting the answers because my percentage of discount is changing from here always from your base data. Click. that this is a car mount that I'm going We have another example here where I have the list of data I have quantity discount to find the total profit and a sale price changes as given in the table. So what I'm saying of discount changes from and more along with that if I also change my price how am I going to work on that or how am I as what is the profit So what I did was I have to gain put What is my profit first time identifying minus this into 10% this this so this is the first how we get the sale price 1500 which is the cost price this if to put because it is very important that we know where or other than putting fifteen - fifteen hundred help close the bracket into 25. This is a profit that I on in case or the sale price I'm trying to understand my discount percentage So what happens is when you go you see a big discounts given like 30% 40% 50% but do they They cannot give you discount of 40% Without changing because if they do that, they will not be able on the cover the expenses So what they do is they increase and then give you 50% So how do they identify by using So I have selected I I have selected I click on data tables. Now this time I have What are my row input cell row and my column input cell or you get the result of and a discount of 10% This This is how you can use in order to get the result which is a I have an example or other. Let's see actually what does a scenario manager do your scenario manager of values or scenarios So that means you have if you have decided on something like I need a 10 percent but if you want to see that how much profit if you get 20% of interest that he was an empress when you want you how you can do that. So let's go ahead where there we have you will see that I have that assume you have a bookstore and have hundred bucks You sell a certain percentage and the certain percentage So you've decided maybe for a higher price of $60 the remaining you'll sell it for $20 what I'll have to do is The number of books have entered your already Then that person is sold and six seventy percent. I can also put 60% that I have to do is I'll have We're in I'm saying that I have sold at a higher that I have sold And what is the unit price so I have started putting it that the number of books at a higher price is that are sold at a lower price is 40 why because I'm saying I have so little higher price. So rather than putting 60 her I So how do I do that by entering a formula multiplied by the number of which is 60% So that comes to 60 the remaining will be So what I do is is equal which is e total box the highest price books, which is this What is the higher price value which is $50 and the $20 You know, what is the total out of by doing this selling in the lower price, so I'll have to put So I start with 60 books plus 40 books at $20 and this is my total profit that I'm learning Now. What if I decide that now I'm selling the 60% But later on I decided if I increase the percentage of the books that I sell to 70% or 80% or 90% like or what is the profit that I am going to learn? What I'll do is I can use is I go to sort of analysis There is an option so I can click Once I click on ADD. It will ask me So let's put the scenario name are leaving it is 60% for now. What are we going What is that is going of the books sold which is in B 4. Okay, so I click on ok now Enter a value for each what will be the value which is in the before so before has a percentage The value is 0.6 0.6 because so if you do 60 divided That's the reason I'm putting Okay. And then this is but we also already Let's put the data and then again before I click on OK this time. I'll have to put 0.7. Click on OK again. I add one more why because I have more percentages click on OK it is 0.8. I have three scenarios. Let me add one more which Now that I have come here. What I can do is now I can check There is a formula select which one I want to check if I've said 70% what will be the answer that I get for that I can just select the 70% data that the data is now changed and highest price at high prices 70 and the total If I do to 90 and click on show it will show me This is how your data will work If I do a summary click OK and in the worksheet, you will see the current value which you can see it is now 90% And so it is showing that but it will also show that we had decided. It is 60 70 80 90. You can actually and you can get this data where you can see the data So you can now decide if it is 80% or 90% their books at this is how we Let's move on and see We have already and the data table saw is on an Excel sheet. If you have a duplicate value for example, let's go that I can see here. There is a way to and that is one way We have already seen how to highlight duplicates. We select the whole and then click All the duplicate values Now. This was only to I want to remove the duplicate. I can click on data under data I can see remove duplicates. I can click It will select the whole table You can either select and select only the ones which you want to remove select the whole table, it will check if both the data is in the first scenario, which is a 2 As meta ends A7 has meta as both are duplicate. However, if you see it is radhika. Second one has the Hara. So if you select both like say I go I select both the cells which was these two lists. It will check if both the data is same that means metal Medica America only then it will delete Not same it will not delete. So if you want to delete on the data in column A then you will only and click on OK, it will remove the duplicates that all the duplicates It will remove the duplicates value as well. This is how you remove Now, there are some demos that you can go or practice data What is data sanitization you Good look better and even work that your data looks better and you are able to get So the first thing that we are going to see a sorting any data that you have in the list per your requirement. So for example, if you ever go every department has like the grocery department will have all the grocery and but out of that in one section vegetables will be in one section truth Similarly Excel also when you do the sort it will divide itself depending on So one group will come together. For example, if I click on sort for this data for the employee at where each one of them sit. So you will see that a is will come together and D's will come They Resorted to see that we have on our list of the employees names and they are region that is been given in the list. I have this list here First name last name Department per the region I can go and then I can select Which data I want to sort it I say region and it was at that means So I click on OK it So all these two will be together all the north Then your vest then your South. This is how your data will Next is in the list How does the filter work? So you will see the data you must have seen that in the data you When you click on filter be applied There is a kind of a drop can select the data So for example, if I'm looking To get only the data for the particular to filter the data is so I can go to department or type sales in the box, which is given to me this way. You will be able Now if I want the data for sales and finance I can again and click on ADD to the filter and click. OK this way. I will also get the data Other than that, there are other things that you can do with the filter called as a custom filter When you click on any that you can see We will see something called as You have the custom when you have if you want to have data than equal to less than which is more useful So let's go to the salary column and try than say I want to know I want to Employee names as So for example, I need to know all the employees salary more than 10,000. So I select is greater who's less than 20,000 I would enter 20,000. So I have selected two different because I'm looking and the next one is So I think it should be but it should be I click on OK only that contains more and less than 20,000 will be displayed in this list This is how your data Let's move on to the next which extends beyond the cell For example, I had an example So I have a scenario manager I have entered some data If I enter some data you can see that the data Why because the cell Beyond the length of the cell So how do you ensure that you can see this data and under home you'll see under the alignment group. You will see something When as soon as you do webtext, it automatically wraps itself in that same cells makes so that you can see the whole to the next one is What is what cell looking at the same example your but you can see that the data Now this question is applicable If I don't want to show that in one cell I can make different cells together. So that becomes this row and you will be able to see these three cells together. Now what happens is with a smaller row height So that means you have made This is how you can The demo is been given. What is the next one as you're inserting So for example, like we saw how you can insert a comment You can normally insert So yeah, I want to say that so I can just click As soon as I do where I can say and I press anywhere outside. My soon as I go back over that cell it will give me the cell data if I want I can click on edit comment and then make the changes as If I now want to delete and delete the comment. This is how your comments to the next one insert shapes You sometimes will need on your Excel sheet. There are different types under the insert command You will see something called You have this Arrow cross even the block arrows. All this information can be used which you can use so I can just use that you are requiring and then make the changes as You can add comments you So for example, if I'm adding that this is my unit price. I put a call out. I can change the call-out a comment in there. How would I comment and edit text? This is the price of one unit. See this is how you So instead of putting use a call out a new you with the shapes moving on the insert text box You can also insert You will not get any colors That means you and enter your data as So I put a text box here I enter the data it will All and you will be able to see Now, we will move on How does the advanced filter is very important scenario. If it is just like the similar to our custom filter Advanced and it can work with the more that you have on the cell I have the employee code last name Department region with the salary information. First thing that I have to do to create a criteria range. That means I have to create when I created a creditable I My first criteria is department. So I copy the department heading you're my second So I select the branch with the advanced filter. So I have to create the table I have to copy the heading once I have selected what is the criteria. Just ensure that Otherwise, it will give Now I go to data under the filter sort There is something called I can select two as the filter the list in place. That means when you filter in this table itself. Another option is to copy First thing I'll do is copy once I do that then it that means which data My data needs to be filtered is a 1/2 H 101 which Now. Next one I have to enter I told you that I have to create a table because I have to enter so to enter the right arrange and select the criteria table Now, I have to tell Excel because I said that I want I'll have to tell I need this data So I will select the cell where I want this data which is or all the rows which fulfills these A studio similarly. I have another example here What is my condition? I have to see first the list of employees So what is my first thing that I So again, I'll copy the What is the requirement So I will say m KT G. That is what do I have have is the South Region. So my region is So I select region and the criteria is what that I can see is I have salary between fifteen and twenty five to ten thousand. So first thing that I have to enter is because it is easier to copy it if there is it will not give when I copy and paste it that I have to put which is very clear more than 15,000 but it just like we did it we have to put both but I cannot put it So I have to put another cell when in that cell Similarly. I have another request that this we more than 5,000 the other conditions So again, I'll say marketing. I'll say south and this Now, I can go back I select those Phil range copy the criteria range as where I want to paste it, I'll paste it in another cell which is say this set that is fulfilling. This condition will This is how we are We are going to start The first one What is the average an inbuilt function in Excel that is categorized with statistical function what it says and works similar to some it will return of the given series Let's say we need to identify paid to the employees Whereas our salary data So what I'll do is I'll enter by the Open Bracket in the cell. We need the result in our case. It is J2. So I start with an equal open the bracket now, I'll have to select the range of sin for which and in our case it which is H to H and press enter I get the This is the average amount in the organization. The next function in our list is the median again a statistical function which Returns the median what is median it in the set of numbers. That means if I have so there are three numbers that I have I have from this so is equal to I'll use the median function What is the middle number and that are has numbers close me the middle number It is not the highest but the middle if I want to know in the salary column. I'll use the median function to median open the bracket which has h2h close the bracket and enter 15 thousand seven of the salary column. Next we're going to see the Excel mode function frequently occurring numbers in the numeric data set this function only It will identify that occurs maximum time So for example, here we have the basic salary number is 49 thousand Employees ordering but I want to identify which salary is been earned so I can use the mode function as equal It is only mode select And then select h2h column because I want to know The bracket 17,500 is the amount that occurs maximum time to the next one is What is the standard deviation? It's a formula is to identify the standard of numbers the standard the standard deviation in this sample set of data of how much variance there is in a set of numbers of the numbers standard is meant to estimate If the data represents the standard deviation So we will look at our standard I have a sample data. So sample of few students Whoo. I've scored a particular number or a particular marks So we have taken a sample and we have not picked So if we are using it for a sample only we will use which is standard deviation dot based on the sample and text in the sample. So it has to be only numbers. Okay. when you have a sample data how much variance is there as compared to the average you will use three but if you have a full if you have all the marks in the school or the college, you will have to use which is also certain division weight given as an argument. But your we are using for a sample data. So I select that and then for which I I'll just go and select I close the bracket. I press enter it is giving which is a standard So this is how your standard that we are going when we are going through. Our function list is What does a large function the nth largest value if I go back to my data where I have the salary data I have to identify. What is the highest salary that I'm paying I can do it but it can be that as of now. I have sorted this data, but later on this person has moved to a different Desai has left and Russia Trivedi has moved of directors list. Not only Asha we Fried butter to move So now we have but both their salaries will be will change the board of director salary and or a schwa Trivedi. It is about 60,000. So this is the salaries that we have decided which are two Now in this case if I have to see what was the largest value without changing the two values that I had now so is equal I'll select the array and K when I see what does the K mean which highest number that means if I want to know or the first largest value from the list I can put if I don't want to know I want to know the second to the employee I will Is that were to close If you see the our largest value However, the answer Why because we are looking in the range of cells. If I am looking I will put it as 5 and press enter it will give in the set of cells which is twenty two thousand like in our example where I mentioned that ashram very is now moving Let's not remove were Now, she still there We also move are three very and this time the board that I'm moving to a 60,000. So when I say the board when I move this that which is the first largest will be 60,000. The second largest salary will Five because now there is the first larger salary which is 60,000 earlier. It was 49,000 was if you keep on changing say I make it to 65,000 just If you will see that earlier. It was forty nine Now the 60,000 has become or the second largest salary am trying to identify. What is the smallest salary that I am paying that I'm paying I have to give the K value Like I said, it will be the value that you want. Is it the first smallest that you want to know is that you want to know that you want to know is that you want to do. So according to what You can put the number there so it will give me paid to the employees if I make the lowest salary So let's see. What is our lowest salary. It is 5950. Let's make one of them to 5500 if I go back and see it is now 5950 because the first So depending on which is your lowest salary it and give you that number. So moving on which is our Coral. What is coral or it is the correlation you can see we in Excel to find the correlation coefficient I'm sure we have all learned in our College days when we were doing if you had opted you would have done However, if Not done it, The Excel is already correlation coefficient formula how strong our relationship is like you're in our case and the relation between the glucose level that the age increases on the that the HD creases in the glucose level that the age increases and vice versa? So depending we are what is the relationship formula between minus 1 and 1. What is the relation ship of minus 1 and 1 why is it on a man? And how is it if your relationship is one I would say 021 it relationship a correlation that for every positive increase There is a positive increase of a fixed proportion true sizes go up in perfect correlation So when your foot length increases, so it's That is when you're It is exactly how much your foot sizes increases if the correlation it indicates a strong or correlation coefficient that for every positive that is a negative decrees of the fixed proportion For example, the amount of gas in the tank decreases with the speed every time in the tank decreases So when you running the car if you're increasing on decreasing why because so The gas is getting used and that's the reason but your speed is increasing. So there is an opposite but your speed increases that's have your coefficient if in case of minus 1 if the result is 0 it at all zero means There isn't a positive to just aren't related anything where there is that means with the increase the while with minus 1. It is the opposite side with one increase that's the three differences Of course, you will not get or 0 it will be in between if it is between 0 to 1 if it is between minus 1 to 0, then it is negative 1 then it is no relation at all. So You've an example in a sheet where I have the age considered and then I have the glucose as considered as why we What is the relationship and the glucose level So if you see the human age 43 the glucose level goes to but does it make sense Because we can't identify. What is the relationship is so to identify that I can use a function which is coral where I need this result. So is equal to Coral and then I will select the different arrays for which So first relation that I have to identify At age against glucose level. So the age is sitting So I'll select that as the first array So I select that secondary which is e 2 2 Z 7 and close It is giving me a value is 0.53 with I remove the more So our answer is zero point That means there is between the age when it is positive. It means that the increase in age does increase If this was a negative point, then it would have around that increase in age. It reduces the glucose So this is how your Let's see another example which is a correlation function. We have the price or the They change and then we also have or the percentage The S&amp;P 500 is that tracks the stocks It represents the stock market the risk and returns So what are we doing here if there is any relationship and the stock a change. So if there is a relationship a proper decision in the future when they are making So to start with I am going So I will do is equal to Coral open the bracket which is true with arrays. So I'll select the first which is C5 true c24 comma D Phi 2 D 24 Close you will see so it is 0.89 or rather 0.9. This means that every time in the S&amp;P 500. Then there is one percent a prices same similarly if there is a decrease accordingly the stock prices That's how the while in the previous example, That means when there in the H point five percent of so that's how the correlation the coral function in Ms. Excel. Next. We are going to see what our charts when you want to graphically is very difficult that contains a lot you to illustrate which makes it easy to visualize comparisons entrance Excel has of charts allowing that best fits your data in You will need to understand So we will start So you'll see all So to start we will go back where I have the sheet that means there is a data that is already available where I have the data or the other the sales data which is split which is 2016 and 2017. This data is in millions. So you can see that the Mumbai has done a sales while it has done the sale in 17 same goes with London. It has done 55 million They have done 65 million USA. You can see 45 million while if you see that the sales have reduced from 2016 to 70 yard So you are able to even identify And how is it related? How is the comparison done? So instead of doing that if you want to send you can just select this data that will show exact comparison on your screen and it So, how do I do that? I'm going to go There is a new option which is called as that means whenever and then click on insert. It will give you an option where the Excel will recommend that will look good of data or rather. It will properly which you are looking at. So I select the data that I want the graph to recommended charts you will see that it is recommending is This is your column chart but as we are now seeing with or each type of chart. We will start with and then we'll come back So you'll see the first your even in the icon that you can see is click on that and if the data is coming next one really useful the column chart where there is so column charts use they can work with many but they are most frequently like in our case 2016 and 17. So I have got And it is comparing and 17 now looking It looks very nice. However, you will see in when I'm looking If I don't see this table, What does the real sale I'll have to Mouse when I Mouse over it. It says series 2016 .1 by value 65 gives However, if I am just I will not be able to see and just shows which one is I can see that in 2017. They have done less sail as compared to 2016 So for exact number what I can do is that is I can go and look at it by doing a mouse that is to just see it I How do I add a data label? The different ways to add That is first select the data label say I want and 17 both the bars so I cannot do it together. So what I can do is I by using the left click and then right click and then click Once I do that it will add Secondly, I can do it However, there is If I now want to so I'll just select and click and it will work now I do I want to add it using this when I select the chart. There is an option as + I click on data labels. It will automatically add I don't have to select This is how we data if you can see which is given Which has some numbers why because earlier we And that's the reason we where our basis it's so between 60 and 70. So I assume that it is 65. So that is how it that I have the data labels, I will not need this information on the left hand side. So, how do I remove that excess that you can see that there are again one way to the design mode which is after you collect the chart under add chart element. I will see X's that we used to call another one vertical axis is the vertical which is on the left hand side that we were just talking This is your primary vertical So I have want to remove both are Lighted I want to remove that it just goes away. That's one way or the quickest way to do that is just select that only the excessive that for small that comes on the four corners that I can press delete deall and it will go away third thing that I can see on this chart I have to add a title to this chart is already I just have to add the title. I select the data there and add or sales for two years and in so that they don't get confused at why is it showing is So this is how I can show that I would recommend This grid lines. The grid lines when you don't have because then it gives You with Y axis you'll be able when I don't have I don't need So I'll just select on delete on my keyboard. That's one way another way to do that is just go and press the grid line grid if you see the data, it looks even more cleaner or it because there is It's all clean. This is how you per your requirement. This is how your but you can do the same thing There are other quick things that you can do also changing the chart type if you want to that you have selected so in order to get this chart. However, I want so I can click on that design under data select data. Once I click on the select data To change the data range on this data range to change that you will see your is so what happens is as of now my y-axis only and the x-axis contain and everything and the data which is the colors that is 2016 and 17, which is the e or is showing Now when I click what will happen which is there will become or different bars while your 2016 and 17 Let's see how that happens by just clicking on once I do that and click that 2016 data is showing and all the bars are showing now with the Region's this However, in this case it is If I had the or between the two years you can do What is the sales that you have done for of a comparison can if you see Gujarat has done while again in 2017 Hyderabad So this kind of comparison on what kind of a comparison You can always click can also use this button Otherwise, you can click and then use this information. This is how your charts and how you can add new data how you can format your data under design moving on Our next chart in the list is the line chart line charts like you have in Our list and the temperature that is changing as per So we are trying to say So in USA we have this days if you are trying to see if I start with day one, what was the temperature or is it going down so if I'm trying to identify I can use the line chart because the line chart of a trend on different days. So how do I create a line chart where we have to show the trend that time we are going to show like for example in our sheet. We have the pace from day What is the temperature So we have a trend like in this first date is 43 50 then 438 again goes up Going up 59 and then 60 again. It is 67 video showing a trend I'm going to use the line chart. So I'll use the line chart It is giving me the line how it is going up. So it starts with the day one. It is lower than goes higher higher higher higher owning but it keeps on This is how your So whenever you have where you have to show to use the line chart. What is the next one? The next one is it easy to compare proportioned. Each value is shown So it's easy to see for the percentage of the whole. So for example, I have this book type that is being sold which is the classic mystery romance science The revenue that is generated out of these books for classic It Is $18,500 So on and so forth. I'm trying to identify. What is the total revenue that I have generated me the maximum Revenue while which book type is going been giving me I can use a pie chart because it's going to give like your you will see that the orange part is actually is being sold maximum and the revenue is also like we did it You can also use the data tables How do we use the data tables that to plus sign or just right clicking and selecting the add we'll use the plus sign Once I do that the data labels Now in this case. The numbers are been added. However, I also want The chart title is also already so we can leave it is as it is. If you need to change that you can always double the name of the chart as Or the chart title that we have added. You will see that only I have to check to which in order to see where does the highest number land saved only So that is fine. So if there are and you want to see a little difficult to identify that so what I can do is I of them like a data labels. I can also add the labels How does that look so that by going to the data labels and then click on more data that a new window or a new level has opened up I can select the category name. What will happen is as soon as I It automatically gives me Now the category name you and it is coming if you want to change. Separator you can use any of these as a separator So what will happen is the So it looks a little better where we remove the x Now, we have added the names so I can remove this legends So it looks a little cleaner now I can even make because we have enough space as I have removed the legends So this is how we are pie chart to the next one. The next one is a bar chart bar chart works just but they use a horizontal bars Where is it useful? But it is useful in the data where you have the bigger names Like in this case. Yes, the inbound marketing if I insert the normal column chart like this now So it is just giving you However, if you or even it will look better which is shown in because you can clearly read the headings here And your bar chart goes on the right again adding the data labels to the next one. That is a Surface chart. What does the surface chart and how is it useful when you want to find between two sets of data we have the marketing finance and effort and they or which department these details like recruitment how much you have to recruit which is the financial how much contribution is of Marketing in the effort how much I sets are there in another effort how much is there that has been formed part So if I want to know to combine the recruitment part. I'm not Trying to of marketing finance and effort how much recruitment of all three in this kind I'll be using the surface chart. So, how do I use Where is this located again? If I go to the Mandate chart the surface chart on the recommended charts There is a gap I can select that go to surface your I'll get I click on OK you will be able so it gives you the effort So you will see that the combination which is this part is showing for all the three departments how much environment is affected in effort asset that is been used by and so on and so forth. So how we are adding So this is how it shows you if you want from this list, so that looks a little better and it also gives a number because the 200 only is affected when I say 0 to 200 That's the reason The second one is which is 345 in case of Finance. So that's a bit little bigger. It is showing your orange one. The next one is which is 400 to 600 which is good So this is how your data the surface chart moving So we have learned and how you can make a little bit changes in order that fits into it. You can also use the change chart type option So if you think that a surface chart is can select the chart and click on chart of these recommended This is how we learn Let's move on to the next one What is the pivot table in your day-to-day life that building a pivot and time consuming but it's simply not true would take you to build manually pivot tables If you have well you can create a pivot table So, let's see First of all, I have a sheet with all They're like in our sheet. I have the list So Department region branch I am going to create the different departments salary how much salary are we paying However, before I do that, how to create a pivot table I first we'll go to the database for which I So I go to the database after I click on insert. There is an option called pivot New window will pop up I have to select the table or the range for which the pivot So I select range that I have to select or the existing tree new sheet. That means when I click it will automatically in the existing workbook. And if the pivot table will However, if I click I have to give a new location that means the sheets on the workbook from that sheet, which cell do I need I will click on the location that I need the pivot table of the existing sheet However this time I'm going and click on OK. This will create a new before the Excel sheet that So it is now creating Once the Excel sheet You will see the pivot table or a blank space where it will show you and on the right hand side. You can already see that are shown under all the headings, which were there in the database You like employee code. First name last name Department in the best basic salary. So everything is already before we start We need to understand this on the pivot table. So every field So let's start which was this one. The values area is the large rectangular area below and the row heading and counts data. That means anything that you enter your it of that value. For example, if I pick salary on the values column. It will automatically of the salad you can see that means the total salary that has been paid to any other field. For example, if I click on this and click on value field give other calculations right count average Max Min that I need in this field, I can select I don't want to some I just need to know the count It will give me which has the salaries. So I click on some that you drag and drop that you want to measure Fields of units or average which is this part placing of data field in the row area from that field down the rows on the left side because I said that I want to do it when I drag it to the Rose. It will pick up all So even if admin in our database like admin it will only show Once with CCD to same goes What does that mean? It will group all Then it will some the salary of Edmund the next cell and it will give me so it will giving me for admin then for of Finance marketing Personnel This is how your if you put the data Next is the column area of headings that stretch which is this so if you want to give if you want things like region if I put column what will happen is now it will show me the East-West per the east west north and it is kind of heading that is given and Even this is a total salary. This is how it Next one is the filter column or the filter air filter is drop-down list at the top The filter area contains the pivot table is set to show if I put it on the top here, it is actually an optional area, but it will only show me will not show in the column. The filter area allows you to the pivot table. For example, if I leave my region in the filters column. I can select which branch if I need only for umbrella, I can click on ambala and click for ambala same way. If I select the rest of other data it will give if I want more than one data. I'll just click at is can select to 3 at time 2 and then it will be Give me the rest of the data. This is how your pivot Like I said, you can use these value field calculations to be done This is how your data Now. This was a simple part If you ever want to sort Let me first remove the region So do understanding I'm reviewing the branch I'm just leaving the department and the some Now, what I'm trying to do per the salary. So I want to understand the maximum salary. I select the salary column or I in the salary column I go as we do the sort. I'll just click on sort there. Once I do that it will give me a wizard whether you have to sort as or largest to smallest I and I can see that in the sales department. I am giving the maximum salary 175 so this is how your body works So there are other things in the pivot table which are that we are going to see here. There is something and pivot table. What how what is Slicer And how does that work? When you go to analyze called as insert slicer. If you are anywhere you're not keeping You will not be able to see to the analyze button. You have to click and then click on analyze once you click on analyze as insert slicer now It's a kind So the same way similarly the branch on the top where I could filter the slicer to filter this data. So if I click on slicer and select which field if I want to filter it I can select Ok. Now it will give me a slicer or the list of higher dates So if I select only will automatically give me data who have been hired So this is how we However, now you can see I can only select one data But if I want than there is this something which is on the top right only available in 2016 version. So when I click on multi-select, it will give me options at a time in the slicer. So it is not necessary that you have to You can also add than just the dates to slicer again and now I that I want now Be there I can select So it will give so you can see which is their year. So there are two slices that you can you have You can work with two slices I select Calcutta and it gives me data for the replica in Darjeeling if I select one more date for Calcutta Darjeeling So the slicers can be and it will give you information how to create a chart and it also looks the same So when I click on the database where I want to create click on the pivot chart and then pivot chart it will automatically that I want to the similarly as we get the column chart ok Once I do that, it will automatically create You can similar You can give the name as a chart at add the data labels and click on a data Once you do that the data labels which you can see some if you don't want because it is It is giving you Also if you want to just hide and click on hide all It will automatically Now. If I add any additional you can only see that the sum of the basic salary of the row column. So what I can do is in the row once I do that it will automatically and give me the information as like we did it in a previous one where He had used by selecting the data and You can use a similar from row two column. So here the data will show So as you update your pivot table your pivot and all the same functionalities that is available is also available The only difference is that it is linked The other data is linked That is the only difference when you are looking at because your pivot charts that is updated their also, you are only giving the information or you're only that you want in the chart into the chart and then you selecting So that's how your pivot table if they are really really useful that you do for your company's and it will really Now. We have also learned and how to use the slicers There is another important part that you can link For example, your I which is slitting the department and giving you the total Now, I'm creating from the same database. So I just copy and paste that will also give but I do not want I want to know the salary in different region. So this is split as that I can add here is I can select and then and then click on insert size for the region or the date which ever you want I have deselecting Okay, once I click on Branch it will give me with which I can select and analyze the data but what I need now is I want which is a pivot table when I select ambala, you will see that only the can pivot table has given which is a North Region as it is because this slicer is to I want to link this slicer How can I do that? I will have to click on that then click Once I click It will give me the list of pivot tables available Now, we know that the in their feet one 310 is not our treat. So both the pivot tables So I'll select both from sheet 1 and click when I select it will automatically for that one branch just like that coaching it for that one branch same or a liquid and if I select more than one it selected and you me data that I had selected. So basically what I'm trying to say is you can connect two so that we'll be able to get the filters with one slicer So this is how your pivot table is in case of trying to get The next topic that we are going to see today is So how to do a data So there's something called in Excel through which you The analysis toolpak is that provides data analysis and Engineering data. Analysis to load Toolpak. You have to execute So how do you do that? Let's go to our Excel I click on the options. Once I click on the options under the add-ins select Click on OK. So when I go to add ins that you see here under the name where you see add-ins select and click on go button Once I click on OK button what happens it will open or the new window for you click and click on go. Once I click on go. It will give you that option Toolpak. We be a euro currency tools and the solver add-in I and click on OK once I do that now I that under data. There is something add it to my Ribbon, so you can now click on the data analysis to create that you want to do Now. Let's see how we can create the Excel data that we have. So what do we have here I have a list of data. Like I have the quantity salt the price of the product Now this example teaches you how to perform and how to interpret So now in the below data we The book question between the quantity in the advertisement. So what is it? Is there a relation and the output is so this is the price and this that we are doing that we are spending the quantity sold increasing that we are able to see so can we predict the quantity sold so if I know only what will be my quantity sold that is to do such kind of analysis we can use So I go on to the data tab and click on data analysis from this list and click on ok. Now there is a range that supplies some basic So how do you do this? Now? There are two things that we and the input X range. This will always be and we have to give So how do you give the range what should be the range? So the first thing as the Y range select the Y range a 1/2 a a this also called as So this is something that we have to predict it is We do not know We have trying to understand if we have the price your dependent variable Choose your a 2238 second one These are the These are also called as these columns must be So whichever you're selecting these two should be Now. I had to ensure why because these are that means this true. I know and this is dependent on the quantity sold That's the reason the quantity comes old is called while the price in the advertisement is called we have to check on the output range box where do we need the output? So where do I need So I click on the output range I need the output say So I select that then The residuals will You will have to check once I click on OK the answer. Be displayed in the What does that say? So if you see the results here, you can see that there is some basic regression statistics So what is it doing? It's giving you the basic statistics means we have and that's the reason that is what is giving The number of observations the regression tools supplies which is Anova about the degrees of freedom. This is called a degrees mean Square value the F value and the significance the Anova information regression about the regression line are calculated from the data. So it says that and read error that same thing at the standard error here, then you have the T stabbed and the probability value as the same information So this was for the dependent. This is for the independent which is the number of the regression data using So you can also add at you want to that you need from this. So this is how your So this is more or the financial analysis that you are planning to do when you are to the financial What is VB full form for applications. It is a programming language of It is powerful and sophisticated that allows you to write in an Excel spreadsheet and commands help you and that's why using VBA you can create your own automated which is again related to VBA. So macros are small programs as you perform a task. Set this will be saved which is a type of program file. So when you run the macro, it will repeat the keystrokes and thus repeat your actions. This is why they are repetitive tasks in Excel. So let's start with to see So I have the sheet with me which is entered on one a sales data on that data. I am going to do some formatting that so that we on that to start with recording. We need to have a developer tab in your ribbon If you're doing VBA, you will not be able to see So how we a developer tab. You can go to the You can right click something called as the once you click on customize on a new Wizard Excel options You will see under customize under main tabs. You will see all the tabs that are there under You will see something and the developer which is unchecked. If you don't have the developer You have to check that box the developer tab will be added Once you have done that now, you can see that You have a number of options that you can do is using the recording a macro What we are going to learn is So that means that when you or it will save these macros that you do like if I'm going to this cell I'm changing the format All these will be recorded by for applications. So that is the programming so it will convert it and save it under the module for And then when you re run it it will automatically or hold macro and do the repair. Of things that you've been So let's see. What is the PBA window first. So to go to the VBA window to your developer tab. Click on Visual Basic how your window looks The first one is 0v be That means that whatever You're working on your workbook. It will be by forget it So if you'll see that your workbook name We have booked one as the name You will see all the worksheets So the worksheets are sheet 1 sheet 2 sheet that is it is sales data sheet to the name itself is how that has been shown that you will see The properties window is Again which also helps of a little bit on the VBA. These are Two windows that you can see with we are going to go Now if you are in this window, how can you go back Which is your Excel tree? Okay, of course, you can toggle by using the All Tab Key. However, you don't know that you can click on that you can see here You can see the Excel Window that you can see you It will take you back that you were working for which the VBA is open. Once you go back to your sheet. Now, we are going to start before recording we that if you record a macro that you are assigning so we will see that also how you can assign a macro with the first we will do when you're recording in two different ways. One is the absolute referencing and another one is when we were walking on Excel, we all know how The relative work absolute referencing is if as per the keystroke if I go to cell C4 every time in the absolute referencing take you to cell C4 while if I do a relative where I was sitting It will go to that particular from the list will explore this So it will become more clearer. Let's start with the recording You can see this data I will go to the developer click I am going to do an absolute So I will just not click I'll leave it It will record is under the macro name. I'll start workin that you do not give when you're giving a name. So in this case. We are putting only absolute to create a custom keyboard with the control key to run into the box next to control + while doing this make sure you do not overwrite Like you cannot enter see your because it is a bad idea in command for copying that if you do not remember for Excel you better not put and just click on OK once I click on. Ok. Now the recording has started whichever cell I go to that So I start by going that as yellow then that bold and underlined which is column f 2 If I right click and I delete now I Once I've done this I Once I click on stop recording. The recording has stopped what is recorded How do I go to be a window by can alt F eleven I click You will notice that there is a new window which is the modules as you have module 1 is added You will see on the right which is called sub absolute because we had given the name and then the recordings shows as range D7 dot select that it needs to be changed the I dot select then it it makes it underline and delete and now last one Select. That means whatever I have done what I'll do is Let and paste it on this list. What I have done is Now. I am getting the original data how does our macro run. But before I run I will first add so that it will be easier for me to run the macro and not keep on going back what I do is I will go to my developer tab I click on insert under insert. You will see I can add a command which is the first one. I select the command button I can change the command button and making it as run absolute your I That should not be a problem. So I click on I'm trying to edit right clicking on that To give a name to that button I and click on edit. I enter run absolute. Once I've done that I've given the name after I give the name that button now I can assign How do I assign a macro? I select that right click on it Once I view that code that I have here and pasted it turn to the button and ends up between that's one way of doing it. But that is in case if you want to add there is also something called the button form control. If you do the form control, it automatically gives the macro button. So for example, if I go to insert I I select where I need that button it will whether you want to Assign a macro under assign I will just select which macro to and then I click on OK OK then I can change I can change the name the control button in this one. I had selected the normal button because you are able to add the assign the macro image Once I do this now. I will be able to run on this see it went and in the end. It also went to see nine last So that's how the Now if I want to I'm because we don't All right, let's see that later. So what I can do is another button with So I'll select this I I go to any other place other I'm not in the cell I go Sitting in the cell and then run the macro it will It will color the same sense and then go back I want to record a macro So what I do is I record on record macro same instead of microbial just put I click on OK and then I'll click before I do that. I'll have to copy Have this data or now. I'm going to record as So I click on record macro And then I'll have to select because this time I'm due to the I'll go back to cell D7. I color it as yellow I go I make it underline I go I click on delete and then go back to cell C9 and stop recording this time. It was a relative reference. So I'll go back I'll see where the under relative so I can see If you see that it is offset and those data it Let's start looking at how does So I'll copy this data and see as I will first have how I could do that by going I create a new button this time. It is relative. So I will give the name Okay, give the name as a relative so we know when I'm running the cell. I'll go back to sell this one. Click on series because I have selected as I had selected if I'm going anywhere else Now I'm not running the Mac OS but what was already I'm going to run the macro else like any other cell So it did the same thing. But because I had selected to this cell it made this cell as yellow and deleted which was not selected. So it would just I'm sitting under It will be relatively look which needs to be colored That's how the relative and the absolute referencing That's about your macro Have you give a button to to that button? And then how do you record and absolute referencing now, let's look at how to debug what happens is what is first of all debugging we've already learned How do you record? Micro, how does the VBA look when you record a macro with any code even and macro may not run as you expected this requires to find the defects The term that is used in software development allows you to pause and perform any required of the debugging tasks that you can do which one How do you step I click on this. If you code and your we are in the code another way whichever macro that You looking at relative. You can click on relative into it will take you The first line will So you will know that this is the macro that When I am on this macro, I want to see which one or which lines are running properly and which lines So what I can do is I can make so that I can see and how is it showing So I'm keeping this on the side to side making the properties window Once I have that now I I can also see So I start by the first one. The first one is already on this button the whole macro but I want to see How does the macro run so that if there An error where the error is. So I start with this. It's already yellow. I click on f8 to start As soon as I will click on f8, you will see the yellow first this part now it That means that this line so I click on f8 That means it is selected you will see that it is copying that data is selected see it is colored now it You will see that now it is active cell dot So it is selected That means it is going one column behind once it has done So whenever I'm doing f8, it is automatically keep So if till the time dry run fa till the end it will keep on this is a lot. Thing that it is executed It has talked to you you can see This is how you can debug I have a data with me where you can actually What I have done is I have who have given The Excel test is given I want to create a new sheet, which is a summary sheet that they have scored in each I need to earn use summary sheet I need something like to the next size 3 and so on and so forth and then I should whatever marks that they have the marks is. This is how it should show so I have written a macro how does this run on this sheet. So I have written I'm going to first close That you don't have I come here on the macro. You can see that I have written something As soon as I press f8. The first part of the Excel which is the sub sheet name. As soon as I do another f8. It will go to the next line As soon as I pressed sheet dot a DOT name is equal and the name of that street It's going to take me if you see it says range a 10 hundred Seventy-Six dot select. So it's going to the last cell which is 10 lakh forty thousand Now the next one if I execute it will see if it is empty, then it will select it so it is running each so you will see and giving me the number It will run until all and pasted on this cells. Your V and so your record You can debug a macro if there was an error it will there is an error here. Okay. that you enter your and it will automatically popped There is an error here. For example, I have I'll just put a name so that I know So let me delete and I I go back here and start that a new summary sheet is executed now it is giving when I'm doing this, let me start all over again. I'm going back. I'm pressing f8. Okay this one it's already when I'm executing It will give me an error because there is now if I click on debug it where there is a error, If for example that you have made that mistake, By if you just click give you an error saying How do you debug click on debug? It will take you to that line in this case, we have already created that And that's the reason it So let me start all over again. I click on stop now. I run again your it where the error is isn't this That's how you can debug where the errors it's so you will know that where You don't need to go back to understand where Now, you know how to work in your Excel VBA function there is something That's one part How do you do a breakpoint is and then So for breakpoint it will stop So for example, if I want to give I want to sell to stop executing or the VBA to stop executing which is summary sheet 48576 dot select after this. This part should So how what can I do is and click outside. It will give me a red mark, or I can just go to that part to that particular line, which you don't want That means that Excel will stop till he heard it will select will not executed next one. How do you check now? I can just click on run You'll see that it because I have given because I want to see Tell you I want to know So I give a break point earlier if I think that the issue so I can give a break. They'd also by just or by clicking on that part. Again. That's how the breakpoints I if I run the whole thing, it will automatically run because I remove This is how your vba's which is a very But of course you which is the recording to your advantage. Thank you for the I hope you guys So guys. If you have any queries please feel free to comment in the comment section Thank you and have a great day. I hope you have enjoyed Please be kind enough to like it and you can comment any and we will reply them at the earliest do look out And subscribe to Edureka Happy learning.