This video is about a very weird connection when it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict Left and the Arab world in general. I think that you support the Israelis or the Palestinians. and Muslims marching together student organizations, and even climate activists. left claims to hold - democracy, human rights, gay Muslim society? Not only do they not have any hates and criticizes about the conservative if not 100 times, worse in any Muslim society. relationship. Have you ever seen any I don't know how much experience you have of never very healthy... They're not good for you. and it is legitimate to criticize Israel, but than they criticize all the communist and Muslim The Left is secular, but Muslim society is women's rights, but Muslim women don't enjoy the to minorities in Muslim countries. If you're a comments below which of those values cherished I've seen this funny meme of queers for Palestine pretty much sums it up. If you're queer, gay or you don't want to be in the hands of Hamas. The same thing they do to Jewish babies. It's you don't want to be gay. Of the 20 most And even in the West, in the most liberal cities want to be gay in the Muslim communities in those in the U.K. about the views of Muslims towards illegal to be gay. And the Muslim communities If I were European, I would say to the Muslims - values. Do you disagree? You think it should be or Syria and enjoy your life under Muslim rule. I think that's totally fair. Actually, it's the be persecuted in London and Berlin 30 years probably the most gay-friendly city in the world 1930s. Today it is here, tomorrow it is there. regarding minorities and women's rights. is thriving in countries or areas under one. From Morocco to Iran, you won't find any. What I can say is that my biggest supporters are Christians from Nigeria and Iraq, many Iranians, Westerners don't have a clue about what it Those who don't like what I say don't usually know, you can't really claim that you want they attack me in general for criticizing Muslim I do it easily. I believe we should be allowed way too important to just neglect them So yes, I dare to criticize Muslim society I believe in. Many of my friends in the West are opposite of each other - multiculturalism individual freedom, freedom of speech, democracy, that I find wrong - fascism, communism, Nazism, multiculturalism and liberalism back down to and tells you that this is their tradition, that beat his grandmother... would you accept that as a your values as a good person? By the way, in some wives. Below I'll leave a link to a video from a authorities on how you should beat your wife. between men and women is that women have give the women pleasure. What a great gift! In they cut this organ off in 80% of girls. do you think that's OK? Have you even heard about against it? I can give you many more examples. trying to divert away from the subject and that This weird connection between the Left hostility toward Israel didn't start yesterday. connection between the Left and Israel. It was of Jewish institutions in the decades before and European Jews saw the Soviets as liberators in the establishment of Israel. Mainly to kick the the 1950s, that attitude changed, and there was a Union. These were called the Slansky Trial, the All against the Jews. And then from 1955 the In 1964, the Palestinian Liberation Organization it was established in 1964. Three years Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza, did they want to liberate? Could it be that, by Anyway, which country was the first to recognize a communist dictatorship that built denying them their freedom and cutting them tell me who your friends are, and I will There were also connections between Arab Let's stay in Germany. There were two main the RAF and the Revolutionary Cells. They were anti-semitic and, of course, anti-Israel. against Israelis. Now this is some high-level a half-city that was surrounded by East were suffering under the communist dictatorship they going to make the world a better place? By two German terrorists and two Arab terrorists Uganda. It was the German terrorist Wilfried Bose, and kept all the Jews on board hostage. tradition here. His father selected Jews as a communist. The beauty of tradition... Israel freed in which Yoni Netanyahu, the brother of prime In the last few years in Germany there's been a groups. I wonder if it would be the same if the far left has this halo. It's like: use complicated words, so it's OK, listen to So what do the Left and the Arab world have in well - and that something is hate. In Left have had tremendous success. better than them. I will start with the Left. that 100 million dead is quite a lot. In every there has been zero freedom, extreme suffering, fear and millions of dead. The Soviet Union, European countries. It has failed everywhere and biggest murderers in the 20th century were Mao In the Arab world, it's the same. I get so Jews and Israel and colonialism and the West countries? In recent decades, almost all Muslim if not 50 times, more casualties than in million dead, the war in Syria - half a million died. Lebanon, Libya, Pakistan... Of the 50+ The Muslim world is extremely violent. To the Muslim world today is where the Christian are millions of dedicated Catholics. And there were killing each other. Today, even though they and Catholics have stopped using violence. The hate of the Muslim world and of the territories but it is aimed at the basic values of freedom takes center stage. In the US you can you hate Jesus. You can stand in the middle of the can also do it in a Muslim country, but it will the same - they forbid people to speak if their book 1984 by George Orwell? People from the Left it's describing them. Cancel culture, language But it's more than that. The left-wing takes these all parts of our society and culture. It looks the complex reality to power struggles. Is that black against white, oppressors and oppressed. Here's another interesting point: the far right minorities... and they actually say it out loud. not like what he said, but he was at least very of course, but I prefer to be aware of it. Those equality, human rights and noble ideas... And spoke very nicely about progress and equality but And the crazy thing is that the only place in the to be is... Israel. The kibbutz movement is the voluntarily lived in a true socialist society for these nice ideas to life, at least for a while. you truly believe in the values of communism you yourself why it eventually failed. The kibbutz I can't say exactly when I formulated the throughout the years and through my studies. Science. But I know exactly when I encountered Arab world. It was in the summer of 2006. I Stalingrad. I drove all across Europe - it was a Churchill's daughter. It was also the time shocked. At the anti-Israel demonstrations, and the leftists that went along. Now that was also the time of the war in Sudan, about half a million dead and three million You might say: well, just because there are other doesn't justify terrible things in other places. million but absolutely outraged about the death You might need to confront your own values. and the Arabs are staggering in their hypocrisy. half a million dead and that is a tragedy. of the Left are outraged. I guess that if a then there's no need for demonstrations. years. I've been close to the Reichstag and seen lots of demonstrations there. Some of them Muslims speaking out against the true atrocities small and polite and had no support from the loud It is not caring about Gaza or loving the Left and the Arab world together. It is hatred for best: Israel will exist until Islam wipes it out. The glue that holds parts of the from the 50s right up till today, is hatred Today you can see it in Israel. Tomorrow A few final comments before I say yalla bye. content on Instagram and TikTok, and to add I am only one person. I don't have a crew. It's who don't understand why I'm standing on the myself. Also, I like the YouTube format of long I have a playlist of them on my channel, you can music, translate, and dub me using AI tools. about copyright or give me credit. Just do what and TikTok accounts and spread the word. video with friends who need to see this. the bottom of my heart for supporting me. these videos. You keep me going, there See you in the next video.