- Hey, I'm Matt. Today I wanna show you how that's mobile, has tons of storage, and is just flat out awesome. Let me show you how I did it. First thing you wanna that you're gonna be using, because you're gonna glue You want this glue to have time to dry. I use a ton of this glue and I'm using Titebond III for this. I decided to put down some because I figured it would (upbeat music) I coated the entire surface, then laid the other piece up there. And then I'll weighted or whatever you got. Just put a lot of weight on there, so that it compresses everything together. You see I got a lot of and it's exactly what I wanted. I'm gonna let that dry for several hours. The build plans for this project, including all the cut lists, easy to follow step-by-step instructions linked in the description below. Next thing we do is take my circular saw with this awesome little fence square that Tate Tools sells. I'll drop a link in the description. You're able to use your (mumbling) square just to cut a straight line. And that's what I did into smaller pieces so I Once I got the plywood I cut all the pieces I was Then I realized that I I couldn't fit between the So I moved the saw around and that's why I love that I was able to finish the cuts Then I broke out my It's pocket hole time. Make sure to set that Set the Massca M2 jig at 3/4 of an inch and drill pocket holes. Pocket hole joinery is extremely strong, especially for cabinet work and it'll last a very long time. Then I sanded it to 120 grit just to knock the rough Now it's time to start Just put a little glue on each edge where it's gonna be assembled. It will stay right there, right? It'll be fine, it'll be fine. Oh. I used these clamps to help while I was able to and I'm using an inch and This is the bottom that I'm just using the mallet make sure everything is nice and flush. Tighten those clamps down, then you can drive the screws without anything moving on you. Once that done, I started These are just braces that's gonna go on each edge of the top. That way it leaves the center Next, I inserted the center shelf. And I used my uprights that Same thing here, just slide it into place, use pocket Going up. Then I unboxed this Bosch router, so I could make sure everything I'll drop a link to this router and all the tools and in the description below. Next thing I did was cut the I cut it to fit. Then I just used glue on everywhere it was gonna be touching the back. Set it in place. And then I use 18 gauge brad This gives a cabinet a lot of strength. And then I decided to put a because I didn't want two I wanted four equal sides, Next, started cutting And you just cut a lot of plywood here, because you're gonna need Everybody always asks how Well, it's regularly cleaning it. I'm always vacuuming up the dust as I go. Then I cut the drawer pieces to length. I have a detailed video linked in the description below. But here I'm gonna be setting my cut depth at 1/4 of an inch, and then also 1/4 inch Then I'll make these dados in there, move the fence over, make another dado until fits in the bottom. Now I'm just using 1/4 inch plywood for the bottom of the drawers, then I sand everything to 120 grit. These are the slide-out trays. I'm just using glue and The glue will be plenty And for each end of the tray I use these little pieces And I had one that didn't go all the way, so I had to hammer it in. Now it's time to assemble all the drawers. So I've got about six This is how far I was able to get. I got four drawers built And then I just used the planer to mill these down to the same thickness. Now set my table saw fence from the blade as a piece of the plywood. That way when I cut this piece it'll be the exact We can put that on the plywood edge. Now, I just used glue and pin nails here. So having a pin nailer like this is perfect for this situation, because you can barely And if I don't show them to That just holds everything in I used face clamps to while I pin nailed it into place. And I just sanded everything to 120 grit. After sanding, I got this It accepts any hook and It fits perfectly on there. And then I just hand-sanded I'm gonna approach it a On the workbench I used They work perfectly fine, I like them. But I see a lot of people and I'm going with that, This video is brought to Go check out our online store where we have full build that includes the cut step-by-step instructions Also available are the digital if you have a CNC. And if you don't have a CNC, I'll have these physical trays that'll fit inside this router table. On the top two slide-out trays I put the door slides on the same side. That way I would just have a tray with an open face towards me, like that. Timber. That's heavy. Heavy, heavy, heavy. Next time I installed the casters. I just cut a block of plywood and then glue and brad nailed it in place. Then I screwed the I put the two locking Then I used this old trick to keep the plywood base from splintering, but this is gonna be the drawer faces. Then I just cut the drawer and then ripped them to Now it's time to work on the top. So I unstacked all these weights and then I started I want my tabletop to be 24 by 36 inches after the edge banding's on. And disaster strikes in 3, 2, 1. Oh no. Cut it too narrow. Dang it, who's gonna see that? Everybody. Dang it, shoot. Adapt and overcome, people. Next I secured the top on And then I worked on the Now, again, I'm just using walnut. This is 3/4 inch stock and I just attached with So in my haste to put this thing together I actually cut this too narrow and I don't wanna have to glue it back up on another piece. So what I did was just ripped this to the same thickness as that and then we're gonna put, I was gonna put this on the back anyway, but it's just not gonna The plans will not have this, so you ain't gotta worry about that. I'm a big dummy and messed Then I gave everything a light sand. Now for the power switch. I got this on Amazon, I'll I went ahead and mounted so I could have a place to screw this too. I'll deal with the wires later. So the most challenging part and what I was most apprehensive about was actually mounting this plate. And I just centered it up, drew around it. I took a forstner bit and And then I used the jigsaw Be careful that you leave enough space. You're gonna route a so that the router plate I'm just making sure that it fits. I measure over an inch and 3/4, because that's the distance from my bit until the edge of my router. Use double stick tape and Then I used the router lift itself to set the depth of the bit. Then slow goes it. I used a block of wood to so that I didn't get because I wanted to make sure and get that radius just right. I just took my time here. This actually took quite a bit of time and I just kept routing until I got most of the material gone. And I found a forstner bit of my router lift. And so the piece that was and drilled down until as of what the router had routed out. Then I took a chisel and as well as sandpaper. This took quite a while, because I just kind of worked Next thing to do was route I used my Kreg set up box here and set the depth at 3/8 of an inch. And then also use some so that it doesn't tear out your wood. Because if you don't, you'll get tear-out. That's what that block is Once that was done, I made and then I cleaned up Use a 1/8 inch roundover bit just to kind of knock the edge Then I used shellac on the top. This is supposed to seal this MDF and it actually worked extremely well. I put three coats of shellac and I sanded 120 grit between each coat. This dries really fast, less than an hour and I actually put shellac on everything, although I would live to regret this. So full disclosure, I put on And while it worked it sealed it, it's slick as owl snot. You hear me, it's just. The color come out amber and I hate it. I hate the way this looks. It looks like it belongs So I'm gonna sand this without trying to get into the veneer and try to take away some of that ugly. After the final coat was dry and sanded, I used a coat of Odie's Oil Then I buffed it off with a clean rag. Cut the T-track with your miter saw. It's aluminum, it'll cut. I don't like it, but you can do it. Then I just took a sander and kind of rounded over the edges, so that I didn't cut myself on the ends. I used a little CA glue and screws to attach it to the table. Then I mounted my drawer pulls and inserted all the drawers Then I mounted the router into the lift, put it in place, and used to make sure it's set just right. Then I routed those cables drill a hole in the back for I got help. Help is here. Power on. I got this fence from tatetools.com. I think it runs about $100. I'll drop a link in the description. This is actually a really You can actually have an It's got a bit guard, dust Next it was time to organize the routers and everything into the router table. So I just use a forstner then stuck a rare earth So now my adjustment wrench out of the way and it's I've been very apprehensive because I was nervous and fear was stopping me from starting. And that's a big problem myself included. But once I started, I just and it come out fantastic. And I'm extremely proud and happy to have this in the shop now. So a couple of things that I would change if I had to do this again. Number one would be the shellac. While it sealed the MDF great. And this thing is, it's slick as owl snot. It is smooth, it doesn't catch. That's what I was worried that it would be kind of rough, I'm telling you it is slick. Now I did sand it to 800 grit sandpaper, so I could get it really smooth. I would try to probably to cut this insert out, so that it fits extremely perfect. It's really close, really close, but it's not perfect fit. Without a proper template it would be hard for me to get it perfect, so I'm happy with it. It'll fill up with I'm gonna add a four inch when my dust collection gets here. Until then I'm just gonna so that there, or 2 1/4, so And a quick reminder, we've got build plans if you're interested, as well as several other 731woodworks.com/store. And those organization trays, which makes this a fantastic router table, will be available for you or a physical product and put them in your router A huge shout out and thank who owns Work in the Grain Hardwoods where I buy all my hardwood from. He donated the Kreg precision router lift, as well as the Bosch router for me to build this router So thank you, Mark. I sanded everything but the back, it's still got that 1980s If you liked this video, click that box right there to check out this It has a YouTube silver play I think you'll like it. It has a lot of storage, T-tracks, it's just an awesome If you have to click that box you get that big old virtual fist pump. Also another one of my