Translator: Lisa Thompson (Music: Intro accompaniment (Singing) Imagine I was a piano. (Laughter) (Singing) I'd be a very sad soul. I'm actually so easy to play - (Laughter) (Singing) But few of you really know. Imagine all the people play me like a computer - (Laughter) (Singing) You ... but it's no more just a dream, because now there is the Hao Staff - (Laughter) (Singing) You will know (Music ends)(Applause)(Cheering) (Speaking) Thank you. I decided about 10 years ago and ... I swear I never touched one before that. The reason was simple: and it seemed incredibly fun, and I'm incredibly good at typing. But there is a problem, although the piano keyboard looks simpler it is actually much harder The notation that we all use today is actually called the &quot;grand staff.&quot; It's used by all the music students, and it's been around Although the grand staff is not extremely it is very hard for somebody like me, or for anyone who did not pick it up Proof? If you search YouTube you will actually see and most of these videos are actually just showing you If music scores were easy enough to read, these videos should not be existing or they would have been done differently. They would have been made instead of just finding because it's much easier for you to find what to play But I was not a member so I had to find some other way I used Excel spreadsheet so I opened one on the computer. And this is actually what I did: I just dragged one piano keyboard manipulated it until the piano keys Then I selected the rows and colored them gray. And there you have a giant piano keyboard. And let's make some music notes And these are actually the first notes (Singing slowly) (Speaking) Yeah, that simple. And this is actually the illustration and was included in the patent certificate that was finally approved As you can see from the references I wasn't the first one to try The serious efforts are dated I gave the name Hao Staff to my invention, and ... this is what the actual By the way, they are not made (Laughter) Yeah. And there you have the higher notes to be played by the right hand and lower notes And you also have the finger numbers to indicate what fingers The Hao Staff sheets that the traditional except that they're laid out on the background instead of the abstract system of lines and spaces, if some of you study music, sharps and flats. It is effectively a &quot;what you see (Laughter) So we have a good product, I started to build a website, (Video) Narrator: What is Hao Staff? Shi Mo Shi Hao Shi Pu ? Jeff Hao: Those are the voices (Laughter) And they were - (Murmuring) They were not much bigger than that. And, by the way, they now look like this. In the time between these two pictures, while the young Haos were morphing (Laughter) I started to transcribe all sorts classical, classic work of pop, And the purpose of this effort who have never learned music before, when I was young. And I must make it clear: it is not recommended or the professional music students. And I also took it expecting the welcome of a hero. (Laughter) But the welcome part did not quite come, and in its place, skepticism, sarcasm, criticism, and pessimism, and even insults and anger (Laughter) Yeah, and that went on for quite a while, and then one day, I saw this post by someone called Pazu. I think that's a character name Anyway, there are multiple stories I'm just going to read some of it. &quot;I found the iPhone app, It was easy to understand. I was able to play which surprised my elder sister. She is a piano teacher. She always liked to tease me while sharing the same genes, had no music talent at all. In the past, she had tried to teach me but it did not work. I guess one has to have to be able to practice and memorize. After playing with Hao Staff I mastered the whole piece. Although it took a month for me to learn to play something it felt great. Some people say, Why not just learn But I only want to play something for fun; I don't want to go through As it turned out, this Pazu was a travel book writer who went all the way to Lhasa, Tibet, More similar, positive feedback It is working. It is changing people's lives. And just imagine how many people I don't know how many; (Laughter) And today, a group of people they have got together and the mission is to make all the people in the world to play the piano. We are also going to transcribe any piano music that anyone Why reinvent the wheel? We have all heard that many times before. Yeah, it has to be given the number of times Yeah, why reinvent the wheel? If we followed that wisdom to the letter, there would not have been tires and without the tires, there would not have been cars And Pazu would not have played (Video)(Music: &quot;Canon in D Major&quot;) (Audience)(Laughter) JH: Thank you very much. (Applause)