in this video i'm going to cover two exciting new 365 users, namely v-stack and h-stack, which works v-stack or horizontally with h stack, into straightforward, as you can see they simply take however there are some clever techniques we can sorting the data, specifying headers, which i'll cover in this video. and be sure to in its simplest form vstack combines multiple here i can stack these two tables into a single of rows in each array without a problem, but column headers can be added to vstack by entering in curly braces and each header is surrounded alternatively, you can reference an array it's the first array, or as i've done here, the we can nest vstack functions inside one another function separate to the headers. so, we'll my vstacked array, so i'm and then i need to specify the sort index. and that's in the third column, and i so that's minus one, close sort and close v stack if the array is being stacked at different place of the missing data. for example, here stack returns errors for the rank column of the you to specify something else in place of the so the cell appears empty. however, you could omitting duplicates from the final array close parenthesis on v stack and close unique. wrap it in sort. that's just going to sort it you can stack data spread across multiple sheets. on this sheet 2021, on this sheet notice that are different, as you can see 2022 only has four i can use a v stack with a 3d reference to now i need to expand the array down goes down to row 6, and then holding down array, close parentheses on vstack and press allowed for the table containing the it results in zeros being returned for the tables we'll look at hiding these blanks in the next your data stored in an excel table it's easy to if the tables grow, v-stack will automatically it's not quite as quick and easy to write the previous example contains some empty rows array. we can use the filter function to exclude for filter is the array that i want filtered, in that. remember going down to row 6 and through the array. the next argument is the logical test so again we're going to use v stack and we're just sheet 2022, and we're just going to check that criteria for filter, press enter and there's similar to the previous example, we can filter for to return the columns of the table including the same 3d array of the three tables through to sheet going to re-stack the categories through to 2022 v-stack. so here i've used v-stack three hstack is the horizontal stacking equivalent of completeness. here i have two arrays vertically into a horizontal array. i'm going to include quotes just to allow a blank column in between my parentheses. now because that blank column only in line with my two arrays that i'm stacking, i close parentheses and there's my two horizontally one of the advantages of the stack functions is any function that doesn't have support, except remember a 3d reference is one that references referencing the sheets 2020 through to 2022. on those three sheets like so, and we're selecting sheet 2022, close sum, and there's our supports 3d references. there are a lot of other see a link to that here in this file which you can now if you wanted to sum the data for the you might try and write a sum if function. let's so our range is the category down to row 6, and and the range we want to sum is the sales down to sumif, and you see we get an error, and that is 3d references don't work with functions that get around this using v stack. let's just see v stack the ranges so, we're going to restack the and then we're going to restack the sales values and you can see we can't even enter the formula. there are a few options, first of all we can so we're going to v-stack the categories in a 3d add in a double unary here to coerce the logical so i'm going to close that in parentheses, times close sumproduct and press enter. and there's more succinctly instead of sumproduct, we now vlookup and x lookup on the other hand do let's say i want to look up socks in my table array, so we're looking up socks in this array which column do i want returned? well and i want an exact match. close vlookup, press take a look we've only got socks on the first and of course we can also use the more robust and this time we're going to v stack, first and then we're going to return another v close parentheses on vstack, close xlookup, press xlookup is more robust and if you have the v i hope you found this tutorial useful. you can the link here, and if you like this video please for more. and why not share it with your friends