It was true the President was killed, but it was also true for no man could take away with a single day of drums. The voice of America, the voice still telling Almost 40 years after the death America has not forgotten on November seventh, 1960. A living myth surrounded by a family whose legend only grew disaster, and scandal. I am absolutely flabbergasted to see that after all these years, in the Kennedys. It's like atomic waste. It will never die. The story of the Kennedys is a dramatic combination brilliantly staged and played their vessels, and their enemies. It is a plain several acts and behind-the-scenes manipulations outrageous alliances, When you play touch football you must play very hard, He was burning the candle at both ends. The recklessness that that man had. I think his promise, had he gone through, would have been fulfilled than the people because in trying to hide whatever whatever was in his phone calls, they've created more questions John Fitzgerald Kennedy was a scoundrel as far as From the origins of the clan underworld associations, tales of debauchery, the Kennedy Odyssey today He was too young, very hard for us to take seriously. For the first time, a clearer and more pertinent light illuminated by revelations from former servants the Soviet Union. In the United States and in Russia, Tongues are loosened, documents appear, as if by magic. The hidden face Act one. As the First World War a small-time speculator harbors dreams of social advancement. He marries Rose Fitzgerald, breaks into the movie business, He is Joseph Kennedy, Joe is the boss and a tough guy and very wealthy, had been an ambassador that sort of thing. Knew all the politicians as we all knew. He was always in the background when they'd be picking up the ticket. Joseph Kennedy was a man of many talents, and one of the talents that history was a portion of his money, and he was a wealthy man, by dealing in illicit alcohol. This is the testimony a major figure in organized crime, and others, Doc Stacher, a major figure in organized crime, all told people that they had worked with Joseph Kennedy in the liquor business. Joe Kennedy, a shady businessman Joe would never be troubled On the contrary, in 1937, to Great Britain, If I am called an appeaser because I oppose the entrance I cheerfully plead guilty, and so must every one of you Joe played the outraged, but in reality, he was no diplomat. In war-torn Britain, his position in favor It was a serious error, and his repeated pre-war contacts and with Nazi dignitaries. If his diplomatic blunders so were his continued activities as he brought 200,000 cases The British counter-espionage service and their ears This is still a sensitive subject. MI5's archives remain classified, A failed diplomat, Joe Kennedy would soon become in the American political arena. Joe Kennedy was a big man, he was almost, in my opinion, He was firmly against the United States to the detriment of his reputation, his family, and everything else. Great Britain was so glad He kept telling Roosevelt just at the time Perhaps a strange statement but no, He knows that this time, If the patriarch apparently abandons the flame will burn anew through his sons with the weight The climb will take many long years, not even linking their fate the family of organized crime, the Mafia, in the shape of Sam Giancana, the Chicago godfather, Why is it that Joe Kennedy did almost the same things yet he is so revered We don't have a dynasty, and the reason we don't have our dynasty he had girls. As you know, the organization I guarantee you we would have had our own dynasty Joe, the Kennedys, and the underworld. Joe and Sam Giancana, Like Joe, Mooney made his fortune Despite a record of over 60 arrests, the Chicago Godfather in Las Vegas and Havana. At the end of the 1950s, and he had all Act two. Kennedy and Giancana behind closed doors. They first meet on the fifth floor of this building, In just a few weeks, for John Kennedy's nomination will take place in Illinois. It's a Protestant stronghold in order to rally To guarantee victory, Joe asks Giancana to round up That discussion was strictly to help Kennedy get elected president. Mooney could put workers in the West Side wards of Chicago. He did all that. He must have had 200 men out with their cars, helping out any way they could. That's how Kennedy won Illinois Did the mob play a role Yes, West Virginia, But, for the mob, He thought that, for the Kennedys, and just leave him alone and let him run things The Mafia goes Votes are bought, voters are invented, slush funds are created, the mob support is total. The election fixing who, along with others, without success. His paper, The Wall Street Journal, Today, all that Roscoe C. Born the final remains We discovered that there was no question that huge amounts of money to control these local machines. We can say, what person. We can show but we don't know. We did not have the passing of money from A to B at a given time and place which normally you don't have to have. You can interview people, and you can make a judgment and you can write a story. I think they must have been very reluctant to undertake it in the first place, Roscoe was unable The proof he lacked Proof of collusion and the Crime Syndicate, The FBI did not intervene. The bureau's second-in-command, today feels free to talk. It had been reported very clearly that the Mafia gave approximately $25,000 was a lot of money at the time Why didn't the FBI pursue the Kennedys Perhaps it was a way to hold compromising files in reserve against him. The weary president-elect makes reading aloud his answer In reply to the Vice President. Act three. Democracy deceived. On November 7th, the man now known The Kennedy clan has won its bet, The man can rejoice in the shadows. As an expert in vice, Joe Kennedy is now virtual vice president. Joe Kennedy picked out the old man, picked pretty much who was going The picture was &quot;Bobby will be attorney general,&quot; &quot;and I don't want Bang, just like that. Jack said, &quot;Yes, sir,&quot; By appointing his son, the second most powerful man Joe kills two birds with one stone. He protects the clan and their underworld connections, At the peak of their triumph, the arrival of a giant. The new masters of America from now, are in the sights the Soviet Union. From public crisis to private scandal, the Kremlin spies, double agents, and tacticians never let up For the first time, Secret Intelligence Service, Victor Liubimov's mission was to recruit informers. He is still a good GRU advisor, It was important to establish contact When we asked the Kennedy brothers, they told us, who you can find in France on the Riviera. He was the one who dealt For the Kennedys, America's economic interests and the danger lies Devil's Island, Castro's Cuba. In power for just a year, particularly the mob, into a gigantic casino and brothel. From the outset, the Kennedys are outraged It'd been a campaign issue, and the Soviets [Russian spoken audio] Then, I want it clearly understood in meeting its primary obligations, Should that time ever come, on intervention for all time Get rid of Castro and the Castro regime. That was the phraseology. When I asked my boss &quot;What do you mean, get rid of?&quot; He said, &quot;No holds barred, use your imagination.&quot; &quot;You put any definition you want to it.&quot; They wanted him out of the way, assassinate, murder, That was never used. It's the language you don't use at all. You don't have to. Strange language indeed. They asked us. They want him to disappear. They are the Kennedys, but there's no way that killing, and eradicating the communist threat Castro is protected and discretion Even if the Kennedy clan that have already proved cooperative. The CIA asked me and find out if he would consider getting to get involved I have to tell you right now about any of this convinced me that Mr. Castro and launching platforms to the security of our country, and that in fact, Robert Mayhew one of the Chicago mob's top hitmen. His boss is an old Kennedy acquaintance, Roselli, Giancana, in the restaurant Between drinks, they set out the details First, and then they couldn't get anyone They came up with the idea that would have a delayed action... Without a doubt, Sam Giancana received money to assassinate Castro because they used to laugh about it. Mooney was getting all The poison pills in the plastic and I gave them to Roselli. As a former FBI and CIA secret agent, Robert Mayhew was questioned in 1975 by the commission investigating in assassination attempts made regarded as hostile to Uncle Sam. His testimony was ignored and buried. The Attorney General, Robert F. Kennedy, on what the CIA was trying to accomplish and having a liaison with Mooney Giancana and organized crime in Chicago We were against it. It was reprehensible Why? We were dealing with a snake, Furthermore, that we had hoped to bring at least enable To become closely associated and to be beholden to them looked very bad and we were glad They went forward and found, I believe, it was a lady and at the last minute, it did not happen. She lost her courage. Act four. Castro, the CIA, the Mafia, and disturbing two-faced game. On one hand, and pitiless crackdown on organized crime, while the other hand works with the Mafia The first attempt is a failure, the Kennedy's Caribbean D-Day The operation in the spring of 1960 was prepared by the CIA The American government millions of dollars We were sure that President Kennedy was going that he was going and that we would be able At that time we believed that either we would be dead We never thought They lost because they were abandoned The anti-Castro army made up trained by the CIA, totally inexcusable for those Bay of Pigs survivors Kennedy's great mistake, the treason, was not It is to have canceled the air cover. After such a decision, it was obvious It was an evident disaster. It was a criminal and cold-blooded decision against the brigade It was treason, it was cowardly, and that was Kennedy. We were almost guaranteed to be able to land, and that the Cuban Air Force Therefore, we had nothing That never happened. The Cuban Air Force started bombarding us It sank several ships and it attacked us on the beach. We really were never able The cancellation of the air raid from Kennedy at the last minute. When that decision was made, to stop the invasion. We allowed these kids and it was a foregone conclusion without these two elements in place. That's an assassination of sorts. When we got back to the beach, we also realized That we were on our own, A last stand that could not be taken Glory to the new victory Long live Cuba. Our homeland until death... We salute you! Our propaganda department was delighted, We managed to walk all over the Americans We were over the moon. Some were angry, Others knew that the Kennedys Kennedy got me to do a lot of unofficial trips for him. Our State Department and meet with the heads I went all through Central to figure out, makeup, who would be friendly That's who was going to be a dictator, who should we be cultivating, Kennedy spoke a new social contract, That was one side of the coin. The other was that these ideas It was handled by Dick Bissell, who was then the head to create an executive action capability if some leader turned up who was making trouble it'd be up to the president to decide whether he wanted In 1961, he approved a foreign policy version a CIA murder squad entrusted in the emerging Third World. This exceptional document They are extracts into Kennedy's involvement The assassination of Castro. Bissell testifies, &quot;I do not remember instructing him &quot;I remember instructing him&quot; &quot;to proceed &quot;which was to plan for The chairman asks, &quot;Would it be fair to say &quot;had informed the president Bissell replies, &quot;I assumed that he had at least intimated They asked me assassinate Lumumba. They sent me some poison It was to put in his toothpaste I don't remember the details now, exactly how I would use it, because I never In fact, I threw it in the Congo River. Lawrence Devlin did not use the poison, Patrice Lumumba was mysteriously murdered Rafael Trujillo, was also killed. The day before he was shot to death, the president's secret emissary, Lumumba, Trujillo, and then Ngo Dinh Diem, who was shot several times in the head. His murder Bodies fell, but not the killers. Act five. In the public eye, and the burden of power The Kennedys worked hard to maintain an image Mrs. Kennedy has been showing us about the White House What do you think I think the great effort that she's made in contact Mrs. Kennedy, We did in the beginning. It was where we lived when our rooms at the other end I loved living in this room. It's on the sunny side of the house, is right outside the window. The candidates were far to running the country. During their 1,055 days in power, the White House In the White House, and people don't really know. As a general public, they don't ever think about that. He'd get these pretty girls, and he'd get them He was always after them. He said, &quot;Well, get in the pool.&quot; These girls said, &quot;No, I don't want, He said, &quot;Get in the pool &quot;while you're in the pool He'd go collect them, saying, &quot;Let's see, &quot;This is yours, He'd have a good look He loved that, he'd laugh. They'd finally get on to it and giggling. He had a lot of fun, How could Jacqueline know anything and telling her, it's good when they've opened another White House staff member I never liked that. I never liked how it looked. I never liked As a Secret Service agent at close quarters, Larry Neuman Forty years of good and faithful service, It was surprising, more than shocking Beyond that, or staff members seemed to encourage satisfy the president's whims and fancies. Kennedy used every woman They were not personal to him. They were playthings, so from his perspective, There were so many One of the organizers was Pierre Salinger. He was really one of his closest friends. He would organize There was a whole group of them, and he loved it. Another well-informed Soviet. He fingers Pierre Salinger, and eternal promoter of that cult film, Leonid Zamyatin's statement &quot;There was a whole group of them, -How do you react to that? Not of Jack, but the president. What about Jackie, his wife? That was an interesting thing She was a great friend of mine. We did a lot of work together. She didn't want the journalists of John Jr and Caroline because they would be outside, from doing any photos of them. However, John Kennedy wanted When Jackie went to India and Pakistan, Kennedy called me &quot;Now we can do a lot of photos.&quot; That's when the photos In fact, in his room where you have those photos together with John Kennedy. You did that -Yes. Exactly. -That's your answer to the Soviets? Another way Your friends participate or keep quiet, Stories of discarded are not on the agenda. A legendary scene and a legendary liaison. The history books would with Marilyn Monroe. History recalls that she was merely one and high-class hookers used to relieve and his health problems? Do the history books reveal a mistress that JFK shared none other than Sam Giancana? A shared mistress and a shared objective. At the time, in the preparations She was sleeping with both men. That also is on the record. She's admitted it. She was one when she was in her early 20s. I don't blame President Kennedy, but he did have some beautiful women. I believe she was much in love There happened to have been some transferring to both Washington It's still a mystery to me Years later, Judith would admit that one Another hypothesis evoked today sent by the Mafia The mob believed and votes, they also gave him women. What did he do? He turned on them. I think you can say in particular, not the others, may have contributed Her closeness to the mob, and her relationship caused considerable consternation After the president Mr. Hoover told Bobby Kennedy about it, The president indicated He did for a while, We knew all that, but we didn't descend We'd never have blackmailed a president Also, we weren't going because we didn't want them With respect to the head of the KGB, Recently declassified FBI archives show that the Soviets were able This is the file a regular visitor The file is not classified, by the censors. The man in charge of the investigation Carter DeLoach. The FBI knew that Ellen Romich, let me put it this way, was an East German espionage agent. Consequently, we were following We knew the association We were cut out completely In other words, and back to East Germany. Frankly, I have no facts on that and I don't repeat rumors. There was an earlier situation during World War II, by the name of Inga Arvad. Inga Arvid, at that time She was never indicted. There wasn't sufficient evidence to do so. Kennedy had Inga Arvad visit him in various places, Norfolk, It probably was the reason while he was in the Navy, was transferred in Charleston, South Carolina to Florida, It also was a serious breach because we knew nothing off-the-record people We didn't know We were in the middle of the Cold War. If President Kennedy wanted to the White House pool there was nothing Act six. Neither Judith Campbell could seriously worry not even the presence The CIA told me because they had seen I don't think he was doing any work He was doing a newspaper. His intentions were different, however. He was to infiltrate the Kennedy clan. Introduced Bulgakov would enable Jack secret diplomacy. Bulgakov would be the intermediary Kennedy and Khrushchev. In this case, the brother's handling The friend they invited to the White House He was a good journalist. He knew the terrain, but that wasn't the point. Bulgakov was, first and foremost, a GRU secret agent and then he was asked on Robert Kennedy. In a few months, Bulgakov became a trusted Officially, he didn't exist, between Kennedy Bulgakov died in Moscow in July 1989 without speaking In his place, A former friend and GRU colleague who was, for the first time, still classified as top secret. They were in touch almost every day, either on the telephone or Robert Kennedy and Bulgakov would go to talk alone. That's how they became good friends. All the information to military intelligence in Moscow. It was then passed on Our embassy that had been cleaned up Was this merely naivety, The peak was reached and there would be a price to pay. The eyes of the world were opened wide as they gazed on The first handshake between the two Ks The key issue at the meeting was the delicate problem The man shaking hands is none other than Viktor Sukhodrev, a crucial witness. What Khrushchev didn't like about Kennedy He was too polite, and in his gentlemanly attitudes. He saw him as someone too weak. Kennedy was always trying He wanted an agreement, a kind of coexistence, He was trying based on each bloc's principal zones Khrushchev became absolutely furious. &quot;What, we have to share the world?&quot; &quot;Who can stop us helping Cuba?&quot; &quot;Do you want to make &quot;What will the other countries think?&quot; &quot;All the various people struggling Then, he began a long speech The Vienna summit was a bitter failure. According to some Kennedy aides, What would he do if he'd known that, GRU agents provided Khrushchev on the Soviet Union. Kennedy was checkmated. Khrushchev clearly heard Kennedy's message that he wanted The documents in his possession demonstrated a huge difference and the printed facts presented After the meeting, we went with Khrushchev and Gromyko, We went for a walk in the garden, He suddenly came out &quot;I really pity the American people Europe was also to be pitied. In August 1960, War seemed imminent. Every week, The source of world trouble If war begins, and not Berlin. The choice of peace not ours. An unambiguous statement defining for the wall of shame. JFK looks the free world The president's sincerity uncle Sam is the good guy. These boxes probably contain They contain dozens of letters Letters where history The White House to build the Berlin Wall, but against what? These documents remain confidential perhaps in a few centuries. When Bulgakov gave Khrushchev's Salinger opened it &quot;That's good, the Soviet Union In his reply, Kennedy also took a step forward by acknowledging the East German border It was the status quo. There were 45 letters and only five of those The other 40 are still hidden. That's something for the United States to understand what Kennedy in writing these letters. Act seven. Was the match tied? Not yet. Victory is essential, whatever the cost. For the Kennedys, They felt they had and they were doing all kinds It wasn't just the CIA, Operation Mongoose, for example, which is just a crypto name for the whole US government, Everybody was involved. The Defense Department, State Department, and all the rest of them. In early 1962, Operation Mongoose a simulated invasion in the Caribbean, and round-the-clock aerial spying In May, CIA planes located components brought in by Soviet ships, but Operation Mongoose Khrushchev still holds all the aces. The Cuban Missile Crisis starts here, and this time, I have directed be taken immediately. First, to halt this offensive build-up, a strict quarantine under shipment to Cuba is being initiated. As the situation worsens, compromise appears impossible The Third World War and America is put on full alert. What was happening in Moscow? As Kuznetsov told me later, Khrushchev was crapping his pants. On Sunday morning, a message reaches the White House Press Secretary Salinger announces that Chairman Khrushchev has agreed and reads Mr. Kennedy's reply The president already to attend services at his church. In order to thank God, or to confess, that confrontation In the public eye, The Soviets had lost face. That was the official version which allowed Kennedy Once again, Khrushchev lost a great deal the world's press wrote that he had withdrawn his missiles, that it was a complete victory Nobody knew that in reality, Kennedy had demanded He didn't want people American missiles The fact of the matter was, we had to find a way out of the corner with a blockade around Cuba, and other missiles on the wire. That's World War III. What do you pay to get out of that? Tell me what the price is If it's a couple of missiles they're out. For the retreat of the missiles in Cuba, Khrushchev not only got the withdrawal and the continued presence but also the promise on the island. The promise was not kept. We felt we were getting whiplash in the galleys to keep on doing and pushing and pushing. That's where the pressure came from. As I said, for two months, we were fine. After the missile crisis, Then suddenly, One last document, recently declassified Its code name is OPLAN 38063. Its subject is Cuba. It contains execution methods, plans for infiltration, an organized reprisal attack and the destruction of the Castro regime. The operation JFK thought he knew In fact, it was played out in Dallas, Texas. Too many compromises, too many lies, but that is another story.