The man known to history as Giacomo Casanova city of Venice, then the capital of the Venetian Casanova was born into a family of actors. His mother was Zanetta Farussi, the beautiful years old when she married Gaetano Casanova, Although Gaetano promised Zanetta's parents during an age when actresses were frequently soon began performing in her husband's troupe, comic stage, with no shortage of admirers. For this reason, although Zanetta's six of all six, including Giacomo, the eldest, Giacomo later believed that his father was Samuel and when Gaetano Casanova died in December of eight-year-old Giacomo and his siblings. While growing up, Giacomo saw little of his he was brought up by his maternal grandfather Although he would spent most of his life abroad, his life. Famed for its network of canals and bridges operatic hits, Venice had a proud tradition a thousand years old, with a maritime empire However, there was a darker side to the city state repression, all of which would play At the same time, 18th century Venice enjoyed carnival and masquerades attracting young to visit not only for the history and art that would not be acceptable at home. At the heart of Venice's cultural and social the city playing to full crowds throughout The young Giacomo was a sickly child and frequently The Grimanis decided to send him to the inland do him good. On the 2nd of April 1734, Giacomo's ninth journey by boat to Padua. After Zanetta paid for him to stay for six inspiring a sense of resentment in Giacomo, rid of him." Giacomo had been poorly educated in Venice, assigned to a class of five-year-olds by his and teacher. Giacomo quickly showed promise and became latter attempted to improve the boy's living He helped Giacomo write letters to family to make her way to Padua herself and arrange He was taken care of by Gozzi's teenage romantic feelings. In 1736 Giacomo and Gozzi visited Venice for to take up a contract at the Russian capital During this visit Giacomo impressed his mother with a family friend successfully translated Casanova would later write that the acclaim literary fame, although he would not write Back in Padua, the eleven-year-old Giacomo the hands of Bettina. While helping the boy put on a pair of stockings his thighs were dirty and proceeded to wash In Casanova's later description, "Bettina the consequences of which led an ashamed Giacomo Although Giacomo's ardour for Bettina diminished with an older boy, the two would remain lifelong In 1737 Giacomo enrolled at the University and would graduate with a doctorate in 1741 of Jews to build synagogues. While Casanova himself hoped to study medicine, Church lawyer. In 1739, he returned to Venice, where in January of Venice and assumed the title of "abate." Following an introduction from his parish came under the wing of Alvise Gasparo Malipiero, next door to the Casanova house. One of the leading political and social figures his palace and introduced him to high society. As a member of the clergy, Casanova also had unwillingly by their mothers. Dividing his time between the church, the young Casanova dressed in the latest fashions Father Tosello was unimpressed by Casanova's him the keys to the house, enabling him to cut off his fringe. An infuriated Casanova complained to Malipiero, hair and offered him the opportunity to preach in Tosello's place. Though his first performance at the pulpit such a disaster that Casanova fell to the degree. Within a few months, Abate Casanova was back not-so-religious duties. In late 1740, he met Angela Tosello, the priest's with her. While Angela informed Casanova that the romantic abandon his priestly career and marry her, In the summer of 1741, he accepted an invitation to their country house. There, he received the attention of the fourteen-year-old Casanova recalled gallantly that he refused it when the latter ran off with the Montereales' By the time he was back in Venice, Casanova the two Savorgnan sisters, Nanetta and Marta, were distant relations and close friends of After the three pretended to fall asleep, of the girls, and then the other. Casanova would continue to be involved with to them as his "little wives" until Nanetta her earlier lifestyle. The young man's sexual confidence was such actress Teresa Imer, whom Malipiero had intended When the old senator awoke from an afternoon Casanova with his walking stick and threw Since 1737, Casanova's mother Zanetta had who was also the elected King of Poland, and In early 1743, Zanetta used her influence cause, helping to secure the transfer of Bernardo the bishopric of Calabria in southern Italy son. A delighted Zanetta wrote to Giacomo and predicted or thirty years. The eighteen-year-old Casanova set his sights necessarily prevent him from having an active In March 1743, following the death of his sent to the seminary of San Cipriano on the his way to his new see. At the seminary, Casanova developed a crush in bed with a different boy as part of a prank. When Casanova claimed innocence, he was placed and forced to return to Venice. Not long after returning home, he was imprisoned because the Grimanis wanted to teach him a On his eighteenth birthday on the 2nd of April a lieutenant and agreed to write petitions favours, after which he received the unwanted By the time Bishop de Bernardis arrived in and agreed with the bishop that they would go together to the bishop's see at Martorano With little money, Casanova was aided by a him how to beg for alms to pay for his onward While Casanova hurried to Rome, covering as to walk at a steady pace of three miles a In a hare-and-tortoise race, Casanova was before Steffano caught up and bailed him out. By the time Casanova reached Rome, Bishop not see the bishop until his arrival at Martorano. Casanova was disappointed when he realised any furniture in the bishop's palace. When Casanova complained about the mundane him of his obligations while providing letters Through one of Bernardis's contacts, Casanova boy. A distant relative, Don Antonio Casanova, Giacomo decided to move on to Rome. As he was leaving Naples, Casanova encountered later identified as Anna Maria d'Antoni travelling with her husband and sister. During the six- day journey, Casanova and presence of the latter's husband. The relationship remained unconsummated until secured employment as the secretary of Cardinal Church. As part of the agreement governing his employment, of international diplomacy, and progressed In the winter, he met Pope Benedict XIV at now home to the President of Italy. Although the Pope congratulated Casanova for later in the year Casanova was warned that knowledge, and that it was rumoured , truthfully, child, which indeed she was. By January 1745 the Vallatis were set to return to let his young secretary go. The cardinal asked Casanova where he wanted of letters of introduction. To the cardinal's surprise, Casanova expressed Istanbul, the capital of the Turkish Ottoman court that captured the imagination of 18th In early 1745, as he stopped at the papal encountered a family of travelling actors. Among them was sixteen-year-old Bellino, a In order to get around the papal ban on female to be castrated to preserve their angelic Liaisons with both of Bellino's sisters the boy. Troubled by the prospect that he was in love Bellino was in fact a girl, as it was not papal authorities by dressing as men and pretending His suspicious were eventually proven correct, Lanti," possibly the opera singer Teresa Casanova persuaded Teresa to unmask herself states. The two made plans to marry, but the relationship to commit, though the affair produced a son Casanova claims to have lost his passport a mercenary soldier, making plans to return After a brief stop in his native city, where army, on the 4th of May 1745 he sailed to by Antonio Dolfin, the new ambassador to Constantinople. Casanova proceeded to lose a great deal of the gambling table. After arriving in Corfu, Casanova transferred Constantinople by mid-July. Casanova He carried with him a letter of introduction Bonneval, a Frenchman who had since converted Ahmed Pasha. Through Bonneval, Casanova was introduced that the Venetian should marry his fifteen-year-old Casanova He seriously considered the offer step too far. Casanova rejected the advances from another to as "Ismail," though he agreed to join On their return, Casanova he eagerly accepted members of his household bathing naked in take part in his first homosexual encounter by the three sirens." After leaving Constantinople with gifts from and briefly served as an adjutant to a naval in the autumn. Having failed to achieve his ambitions in asked the Grimanis for help and was hired In March 1746, Casanova happened to be riding Bragadin when the latter suffered a stroke. Casanova found a doctor who began to apply senator had suffered a heart attack. As Bragadin's condition worsened, Casanova the remedy, enabling the senator to recover. In gratitude, and under the impression that the fifty-seven-year-old Bragadin invited rumours that the men were in a homosexual Within weeks, Casanova agreed to be the senator's The young man also befriended Bragadin's receiving money and support from all three. With financial bacnking from the Venetian rest of the year "gambling and pursuing Casanova's behaviour wasere known to the of state censorship that regarded the rise subversive threat to the Venetian state. Casanova left Venice for Milan in January Lanti's sister Marina, now seventeen. Casanova accompanied her to Mantua where she While he doubtless had his eye on the teenage partner Antonio Stefano Balletti, whom Casanova In early 1749, just as he was about to leave witnessed an argument at his inn between a of having a woman in his bed masquerading After intervening to resolve the issue, Casanova was a Frenchwoman named Henriette on her way Immediately drawn to the lively and witty older than him, Casanova proceeded to accompany month affair that appears to have been the life. He was distraught when Henriette announced in France and accompanied her over the Alps in Geneva. After initially returning to Parma to reminisce Casanova received word from Bragadin that He soon set up a small private casino, making to Paris in June 1750 in the company of his since February for carnival season. Casanova was twenty-five years old and well lovers in history. In fact, the 130 or so amorous experiences for an 18th century adventurer who travelled Compared to Casanova, the likes of the Marquis in the bedchamber, but Casanova was unique of seduction. When Casanova arrived in Paris in the summer through his fifty-nine year reign, and his in her late twenties and at the height of and high fashion. While he rented his own lodgings, Casanova he was introduced to the leading lights of The seventy-six-year-old playwright Prosper giving him three lessons a week to refine Crebillon and Balletti took him to the theatre, with his mother. Casanova was also able to expand his social He had been initiated into a masonic lodge and within a few months of his arrival in master mason. The two years that Casanova spent in Paris On one occasion, Casanova's friend Prince him to the forty-three-year-old Duchesse de When the prince left the two alone, the duchess to unbutton his breeches. In order to thwart the duchess's intentions, gonorrhoea and was thrown out of the premises. In early October, Casanova joined the Ballettis Palace of Fontainebleau south of Paris for A few days later, Casanova was at the opera box. After the royal mistress took notice of him leaned over her box and asked Casanova whether Casanova confidently replied, "Venice, Madame, It is up." Soon afterwards, La Pompadour's companion which of the actresses he preferred. When Richelieu remarked that Casanova's aristocrat "in assessing a woman's beauty legs." Such witticisms enhanced Casanova's reputation people to seek introductions to the young Despite his enhanced reputation at court, would make him a steady income and continued Venetian patrons, and any money that he managed Any money he did receive was not enough to frequent visits to Parisian brothels with Patu. As Casanova sought for means to sustain his he was introduced through his masonic contacts cousin, a beauty whose looks were tarnished She had been told about Casanova's healing her face in water daily and avoid cosmetics. When the cure worked, the duchess promised of twenty-five thousand livres," though While Casanova admitted to being in love with witty conversation endeared her to him, he - even though the duchess had a list of Casanova's stay in Paris was complicated that her tenant had impregnated her teenage Although Casanova denied it, when the landlady for both sides. While Casanova was still struggling to obtain Francesco and Giovanni had been training as In the summer of 1752, Francesco arrived in French capital could serve as a lucrative However, Francesco soon had one of his paintings angered and humiliated. He suggested to his brother that they should might be able to use her connections at court The brothers arrived in Dresden in October, twenty-one-year-old sister Maria Maddalena. While Francesco continued his artistic studies painter Anton Raphael Mengs, Casanova wrote by Jean Racine's La Thebaide, a tragedy Euripides' dramas of the Theban civil war Oedipus and Jocasta. Casanova retitled the play La Moluccheide acts while retaining the sibling rivalry. While the performance was well received and III, he hoped to leave behind the family trade. He might have delighted in comedy and music, own - at least, not for the stage. After a few months in Dresden, Casanova decided Day 1753, the most important day on the Venetian ceremony of the Doge of Venice renewing his into the Adriatic to symbolise his marriage A couple of days later, he was travelling of him overturned. As Casanova rushed over the give assistance, skirts being upturned in his face. The following day, as he was having coffee Florian, the same lady reappeared and reintroduced While on a gondola trip with the lady and they were brother and sister, Pietro and Caterina During the carnival season Casanova bought the Caprettas frequently. While Pietro hoped to sell Caterina's virginity with her and was unwilling to take advantage. When Caterina declared that she was in love could no longer resist and planned to get merchant father Christoforo. Despite Bragadin's support for Casanova's to a convent on the island of Murano to stop This failed to prevent Casanova from maintaining Laura, who acted as a conduit for other nuns given Christoforo's instructions it was Despite his intentions to marry Caterina, with Teresa Imer, whom he had last seen more Though Teresa was now married and was working a night with Casanova and also became pregnant. While Teresa would give birth to a daughter, in July. In November, Casanova he received an anonymous convent inviting him to meet her. He discovered that the woman in question was her pregnancy. Referred to in his writings by the initials and Casanova carried on an affair over the the walls of the convent sponsored by the who was also involved with her. In his memoirs, Casanova suspected that M.M. In early 1754, the former smuggled the latter Casanova, who was shocked to see her there Though he vowed not to see either woman again, threesomes. Not long after, Caterina left the convent had planned all along, while Casanova continued with a greater degree of intensity. Casanova's misadventures with nuns, his with Venetian aristocracy once again brought On the 26th of July 1755, he was arrested a number of his books on astrology and erotic Taken to the inquisitorial prison under the he was informed that he was to be incarcerated charges against him. Although Casanova he had been in Venetian soon realised that he would not be let out After nine months in solitary confinement, for exercise. While exercising, he found an iron spike and He attempted to use the spike to dig a hole Though the Inquisition chamber was directly could somehow talk his way to freedom. On the 25th of August 1756, when the hole the plaster ceiling, he was unexpectedly transferred Casanova managed to establish contact with The two men hid notes in the books they lent Casanova managed to smuggle the iron spike concealing it with one of the paintings he On the night of the 31st of October, Balbi two took advantage of the Inquisition staff's to make good their escape via the roof. Although they found themselves locked in, The two men escaped to the Italian mainland After a week, Casanova managed to get out 1757 he was back in Paris. With social connections but no money, he called stay at a nearby house. Casanova also decided to track down de Bernis, was now serving as Louis XV's foreign minister. The latter introduced him to Jean de Boulogne, When Casanova heard about a scheme for a lottery by his fellow Italian Giovanni Calzabigi, to become a trustee of the lottery. Casanova He used his connections he made at which promised to make men millionaires if of the ninety they could choose from. The lottery proved lucrative not only for who made a great fortune with an income of in Paris and later across the country. He was thirty-one and finally secured a steady lifestyle as a fixture of Parisian high society. On the 1st of March 1757, Casanova witnessed Damiens, a former soldier who attempted to arrival at the French capital. In a well-documented four- hour ordeal, Damiens lead poured over him, castration, and finally while he was still alive. Casanova's description of Damiens' execution living. He fell in love with Manon Balletti, the seventeen-year-old musician in her own right. Although Manon was already engaged, she reciprocated was unwilling to seduce her out of respect While Casanova considered proposing marriage with other women. On the 16th of September, Manon's mother Casanova to look after her daughter. Casanova promised to marry her shortly before Bernis to report on the condition of the French from the government. Manon eventually ran out of patience and married summer of 1760. While returning to Paris in October 1757, with the Comte de la Tour d'Auvergne and In the darkness Casanova reached for her hand Just as Casanova was reaching climax, de la dear friend, for this courteous and unexpected expecting nor deserving of" and burst out The two men soon became close friends, and in the winter Casanova proposed a cure and Casanova's reputation as a mystic healer to his friend's aunt, the fifty-two-year-old in France. Casanova long claimed to be a believer in to Judaism that believed God manifested himself The marquise was desperate to recapture her and Casanova obliged her by helping her translate codes which he claimed were from an oracle Casanova was soon one of several mystics who set up in her home to conduct alchemical experiments. She told Casanova that she was also seeking spirit could be transferred to the body of In between his dealings with the Marquise another assignment for the French state by bonds to finance military expenditure during During his visit he was reacquainted with their five-year-old daughter Sophie in exchange in London. Teresa refused to part from Sophie but offered Back in Paris, Casanova introduced the boy and the marquise effectively adopted him as her soul into his. Despite the lottery money, Casanova was once especially after his patron, de Bernis lost 1758 and was made a cardinal and sent to Rome. Casanova was increasingly relying on the marquise her quest for eternal youth. During the early 1760s, Casanova persuaded her reincarnation that amounted to little In 1762, he tried and failed to conceive a in the marquise's presence. The following year, while in Marseille, he Gaetano's mistress, a dancer called Marcolina, the marquise himself while Marcolina danced The marquise agreed to this even though Casanova so her soul could inhabit the body of the Unsurprisingly, the marquise failed to conceive that Casanova's mystical claims were nonsense. Casanova's connection with the Marquis d'Urfe Jean-Jacques Rousseau in 1759, and the famed The two men exchanged opinions on Italian when Casanova - still on the run from Venetian the most liberal cities in the world. Although Casanova presented himself as Voltaire's to the Catholic Church and would later criticise In 1760, Casanova began to refer to himself title that happens to be an anagram of "genitals." In addition to his work for the French government to the German and Swiss cities of Cologne, before his meeting with Voltaire near Geneva. Casanova's frequent travels have encouraged by the French government, though there is For the next two or three years, he travelled to add to his list of amorous conquests. During the winter he was in Florence, where met his sixteen-year-old son Cesare Filippo. In Rome for Christmas, he was granted an audience He gifted the Vatican Library a valuable book the Order of the Golden Spur, which allowed In January 1761 he was in Naples when he met to the impotent Duke of Mantalone. His attempts to seduce her were abandoned widowed Anna Maria Vallati and that Leonilda He re-established intimate relations with two discussed marriage, though the latter in Naples. As Casanova travelled back north up the Italian city of Augsburg, where he had agreed to represent congress to discuss terms to end the Seven By the time he arrived he discovered that him to return to France and Italy. While in Turin in September 1762, he met and Baron Warkworth, who was in Italy on a Grand When Casanova returned to Paris in May 1763, a couple of letters from Teresa Imer in London, her Dutch lover Cornelis de Rigerboos. Casanova accepted her invitation to visit son Giuseppe and the jewels he had been given Casanova arrived in England on the 11th of that he called on Teresa at Carlisle House parties and concerts for an aristocratic clientele. Teresa had built up a rather respectable social that Casanova and his Parisian habits would After a few visits to certain English courtesans, lover who shared a common language. On the 5th of July he took out an advert in seeking to rent out accommodation in his Pall expect "some peculiar advantages" as part The woman eventually chosen was a Portuguese as "Pauline," and the two engaged in a Portugal in early August. Casanova also shared his premises with ten-year-old her off to a boarding school in Hammersmith. Having wandered through Europe rather aimlessly Casanova attempted to establish roots in London In London, he was reacquainted with Marie he had met several years earlier in Paris. She had been kept by Francesco Morosini, the set her up in Chelsea. Nevertheless, when they went to bed the relationship that Marie Anne wanted Casanova to forgive Though he agreed to do so, she continued to her violently before swiftly repenting. Casanova was briefly detained at Newgate prison innocence. He exacted his revenge by buying a parrot, is more of a whore than even her mother," near the Bank of England. Short of money, suffering from depression left London to resume his adventures across and his cabbalist connections. Casanova had failed to sell a lottery scheme the Great of Prussia in Berlin through an George Keith, who was then serving as a Prussian Casanova's initial meeting with Frederick he regarded the lottery as a swindle on people Despite these remarks, Frederick allowed Casanova's lottery. Several weeks later, the King offered Casanova school, instructing the aspiring aristocratic but the Italian turned it down. While Casanova was making himself known to by a couple of old acquaintances to go to After leaving Berlin late in the year, he of December 1764 and took a house on the fashionable and the city's main thoroughfare of Nevsky Founded by Tsar Peter the Great in 1703 on the Venice of the North, St Petersburg was of Casanova's visit. The thirty-four-year-old Empress Catherine had only been on the throne for two years husband Peter III. Through Italian dancers at the court theatre, including Ivan Yelagin and Nikita Panin, as close friend and advisor. Although Casanova first saw the Empress at on the night of his arrival, it would be several In early 1765, while meeting with his friends encountered a peasant girl and arranged to roubles. He named her Zaire after the title character He also taught her Italian and bought clothes fixture along the Millionnaya. On one evening, Casanova decided to leave Russian officers and a Frenchwoman he designated night. Among the officers present were the brothers elite Preobrazhensky Guards. The seventeen-year-old Pyotr was known for time in his life Casanova suspected that he as a soldier. Pyotr rose to the challenge by undoing his When Casanova returned home he was attacked him to take her to Moscow. After a week sightseeing in Russia's old Casanova awaited an invitation from the Winter Following a suggestion from Count Panin, at experienced its"white nights," the midsummer Summer Gardens to intercept the imperial party, During his first conversation with the Empress, At their second meeting, Catherine asked Casanova in Catholic countries, and the Venetian was more effective means to keep dates aligned Catherine considered adopting the new calendar subjects, and on their third meeting ten days had been briefed about the differences in Western churches. Although Casanova hoped for an appointment his lottery, he met the Empress on one further After leaving Zaire with the Italian architect well-known landmarks in St Petersburg and on the 1st of September and arrived in the Casanova was armed with a letter of introduction statesman and cousin of the new King of Poland, his elevation to the elective crown in 1764 former lover. In addition to audiences with the King, Casanova with wealthy aristocrats. On the 4th of March 1765, five months after performance at the royal theatre and went One of them, Anna Binetti, was angered that prevailed upon her lover Franciszek Ksawery Infuriated at being called a "Venetian poltroon," a pistol duel in which both were wounded. News of the duel reached the King, who ordered de Seingalt" was not a nobleman and that Casanova was obliged to leave Poland and departed The duel only served to enhance Casanova's would become good friends with Branicki. After leaving Warsaw, he stopped in Dresden before moving on to Vienna and various German In the late summer of 1767, he was taking he ran into an old acquaintance, the Marquis and was left helpless with his young pregnant The gallant Casanova took Charlotte to Paris the process. While in Paris, Casanova learned that his years old, and his prospects further deteriorated either by the Marquise d'Urfe's family Casanova therefore chose to go to Spain, where from the real Conde d'Aranda, the Spanish down. While he was getting himself into increasing 1768 for carrying hidden pistols. His fortunes did not get much better after only to run into further trouble later in by two men. After killing one of the assailants with his forty days. Leaving Spain after his release, in early France suffering from poor health, which he During a four month stay at Aix-en-Provence, in town, and the latter sent her housekeeper Casanova resisted calling on her until he on the road to Marseille. When he learned from the very same housekeeper leftave a letter for her. In Henriette's reply, she told him that but he failed to recognise her, remarking She added that she was now a widow and rich any money. While she warned against him returning to and Casanova claimed that they continued to though these do not survive in his archive. According to Venetian files, Casanova had Venetian authorities since the 1750s, and his native city. Although he had begun working on an Italian writing a history of Poland, he turned to on the government of Venice subsequently known Though Casanova praised every aspect of the response after sending a copy to Venice in At the Tuscan port of Livorno in January 1770, whose brother Grigory had been Catherine the to fight the Ottoman Turks. Casanova declined Orlov's invitation to Russian naval victory at Chesma in early July peninsula. On his way to Rome, he found himself travelling happened to be a close friend of his daughter Though Casanova managed to win Betty from that he had to pretend to be her father in Casanova proceeded to Naples, where he seemed Before leaving, he made sure to visit Anna now in her mid-twenties and married to an Anna Maria informed Casanova that she did of giving her a child. The conversation set the context for an incestuous the garden. A few weeks after Casanova left for Rome in pregnant. Back in Rome, he re-established contact with access to young nuns. Casanova admitted that the older he got, the if they were related to him. In Rome he met Mariuccia, a woman with whom birth to a daughter, Giacomina. Giacomina's music teacher happened to be Giovanni, and the mother of their daughter, Mariuccia arranged for the four of them to girls were sleeping naked in the same bed. Although this Casanova refrained from any was happy enough to do so with Guglielmina After a six month stay in Rome, Casanova continued He continued to work on his writing projects political history which was eventually published While in Trieste, he re-established contact espionage activities on their behalf. This enabled him to receive a pardon from return to his native city after nineteen years. Casanova's memoirs, written during the final details of his life after that year are therefore On the 14th of September he returned to Venice including Angela Toselli and his ex-fiancee Though Bragadin had been dead for several to stay at his palace. Casanova published three volumes of his translation abandoning the project due to lack of interest. By 1776, he resumed his work with the Venetian month. In the summer of 1779 he met a seamstress, her family and the two lived as a respectable Casanova was once more forced to abruptly with the nobleman Carlo Grimani over the terms Casanova responded by writing an allegorical other things, claimed that he was the son His efforts to make amends after realising he left Venice on the 17th of January 1783. By September, Casanova was staying with his Franklin, the American ambassador to France. In 1784, Casanova obtained employment as secretary in Vienna. When Foscarini died in April 1785, Casanova ended up as librarian to Count Joseph Karl modern-day Duchcov in the Czech Republic, Casanova made frequent visits to Prague, where fellow Venetian with a reputation as a libertine expelled from his native city. The two had known each other in Venice and had achieved success as the librettist to Marriage of Figaro. Mozart and da Ponte were commissioned by the and the latter chose the subject of the legendary Although da Ponte and Mozart discussed the latter offered some verses of his own, they the opera premiered on the 29th of October. In Dux Castle, Casanova wrote prolifically, In 1787, he wrote an account of his dramatic decades earlier. He wrote about philosophy and mathematics lotteries. His Icosamercon, a five-volume science fiction among his unfortunate friends who read it. Instead, it would be Casanova's memoirs, unfinished at the time of his death, which after its publication in 1820 in German translation Although he is best known for his love life, valuable and insights into 18th century European politics, food, theatre, fashion, religion, In November 1797, Casanova planned a final by Napoleon Bonaparte's French revolutionary of Venice after 1,100 years of existence. Casanova's health prevented him from making died at the age of seventy-three, leaving Giacomo Casanova is best known as one of history's to be associated with seduction and sexual While there is much to support this view in in later age to share his bed with lovers whom were actually his daughters, Casanova commentators, having moved in European high his humble origins. His lifestyle, while extraordinary, was not out is the emotional impact of many of his Born into a theatrical family in Venice, until employment and over the course of his life lover, spy, mystic, financial salesman, diplomat, While he spent most of his life heavily indebted a combination of charisma, intellectual knowledge patrons who supported him financially throughout Casanova embodied Venice and 18th century a year after the extinction of the Venetian Casanova's world was not about universal theatres, masquerades, balls, salons, and What do you think of Giacomo Casanova? Does he deserve his reputation for sexual judged by the standards of his contemporaries? Should he serve as an inspiration to live a warning of the dangers of living life without Please let us know in the comment section watching.