The Galloglass were some of the most fearsome selected carefully only from the strongest, these warriors decisively shaped Irish history The Galloglass were an elite warrior infantry, suited for protection duty. Starting off as coasts of northwestern Scotland, they evolved Their family networks provided all of Ireland English knights. In this video we explore who the Galloglass were, what made them so In 1166 Dermot Mac Murrough (Diarmait mac deposed by the high King of Ireland Rory O'Conor for help to recover his throne and received loyalty to the English king Henry II. Dermot Mac a deal with the devil. More and more Englishmen in October 1171 King Henry landed with an army to called the Anglo-Norman invasion of Ireland. The terrible war of conquest. And worse even, they trained troops to cope with the Anglo-Norman upon the GalloglassANM . These warriors originated the island and coastal regions of Scotland's multitude of small settlements and was a melting brought about sturdy and weather-beaten people, Although foreign mercenaries as such the Galloglass are first mentioned in the Some of them already resided in Ireland, the bone, and many had military experience from The Galloglass differed greatly from other In the late medieval period, lords normally relied light cavalry. Both were well suited for the fighting that characterized warfare in early no match for Norman men-at-arms and not suited common. Outmatched Irish light troops were facing on foot and on horseback with sword and lance. of troops. Hiring the Gallowglass was a sensible the Irish resistance quite a bit. Nevertheless, Irish dynasties and Anglo-Irish lords. As war and again found pay from different masters, Thanks to Blinkist for sponsoring this video. insights - they call them blinks - quite a it to update my brain on books I have read in it recommends you more and more content, so well. For me this combines entertainment and chance to discover new ideas in a very brief minutes. This allows me to understand the ideas the dog or driving in my car; after all there are read or even remember all of them, Blinkist covers 27 categories, including for example Science, the light of the upcoming Memorial Day, On Homecoming and Belonging&quot; by Sebastian Junger. why humans desire community and belonging. into society and finding a sense of belonging poses a great challenge and is a topic that is Blinkist offers a 7-day free trial by using our link which you'll find in out now because the offer is only The Galloglass proved they could put up with of Ireland by Robert the Bruce (ausgefuhrt Scottish independence. According to the historian potential of this new kind of warrior and really rise was quick: Within a century they evolved from The expert on medieval Gaelic Ireland Luke hereditary professional kindreds whose branches Over time Galloglass families formed family service, became attached to noble patrons, compete with each other. Their commanders, to lords and were granted possessions and land professions in the service of Gaelic aristocracy, than 1400 they had become part of the feudal From the 14th to 16th century, the Galloglass were in Ireland. In peace they formed an impressive The demand for such warriors skyrocketed and the English government of Ireland too. Soon every that a lord without his own Galloglass was simply spreading of the galloglass kindreds all over themselves were soon too few in number to cover to Gerard A. Hayes-McCoy, the historian who laid only supplied the upper echelons of their ranks their forces were mainly recruited from the local Unfortunately, the historical records of a fragment of any galloglass training of how a recruit would acquire the expertise Nevertheless, there must have been a In the 16th century several sources mention things age of 16 years and be continually practised the father instructing the son, or So, the Galloglass were real military families in a close-knit environment to become warriors that this form of training was inherently galloglass of the 16th century were still so At this point it is important to note that much galloglass is from English sources written in the The English poet and writer Edmund Spenser, for jacket under a shirt of mail, which goes down to One contemporary image of the appearance of the Galloglass has been created by no The artist identified these men simply but historians agree that the painting shows two All things considered, the written and account of the Galloglass. They characterize wearing a shirt of chainmail over a linen shirt, axe. This battle axe is consistently stressed certainly used a range of weaponry from spears sidearms. By the mid-16th century, the galloglass weapons of the Galloglass were produced by local but typically they had long handles, Wielding an axe effectively is a difficult skill force at the same time to inflict serious damage, only be achieved by extensive training with high The Galloglass were organized into battles 180 or more when including their Each one was accompanied by at least The squires carried some spears or a bow and as skirmishers. As long as they existed, impressively, they were reportedly able to bring According to the historian Muriosa Prendergast, As raids and ambushes continued to make this was probably the most common fighting parties relied on surprise. In this scenario, the the Galloglass stood their ground and covered with counterstrikes and pursuers. In battles, the that is a strong, tightly packed formation in ground stoically, they provided shelter for light latter reached out from this safe place, throwing On the offensive finally, a battle of amount of destructive energy. After they fell back and the Galloglass charged forward Usually, the fighting was short and fierce. a defensive screen, allowing their this could end badly, as their heavy equipment As the Galloglass served lords of any of different branches of the same kindred professional obligation usually overruled ideal mercenaries. They were formidable warriors, This, however, came at a price. Like all for free. When hired for sporadic offensive lion's share of the spoils as well as board and tenantry, which was usually not a pleasant When a battalion of galloglass was needed over function, a more formal arrangement was needed. became hereditary, for example the MacSweeneys, land in return for fighting men. In many cases livestock or other goods, and in the 15th and 16th standard at all. When long-term vassalage to one remuneration replaced one-time pay for short the weapons and appearance of the Galloglass into the 1580s, while fighting techniques The Galloglass increasingly served in greater who fielded Galloglass against Galloglass. Probably the most famous battle of the Galloglass Irishmen, the battle of Knockdoe in 1504. At a Galloglass kindred, two armies largely made of the hill of the axes, some 13km outside of 'the greatest battle fought by these professional Gerald Fitzgerald (Gearoid Mor), Earl of Kildare of the hill of the axes, the bunch of which put his ambitious brother-in law, Ulick Burke of Burke and his allies brought about 4'000 men, most they finally came in sight and without stopping, The heavy infantry pushed forward through a hand-to-hand combat. Only after a while did the begin to show as they slowly enveloped the men axes and mail were tainted red and the ground was had no choice but to retreat. As the earl's men had his brains beaten out with the shaft of a a handgun in Irish history. So, it is during the might have made a first appearance in Ireland. boom in the service of English-born administrators Anglo-Irish lords to the English crown. But then increasingly relied on long pikes and handguns, face of gunpowder weapons and regular armies made fighting skills of the Galloglass were of little needed to face an army the English queen Elizabeth hand-picked elite infantrymen in the modern were all about discipline, drill and numbers. becoming a Patreon. We're trying to reach help us cover the cost of the