-There are destinations and more a state of mind, where a fragrant carpet and reminds us to stop It's a place of old pioneers. [ Whip cracks ] And new pioneers but know their own This is where hard work and where the beauty This isn't just hill country. This is Texas Hill Country. I'm Samantha Brown, and I've And I'm always looking the experiences, the people who we're really a part of a place. That's why I have and why these are Samantha Brown's -Texas Hill Country's It is this beautiful, and south Texas, bookended by two Austin and San Antonio. So this has always been a really you know, for the city folk. But I am here to see of Texas Hill Country. I mean, this to me because in the same way to see the cherry blossoms, to see the tulips And I have timed fields of blue bonnets. That's the Texas state flower. The moment I see, like, together in a field, I'm, like, pulling this over, brakes, I'm getting out, That's all I wanted to do. I need to frolic in a fields Some of the most charming are the country schools Each one of the 12 is different are on the National Register These one-room schools were who settled this area and believed strongly in public This is the Rheingold School. It was built in 1900, but this isn't the first That is the first A cool thing to know about these keep the door unlocked so you can walk right in Oh. Oh, this is precious. Grades one through eight Of course, just one teacher, had to bring so they could heat the school But these schools remain a real vital part As you can see, and that's because the community They have meals together. Weddings are held here. So even though this is it's still very much here in Texas Hill Country. And the most endearing story about what happened when they were really was that the children but they were [ Speaks German ] - Oh, the wind blows A river from on high Sighing down the mountain Rushing through the pines -Now, there are blue bonnet no trespassing especially when you see Got to put me in a field Here we go. And be kind of the flowers. Don't sit or walk on them. Find the gaps to walk through, [ Camera shutter clicks ] Say a little thanks -In Texas, this is Everybody gathers There are generations that their children, their grandma. -Every Texas child in a field -If you don't have a picture around your children you may not be a Texan. -[ Laughs ] -I'm John Thomas, and I'm a fourth generation -John is founder and president It's the largest working in the United States with over 200 acres Yep, those are all wildflowers. I had no idea I didn't know that people I thought that wildflowers and you either saw 'em, But here, you get to have a little bit more You can count on 'em here. -We knew we were gonna have a -And when you say crop, you're You're going for the seeds. As a rule of thumb, 30% to 40% of the total seed we're doing well. -Can I ask you a dumb question? -What do you collect What type of machinery? Because these are delicate And I see big, Is it just -You have to understand. This plant is a true annual. This plant is gonna These will be brown. So you're really not running -Oh, okay. -We're running over or gathering brown -So this has to be one of I've ever seen. Your heart swells, and it feels like It's just beautiful. -This is what people are after. They want some dynamite color. -Are poppies native to Texas? -No, no. And this is a poppy that and our veterans you know the poppies for the remembrance? -So there's no coincidence right on the highway -It's a pretty nice sign, -[ Laughs ] -That's exactly right. Somebody asked me the other day, &quot;Why do you always plant I said, &quot;Well, it fills -[ Laughs ] -Wildseed Farms attracts more Some leave with seeds, but they all leave for these beautiful wildflowers. -We say Texas puts on the And you've seen that. You're driving miles and seeing big We just happen to have it -Wildseed is close to in Texas Hill Country -- There's a rural charm to many and it's a very popular And even though it was founded it's also home to the National which makes more sense when you was the home of the Commander of the But an old town can still have some new So in a span of five years, opened up a restaurant, -In quick succession. -It's just hard to believe. -Have you slept? -Nope. Meet Evelyn and John Washburne, the owners one of the newer -What did you want to accomplish -You know, a lot of German food and so we just wanted to the regionality But still stay within the local -But we don't necessarily of Germany itself. With John's travels, how Germanic culture isn't just, you know, concentrated It's scattered all over Europe. -This is obviously But this isn't There's a lot of work -That's my favorite there's so many Making the sausages. We grind all the meat in-house and we have a different And sometimes we'll do something Like, we have a curry bratwurst Indian spices as a little Berlin street food. How long does it take -Maybe one or two weeks. -One or two weeks? -Yeah, the beauty of it is And time, you just wait. You weigh it down. -My mom, Elsie May, from makes me -- For the last pork chops and sauerkraut My mom visits me and puts it to travel to make it for me So for me, sauerkraut Could Otto's be anywhere else? Or did you really want it to be -It has to be here. It fits really well with the Texas German tradition. I think it just really and it worked out really well. -It's been really interesting evolve and change. Because when I was little, it It's not like it is now always just being abuzz, are definitely a new addition. But, you know, at the end of the there's still that hospitality. It's really fun to see moving back into the community and kind of keeping some but also innovating What's harder, [ Laughs ] -Depends on the day. -And these are just two of 'em. You don't know, do you? -Climbing trees at the back -That's the good thing We're never gonna lose 'em. They can't really get out. They don't shoot out -I'm Carl Money, and I grow wine -Carl and his wife Frances own Pontotoc is the town where about 60 miles north of their This is quite the little gem -I mean, there's people that have lived in They say, &quot;I had no idea -I had no idea, yeah. -'Cause you have this all the way around it, unless you get on your That's what I wanted. We wanted places very family- where you could take your family really learn about grape growing what we have to offer here. -Now, what are you known for? With all the wineries and there's quite a few of them, tasting rooms right here -Sure. -What do people -It's very high quality Tempranillo based wines. -And the Tempranillo is -It's the only grape -This is it? -You do one varietal? I only plant Tempranillo, -And why is that? to grow in anywhere in Texas, but most importantly I grew up on a farm, and then my family and they still are. My parents, my dad's They still own and I want my children where the know and have a strong work ethic. They're getting it already, My oldest daughter, Harper, -How old is she? -7, okay. the 5-year-old, and then -- And they get a quarter 'Cause you got to bring 'em -You send your children -That's right. That's good. -And they're very good at it. If I walk by and see I'd be, like, -Why not? No, they enjoy doing it, People, I think, appreciate And they feel comfortable. -It's a new day and time I'm making my way south to the city of New Braunfels, just 32 miles from San Antonio, and even though it's a part that's not the way it feels. New Braunfels was the very first German immigrants arrived while Texas was still From here, the Germans moved on to found Fredericksburg So when people talk about as having a strong it all began right here. -I'm Terri Cocanougher. I'm a great, great, great, of one of the founders Pierre Marglin. -Terri also owns and runs which has been here So this is one of those so delighted I mean, this is the exact in another country. We do a little bit but for the most part, everything we do is something A family heirloom, a memory. We make wallets. We make gun holsters -What's a scabbard? -Oh, a scabbard is We're starting because a lot of women they want to pick the style. So we do primarily -Chaps are one of those things &quot;Oh, I want to get And then you realize, -They have such great -Absolutely. -But unless you're walking in the brush or something, But then we've got he who really wants to show off. -Whoa. -So you put this -Yes, you wear it like a -- Like that. -And usually they'll have two, -No one would mess with me. -So this is absolutely [ Laughs ] -People generally have the wrong They're not used on the cattle. They're used to make a noise -Oh, okay. -So you crack it around and it gets their attention, -I have 4-year-old twins. I'm gonna buy two of them. -[ Laughs ] most of them are used these days and we sell a lot to Las Vegas. Our biggest distribution is -Oh, really? -And people really like It's just sort of a hobby thing. [ Whip cracks ] [ Laughs ] -This is Opie. and he knows how to use it. -Turn around get really close. [ Whip cracks ] I'm gonna keep -It won't reach Might reach some, but... [ Whip cracks ] -The German immigrants to the Texas Hill Country. The German music, the German in the Texas Hill Country It makes New Braunfels that the cultures and that we love -If you were two doors down that had a 100-year-old would you pass it by? Me neither. What time do I have to be here to get fresh strudel -Usually right when we open -What's the other time to get hot strudel -[ Laughs ] -Naegelin's Bakery was by Edward Naegelin Sr. in 1868. The Naegelins and their children and delivered their goods Their descendants when they sold it Ross Granzin was just Now he and his brother and their kids are which includes of the Naegelin's How much strudel do you -Oh, wow. It's about two foot long. It's probably 60 to 70 a day We have cherry and peach, too. -Did it just start as apple, and then you incorporated -Yeah, 'cause people, cherry strudel or peach?&quot; I said, &quot;Well, we can do that.&quot; -Some German somewhere is going, It's an apple strudel. Your strudel recipe is sort of a 100-year amazing recipe -No, it's too good to change. -Yeah, we've been having Hey, Parker, bring me -Oh, my gosh. -You think that'll work? Oh! That's strudel. -This is my son, Parker. -Parker. Samantha. So you're a part -Yes, ma'am. -Yes. -4:00. -You come here at 4:00 -Yes, ma'am. -And then go to school? -Oh, dad, really? [ Laughter ] -If you had a chance from a 100-year-old recipe, would you pass it up? Me neither. Within the city of New Braunfels and the likes of Willie Nelson, and the Dixie Chicks because this is the site of In 1975, you and your partner -- found Gruene Hall. And you were You should have been thinking but you were really Why? scene was flourishing here. Redneck rock was a big deal, -I'm Mary Jane Nalley, -So, Gruene Hall was built when this was As what? -It was built as It was built as a dance hall. It was the core of this that Henry Gruene had started, and he had all He needed a place for them to come on the weekends They go across and buy their They'd spend the night and they'd come and dance and wake up in the morning and have coffee -So, one thing I'm really hoping is that I get spun around -Okay, we can do that. Is it improper to ask -It's not. a nice-looking gentleman in -Yeah. -You might want to check him out to make sure he can dance. [ Laughter ] -And do you like to dance? -All right, well let's -Okay, sounds good. -All right, everybody, Thank you so much We're the Hot Club of Cow Town We want to just go ahead -In a Texas dance hall, they spread cornmeal It makes the twirling a little easier So I'm just gonna do this here. Is this good? A little more? Okay, and we're ready to dance! -One, two, three! [ Country music playing ] She'd send me flowers Make it like you love me -There's just such excitement because this wasn't And yet when you walk through You feel like, I've been here. There's a comfortability Why do you think it resonates -I just think it's a place You can let your hair down. When you walk into this place, people talk about it There's this feeling and there's this intimacy between the performer And it's really symbiotic. The artists feel it, too, and that's why because they get to be I mean, how many artists that play here now get to be Not very often. And how, as a patron, do you get -Not very often. really special about this place. I go to the mountains Picking bluebells -So I was watching you You're really impressive. -Whoo! -How long have you been dancing? -Basically all my life. I grew up in a family of people And I just love it. Every heartache we have in life, and every challenge you can bring it, you dance it. -[ Laughs ] -And I'm careful about people. I'm very alert about Once in a while, I grab I didn't want to grab, -[ Laughs ] -That's it. Okay. I'm going in. Don't you know I loved Brighter than the sunshine -People in know how to have a good time. They like to have a cold beer. They like to get They like to dance -You can count on being honest -They respect the old ways, to see them and enjoy them. It's a very happy place to be. -It's like walking back in time, There's a new dynamic here and really making businesses -And they're glad you're here they're here. Gone to the mountains -When you drink a cold beer after dancing when being in makes your heart when you enjoy by the area's first settlers, that is when we share and that's why is a place to love. [ Cheers and applause ]