Around 1500 the Cossacks gained momentum to forces for the eastern European world. They called Eurasian steppe their home: a wild region full deserves to be called wild east. By the time the become political no man's land. Previously a remnant of the Mongol empire but the Golden completely at the end of the 15th century. This between the rivers Volga and the Dnieper which But the area was not uncontested. There nomadic tribes who all saw themselves as Entering the political stage were the Kazan, however, another ambitious up-and-comer laid drastic change in the political landscape made the Out of the Eurasian steppe came nomadic raiders, Some of them are known as Tatars. Their prime great profits on the booming slave markets of thousands of people would be captured by with fright and fear, the people living near but their long and slow columns of wagons Many of them did not make it - and those because the Tatar raids reached far into the Muscovy and the Polish-Lithuanian because of their long southern borders, neither In 1500, Tatar raids reached as far as and in 1510 they even got to Vilnius. As late as Moscow outside the Kremlin. Understandably, the homeland of these fearsome Tatar raiders. This Freebooters, adventurers and bandits moved out to and this was the world of the Cossacks. It is hard to describe who or in simple terms. Historians have called them from adventurers and national heroes to is clear they were among the few daring people who so because of desire for adventure, independence outlaws or fugitives who were seeking They were not one ethnical group but represented languages. What being a Cossack really meant, "Qazaq" from which the word "Cossack" most both mean positive and negative things such as The name of the country Kazakhstan originates from of the free or land of the bandits, depending historians that being a Turkic Qazaq meant to plundering within the steppe and its periphery in being a Viking. But what most English-speaking was not Viking , one did Viking - in old Norse So the terms "Qazaq" and "Viking" refer to a Much like Vikings, Cossacks were well versed in historian Andreas Kappeler, who is professor University of Vienna, notes that the Cossacks were before gradually becoming the renowned In any case, another thing is important to They thrived in the no-man's-land between the the steppe. These towns were fortified and served Eventually, sometime between 1400 and 1500, some as it offered riches beyond belief. At first, such length of a summer. Spring after spring, these One tempting reasons to go on that dangerous brimmed with fish. But there was more: honey as lucrative as nowhere else, especially however, not the only thing waiting in defended the fruits of their lands. Entering the Gradually the Cossacks grew in confidence they started raiding the Tatar settlements around Tatars, this became so bad that one of their Muscovite government claimed that they themselves A Muscovite letter to the Crimean Khan said: "Many who are thieves for you are also thieves for both for settled polities like Muscovy and Besides fishing, hunting, gathering and began to trade with the Tatars. More and more, intermingled with Tartars, learned their way steppe. Part of this was naturally occurring Another major factor was that Cossack This was of course not sustainable over time, Tatar women from the steppe. This was not made use of an old tradition of the steppe We don't actually know when and how women but it is likely to have happened in the first raiding the surrounding nomadic tribes. would start staying in the steppe all Why venture back to the towns where they had to to do their business? The vast grassland and the dangers of the steppe became more This development created a new kind of with and adapted to the steppe. The trade of In the middle of the 16th century, the Cossacks periphery of the steppe. While still speaking many ethnic backgrounds, they gradually began to This self-perception was strengthened by the government also started to perceive They were impressed with the Cossacks' ability something both the Polish and Muscovites As the Cossacks developed an identity as a first permanent strongholds, usually referred and Don. Situated just beyond the rapids of for such a fort. A few islands in the river Here, eventually, the famous Sich, the focal The Cossacks who lived here became which literally means the Cossacks beyond traced at the lower Don where several All of this happened much to the discomfort of the famous Russian Tsar Ivan the Terrible that fortresses and collect dues from Azov and do not replied: "There are none of our Cossacks on the live on the Don without our knowledge. but our people cannot get them." increasing grain prices in Poland-Lithuania and These unfree peasants fled in search of So, Cossack communities popped up along the major Poland-Lithuania, Muscovy and the Cossack On one hand the big states needed the Cossack raids. On the other hand they were a constant manpower with every serf leaving for a new life means to subdue the Cossacks, so they tolerated money and food. Eventually, there were also so their movements could be traced and they The states, however, only really intervened For example, there was never a proper Cossack control this region themselves and thus The Volga was vital for the muscovite ever since the Muscovites conquered the In other regions, for example around the Commonwealth tolerated, even welcomed the by intense military activity directed The Cossacks, unlike their Tatar counterparts, established themselves as a force to be reckoned They raided Ottoman and Persian cities with agile boats. No part of the Ottoman shore was suburbs of Constantinople. Azov, Tsaritsyn, built to withstand the best armies of its The Cossacks, however, were more than Unlike the Turkic Qazaqi, who had been the Cossacks claimed substantial areas around unique political structures. In stark contrast to to democracy and egalitarianism in a quite that they were passionately democratic and through the surrounding states. They gathered in Here they discussed all sorts of Everybody had the right to speak. These Officials were elected who would govern the Among the Don Cossacks the leader was known and their respective assistant was called Esaul. so whoever got the loudest cheers won. While the followed the ataman without any question. His back from a war, the assembly of the host passed uncomfortable experience to say the least. and democracy, the Cossacks developed a Tatar's. Tatar kaftans over the baggy trousers of hair on an otherwise bald head were The Cossacks used the latest tools to keep their which is why this video is brought to you by 96% of our viewers are men and we estimate that a bit further down on your body. Here, Manscaped, products enter the stage. They offer the big 3 odor zones...your body, butt and balls. from their all-in-one Performance Package 4.0, It's a waterproof trimmer. It's advanced skin trimming around the more sensitive areas of your are the Crop Preserver ball deodorant and the Crop protection. MANSCAPED really has you covered nose and ear hair trimmer. It's a wireless nose groin trimmer, so you don't have to worry about For a limited time, you get all this plus the MANSCAPED anti-chafing boxer briefs. Go International Shipping plus TWO FREE GIFTS Cossack women also distinguished themselves from both in terms of personal freedom and their gender fishing, plundering and war, which meant that In these times, Cossack women were the of life and death. They decided when to plant, head of household not only when their men were This is very unusual for pre-modern times when, the oldest son or some other male relative. This is expressed in Cossack proverbs: "a woman is "a female mind is the best of councilors". The the Cossacks for a while in the 19th century. and women, and especially the unmarried girls, wrote that in a novel, but A), it's believed Cossacks for a while and B), scholars found many The strict rules of central Russian peasant Another distinct feature of Cossack identity even daring. Where the ordinary peasant the Cossacks starred him right in The famous painting by Ilya Repin called insulting letter to the Turkish Sultan" It was only created in the 19th century and we wrote such a letter to the Sultan but for all According to the story the Sultan sent their subjugations. The Cossacks You really have to put the two letters The Sultan's letter begins with a list of titles the sun and moon; grandson and viceroy of God; The Cossacks had a good laugh at this as they "O sultan, Turkish devil and damned devil's kith devil kind of knight art thou, that canst not slay and your army eats ... So the Zaporozhians declare, the Christians." While this exact letter might that it captures the rebellious spirit of the kind of attitude led to several problems with and several uprisings against states who claimed a result of their liberty-loving and free-spirited throughout the 17th and 18th centuries. Many of the uprisings and rebellions in which For example, when Tsar Feodor died without the only possible heir was Dimitri, a child a legitimate ruler under Orthodox law. As to be Boris Gudonov, the Tsar's brother-in-law, emerged The new Tsar, Gudonov was the first who tried He sent expeditions against them and executed the Cossacks were happy to hear that eventually a and claimed that he had miraculously escaped first false Dimitri. In 1604, the Cossacks rallied risen to the throne of Russia. The Cossacks to this success but over the next 9 years became In this period, known as Time of Trouble, Muscovy other rulers attempting to gain power and the city Commonwealth. While the Don Cossacks and the the Muscovites eventually regained back control. elevated the Cossacks to the position of a The most famous - or infamous - Cossack rebellion was a son of a Cossack who had served in the Khmelnytsky got into a conflict with local dispute about a woman and property. According to Czarplinski forcibly, took Khelmnytskys goods boy in the marketplace. The child lingered in enough. Czarplinski attacked Khmelnytsky's manor Khmelnytsky on a charge of treason. Khmelnytsky Czarplinki's actions underlined a trend This particular case clearly signaled that no or form protected from unjustified attacks from In 1648 Khmelnytsky was chosen as hetman and but also a smart politician: before any major the Crimean Tatars. Their combined army defeated battles, at Zhovti Vody XY and KorsunXY. Polish-Lithuanian peasants rose up in rebellion thousands of Polish nobles, Jews, women, Children Ukrainian nobles and Orthodox priests chose the In 1649 Khmelnytsky moved to Kiev. A rebellion religious undertone here. The Orthodox church saw himself as the defender of the Orthodox anointed him as a second Constantine, in reference first name Bodan, which means God-given, all of Given these circumstances and the fact that the King was pressured into signing a contract that themselves, called the Zaporozhian Hetmanate. was at risk, especially when the Crimean Tatars were unwilling to ally themselves with the was the origin of one of the most controversial the treaty of Pereyaslav. Why is it so really have access to all the documents anymore. Only later drafts, communications Some documents that would still exist are said to day allegedly because of an order from Lenin Besides that, the treaty is used for today's harder than it could be. Today, the question is a topic that is in some sense still fought Opinions inevitably differ on this topic as both that want to see one or the other as true. In any formed hetmanate came under Russian protection Back in the 17th century, this development specifically, the Polish-Lithuanians. Because the Ukraine, a war between the Commonwealth and Russia and almost 20 years later in 1686 a the Hetmanate was split in an eastern section Russian rule . While the eastern part under under Polish rule was quickly abolished in 1699. The eastern part of the Hetmanate existed the Swedes and fought the Russians at the Hetmanate had to live with the consequences of Sich was destroyed and the Hetmanate In contrast to the Zaporozhian host, the thrive under Russian rule. But, from the Tsar's because most rebellions and uprisings had their Terek and Iaik. Let me introduce to you one of the meet Stepan Razin - a successful privateer, Razin rose up against the Russian establishment issue with exactly. Some historians such as Shane motives because his brother had been executed by reasons, many followed him because they were Russia at the time. They might not have taken the Boyars, the landowning nobles. These nobles exactly popular with Russia's peasants. When, in their efforts to convert the pagan part of the Razin's first act of defiance was a raid into the mostly belonged to Persia at the time. Razin but let it be known that he would The Muscovite officials tried to stop him but were quite happy to finance Razin as long as he Soon afterwards Razin and his men plundered their Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, and Turkmenistan. us some examples that makes clear what the Razin and his men went on a drinking binge that his journals: "(they drank) till they were all drawn down several companies and all of a sudden twelfth part or little more were left alive." Weakened but laden with Persian booty the Cossacks under the cheers of the locals. To them the To the ruling class, they were a tool Razin and his men rested in Astrakhan for six among the urban poor before they eventually Normally, a Cossack army would disband his men together. After a long winter the Russian to Cherkassk, telling the locals that Razin heard of this, rode to Cherkassk, accused and by doing so started a revolt. This went quite Tsaritsyn (modern-day Volgograd, formerly known When assaulting a major city, he usually made sure the Streltsy, the local garrison. From Astrakhan Simbirsk, where the Simbirsk Kremlin repelled When a relief force closed in, Razin attacked on knew he had to act quickly and decided to try his but the Cossacks simply branded against they had no other option than to retreat. But the many of the Cossacks were slaughtered while Later on, Razin faced another Cossack force in Razin was eventually captured. These loyalist which had formed over time. The deal, though. Its central principles of a thing of the past. Power and status could now The old freebooting way of the Cossacks was late 17th century, some Cossacks were poor, others mostly consisted of the poorer people, sometimes The rich Cossacks who captured Razin had left the broke an old Cossack rule: "s Dona net vydacha" that the Cossacks never turned somebody in. In where he was humiliated, tortured, and eventually At the time of Razin's death, the land of the The Cossacks were bitterly divided and the The elite was ready to work with Muscovy and by promises of wealth and status by Moscow the old their revolts were not yet a thing of the past. too oppressing the control of the of serf existence for the lower classes A century later, out of this climate of leader entered the stage of history: Emel'ian like the old Roman god Janus, always looked in westward, represented by its glittering court Petersburg, on the other hand it looked eastward There life was entirely different: religious minorities were repressed, So, anger was endlessly dissipating and Pugachev's uprising was the biggest revolt leadership a coalition of Cossacks, serfs and stretches of it. At first, the Russian government allowed it to gain momentum. In 1774 the revolt's By then the rebel controlledrebel-controlled mountains. But still in the same year the tide armies against the Cossacks and started to take at Tsaritsyn, Pugachev's men suffered a crushing In the end, Pugachev, was betrayed by his own men However, the Russian Empire was in a bad plague and poverty wore hard on both the Kremlin the spirit of the revolt was still afoot even During the interrogation, Pugachev was asked proclaim himself a sovereign of a state. Pugachev for criminal (vor) and raven (voron) and wittily The raven himself is still flying." In any case, dismembered on the 21st of January 1775. The proverbial raven was not flying high any would they place themselves at the forefront The time of the great Cossack revolts had come decisively and stated a deterrent example: the They were renamed to Ural Cossacks, their the Zaporozhian Host was surrounded by imperial Ironically, the Empire realized that it still them to the Empire, but their host was renamed stripped of their former power and assisted and Subsequently, free elections were impossible and de facto creating a noble class among the Cossacks Even if some of these reforms were the raven flew no more. The old As soon as the Empire had tamed the its own benefit. In the many wars of the Russian the elite skills of the Cossacks were harnessed As long as the Tsar existed, the formerly serve him. Cossacks served in pretty much Two conflicts in particular brought The Seven Years' War and the Napoleonic Wars. troops made it to Berlin in 1760, to Zurich appearance caught the eye of western onlookers. Cossacks famous in the West. When Napoleon invaded scorched-earth policy by destroying any possible This meant that the French needed long supply front. This supply system was again an easy target taught lessons in small war operations and with Napoleon himself is credited of having said: "If the whole World." An understandable statement, the Cossacks on their long way back home. as revolutionary, free spirited, autonomous well in the 19th century. In fact, Russia created Ural hosts. It is this portion of Cossack history Dressed in fur lined cloaks, and a papakha (the spears, muskets, upright on horseback - this is During this time the Cossacks were seen as a to serve in the Russian military, first for thirty to 20 years. They had to bring their own horse, received a musket from the government. In return In the 19th century the descendants of once and military duties in the name of the Tsar. In enlisted in the Russian army. The once free Raven more they found themselves on the losing side. establishing a communist regime, the Cossacks were the communist cause. Indeed, many of them fought but by far not all of them -- and some of them the Cossacks at large were seen as a potential managed to flee to neighboring countries but After Russia withdrew from World War One on the 22 effectively abolished the Cossack estate by ending privileges they had had. The Bolsheviks embarked intended to end the Cossack threat to the Soviet collectivizing all farms, the remaining Cossacks As Shane O'Rourke puts it: "Deportations bastion of Cossack identity: its human capital. isolated pockets throughout the remainder members of distinct communities capable of Those few in number who survived the first Soviet the Red Army or alongside the attacking Germans. after the war and brought to incarceration camps the regime stopped persecuting the Cossacks could have posed any form of danger. Yet -- when the Soviet Union dissolved resurged. In Russia it quickly became After the Soviet Union had gone, Russians, in of Russian culture and some found it in Cossack already started to identify themselves with the a renaissance of Cossack identity which finds historiographical interest and the recognition The Cossacks have now joined the that almost everybody looks back The image of legendary pirates, democratic became material for myth and melancholy. Much the wild east and its Cossack inhabitants have of reference for modern identities in Russia "how could we ever abandon such noble principles might just miss the mark. The circumstances that were radically different from today or even from Consequently, the corresponding societies differ It simply made no sense to live life like the study of history is not merely the study of contemplating the loss of a romanticized past, we change in our own time and think about what