- Susan G wrote get a Anyways, so that our (Intro music) (Dog barks) All right, everybody. So April 11th is National Pet Day. So you Happy Pet Day, all the pets out there. We love our animals. We but there's only one than animals, and that's reading stories about when your animals behave badly and I feel good about my animals. I can't wait. So let's see everybody's naughty pet stories. (Upbeat music) Pam wrote Scarlet, trying to act innocent. Like she's never, ever Nobody was buying it. I Oh my God it's on her head. (Laughs) She is like, what? Oh to get in there. Now she can't get out. She's like, she's like, but help me get out. That's amazing. She was like nothing to see here. There is nothing around (Upbeat music) So many Michelle sent in this photo. Let's see, I ate glittery and now I have fabulous disco poo. (Laughs) Oh my gosh. That's My daughter just got this slime thing and my son and the glitter's all over our floor everywhere. It's everywhere. You can't get it out anywhere. Anyway. Yay glitter. I hope you're happy. (Upbeat music) Okay. So this is our Here we go. Oh, I stole Alex's keys from her pocket and hid them at the bottom of my cage. So everyone after work and sit through bird poo. That's why. Awesome. Um that's funny. And I love that you called That's a beautiful bird. That's what we've learned here today people. (Upbeat music) Okay. So Tammy Colmets I don't have a picture, but we were at my mother-in-law's house for a party and had our dog with us and then it was going great until someone noticed our dog chewing on something. My mother-in-law realized it was Fred from under the bed, a adult item. Everyone was laughing hysterically including my mother-in-law. You better get it mother-in-law because everyone was laughing he was running around After three, three of us I handed the chewed up mother-in-law mortified. Oh my gosh. That's funny. And I kind of wish she had a picture. (Laughs) That amazingly funny. I love that your family was like, well. Three people trying to Come on. Oh man. You should have put in I don't know, like under the bed. Fred from under the bed. (Upbeat music) Okay. So Colleen Franks wrote our extremely angelic but named Story, as usual Oh! - [Girl In Video] Hey! No! - Just took the sandwich. - [Girl In Video] You can't eat bacon! - You can't eat bacon, and the pony's Like yes I can. Oh my gosh. Just took it right out of her, her hands. That's rude. (Upbeat music) Okay. Amy wrote, I guess the pandemic hasn't just been hard for us humans. - [Girl In Video] What What are you doing Ernie? - Oh my Gosh. - [Girl In Video] Ernie, Ernie! Ernie, you cannot drink that - Get it. Yes, you can. - [Girl In Video] No, sir. - Look at him, he likes it - [Girl In Video] Stop. - Oh my gosh. He liked it. (Upbeat music) Patty wrote my dog, Logan burnt down my entire kitchen by trying off the stove and Which set the pizza box on fire and then the rest of the kitchen. Everyone including Logan was fine. And when we fixed the kitchen, Here's the thing too. Or just, you could just put your (Upbeat music) Hope wrote, when it's hot, my naughty dog would dig up our planter and bury his butt in there to cool off. Just put his butt in it. Wait, what? Oh my God. Look at that face. That face is adorable. Can't even get mad, cause he is adorable. (Upbeat music) Okay. So Sandy wrote my little Ozzie didn't want to go for walkies outside. So he's hiding. I wonder where he is? Oh, he didn't wanna go for what dog doesn't wanna go outside. Oh my God. The see through drape. Yeah. It's sheer Ozzie. So, oh my gosh. Why? outside? Maybe it was raining. My dogs will not go It's like, it's like it's acid to them. I don't know what, It's weird. (Upbeat music) Melissa wrote, we have two parakeets who are mates who we on their own because they always come back to their cage. When she was about to lay eggs, they started making a nest. So we'd leave straw and them to make a nest with. One afternoon, I saw something strange and hairy in the bottom of their cage. They had stolen my hair extensions from my room and used it That's smart. I couldn't So I let them keep it. are you going to put today? Are you? That's amazing. You know what? It's smart. Looks like a giant hairball. (Upbeat music) Susan G wrote, get a Cause here's the thing, And we're about to, I'm about And I'm a little nervous, Our puppy will not do this. What? In all truth, if I came home to this I would probably leave and cry and pretend it Then I'd get to it later. But like that, I'm so nervous right now. I'm really hoping Charlie Brownie, our new little dog. - [Voice off screen] What is that? - My daughter named our, this is funny, It's not that funny maybe, My daughter named, named our new little puppy Charlie, the cute name Dolly and she was just not having it, and she was like, no, Charlie. And I was like, it all ends in lee I was like, what? What's And I said, wait, why, they're gonna think it's a boy maybe. You know, but Charlie's but they might think it's a boy. And she was like, who, who And I was like I am raising a beautiful, bold little girl. So anyway, so I was proud of that. And then she said, you know like from Charlie Brown and I was like, okay well how about we call Cause brownies are awesome and it sounds kind of girlish. So anyway, we're calling her Charlie Brownie, Like what? Hope my dog doesn't do this. And if so, I'll bring a picture next time. So I could show you my naughty puppy. Comment below and tell me your naughty pet stories and hit subscribe. to do it. So just lean in. All right.