Thank you to brilliant.org for supporting What if every single black hole that formed new universe? Cosmological natural selection proposes exactly to test the hypothesis. Physicists have been struggling for some time Why, for example, are the fundamental constants of the forces - just right for the emergence Tweak them too much and life, stars, galaxies, In recent episodes we explored one possible and the idea of the multiverse. If there are countless universes with different that a few exist with the right numbers for find ourselves in one of those good ones. But if you don't like the anthropic principle assured, there's an alternative. You only need to accept two things: that our universes can evolve. Our universe appears, in some sense, designed. It has finely tuned parameters that seem deliberately There's another example in nature where explanation - and that's life itself. We now know that the fantastic complexity of evolution by natural selection. Inspired by biological evolution, theoretical Natural Selection. It goes like this: the formation of a black "on the other side" in a new big bang. Those daughter universes go on to expand and daughter universes. But in their formation the fundamental constants and randomly from their parent - mutations Some of those shifts improve the daughter Those universes have an advantage in propagating ensemble of all universes get better and better organisms with helpful mutations can get better Now by happy chance there's a correlation life - both require stars. The universe that is better at making stars at making us. Seems fair enough. But is it any more than a cool story? Bro? Let's take this apart to ask two questions: First up, for any of this to make sense black This is by far the most speculative part. In fact we have no idea, and only very tentative The idea originated with one of Lee Smolin's when a black hole collapses, its mass doesn't dense singularity. Rather it sort of bounces - but unable to it forms a new region of spacetime, effectively The details of how this happens is presumably gravity. There are various proposals for how such a speculative, and perhaps we'll cover another John Archibald Wheeler expanded on the procreating constants of these new universes could be different This seems plausible - if fundamental constants highest possible energy environments, which Perhaps the configuration of the geometry - this would do the job. Inspired by this idea, Smolin added one thing: aren't randomly reconfigured but rather number of genetic mutations. If that were the case, a sort of evolution as biological evolution. We have no good reason to believe any of this has readily admitted that. The point is to instead ask: what if it's What are the consequences? And can we test them? The exponential nature of the proposed process very quickly be dominated by ones that are Any given universe may not be totally optimal its parent - in the same way that any given kind. So there's a prediction: the fundamental should be close to optimal in a given universe, black holes. In our modern universe, black holes are made There are other ways to make black holes, So we should expect our universe to be optimized stars as possible. Well is it? It's actually very hard to say, but it does Stars are formed when giant clouds of gas But in order for that to happen the gas needs zero, rather than the typical 200-kelvin temperature That cooling is extremely slow if the gas in the big bang. Heavier elements and molecules allow clouds and of these, carbon monoxide is by far the most important coolant. In addition, gas needs to be shielded from seems to require the presence of tiny particles So without carbon, oxygen, water, and chemistry black holes would form - and of course these But what about other sources of black holes? Theoretical physicist and cosmologist Alexander forever then in the distant future, quantum black holes to spontaneously appear - and outnumber those produced by stars or stellar If all this is true then the most black holes - more space means more chances for these That favours lots of dark energy generating And that is definitely not our universe. Lee Smolin has various arguments against this: can really be extrapolated to the insanely fluctuations to happen. I would also add that even if Vilenkin's regions in the landscape of possible fundamental are optimized. This would lead to multiple branches of the to producing lots of stellar black holes. And naturally we'd find ourselves on one to be the ones that favour life. But, whoopsie, I just invoked the anthropic to avoid with this whole idea. As speculative as all of this is, Smolin claims If cosmological natural selection is true, black hole production should be optimized favour the appearance of life. And he suggests there is one such parameter. But first some background. When massive stars die, they actually mostly of neutrons so dense that they teeter on the edge Black holes only form when the neutron stars Now it may be that in the cores of the most convert into strange quarks. The resulting material is even denser than star closer to collapse. And the lower the mass of the strange quark, into strange quarks. That in turn means less massive neutron stars Surely, then, if universes evolve to maximize mass should be optimized to make the cutoff as possible. Lee Smolin calculates that optimized cutoff So, if this universe is optimized for black stars more massive than 2 solar masses. And? Well, the most massive known neutron star is 2.17 Now perhaps the extra .17 can be factored into the uncertainties of the theory... Or perhaps this is the falsification we were We await Smolin's comments on this. I'd like to add my own objection: cosmological fine tuning in the fundamental constants, It tries to avoid the anthropic principle black hole production, and it's just a happy But then do we really gain anything? It just so happens that carbon and oxygen organic molecules ... but what if it was, form - or other elements that were useless to life. If we causally disconnect the selection process of life then it seems we still have to invoke Overall, cosmological natural selection is explanation for fine tuning, and one that evolution by natural selection. It also seems to give us predictions that And even though this idea is probably not that speculative ideas like this are exactly No one of them is likely to be true, but they realities - where somewhere is hidden the Or, you know, our universe's momma might be a black hole, and we live in an endlessly evolving, proliferating space time. Thank you to brilliant.org for supporting If you want to understand astrophysics you're of relativity. Brillaint.org has a course on special relativity to solve. A hands-on approach can guide you through like relativity. In this course you'll and the Lorentz transformations, and as your than light travel can break causality and To learn more about Brilliant, go to brilliant.org/Spacetime. Hey everyone, thanks for watching - your support each week is what makes this show possible. Now, totally optional, but one way to help out even more is to become a patreon contributor. Even 2 bucks a month gets you access to our Thanks a ton if you've already joined us, Big Bang supporter Craig Stonaha. Craig, contacted our friends at the large hadron hole universe. Please email us with the configuration of get it right out to you. Oddly enough it's the same shipping company at pbsspacetime.com Last week we talked about the doomsday argument there are aren't likely to be vastly more generations There were a lot of counter arguments - perhaps Many people come up with a similar objection. I'll quote Mr Fantastic, who articulated it come to the conclusion that the end of the million years from now. If we accept the reasoning of the doomsday for all of history, would come to the conclusion than later? This point it totally valid - in fact a cro-magnon doom long before the 21st century - and obviously they would be wrong. But the doomsday argument isn't saying that reasoning to predict their species doom is It says that the majority will be right - if number of future generations as past generations. And by similar, I mean within a factor of So ancient philosophers would have got it be wrong ancient philosophers to some very The point is if any given individual assumes that we're randomly sample from all generations who thought about the doomsday argument then chances are they didn't come near the start of their species. Now, the real problem with the doomsday argument would be wrong. Rather, it's that it's not at all clear that selected&quot; from all of the users of the doomsday argument. Zahaqiel highlights this trickiness in defining Step 1: Define reference class as &quot;homo sapiens Step 2: Observe that the internet has existed for Step 3: Assume self-sampling assumption makes over the duration of its existence or skewed towards Then the internet's going to cease to exist some No one highlights another misuse of this idea. To quote: &quot;What are the odds that I'm born of France. Well, from the Prince of France's perspective, the answer to that question is a probability of 1. From everyone else's perspective, the answer is a probability of 0. And this really highlights the challenge in identifying our &quot;reference class&quot; for this sort of anthropic reasoning. Now, the Prince of France knows that he's the Prince of France, so from his perspective the likelihood that he's the Prince of France But imagine the Prince of France was raised secretly in a normal French family. He doesn't know who he is - all he knows is If you ask him for the probability that he's 1 in 33 million, or whatever the male population The point is that you need to take into account prior knowledge when you're defining your reference class. Nick Bostrom has another nice example of misusing Adam and Eve really want to ... you know, Except they're afraid of God's wrath if Eve The serpent comes along and explains that of Eve getting pregnant are nearly zero. After all, it's incredibly unlikely that Adam or trillions of future humans - therefore, odds are, they can have all the fun they want without risk of spawning an entire species. But an even better doomsday absurdity was in when I realized the video is probably almost By that logic, this video is only half way