NASA's always on the lookout so the Pan-STARRS telescope Each morning, candidate objects and usually discovered to be no big deal. But on October 19, 2017, Pan-STARRS spotted an object and this time the usual follow-up showed something completely different. By October 22nd, we had enough data to realize that this object Holy cow. That's when I got the phone call, the phone call that all solar system Let me tell you how exciting this was. (Laughter) NASA's been expecting to see pass through the solar system but until now, we'd never seen anything. Our own solar system is huge, so even getting a package 4.4 light years away would take over 50,000 years. So this is a really big deal. The interstellar visitor from above the plane of the planets, coming from the direction and it passed closest to the Sun passing inside the orbit of Mercury. Now this isn't a particularly It's just much easier On October 14th, before we discovered it, it made within about 15 million miles. This is really close Now rather than call this we briefly called it &quot;Rama,&quot; after the cylindrical spacecraft in Arthur C. Clarke's classic But this wasn't quite right either, so in honor of it being discovered we consulted two experts a Hawaiian navigator and a linguist -- to propose a name. And they suggested &quot;'Oumuamua,&quot; which means scout or messenger Now this discovery but to me the most significant about the past of our solar system. The process of the birth of a new solar can be a violent and messy business. Leftover icy and rocky debris as the giant planets migrate out of which they're formed. Now have you ever felt an emotional chill, something that's so exciting Or something that's Well this was it for me. This was my wow moment. We actually had a piece of material coming close enough for us to observe. So what would you like to know the very first visitor Well, I could think of a million things, but there's what you want and 'Oumuamua was moving away In the span of about a week, it had dropped in brightness So this is about all the time to study it easily. So we had to distill the process normally a very competitive, that can take up to months -- down to less than a few days. So began a &quot;polite&quot; OK, let me not mince words. We dropped everything, working around the clock, trying to craft to send to the observatory directors. Well, good news. We got the time. Now, from a perfectly the first thing we might like to know Because after all, and we didn't know about it How bad would this have been Well, the impact energy depends on the square and the mass depends So how big is 'Oumuamua, Well, we can get this from its brightness. Now, if you don't believe me, of a firefly in your backyard to the navigation lights You know the airplane is much brighter -- it just appears faint We're also going to need to know how reflective and we don't have any clue, but it's reasonable to assume and comets in our solar system, or in technical terms, something between the reflectivity Nowadays, most of the big telescopes meaning we have to carefully develop and send them to the telescope operator, and then anxiously wait praying to the weather gods. Now I bet most of you don't have careers that critically depend on whether or not Well, we weren't going to get Because the weather was great, Its brightness wasn't constant. Now here we see 'Oumuamua It's centered in the middle. The stars are trailed out because It started faint and then it got brighter, as sunlight is reflected off The extreme brightness change led us to an unbelievable As shown in this artist's impression, 'Oumuamua is apparently with an axis ratio of about 10 to one. Assuming it's dark, Nothing else in our We only have a handful of objects bigger than five to one. So we don't know how this forms, but it may be part of its birth process 'Oumuamua was varying in brightness or so we thought. As more data started they were reporting different numbers. Why is it the more the harder it gets to interpret? Well, it turns out that 'Oumuamua It's wobbling like a top. So while it is rotating it's also rolling around the long axis and nodding up and down. This very energetic, excited motion is almost certainly the result out of its home solar system. Now how we interpret the shape depends very critically so now we have to rethink and as shown in this beautiful painting we think that 'Oumuamua So let's get back to the energetics. What is it made of? Well, ideally we would love into the laboratory, But since even private industry a spacecraft within a week to something like this, astronomers have to rely So astronomers will look at how the light Some colors may get absorbed, whereas other colors may not. On the other hand, some substances or red light efficiently. In the case of 'Oumuamua, making it look very much like the organic by the Rosetta spacecraft. But not everything that looks reddish In fact, minerals that have can also look red, as does the dark side shown in these images Nickel-iron meteorites, can also look red. So while we don't know we know even less However, we do know to not fly apart as it rotates, so it probably has a density perhaps even denser, like metal. Well, at the very least, one of the beautiful from one of the ground-based telescopes. All right, I admit, (Laughter) We just don't have the resolution. Even Hubble Space Telescope doesn't present a much better view. But the importance of the Hubble data but because it extended to two and a half months meaning we get more positions which will hopefully let us figure out So what exactly is 'Oumuamua? We firmly believe it's likely to be from the process of the birth some celestial driftwood. Some scientists think very close to a star and the star's tidal forces early in the solar system's history. Still others suggest that maybe during the death throes of a star, perhaps during a supernova explosion, as planetary material got shredded. Whatever it is, we believe but we can't actually prove The color, the strange shape, could all have other explanations. Now while we don't believe why not do the obvious experiment That's exactly what but so far, 'Oumuamua Now could we send and answer this question once and for all? Yes, we do actually have the technology, but it would be a long and we would get there so far from the Sun that the final approach trajectory So I think 'Oumuamua probably and in fact there might be as scientists such as myself More importantly, has really brought home the point We're part of a much larger environment, and in fact, we may even and not even know it. This unexpected gift has perhaps raised more questions but we were the first to say hello Thank you. (Applause) Jedidah Isler: Thanks, Karen. I of course enjoyed As I recall, we found it Will future technologies like help us detect these things sooner? Karen Meech: Yeah. We're hoping that and ideally, you'd love to find one because you want to have time or even more ideal, you'd get a spacecraft ready to go, parked somewhere in the L4 or L5 position, somewhere near Earth, so that when something comes by, JI: Awesome, thanks so much. (Applause)