Is Minecraft accurate or is real life totally Let's test 30 things and if real you have to go touch grass. Let's start with axolotls, which play dead That's pretty similar to how real ones can However, some of their squeaks in the game Mojang did put a lot of thought into axolotls like how real axolotls only eat living fish! So this point goes to Minecraft for accuracy! Cod were one of the first fish mobs added, In real life, there are four types of cod Cod in Minecraft only have TWO dorsal fins! All it would take is to remove this one pixel now this point goes to real life because Minecraft Creepers are real. Well not quite but they're very similar to out spores by building up air pressure and This stuff also contains sulphur, which was The creeper texture IS based on the leaf texture and use their explosion to spread their seeds! More realistic than you think! Good job Mojang. If the CREEPER is that realistic, I think mobs, like the ravager. This one was inspired by something from real Developer Jeb said he was inspired by the the head of a man, a lion body, dragon wings, Ah, that's why the ravager has- wait, it has Here's an early version of the ravager, with Even with the inspiration, this point goes of this world. 1.19 has added mud bricks, which have been They're made by combining mud with straw, These have been used as building materials This Mosque is the largest mudbrick structure Finally mudbricks are in Minecraft, so they Although it might not look like it, Mojang research. While making 1.18, this photo was taken of life caves! This one inspired noodle caves. With that dedication, this point goes to Minecraft! Gold tools are weak because gold is soft in Steve. This guy can carry over 62 THOUSAND gold blocks One gold block would weigh 19 thousand kilograms A BILLION KILOGRAMS. We don't know how small Steve's pockets are, boxes would collapse into a BLACK HOLE. If you think that's crazy, the facts get even Speaking of how much Steve can fit inside able to drink a milk bucket. We can fill a bucket with this much water. A bucket of milk has the exact same amount Separating all of Steve's pixels, there's to fit all that liquid inside! He either spills it down his clothes, or there's This point goes to real life. You obviously can't make a nether portal in In Minecraft, it's the second hardest block In real life, it's actually a lot like glass. When you rapidly cool lava, you get obsidian, To break it in Minecraft, you'd need 70 times just drop it on the floor, so this is probably Diamonds are one of the rarest ores in Minecraft, They're actually the most common type of precious Newly mined ones are rough and cloudy. Only the purest get polished into nice Minecrafty The rest get used for cutting and grinding. Diamonds just aren't realistic. But actually, the diamond used in the jukebox They're not only in there to make jukeboxes The recipe is inspired by how Thomas Edison phonographs back in 1910. He influenced Minecraft. That's better than inventing the lightbulb, The jukebox is more realistic than you'd think. Something about the crafting table has always It's perfectly normal that you break a giant that into four blocks, and then back into but what confuses me is where did all these Where did the leather come from? Don't get me wrong, I love the crafting table. It's iconic. Just confusing how this massive saw appears Not realistic. Mojang do change things for accuracy! Fireflies were gonna be added as food for can be poisonous to frogs in real life. They also made parrots die from cookies as I'm glad they're listening to stop people goes to Minecraft! But if that's the reason, this next one definitely We all know the saying that cats always land so cats don't take fall damage! But DON'T TRY THIS AT HOME! Even though they can usually flip over just by the fall. Mojang tried to make cats more realistic by THEY admit that's just more annoying. I don't want anyone dropping their cat 'cause to real life. Mojang! 1.20. Cat update. You'll be rich! The Wild Update's sculk shrieker block might blocks, but they have a real world inspiration! The shape of the block was inspired by the Ah 'cause it shrieks... Makes sense! Wait. A Minecraft person doesn't have a larynx! THEY DON'T EVEN HAVE A NECK! But this point goes to Minecraft for their Minecraft TNT won't destroy anything if detonated But DON'T TRY THIS IN REAL LIFE either! I don't know why you'd have TNT but if you Or anywhere really. Working underwater TNT can be made with sodium an explosive reaction when dropped in water But normal TNT should be able to explode underwater. The sand in the recipe references dynamite, Mojang didn't make it realistic, but at least Steve's a pretty good diver. This guy can high dive from the stratosphere Don't go jumping off a cliff like Steve, though. His pencil diving technique is good, but would Well, you're supposed to point your feet down and Steve... can't do this, so he'd at LEAST hurt his feet. The world record for diving was set at only and hip doing it. Diving in Minecraft is pretty unrealistic. Villagers all got stylish new outfits in the With over a hundred outfit combinations, there It turns out most of these robes were inspired The swamp villager designs were thought of Once again, Mojang get to flex their attention Rabbit's feet in real life are often believed The rabbit's foot item in Minecraft is a rare You need to be quite lucky to get one, and, much as it does in the real world! By zero percent. Yep that goes to Minecraft for realism there. Why are small animals so big in Minecraft? Spiders are two metres wide in this game. Silverfish are real creatures, too, and they're That means Minecraft ones are 53 times longer! And don't get me started on BEES! I'm surprised fireflies aren't twenty blocks Silverfish are officially unrealistic! This is a lightning rod, and this is a real You might think that's realistic BUT in real to ground or it... won't work. You can also put one on your head in Minecraft, So I'm giving this point to real life, 'cause The sky in Minecraft is NOT realistic either. Of course, they're trying to keep things simple line, but that's just not how the sky works. The moon shouldn't move exactly with the stars Real life definitely wins this point. Turtles in Minecraft can't drown, even though They do last a long time underwater thanks some turtles breathe underwater using their However they CAN still drown, though, and this, so real life gets the point for this Speaking of turtles, let's look at their eggs. Arrows won't crack one. Concrete powder does nothing. Dripstone? No match for it. Dropping an anvil on one... doesn't break POUR. LAVA. ON. ONE. Nope, the only thing heavy enough to break I'm giving the point to Minecraft just for A sea pickle in Minecraft is not that big, or as small as less than a centimetre. They might not LOOK quite like the Minecraft However, sea pickles are actually colonies in Minecraft. I'm gonna give the point to real life 'cause type of pickle. Minecraft's horses and donkeys can be bred is made when a male donkey is bred with a Swap the genders and you get a hinny, which Are all the horses in this game female? It would be cool if this were a random chance. You'd expect to breed a mule with another is realistic. Mules don't have the ability to produce offspring The material reducer from Education Edition find out what they're really made of. Glowstone, for example, contains three noble Redstone ore contains uranium, which is used It would also make redstone radioactive. Netherrack has mercury oxide, which is the Even though these blocks aren't real, Mojang In the crimson forest biome, you might hear that title is a word referring to the artificial Yep, you can find nether gold ore here so Only problem is the crimson forest is more life place. Though, the basalt deltas are based on real the nether is somewhat realistic. Rain falls out of clouds, right? So why does Minecraft rain still fall when But that's not all! When you go ABOVE the clouds in Minecraft, If you go high enough, the rain does cool cloud layer. I'll accept the clouds are blocky 'cause it's from!? Real life definitely wins this one. What is glow lichen? Is it a real thing? Kinda. There are about 20 thousand lichen species the Earth's land surface is covered in the Do they glow like in Minecraft? Many types do! Only under a UV light, though. Unlike sea pickles, lichens aren't bioluminescent. Glow lichen's close enough to real life, even gets this point, points! But in a game with zombies, portals and dragons, Yes. Now go into the real world and touch some more facts you probably don't know.