Hi everyone, welcome to cool ideas, Today, a purely mathematical video to describe It is called the &quot;hypersphere&quot; because it space. A sphere is the set of points at the same If there is only one dimension, the sphere In two dimensions, you get a circle. With the third dimension, it becomes a sphere. And what about the fourth dimension and the The problem is that in our 3D space, there Wherever you try to put the fourth axis, it three other existing axes. It's not possible to add a fourth independent One could imagine that TIME represents this We'll see later why this is not quite the Even if you can't picture the 4D space, you our 3D space. This is what we do in this video. We don't have any problem saying that these But in reality, they're drawn on a two-dimensional If you stick to what is really drawn on the the red and the green ones. The blue direction is not independent from But changing the viewpoint reveals that is lay on a horizontal plane and cannot reach We use the word "projection" because it's a direction. By changing the projection direction, we get viewpoint. A 2D screen gives us a good representation Now let's try the same thing in the hyperspace. We project the four axes into our space. The new black axis is set along the vertical The angles between each pair of axes are right When we change the direction of the projection, The horizontal plane is formed by the red The plane formed by the blue and black axes These planes are completely independent and of our coordinates system. In the 3D projection it looks like their intersection But it's an optical illusion! By changing the location of our &quot;hypercamera&quot;, We can see that what looked like the single 4D lines projected at the same place in the Now that we know how to depict the hyperspace, A circle is projected into 1D as a segment, A sphere is projected into 2D as a disk, which Logically, a hypersphere is projected as a We have our representation of a hypersphere. Well! This is a bit disappointing. Let's try to go further to understand how How do we build a sphere of a higher dimension? Let's use the following method. To construct the circle, we start from a couple dimension, above and below, with a smaller This gives a good approximation of the circle. Let's do the same for the sphere. We start with a circle and add more circles This gives a nice sphere made of rings. The hypersphere now! So, we start with a sphere and add smaller Hum, this brochette is not very convincing. What's happening? In fact the sphere we started with is not We have first to think how a 3D sphere immersed 3D space. Let's look at the sphere made of rings. These are circles but what is drawn on the ellipses, not circles! A 2D circle immersed in 3-D space is then The shape of the ellipse depends on the direction under which we look at it. Since we will switch back and forth between the time to better formalize this parallelism. We start with a 3D sphere. It is immersed into the 4D hyperspace. We then project this sphere into 3D space. Since we can't visualize the 4D space, we of each step: the 3D sphere reduced by 1 becomes It is immersed not in a 4D space The result is projected onto a 2D space, the Well, we can see that the circle plunged into an ellipse. It is still kind of a circle but flattened. A sphere plunged into hyperspace and then It's called an "ellipsoid". Now we can turn around the ellipsoid to see This ellipsoid is a view of the sphere in Turning around the ellipsoid doesn't change of the projection. We do not need to turn around the ellipse If you want to see the circle from another This changes the shape of the resulting ellipse. In the same manner by moving our hypercamera and so we change the shape of the resulting But moving the hypercamera is a bit that orient us in the hyperspace. It's already tricky enough! There is another way to examine an object: itself remains at rest. To examine our circle we don't have to go We can also turn it around in front of the To inspect our sphere let's rotate it in The shape of the ellipsoid changes by flattening It can even become fully flat and take the Weird? Not really! When you look at a circle from the side, what From this perspective, we see that a guy walking the sphere without being blocked by the surface. We know that in two dimension. A flatlander who lives in 2D can't reach the He is blocked by the circumference. But if we plunge the circle into 3-D space, It frees a path for the flatlander. He can freely walk to the center. The circle then closes back without hurting When the circle is closed, viewers from outside Let's see what happens with the sphere. We place the man on the blue axis. If we move our hypercamera we can see he's Now, let's turn the sphere about the vertical The surface appears to be shrinking, again he arrives against the surface. Still stuck? No this time ! If we move our hypercamera, we can see that to the center. Thus he isn't at the surface of the sphere, If we can go inside without passing through is an open shape in the hyperspace. But where is this hole? This is quite frustrating: we know that we we don't see the path! When we look at the projection of the circle, inside the shape. Why is the ellipsoid different? If one can distinguish the inside from the color and the lighting. Yellow is the color of the interior. The lighting gives information about the relief. But! we don't have this information on the Let's try to get them. When projecting the circle onto the screen the inside or the outside that is projected. We can easily compute this with the hypersphere. Let's see what happens. The ellipsoid becomes bicolor. One half is yellow, the other half is white. The yellow half is for the inside of the sphere If we turn the sphere around in the hyperspace, but remains always the largest circle of the It has the radius of the sphere. That's the same that happens with the circle: and white semicircle is always the largest When the ellipsoid becomes completely flat, Again, this is what happens with the circle! Can we see the inside of the sphere now? Unfortunately, no. To understand why, we need to add a column of the sphere and the one of the circle. We see the ellipsoid with our eyes. We can not see all sides of the ellipsoid We can neither see simultaneously the inside Human beings see in... 2D. On the lower line everything is 1 dimension This means that the flatlanders see only in The flatlanders' camera is a line. They see a white and yellow ellipse as a bicolor Like us, they have to go around the ellipse Like us, they can't see inside. Like us, they try to get an idea of 3D space being able to see any hole. The lighting now! The ellipsoid is enlighted but it is a 3-D If we did the same with the circle, we would The lighting of the circle is computed in occurs. Let's do it this way with the sphere. It is enlighted in the 4-D space and we capture Now there are four areas which are the four and one half external. These four areas exist also on the circle. The bright white area is both external and The dark white area is external but not enlighted. Now let's move on to the internal side. The bright yellow area is the illuminated And finally dark yellow area is the inner Just as in 3D, you can add more lights. By turning the spot light around, you can the inner and the outer surface. It looks like there are two light sources. But there's only one! In 4D the sphere has a hole through which Returning to our original question about the little brochette. But now we know that spheres have the shape By stacking these ellipsoids we get a ball It seems that the spheres are touching. But it's not the case! This is an optical illusion that can be detected The hypersphere is projected as a filled sphere An hypersphere doesn't have any surface in A sphere has a surface and an hypersphere This is a 3-D space. The surface of a sphere is closed: any straight point. Similarly, regardless the direction taken point. It is a closed 3-D space. Now that we're a little more familiar with asked earlier in the video: why time couldn't Just because you exist! &quot;Exist&quot; does mean that you are still there In a 4D spacetime your 3D shape persists all So in this space you have the shape of... The whole world is a tangle of spaghetti. So, time is certainly a fourth dimension but the hypersphere does not exist! Thanks for watching