Iceland is a country that is, and in many ways still untouched. It's a very beautiful place, after you've spent time away from it You appreciate it more. We are blessed with this incredible, These elements of fire and volcanoes It's these extremes. Maybe it makes the Icelandic people For the last 10,000 years or so, we have People come from all over the world because it is one of the few places But that's under threat now. Iceland is one of the last frontiers Our historical roots go deep If the salmon is lost, We are losing our future. This is the salmon nation. Thank you. Is that OK? Final touch. As far as I remember, really started and onto the 1980s, In the beginning, It was nice, it was very idyllic and they knew you needed to treat your animals well. Onwards, really just started to grow and they really grew into and all the time, bigger and bigger So in my opinion, when it comes to animal welfare The fact that the farmed salmon is, of course, and intensive scientific research on all the factors that are important Norway is probably more than 15 when it comes to fish farming, and we have made very many mistakes. Iceland is known for its pristine And we know from long experience now is definitely polluting the fjords And I think if the same should happen as has happened to Norwegian fjords. In 2019, I circumnavigated Iceland Something that had never been done before. It took me 103 days to go around Iceland and my life has never been The only thing I had to think about and looking at the weather. There was something And when I came back after my trip and clean up and pick up trash. And then one day I was paddling close and I saw a dead bird in a net. And I decided to take a look. I managed to get some really The more you dig into it, A lot of dead salmon Missing their head, the skin is gone. Once on the east coast, I watched them pump up 7.5 tons The salmon we have today In diverse areas, which equals something like 65 to 70 million individuals every year. That is a lot of animals. And remember that salmon So they are our responsibility. And they are a part So they should be treated Cows or sheep or horses or whatever. They should be treated exactly the same, I started surfing here in Iceland Surfing just took over Yeah, the Westfjords. It's a very special area. I remember driving here and just seeing Crystal clear, And it looked like So different When I first came here, I don't remember Then you started seeing a little bit more. And then the last four years Part of the reason You could free dive And there's usually really good visibility. But it's crazy how much It's just murky, you know. I think it is a little bit sad to put up It was just on the news They found two relatively big holes But this was big adult salmon. Of course they escaped and they've been showing up From this area all the way to the middle And they're finding fish every day. Well, you used the word catastrophe but there's no scientific merit If you take all the factors ocean-based salmon farming In one single fish farm, causing severe damage And it's also very important This is creating a few jobs There's some tax income but most of the money, I think we can live with the wild salmon, The wild salmon population There is no doubt has a very heavy impact on this Like we do in all the other jurisdictions Over the years, they have expanded and I think there's good reason based on what we have seen happening This is getting awkward. The reason that escapes from fish farms is that in Icelandic rivers and they have been adjusting for the last 10,000 years. They are all suited to their home rivers. Their genetic code depends entirely on them being able to survive On the other hand, in the net pens, These are very different These fish are originally from Norway and they have been selectively bred for to grow fat and grow big These fish, when they escape, and they breed with the wild salmon. So, effectively, what happens is that you You're taking 10,000 years of evolution and you're mixing it with genes that are And when that happens, again and again, to the point where the fish that are will not be able to survive. And that will be the end of wild salmon. There are so many other aspects that's bad for the environment. Leftovers of feed. Pesticides, which they pour The salmon lice, the parasites, and affect the brown trout, They are pumping huge amounts The feeding pipes, many kilometers The feed is pumped The pipes erode, so they're literally Then they coat the net with copper oxide. Copper is a very poisonous It breaks off the nets, falls down into It does not dissolve, so it's polluted If you have production on land if you release two kilos In the sea pen industry, they are already So right after the news broke of the escape myself and my friend Kristin and try and catch as many of these So now we're in Arnarfjordur. Just around the corner there are And we'll be fishing in Sunndalsa a river that's not far away Even though I'm very up to date it's really different to see it in real life. Looking at those small rivers and seeing plenty of farmed salmon It just makes me really mad. Yeah, that looks like a farmed salmon, He's not happy, but it's kind I'm not happy about Of course, every farmed salmon But the problem is so big that it seems But just sitting at home So maybe it's more for the soul We are seeing that we are uniting Fly fishermen all around Iceland. We are all standing together Doing everything we can. Everybody's really angry and everybody And you can really see the change because a lot of people have been But now you can really see a difference. People are fed up And they want to take them out of the fjords Iceland is, and has been for decades one of the most popular What this has done, is that it has created for the rural communities of Iceland. There are 2,250 farms in Iceland that depend on direct income from It's not only the farmers but it's also guides, drivers, All these people depend on healthy The main argument of the open-net is that they are creating jobs. They are giving life But essentially they are creating Not many, I may add... But they are risking destroying the jobs that depend on the healthy salmon stocks. So you're creating a few jobs My personal connection with the salmon is of course through my father And so he taught us about salmon, So I was very privileged. I had this I gave my father It was hard news to break It's a farmed salmon. You can see how silvery he is The fins are eroded. And here we have some sea lice, so... This is the problem we are dealing with. A small female we captured earlier on. But the farmed ones, we just kill them So we try to remove We can't cope with all of them because they are running into the river They are pollution themselves. Man-made pollution. Tragic. We came in at 8:30, been out all night. Caught an enormous amount We've never caught so many before. 21, so a lot more than the wild ones. A total disaster. It has never been like this. And it's the final warning that either or this is the end. We can always look at history and we can see throughout history that there has been this very, very tight You can look at the Icelandic sagas, you can look at the names And if the salmon has and in our language, in our nature, it must mean that it has a significance, The salmon rivers And if that disappears by stupid as it has done in many parts of Norway, I think the cost is just too high, We're sacrificing too much 'Yeah, come here. And what people don't understand is that every river It's like every river has its own that's built in a certain way. And this is the complete destruction And that is why, yes, But there's not any discussion I mean, has the world gone mad? There's nobody benefiting This is ridiculous. We're just so greedy. All these animals, We are not God. Iceland failed in creating some good, And it's the saddest story A huge company and takes our beautiful nature, and all they're driven by is money. It's not because they have this great We all know that they have already shown It's so important for all communities If they feel that the way it's been done or that they don't want something they have the power to stand up So we are meeting here Open-net farming in Icelandic fjords is not going to tolerate anymore. We want to protect our nature. We want to let our kids see the protected I want our government to know that and I want them to realize Listen to the people. Look at everything that's happening Nature. It's the most important thing If the government closed this industry now nature is so resilient, it will heal. The salmon will clean out the hybrids and they will grow strong again. But time is running out fast. If Iceland makes the right decision and saves its wild salmon, People can look to here Today we are in front of parliament and we that have been swimming The authorities of Iceland so we're giving it back to them. Follow your heart, dear politicians. For Iceland, for the world, for the future, Because that is what is right. What we feel in our hearts,