If you're an up and coming pro football player, It has the best leagues, with the is the most powerful place in football. Or is it? The two biggest players of the could argue it's because they are growing old. But maybe there is something larger at play. Miami. To a league that was But today, MLS is in the top 10. are wearing MLS shirts. Apple and Adidas Messi mania is a prime example of a superstar In 2007, David Beckham shocked the football It had a similar effect like Messi. Every Other clubs tried to copy and And MLS became known as a retirement league. inspection, it looks like this time could a larger plan. That could soon make the US one of It's a plan that involves one of the world's company and the world's biggest event. Welcome to Athletic Interest and MLS has one problem. Americans love football, just the wrong type. Take a look at this graph. American Football It's the same story when looking at And it's not like the sport isn't popular like football. But not many of them live here. It's not even in the top three most watched To understand why, we need to take a deeper Now, of course, not every fan fits the typical American soccer fan Their favourite player is Messi, they probably to have a passport than any other sports fan. But Latinos make up just 30% of MLS fans, has long struggled to win over the most Hispanics and Latinos are the A population which grew up playing football It's also the population with the MLS needs Latinos more than they need MLS. this map of MLS teams in 2015 on top of this MLS has learned from its mistakes and the south. And it has come up with a plan to a World Cup and MLS being bigger than David Beckham and Lionel Messi have met but this moment was probably the most names in football playing in MLS. When he was later, it didn't seem that ridiculous anymore. option to start his own franchise when he retired. player that Beckham always wanted to sign. He Both men have a long history of investments off From Messi's hotels and holding company, To Beckham's investments in tech Not to mention one of Beckham's longest-running investments outside of football - and His collection of high-value fine art, Ultra-rare pieces worth millions, or fellow Brits like the mysterious Banksy. Which Not all art in the market will But the kind of contemporary art outpace traditional investments Right now, using the QR code on-screen, you can Masterworks enables everyday investors investments in a few of the same artists Their art investing platform has than $60 million in investor proceeds, Masterworks recently posted from selling a Basquiat painting With offerings typically ranging from $500,000 to $20 million dollars, shares However, our viewers can skip the waitlist and The link in the description, or at But now back to our story! most important team in MLS right now, Take a closer look at the club's badge. It's they are collectively known as La even makes several references This is a club that specifically speaks to of the club was on purpose. 70% of Miami's None of this is a coincidence. MLS understood community if it wanted their support. always been the most popular footballer Messi moving to Inter Miami was about drawing as much attention as possible. Messi's shirt was Adidas' top have signed up to Apple TV just to watch Messi just replaced Michael Jordan as the But Messi is just one part of this viewers in the United States than decided to do something about that. The League's cup was started a few annual competition featuring Combining these two fanbases has worked. The Premier League or Champions League, The first three phases of this plan (Miami, Latino fans, but MLS doesn't want of the biggest leagues on the planet. The last time the United States it caused a massive increase in At that time MLS was just getting 2026 should be different. MLS cities. It also has one of the most Millions across the U.S. will be getting a ticket. MLS will be there as an alternative. Apple can help with this. The deal between worldwide with no blackouts. Anyone with an Apple MLS match, no matter where they live. That's Usually you have different national broadcasters impossible for fans from different countries to a video that is available in Germany might In our digital age, this sounds incredibly rights market works. Apple and the So the future of MLS looks promising, lesson? Turning short term hype into long term To be sustainable MLS needs to start creating Improving the overall quality of the league they will just switch over to the Premier League. initiative allows MLS clubs to sign three players the salary cap. MLS clubs can now compete market and it prevents their own talent from This appears to be working. More than half of MLS teams are also trying to develop more of Messi's children are currently Most of the youth players compete in the league that hopes to develop domestic talent. The plan is for MLS clubs to start selling Europe. If your club starts buying from MLS, It may sound odd or unlikely right now, but the most important footballing nations. It has always now it has a growing national league, one in 2026, the world's attention. nation that makes billions from a sport borders. Imagine what will happen when they get