It's one of the most unwelcoming places on earth, a desert almost devoid of human life, yet home to one of the most marvelous in Chile's Atacama Desert. Men and women are building A colossal construction site with record numbers and stakes a device and perhaps even enable us to discover forms of life While we keep our feet firmly planted on the ground for this new episode of Looking 4, Thanks to the extremely large telescope. To find your way to the construction site of this new object, The extremely large telescope, is located on the summit of Cerro Amrazones. This 3000 meter high platform is located almost 1300 kilometers from the capital, Santiago. The nearest town Taltal, is 130 kilometers away. To get there, you have to tackle the Atacama Desert, one of the driest places on the planet wedged between the Andes and the Pacific Ocean, an expanse of desert offering breathtaking scenery, a place sometimes reminiscent of the moon As far as the eye can see, a soil At least if we are to believe the statements and Space X, Elon Musk. But of all the space available in Chile, to build the world's In reality, with the landscapes of faraway stars, Here, rain is a rare, if not exceptional event. The site ensures more than 320 clear nights a year, Remote from the rest of the world, the elt is also unaffected by visual pollution Observation conditions The site is not unfamiliar. 20 kilometers away, the very large telescope has already been deployed at the moment. The VLT is considered to be the most powerful observatory in the field of visible light. But it will be overtaken by the elt when it opens. More generally, Since 70% of the world's However, there is no rivalry for space surveillance In fact, This intergovernmental organization has been in place since 1962. It brings together 16 European countries. Two other countries are associated over 65% of its budget comes from Germany, The primary ground based observatories Its equipment and researchers have already contributed to major breakthroughs in 2022. For example, of a black hole in our galaxy, the Milky Way. But the European Southern Observatory continues to push back the boundaries of astronomy In 2010, the decision was taken to build initially scheduled to go into service in 2018. It is due to be operational as early as 2028. On July 11th, 2023, the ESO announced And when it comes to contemplating the infinite the observatory is not cutting any corners. According to official estimates, almost EUR1.5 billion. It's a titanic project but rather with explosives to accommodate The summit of the cherished Amazonas a task begun in 2014. A total of 220,000 cubic meters of rock were removed once the surface had been leveled A huge concrete slab was poured Since then, between 160 and 220 people have been working on the site every day The area's low humidity so you need to drink a lot to be as close The telescope construction site UV rays are more intense, Today, the skeleton takes shape 88 meters wide and 80 meters high. To give you an idea, the Statue of Liberty reaches a height of 93 meters with its base. It could almost fit inside And there's no shortage of figures Megastructure. A new example is the weight of the dome, which totals almost 6100 tons. The domes, two doors, which will open and close according to the telescopes The whole system will be based on so that astronomers can point This impressive system will be made up of 36 huge carriages, each weighing 20 tons, running, a photovoltaic power plant around the elt. Finally, to counter the seismic risk the structure contains a double seismic system made up of hydraulic jacks and dampers But there's another danger It's difficult to wait here for the fire department To this end, tanks have been set up and filled with water in the basement to put out potential fires. All this will be used to protect the jewel The telescope itself. This will be equipped with five gigantic mirrors light to the scientists instruments. The primary mirror, a prototype of exceptional dimensions in curved. It will measure almost three nine meters in diameter, far larger than any of today's working mirrors. Even in space, it can't compare. The James Webb Telescope, a marvel of technology at the end of December Its unique position at the heart of the Milky Way to send back images that redefine our vision of space. On its website, to demonstrate the power of its new lens. The Elt mirror should collect 100 million times more light than the human eye, and even 10 to 15 times And the more light the mirror can collect, the more distant and faint images it can collect. This is essential this record breaking mirror will be made up of 798 hexagonal segments, each 1.5 meters in diameter. These elements are currently being made in Europe to improve their durability and performance They are made from zero Dur, a glass ceramic to the temperature variations They are then coated with a thin layer of silver, a material with particularly high reflectivity. Once manufactured, they will be shipped to Chile. The first 18 segments were sent to the site Once on site, they must be assembled a crucial task requiring the greatest precision, with margins calculated in hundreds of micrometers. To ensure maximum performance, The various segments will be resurfaced Two new segments Another record breaking feature of the telescope This is the mirror on which the primary mirror focuses It is considerably smaller, Yet it will be the widest Another special feature 60 meters at the very end of the telescope. The light will all of which play a part This new eye on space, as it is nicknamed, is eagerly awaited by scientists According to forecasts, the ELT the current capacity for observing our starry skies A breakthrough that should make it possible Because light doesn't arrive instantaneously, for example, This means that when you watch a sunset here on Earth, you're only observing the sun However, if we look further into the universe, and discover, for example, with its enhanced vision. This new telescope will enable us to observe learning more about its workings and history, its use will also clarify questions currently under discussion The recent discovery of exoplanets, to the commissioning of the latest But above all, the E-ELT will enable us to reach other distances in the universe. Places that have yet to be explored. Space exploration with its share of unknowns into a frenzy. With a telescope like this, we'll be pushing back a lot of unpredictable discoveries, explains E-elt scientific director Michele Shiraz Swallow. What's more, will the new telescope be able to locate a planet favorable to the development of life? The question will remain open until at least 2028, but the hypothesis is certainly on the table. However, the E-ELT is not the only new generation telescope There are two other projects of smaller dimensions, but with equivalent scientific ambitions. The first is the GMT, the Giant Magellan Telescope. Unlike the E-elt, its primary mirror will not be made up of several hundred hexagons. Here, researchers have opted each over eight meters in diameter. Together, they will function as a single mirror It is scheduled for completion in 2029. At the Las Campanas Observatory in Chile. Another giant is the TMT, which stands for 30 meter Telescope. Its name refers to the size of its primary mirror. The project will take place in Hawaii Acacia, the extinct volcano that dominates the island at an altitude of over 4000 meters. The peak offers ideal conditions for observing The problem is that the site is also considered sacred by some of the island's indigenous population, for ten years now. And so it is with these ongoing projects I hope you enjoy this new video, Thank you for watching. And see you soon. On looking for.