Vsauce! Kevin here, with historical proof in his storied career. He seems to have been and 58,000 other things that redefined how here's what Newton couldn't quite handle: DICE. Some of ye are gonna think I'm wrong. And ye will think that it doesn't even matter. Let's start by talkin' about Pepys. Samuel Pepys gained fame as England's Chief became the 6th president of the Royal Society institution in the world. But now he's most In 1693, Pepys sent a dice gambling problem minds alive: Sir Isaac Newton. It's the only time Newton seems to have was mostly right, he was still a little bit Pepys made a wager with a man named John Smith the most likely to occur -- or if they were A - has 6 dice in a box, with which he is B - has in another box 12 dice, with which C - has in another box 18 dice, with which Q - Whether B and C have not as easy a task Pepys's problem isn't hard to figure out... to get one six in 6 dice, or three sixes in in terms of probability? Pepys posited that probable. More dice, better odds. Hey... What are we even doing with YE DICE We're using standard 6-sided dice with each business here. The odds of getting a 6 on Now we just need to "fling" them. WAIT -- we've got a language problem. Is a 6, or does that imply at least one 6? Because things, and that would apply to B and C, too. what our odds are and whether there's any interpreted Pepys' problem as being satisfied And while Pepys predicted that the best shot fling of 18 dice, Newton proved it was the likely, and "In ye third case, ye value And I know that people don't believe this. years later, claiming that the probability every die has that 1 in 6 chance of coming 6 individual dice. 12 and 18? That's just And I'll show ye why. It's time to prove this by flinging some All the possible probabilities of an event there's a .5 probability of heads and a of one of those two outcomes occurring is is certain to happen. It's the same with So to find out the probability of something the probability of that thing not happening the only two outcomes here, it happens or minus failure" leaves us with the probability The probability of rolling a 6 is p... Hold finder my marker -- 100%! The probability of not rolling a 6 is (1 - p), so the probability -- is 1 - (1-p)^6. Plug in the 1/6 value for p and the probability = .6651... We do the same thing for B. It's not any and a little extra step, since rolling only too. So the probability of B equals: B = 1 - (1-p)^12 - (12/1)p(1 - (1-p)^11 That simplifies to: 1 - (1+11p)(1-p)^11 ... and when we put in our 1/6 value again, B is .6187... It's about 5 percentage points less than that's actually about a 7% swing in outcomes. And like Newton said, C is even worse: "ye to be about .5973. third scenario. He had to calculate all of probability notation we just used -- and he tables that Pepys could use to do the calculations -- basic knowledge rather than complicated, the calculations like this and plug in his of at least one "6" in a toss of 6 dice 9, "outcomes with at least one '6'" It's simple, elegant genius. I, and ye, numbers on a calculator, or run a simulation in just a few seconds to confirm the result. Isaac Newton didn't have those computational that familiar with probability. No one in got the numbers right, but he got the reasoning In 2006, Stephen Stigler, at the University of Chicago, detailed a serious flaw in Newton's logic. As the correspondence man named Peter and Scenario B to James. He his fling of 6 dice, while James needed a for Peter to win. Same with the unnamed Player ignored the possibility of getting more than a different problem than the one we're dealing If that seems like a minor detail, it really his answer was right. And that seems to be about how his conclusion was wrong. And that's Does it matter if ye are wrong about why ye On December 23, 1693, in his third letter conflated that original language problem I exactly a number of 6s, or at least a certain He was confused. He knew the math and he nailed really being a thing in his era... but his numbers. That's okay. And for centuries, we kinda let that go. Part enough knowledge to know why Newton's explanation to have evolved from wanting of gambling, and the numbers were accurate. And part of it was that... he's Isaac Newton. details of a man on humanity's Mount Rushmore guess... me. But the Newton-Pepys problem shows us how work hand-in-hand with our understanding of Newton's solution is evidence that Occam's probably the right one, and the simpler sequence We use that mindset to develop and improve lines to coding software for sustainability. The important thing is someone needs to get seemingly simple things from suddenly getting... us so that we can move on to things that are And as always -- thanks for watching.