- It's been a number of years since Sony has released but that's exactly what we've got today. In this video, sponsored by Sony, taking a look at the A7000. Now, one thing you guys is that unlike the ST5000, which was their previous top-of-the-line, there's no subwoofer included. Well, apparently this was where people were telling Sony, like, &quot;Look, I want your but I live in an apartment.&quot; (box clatters) Whoops. &quot;Realistically, I'm never gonna be able to turn the thing on, anyway.&quot; So what they've done is they've essentially So it comes in at a So it's $1300 instead of $2000 dollars US. And then, (box drops) you can just add your own subwoofer to it, if you want, based on your needs. So we've actually got the higher end one, that's $700, which would put this combo right up at the same price as the old one. Or you can go for the more basic one, which is $400. So this is the SW5, and even though they don't come together, they're supposed to just (Linus snaps) Now, one of the biggest reasons that Sony is replacing their old flagship, cause already, if you guys remember, I've talked about it a Both in sponsored videos, it already sounded great, Dolby Atmos, and was a 7.1.2 setup so it already had upward firing speakers so you have those virtual, but, technology has moved on, and HDMI 2.0 has been replaced... Ah, here we go. Bam, this thing is a beast. ...With HDMI 2.1, so the for 8K 30 Hz or 4K 120 Hz and all the latest devices. Oh, there's a little label here, for which one is the HDMI input. Oh, these are both HDMI. Oh, okay. I can see why they did it this way, because everyone's gonna need to plug this into their TV via the HDMI outport right here. And then you can use it to not only replace that input from your TV, but actually switch. So it's got two HDMI inputs. In terms of the rest of the IO. We've got an optical input. Just in case your TV This does support eARC though, it's part of the HDMI 2.1 specification. It's got an analogue in. If you have an analogue source It's got a USB port and this S-Center out. If you've never heard of that before, I don't blame you, but Sony has a feature on their Bravia TV's that allows you to use the built in speaker of the TV. And they've actually got ones that have that speaker built It vibrates the display. So you can actually use with this soundbar. Not that you would necessarily need to because this thing is absolutely bristling with Sony's X-balanced speakers. Oh, that's interesting. I had expected the grill to be removable like on their old one, but it looks like either it doesn't come off or it's something you have to unscrew. How many of these are there? Uh-oh yeah, it might not Interesting. That's quite unexpected. No, that's fine. We can still get a look at this. So one of the things Sony has done really well with their previous soundbars is creating a really wide soundstage. So you can see we've got our and then we've got our right and left. And then this right here, this is what Sony apparently calls their Beam Tweeters. That's really interesting. They've got these small and apparently what this is about is creating a more accurate So that's, that's pretty cool. And then, ah, yes, this is another thing. So we can't oh yes... No we can't see them, built into this are also two subwoofers. So the idea is that if they're shipping it without a dedicated subwoofer, it should have pretty good bass Confirmed though. They've got these little, these little kind of spacers here to make sure this doesn't get punched in. This is intended to be run But I'm still glad we pried it up so we could have a better look at that. Right into a small problem when we went to set up the sound bar. Our Bravia TV has a stand that kinda... We would need a deeper media console. So we're in deepening our There we go. - [Brandon] Don't try this at home. - Don't try it. Yeah. Don't try this at home. (Linus humming) Nice Now it seems like as good a time as any, to have a look at our accessory package. We've got a remote. So you can use this to control the built-in OLED screen in the front. Or if you have a Sony TV, there'll be an on-screen So we should see that on this one. Power cable. HDMI cable. The three and a half millimeter cable for hooking up your TV batteries and a wall mount. That's right. My friends Ah, yes. So the downside of using optical, well, the upside of using If you have a device that then you're gonna want to use optical. But the downside is the same high definition So you're not gonna be running it just doesn't work that way. Yeah. It's it's funny, 'cause you think of like &quot;optical&quot;, you know, as like a high-speed connection. But that particular optical standard hasn't been touched in like 15, 20 years. Yeah. So it's really, really slow. This soundbar has support that you could want today. Dolby Atmos, DTS-X. I mean, those are really the main ones. When you're plugging in your soundbar, Sony helpfully stickered over the ports not to use on the soundbar itself, but you need to make sure you're plugging into the correct port on your TV. So I'm going to hit the one right here that is labeled ARC. Then for my PlayStation 5, I'm gonna plug that Okay. There. Now, any content running and any content playing will all be routed through the sound bar. That's kind of the whole is that the audio can either through the TV or directly through It just doesn't matter. Hey. Check this out. This is the SW5. And it's got this kind of like... I can't tell exactly what this is made of. It has kind of like a leather wrapped look to what I think is just a plastic mold. But, I dunno, it looks kind of cool. - [Jono] They call it &quot;textured surface.&quot; - They call it textured Thanks Jono. I mean it is... - [Guy In the back] A real creative name - Look, I can tell it's (guy in the back laughs) Let's see just how painless I'm gonna power up the sound bar. So like a pairing button somewhere. That's what I get for I misread the label and I That's why there's no setup wizard. Okay. Where'd that notification go? Yeah, probably on the There we go. &quot;Reconnect the device to HDMI 4&quot; Oh, all right. And we've got a sound now. That's an improvement. Before we do anything else, I wanna run their sound field So it uses microphones to optimize based on the I don't really wanna add So I wanna do that after, 'cause I wanna experience it without them, but I do want to optimize &quot;Allow sound may come from the speakers. Do not stand in front of the All right. I'm going. (soundbar beeps) Shh. Okay. I am really impressed though. Did that sound like it was - [Brandon] It totally soun... - Okay, so normally I would be like. &quot;Okay, well the product is That shouldn't blow my mind. But Brandon look up. That is a 26, I believe 26 foot ceiling with acoustic treatment on it. I didn't think it was really gonna be able to meaningfully bounce anything off of it. But here we are. In the next part of the set up. It's prompting me to set up Alexa. So it has support for and this is new, it supports AirPlay 2. So we're gonna try that before I don't know if I'm gonna bother with Alexa, for the time being, no. Yes. Spotify and Chromecast, but that's not new. AirPlay 2 is new with this model. Oh, this is good to know, both of the inputs on it So you can do 4K 120 or 8K. That's not a given. Oh, that's another thing, it has DSEE this isn't a new Sony feature. They do have other products, but I believe it's their So what it does is it So from services like and it will on the fly, AI I've tried it before. the same as just having lossless but it is a noticeable effect for sure. Now I wanna hear the demo. There's two demos. It has a Dolby Atmos demo and then a 3D Reality Audio demo. That's definitely better than when we tried it I think part of it is does add more chutzpah to it. Like to be clear, it already had decent bass for a soundbar, like considering that but I would probably recommend if your living space accommodates it, add the subwoofer. Let's try their 3D Reality Audio demo. This is really showing off One of the tests for that is you should be able to make out exactly where each instrument was on the, on a virtual stage. And yeah, that's pretty clear. Of course, the best way to get surround is to add surround speakers. So we're gonna do that next. These are Sony's RS3S surround speakers. And if you find you don't get from the soundbar on its own, you can add a couple of They do need to be powered, they connect wirelessly to the soundbar and they should enhance The rear speakers are M5 threaded in case you were wondering. So we're gonna go ahead and Something I should've if you want to experience you do have to subscribe to a supported music service like Tidal. The light is green on that one. I think these might've just, picked up. Either way, I wanna with these accounted for though. Okay. Let's do it again. (soundbar beeps) Oh yeah. Okay. Time to enjoy, &quot;Linus The challenge here is I want to hear what it's like to have a and I have to pass one for that to happen. You could definitely feel like, the gravel kind of coming from all around you though. That is a pretty fantastic I think it's fair to say at this point that if you have another that doesn't wanna deal with the whole fussing about with inputs a good quality soundbar it This is a pretty freaking sweet setup. Oh. And we didn't even try AirPlay 2 yet. Let's go ahead and do that. Step one is: Have an iPhone. Step two: Try to cast. Step three: AirPlay and Bluetooth devices. Step four: Enter this code. That's pretty big sound. I'm at like 70%. (&quot;Noisestorm - Crab Rave&quot;) I mean, that's louder want to listen to in your living room. I would think. And I think that's about the Thank you Sony, for sponsoring this video and sending over your A7000. It looks like a worthy And make sure you're for more videos like this one.