Welcome to this Phrasal Verbs master class. Today you're going to learn over 200 fluent, sound natural, and sound I'm Jennifer from JForrest English. Now let's get started. This is a long lesson, but don't individual sections where you'll then you'll complete a quiz, and then So let's get started with your first. Group. Number one to come around and this means to change your opinion Now notice the sentence structure. Because we have two prepositions around and We need a noun, an opinion, or an idea. For example, I came around to the new job So remember, this means you changed your The new job. But now you've come around to it, Now you want the new job because you We commonly use this without the preposition 2 and without specifying the something when For example, at first I didn't want to move So notice I didn't say I came around to something because the something had already To. The idea after I visited #2 to and this is when you clearly and effectively For example, make sure you. Get. Across that, the project is over budget, and your boss has this very particular Budget. And your boss wants you to communicate Your boss wants to make sure you get that across. Now we also use this when you're talking, You're talking, you're talking, and the And after a while you stop and you say what State your. Point what I'm trying to get Over. Budget #3 to show. Off. This is when you deliberately display your skills Now, this is frequently used in the negative. Don't show off, don't show off. But there's definitely a time and For example, when you're going to a job interview, you shouldn't be modest, You should You should talk about all your your degrees, the compliments you've received. You want to show off all of your so an interview is the perfect time to show off. Also, if you're going for your IELTS exam, you don't want to be modest with your You want to show off your abilities structures and a range of phrasal You want to show off to the Now this is exactly the same So you have three different phrasal verbs And this is of course when you trust someone or something to complete a For example, I can always So you can trust Selma to complete the specific And remember you could replace this with rely on I can always rely on Selma or depend Now we frequently use this in a question response. For example, can I count on you? Can I count on you to close the deal? And then you can reply back and say absolutely This is when something disturbs a can be a professional relationship, a social It can be any kind of relationship. For example, Jacob and Marcus were best So that's the image you could have. They were close, Jacob and Marcus, but then Sylvie disturbed their relationship. Now it's very common for a girl or a but it doesn't have to be a person. It could be that Jacob and Marcus were very the new job came between them, their politics came between them, It could be anything between them. Money. Is a good one as well. That comes between people in relationships. And remember you can use this in any type of relationship number six to put And notice this is a 2 preposition phrasal. Verb. Put up. With. Put up with and. We use this to say that you tolerate bad For example, I don't know how you put up with. Your. Boss, I don't know how you tolerate. Your. Boss. Now of course we can be more specific and I don't know how you put up with your or your boss's distasteful jokes, for example. I don't know how you tolerate. It. Now we commonly use this to say I'm not going. To. Put up with and then the behavior. I'm not going to put up with your constant Now to bounce back. This is when you recover or recuperate. Now you can use this when you recover from like for example a bad sales quarter But it can also be when you recover so you can use it in both those situations. For example, in a workplace I don't know how we'll bounce So I don't know how we'll recover. And then you could have a Does anyone have any ideas on how we can bounce back now in terms of recovering You could say it took me a while so it took me a while to This means to behave badly or strangely. This is very commonly used with their young children or even their older children. My son keeps acting up, behaving badly, but For example, my computer keeps My computer keeps acting up. I hope it doesn't break #9 This is quite a long one, so pay attention to Now we use this when you try For example, let's say it's your best For whatever. Reason so this. Is the. Wrongdoing Not going to your Now, if you want to compensate say I'm so sorry I can't make your birthday party. I promise I'll make it up to you. I'll make it up to you by taking I'll make it up to you by I'll make it up to you by buying So those are the ways you're going to compensate. Now you might be wondering To someone. We use it with it because what has already been explained, so Now you can use this in a business context. Let's say you went over budget on a client's how are we going to make it up to the client? How are we going to compensate for our wrongdoing? The wrongdoing is you went over budget. And then maybe someone would them by offering a discount or offering a So those are how you're going to compensate for To barge. In when you barge in, you enter and you interrupt whatever's taking place. For example, I was in my office Barged. In and handed me his CV, but later I hired him. So by saying the kid barged in, it implies that He just. Barged in unexpectedly and he But in this case it was successful because. He got the job. So now you have the first group. So let's complete your quiz. Here are the questions for the quiz. You need to complete each sentence So go ahead and hit pause Here are the correct answers. Go ahead and hit pause and see how well you did. So make sure you share your score in the comments. And now let's continue with Verbs. Number one to abide by. This is more of a formal phrasal verb because it's used when you accept or So we use it mainly with government rules, For example, as a tourist, you have to abide So if you see a sign that says no You have to follow that rule. Now remember, we also use You accept, but then you follow it. For example, let's say you go to court because of a dispute and the court You still have to abide by that decision. You have to accept it and then follow it. So this is a more formal. Phrasal verb, but. It's. Very useful because we all have to abide by #2 to dawn on This is an excellent phrasal To dawn on is when you finally For example, one day it just dawned So one day I just realized So you can absolutely say realize we're just using the phrasal verb dawn Now notice the sentence structure here. It dawned on me something dawns on someone. So the IT is the realization it dawns So just keep that in mind because the with it dawns on and then someone #3 to pull off. This is also a must know phrasal verb. When you pull something off, you're able to do For example, let's say you're a wedding planner to have this huge 300 person wedding in three That's really difficult. And it might even be unlikely that you're able So you could say I don't I don't know if I can do that I don't know if I can pull that off the Now let's say you do successfully plan the Pulled. That off, I can't believe I. Pulled. Off planning a 300 person wedding Back out of. This is an excellent business phrasal verb. It's used when you fail to Now in a business context, A commitment could It can be formal and you have a contract in place, or it could be more informal and So if you don't keep that For example, I can't believe the Now notice here I just said backed out. I didn't use the of. We only use the of when you I can't believe the client the project, the plan, the proposal This is an excellent phrasal verb for all because when you clam up, you're unable to But this can also be used if you simply. Refuse. To. Speak for whatever. Reason. For example, I always clam When I'm public speaking, I become You clam up now. My advice to you is if you feel like you're Number six, to Mull over. When you Mull something over, you think about you're mulling over is simply an idea, an idea, You think about it, You consider it. So let's say you're in a meeting and a client or colleague suggests a new tool to So you could say give me a few days to Mull it the IT being using the tool, purchasing the tool, whatever you're going to do, give Now you can also specify the noun, and you can say I need to Mull the deal This is an extremely common phrasal verb. To pan out simply talks about For example, I'm not sure So the. Situation here. Is the merger and we're talking about, How's it going to develop? Will it be positive, Will it be negative? Will there be challenges or difficulties, So here I'm saying, I'm not sure, I'm Now let's say the merger has You could say the merger didn't pan out. Didn't develop the merger. Didn't pan out as we had expected #8 to ramble on. This is an excellent one for all you public Talk. At length without getting to the point. So let's say I rambled on for 5 minutes and at the end you didn't understand You're a little annoyed I rambled on. So this is used as a negative and it's So we generally use this as a complaint. The speaker rambled on for This is when you fall asleep, usually for a very short period of time So this isn't when you go to OK, so let's say you're in a meeting at and the topic is very boring. And you? Start doing this. That is nodding off and this motion This is the verb. To. Nod. Nod your head. So when you fall asleep, what do you do? You nod your head. So that's where this. Phrasal. Verb to nod off comes from. And remember, we use this usually when you're not supposed to fall So I might say I always listen to so I don't nod off and number. 10I. Love this phrasal verb to luck. Out. When you luck out, you're very So let's say there's this major sale selling for 50% off and you go to the You could say, I can't believe I lucked You lucked out. You were very lucky in this specific situation. Or let's say you're driving during rush And. You get a parking spot right in front You can say I can't believe I lucked out Or if you're telling that story to a friend, I got this parking spot right in front of They could say, wow, you really lucked out. You really lucked out by Are you ready for your next quiz? Here are the questions. Hit pause and complete the quiz. Now here are the answers. Hit pause and compare your So how'd you do? Share your score and let's continue on Number one to rip off. We use this when someone is selling something the price is too high compared to For example, I can't believe I paid $200 for that. She ripped me off. Now notice the sentence structure. You rip someone off. She ripped me off. Another example, She told everyone that I So just because someone claims you Mean It's true. #2 To wear out. We use this when something is damaged or weakened You've used it a lot. For example, I wore out my If someone said that to me, I would assume They played so much tennis that they wore out. Their. Shoes. They became damaged from use We also use this in an So it would be very common to say I need to So of course are because shoes is plural and My tennis shoes are worn out, so both We use this when you need to prepare paperwork, and generally that paperwork is for generally something that two people need For example, I asked my lawyer to draw up. The. Papers. Whenever you're dealing with a lawyer, the. Papers are going to be. Official so this is a perfect Or you could say we're waiting for our so that's another very official And you can use the phrasal This is a phrasal verb that has gotten a lot of Because to burn out. This is when you feel exhausted, mentally Stress of work, stress of a situation situation like a divorce or an illness, You can be stressed out for a day, but that stress for a long period of time, several For example, I burned out at my last job, so perhaps I was working so much that I went I burned out another example. I burned out after caring for my aging parents. So caregivers often experience burnout. So you can use this in a work situation or you #5 to look up to someone. So notice we have two prepositions. Look up two and then someone. We use this when you admire So I could say I looked up to him like a father. So of course I admire and respect my father and I looked up to him. I admired him like a father. Another example, I really look up to my boss. So you admire your boss or you respect your boss. You hold your boss in high regard. So you can use this in a work situation. You can look up to people. And you can use this in a social You can have many different people in your Number six, to step up. Now, that's the phrase is a verb, but we most Notice that it it's very important This simply means to work harder or to try harder. Now you can say we need to step it up So you have this deadline, So it's the same as saying we need to work Step it up now, what is this it in the expression? Well, the IT would represent. Work. Or effort. We need to step up our work. We need to step up our effort. Step it up. I encourage you to use it that way. Step it up because you'll We have a really common expression with this. Step it up and then you add the two. Words. A notch. Step it up a notch. If you look at a dial, A so it represents a little bit, A small amount. Step it up a notch. It's just like saying step it up a little bit. So that's just a common expression. You need to step it up a notch So you can use it with a notch. It's very common. Or you you can use it without #7 to hone in on. This is another two preposition phrasal verb. We have hone in on, hone in on something and this means to really focus on something to put For example, if we want to get more customers, we So maybe right now you're not being very but you want to hone in on one specific segment So you're going to focus on them, Another example for the presentation, we So maybe you're a global company and But for this specific presentation, you're going to hone in on one specific This is a must know phrasal verb to bring up. And this is when you begin a For example, if you're in a staff meeting, it is leading the meeting to say before we end the Does anyone have a specific Does anyone have anything to bring up? Or after the meeting you I didn't have a chance to bring so you didn't have a chance to discuss this Maybe you ran out of time #9 to talk to talk someone into something, and this For example, she talked me into helping her move. She convinced me to help her move. So when someone uses this, oh, she It gives you the impression that the person didn't Convinced them. But please, I really need your help. I'll buy pizza. Or maybe you could say my team talked me into So notice I use bring up discuss My team talked me into bringing up the bonus a little bit of a sensitive issue and nobody Lucky you. So they talked you into. It. And #10 to stick around, this You can use it in a social To stick around means to stay in So let's say you're at this and after an hour or so your friend has to leave And you say, no, I'm going to So you're going to stay in a specific It's unknown how long you'll stay. That doesn't really matter. It's just the fact you're going to stay. I'm going to stick around a little bit longer. It's such a beautiful day. I'm going to stick around now. You can also use this in the negative. I can't stick around very Although it's a beautiful day, I have a meeting to get back. To. Are you ready for your next quiz? Here are the questions. Hit pause now. Complete the quiz and whenever you're So go ahead and hit pause. Now here are the answers. So hit pause, review the answers, and whenever So of course, share your score to take up this means to occupy or to fill. Now we use this specifically You can take up time and you can take up For example, I could say this so it occupied or filled the amount of time. Now we can also use this with space. For example, I need a new couch because occupies or fills space S Remember, you and they're both very commonly used #2 to branch. Out. Now this means to expand and we use So let's say you're in a meeting and you're You might suggest branching out into new markets. So if you only sell in North expand and sell in Europe or We need to branch out into new markets #3. This is a fun one to jot down. Now you would probably understand I jotted down a few notes. I jot it down a few notes, so it's I wrote down a few notes, So someone might ask you, maybe your hey, can you jot this down? And then they might give you a number or a Now, of course, not many people More, right? We take electronic notes. But if your colleague asks you to jot something and make a note in your phone, jot it down So this still applies even though we don't this means to perform or to conduct, and we For example, next week we're carrying our student surveys, We're We're conducting them, We're performing them. So I'm just going to do the survey. That's the simplest. Way to say it, next week we're doing the surveys. We're. Carrying out the surveys #5. This is an important one, so make sure you This means to make sufficient progress on. Let's say that you have this many orders, If you fulfill this many, you've kept up with But if you fulfill this many, or this many, or this many, or anything less than the Kept up with the. Orders you haven't made sufficient progress on. Now, of course, you can use this You can use it with your studies, your performance reports, You can use it with many, many, many other tasks. Number six, to fill out or to fill in a form. Now this is one that confuses a Do I fill out a? Form. Do I fill in the form? What's the difference? The reality is there is no difference Now when you have to fill out an. Application. You could also fill in an application. Fill out your passport renewal. You can fill in your passport There's no difference. #7 to drop in. This is a great phrasal verb because you can use Now, to drop in simply means to visit. So if you're talking to a friend and you can say how about I drop in Saturday morning? How about I visit Saturday morning? Now in a business context, you might have a Or you might drop in on a client just to say So you can use this in both a social This means to delay or postpone in So a scheduled event like a meeting. Let's say the meeting was scheduled for Well then push the meeting back until Wednesday. Postpone it until Wednesday. Now you can use this in a social context. So you might be planning your wedding anniversary actual date is March 30th, but everyone is busy so So more people can attend. Well, everyone's busy, so let's push back the So you can push back a scheduled event, which Now this means to cancel a scheduled event. So remember in our last one to But the other alternative is simply to cancel it. But generally when you call There. Were some problems or issues associated with it, but the problem or issue could be a scheduling So let's say you were planning but nobody registered because So you might discuss it with your team Attendance is too low, so let's call it off. Let's cancel it now. You can also use this in a social context. You might. Call off. Your wedding. But if you cancelled your wedding, An issue. A. Big one, right? So in that context, in a social event, Why did they call off their wedding? Why did they call off their anniversary? They're going to assume that something is wrong. And #10 to sort out. This means to organize or to. Fix if there's a. Problem. For example, I need to sort out my travel plans, So I need to decide when I'm going to travel, what airline I'm going to use, I need to sort out my travel plans, but I can also use it if there's some For example, my flight was cancelled, I need to fix this problem with you can organize it or you can Are you ready for your next quiz? So here are the questions. Hit pause and complete the quiz now. So. Here are the answers. So now let's review your Number one, to tune out. This is a very useful phrasal verb because You stop paying attention to them because you So you tune someone out. This is something that kids do all If your parent is giving you advice and you So your parent is talking but So you might say, I always tune out my Now, this can also happen a lot in a Co worker that sits. Beside you is just a very negative You might just simply tune them because you don't want to hear all So you just tune them out. They're talking, but you're This is a useful one because it means Now we use this in two very It ticks someone. Off. It ticks me off when my coworker doesn't help. So it ticks someone off, and That causes the anger, the Now the other sentence structure is just John really ticks me off. He's so negative. John really irritates me, John really ticks me off. He's so negative, but I just. Tune. Him out. Number three, to talk up and you And that means you speak in a way that makes that really positive, really amazing, So let's say you're in sales and you're trying Well, you're going to talk up that software. You're going to talk about that software in a way that really highlights all And you probably won't You're going to talk it up, Or let's say that your really close friend applied Well, you're probably going You're going to speak about your friend because you want your friend to get the job. You're going to talk up your friend #4? To. Pile up. This means simply to increase in amount So in general you could say Work is increasing in amount. You can use this with specific work. So you might say my expense reports are You might say the laundry is piling They're increasing in amount #5 This is when someone moves from one location to A lazy way. A disappointed way. And it's generally because something is wrong. Something specific is wrong. So maybe they just lost their job or So they mope around the house all day. They go from the couch to the but they look really upset and lazy and no We generally say stop moping around. You need to stop moping around If that's the reason why you're moping around Look. For a job. Number six, to loosen up. This is a great one. It means to be more relaxed, So you might say she was very shy at first, but then she loosened up so she Now we often use this as advice to Serious. You might say loosen up, loosen up. It's similar to saying relax a You need to loosen up. Oh, just loosen up #7 to kick off. This is a great one because when you We use this in the context of a sports event, So some sort of event with people. So when? Sports is very. Common to say the game the match kicks match kicks off at 3, the game kicks off Now, you could also say, let's kick explain how you're going to start the meeting. Let's kick off the meeting or let's kick off the meeting This is a fun one to horse around. Horse around you behave in a silly or noisy way. So basically what children do all the time. They horse around, but you might say the kids were Now, although this is commonly used in children, it can of course be used for In. Silly and noisy ways all the time, right? Even in workplace context. So you might be talking about how your and as a bonus you can also say goof around. It's an alternative, but so horse around or goof around #9 to get by. This is when you have just enough money so you can basically pay all It. So you might say, sense our twins were You have two new babies in the house. Well, first, congratulations. But of course, that's very expensive. So now you only have enough money buy the diapers, buy the groceries, We're getting by, We're getting by. You're just surviving. So if someone knows you're going maybe you lost your job and Is everything OK? You could say, well, I'm getting by, I'm getting You have enough to pay all your core Now this can mean to become very excited, but it So with when you have a very strong emotion, or it can be negative anger and it So if you just won a competition you might flip out and become very, very excited. Right? The sports. Team. Flipped out when they won the gold they lost the game, the team became very angry. So you can use it in both situations and Freak out. Freak out. Flip out. They mean the same. And again, positive excitement or negative anger. Are you ready for your final quiz? So here are the questions of course. Hit pause. Take as much time as you hit play and I'll share the answers Now here are the answers. Go ahead and hit pause and figure out how you. Did. Amazing job. You already have 50 common Let's keep going with the next group. And remember, you'll learn a group of 10. You'll complete a quiz, and then Number one to ache 4. To ache 4. This is a very nice romantic phrasal verb. Now, we really use this in the so make sure use that appropriately. And to ache for something or someone is when you For example, he was lonely and aching for love. So this is perhaps a little You will. Probably hear it. In novels, stories, movies, So maybe you won't use that in your. Vocabulary, but you'll likely hear it. In romance movies or romance novels now you Let's say your husband is overseas on a business You might say I'm aching for my husband. So if you're talking to your friends or family, even your colleagues, you could say, He's been gone for two This is a fun one. When you beef something up, you Now, we do use this in the context themselves up, become more muscular, So But we also use this in more of a because you might say, I I need to make my resume stronger, or, more important, I need to beef For. Example #3 to make up and in about to make up with someone, with someone. To make up with someone is when you forgive In a family context, young And. Older kids, too. But you might say to your son, your daughter, You need to make up with your brother. You need to make take up with your cousin or a you need to forgive that person, stop being angry So we definitely use this in a but you can absolutely use Co workers fight as well. There are disagreements in companies. So you say to 1 coworker Sally, You work on the same team. You have to get along. You need to make up with each other. #4 to nail down this is when you understand the exact details of something or you So let's say you're planning a conference and It will take place in summer. It will be on this general topic or What specific topics? Who? Specifically, will be the keynote speaker. Who specifically will be presenting? Who will you hire to cater the conference? You need to nail down those details, so you need to make a firm decision on who's going to cater So that's a very useful phrase, a verb, and you can use it in a business #5 to open up. When you open up to someone, you talk very things that make you quite vulnerable, things For example, after years, she So for many years there was this tragic death, She didn't talk about her But then, after years, she opened up. She started talking freely about how she's dealing with it, those types of Now notice I didn't use to someone. I could say she opened up. To. Her family. About. His death. So you have about and then the specific You'll commonly hear people say, I've never If someone says that to you, they're basically They feel like they can share emotions, and that's a very positive thing. It shows you have a very close relationship, Now this is when you quickly So this is a very specific phrasal verb. It's only used with clothing. Now, for example, this shirt But let's be honest, it's not So after I'm done recording this video, I'm going to put on a T-shirt or. If it's. First thing in the morning and you're in your You might quickly slip into The door. So it's simply another way to say, When you stand by something, it's used to show So I might say we stand by our opinion So that's my opinion, That's my belief I stand by that. I still support that. I still believe that. So you'll hear this a lot from people in They'll have an opinion, have a I stand by that to let you know they You stand by that, And if so. Why I stand by that? Yes, I stand by that. And the reason simply is. Now we also use this with stand by someone. When you stand by someone, it usually when something negative has happened. So let's say that your Co worker was but you know your Co worker didn't do it. You might say I I stand by her, I stand by her, which means you're going to support her in this This is an excellent phrasal verb because it So you might say I always read at To help me wind down. I always read at the end of the day. Or I go for a walk after work to wind down. So it just means to relax. But it's another way of saying it, and it implies that you were very busy or This is when you stop paying Now we've all done this, especially when we were kids in school and your teachers Now generally people zone out because they For example, whenever people I just stop listening and I start thinking and I'm not listening to the I zone out, I stop paying attention, but then when the conversation So it's always for that short This is a very useful phrasal verb It's another way of saying to So of course you can say I'm tired, I'm going going to turn in, I'm going to turn in, and it's You can use it as a suggestion. Hey, it's getting late and you You should turn in. You should go to bed. Or you can use it in question form as well. What time did you turn in? What time did you go to bed? Are you ready for your first quiz? So here are the questions of course. Hit pause. Take as much time as you hit play and I'll share the answers Now here are the answers. Go ahead and hit pause and figure out how you did. How did you do on the quiz? Make sure you share your And let's continue on with the next To act on this simply means But you act on specific information, advice, For example, the manager acted on the findings. Of the report. So of course in this report there's And if you act on that information, the report or in a meeting you might suggest to your We need to take action outside We need to act on the advice So they gave you some advice. You need to act on it #2 This is when you expect something to happen, but that something is usually negative, so Now notice the sentence structure here. Because we most commonly use this We hadn't bargained for such a high Expect. Or you could say we hadn't bargained So this is a great expression that you can use, but I recommend using it in the When you opt into something, it means So if you're a new employee at the company, they might have certain things that are the healthcare plan or other insurance And if you want to be a For example, as a new employee, you Now the opposite of IN is out, so if you So for example, new employees are If you don't want to be a You need to opt. Out. #4 to play down. This is a great phrasal verb. It means to make something seem less For example, the government tried to play and they want to make it seem They try to play it down. Or I could say the documentary So there's this documentary on this person who got serious or less important than it really was in In reality, the situation was more serious, It wasn't that big of a deal #5 This is specifically used when you quit a course So if you're pursuing a degree Out. Now, interestingly, Bill Gates dropped and we know how successful that was. So although it might seem negative Maybe not always the case. Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, I'm not encouraging you to. Drop out. But it's not always a negative, and you For example, I think I'm It's too difficult. I'm going to. Quit. Calculus number six to cut back. This is when you spend less, you do This is very commonly used The government has announced plans to Now notice I said on if you specify you need to use the preposition on cut I could also just say the government In that sense, it's just. Reduce reduce. Spending spend less and then you have to clarify. We'll cut back on what now? We frequently use this as advice to someone. Let's say you told me, Jennifer, I would say, whoa, you should cut back. You should consume less. That's too much soda. You should cut back. #7 to sit in on this is a It's used specifically in the context of a it means you attend a meeting, but you So you're not going to participate, not going to ask questions, you're So if there's a really interesting meeting to the subject matter, you might ask on the meeting today And which means to receive the information, Or if you're planning a sales meeting, you might say it would be useful to have someone So someone from accounting is just going but you don't expect them to So, very useful phrasal verb in a business context This is very specific because it's used with So you make yourself breakfast, lunch, You make any type of food, So you might say, Oh no, I'm running late. I need to whip up my breakfast. I need to make my breakfast really quickly. Or let's say you have some guests and you want to serve them something Give me a few minutes to whip up some appetizers. I'm going to make some appetizers really quickly, so it's a great phrasal verb that you can I love this phrasal verb. To dress up is when you wear more professional or So if you're going out for a nice dinner, maybe it's someone's birthday or You would wear more formal or professional Or let's say you have some really important Well, you might dress up. If you normally wear just a T-shirt, well, you might put on a dress shirt, Or if. You're going to a wedding? Of course. That's a great opportunity to dress Now, we often use this in question form. If you're invited to a dinner or a party, Do I need to wear more formal clothing? And they can reply back and say no, It's informal. There's no need to dress up and When someone is getting at something, they're We commonly use this in question form. Let's say your coworker is talking a meeting that you have, but They're. Trying to express to you what you could say I'm not sure what you're getting at. I'm not sure what you mean. I'm not sure what you're trying to explain. I'm not sure what you're getting at. Now. We also use this when we're and the explanation isn't going too well. And then we can say what I'm trying What I'm trying to get AT is. And then you state what you mean, Are you ready for your second quiz? Here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need. And when you're ready, you can Here are the answers. Hit pause and you can compare your answers to Share your score and let's keep going #1 to bear on this means to be connected I don't see how that So I don't see how that information is I don't see how it bears on this case. Now we can also mean to bear For example, our relationship So maybe you have a personal relationship contractors and you chose the one you have people to know that personal relationship didn't This is a more professional You'll hear it a lot in the news, in reports, #2 to care for something. When you care for something, it means that you like you have But we commonly use this in the negative. So I could say I don't care for chocolate It's just another way of saying I don't have a preference for chocolate So it's another way. If somebody offers you something, you could decline it and simply say, Or if your. Coworkers are discussing the latest reality TV show and they want to know You could say I don't care for reality TV, it's It's not your personal preference #3 to perk up. To perk up means to feel better, So think of first thing in You're still pretty sleepy, right? And what do a lot of people do? They drink coffee, so you coffee makes me more energized We also use this when someone isn't feeling negative happened, like they lost their job and Chocolates or just? With yourself to try to help, to help make them feel better, So you might say, well, the flowers perked her The flowers made her feel better, happier, This is a great phrasal verb. We use this when you have large amounts of books, and you need to examine that information For example, after Giuliano All. His files. So he has all these files, a lot of all of them to determine what you can delete Or at home, maybe you're going albums and she has 20-30 different photo albums. So you might ask your brother, can you help me examine them to determine what pictures you want Maybe you don't know who's in that photo, This is another way way of but is very commonly used So if you're in a meeting and you're you could simply say, all right everyone, Now we commonly add it, let's wrap It's getting late, let's wrap it up. The IT is the meeting, the meeting, the that you want to finish or end or you could How should we finish or end the conference? You want to do it in a memorable way, right? How should we wrap up the conference? And then you can have a discussion When you flip through a book, a report, a magazine, it means you go So usually because you want to get a Or because you're. Looking for very specific information. So if you have this report that's 130 pages, of information, you can just quickly flip through Or you can do this when you're waiting You might flip through a magazine, just reading anything, you're just flipping through it. You're going through it quickly #7 to draw out. When you Draw Something out, you make it so it's usually used in a more negative context. For example, he really drew. Out. His speech. He made the speech a lot longer than it So it's more of a negative. It's criticizing the speech. Or you could say they really So maybe you were enjoying the movie, way longer than it needed to be. And you're wondering, when They really drew out the end This is a great phrasal verb for both a When you fall behind, it means you make Let's say you. Were. Off sick from work. For. Over a week, well, you're You're going to make less progress than or than just you simply wanted to make So often we can fall behind because we're competing project or something But it could also simply be because we didn't work So in a school context, if you don't spend your exercises, you might fall behind. And if you fall behind, you might have to ask your professor for an extension on a This is when you move from place to So let's say the location is your I could ask you what's the best way. To. Get around. What's the best method of To. Place within your city. So what would you say? What's the best way to get around in your city? And then you can say, oh Jennifer, which means you can walk from location to Or you might say you definitely Maybe your city is. Quite large and spaced out, so you need a car to get around, So this is an extremely useful because you should absolutely know how to And finally #10 to put off. When you put something off, it Now, you could put off a meeting. You could delay or postpone a You might say, let's put off So let's delay the meeting until next week. A lot of times people will put off things that For example, I've been putting I've been putting off asking my boss for a raise. So notice the jaron verb. I've been putting off asking. I've been putting off cleaning my closet. I've been putting off buying new And why are you delaying at postponing? Because it's uncomfortable, Unpleasant. Are you ready for your? 3rd quiz. Here are the questions. Hit pause. Take as much time as you need and when you're Here are the answers. Hit pause and you can compare your You are doing so awesome. Let's. Keep going. Share your score and let's get going #1 to aim at. And you aim at a target. And when you aim at a target, this So you just try, you try to achieve that target. For example, they're aiming So what's the target in this sentence? Reducing their cost by 10%. That entire clause is the target. Now notice we have a gerund verb. So you can absolutely have a gerund verb. You can aim at doing something, so a gerund verb. You can also use a noun. For example, his slingshot was So the target in this example and his slingshot was aimed at because that's This is a great one to shrug off. When you shrug something off, you disregard it. You don't consider it important. So I could say his insult, an insult is His insult was aimed at me, His insult was aimed at me. But I shrugged it off. I said, Nah, I don't care. I'm not going to let it bother me. I'm not going to let it hurt me. It's not important. I'm going to disregard it. I'm going to shrug it off. Now notice what I'm doing with my You can shrug your shoulders, When we want to say meh, whatever. We tend to shrug our shoulders. So that's where this expression comes from. #3 to egg on. That's right, to egg on. This is a fun one. When you egg someone on, you but that something isn't in their best interest. For example, let's say a student Now that probably isn't in the students but if the other students are saying, They're. Egging him on. They're egging that student on. They're encouraging that student to keep arguing, Or let's say you're considering like jumping off a high Cliff when and maybe you're not really serious Oh, do it. You can do it. You should do it. They're encouraging you, even though The crowd egged them on to jump off the Cliff. Now, most likely you won't use this in your hear this on TV, in movies, or when you're You so you're not confused when you see this egg on and you have no idea Now you do #4 to turn down. When you turn something down, it And we use this in the context For example, they offered her She said no to the job. So. Of course you can say she More common to say, she turned it down so You can also turn down an invitation from someone else, a social invitation or a I asked Marissa out, but she turned me down. When you ask someone out, it means you invite I asked Marissa out. But she turned me down. She rejected my offer #5 to zoom If there are any photographers here, you already the object becomes closer and when you And I'm sharing this with you because When you're having a video conference, you have a camera that's focusing on you and You don't want to be too close. If you're too close to the If you're too far, you need to zoom in. So you might ask a colleague. Hey, I can't see you very well. Can you zoom in? Or a colleague might tell You need to zoom out. So now you know what that Call number six to wiggle out of. This is a great one. When you wiggle out of something, a or a responsibility that you don't really So let's say that tomorrow you're and you don't really want to, your sister, your brother, whoever Now, tomorrow, when you're supposed to clean call just at the right moment, and you But you planned that phone call. You planned that phone call to take place So you did that in a cunning Out of. Cleaning the garage. So basically when you're asked to do it by creating a scenario where Or maybe a friend asks you to move, but you hurt your back and now you can't help them move, This is a must know phrasal you're delayed, and you're delayed This could be traveling on a flight or But it can also just be traveling from your office to another boardroom So it can be a very short distance For example, my kids always hold So you're trying to leave Mom, mom, I need this. Help me find that. Do this for me. And they delay you. They delay you when you're trying to leave. You're trying to travel. My kids always hold me up. Now, we commonly use this in the passive form. So you might have an appointment that And when you get to that appointment and you can I was held up by my kids. Oh, I was held up #8 to hit it off. This is a great one. When you hit it off, it means you with someone right from the first time. You meet. Them. So let's say you have a new. Coworker. And and the first conversation you have, You really like the person. They're nice. They're funny. They like you. The conversations going really well. You can say wow we really hit it off, hit We hit our relationship off but we always use it. We really hit it off. Now notice how I also said we we almost We my Co worker and I or we I would not say I hit it off with my Co worker. That sounds unnatural. We say we hit it off #9 to get through. When you get through something, But that something is is usually a chore or an For example, I have 10 reports I need I have 10 reports I need to But when I use the phrasal verb get through, it implies there's going to I don't really enjoy the task #10 to freshen up. When you freshen up, you So before you go into a meeting or to You can go into the bathroom You can put on fresh lipstick. You can check your makeup. Now, if you're a guy, maybe you put on So you quickly improve your appearance. You freshen up. So let's say you're going out for a nice dinner. You might say, oh, just give Are you ready for your 4th quiz? Here are the questions. Hit pause. Take as much time as you need, and when Here are your answers, so hit pause. Take as much time as you This is your. Last. Group of phrasal verbs. Let's get. Started. To. Take off this is used when a. Flight leaves. The ground. For example, tomorrow my flight takes off at So this is another way of simply Now, we also use this phrasal verb to So you might be at a party and it's getting late, you have an early meeting and I'm going to take off, I'm going to leave. Or someone might ask you, what What time did you leave? Now take off is also used to So at night, before you get into your Right before you get into the I can also take off my Or if it's really hot in the room, you might say, oh, it's so hot in here, I Or when you. You come into the house and it's cold out. You take off your jacket, you take off your shoes, you take off your hat, you take off So you can take off an item of clothing, but you can also take off accessories Take off can also mean to become successful. For example, after I improved my English My career became successful. My career took off. Or I could say overnight my YouTube channel So many different phrasal verbs would So make sure you learn all these When you take after someone, you resemble and this is most commonly For example, it's very common for a son to take They look very similar. But you might also say Julie is so funny, So maybe Uncle Frank is really funny. He's always telling these hilarious jokes. And then Julie is also really So you can use this with personality When you take something apart, you whole one complete item, and then you So if your car isn't working, you might take apart the motor or take apart the engine to You might also take apart a desk or rid of it when you're removing it from when it's in individual parts rather When you take something back, it means that you So let's say you bought a You come home and you realize they don't fit Well, you can take them back. So you go to the store, you return the Now, we only use this when you So with online purchases, we actually So if you. Order something from Amazon and you We simply say I returned the shoes I bought from So just keep that in mind. We only use take back when you You can also take someone back, which means So let's say that Rob and Julie were a They ended their relationship, Julie, please take me back. Please accept me again as your romantic partner. Please take me back. But Julie's friend might say, don't take Rob back. Why would you take Rob back? You shouldn't take Rob back to take on. When you take on a project or a task, it simply For example, your boss might ask. The team. Who has time to take this on? Who has time to take on this And you might say, I can So you accept that responsibility for that job. You can also take over a a task, which means that you assume So let's say Julie took on the project, but then So your boss might ask you to take over. So the responsibility goes from Julie to you. Hey Maria, can you take over this Or it can be. Can you just take over this project so it can be it can just be a temporary situation while someone When you take someone out, it means such as having a meal together or going to the For example, let's say it's your birthday. Well, your husband, your best friend, Take you out. For dinner, which means they invite you That's the important part. Or they might take you out for a nice night at Or maybe to the amusement park But it's mainly used with meals. So maybe your friend says, Why would you take Rob back? He didn't even take you out for your birthday. He didn't invite you? Out. For dinner and then pay for that meal. You can take up a new hobby or activity. Which means you. Start that new hobby or activity. You could tell your friends which means you decided to start karate Or your friend might say, I I didn't know you started Are you ready? For your final quiz, here are the questions. So go ahead and hit pause. Complete the quiz. Take as much time as you need, and when Here are the answers, so hit, pause and Congratulations, you now have 100 phrasal verbs Feel free to take a break, but we're going to Remember, you'll learn a group and you'll move on to the next group. Let's get started to run one out of something. This is when you use all of something We commonly use this with We ran out of milk. This means you have no milk Now notice ran. That's the past simple of the verb run. The conjugations are run, ran, run. You can also say we've run perfect because it's a past action In a business context you might So here notice in the present continuous we're It means you're in the process So if the meeting ends at 11:00 and right now We need to end the meeting in 10 minutes. You can also use this with ideas. We're running out of ideas or patience. I'm running out of patience, which means I'm in the process of This means to raise a topic for conversation He brought up an interesting point at the meeting, He shared an interesting point. He brought up an interesting point at the meeting. Here, brought is the past simple of bring Now. Remember, this also means to raise a child. When you raise a child, it Nurture a child from the time that child That is, to raise a child. For example, she's bringing So this means she's raising three children on This means to care for someone or So generally we don't use this if you're Like when you bring up a child, you're But if you're looking after a child, it sounds like you're doing it For example, my son's 16, so he looks after So my son who is 16, cares but he's not bringing them up because He's caring for them for a period so maybe 2 hours a day between after My oldest child, who's 16, cares for my We also use this with things to care for things. For example, can you look after If someone asks you to look after they're on vacation or while they're Care. For it. So that's a lot of responsibility for you. You better not kill my plans To. Remove something commonly in the sense of removing something from your body. When someone comes to your house, you might say So you want to keep your floors nice and clean, so you ask them to take off their shoes to We commonly use this with flights. For example, my flight was supposed to So if my flight's delayed, it means it's now taking off later And when your flight takes off, It leaves the ground. It leaves the airport. So you can use this one every single talk about removing something I'm sure you know this one, but just to make sure, this means to activate a This is something that I ask Siri to do daily. And you might ask Siri or Alexa or Hey Siri, turn on the lights. Or you might say, can you It's really hot in here, so think of all in your office, and even on you everywhere you go. And you can use turn on to mean activate. And if turn on means to activate, What's the phrasal verb for? To deactivate a device? Of course it's turn off. Turn off a device. Deactivate a device again. Something you can ask your Hey Siri, turn off the music. And this is also something that parents have to For example, make sure you turn Get up. This is one you can of course use every it means you wake up in the morning. For example, I get up at 5:50 On Sundays I get up at 7:00 AM. So I sleep in on Sundays and oh I. Enjoy. That what about you? What time do you get up? Share that in the comments we also use get out So let's say you work in an office that you might just be relaxing and lying on the couch. But then your Co worker says quick Is. Your boss. And you don't want your boss to when you should be at your desk working, right? So in this context, it doesn't mean It simply means you were in a So we talked about how take off is used So if you're hot, you can take off your sweater. But what if you're? Cold. What's the phrasal verb to Do you know if to put on? To put on is. To. Wear clothing or accessories so you Your. Body. To put on also means to apply something For example, you could say You should put on a sweater. Chili means a little cold, so maybe your friend is You should put on a sweater to give up. Hopefully a phrasal verb that isn't because this is used when you For example, don't give up just That's part of the learning process. I'm sure some days you feel which would mean stop learning However, there are some things you should give up, like a bad habit, and give up is For example, you should give up smoking, which Stop smoking, so you should quit smoking. You should give up smoking permanently, But you shouldn't give up learning mistake or just because it's taking Don't give up to look for. When you look for someone or something, you For example, I looked for you at This means I tried to find someone, I tried to find someone at a conference. I looked for her or him, but I didn't find that person because there were too The conference was busy, of course. We use this with everyday objects like our keys, our phone, our purse, even Can you help me look for my keys? This is another way of saying, Can you help me locate my keys Can you help me look for my keys? So these are the 10 phrasal verbs that native speakers and to sound fluent They were pretty. Simple, right? Most likely, you knew most of them, but Here are the questions. Hit pause. Take as much time as you need, and when So how did you do with that quiz? Let's find out. Here are the answers. Review them as long as you need, and So how'd you do with that quiz? Share your score in the comments. Practice with your favorite phrasal verb from that section and let's move on and learn the Did this when you perform or explain For example, right now I'm acting out. It's raining. Using my actions and my gestures, I'm teaching language fluently, often we act out what we For example, I couldn't think of the How you're going to act out sunrise? I'm not as. Sure you can try though. Another example. I'm not sure what you mean. Could you try acting it out? This could be a smart way for you to understand I love this one because it means to sing loudly. For example, the crowd belted out So the crowd sang the national anthem loudly. They belted it out. And here's another example that is true for me. I love driving alone because I I can sing those songs very loudly This is a must know phrasal verb. This is when you meet someone after a period So let's say you and your friend Well, you don't know what your friend So you could text your friend Are you free tomorrow? This is a very common way that two native You could also simply say let's catch up soon and You've. Been doing and you can find out what we saw each other #4 to grind away at something. This is when you work on some something For example, I had to grind So this means I worked on my taxes, but because long time and a lot of effort, you could also All week. But it's still not done. So you've spent a lot of time on this report. You've put in a lot of effort, You've been grinding away at it. #5 To naw at this means to First of all, notice that silent G naw naw. It starts with a an N sound not to naw. For example. His text message has been gnawing at me all day, so his text message has been troubling You don't exactly know which one it is, but my facial emotion, you would know his text Or let's say you were in a meeting and about you in front of everyone Well, your friend could say don't Don't let his comment bother you or annoy you. Number six, to pull oneself together. This means to become calm or to Calm down, calm down, calm down. So let's say your coworker made that you in front of everyone else You became very upset or Even your friend could say pull you need to regain control of your emotions We also commonly use this in the So notice with the imperative you start You need to pull yourself together. Both of those are very common. And then an hour later, your friend could And you could say, oh, I went for a to regain control of my emotions and this means to acquire a lot of something, For example, I racked up a lot of So maybe you're in a new city and you're not so you racked up a lot of parking tickets. Parking tickets are, of course, negative. Or you could say when I was a student, Again, student debt is of course You acquired it. #8 To rub off on this is when a quality person to another person, for example, her So this means my friend was being very that I became very passionate and enthusiastic, But we also use this with negative For example, don't let Frank's So Frank is always anxious, and he's sharing If you're not careful, his anxieties could rub simply because Frank is anxious and you're This means to make a careless error or mistake. For example, I can't believe I slipped So there was a surprise party and because it's a surprise, you're But I slipped up and I told her about the party. I made a mistake and it was a careless mistake. I should have known better. Another example, you purchased That was a real slip up. What do you notice here? A slip up here is being used as the a careless mistake, and finally #10 to talk down. This is when you try to make less important than it really is in reality. For example, the CEO tried to Layoffs is when you to fire people from a So that sounds like the But if you try to talk down the recent layoffs, it means you try to make them sound less Or remember when I accidentally ordered Well, I could say I tried to talk down my slip up. Remember here slip up is being used as the And it means a careless mistake. I tried to talk down my slip So I tried to make my mistake the fact I I tried to make that sound like I tried to talk down my slip up and now you have So Are you ready for your quiz? Here are the questions. Hit, pause, take as much time as you need, and How did you do with that? Quiz. Well, let's find out. Here are the answers. Hit, pause, and take as much So how'd you do with that quiz again? Share your score. Practice your favorite phrasal verbs, and Let's do it to dish out. This simply means to criticize. So when you criticize someone or something, It. For example, she. Really. Dished it out to Tom at the meeting. She really criticized Tom at the meeting. Now notice, I said. Dished it. Out. What's the IT? the IT represents the criticism she dished And we always use this expression with I'm sharing this phrasal verb with you because You can dish it out, but you can't take it. You can dish it out, which means but you can't take it, Which means you do not accept that you So if someone is being very well, you can dish it out, but can you take it? Can you receive the criticism that you're giving? It's a way to remind someone that You can dish it out, but you can't This is when you do or achieve something For example, I muddled through making the cake. So maybe I had no idea how to make this cake. I didn't know the procedure. I didn't feel prepared. I muddled through making the cake, So sometimes when you muddle through something the result isn't very positive because Other times it can. Be positive. In the end, #3 to nerd out. Oh, I love this one when you nerd. Out. On something, it means you discuss Than the average. Person would normally do. For example, I can nerd out I can discuss sentence structure, English are native English speakers have no interest To them, that is boring. But to me as an English teacher, and we can nerd out on the English language all day. I can also nerd out on plants. Talking about plants, different I really love plants as well, doesn't want to discuss it What about you? What's something that you could nerd out on? Nerd out on this specific topic. All day. Share that in the comments, #4 to stick around. This is a very common phrasal verb and it simply Let's say you just finished dinner with but your friend took the bus. So you can just get in your car and leave. But your friend has to wait until the bus comes. So you could say, oh don't worry, I'll stay with you at this specific location, the Or let's say you're in the You might say, well, let's just So let's stay at this specific You'll absolutely use this in your using this one all the time #5 to wash up. This simply means to clean your hands, to So before dinner you could say, And most likely you're going to wash your hands. And I commonly say this in the I could say to my husband, oh just give me 5 And for me it's to wash my face because I love It's a lot more comfortable. So women might use the wash up so it can be for both hands, hands This is when you securely close your windows and So it's another way of simply saying lock. For example, make sure you lock up before And that's of course good advice. But if you work in a building, someone is likely responsible for So one person might be responsible for that building are securely closed or locked. So for example, Sally is responsible This is when you talk For example, I ran into Kate at the mall and So I ran into Kate. I saw Kate, but I wasn't expecting to see her. I saw her accidentally. I ran into Kate at the mall and I'd love to tell you about my vacation. And then 10 minutes later, she's and she doesn't realize that I'm not I'm just busy and need to leave When you mouse off to someone, you speak to that So this is something that kids, And when I was a teenager, if I moused When you're grounded, this means that So. If you're grounded, maybe you can't go to the you can't use the computer privileges You're grounded. You're grounded. And as adults, we also don't want to mouse off figure like a police officer is definitely When you Max something out, it means For example, I maxed out my So your credit card has a limit, Credit card. It means that you spent $10,000, the maximum Likely not the best idea. Then finally #10 to load up on. When you load up on something, it means or you purchase a lot of that So let's say you're an athlete right before a Carbs are carbohydrates, energy for your body. So you want to consume a lot of carbs. Jim loaded up on carbs before the rate. Or you could say we loaded up on So we purchased a large amount of Now you have the top 10 phrasal Are you ready for your quiz? Here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you need, and when So how did you do with that quiz? Well, let's find out. Here are. The answers hit, pause and take as and when you're ready, hit play. You are doing such a great job. Now we're going to focus on the verb get, and you're going to learn 40 common And there'll be a quiz at the end. Let's get started right now. To get ahead, this means to progress, And we most commonly use this in a For example, if you want to get Would you agree with that? Put that in the comments. If you want to get ahead, you need fluent English. Now notice how I didn't specify get ahead in. What if you want to get ahead at work But you can also just say if you want to get ahead Do you know this one? When you get along with someone, it means you I really get along with my boss, Negative. I don't get along with my boss, so you can So which describes you I get. Along with my boss. I. Don't get along with my boss to get away. This means to escape, so you The criminal got away, so that Got. Away. He stole my car and he got away. He escaped. But we also use this more in the sense the difficulties of your daily life. I. Really need to. Get away work has been so busy I need to get away. Another common phrasal verb with get and that something is negative. For example, she got away with the crime. This means she wasn't punished for the crime, so She got away with stealing the car. Notice that verb ING with stealing This is when you are punished for something, but you're punished less So maybe you forgot to submit a report Your boss didn't fire you, but they So you were punished, but you were We also use this more in a criminal context. She stole the car, but she got off lightly, so maybe she didn't go to prison, she only This is used to say that you return So let's say you're at home, but then you go So now you can say I got back at 7:00. What time did you get back? Now you can specify the place. What time did you get back home? Back to the office? Oh, I got back around 7:00. We commonly use this with your vacations. What time did you get back Oh, I got back on Tuesday. You returned home from Italy. There's also the phrasal verb to get Oh. I. Really need to get back to John. When you get back to someone it So if I say I need to get back to John, it means So maybe he asked me a question and I need to get back to John. Or you, John might say, when When are you going to respond to my question? When you get back into something, it means you continue doing something So let's say you decided to learn how guitar every week for months and months You get very busy at work, but So you say, oh, I need to get back into guitar. I need to get back into my guitar lessons. So maybe you could use this I need to get back into my English language class. Are you enjoying this lesson on phrasal? Verbs. You are probably a little bit confused phrasal verbs in English, and if you want then I want to tell you about This is my premium training program where movies, YouTube and the news so you can idioms and expressions very quickly and easily. Plus you'll have. Me as your personal coach so you can look in the description to learn more Now let's continue on with our next get This is used for revenge. So if you didn't get back to John, which didn't answer his question, maybe He'll try to get revenge on you. So maybe he'll tell everyone and that's how he gets back at you This is when you support someone or something. So let's say your company has a new policy You can say I can really get behind that policy. You support that policy to get by. This is when you have just We most commonly use this with financial I can barely get by. So it means you can pay your bills, but just enough at the end of the month you have. One or two? Dollars. Left. In your account I'm getting by. To get into. Trouble I'm. Sure you do this. All the time. When you get into trouble, it just means doing something you're not supposed So kids get into. Trouble all the time. That's why you don't leave your kids at because they're going to get. Into trouble. They're going to right on all the Cookies in the. Fridge, They're going to get into trouble. To get on this is when you board, which means to enter certain vessels, So you can get on a plane, I got on the plane, You entered the on is also used as an expression to say Old. So you might say, my grandma is getting on. Which means my grandma is now quite old. She's become very old. My grandma's getting on, so she Now what's the opposite of on? I'm on the plane, I got on the plane. So now I need to get off the plane. And remember, you only get off Planes, trains, boats and buses. This is my stop. I need to get off the bus, get off the train for Out of. I got in my car, I got out of my We also use get in when you enter a or a location so this is very common at work. A Co worker could ask you They mean what time did you enter the office. So you can also use it to mean what Because when you enter the office So what time did you get in? Is another way of saying Now in this case, although we have an expression to get off, So someone could ask you, oh, What time do you usually get off? What time are you getting off tomorrow? This means what time do you finish? Work. Do you end? Work just for the day to get out is So let's say your friend Get out. Get out. Get out of. Here, get out of town. So you can add get out of here. Or less commonly but still It's just to show that I can't believe it. What? Get out, get out. So if your friend says something very shocking Get out. Get out of. Town Why? Why are you doing that? When you get out of something it means you avoid doing something unpleasant. So I could say I need to get out of cleaning Don't want to? Do it to get together. This is when people organize socially. They join each other socially. So I might ask, what time are So what time are we going to meet each Have a cup of coffee? Go. For a walk. Do something social now. If you specify the noun you getting together with your friends tonight? You probably know this one to get up What time? Do you get? Up. This is when you leave your bed in the So what time do you wake up? This is when you open your eyes, but then So I wake up at 6:00 AM, but But how about this one? Get up to what did you get up up to last night? This is a common way of simply Oh, what did you get up to last night? Oh, not much. I watched a movie. We also used this one though to imply My kids are always getting up to no. Good. This is the same. Thing as getting. Into trouble, but in a general context, It's What did you do? Last night. To get across. This is to. Communicate your ideas successfully. So as a non-native speaker you might say I I have a hard time communicating time getting your ideas across, someone What are you getting at? This is another way of saying what Do you mean? So if you're trying to explain something they can say what are you getting at. Now, to get at can also mean to successfully reach So let's say I have a shelf and I have a hat on a I can't reach my hat. To get rid of this is when you throw away So remember I said I wanted to get out of cleaning my garage because there's so Rid of. There's so many unwanted things in my So maybe once a year you can go through Get rid of unwanted things To is when you get really angry Your. Father doesn't like politics in general, so every time he sees something in the He gets really angry, but you might say. To your dad. Get. Over. It get over. It. To get over something is when you tell towards something else, and those strong So if your dad gets really wound up about It's not a big deal. You can, of course, get over someone. Do you know this one? When you get over someone, it means you no So after my divorce, it took me It took me years to stop having Now someone could say. Get. Over it. Stop being upset about the situation But that might be a little. Insensitive. You can also get over an illness, which It took me weeks to get over my cold. It took me weeks to recover from How you? Travel within an area. So if you're a tourist, you might Google What's And of course, it's not by car. You don't want to get around by car so walking is the best way to get around. Or taking the subway is the best When you get around to it means you finally do something Of time. So let's say I was trying to get out of cleaning the garage because I didn't really want But I finally got around to cleaning the garage. So I finally cleaned the garage The garage. To get it together is when you Emotions. So let's say your friend is really upset and and she has not gotten over him and you but instead you tell your friend, You need to take control of your All. The time or she's really upset. She's really Moody, angry, And you tell your friend which is a little bit of tough There are many phrasal verbs with get When you get through something, it means you It was really difficult for me to get Obviously that's a difficult situation. Hopefully you don't say get over it but I had a hard time getting So you can use this in a personal situation. You can use it in a work situation as well. I don't get along with my boss, so I have I have a hard time dealing with our meetings When you get through something, it can also mean that you successfully finished something I finally got through the report. So you finished it, but it took you a really. Long time. It was difficult when you get. Through. To someone, it means that you successfully contact them after numerous attempts So let's say I needed to get back to John. I needed to respond to John, but every I could say I'm having a hard so I can't get back to John But we also used to get through communicate something to someone in So I told my friend that she shouldn't quit her job and I explained all the reasons So I finally made her understand Your head is probably spinning These. Phrasal verbs with get, but all you need is some So let's do that right now with a quiz so you Get phrasal verbs. None. You already have at least 150 I've. Already. Lost count so. Let's. Keep going. This is your final section, and because you're Quiz you. 1st. So you're going to complete I'll explain all the phrasal verbs in detail, And I promise your score will greatly improve So let's do that now. Question 1, the phrasal verb used to I'm only going to give you 3 seconds take as much time as you need, and when Phrasal verb. Is. To ask out question. Two, if you like a genre of music, I'm really into country music. Remember, I'm going to explain so don't worry if this test is difficult #3. If a movie made you sad, you can That movie really brought me down #4. If you think someone should Cheer up, cheer up #5 Do you have time Do you have time to pick up number? 6. You see that box? Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off #7? We ended up at home. We ended up staying at home #8, which phrasal verb is used to reject When you complete a form, you can This is true #10 How did you that Maria was fired? How did you find out? So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or difficult? Share your score in the comments and now I'll explain every phrasal verb in Number one to ask someone out. Now pay attention to the sentence structure You only ask someone out, And here's the reason why. When you ask someone out, it's to invite them on So to ask someone out, you invite them on a date. A date is a romantic evening spent with someone. Of course it doesn't have to be an evening, it could be a morning coffee date But I just said evening because most So let me give you an example sentence. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out yet? He's obviously into her. So notice here, why hasn't Jim asked Maria out? Ask someone out or someone is Maria. Now of course you need the So Jim is inviting Maria on a date. A date is always romantic. Right Now, Maria could say no. And we're going to talk about that So let me give you that example again. Why hasn't Jim asked Maria out yet? He's obviously into her now. You might be wondering, He's obviously into her. Well, that's our next phrasal verb. To be into someone. To be into someone. Now here I'll point out that But first, let's talk about to be into someone. When you're into someone, I'm sure but it means to like someone romantically. Now, the context is really important because I'm I'm really into Jack Johnson. Now when I say that, oh, I'm I don't like Jack Johnson romantically, but I don't like him romantically, So if you use into someone, it This. Meaning of liking. And for the most part, that liking is romantic. So if I said Jim is into Maria, But if I'm talking about being an actor, it's possible that I just like So keep that in mind. Now remember I said you Now in this case, we're talking about liking So I was really into Jack Johnson when I was Jack Johnson is an amazing musician. He plays guitar and he plays ukulele, so I was really into him and mainly when I Those are two activities I don't really do It isn't a priority for me to do those Although one day I would definitely like to do them again now so you could Oh, I'm really into going hiking. I'm really into playing video games. So we use this with hobbies and activities, mainly To bring someone down is to make someone unhappy. But there's that transition, because that to bring them down, and now they're not happy, or So I could say that movie really brought me down. Now notice. Here the my subject is. The. Movie. The movie brought me down. I could also use a person. My boss brought me down, so something That movie brought me down, so I was happy. And then I watched the movie and probably because the movie Something like that, #4 to cheer up. So you can think of this as the opposite. To cheer someone up is to make them happier. Now we commonly use this in the imperative. Cheer up. Cheer up, Julie. Cheer up. Don't be sad. Cheer up. So we commonly use this in the imperative, For example, I could say I took my To cheer her up. So that's the the reason why To cheer her up #5 to pick This is one of the most common phrasal verbs. You probably know it, but did you You pick someone up and And that's when you take an object or a So of course you might know it up after school or I pick my That's probably how you know it. But you can use it with a something. Maybe your husband could call you Up. On your way home, can you pick milk up? So you're going to go to a location, the store, get milk and take it Can you pick milk up on your way home? It's very common to get a call from someone and Can you pick this up on your way home? And that something is a grocery So now you know how to use it And what's the opposite of to pick someone up? Well, it's to drop someone off. And you can also drop something off. When you drop someone or something off, it's to So of course you could say I I dropped my friend off at. The. Airport. Now you might also ask someone can you So they take the letter and they leave the post office or a mailbox. Can you drop this letter off on your way to work? #7 to end up, to end up is We use it to say that you eventually do So you might say I ended up asking Julie out. I ended up asking Julie out. Who is our first example. I can't remember. Oh, it wasn't Julie. It was Jim and Maria. So let me give that again. Jim ended up asking Maria out. So remember before I said why So now remember to end up, that's So after a period of time. So Jim ended up asking Maria Remember, I said at the beginning. I'm going to teach. You a phrasal. Verb. If Maria, I was going to say Julie again. If Maria says no, well, That's our next phrasal Now, you can also turn something down. Can you think of something Hmm, about a job offer. Something like that. So to turn. Someone down to turn something down or a proposal to do something You refuse, You reject. You. Say no. So Maria turned Jim down. Now you might also say I I was turned down. Now you could turn that into an active sentence. They turned me down. I was turned down by the company. They turned me down South. In this specific phrasal verb, it so I would get comfortable with the passive, but #9 to fill in or to fill. Out. Forms. OK, so notice here I gave you 2 prepositions. I know students get confused. What's the difference There is no difference. So specifically with forms, that's the When you're entering information into You're also filling out that form. It doesn't matter which preposition you use. And honestly, I use both of them interchangeably, I use both, and you can too. So if you go to an office, Fill. In this form or after you fill out Notice. Drop it off at reception. So take it to reception and leave it there. Drop it off at reception. Our final phrasal verb to find out, To you learn something or you discover something. So maybe going back to our character Jim. So maybe Jim could say, how did you So maybe Jim is a little embarrassed Nobody knew. But then a friend tried to cheer him up. Because he. Knew Maria turned him down. After he asked her out. Noticed all our phrasal verbs so Jim could say So how did you discover this? How did you learn this? How did you find this out? And we use this when you want So I might say I need to find out have a package I need to drop off I need to find that out. So learn or discover that specific information. So now that you understand all About we do the. Quiz from the beginning again, and then you can compare your score So let's do that same quiz now. Question 1. The phrasal verb used to invite The phrasal verb is to. Ask out. Question two. If you like a genre of music, you I'm really into country music #3. If a movie made you sad, you can say that movie. Really Me Down? That movie really brought me down #4 If you think Cheer up, cheer up #5. Do you have time to the dry Do you have time to pick up number six? You see that box? Can you at the post office? Can you drop it off #7? We end it up at home. We ended up staying at home #8, which phrasal verb is used to reject When you complete a form, you can This is true #10. How did you that Maria was fired? How did you find out? Question one. Please bear me. While I look up. Your file. Please bear with me. While I look up your file, Question 2, the phrasal verb to attend to means Why are you so angry? You need to cool. You need to cool down #4. The phrasal verb for repair is. The phrasal verb for repair is fix up #5. The phrasal verb for. To. Discuss something so you can reach an agreement If someone is being too serious, Lighten up. You're being too serious. Lighten up, #7. After years of studying English, My hard work has finally paid off. #8 We shouldn't rule out a graphic designer. We shouldn't rule out hiring a graphic designer. #9 My boss for being late again, my And #10 let's give everyone a few So how did you do with that quiz? With an easy Difficult. Share your score. In the comments below, and now I'm going to So let's do that. Now to bear with someone. This is a very common phrasal verb. It has a simple meaning. It means to be patient with someone. So we use this a lot with. Customer service representatives or any time now it's very common when that person is please bear with me, please So notice our verb tense. That's in the imperative, the imperative. So we're starting with the base verb. Now if you use this verb and Regular. Verb The past simple is bore, and the That's right, born with an but pronunciation is exactly the same in the past. Simple. You could say I bore with him for 20 minutes, I was patient with him for 20 minutes, and In the present Perfect, you might say. I've born with you for 20 minutes. Our next. Phrasal verb is. To attend to now, notice we're using the attended the party, but that's not a Verb. Because I don't have a I went to the party. But if we use the phrasal verb I could say I attended to the. Party. Now, in this case, this means that I worked on or Work. On a party, Well, you could So organizing all the details, sending cleaning the apartment, getting the decorations. I attended to the party. So pay attention because the verb attends and the. Phasal verb. Attend to have different meanings our next. Phrasal. Verb. To cool down. To cool down. We use this when someone is really angry, Relax. You can say cool down, cool down. So let's say a client has been sending you a irritated, annoyed, frustrated with that client. But before you call that client, You need to take a minute. And. Relax. Because you. Don't want to call that client when You need to cool down. Relax. Chill. Our next? Phrasal verb to fix something up. When you fix something up, it means you repair Now, in this case, when you change It could be that it's functioning, so you make some changes to it, you fix it up. So for example, I could say Sally loves fixing up old cars so she repairs them. But it could also mean that she just changes them. Maybe the car is working perfectly, but she changes it, she changes the She fixes it up. Now this is a very common because there's always something to fix up right? To change, to repair, to improve. Our next phrasal verb to. Hash something out. When you have something out, it means you talk and you do that because you want to get agreement. You want to get agreement on the details. So you can use this when planning a party, planning a And of course, with a project or The date, the time, Who's doing what. So you need to hash out those details. You need to talk about them to get agreement. OK, we agreed to the time of the conference. We hashed it out. We hashed out the time of the conference. Our next phrasal verb to lighten up. Now remember, I already taught you to cool frustrated, annoyed, and you want to relax. Well, when you tell someone to lighten But they're not angry, frustrated, or annoyed. They're just being. Too. Serious. That's it. They're being too serious. They don't have a sense of humor. So maybe you were joking around too seriously and you just wanted But they're too serious. So you might say, lighten up, lighten You're too serious. So someone who's always like this, you know, They're just always very serious. You might want to tell that person But just remember it isn't the same as cool down. Because cool down, you're angry and annoyed. Lighten up. You're too serious. That's the difference between the two. Our next phrasal verb, to pay off. Now, when something pays off, it means So let's say you spent the last month at home studying for a big exam and you You got a really high mark. You can say all my studying paid off. So remember, something pays off. All my studying paid off. I now see the benefits of all the studying I did. So we use this a lot for any kind Now it can be mental. Work. For studying for your job, Work. As well. So all your dieting, your exercising, You're stronger. You see the benefit of all your work. So we can use this with both mental Phrasal verb. To rule. Out we use. This when something prevents So a classic example, we have Now COVID is preventing So we can say COVID ruled out traveling, right? Kovid prevented traveling. Kovid ruled out traveling. Our next phrasal verb? To chew. Someone. Out. To chew someone out. This is when you tell someone but you tell them angrily so you don't tell them. Calm, calmly. You know you made a mistake. You shouldn't have done that. No, you're angry, so you might yell a little. You might use language that you normally wouldn't. You're angry somebody did something Maybe your boss chewed you out because So your boss was not calm. Your boss was angry. Why were you late? You shouldn't have been late. Why haven't I fired you yet? He chews. You out? Or maybe you're on a sports you out because you missed an important practice. Now if somebody. Chews. You out and they're really angry. What phrasal verb goes with that Cool down, right? Because if somebody's angry. Why were you late? You can say cool down, cool down, Why you were late? Our final phrasal. Verb. To settle in, when you settle in, it means and that new environment is School. A new workplace. And of course, at the beginning you're not But then you need some time to settle in. So settle in just means to get So let's say you move to a new city and a few weeks later a friend could ask Have you settled in? So they're just asking you, do you And then you might reply back and say, yeah, Now that you know how to use all of these phrasal the very beginning and you can compare your So let's do that quiz again. Now question one, please bear me. While I look up. Your file. Please bear with me. While I look. Up your file Question 2. The phrasal verb to attend to means 3. Why are you so angry? You need to cool. You need to cool down #4. The phrasal verb for repair is. The. Phrasal verb for repair is fix up #5. The phrasal verb for. To. Discuss something so you can reach. An agreement is to hash out. To hash out Number six. If someone is being too serious, Lighten up. You're being too serious. Lighten up, #7. After years of studying English, My hard work has finally paid off #8 We We shouldn't rule out hiring a graphic designer. #9 My boss for being late again. My boss chewed me out for Let's give everyone a few minutes too The phrasal verb used when you gradually The phrasal verb is to phase in question two. If you want to reserve a specific time You can block it off. Question three, When the fire alarm everyone cleared out of the building. Question 4:00. We'll have to air conditioning this summer. We'll have to do without question 5. If someone is removed from a position They are forced out of that position. Number six, the phrasal verb used when information becomes clear in one's mind The government had to a lot of The government had to bail out Question 8. Oh no, I think I behind my phone. I think I left behind my phone. Question nine. You don't want to miss this amazing opportunity. Miss out on and question 10. The phrasal verb for arrive is show up. So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or was it difficult? Now I'll explain every phrasal verb in detail To. Phase something in. When you phase something in, it means but you introduce it gradually, which What we're introducing is a new law, a new So let's say that your company has a new A dress code will tell you what Now, let's say they announce the new dress code, but they say we're phasing in the new Now, why would they want to Well, maybe it's because they You might have to go out and So you might have to save money to do that So maybe the first week they introduce the new. Shirts. That they want you to wear and then. The next week. It's the new shoes, and the And little by little, they phase in the new dress. Code. #2 to block. Off. Now, the thing about phrasal verbs is they're So in this context, a block off we're talking specifically about time in your So you're blocking off time. So what does that mean? It means that you reserve that time for a that time so no one else can schedule assign you a task during those specific So let's say you're preparing for the IELTS, and 7:00 to 9:00 in your calendar, and that is the Or if you have an important deadline at So you might block off Monday and just focus So this is probably something you do every And now you know how to explain that And again, remember, phrasal verbs And in this context, we're talking like a restaurant or even a conference, A lot of. People in it generally, and when it means they simply leave the location, So the majority or all of That's when you clear. Out of a. Location. So let's say you go to lunch at a Really busy. You get the last available table You're talking to your Co 30 you look. Around and you notice. That you're the. Only table left in the restaurant. And remember, the restaurant was full when you and say, wow, it really cleared weird out, To do. Without something, this is a really You're going to have to do without certain So when you do without something, it and it's the lack of the So let me give you an example. Maybe finances are a little tight. You didn't get that bonus you were hoping for. So you might say we'll have to do without Do without a cleaner. So a cleaner is someone who cleans your house. A house cleaner. Now, previously a lot of people call this a maid. I know many people in certain In North America, it's considered outdated and even a little politically We now call them house cleaners. So just so you know, it's To use house. Cleaner. So you have to manage manage your Despite the lack of a house cleaner, we have to do without a house cleaner So you can use this in a personal or you can use this in a work context as well. Maybe your assistant quit and you're So you might say, well, I guess I'll have to which means you have to manage all your work It's a very useful phrasal verb certain things at certain points in our life. Our next phrasal verb to force out. This is a very useful business phrasal verb. You're going to hear it in the When someone is forced out, it means that but it wasn't their decision to do so. Notice the sentence structure I used. I put this in the passive to be forced. Out. For example, the CEO was So there's a scandal, obviously. It didn't look. Good for the CEO. So the company wanted him to leave. The CEO himself did not want to leave, but the company wanted him to Now if you use it in the active sentence, So you might say the board of directors So you can absolutely use this in the active, but it's very commonly used in the passive, When something sinks in, it and the something that's sinking For example, it took him a while So his mother died, But that fact, that It didn't become clear, So he didn't process it. He didn't fully understand it. He didn't fully accept it as a So the event, his mother's death didn't sink in. So we do use this a lot for tragic events, but we can also use this with For example, let's say your coworker is and it's pretty technical. So your coworker is explaining it, explaining it, explaining it quite quickly, and you might In. So that is the information, the information your coworker was just explaining, and It means for you to fully So we can use it for tragic events, but we #7 to bail out. This is another must know business phrasal verb, but you can also use it in When you bail someone out, it means them from a financially difficult situation. So remember that CEO that was Well, maybe he had a sister that bailed him out. His. Sister bailed him out, which means so maybe she gave him a place to stay because because he couldn't afford groceries, and she His sister bailed him out. So we can use it in a personal context, but in the sense of the government bailing out And why would the government do that? Well, because that company For example, in the US, the company Chrysler, which is an automobile company, they've been Chrysler as a company has almost and the government has come They bailed Chrysler out number This is a very useful one When you leave something behind, it simply means So we do this all the time, right? We go to a restaurant, a cafe, We get our. Coffee. And we go, and Oh no, I left my phone behind. I think I left my phone behind at the cafe. So it's just the same as saying I You can use this with any object your sweater, your jacket, your So this is a very useful one. So what about you? Have you ever left something important behind? Maybe you left your cell phone behind, or your Have you ever left something behind? Let us know in the comments To miss out on something. And this is when you miss an important opportunity So let's. Say that you. Work for Tesla and Elon Musk was making an. Appearance at your office. That day. And you were going to get to meet Elon Musk. But your bus was late and you didn't get to work You, my friend, just missed out You missed out on meeting Elon Musk. So you could say. I can't believe I missed out. You can just end it there. I can't believe I missed out. If you want to continue, you can say I can't And finally #10 to show up. If show up has a very simple definition, Native speakers don't really use appear What time did you show up? To the party. I would never say what time did you? Arrive. To the. Party. I wouldn't say that that sounds unnatural. Outdated. Too formal. I would say what time did you show up? What time did you show up to the party? What time did you show up last night? Now let's say you got to work standing at your desk as you're walking and your boss might look at you and Show up. That's obviously sarcastic, but Party. Really late. Or even if you're just having dinner at But dinner is normally at 7:00 And your husband or your wife has been waiting they might say, oh, how nice So we use this a lot in a is late, but we also use it just Oh, I showed up at and then you say the time. So now that you feel more comfortable with exact same quiz again and you can compare your So let's do that quiz again. Now question 1, the phrasal verb used when you The phrasal verb is to phase in question two. If you want to reserve a specific time You can block it off. Question three, When the fire alarm everyone cleared out of the building. Question 4:00. We'll have to air conditioning this summer. We'll have to do without question 5. If someone is removed from a position They are forced out of that position number six. The phrasal verb used when information becomes The government had to a lot of The government had to bail out Question 8. Oh no, I think I behind my phone. I think I left behind my phone. Question nine. You don't want to miss this amazing opportunity. Miss out on and question 10. The phrasal verb for arrive is show up. Question one, I used to play video games Question two. Do you know why? Sarah of the meeting. Earlier today. Walked. Out of the meeting question three. Can you add mustard to the shopping list? I just I just used it up. Question 4. You should. Your. Old books to your community store. You should give away question 5. The bridge is because there was an accident. The bridge is blocked off. Question six, my boss said we can Go ahead. Question seven, my company using My company frowns on question eight. I'm sorry I at you during the meeting Can you help me this error sort out question 10? The presentation was really long, So how did you do with that quiz? Was it easy or was it difficult? Well, now I'm going to explain Number one, to block off. This is when you obstruct an exit This is a very common phrasal verb, you may have to take a detour, Route because your regular exit is blocked off. So let's say you get to work 15 minutes late. You can say sorry I'm late, and most likely that street or exit is It's also possible that there was an like a parade or a protest that's preventing When you lash out, it means. You. React angrily. You react with very strong negative emotion, so this phrasal verb is negative, So you might say she lashed out when So you shared an opinion and the person They lashed out. Now, for this phrasal verb, it's She lashed out at me when I The at someone is optional. You don't need to do it, but it So if you want to specify the person, then we use at someone she lashed It could be the entire group she you can explain the reason why she lashed Was late. #3 to walk out. When you walk out, it means So we have another phrasal verb with angrily. You leave a place angrily. So let's say you're meeting with your Now, maybe you were expecting a 20% raise. A raise is a pay increase, a 20% pay increase. But your boss only offered you. 2. Percent, you might say. After my boss offered Me 2%, I walked out. So you left the room, You But you didn't just leave, That's the key here. So combining our last phrasal we can say after she lashed out at This means to resolve a problem. Now we can use this with a For example, let's say your payment processor You might say we need to sort this out ASAP. We need to resolve this problem ASAP. Or who can we call to sort this out? So you can absolutely use this in a professional business context when there's This with. Personal issues with relationship issues So let's say you and your sister haven't Maybe your sister? Lashed. Out at you. And then you walked out of her birthday Well, someone might suggest You need to sort it out with your sister. You need to resolve the problem, and in So this is a great phrasal context and a personal context #5 to use up. This is when you finish or consume And that's very important because so I consumed the olive oil, but when I How much olive oil did I use? I used the olive oil, but if I say I used up the olive oil then you know I So there is none left for you or for More. So I could say I used all the olive oil. When I say all the olive oil, all means 100%. So that is exactly the same as I used up This is when you leave a place or you leave a place without telling other people. Now, this is commonly used with children. So a mother might say, I have to watch my So little kids, they might not stay in a room, But of course that can be dangerous So this is commonly used with young So let's say you're on a museum tour and Now you're supposed was to You're not supposed to wander off and But you might say the. Tour. Was boring, so I wandered off #7 to grow out So to lose interest, you're no longer interested in something because because For example, a lot of young kids play But. As an adult, you might grow out You no longer play video games for hours You're more mature #8 To go This is a very. Useful. Phrasal verb. We use it commonly to give someone So your coworker might ask you, is it OK if I send go ahead, go ahead, which means proceed, Now you can just say go ahead. Or you can specify what the action is. You can say go ahead and send the e-mail ahead with sending the e-mail and send So pay attention to that sentence structure #9 So this is a great phrasal verb for me. I could say I give away my best tips and advice on how to become fluent right Now let's say you have a lot of items from but you have a lot of their clothes, You might want to give that to another parent or someone else for free. We gave away all our kids So when you want to get rid of something in your Provide. It for free. And finally #10 to frown on this So you might say my boss so you can say my boss frowns Notice our sentence structure frowns on wearing. We need our jaron verb. Now that you feel more comfortable how about we do the exact same quiz again Here are the questions. Hit, pause. Take as much time as you hit play to see the answers, Here are the answers. Hit pause. Take as much time as you need, compare your Question one. You're not going to paying $500.00. For that, you're not going Mariah, This sales proposal Yesterday, Good news because everyone, we met the Question 4 If you keep skipping To. Burnout. Question five. That's a great point. You should at the meeting, you should bring it up. Question six Who do you the most in your family? Who do you look up to? Question 7 How long do we need to at the party? How long do we need to stick around? Question A Your tires. Look really you should get new ones. Your tires. Look. Really. Worn out Question 9. The seller tried to so we didn't buy it. The seller tried to rip us off. Question 10. I noticed that this report our production costs. This report honed in on how Was it easy or difficult? Share your score in the comments because now I'll explain Number one to RIP. Off. We use this when someone is selling something the price is too high compared to For example, I can't believe. I paid. $200 for that. She ripped me off. Now notice the sentence structure. You rip someone off. She ripped me off. Another example. She told everyone that I ripped So just because someone claims you Mean It's true. #2 To wear out. We use this when something is damaged or weakened You've used it a lot. For example, I wore out my If someone said that to me, I would assume They played so much tennis that they wore out. Their shoes. They became damaged from use We also use this in an So it would be very common to say I need to So of course are because shoes is plural and My tennis shoes are worn out, so both We use this when you need to prepare paperwork, an agreement, a proposal, generally something that Official. For example, I asked my Whenever you're dealing with a lawyer, the papers. Are going to be. Official so this is a perfect time to use to draw. Up. Or you could say we're waiting for our So that's another very official And you can use the phrasal verb to draw up #4. To. Burn out. This is a phrasal verb that has gotten a lot of Because to burn out, this is mentally or physically, from prolonged stress. Stress of work, stress of a situation situation like a divorce or an illness, You can be stressed out for a day, but that stress for a long period of time, several For example, I burned out at my last job, so perhaps I was working so much that I went I burned out. Another example, I burned out So caregivers often experience burnout. So you can use this in a work situation or you #5 to look up to someone. So notice we have two prepositions. Look up two and then someone. We use this when you admire So I could say I looked up to him like a father. So of course I admire and respect my father and I looked up to him. I admired him like a father. Another example, I really look up to my boss. So you admire your boss or you respect your boss. You hold your boss in high regard. So you can use this in a work situation. You can look up to people. And you can use this in a social You can have many different people in your Number six, to step up. Now, that's the phrase is a verb, but we most Notice that it it's very important This simply means to work harder or to try harder. Now you can say we need to step it up So you have this deadline, So it's the same as saying we need to work. Harder. If we're going to meet the What is this it in the expression? Well, the IT would represent. Work. Or. Effort. We need to step up our work. We need to step up our or effort. Step it up. I encourage you to use it that way. Step it up because you'll We have a really common expression with this. Step it up and then you add the two. Words. A. Notch Step it up a notch. If you look at a dial, A notch is 1. Move on the dial so it represents Step it up a notch. It's just like saying step it up a little bit. So that's just a common expression. You need to step it up a notch So you can use it with a notch. It's very common. Or you can use it without #7 to hone in on. This is another two preposition phrasal verb. We have hone in on hone in on something and to put all your attention on something specific. For example, if we want to get more customers, we So maybe right now you're not being very but you want to hone in on one specific segment So you're going to focus on them. You're going to hone in on them. Another example for the presentation, we So maybe you're a global company and But for this specific presentation, you're going to hone in on one specific Now. Many native speakers, native Many native speakers mistakenly say home in on. We need to home in on and that's because Hone in, home in and hone. What's that? It's not really used very much, But this isn't correct. The expression is not home in on. The expression is hone in on. So make sure you get that both in And if you hear a native speaker say home in phrasal verb to bring up, and this is when For example, if you're in a staff meeting, it is leading the meeting to say before we end the Does anyone have a specific Does anyone have anything to bring up? Or after the meeting you I didn't have a chance to bring so you didn't have a chance to discuss this Maybe you ran out of time #9 to talk to talk someone into something, and this For example, she talked me into helping her move. She convinced me to help her move. So when someone uses this, oh, she It gives you the impression that the person. Didn't really. Want to do the activity but somebody. Convinced them. But please, I really need your help. I'll buy pizza. Or maybe you could say my team talked me into So notice I use bring up discuss My team talked me into bringing up the bonus a little bit of a sensitive issue and nobody Lucky you. So they talked you into. It. And #10 to stick around, this You can use it in a social To stick around means to stay in So let's say you're at this and after an hour or so your friend has to leave And you say, no, I'm going to So you're going to stay in a specific It's unknown how long you'll stay. That doesn't really matter. It's just the fact you're going to stay. I'm going to stick around a little bit longer. It's such a beautiful day. I'm going to stick around now. You can also use this in the negative. I can't stick around very Although it's a beautiful day, I have a meeting to get back. To. Now that you're more comfortable with these So here are the questions you need to choose Here are the questions. Hit pause. Now complete the quiz and whenever you're So go ahead and hit pause now. Welcome back. So how did you do on this quiz? Let's find out. Here are the answers. So hit, pause, review the answers, and whenever Congratulations, you did it. You have at least 200, if not your vocabulary to help you sound fluent Congratulations, of course. Make sure you like this video, share you're notified every time I post a new lesson. And as your reward, I have this free on how to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And why don't you keep improving your