you know, I did not get a chance really to write much this was a way for me and figure a few things out if, The club would like to thank the Bernard Good Lit program, and it is my pleasure Mary Trump. Mary is a psychologist psychopathology Her uncle, a real estate scion reality show celebrity is a person she has written about how my family created which describes which she says In her next book, The Reckoning, she wrote about America reduced to anger not only from the Trump presidency, that enabled Trump to capture the hearts She is joining us today Who Could Ever Love You A Family Memoir, a rather different and more personal work Mary, welcome to the Commonwealth Club. Thank you so much. It's great to be back. It's great to meet you. I've been looking forward to this This is actually my first book So we got to plan events, And this is the first. The first well. Yes. And for our viewers, talking about the book So I'm honored and just a little bit daunted because we're going to cover I guess I better let start off by asking you with the Trump family, Talk about that a bit and also talk about to write it. I starting with the second question first. I think a sort of standard response But I could have read this book. No, no, not this book. And it took it because it it it was not an easy book to write. It wasn't an easy I mean, not but I since I dwelled in it to the extent The memoir. Yes. Remembering a wounded childhood and saying it out loud and then to the world, Yeah. And I think I came to realize which have not gone to plan, staring me right in the face You know, obviously, my my first book in July 2020, and that kind of set But, you know, as as other people were And I needed to figure out why, I was having a very hard time with all of the amazing people since my first book came out. And, you know, I've had the privilege of sort of pivoting who's commenting on the current state And it was all happening and I just wasn't And I realized that it was because It wasn't just because since 2016, November of 2016. It was because of all of these things And, you know, to write much about my own life a psychological history of a family, I don't really consider it a memoir It was a very important book But, you know, a lot of the stories weren't in there So this was a way and figure a few things out if, Yeah. And I think part of what you're saying it was even with all the therapeutic recognition, even with all of the healing, if you've been not to spoiler alert, if you've been raised in a lack of love, if you are raised to believe you can come on the other side of that But it's still hard to act that way. And so in that sense, the book is a service Yeah, I hope so. You know, and I think this did start and how we're all traumatized by the last. Well, some of us are traumatized but all of us are traumatized I mean, COVID left nobody unscathed. And, you know, it makes future traumas You know, you can't heal from trauma while you're in the process And that's something I've come to. I mean, I knew that, I never really dealt with that personally. And, you know, if if my telling my story of trauma can help anybody what they're experiencing, That would be that's very important to me. Well, it's a service. And as such brave and commendable this isn't weird is This is a You write at the beginning I have been subsisting And I started writing this book with stress, with self-loathing, So. Well, You know, that's fascinating that I've never heard those words out loud. Well, I guess I did when I was recording it's a different experience Yeah. Yeah. So how am I doing? Well, other than getting over COVID, I've never had COVID before. Wow. It's awful. So, you know, I'm making strides. But other than that, I honestly having this being able coming out because, again, I did have a few months to prepare myself, like 2 minutes So I think knowing that there were going to be public knowing that which I'd never done before it kind of motivated me in a way, because I've been, you know, I've been hiding and it doesn't I mean, I understand it, I want to accomplish So I'm not going to pretend that I'm totally fine because that will take a lot more work, But having having these moments to to look forward to and work Well, and I hope talking about it, just now, but that's also the process And I hope going out and talking about it normalize it. I must say. I mean, my experience doesn't have But nonetheless, there are parts and you have to work on these it's not weird. It's not a source of shame So let's get into the specifics. A little bit of history So there's some context for your story. Talk about Fred Trump, senior, He's kind of the the original sin here, as it were. Who was he? And what was he like? I think the about my grandfather, Donald's father, And I. I mean that diagnostically He was somebody devoid of human feeling. He had very tight control over his world, which consisted of his business which, by the way, we called the house. I still find that fascinating. And it was always capital H house. We're going to the house. He was very much in the mold of a man who grew up in the He was born in, I think, 1905, very much a man of his time. He had very little use for women and believed that your oldest son and would be the inheritor And in my grandfather's case, So my dad had the great misfortune And when my grandfather found that by the way, my father tried and failed. My grandfather judge too harshly from the beginning Not as you would expect. Like he wasn't spoiled, he wasn't given preferential treatment Jr successor. He was treated worse. He was deprived in a way So he got a lot of attention. But it was all negative Sadly, my father was not a tough person. He was actually a very sweet, very talented person who may have done He just wasn't given a chance because, which by the way, My dad just did it. Did it matter for up so, you know, it was doomed from the start. He was doomed from the start mattered. Not at all. The only other person who mattered to my grandfather was Donald, So for various reasons, Donald became the person who was going to be elevated, to be the successor, So the rest of us jump Uncle. When you say he didn't measure up, He wasn't Fred Trump or. Well, I think my grandfather wanted a killer. That was his term. He wanted a killer. I don't know why one needed to be a killer and Brooklyn or to build buildings But that's what was required. And again, it didn't make sense. But whatever it meant, my father couldn't do it and he needed somebody. Well, I don't necessarily know But then Donald came along. There was this very self-promoting. My dad called Donald the Great. I am I he was a narcissist He was a bully. And my grandfather liked what he saw and wanted somebody And who could move into Manhattan in a way because my grandfather just wasn't good So my dad quickly, he was pushed aside. And, you know, after he left the company to become an airline pilot for CWA in 1964 there was literally no place for him Yeah. And we'll get back to that dynamic because But now let's turn that to your mother. Who who was your mother, My mom was grew up in a working class family. She grew up for the most part in Michigan. And my my grandfather, was a he owned a feed company. And then he was a long haul trucker. But then my grandmother had terrible so they had to move to Florida, and my grandfather there bought a So after a fairly idyllic childhood in Michigan, my mom was displaced You know, 13 is not a good age And she struggled of the synchronized She had no intention of going to college, and was on vacation in the Bahamas with a friend of hers, My dad was a sophomore, He was already flying. He got his private and commercial pilot's licenses and they agreed to meet in Manhattan. And, you know, they hit it off. But then nothing happened And in the interim, she became a a stewardess for a national airlines And then that's that's when she and my dad met up again and eventually got engaged and married. It's interesting flying in air travel were so associated with glamor and freedom. And for various reasons, life of glamor and freedom. It they couldn't see themselves What do you think they saw in each other? It's difficult to explain. Our parents may be, but yeah. What do you think Because she is a problematic character Yeah, that's fitting it well. Well, first of all, I just want to say and would have continued, but at that time you could not be married So her very last flight, And then she became a receptionist I mean, credit where credit is due. And then she had to quit that job pregnant and women weren't allowed to work So she got completely trapped by that. Really disappointing. I mean, I wonder how if she could have continued to fly I think my my dad, first of all, I think she was 19 and she was 22 Which is it? It's insane. I know that was quite common back then, but that's just seems completely crazy So part of it was that it was time, right? And she was extreme, highly attractive and very she admired him And I think at the time you know, and they enjoyed the same kinds of things. They they loved And my dad had a plane and friends out to Bimini for the weekend Right. And she could keep up with him. And I think he also liked that. But let's get to the big part of the book, inside this world. By the time you show up, And it's fair to say that your experience I broadly is kind of a continuous and often casual failure to see or acknowledge you. Yeah, I think, you know, one of the one of the hardest things about my childhood in retrospect, and recognize this at the time, if you ask anybody who knew him like people to this day say that they had He was the kindest, He was an extraordinarily talented pilot. By the time I was born, that person So I was sort of deprived And my parents were trapped in this not particularly nice apartment in a building My mother struggled with depression. My dad, which again was the second And he had this amazing job, but he quit So his drinking was out of control So that was sort of the Well, was. Also being shamed by his grandfather. You say he giving up his dream about his father's expectations, Your father called him a glorified bus Yeah. Or your grandma? Yes. Fred called your father So, yeah, it's kind of hard to know that made him quit At least in reading the book. It was the shame that caused him to drink, And I think he was asked to resign if he had been fired, his license But he retained his license. But yes, my grandfather, I think, was the only person on the planet how ridiculously cool and amazing in 1964. We'll get into that in a sec. There is a kind of sometimes almost willful cruelty like your mother ignores these life or this absolutely ludicrous letter shows up from some anonymous person to her to create a kind of sense of shame in you, I don't know. But what's compelling that you think, Is there just a massive self-involvement? What what what made that happen? Yeah, I think part of it was a need for attention. This all, it's kind of complicated. And interestingly, because I don't really know but some of it was just to back up I started having very bad asthma attacks I had a serious case of croup before if you have croup, And they were really bad attacks. And this was after So she's a single mother of two She's depressed and has no resources. You know, We had an apartment that again, But, you know, it wasn't particularly She didn't have money, so she was trapped. She was effectively trapped and had and an ex-husband whose family utterly disdained her and who had written off my dad. So she had none of the benefits extraordinarily wealthy, So perhaps it was her way Perhaps it was her way of refusing or refusing to be the only person You know, like, at two in the morning Why do I have to do it? And I think over time that the words my attacks got, spending days at a time in the hospital, You know, and got taken care of But if I'm in the hospital for four And she got a lot of sympathy because she was my mom. And this is bordering on Munchausen Yeah, Yeah. So you're living in this apartment And as I read it, just as an aside your own trust fund is paying the rent So your mother's in between. And then you're going to this place, where there's all this wealth, what's and your take it you're given a private school this is really under Fred's sufferance What was it like kind of continuously living in these two worlds Absence of wealth gap? It was normal. I mean. I kid, everything's normal. You have no comparison. Yeah, I was aware. I was. I was definitely aware of, my grandparents house was in Jamaica Estates, which is where There, completely different worlds. Jamaica Estates well, at the time, 100% And Jamaica was working predominately black when I was growing up. Obviously but still a predominantly So, you know, I, I took the subway to my private school and understood that, you know, other kids What were you, a part of Jamaica? I felt completely grounded there. I felt completely I didn't feel at home in my home, but I felt at home in Jamaica, even though I recognized that I kind of stood out, you know, I was on the subway wearing my private school So I wasn't exactly But that's probably one of the best things that ever happened Yeah, I mean, there's and that gets to what comes through. And we were discussing this a little bit The chief dynamic which extends to your mother's is a kind of system of withholding. That attention is withheld, friendship is withheld, love is withheld as a means to control people they have to ask for things that should just be given They have to ask for that scheme how am I going to get it this time? And Fred's at the top of that, right, Fred is at the top of that and there's As you said, your father couldn't figure out what measuring up means. Yeah, that is And what I think of certainly Dad's generation and also to an extent mine there was something we could do, right, like he was the most important person the guy barely acknowledged my existence. But still, we all strive desperately to figure out, okay, what is it I need to do to get Grandpa to think I'm worth something, right? And none, none of us. None of us ever realized because he literally didn't And what's strange to an independent is how very powerful and effective and addictive that is. Why can't anybody just say, You're crazy? I'm out of here, you know, But you can't. It's people are addicted and the signal is irregular, And your father breaks down He tries to move it into the house, even though that's the place where it all Yeah, it's it's a terrible cycle of dependance and control. And, you know, again, we all participated My mother kept going back to the house for holidays, years Like very often she would be there for Thanksgiving and Christmas, She kept going even after my dad died. And it's very difficult to. I think the idea of of having it, of describing it as addictive because there's really No, it wasn't like she was going there No, they hated her. They treated her utter contempt just leaving me to kind of which would have been easier You know, And even my, you know, my mom, Marianne, who was also part of the same same behaviors They were the two oldest children. They felt like And she was in an abusive marriage, had very serious You know, my grandparents knew that she was an abusive relationship And she probably had a trust fund. I mean, these are very wealthy people, until he just took off some one day. And then in her own way, though, even though she became a federal judge. And the only thing my dad, at her swearing in was, well, You know he didn't care. He did not care about anybody's I mean, this is kind of the great paradox. He is the great with Holder. He is the great dementia. He is addictive. I got to say, reading this book, he's He really isn't a very interesting person. So how does he keep this? Hold on, everybody. Well, if you're the wielder of it whom you're willing it are all dependent And all of his children always were because he had the money and money stood in for every thing. It was literally And you know what happens to somebody who who is not valued in any way What happens to siblings whose brother died at the age of 42? Well, they keep it all for themselves something. It was the only the only measurement And yeah, he was he was a deeply boring I mean, as you can perhaps imagine, to have conversations with these people I mean, they had no interest They only talked about sort of New York and women they thought were ugly and men Like that I was completely ill equipped to engage. And not that anybody had any interest in And yet they are there. Their lives themselves are the unoriginal wrong. A weird void is echoing down through the generations. You say in the book, All relationships in my family You also say, I like this law suits a lack of trust a sense of material gain as signifying something, a need to get back and to win approval, I'm not going to psychoanalyze this, but hey, I've got a psychologist right here. When you hear your uncle on the campaign using rhetoric like, wouldn't Should I fire those people, to kind of give him permission Bullying or transgressive. Do you have echoes of Jamaica Estates? Yeah, Donald has an audience of one very much like my Aunt Marianne. He's still looking And, you know, because Donald knows on a deep level that he is the loser, that he's And that is something He knows that he knows what the faith was My dad was essentially killed off he didn't measure up to these immeasurable And, you know, Marianne lived to be, I think, 85. And, you know, when I she together, even in her late she was clearly trying to figure out how to get her you know, mystified And for both of these people, you know, that void And sadly And it speaks because the point eventually of raising You don't want them always depending on In a sense, they should become themselves. But there's something Or maybe he's just the bad seed. But there's an interest that's kind of broken. Yeah, that is one of the I, as I said, like at all, and yet he needed us around. You've said that it's maybe, if not surprising, still shocking Yeah. You know, he could have he probably had a lot of money And he could have gone off flying his planes and lived his life I got to. Admit, I was yelling at your book like, right. And he couldn't. But what's even more shocking, when you see how abused my grandfather So I don't believe towards the end Plus, of course, he was very ill. He had open heart surgery when he was 39 who smoked two packs of cigarets a day. What's much more mystifying to me is why my grandfather wanted my dad around. He had nothing but contempt for him. And yet I think part of Like, he didn't want people to see son and namesake was such a loser. But I think it was also the the ability to sort of wield Like I refer to my grandfather As far as I know, he had five destroyed And I just think on some level he enjoyed seeing how much of an impact he still didn't even care about. Okay. I'm going to go there. If grandpa is a totalitarian when you see your uncle with a Vladimir Putin, a Kim Jong Il of Viktor Orban, fill in the blank. What's going on there for you? Yeah, it's awful, actually. As he's seeking the approval of another dictator, to a dictator? Also, what is knowing us about history? Are politicians driven by a lack Well, some are for sure. I mean, Donald certainly is. He he again, unconsciously knows that You know, he he's he's unloved because he's been rendered unlovable So I think part of it is trying to fill Like if he can have the kind of power Jong un has, Of course it won't. But he also has deluded himself into He deserves to rule in perpetuity Like, that's the lie The weirdest thing, I have watching him with the Putin, for example, is his subservience. He was never subservient so I'm not entirely sure but that is still something I grapple with trying to understand because Donald, when my grandfather was still a vital, strong man, Donald Trump treated like he was an equal, if not slightly beneath him. When my grandfather started and losing his capacity to to remember and to be in charge, Donald It was quite disgraceful. Okay. You say he is unlovable or feels he is incapable of love, but I think it's safe to say that He's doing fine running for president How much what accounts Does a significant part of the country Does a significant part of a country and feel this power of withholding psychoanalyze America for a minute? No problem. We really need it. We need being given lots of therapy. Well, Loved by total strangers is very different You know, and he doesn't love anybody. It's it's it's a tragedy because of how it affects all of us. That is that is not where you want to be So, you know, and I'm sure most people do not, He was who again, was rendered Because my father, for it So what is wrong with 40% of America? Well, any any society has about, who are just sort of, you know, the worst of us right there. There are people who have There are people who don't like change. They like being told what to do. They they like strongmen. And, you know, we can safeguard. I think one of the main main to keep those people from power. And that Donald gets into the White House, probably the greatest tragedy in America And that significant minority grows and the disease of ignorance and intolerance and cruelty spreads, it metastasizes and suddenly next thing It's 40, 45%. And that's where we are now. The question for all of us what do we do to reverse that trend? Obviously, if the worst thing happens and he gets back But let's be hopeful and let's say, okay, if he loses, is the fever going to break? What do we need to do to make sure, no. One, that this kind of thing And to we help people see that this is the this is not the path we can be on if we want to have the kind of society that is going to make all of us I think in this, you know, the the sort of short version of you know, why is that? There are a lot of people in this country They like his cruelty. They like the fact that he lies They like the fact that he's a criminal They like the fact that he's a loser We have to we have to face that. We have to face that. There are tens of millions of people like what he's done to us. In times of confusion, authoritarianism But at this point, and a convicted felon. That doesn't seem to slow people down. So, no, no. And also, that he's often been or worsening it. Okay. We have questions from the audience Can you talk about how you became to study clinical psychology? Yeah, I for reasons that I'm not in, My mother was always She and my dad had seen a marriage I mean, maybe it ended the way it should You know, I as as a kid struggled for obvious reasons with depression I had a very hard time after my dad died. And, you know, I think that I was consistently in therapy from the time I was 16 to the time I was in my mid-thirties. Then I took a break and I didn't until I had to go away for trauma treatment in 2017. So it was through through my experiences But it's particularly that that made me realize that that psychology was something that I thought was worth I I'd always wanted to be a writer, see a path forward for various reasons. And when I was at Columbia grad school for English Lit, I had also taken a course which also really resonated with me in a way that deconstruction did not. So I think it was both that experience and being in group therapy and seeing what a powerful tool that led me to shift gears and take some courses. And then finally It is notable that you were sent back. Well, set back and sent back into therapy Do you see those two as being related? totally. And again, it's not because He wasn't. We'd been estranged, I don't know, since 2012 and I guess 1999. But, you know, suddenly, like, I didn't care that he had a reality I didn't care about any of that. And I basically done my best from having anything to do with my family. But then suddenly he's running and he's everywhere I can ignore The Apprentice. I can ignore a presidential campaign. And I certainly couldn't And it just suddenly And it was incredibly debilitating. Plus, he was divisive in a way I lived in a very Republican town, and excuse me, it had never mattered. It started to matter. And and that also took a toll. Let's take another question And this one's very to the point. How do you find emotional space clients? I think that could be asked Yeah, well, luckily I don't, so I don't have to grapple with that. But I do know from former colleagues that especially after the election it was extraordinarily difficult Another question What is the best way to break the I think it depends on who who's the source of it. And, you know, sometimes you need to make a clean break, but more than anything, you need to get help in dealing with that you can do alone, especially long term trauma that becomes complex. Post-Traumatic stress disorder, You know, it's when trauma is repeated over time, it's incredibly debilitating. And, you know, again, we whether in the election or during COVID. And if you've already suffered You know, and I think it's also very important to recognize that trauma. You can't cure it. You can only manage it, mitigate the effects of it. Yeah. And you, you know, I was sort call for this country, to the mental health crisis And that didn't happen. So anybody listening just realized that, you know, getting help because untreated psychiatric disorders You know, it It takes work and it doesn't You know, you don't traumatize ourselves, but it's true. So I guess one way to look at it is to do something about it. And and that can be very helpful make us feel like I don't think Nothing is fair in this. What are you going to do about it Is more of the issue. You know? You know, another audience question now that your book will be published is there an additional story or included. that is a really good question. Probably. You know, I made a very specific decision to make the first three parts of only the first 17 years of my life to get to present day issues, because I thought that, you know, to the experiences eight years. But, yeah, I mean, undoubtedly it is. It is. It's quite tricky figuring out, you know, what what aspects of your life to share in, because let's face it, that one is, is, is sharing the information It was very important to me But at the same time, so that the the narrative arc is compelling and makes sense and fits. So I can't think of any things specifically right now, but I want to think about it sure there are many things simply because I, you know, they didn't move the narrative in a in a way, I wanted the narrative to move. Well, I assure you, touches on various emotional dimensions, but you're also paying attention And structurally, Yeah. Too much is not information. Yeah, I did want to ask you this to you by your own description, initially, and then even more so in the wake of COVID, But you've also put yourself in a position of being a hero and a villain People who don't have a chance of meeting you have opinions about you of all sorts. The positive and the negative ones about the same level of information. You have a YouTube show called The Mary Trump Show. Are you still are you kind of occupying Yeah, Well, I think part of that is I you know, in 2017, and reported, as did The New York Times the vast story they published in 2018 about my my family's financial history. And that was completely private And that was great with me. And it probably would have been very bad the needle That's when my first book came in, It's like if I have an opportunity to create a platform to discuss what I believe needed to be discussed in in the lead up to the 2020 election, And that's what I've continued to do. It hasn't always been comfortable. But, you know, sadly for for many, many reasons, Donald remains and we are far too close for comfort It's devastating. But here we are. And, you know, the time for me On the other hand, though, as a kid, I was extremely outgoing. I had an enormous amounts of confidence. And, you know, maybe I guess Not that it doesn't you know, it's funny naturally who I was, But maybe I need to kind of channel what I've been doing is just sort of not not finding it that comfortable. But, you know, it's not like I'm I'm pretending to be something. I was those things decades ago. But still, you know, 16 years of my life. I got to break the fourth wall here dealing with day 12 of COVID, I did not bring a watch. We have a time check. How much? okay. We have a little bit more time. Let's talk because he has not come up, but he's mentioned in the book And of course, Have you read his book? No, I haven't. And you two are estranged. Four things. Do you feel there's that source of has to do with this dynamic or is something else going on? I mean, I think in some ways how you grow up in this family and know how to do anything. I think that's part of it. And I mean, I cannot pretend to know what my brother's motives are, he made a choice to try to remain part of the Trump family. And I made the opposite choice. It doesn't work for me. I, I don't I personally don't see how I can maintain my sense of who I am and be part of that family. Yeah. That, you know, it's not only on the personal side. They destroyed my father. They tried to destroy my mother. They treated us horribly and cruelly. But then there's I mean, they. Donald Trump is a fascist, and I do not in any way understand wanting to be aligned with somebody like that, And that's my position. I you know, I'm not it's well, it's I feel. This is a slightly awkward moment But I still I must raise it. Your brother seems to have broken with you over your choice of partner. Superficially. But it really happens He's not Judge Metal. When you're in love with another woman, he's judgmental And somehow I couldn't help but think this somehow speaks to the family This somehow takes it into an area Maybe I'm wrong, but it's a it's notable. It's not about being a lesbian. It's about being a lesbian with a child. Yeah. And again, I don't And we did try. About eight years after that, Like, we were back in contact for a while after that. That, of course, ended my first book and the lawsuit But yes, it was. It was very odd. And again, So I don't know how he felt about my being in a relationship with a woman, how he felt about our having a child abundantly clear, not talking to me. And and again, So I was left to speculate and you know, that that played a pretty significant role in our inability to heal the rift successfully That's another dimension of growing up You can't ever why things happen. There's no room to discuss things. Right? Yeah. Yeah, that's We didn't talk about anything. Any of us in any real way. It was too scary. And I often feel like that's sort We're so afraid. And none of this is weird. It just. We elect to feel like it's weird. Right. You write really calm while we discuss You have written about them. I commend you, but it's hard It really is. And and I think that's a big part of of because it's it's very isolating that you have to keep because you're afraid you'll be judged something about you It it it cuts us off. And I think this has been a big part We've been we've been existing, subsisting on this very narrow You know, it's all been fear and anger and And I think one of the reasons Vice President Harris's with so many people, it's suddenly like are deeply human joy and happiness. And and it's like, okay, you go. And it's as if we've been in a dungeon opened the door and. We're feeling the sun on our faces So I think I think you're right. We whether it's cultural or historical so many of us are afraid we're we're worried And it might be, to something that we aren't experiencing because And often it's it's sacrificing for. If it starts in childhood. Children tend to fetishize their shame And the fact is, it's just not that weird, you went through. But it's a it's a human story. These things happen to people. And that's sort of the story of trauma In order to, a severely traumatic event, you cut it off from the feelings. Like, I have absolutely no feelings about being in that bed, suffocating to death I have no feelings. It that means that I haven't done enough work. I have to feel those feelings. But the thought of that is absolute mind because those feelings are going to kill I don't want to feel them, but I need to. We all need to in And I think if we trust Change gears as we come. The final question, the elevation of Kamala Harris and her strategy of never taking the bait, of never reacting to the bully side is doing to your uncle? He's not having a good time. He is. He is he is literally panicked. Every panicked and enraged and terrified pretty much constantly at this point. And it's really gratifying taking the tack she's taking. I advocated for that in 2020. But, you know, unfortunately, still were were acting And clearly it is not. So she definitely has his number. And I think the debate next What are you looking for? I'm looking for her to press him. I'm looking for her to stop him in his tracks and to push back and not to let him get away And I'm looking for her to tell him what she thinks of him because he does not deserve by the respect of the office Because nobody has done more to to demean the office So, you know, he often gets treated with kid gloves And and I think that has to stop. And I think she is the person not not to coin a phrase, And I'm pretty sure she's looking forward Well, all this you're on a mission to normalize America. Well, good luck. A little healthier. Let's get healthier and let's get kinder. That would be good. Yeah. Okay. Well, we've reached the point I very much enjoyed this conversation. I commend on your courage and your success in writing this book Our thanks to Mary Trump, author of We encourage everyone to pick up a copy of If you'd like to watch more programs effort in making virtual and in-person please visit I'm Quentin Hardy. Thank you. And care.