There's a 99% chance that you are making one of the that I've seen in my many years of teaching 1,847 bass lessons, answering 16,955 student comments and even analyzing 102 just to add gravity to this paragraph. I can confirm that every and even a lot of intermediates if not more, of the Now you might try, as many do to solve all your technique of separate exercises, but your practice into a bloated hours-long mess. You get horribly bored your well of motivation runs dry. Welcome to technique practice hell. So here at BassBuzz Labs, I concocted one monstrously effective blunder buster exercise that'll get you out of with just 10 minutes of daily drilling. One killer riff that each dial to specifically fix one of the five big bass blunders. And this... sorta looks like beat poetry. From level one, where literally anyone working up to the more which will help you iron out But is this just another I wanted to make sure it really worked. So my students on the BassBuzz with a two-week challenge. We'll see exactly how much they improve at the end of the video. But before we get there, you really gotta fix this first blunder. It's a killer and it catches Can you spot the difference between a pro playing a bass line and a novice playing the same thing? Yep, the difference besides the Victor Wooten has a better hat is flying fingers, the And flying fingers don't look like a dorky n00b hand, they also cause huge issues Even in my pristine professional paws, flying fingers can totally So here's my normal playing. Sounds fine. And here's flying fingers when I started out. Check out the clunk and And at high speed, it gets even worse. And you might be doing I thought Josh was massively exaggerating when he does his terrible But no, that IS what my hands look like. So you really need to fix this. How do you do it? There are infinite boring I imagine you've seen a couple, and frankly, many of them are good until they send you into dying of boredom. And one of the secrets to is finding non-torture ways to practice like the music-based in level one of the But to avoid flailing you need to do some bare minimum prep with the fretting game one on, one off. First hover all four fingers and now press down one finger at a time. Change up the order, increase And that's one on. Now one off is the tricky bit. You press all four fingers down and now lift one finger at a time. Like really just one. This doesn't exactly mimic but it'll develop your And if you can do that you're ready to nail the simple but still cool sounding level one of the blunder buster exercise. And level five is gonna There's a free PDF in the description with full fingerings and The starting goal here is to gradually get your fingers As you get more advanced, you can even stay on the neck sometimes like you see me doing. The next big bass blunder because it afflicts but it's impossible to see. It's the difference between playing this and playing this. It's the exact same thing, Ow. Because blunder number We all do it. Here's why. When you're first learning bass, you have to actively focus to not get buzz, like the evil kind of BassBuzz. It feels like a lot of effort, but your fingers quickly get stronger in the first month or two of playing. Then just out of habit, with the same perceived high effort. But now that your fingers are stronger, you'll actually be pressing just to get clean notes. As Sarah puts it, you might have a vice And any pressure beyond the tires you out, makes and it just hurts. Good luck getting through if you're smooshing into a piece of solid wood. So how do you fix an invisible bad habit to nail level two of the You need some prep work that Once you do this, you'll feel more like Sarah did after a couple weeks of practice. Having it in my head to think about fretting I keep doing a mental check. The trick is to be an MVP and play with minimum viable pressure. I thought of that. So check it out. Rest your index finger on but don't press down yet. And now try plucking that note, and it's not a note yet, right? So we know this is not enough pressure. Duh. Now if you add pressure gradually, you'll get to a rattling sound Once you get there, press until you get a clean note. And now stay at that pressure This is how fretting should feel. It's less energy spent and less painful. So to test this out on level two, I suggest going one note at a time. Aim for minimum viable Latch onto that feeling and that'll set you up to nail The longer you play, the more you'll go back to so you gotta keep reminding yourself. I still practice this even And it's totally okay to hang with levels one and two for The point is to make progress, Once you fix these first two fails, your fretting hand will look solidly good and feel solidly also good. But as you know from having a human body, there's a whole another You might play something like &quot;I Want To Be Sedated,&quot; But this next blunder, makes a killer basslines like this, sound like this. You hear the difference? The plucks became super which happens to basically everyone when they first learned As you know, from 5 million we alternate plucking which gives you way more speed potential than just plucking with one finger. But these fingers don't know until you train them up. And this issue is most obvious in a chugging bass line Chugging just means you're rim bim bim bim bim bim. Honestly, you'll naturally as you practice plucking especially with my comprehensive to badass course, which will give you a with plenty of plucking practice, plus all the knowledge you and create your own basslines. But why get better over time patiently? When you can grasp for quick results with a targeted exercise. So to get ready to target your plucking in level three of the you need to prep by developing First, do some uneven and practice going loud, soft, loud, soft. Because uneven isn't bad, it's just not what you want sometimes. Once you can do that, flip it around and play one and two and. And now that both fingers you can try doing loud, loud or go soft, soft. Mess around to try to Switch between the different patterns and that awareness and control sets you up to nail level three. Make sure you check the which has suggestions for plus detailed fingerings, including how to actually on this level. And now we've got the but this next bass blunder Because you're jamming away, your technique is working, until all of a sudden... So what happened? His wrist is too bent. His plucking fingers are and it's 'cause he sucks Oh, octaves, the glory from higher ground to uprising to Mario underground theme. Why must you suck to play so much? Well, it doesn't actually have to suck. Level four is gonna give you But before you can work on that safely, you must beware the wrath of duck wrist. This terrible thing when we're fretting octaves in particular, quack, quack, quack. It hurts but you can solve it Just make sure your strap is high enough so the neck's not too low down. Tilt the neck up so that it's even higher. And then put a little so that your wrist can be straighter. You can see in Sarah's before in her wrist, which probably hurt, but after a couple weeks of practice, there's significantly less duck wrist, more on her progress at So if you noodle your of the exercise in slow motion, you should now be able But if you actually you're probably stumbling Because sometimes you gotta Sometimes it's low, high, low, high. Sometimes low, low, high. It's just like yikes. So to stop stumbling and nail this level, you need the rarely taught but highly necessary So check it out. Normally, your index and to each other. You cross strings and they move as a unit along with the wrist and the whole family. But when you're jumping quickly between the low and you need to split up the family. So the index stays by the low string and the middle stays by the high string. And this is the secret to getting speed and non-stumbles when you're on octaves. So back to the exercise you'll finger split and then they unsplit for low, low. For the next octave pattern, finger split for all four, And then the final two patterns, there's no finger split needed since the notes are doubled low, low, high, high. And with some patient practice, If you really keep putting in small but consistent your technique will until you make this final blunder. Because your technique but then watch what What happened? He's on a highway to hell with a classic death by When you push your speed, your technique inevitably backslides. And while your personal goals at some crazy level, plenty of popular iconic of speed to play. So getting all these techniques and that's why you should and get really solid and Are you tired of me saying But besides just starting slow, you can make speedy runs in level five easier by Because by working the you get a single point of focus, which means less So if you're staring at this and thinking holy f**k, son of a *****, isolating your hands will make Just rest your plucking and start slowly going through and kind of hum the basslines to yourself. You don't need to hammer just act as though you're fretting. This is a great way to put and minimum viable pressure Once that feels okay, mute the strings with the fretting hand and do only plucking. So look at what string the to figure out which Again, humming is really helpful. Notice where you have challenges Come up with a game plan. Again, I have a detailed Make sure you're using where appropriate and work up your speed. And now with your hands both it should be a much smoother process to get up to speed than going in cold. And you've got a shot at working your way through the final level five. And after two weeks of daily practice, here's how much our friends on the BassBuzz forum And now that your fingers aren't flying, you're plucking evenly, you can nail faster runs, it'll be way more fun to learn songs like the first 50 songs So you know, just like, click on that now. Okay? Bye! Okay, the door's actually this way.