Transcriber: Belle QS [You might] notice I'm holding cue cards. I'm holding cue cards because they are going to help me while at the same time shielding me from painful memories Because my story In fact, every time I tell my story, I'm retraumatized. But if sharing my story means that one more girl then it's worth it for me. Growing up in my family wasn't easy. Mental health problems and abuse can destabilize a family. But abuse doesn't just exist in a vacuum. It doesn't just start or stop It permeates every action Mental health problems and abuse led to neglect, and neglect left me a very young girl. I distinctly recall going back to school. I remember each year, &quot;Write down what you did that summer.&quot; I was so ashamed; I was paralyzed. I didn't go to summer camp. No, I didn't go to the cottage. I was the kid that played There was no regular structure. There was no routine for most anything. One summer, I was raped by a stranger; another, abused and degraded I was always in fight-or-flight mode. It seemed like danger What I learned that summer was how to remain hypervigilant, something that no young girl But it didn't stop I would later be abused at the hands And it was his words that kept me trapped. When he said, &quot;Your parents won't love you anymore in my isolated environment, And my behaviors started to reflect I don't remember a time back then when my body ever felt like my own. At 17, I started moving from club to club. I first started stripping. Then later, I worked for a smut magazine, where I would meet some of the most dangerous people Still, I was on this never ending quest to have some form of agency a source of power I had never had before. One day, my phone rang. I was looking at my gas gauge, It was my old co-worker He called me to tell me he was running and he wanted me The word &quot;stable&quot; Well, on the outside, except it wasn't. This massage parlor had 10 rooms, There were between 40 to 60 A massage was between 40 and 50 dollars. We'd get a 10-dollar commission if you didn't have a fine. And you could have a fine being late, talking back or not having a perfectly primped body. It was expected that the girls could earn by doing extras. And by doing extras, I am talking about some of the most Police raids, they occurred in these places, but no police officer, no bylaw official No one ever said, &quot;Hey, is there somewhere else you'd rather be?&quot; or &quot;I know somebody you can call. Can I connect you two?&quot; And this would be my life Maybe you're listening to my story and you're thinking, But I wasn't foolish. I was vulnerable, I was naive and I was a perfect target. I didn't have a sense of belonging. I didn't feel wanted or valued I had started to deceive myself: &quot;This is my choice. But in hindsight, there wasn't much choice involved at all. This wasn't work; it was trafficking. I was told how to dress, who to have sex with, where to live - everything. I felt scared almost all the time. The man who recruited me, he manipulated me into thinking and believing my boyfriend, except he wasn't. He was my trafficker, Over time, he made me a manager - made me. This was not an act of saving me. This was not a promotion. This was him trying to build his status On paper, he ran a licensed body rub parlor. This allowed him to look This license allows you to rub, knead or stimulate Officially, these words don't mean but my experience suggest differently. Somewhere between the letter of the law, the predatory practices the willingness for police our city has created A massage parlor keeps the schedule, manages all of the advertising and fields all of the calls, freeing up a trafficker Buyers, they don't have to go to a seedy motel. Massage parlors and holistic centers, the ones on the way they provide a facade of acceptability, safety and option on a woman's part. But even worse, the fact that all of this means that we are enshrining a man's right to buy a living, breathing human being. That's what we're talking about. This is what sex trafficking It is the brothel hidden in plain sight, where women are trapped And here, all of us, all of us are deceived into believing that what's happening is a woman's choice. You see, our cities license And in their point of view, they're not officially granting but they are well aware Not all massage centers are like this. No, legitimate owners, They don't advertise their staff on escort websites. So how are these types of massage parlors, how are they able to thrive? Here in Canada, each municipality has the power and control The higher levels of government, yet they take no responsibility by saying that they don't the municipalities do. Even one of our more celebrated was found inside a massage parlor, It's as if we're saying, But I refuse to believe that; I was in a meeting with the most high senior officials I specifically asked. I said, &quot;You guys know Their response? &quot;Yeah, we know that these are Everyone knows about this problem, yet no one is taking the lead to solve it. I eventually escaped my circumstances. I literally slept for three days straight. It was my soul that hurt, for where there was no hospital. Discovering my faith guided me to seek counselling, where my journey to recovery began. Because you see, getting out is one thing, but staying out, that's just as hard. With this understanding, I want to be a part of the solution. I want to help end We offer services to women. They'll contact us medical care, food assistances, many other services as well. We also provide- I'm sorry, we also provide and we advocate to change our laws because this problem There really are more victims out there Some enter this others, children and youth, they're lured out of foster care, or from their own families. The common thread is that traffickers look to exploit common thread, all the time. Where I was trafficked, The massage parlor I was at That doesn't include any of the money made in the rooms by the girls - that's what we know It doesn't include any money or by other things, Imagine for a second, that's just one. Imagine thousands Well, as a survivor, I believe we have to tackle that foster trafficking That's why in 2014, I spoke out against sexual exploitation before the Justice I helped to lobby called &quot;Protection of Communities We advocated for Canada to adopt This Nordic model, it penalizes the buyers while helping women to exit. This bill was passed and is now law, yet still, we're not seeing We're not seeing arrests of buyers, we're not seeing adequate funding for services that women need So, here and now, but we don't have it in use. From Canada, who is normally such a leader a country that's known and for gender equality, yet still, we need action So where do we start? Well, first, we need Its harms are inherent and simply cannot be licensed Second, women trapped These women, they need to be safe And finally, we need more support just like you. I have spoken to numerous federal and they all say the same thing to me: &quot;I can only address what my constituents Write them, call them, tell them that women being exploited is not acceptable. In conclusion, it takes just one person - it really does. I share my story today because I'm free, and that freedom I believe everybody in our country I'm sharing my story today because I am hopeful. I have seen, I have witnessed the strength inside of the women These women are future leaders, entrepreneurs, moms; they are game changers. All they need is a chance, It took one person. Her name was Kathy; her husband, Jim. They each extended a hand of love to me. They both had shown me again and they assisted And that is something that you can do (Applause) (Cheers) Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)