- Hey, Smart People. Joe here. There's been life on this planet for at least 3.7 billion years. But for most of that time, life was really, really, really boring. It was all just simple around in water. No cute furry things. No weird bugs. No trees. Just microscopic blobs blobbing. And then, around half a billion years ago, after about 3 billion years of boring, something amazing happened. Life exploded into all Worms. Trilobites. A five-eyed sea-creature called Opabinia. And countless other complex lifeforms. I mean, out of nowhere, life It's hard to put time scales If the history of life were a single day, and life began at midnight, life didn't get interesting And that explosion of in less than an hour on But why didn't life just stay boring? What changed? When we typically think the process by which organisms we think of this gradual thing that happens over huge time periods. But that's not what happened here. The ancestors of all life's the variety of life on And that's because, right a new kind of chemistry A chemistry that, in excess, but in the right doses for life as we know it today. Understanding why this happened, and what this new chemistry enabled, might even tell us what life might look like elsewhere. (gentle music) When life first showed up on Earth, the air was most likely made water vapor, and small There was hardly any oxygen. So if you went back in you'd immediately suffocate and die. So early life was anaerobic: Instead, it got all its energy from minerals dissolved into the ocean. Cells just sat there while seawater passed through their membranes, Those compounds interacted with and set off chain reactions. Electrons hopping from molecules joining together or split apart, and in the end, creating a ATP exists in every single cell in every single living thing, it's life's universal way of storing energy cells need to function. But this lazy anaerobic way to get energy only produced enough ATP to Early boring lifeforms they could use to grow bigger. Now, since these early cells it might seem like they the bigger the net, the bigger the catch. But for cells, it actually As cells get bigger, more surface area to let in nutrients, but they also have much, much more volume. And that volume grows So a bigger single cell can't catch enough stuff to feed all its volume. This meant that early pretty much doomed to Even today, organisms to make energy are almost all just single, microscopic cells. But, around 2.4 billion years ago, something happened that completely changed the course of life. Some of these simple A whole new way of making They started doing photosynthesis. Eating light and air to power And it creates a waste Over the next few hundred million years, early photosynthetic cells Oxygen levels went from almost nothing to about 10% the amount of and the planet drastically According to one leading theory, oxygen reacted with greenhouse gasses, changing the makeup of the atmosphere so that it stopped trapping as much heat. That would explain why 1.9 billion years ago, so much that it froze over Oxygen started out as catastrophic. But Earth's oxygen-rich atmosphere is also the reason that we're around today. By using oxygen, your completely differently You get way more ATP for every bit of organic matter that you consume. It's about 10 times more efficient than those original anaerobic And life needed all of that energy to grow and get more interesting. So this period, called often gets the credit for As the story goes, it created and that air enabled life to get complex, and the rest was history. But that's not the full story. Chances are, we would never have gotten this incredible array of of this planet if it weren't and a crucial give-and-take So remember when Earth froze Well, volcanoes pumped back into the atmosphere, and things gradually And then something happened that, well, it changed everything: At least 1.7 billion years ago, one cell just gulped up another one. The swallowed cell started It evolved into what we - [Announcer] The powerhouse of the cell! (thunder crackles) - An organelle whose main job is to create ATP for its host cell. Up until this point, all simple bags of stuff without any division of labor going on inside. But suddenly, in this leap Some biologists think evolution basically would have stalled because every single animal and plant on Earth is complex cells whose ancestors were born in that moment when one and took it hostage and squeezed Meanwhile, the general blueprint of single-celled organisms in 3 billion years. Prokaryotes didn't gradually through a bunch of gradual (alarm buzzes) This one evolutionary leap, changed the entire And this kind of freak Around 1.25 billion years ago, a eukaryotic cell This time, it was a that got gulped up. Over time, that evolved the organelle that does photosynthesis. Today, every single plant full of chloroplasts and mitochondria. Forget gradual change. Without sudden, huge leaps in evolution, plants and animals just don't exist. But what's weird is, even life already had the to create all sorts of we didn't get this immediate burst of interestingness at all. In fact, some biologists from 1.8 billion years ago to 800 million years ago, Evolution was happening, Because even though were pumping out a bunch of oxygen, it wasn't enough to support The problem was, the amount likely depended on No one gives phosphorus any love. Cells use phosphorus to make Basically, no phosphorus, no cells. And at the time, Earth but it was mostly locked up in the crust, not dissolved in the ocean, Prokaryotes were starved for P, so their population likely stalled for hundreds of millions of years. But over time, a series of that scraped up the ground, freeing up some of the Wind and rain wore down the continents, washing a bunch of that Life finally had all the ingredients that it needed to get interesting: It had eukaryotic cells, which would become the building It had photosynthesizing And it had enough phosphorus So, after around 3 billion evolution wasn't on hold anymore. Natural selection could do its thing, and life exploded into in just hundreds of millions of years. I know that sounds like a long time, but as major evolutionary changes go, it's basically overnight. So how does life get complex? Well, first, cells start living together, and they split up tasks: others providing structure, Eventually, some of these into simple animals. And over time, animals kept Some were shaped like ribbons and tubes. They stopped staying in one place, and started taking advantage to seek out other organisms for fuel. Harvesting and hunting for their bodies, which Organisms also got more complex for finding dinner and They grew heads and tails I mean, natural selection went wild. While none of this would have happened without oxygen in our atmosphere, an oxygen-rich planet I mean, quite possibly to our planet was freeze it which we already talked about. That was not great. But on the flip side, Nothing would burn on Earth and the more oxygen there is, But when it comes to oxygen and life, the big catch is that oxygen is toxic. We all breathe air But if people are exposed to higher concentrations of oxygen, they can actually be poisoned. 'Cause the thing about oxygen To put it chemistry specific, which really want to form chemical bonds. So oxygen yanks electrons whenever it gets the chance. This is known as oxidizing, and it's how we get things like rust. If oxygen steals electrons it creates unstable molecules called free radicals that can damage cells. Our bodies have some natural Antioxidants are molecules in that can easily give up and keep them from reacting But these defenses can get overwhelmed if the oxygen concentration is too high. And even if antioxidants some free radicals still slip through, slowly damaging our cells year after year. Some scientists think for part of aging and In a way, oxygen itself both So, sure, the Great But oxygen gas was not this It was a double-edged sword. And it took much more to give us life as we know it. The story of life on earth isn't It's a story about geology and chemistry overlapping with biology. We needed a planet that could for billions of years. We needed some of those lifeforms to fill our air with oxygen. And we needed some to create the building Then we needed geological before life could get interesting at all. So, complex life might not be the inevitable endpoint of You might need more than a planet with just the right ingredients at just the right distance from a star. It kinda suggests that another planet with simple lifeforms, that life may never get So, as we live on our planet covered in incredible plants and flammable gas that also the fact that we're here at all might be even more Stay curious. And as always, thank you for sticking around to the end of the video, and thank you to everyone who We literally could not Much like oxygen, you give us life and you keep these videos complex, because summarizing the into one episode is not an easy task. It takes us a lot of work to research and put these videos together. The support of our patrons is essential to keep making videos the way that we know that you love them. So support at any level will You can find out more information Go ahead and clicky-click the button and we will see you in the next video. Explanation of demo. (crew member laughs) Okay. Thank you. I just read what it says. (Joe grunts)