During the Stone Age, 40,000 years ago, the whole of Europe was inhabited Proud hunters, they don't know any human beings Suddenly, strangers appear They look different and are different. The beginning of the end What went on between Did they fight or mix? Did they even have children together? How much of the Neanderthal Who had sex with whom 30,000 They could do as they liked. I'm interested The Neanderthals, a myth worldwide. They were strong, They're our closest relatives, Their life and death The Neanderthals survived and we haven't existed The question is, why did they disappear? The Neanderthals with whom we shared this planet Learning more about them One of the questions why were modern humans able to spread and by one mechanism or another, in a short time It was still over a period The Neanderthal genetic code riddle. An international team of scientists Researchers from the Max Planck Institute in Leipzig, Germany, of an extinct human being. The dream of a lifetime has come true We started working and five years ago, decoding the complete genome We've been working on it for three years. We had the data over a year ago, Now we're ready. We can dare to say something about them. Johannes Krause, a passionate researcher, Decoding has posed We constantly had to establish We had to use various methods, There was a lot of excitement and tension, The central question, have any Neanderthal traits The regional museum in Bonn. The world's most famous bones They are the crown jewels Ralf Schmitz is the custodian the first Neanderthal to ever be found, whose name was given Archaeologist Ralf Schmitz His professional life has revolved Neanderthals. This prehistoric human, lived to be about 40 years old. Only 16 bones have survived Is the key to unlocking hidden in them? He's the most famous German of all, He's the only species of human If there's a form of human being then it is indeed the Neanderthal man. The story begins in a quarry It's a hard day for the workers. Hacking away at the stone they come upon bones The world would never have heard if the quarry owner hadn't been curious. Are these the remains Having a passion for fossils, the quarry owner orders the workers A skull comes to light Strange, what can it mean? These bones were found in Neanderthal, a romantic spot Until the middle of the 19th century, the Neanderthal was a beautiful, Steep chalk cliffs, up to 50 meters high, This romantic narrow gorge and later renamed Neandertal The Neander Valley, In one of these caves, the Neanderthal was probably Prehistoric humans sought shelter with majestic cliffs towering above, through which flowed the Dussel, An ideal that inspired painters and poets, today would be a nature reserve. Then came industrialization, and the lime from the Neander Valley for the ironworks in the Ruhr area. Thousands find work in the quarry. This is the end of the Neander Valley. No one yet has any idea what the quarry owner's [German spoken audio] This is the best-known fossil and it's the fossil that other forms of humans, At that time, nobody believed in the existence Only Johann Fuhlrott, a teacher, that these bones came Did Neanderthals actually exist? The scientific elite argue bitterly The greatest opponent to this theory Rudolf Virchow from Berlin, He examines the bones in great detail and comes to a conclusion They come from a sick, The bones of a sick human? Virchow's words shaped the cliche which persists even today. It is so deep-rooted. The hunched posture, and club in hand, It's a character assassination, the Neanderthal is a hairy savage brutal and stupid, a Stone Age halfwit, A sensational find in Croatia in 1899 Johannes Krause visits where the most Neanderthal bones Based on our current knowledge we think that we have based on dental samples. If you study postcrania, The find in Krapina gives rise Did the Neanderthals living here The traces on bones Some people argue for cannibalism because this was a place Why cannibalistic behavior? It could be ritual or starvation. -Krapina is quite an unusual sample. So it seems like Yes, there was butchering. They didn't respect the dead. The idea of cannibalism was well-known because of this fragmentation. Many bones are just split, In his office in Zagreb, Radovcic shows his German colleague one of the largest Neanderthal collections Some have been so maltreated says the researcher. This box has If you consider this bone, some think it's good evidence This is evidence Along these bones, at some points, you'll also find different cut marks, There are many long bones like this. Were the Neanderthals Other researchers have their doubts. They discovered mysterious marks a row of notches at regular intervals. They cannot be a coincidence. There are many scratches here. They're narrow and dense. Someone was trying to mark this specimen, this person who just died. This is unusual behavior for Neanderthals. We don't know its meaning, but it could be evidence The suspicion alone was enough. The alleged cannibals from Krapina for good. Such a monster was not suitable but more as In Nazi Germany, It was said that the steel-hard Aryan A school book of the time who was inferior to the nobler race. In Hitler's Germany, The Nazis treated Neanderthals Neanderthals didn't fit in We should be glad Because of this, the Nazis closed down Its modern successor, is a great crowd-puller nowadays. The Neanderthal myth, from ridiculed club swinger What an astonishing career. The image we have of our closest relatives has changed dramatically Scientists worldwide want to know However, most of all, Neanderthals moved swiftly through their surroundings. They probably had alert, intelligent eyes They used fire, wore clothes, They were highly intelligent living as the Inuit do nowadays That's how they should be seen, Today we know that that they were real human beings, They were skilled hunters, Only so could they have survived Initiation into hunting in the life of a Neanderthal. They were faster, more muscular, At today's Olympics, the Neanderthals would win The fascination with Neanderthals The American, Erik Trinkaus, has been a proponent we mixed and had sex I've always thought of the processes involved in evolution of Neanderthals and their interaction upon meeting, in terms of the messy, and gene flow, between these populations That's how I view the world. Erik Trinkaus is one of the world's At his excavations all over the world, he has come upon skeletons Neanderthals and us, but the evidence was missing. Genetic engineering methods That's the allure of Neanderthals. They're very close to us, but they're not quite us. They are our mirror image, they are other human beings. Neanderthals had refined techniques They obtained color which are in no way inferior They obtained the fuse, the tinder, They were particularly skilled razor-sharp scrapers and spearheads They also deserve our respect. They lived in a harsh time with technology considerably less than ours. They survived under those conditions We tend to put down the Neanderthals, I would make a bet that if any one of us, were suddenly placed back and had to make a living, Back in Leipzig, scientists at the Max Planck Institute In the isotope laboratory, minute particles of Neanderthal bone The result: the prehistoric human diet It was because there was one thing meat, and plenty of it. Neanderthals were super predators. Imagine a group of lions These lions would need a lot of kills. They'd die if they don't kill This craving for meat drives them on. They are always out on the hunt, roaming through vast areas Sometimes they hunt However, Neanderthals are not afraid such as mammoths or bears. They hunt in groups, and kill an animal. It must have been spectacular. Let's imagine a group of Neanderthals It's something we have difficulties because we know they didn't have We know that they had but it looks like most of these weapons The prey often needed There was good reason why the Neanderthals The animal would be taken apart If you depend on meat and do not exploit you will be vulnerable or there are extreme changes in climate. Is this a reason for their disappearance? Extinction is a normal part and one day we'll disappear too. It's interesting to find out ...and why they became extinct. Using the most modern methods, anthropologists at Max Planck Institute The jawbones of a mere child of eight This is a particularly valuable find, The jawbones open a window in time The naked eye is not enough. To get more information from the fossil, This reveals even the inner structures. From the resulting data, something never seen before a virtual Neanderthal. In the virtual reality room in Leipzig, observes the digital rebirth He invented this technology, which has been connecting prehistory In this way, he discovered a surprising difference That's an interesting It's important a mandible of a Neanderthal child, and to evaluate Here we have a mandible which is already erupted, and a third molar By modern standards, this individual should be However, if we look the lines in the enamel which helps us we find that this individual was It means that Neanderthal, grew up faster than we do. This means the Neanderthals They had much less time than our children On the other hand, they were able There are also other differences Looking at the skeleton it's evident how different Jean-Jacques Hublin Would we recognize If you would meet what would look the weirdest They had a big head However, the face was projected They had a receding forehead, which is a major difference They had strong brow ridges Their face projected forward, However, the real question is, Although Neanderthals had a large brain we know that they developed in terms of speed, We'd like to know what this implies Neanderthals were fixed in their ways. They adapted and hardly changed their way of life in contrast to modern humans [German spoken audio] We assume that Neanderthals lived The total population Neanderthals of the later period lived in a Europe During the last ice age, 39,000 years ago, In Central Europe, In the North, tundra. Scandinavia was crowned by an ice cap. Though few in numbers, from Spain to Western Siberia. They left traces everywhere. Each point indicates a site The most famous one is located The world's first Neanderthal Ralf Schmitz is determined He excavates the legendary spot, The greatest adventure in his career. It gets interesting The actual area of excavation It's protected by several layers. Twenty meters above us was the grotto where the original The rock face by the extraction of lime. The sediment from the cave in the 19th century. The chance of still finding depended entirely had been transported A scrapyard covers the area However, despite the obstacles, work begins in Neandertal Did the researchers Weeks go by without any significant find. Sackfuls of earth are cleared away Not even the tiniest particle It's laborious work. Shortly before the end of excavations, a piece of bone. Is it a bone from a human being? We cleaned this cheekbone, and it became evident but a human cheekbone. We compared it and saw that the bone It was immediately clear Bone by bone, the skeleton was completed. Fifty further fragments are added. From the cheekbone, we can guess It is like a jigsaw puzzle. The most important ones are those The very first one that we try is a small fragment If you look at this thighbone you can see that tiny pieces are missing. This happened struck the bones It was a great moment when the bones made a click. I felt sick with excitement. I almost fainted, This would prove in the Neandertal. The key to cracking A team of international scientists, has developed revolutionary techniques We worked on animals, cave-dwelling bears, When we realized that it worked, Then we finally got support from Ralf. Ralf Schmitz, placed an upper arm bone Specimens were taken from this. The meal was drilled Would the extract to crack the Neanderthal genetic code? It would be a stroke of luck, It's always important in such a bone. Only 10% of the bones The chances are good, because the Neanderthal upper arm but also unusually well-developed. What's the reason for this? This man had suffered a fracture For the rest of his life, he was restricted To a certain extent, he was disabled. This can be clearly seen because the left upper arm If I lay them side by side, As a disabled person, he was cared for This says more about Neanderthals Neanderthals were not only brave hunters Wounds and broken bones They took care of each other in the tribe, because survival depended They were able That means Neanderthals The daily search for food Some people have compared to those found in rodeo riders. It's the same. So it looks like they were The mortality of adults was also high. This is also likely a key factor the high risk of dying young. Neanderthals had little chance Their final resting place The tribe made sure that the body They laid out their dead on their back, in a position almost like sleep. We don't know There are some indications but it isn't possible However, one thing is clear: these were human beings, The question now is, What kinds of differences? To replace one species with another, you don't need huge differences The team in Leipzig hopes by decoding the Neanderthal genome. Why did they become extinct? Why did modern humans survive? The attempt to extract from a bone specimen It is the first from an extinct human. In my opinion, our primary interest is not the Neanderthals themselves, but rather our own history, because the Neanderthal Then came the setbacks. There isn't enough material while the other bones are contaminated. When working with Neanderthal DNA, human contamination Humans and Neanderthal This means that if I contaminate the DNA I can no longer differentiate The bones pass through many hands, At first, this seems to be The search for uncontaminated bones We examined a lot of bones, which had enough DNA making them suitable for the project. The gene hunters find The trail leads to Zagreb, to the time-honored Johannes Krause, at the very place where lies the key Safe in a glass cabinet, the precious fossil lay unrecognized until the team from Leipzig We carried out and found Neanderthal DNA This means we were able to get DNA So the Neanderthal DNA and we examined these bones to see They are. One of the bones The researchers talk about a golden bone. It has proved to be the most suitable. It's only very slightly contaminated in comparison with the other bones. In this box here, we have the bones that gave us the key On the way to the site It's located 30 kilometers Accompanied by two Croatian colleagues, Johannes Krause pays a visit one of the most important Generation after generation until they became extinct. This site has ever to be found, certainly the youngest Neanderthals They lived during an interesting time, the biocultural change or switch a period roughly between 40,000 This was a time when some groups people like us, This cave was extremely popular Thirteen layers of finds are discovered, most of them I think it's wonderful just to imagine We are standing in the very place and found shelter, 30,000 years ago. It's an amazing feeling to know and left their bones, It could be that hyenas dragged them in. The researchers reached It could have happened here, Neanderthals and modern humans Did they mix? Some people believe There are people who believe with some groups when they first came to Europe. There's also a possibility with various other groups It is a question or some morphological features of India, when we study these fossil bones. There is much speculation about the bones. It could have happened The first rendezvous However, genetic researchers say If there had really been between Neanderthals and modern humans, then there should be more DNA and that is not the case. We find the same Neanderthal DNA Back in Leipzig, the bones from Vindija of the Neanderthal genetic code. With their help, the researchers even hope To be able to understand it is not enough to examine the genes To understand more, for example, a comparison is needed the Neanderthal, the chimpanzee. The great apes share Six million years In these six million years, both chimpanzees and humans about 20 million genetic mutations. This altogether makes so we are indeed closely related. However, apes can't speak. The geneticist, Wolfgang Enard, is carrying out research When a gene for language Enard recognized it was missing in apes. Could it be one of the genes for language which made such a crucial difference in the animal world? Our difficulty is that, when we have one gene where we think that something important we can't examine it directly. We can't change this gene directly So we must have for example, using the most which is the mouse. In the mouse, we can try out of the gene different. In the end, Wolfgang Enard wants to know what happens when a language gene is implanted It's true that the mice but they do change, We're one step further and see that this change somehow affects that we think we can relate it We examine it further However, we've taken the first step. It does something to the nerve cells and to areas of the brain [German spoken audio] The ability to speak is a quality The mouse model proves must play an important role in speaking. While Wolfgang Enard is investigating the team around Svante Paabo The mouse does squeak a bit differently, These are certainly important, The first part of the Neanderthal code It was cutting-edge technology This technology has made it possible at one time. That's a million times more and so we were able to produce to decode the Neanderthal genome. Finally, after 13 years it has been achieved. The Neanderthal genome has been decoded. The result is sensational. They mixed a little, However, how much? The researchers answer this question They compare the Neanderthal gene from five different parts of the world. The result is a further surprise. The distribution varies throughout the world. The most astonishing thing is that we find this small contribution but not in Africans. It seems to be something a small part of the Neanderthal genome. This is a revolution. Until now, the opinion was that The great mystery: how could Neanderthals contribute which were never inhabited The most probable theory: with ancestors of the Neanderthals The most likely area for this It begins in Africa, 500,000 years ago, early hominids separate the ancestors and the ancestors of the Neanderthal. The early Neanderthals migrate, and spread across the whole of Europe. Around 100,000 modern humans also migrate from Africa On their triumphal march across the world, they carry a tiny part They spread it to regions To put it in a nutshell, we are family. Neanderthals are us, that something remains Neanderthals disappeared Humans carrying their genes It is only south of the Sahara I'd like to think to know that They were tough and durable people. They survived for hundreds I'd be proud to know that We have a lot of things For example, excavations across Europe prehistoric humans decorated themselves and yet they were different. In what ways are we different? What makes us so unique? A good example is why Neanderthals I still can't explain how Neanderthals except for their lack Modern humans are the first Can this difference In a clean room, Johannes Krause makes visible to the human eye. By cracking the Neanderthal code, to uncover We can move beyond questions of gene flow and who was having sex We can go on to questions of biology, and maybe from this, we can get a better handle in terms of modern human biology That modern human biological pattern Modern humans are successful Over thousands of years, However, we are flexible. We can guess we can think in symbols, but we are also aggressive nor to other human beings. With the Neanderthal code, to some of the most important Comparing and knowing more to even understand The real mystery is why was one species, Why is this species so invading? How did it manage to cover the planet The Neanderthals were skilled They survived for thousands of years putting up with swings in climate They could cope with nature until something happened To think that a natural cause would lead just at the time after 200,000 or 300,000 years in the population that it happened just at the time It's the beginning of the end when modern humans 40,000 years ago. They replace the Neanderthals They reproduce much faster. The number of prehistoric people They are driven back to the boundaries Their culture is lost forever. Their craftsmanship, skills in hunting, and solidarity in the tribe is doomed. However, today we know more about our extinct brothers. This Neanderthal puzzle They will keep us supplied for at least 50, if not 100 years. The Neanderthals disappeared We modern humans now dominate the planet alone, but a bit of Neanderthal has survived in each of us, even till today.