Hello, it's Mamiko from GOROGORO Kitchen. The move is complete, though it's not fully organized yet. Since we've received various requests, we would like to do a home tour. Thank you for joining! This new place is still a rental, and the rent is pretty much the same as before. The rent hasn't changed much. It's because this new place is two more stops away, so it's a bit more on the outskirts of Paris. Yeah. Well, but because of that, it's definitely much bigger. Much bigger... about 1.5 times? Yes, about 1.5 times bigger, I'd say. It's about 1.5 times bigger and has an additional balcony. So, it really feels quite spacious now. And this is the living room, or the living and dining area. The first thing that really struck me when I first came here was how large the windows are. The living room is so bright and open, which I really love. Yes, it's true. When we came here the first time, there were a lot of furniture. Still, I felt it was really spacious and bright. However, Tsu-san was sceptical, saying, &quot;I wonder if it's pretty to have the window of modern architecture.'' But once we moved in, he realized it didn't matter. No, it doesn't bother me at all. -Even though you were complaining so much. So, we are planning to have this side as the dining area, and the other side as the living room area. So, I've placed my favourite cupboard here. All the cups and dishes are already in place now. So, the cupboard is all set. That's the situation. The area around here still needs some work. Since there's nothing in front of the cupboard, it's much easier to open the doors now. So it is easier to put things in and out. And here... Tsu-san didn't clean up this space... This is Tsu-san's music space, which has been moved as it is. The reason the bird is placed here is because if it's not, Tola will climb onto the china cabinet. -Oh, I didn't know that. So keeping it here like this prevents Tola from climbing. -He's smart. So, this is how it works. And this dining table is as it is before. The rug is the same as before. The chairs are also the same ones we had before. At first, we thought it would be better to have a bigger table since the space was more spacious, but then we realized that this table would be fine. Yeah. It would be nice to have a bigger table, but we don't often eat with such large groups. And even when we do, it's not that frequent. For example, if we had a large family like French, with grandparents and grandchildren coming over, a bigger table might be better. But we have only two cats... -oh, three cats. Three cats are probably fine here. We don't really need anything big. This stool used to be next to the sofa with a lamp on it, but for now, I placed it here. I also put some plants on it. It's good to be able to bring out things like this that were previously hidden. So, the apartment is spacious, but there isn't much storage. We actually had a lot of storage in the previous place. So now, we're running out of space for our things. We need to buy some shelves. Yes, that's right. For now, we're putting things on top of the radiator. We need to sort them out before it gets cold, or these things might catch fire. Yes, that's terrible. And here's my vase collection. We need to urgently find a place to store these things. Yes. This was previously a bookshelf in the hallway where we kept various books. Yes. We don't have a lot of nice books, so I'm just storing small items here. Well, it might be okay to use it as a shelf for small items. By the way, Tsu-san found this bookshelf at Montmartre, right? Yes, I found it on the street in front of my old place in Montmartre. -Then you painted it. It was a completely different colour before. I don't even remember what colour it was originally. So, in France, people pick up and recycle things. Yes. Right. The things around here are things we already had. The chairs. When we moved in, Tsu-san's friend asked why there were so many chairs in this apartment. Right. He asked, "Why are there so many chairs?" To me, they're not chairs; it's a place to put things. Here we have two doors leading to the balcony. Maybe this was a room before. Ah, yes, it could have been. French people tend to like dividing spaces a lot. Yes, that's true. Here, the shutters automatically come down. -This is really convenient. The movement is quite smooth. Yes. Then let's go outside. Yes. Here we go... The balcony looks like this. It's still quite dirty since I haven't cleaned it yet, but it's quite spacious and I can place a lot of greenery. -It's nice. It was about this size before. Yes, it was much smaller before. From this window, you can see a road stretching far into the distance. It's very open, and there aren't any large buildings right in front of us. In front, there's a large tree, adding a nice green touch. It looks great. It's very quiet. Maybe because it's summer. but it feels very calm and peaceful. It's really nice. So, I'd like to add more plants here... but is it too tiresome? Well, it might end up happening. It would be nice to add some chairs here too. Yes. That's what I'm thinking. So, that's about it for this area. Yes. So, this is the living room area. But since there's no sofa yet, it looks like a playroom for kids. I'm imagining a grand plan where we place a sofa here and maybe even a single chair and a coffee table. But I kind of like it this way. I still want to add a sofa. Also, since this area is oddly angled, I'm not sure how to arrange the sofa. So that's how it is. This corner is still messy. There are a lot of books and other things here that need to be tidied up. We are planning to put my desk here and add some bookshelves, and then put these books on the shelves. I wonder if everything will fit, though. I don't know, if it's tall like Tsu-san's bookshelf, they should fit. Well, maybe. I'm still thinking about what to do, but for now, this space is intended to be my work area. Everything here is work-related. -There are also some manga... So, this is the entrance hall. When you enter, you'll find the living room on the left, the kitchen on the right, and dancing! It's inside joke, none understands! This piece is the same one we had in the previous entrance. We might use it here just as it was. Yes. It could be nice if we paint it. Yes, I think so. The walls here are a strange colour, but the living room was originally this colour as well. The landlord painted the other side white, but for some reason he left this colour here. I was wondering why he didn't paint this area white as well. However, I think it would be a good idea to put some nice wallpaper on this wall. Something floral, like Morris &amp; Co. That way, when you enter through the entrance, you'll feel much better. I think it's a good idea. That's what I think. I'm not sure when we will be able to do it, but this is a reform I'd like to do eventually. You're planning to add a chair too, right? Yes. Though there's a cat's automatic feeder now, but I'm thinking of putting a chair here... Yes, Tola, right? &quot;I am going to wear the shoes!&quot;, right? I want to place a chair here, where we can sit and put on the shoes. Yes. What do you want, Tola? &quot;I want to be in the video!&quot; &quot;I want to wear shoes too!&quot; &quot;I only wear white socks,&quot; &quot;so I want to put on shoes!&quot; -Now, let's go check out the kitchen. Here it is. What I really like about this apartment is that the kitchen is also very spacious. Spacious. The window is large too, plus there's a huge tree right outside, making the view very green. From the living room, all you see is greenery. I really like this aspect. Even though it's an apartment building, it doesn't feel like you're right in front of someone else's house. This is what I really like. Yes. And this oven is another my favourite feature. Finally, we have a proper oven. Congratulations. Unfortunately, it's not gas-powered. It's electric but it's big enough to bake a proper-sized pizza. No more small, cramped pizzas. This microwave is the one we brought from our old place. It fits perfectly here and is very convenient. And here, and there and here are all shelves and there's also drawers. But still, my things don't fit all... I wonder why. It's because there are so many dishes. Not dishes, but pots and other tools. So I need a shelf for those. I'm thinking of placing it next to the refrigerator. However, the refrigerator is a bit broken-- it's not ours but the landlord's. We're supposed to get it replaced. So, depending on the size of the new fridge, I might rearrange it and place a shelf here. Facing the fridge this way doesn't seem realistic though... Here, a shelf for ingredients and others. There's also a shelf here, but it has a strange shape... I can't really show you the bottom side, it's too messy.... Anyways, it's a bit inconvenient. So, I'm thinking it could be used for cleaning supplies or ironing materials. Since I can't store ingredients here, I'll need a shelf somewhere else. I'm not sure if this central counter is convenient or not. And I really don't like the pattern here. I wonder why it's like this, and why the legs are like that. So I'm thinking of replacing it with a nice marble pattern or something other than this sandpit-like pattern. I want to change it to marble or something similar and maybe add some tiles here. That's what I'm thinking. Yes. But since there's storage space underneath, I'm trying to figure out how to store things. I'm planning to put the coffee machine and the kettle here. It's convenient that there's power, but it's still a bit messy here. I'm thinking of placing those things here. I've decided to put my cooking tools here. After trying various options, these three items were chosen. An Instant Pot, a rice mill, and a blender. It's great that I can cook with the Instant Pot without having to take it out from the back. This area is already filled with dishes. Yes, that's true. I'm not sure what to do. And here we have a gas stove. I'm happy to have gas for cooking now, as we didn't have it before. But Tsu-san complains a lot about the cost, That's not true. so I try to turn it off quickly. And here is the sink. There's anything particularly interesting about it, but there's a sink, and this window also has a shatter that can be closed automatically, so it's very convenient when the sun is shining in the west. There is also a washing machine here. It's always a mystery why Western countries have washing machines in the kitchen. Maybe it's convenient because you can do laundry and cooking at the same time. But I think it's more about plumbing issues. In Japan, it's fine in the bathroom. Yes, in Japan, it's in the bathroom. But why is it that the West is the kitchen? Previously, we had a different one that was so broken, when I tried to test it, foam started overflowing from the door. So the landlord replaced it with a Samsung one. After considering various European brands, I found that Samsung seemed to offer good features. I actually wanted one with a dryer, but the ones with dryers are deeper and don't fit the standard 60 cm European size, so I ended up choosing a regular Samsung washer instead. I agonized over it for three days and nights, but finally decided on the Samsung washing machine. Because the towels come out fluffy with dryer. I wanted fluffy, hotel-like towels, but I couldn't quite achieve that. Tsu-san kind of pushed me into it. I didn't push you into it. So, that's how it is. And we also have a dishwasher here. It works normally, so that's fine. Yes. So, that's all here? Yes. Well, it's spacious here, so the two of us can do the various things, I guess. Did you get what I made now? -It's a pizza. -So, it's quite spacious. Right, Tola? Tola wants to sleep. Now, let's move on. Here's the next area. What is this? Is it Tsu-san's room?! This is Tsu-san's room, but here's the bathroom. No space is wasted. There's only this hallway. -Great. -Let's start by checking out the bathroom. Here it is. Oh. Compact. Yes. However, the sink is wider than before, and there is storage inside the mirror, so we can now fit all of our cosmetics etc. Yes. This side is Tsu-san's, and this side is for my cosmetics, and here, it' for skincare items. Oh, I see. This is my skincare, this is for tooth items, and sunscreens. And hand cream. And here, it's for my perfume, and here for Tsu-san's perfume. I see, I didn't know that. -Why? -Please observe things carefully. Here, I have all my makeup goods. I have not been able to organize it at all, so it's quite messy. And there's a drawer here, I put a hair dryer in here, a steam iron in here, and so on. I also put towels in here. So, even though it's compact, there's actually more storage than before. And now, the moment you've been waiting for. Here is Tsu-san's room. -Let's take a look. Yes, this is Tsu-san's room. Also known as the Yuzu's room. Yes. Here's Yuzu. Recently, Yuzu has been doing well eating together with others through the cage. Trying to get along with Kurumi and Tola. But Yuzu is still here. Getting along well with Tsu-san. So, let us know about your room. Ah, it's an interview? Well, to make the most of the space, I set up an open wardrobe. It is designed to not make me feel cramped. Shoes on top, clothes in the middle, and various items below. I also make good use of the corner space, and Yuzu has a place on the bottom shelf. Yuzu sharpens her claws and sleeps up there. Next to that is my equipment shelf. It's packed with equipment from top to bottom-- please don't open it. We can't open it. My handmade bookshelf finally is settled in here. And my work desk next to it. There's a relaxing space outside. There's just a mat for now. Eventually, you plan to add a reclining chair here. Yes, and cocktails. -Cocktails. So let's go outside. Yes. So, Tsu-san does yoga here every day. It's a lie. But it's spacious, it's really nice. It's cooler on this side during the day. I placed the shiso and Japanese ginger here as it has less direct sunlight, So, shiso is getting bigger and bigger. Yes. It's quite impressive. This area still needs cleaning, so we need to get on it right away. I did do a light cleaning by myself. Well, yes.... She's not convinced. And it's connected to Mamiko's kitchen. Yes. So, Tsu-san's food comes from here, right? Yes. And I can eat here. We can put a table here, and on a nice day, we can have lunch together. Yuzu and Tsu-san? Eh, no no, me and you. Oh, with me. -Not Yuzu. I don't mind with Yuzu either. But it's really nice. It can fit 4 chairs. Yes, we can do that. When I moved the shiso here, the leaves became softer. Oh, really? Yes, when they get too much direct sunlight, the leaves become tough. So this balcony is perfect for getting delicious, tender shiso. Yuzu seems eager to go outside; she really loves being outside. she really loves being outside. She's being quiet now. Yes, Yuzu is super cute. Alright, let's go. Finally, we'll head to the final room. This is the toilet, and here's the storage space. It goes quite high, so I use it for storing my skirts and jackets. There's quite a bit of stuff in there. And this is the bedroom. Since this is the bedroom, we have a bed here. Since my clothes aren't fully stored, I'm thinking of adding a dresser over there. And beyond that is a mysterious space with a window. Is it a sunroom? It does look like a sunroom to me. Honestly, I'm not sure what to do with it. The windows are difficult to move because they are old, so it's quite a hassle. So, I'm looking for suggestions on what to put in this space. And finally, we bought this bed, but the headboard hasn't arrived yet, I mean, I haven't ordered it yet. but I'd like to add one. There's no light in this room at all, so the bedside lamp is connected to the main power. I think we need to add a big light. Yes. Should we add a big light like this? Isn't that a bit too much? Maybe a light like this would be fine? It's currently set up temporarily, but we need something more like a bedside lamp. Yeah, something with lots of small bulbs. Small bulbs? So, here, it's a bit messy with my clothes.... I just can't fit everything in. so I think I need a dresser. Yes. And Kurumi is there. She's on the opposite side. That's the situation. So, it's much more spacious than before. It does feel a bit rural, though it's right near Paris. -It's really quiet here. No sound at all. The previous house was next to the 12th arrondissement, just outside of Paris. And here, it's only two stations away, so it's not far away. But there are no tall buildings right in front, so it feels more like &quot;France&quot;. Yeah. Country-wide. If I were to give an analogy, it would be like normal Japan, not Tokyo. No? Where is that? I don't really know where that is, actually. We're both at home most of the time, so having a larger house has been very comfortable. Yes, really, Tsu-san's room is so cosy. -Oh, really? Tsu-san hardly ever comes out now. It's not true, but I'm careful not to come out too much. -Oh, really? To avoid disturbing Mamiko. Well, because Mamiko's room doesn't exist. In my view, the living room and kitchen are Mamiko's space, so I try not to interfere. -Oh, really? Oh well. Let's get along. Well, it's still not fully set up, so we'll keep you updated as we gradually get things organized. Yes. Well, that's all for the home tour. Yes. But the channel isn't ending. -Thank you for watching.