Hello, everyone! A lot of people have been asking me to explain one of the great unsolved problems in mathematics. It's called the Riemann Hypothesis Now, the fact that a lot of people have been asking me to explain this tells me two things. First, my life is weird. And two, that you're a bunch of mercenaries, because you've probably heard that the Riemann Hypothesis is one of those million dollar problems-- that if you solve it you will win one million dollars. Now it is one of the great unsolved problems in mathematics. It was number eight on David HIlbert's list of challenges to 20th century mathematicians. It was number one on a similar list of challenges to 21st century mathematicians, and it is one of these Clay Institute million dollar prize problems. If you've heard of it at all, you may have heard that it's something to do with prime numbers, but you don't know exactly what. So I'm going to attempt to explain it to you, although it's not going to be easy! They don't give away million dollar prizes for school maths. But if you want it, the 'too long/did not watch' version is The Prime Number Theorem. The Prime Number Theorem approximates how many primes there are less than a given value, x. Now it is an approximation-- it's not the true value. There is going to be a difference from the true value, an error. Now, the Riemann Hypothesis will tell you how big that error term is. If you want a little bit more information, the error term that we're looking for is related to a function called the Riemann zeta function, and particularly when that function is equal to zero. So the Riemann Hypothesis is the zeroes of the Riemann zeta function all lie on the line 1/2 plus i t, So these are complex numbers, but with real part equal to a half. Now, to explain this hypothesis, I'm going to go into the Prime Number Theorem, in a little bit more detail, I'm going to tell you what the Riemann zeta function is, how it's related to primes, why the zeroes are important, and if I have time, I will prove that black equals white, and cat equals dog. So let's start with the Prime Number Theorem. The Prime Number Theorem was first thought of by Gauss at the end of the 18th century, when he was only 15 years old. You'd think he'd be busy texting, and hanging around the outside of shops, but no, he's busy doing the Prime Number Theorem. Now, if we call the number of primes less than x, if we call that pi of x, then the Prime Number Theorem says that pi of x, divided by x over log (x), tends to one, as x tends to infinity. So some people say that pi of x 'twiddles' [~] x over log (x). You can think of that as pi of x, the prime counting function, is approximately x over log (x). So if we do an example of that, if we say x is 100, then the number of primes less than 100 there are 25 of them. But our approximation, x over log (x), gives you 22, which is not bad, really, for an approximation. In fact, the error gets proportionally smaller the larger the numbers are. So if I used x as a billion, then the number of primes less than a billion is something like 50 million. And our approximation, x over log (x), gives me 48 million. It's about 2 1/2 million off from the true answer. But proportionally, it's a smaller error. Forty years later, Dirichlet and Gauss came up with an even better approximation for pi of x. They said the pi of x 'twiddles' [~] this integral: between 2 and x of 1 over log (t) dt. It's called the logarithmic integral, and it is an even better approximation. So, for example, if I had x was a billion, again, then the logarithmic integral actually gives me an approximation of about 50 million. It's, in fact, only 1,700 away from the true value, so it's a really good approximation for pi of x. Now, there is another quantity which I'll mention now, because it's going to turn up later. We've seen pi of x, which is the prime counting function. You get one point for each prime. I'm going to introduce now something called J of x, which is the prime power counting function. Again, you get one point for each prime, but you also get 1/2 a point for each prime squared. So something like 9, which is 3 squared--you get half a point. You get a third of a point if it's a prime cubed. So 27 scores a third of a point, because it's three cubed. And you get, for the nth power of a prime, you get one over n points. So that's the prime power counting function. Remember that, because that is going to turn up later. You can see it's related to pi, using this formula, and you can reverse that-- you can actually get pi from J, using this other formula, which has some more minuses and pluses in it. But, the prime number theorem was actually only proved 100 years after Gauss thought of it. And it was finally proved using the Riemann zeta function. The Riemann zeta function was actually based on something Euler was doing in the 18th century. You see, Euler-- he was interested in infinite sums, like one, plus a half, plus a cube, plus a quarter-- and that goes on forever. If you've seen that before, you may know that's called the Harmonic Series, and it is tending to infinity, very slowly-- it's tending off to infinity. What Euler was interested in were powers of those fractions. So one plus a half squared, plus a cube squared, plus a quarter squared, and that going off to infinity. And he found that that doesn't tend to infinity-- that actually tends to a number. The number is actually pi squared over 6. So if that's the first time you've seen that, hooray! Surprise pi! If you do it for cube powers, one plus a half cubed, plus a third cubed, that actually tends to 1.202... if you do it for fourth powers, you get pi to the 4 over 90, and so on. So you actually get proper values, except for when the power is one. The Harmonic Series--that tends off to infinity. In general, Euler was studying these sums of one over n to the power s. Now what he found was that this infinite sum was equal to an infinite product-- an infinite product of primes. If p is your prime, then it's a product of p to the s, over p to the s minus one. So you go through the primes, like 2 to the s over 2 to the s minus 1, multiply that by 3 to the s over 3 to the s minus 1, multiply that by the next prime-- 5 to the s over 5 to the s minus 1, and that goes on forever too. Now what it showed was if, say, s is equal to 2 there, then that infinite product of primes is equal to pi squared over six. Or if s was equal to one, then that infinite product of primes goes off to infinity, like the Harmonic Series goes off to infinity. which is actually a proof that there are infinitely many primes because if there were only finitely many primes, you'd get a finite number. Now, it's the Euler function that Riemann decided to rip off-- I mean, study. Bernhard Riemann was apparently a shy, timid individual, but mathematically very talented. Gauss was actually his lecturer at university It was Gauss who persuaded Riemann to swap his course from theology to maths, and in the end, Riemann ends up running the place. He becomes head of department in the end. In was in 1859, though, that Riemann wrote his paper on the zeta function. Now, it's one of the most important papers in number theory, it's only ten pages long. Riemann never wrote on number theory before or since that paper. This was his one and only time and it just turns out to be one of the most important papers in number theory, ever! It's like the mathematical equivalent of a mic drop. Peace, out. I'm done. Riemann's zeta function was basically Euler's function except he used it for all complex numbers. So s could be any complex number not just one and two and three and four. The problem with that is it is only defined when the real part of s is greater than one. Otherwise, it explodes-- it goes off to infinity, like the Harmonic Series. What Riemann needs is a function that's defined for all complex numbers, but is equal to the Euler function when the real part is greater than than one. Now, the amazing thing about complex analysis is there is a way to do that, and there is only one way to do it. So if you think about it, what it means is if you know a value of a function for some complex numbers, you automatically know it for all complex numbers. Which is like [pow] What Riemann did is he considered this infinite sum. It's like the Euler function, but you've got alternating plus and minus signs in it. And he divided it by this factor, 1 minus 2, to the power 1 minus s, and this function is defined for complex numbers where the real part of s is greater than zero. And, it's equal to the Euler function when the real part of s is greater than one. This is the function we're looking for! Now, this defines a value when the real part of s is positive, what about when the real part of s is negative? To do that, what Riemann did next was he considered that strip, between zero and one, and in that strip, we have this true identity for the zeta function. It's not very nice to look at, I know-- so you've got the zeta of s equals--some junk. And it's got sin in there, and its gamma, and and pi--it's a lot of junk. multiplied by zeta (1 - s). What this means is the values are kind of reflected in the real part of s equals a half line. They're reflected, and then multiplied by that horrible factor. So that means we can reflect all our positive values into our negative values. And that will define it. So if you want to know zeta of minus one [-1], then you would multiply it by that horrible factor, with s equals minus one, which is only minus one over two pi squared, then you would times that by zeta of 2. Now we know the value of zeta for 2, if you remember that from before- that was pi squared over six. So all together, zeta of minus one is minus one-twelfth. [-1/12] Now, if we consider the zeta function as an extension of the Euler function, then some people consider the sum one plus two plus three plus four, going on forever, some people consider that to be equal to minus one-twelfth. [-1/12] And in a way, it kind of is. So to recap, the Riemann zeta function comes in three parts: where the real part of s is greater than 1, then it's just equal to the the Euler function, which you can write as a product of primes, as well. When the real part of s is between zero and one, then it's equal to this alternating sum, and when the real part of s is negative, well, you take the positive value, reflect it in the real part of s equals a half line, multiplied by a horrible factor. And that defines it all, Anything I haven't defined, you can define by taking limits. So zeta of zero is equal to minus a half [-1/2], zeta of 1 tends off to infinity, just like the Harmonic Series did. The next question is, when is this function equal to zero? Well, for a start, we know that when the real part of s is greater than one, it's never equal to zero. because it's a product of primes. And none of those factors are zero. So what about the third case, when it's negative? Well, in the third case, you might be able to see some zeroes at minus two, minus four, minus six, and so on, because we've got a sin function in there, and that's when the sin function is zero. Those zeroes are called 'trivial' zeroes, Otherwise, we've got non-trivial zeroes, and they exist in the strip between zero and one. And they're also symmetric around the real part of s equals a half line. So Riemann wondered if his zeta function could be written in terms of the non-trivial zeroes. This is like what you do with a polynomial. So imagine you have a polynomial like x cubed plus 2x squared minus 13x plus 10 well, you know you can factorize that into three factors, because it's a cube. And you find the factors by looking for when the polynomial is equal to zero. For example, if x equals 1, then the polynomial equals zero. So x minus 1 is a factor. If you do that again, if x equals 2, the polynomial is equal to zero, so x minus 2 is a factor. And if x equals minus 5, the polynomial is zero, so you can say x plus five is a factor. And that's how you factorize a polynomial. So Riemann wondered if he could do something like that with the zeta function. and you can! So he worked out that the zeta was equal to again, some junk, you've got gamma still in there, and pi is still in there--multiplied by a product of factors involving the non-trivial zeroes. that's one minus s over rho. Rho are your non-trivial zeros. So you can do that. So on one hand, you've got zeta, which is your normal zeta function, which was defined with its three parts, On the other hand, you've got zeta written as a product of its non-trivial zeroes, and those two things are equal. So you do--you equate them, and then you just mess around with it. You take logs of both sides, you do some calculus, some complex analysis, some theorems or residues, it's all very nasty stuff, I'm not going to do it now, but in the end, you end up with a result involving J of x. That's the prime power counting function, if you remember. And that is equal to the logarithmic integral of x, you may remember that from the Prime Number Theorem-- plus a sum of logarithmic integrals of x to the power rho. Rho are your non-trivial zeroes, so they're still there. minus log of two. That's just a constant--that's still there because there was a factor of a half, and that's still there. Your pi's have disappeared--they've cancelled out and disappeared-- and your gamma has turned into this integral which is not very nice looking, and also not very important--don't worry about it. So we have a kind of a prime number theorem now for J of x. the prime power counting function, We can now say J of x 'twiddles' [~] the logarithmic integral. And we have an expression for the error, the difference-- if we subtract J of x minus the logarithmic integral, is equal to this error term. The most important term in the error term is that sum of logarithmic integrals of x to the rho. If rho are your non-trivial zeroes, they are really controlling the size of that error term. Now your non-trivial zeroes are symmetric around the real part of s equals a half line. If all your non-trivial zeroes actually lie on the real part of s equals a half line, then that error term will be as small as possible. Nearly forty years after Riemann and 100 years after Gauss first thought of the Prime Number Theorem, mathematicians were finally able to prove it. And the proof involved the Riemann zeta function. In particular, they showed that the zeta function has no zeroes on the line real part of s equals one. And that did it! That proved the Prime Number Theorem! Hooray! Now, the error term for the Prime Number Theorem well--that's controlled by the non-trivial zeroes of the zeta function--the Riemann Hypothesis. And that still isn't proven, so boo! But if the Riemann Hypothesis is true, then the error term has a bound. It has to be less than c square root of x, log of x. for some constant c. So it can't be as big as it wants to be. The Prime Number Theorem also tells us that the average gap between consecutive primes should be about log(x). And if the Riemann Hypothesis is true, then there is a similar bound on consecutive primes. Other consequences of the Riemann Hypothesis are things like the weak Goldbach conjecture. The Weak Goldbach Conjecture says that any odd integer greater than five can be written as the sum of three primes, and that would be true if the Riemann Hypothesis is true. Another consequence--one I like-- is if the Riemann Hypothesis is true, then there will always be a prime between consecutive cubes. Now the reason I like that is that means you can define a constant theta such that theta to the power three to the n, will always generate a prime number for all the values of n. It's called a Mill's Constant. They already exist, actually, but you have to use x as a prime. Now, if Riemann Hypothesis is true, then x doesn't just have to be a prime. And then you would get lots more Mills' Constants, the smallest of which would be 1.30637 something something. So I like that one! There's a lot of evidence for the Riemann Hypothesis we've found lots of zeroes--trillions of zeroes on that critical line--that real part of s equals a half line, Unfortunately, Godfrey Hardy showed that there are infinitely many zeroes on that line. This is evidence--but none of it is conclusive evidence, I'm afraid. Now, if you want to win that million dollars, you have to prove the Riemann Hypothesis. Unfortunately, if you find a counterexample, if you find an example of a zero which is not on the critical line the real part of s equals a half line, and you disprove the Riemann Hypothesis-- no million dollars! No million dollars for you, no! There is no million dollars if you disprove it by counterexample. So I'm afraid, mathematicians, it is now over to you! And if you have been, thanks for watching.