Climate change isn't going on for the And what was clear in that room of the them are slowing down in the race to So the US is either going to show up for its businesses and its workers, or watch other people eat our lunch. national climate adviser Ali Zaidi Janeiro. COP 29 negotiations and tension is new annual climate finance goal for the And the upcoming change of government in is also opening up an opportunity for Trump. head of API research, Ali Izadi. COP meetings and what can we expect this So level of progress, particularly around Article six but now it has been bogged the climate finance pledge, as well as come out of this call on the climate So if this is about negotiations are on replace the original 100 billion climate $2,900 billion, was targeting climate And beyond that target was met a bit time around. but also address challenges around the recipients on the contributors under Most of the negotiations around wealthy Middle Eastern economies such as On the contributors side, while the down the scope to emerging markets, economies that are well-off and Middle on the contributors and the recipient some level of progress. five out of ten. amount, this is where things are a lot A lot of numbers have been thrown around year. particularly developed economies that difficult for them, particularly if the the higher share of that amount to come sovereign nations rather than institutions. recommitment to the fossil fuel Um, symbolically, yes. the last call that the UAE hosted where transitioning away from fossil fuels this time around. pushback from the likes of Saudi Arabia in their view. tackling climate change. repeated in an explicit manner. signal. of the economies that have pledged US under the Biden administration, as countries that have pledged to move away inflation environments and are living They have actually ended up increasing lowering taxation on things like So that's why even for countries that least in the short term, we haven't with real action. Alizadeh there in Australia is vying to Let's bring our next guest who sees a take a leadership role on climate in the Joining us now is Wesley Morgan, who's a Climate Risk and Response at the Wesley, really great to have you with And I mean, it's compelling, isn't it, trying to have a more dominant position time when we're seeing across the region. able to offer a climate solution to a Yes, I think that's right, that, you the Pacific Islands Forum, so works tackle shared challenges. crystal clear for quite some time that threat. UN climate talks with Pacific Island will send a signal to the world that nations as their key security partner, threat. to tell because the clean energy shift 40% of the main national electricity wind, solar and storage and we're on national grid by the end of this decade. power in Australia. and hosting the UN climate talks is a world. emerged again as one of the biggest Pacific nations don't benefit from that. impact of that. Those tensions sit uncomfortably here. It absolutely does. world's biggest exporters of gas and a gas, coal and iron ore to major Key exports for Australia. countries like Japan, like Korea, commitments to cut their emissions, that imports from Australia. minerals that will be important for technologies. critical minerals that are important for electric vehicles, for batteries. exports are going to shift away from of exports. be a chance to grow new markets for things like green hydrogen, green iron, investment as well. Australia will need to resolve with Island countries are calling for a rapid production and a managed phase out. without its challenges, but a chance to shifting from its past as a fossil fuel energy powerhouse. incoming president of the United States, especially come 2026? Australia? I mean, the president elect in the denier. a hoax and has said that he wants to Agreement. Australia, they really need to step up So Australia is a middle power in global their weight around like major, major And we have a strong national interest So that means when countries come to like security, our interest is in that we have made together. So it took a whole generation of world's wealthy nations and developing Agreement. we have to cooperate to tackle the drive down emissions. responsible powers and reinforce And the reality is that, you know, United States own interests because economy. with major powers racing for advantage technologies that we will all be using So Australia will see that as being pursue that. Labor Party and the Australian climate funding? Well, obviously this year's UN climate So this is the grand bargain that's at climate, is that wealthy nations will help them to shift to clean energy as I mean, that's the only way that we're So wealthy nations have a responsibility Australia has just announced a new $125 neighbours shift towards renewable But Australia certainly could be doing So, you know, Australia is taking on a underway right now, in fact through the And Australian Climate Minister Chris helping to find a landing zone for the So taking on a leadership role there as with Wesley. appreciate your time. UN Institute for Climate Risk and More on Australia Head every Tuesday at If you're watching in Sydney, 8:40 a.m.