You may have scrolled past one pyramids in the background of Instagram posts. But chances are, what everyday life was really From ballgames to body on chocolate, the has a lot more in common than you'd probably ever think. Today, we're exploring like for the ancient Mayans. But before we get started, to the Weird History Channel. Oh, leave a comment too and let would like to hear about. OK, time to get Mayan. The ancient Mayan spanning across most including southern Mexico, and Guatemala. The Mayans were an and if you could avoid getting gods that were spend your days working eating The ancient Mayans may have their gods, but without a few spiked One ceremonial drink, balche, and was sweetened with honey. The Mayans considered this So if you're ordering They also got chocolate wasted that were often spiked If you're ever at a house watch out for that punch bowl. The Mayans definitely took In fact, a lot of in order to be as intoxicated There is actual that depicts the act of Mayans off their bums, through a the world's first frat bros. Mayans were around before gold teeth and grills style, but that doesn't mean before it was on the trend. The Mayans had an advanced form especially when it came A trip to the dentist was more than a sterile, fluorescent scape we know it as today. In fact, it wasn't to get gems drilled through skillfully Miraculously, my dentists without hitting any Lack of nerve damage the Mayan dental practices But it was worth it a mouth full of gems. They may not have had but at least, you'd looking like Lil Wayne. And if there's a get sacrificed to the you might as well look Probably one of the of the ancient Mayan was their tendency to Children were usually because of their but it is also common for and even average Mayan in sacrificial ceremonies. And if that's not enough their primary method involves cutting open the If that's not do all of that on and throw the lifeless body If you had to climb you'd want to be sacrificed too. The Mayans knew how to knew how to eat. The three staples were maize, squash, and beans, trio otherwise known Aside from the chili peppers, sweet potatoes, onions, and garlic. For meat, they ate turkey, known as peccary, and fish. The Mayans were also to make corn tortillas. So if you love chips show some respect to the Mayan They also invented tamales and to roast cacao seeds Thank you, Mayans, for that. If you think tattoo-covered be thankful you never ran into Their process for involved getting painted culminating in another coat That process sounds horrifying than tattoo gunned on your ankle. If you were Mayan you were considered one of Remember that the next sent you home for showing off You're just as brave who got cut open and painted. Men would wait until after and women would get tattoos as Piercings were popular too, but also as bloodletting In a move more punk than could ever imagine, minds would and tongues with thorns for both cosmetic and The Mayans were partly so were master jewelry makers. Only men wore nose Whether the piercing was for you can definitely say of their faces, ahem, holey. If you were an wanted to blow off some you'd probably pok-a-tok, the oldest team sport Unlike a casual game of pok-a-tok was not for Even LeBron James might have a 10 pound rubber ball with and hips. The game was notoriously would die of internal bleeding of getting hit with the ball. Often, prisoners would be in a game of pok-a-tok get sacrificed to the gods. That is the epitome of If you ever feel like your to society's standards, alive during the when the peak standard of beauty an elongated skull in the Mayans wanted so badly to yellow vegetable that similar to the their infants malleable skull for long periods to achieve the look du jour. But hey, it's still probably Imagine a world racing to get a resembled George Costanza. The five head look was big to the point where men burn their hair lines drastic receding hairline. The elite class also wore consisting of and other precious materials. Our elite class today Just look at the headdresses attended the Fyre Festival. The Mayans thought with tobacco, a sav that made alcoholism with a shot of vodka. They were also guilty of like thinking the cure was getting drunk on Definitely sounds like a drunk Various medical gaffes were an incredibly hygienic While other cultures were the Mayans had figured out the and mouths after eating and baths before With all the piercing, and crazy hairdos, the knew to keep it simple Men typically wore And sometimes, they added Women wore blouses But what would a society take their fashion up a notch? At ancient Mayan probably see wealthy wearing elaborate getups, Among commoners, women raising children, and making pottery. It may sound stale compared but hey, at least gender roles While women worked worked in the fields And that was no easy ancient Mayans didn't use to help them tend to crops. Farming was all done by the Talk about DIY. Most minds, regardless lived in residential compounds all under the same roof. Even if you were a was no escaping your in-laws. Their houses consisted of around patios and terraces made from limestone floors and adobe-covered walls. The Mayans are often lauded for genius, but coming up with a sounds pretty smart. You never have to sweep. You'd probably get some if you had to get around the Cities were connected through or sacbeob, which were raised high as eight feet. And since the Mayans didn't slaves had to carry often in large slave chains. To get to more remote traveled by canoes that were In any case if you wanted in ancient Mayan times, it to just stay at home and chill. Life for the ancient If you could survive in their human sacrificing, basketball playing probably also be jonesing Bottoms up! How would you like to live Let us know in the And while you're some of these other weird