- There are multiple Some artists work for the and they really don't care Some really wanna make an impact in their immediate community. However, the traditional is, really, external recognition. What galleries showed your work? What museums show your work? Is your work selling? Is it entering the auction market? The amount of money collectors What are the factors that really drive these measurable successes? Before starting my studies in science, I wanted to be an artist, and and I hang out with artists Many of my friends, as that they have only one to really express their talent, to paint, to sculpt, and it is not their job to be discovered. That's society's work. One of the reasons I'm beyond the intellectual is because art is very different from other measures of performance. If you are a runner, I can and measure how fast you run, and that will uniquely determine whether you're a good and also will determine the The problem in art is that In contemporary art, to look at the work in isolation and decide what is its In the contemporary art context, the value of an artwork is determined by very complex networks. Who is the artist? Where that artist had exhibited before? Where was that work exhibited before? Who owns it, and who owned it before? And how these multiple links connect to the canon and to So if we want to understand how, really, value we need to really map and the multiple networks that A few years ago, we did that. Through this mapping process, we ended up getting a where it turned out the most connected nodes, the most prestigious museums. MoMA, Tate, Gagosian Gallery- some of the biggest museums worldwide. The most interesting was that it allowed us to That is, if you give me an artist and their first five exhibits, and we could fast forward their career, where they gonna be 10, 20 years from now. And the predictions were You have to think from the and the gatekeepers are the institutions. And the network of how the and who is paying attention to whom, is really the one that determines your access to the art because the path towards if you're already next to it, and it's very difficult from the periphery. But our research did We ended up finding about, who really started from the from unknown institutions, and made it all the way to the top. And what the data indicated is that they did not follow the traditional advice of how you succeed as an artist: which is get a gallery, That is, the gallery will Rather, these artists the periphery to the center, at the beginning of their career, they worked with many, many institutions. They practically exhibited everywhere they were willing to show their work. And through these many they ended up hitting a couple that offer the path for It's really reconfirmed of how and how important it is for an artist to really understand the networks in which their work is embedded in in order to guarantee that sooner or later the work will arrive or he Artistic success is Location is one of them. Talent is another one. Talent is what gives you access to the nodes that you start working. Talent is the one that gives And the more talented you are, more and higher level institutions are willing to work with them. So the reason we can predict your future from the first five exhibits because by who was in your five exhibits is already and your future journey in the art world. The problem is that as a young artist, you don't really understand and which is more connected. Of course, everybody and the big, big galleries, among the many small galleries who may have a path towards the center. The question you need to ask: Are you there in the In the short run, you can and these many social networks. But if you are in for the long run these noise-making effects The question is: Can you that resonates with the time, and has a unique visual characteristics? In that sense, science The influential artists and are those on whose work the next generation of artists