It's a sad reality that most startups first few years after they're created. And each one of those But there are 10 things that most startups I'm going to walk through what they are, end I'm going to give a bonus item talking can end up becoming undead zombies. Welcome to Feel the Boot, I'm your host, Lance Cottrell, and vertical learning curve you're going to I know what it's like, I've been there other founders along their journeys. This episode is part of an entire series link, I think, up there so you can find This episode and every other as both an article and as a podcast, I'll put links to those There's a nearly infinite number of largely fall into ten general buckets. So let's go into those one at a time in Number one, not enough product need. This breaks down into two subcategories. The first is that the This is a matter of customer priorities. So, your product may in fact but they don't care that much. They have dozens of other priorities that And so, even if you gave them the they probably wouldn't want to spend the it doesn't make that much difference. It's not going to move And the other case is where the So, it solves their problem. It might not be perfect, it might not it generally lets them get the job done. This is a fundamental problem there's no way around it. If you're doing your market research and badly or the things they've got work I sincerely hope you're not watching this and discovered this when you went to out of this other than a fundamental You're going to need to pivot your Number two: Running out of money. This may seem like an obvious tautology, When you're running along trying enough revenue to be able to break to reach that next big milestone. But you're not quite getting there. Growth is slower than you expected. The money is slowly running out. And as the money runs out, When you're right at the end, it's You haven't hit the Investors don't want to work with you. You're needing to cut back and That makes your customer experience You don't have the money to spend on Everything's going wrong. And when you try to do this at the last There's no way to go from one month without truly radical surgery, like stopping all activities, which puts a The key here is you As soon as you start to see that your actually hitting your growth projections. You know, that slope is not going to get need to be out raising that next round. And that next round won't get raised It's time to adjust your plan immediately. Start readjusting. What's your burn rate? How do you get there? Can you do more bootstrapping? Maybe you even start raising earlier on Go back to your existing investors if doing, but you have to take steps now you're over a barrel, you're out of money, allow you to make other plans or pivot. You're just up against a wall. Number three, gaps in the team. The team is the most important thing likely that you're going to pivot. The details of your initial plan are people in the company need to be the core. And so you need to have the people who There's a lot of things a company not core to the nature of your You need to make sure you've So if you're a highly technical really complex software or doing You need people on that initial Or if you're mostly about brand and about brand and marketing on that team. You shouldn't be building that company It's gonna be a huge mistake. So you've got all of these different need to have, things they need to do. I recommend that you set up a matrix to have critical gaps in your capabilities. So across the top of the matrix, The kind of engineering you need, manufacturing, marketing, branding. Customer relationships. Maybe it's even audience people, influencer or someone with access public speaker into the groups that it might be, list all of those out. And you might even mark them How important are these items? Then down the side, Who do you got? And what boxes do they check off? Hopefully, you're checking You want to have as much Then, think about who else Either by name, you know some people Or as sort of blank slates, We need a person like that to make They don't all need to Those could be people you could hire. They could be people on the sideline full time as soon as you're funded. A lot of ways to slice this, but make you need and how you're going to get that team that's going to succeed. Because if you're missing big pieces, don't actually successfully go to market, customers, your customers don't trust you. Lots of ways things go wrong if you Number four, competition. Competition can kill you in The first is you're just not the incumbents in the space. Because the incumbents They already have those customers. They're already using that tool. Now you need to convince people To go use a new solution, to retool, to And, if you're a startup, you're a new company that may or may not Which is why people say startups times better, faster, or cheaper You can't be 10 percent better. People won't adopt your product. So be very honest with yourself those other players and whether The other problem is fast followers. They're not competitors right now, doing and you're starting to get customers, you've now proved out that So, why can't a significant existing of resources, go jump in with your and eat your lunch right away? The only answer can be And there's so many different of sorts of strategic power. You could have intellectual property, could be building up an amazing brand. Right? There's a number of ways you can approach Remember, the competitive analysis is asking you to do because they want And so you respond by putting together because you get to check a lot of boxes And so it looks good. You had a lot of green marks. They've got a lot of red marks. But that means nothing. What matters to your customers? What allows you to operate in this space? How do you stack up against these? And which of these are things that and which are things that you can that whole picture for yourself? Because it should be informing If you don't have a defensible space not enough differentiated from the to make people change, you need your business model and the kind of you put in all the work to build it. Number five, pricing problems. There are three ways that The most common, is the race to the the competitors is that you're cheaper. And the problem is, this is a In general, your competitor can also a large incumbent, often undercut structure is better than yours. And if your only advantage was If you're doing something disruptive costs than the incumbents, then you But lots of companies get killed quickly squeezes all of the profit everyone's just suffering, scrambling Another problem is when When you're trying to say, this command a higher price, which will we want to see in our company. And the question here is, do your Do they think you're that much better not only willing to switch, but pay more It's super luxurious. It's a brand they want It has features or capabilities that And they're willing to You're going to want to test that assumptions about that are correct. And the third is that there's a way your customer perceives value. It's important that these be aligned so much value, they are paying twice as much, them to pay twice as much, they better be at least twice as much value from it. And the structure needs to fit with the way they want to experience it. Not every solution makes sense It could be a one time purchase. Although I'm not a big fan of those, It could be a pay as you go model. It could be a capitated model for number of people in the company. It could be a number of seats. It could be tiered. But you want to make sure that it I've seen a lot of cases where the at 100 seats and so pretty quickly only have 99 seats on the platform. So spend some time talking to those in general Explore pricing with your So not just saying hey What would you But try to box them in on this. How do they want to pay for it? Give them several options, ask them There's a number of tools for working Things like the Van Westendorp price And I'll put a link down in the that and you probably have no idea what, to type in it for my saying it, but mismatches that can hurt your company. Before I move on to the second half do me a favor, and you can probably Like, Subscribe and ring that bell. It makes a huge difference to the knows this is the type of content that not always great at remembering to show you to go to FeelTheBoot.com and sign I'll put up a card there and That makes sure you get alerted every It also has lots of additional content you access to my free office hours. Speaking of office hours, if you go of options to get on my calendar if you I love working with founders. Number six, failure to transition So you've got your MVP or beta product You're getting great feedback. And now it's time to launch that 1. 0 and start your big growth push. And then problems start to pop up. Maybe the speed starts to collapse as of bugs from the new features you're flying the fail whale every time you service is not available at the moment. It can be tricky to move from that And I think the main reason is there is Certainly not in software. We're almost always building that MVP crazy and learning from customers. And then trying to turn that into the 1. 0 version of the product. Then we're suddenly inheriting this because when we built that MVP, We're using whatever tools come to hand. We're cobbling things together We're ignoring security. We're ignoring good coding practices in favor of being able to get something But, now, you can't maintain the product. You can't easily add new features. You can't adapt it to new kinds of backend you want to integrate into the system. It's an unmaintainable mess that's And, we all do it. Management says we're going to the 1.0 version of the product. I've said this, everyone's said this, you end up promoting the prototype So there's only two ways out of this to throw away the prototype and build the proper practices Or, build the prototype It will take longer, it is more work, it's But lots of companies have fallen apart version to work the way it needed to, super excited, very early adopters. Number seven, poor product timing. There is a magic moment for any solution that is in that Goldilocks moment yet flooded with other competitors, exactly know when that's going to be. We all have pretty cloudy crystal balls. And of course, knowing it is &quot;right You needed to have started your company. If you're too early to the market, doing and you're going to wallow while you're trying to attract I made this exact mistake when I We were doing consumer internet privacy. And the World Wide Web had only So, I'd go out and say, Hey, you need to And the response was, Wow, tell Fortunately, I had set up the company I had multiple other non privacy allowed me to continue to build experiment while awareness came along. So when the internet started to get was ready, we already had the product But it's only because I had People weren't going to invest because at that early point, And they would have been The other mistake of course, You see an area is red hot. Everyone's talking about it. You want to go launch company into it. It then takes you say three, six By which point everyone else has seen space is just ridiculously crowded. I see this all the time. When an area gets hot, a couple of months I see is an almost identical business missed that window of opportunity. It's far, far harder to succeed a startup coming from a standing So the key here, as with Making sure that you've looked at what opportunities, how are things changing. Talking to potential customers, also maybe sort of the later term is their level of interest in this. Do they understand the problem? Do they feel the pain point that you're would make them want to adopt this? Or maybe soon. So you're looking for those saying that in, say, six months. This will really be where it's at, at who's out there, who's working on startups in exactly your spot, right? You want to make sure that you're the last entrant into the race. Number eight loss of focus. Focus is everything in your startup. You are so resource constrained There percent of your time and effort, or two sleeping, into that laser focused challenging to run your startup. But if you start seeing opportunities opportunities everywhere, and begin sucks all the oxygen out of the room. It takes your eye off the You're moving slower. You're building features You're exploring other sort of parallel your core customers and delivering that to them but There's that reality we've So here's this mental paradox need to be Absolutely brutally on what's building your business. What's pursuing your strategy And keeping that might in fact be far superior to can't put much effort into them, right? You don't want to suddenly go alley and then discover that that That was all poison oak. And now you've gotten devastated of time and money doing it. But you may want to be spending a tiny strategic explorations, having discussions direction, talking to them about those tests that would allow you to determine And then the question is, going to have to do to pivot? Because if it's a significant pivot, the work you've already put in. Right. You're already some Is that even a viable activity? So at the end of the day, you need to You need to have strong Number nine, go to market failure. So you've got a product. It's great. It delivers value. Your early adopter customers love it. They're happy to pay for it. They're telling all their friends, Where, where are things going to go wrong? Well, there's two ways your And the first is you can't So if you find that person at the and articulate the value that Fantastic. But in many cases, there's only There's a transition someone's making. Let's say it's new parents. You really need to nail them right child if you're going to sell And if you hit them six months before or Six weeks later, they've You need to reach them in that instant. And it may not be something So, you know, you can hit people of existing parents, but in many cases, your and there may be no way of doing it. So you can get your first couple customers, but you need to be able to depending on whether you're B2B or B2C, And if you can't, then your The other scenario that you can run can find them, you can target them, And you can't afford to target them. But you do some experiments, you start and it turns out that your customer Your CAC is higher than That's never going to work out. And in fact, as a startup, you CAC to be say six months or a year. You know, even two years is, is you'll find that reaching those And so now, again, you can't the marketing that would scale. The methodologies for bringing in people or the social groups that you're already that first handful of customers, but needs to be to achieve a successful exit. The key here is testing go out there spend early money in small amounts Can you reach these people? Is that reasonably efficient? Do they convert things like that? And if either of those is turning need to be reconsidering your Maybe direct marketing is not the right strategy, because there's someone else either because they're pre existing through that transition, or they're an going to go look at them for this thing. If that's a synergistic relationship, doesn't compete with them, you can then a revenue share or some other kind of market and give you access to that space But in any case, you need to know that and will scale before you commit to ways of thinking about taking that path. Number 10. Co founder conflict. Building a startup by yourself than building it with a partner, Not only do you have twice as many have someone else to bounce ideas off. You have other sources of decisions, different perspectives All of those are a huge help, but just You're in a high pressure environment. You're spending a lot of time together. And things can go wrong. It may turn out that after a while, about the direction of the company And you just can't come to an end up breaking up over that issue. Or maybe one of you just can't afford You're forgoing salaries and you give up salaries for six months. Well, You're now 18 They can't do this anymore. They have to go pay mortgage college or things like that. So, they may need to leave. It could be that just living with last 18 months has gotten you to the You hate each other's guts and you That's not conducive to Once co-founders come into this kind of to the company, it's poisonous to all and when one of the founders leaves. Bad things happen, right? They typically are taking They're taking a third to a half of and that poisons the well for future gigantic chunks of dead equity on the not interested in renegotiating They're also a key part of your team. So now you need to backfill them And the momentum in the company, right? Generally, it's very disruptive So, how do you avoid this Well, the first thing is, Make experience with them beforehand. Do some test driving if Work on some projects together that co founder relationship. Spend some time doing hard things. See how you work together. Is there mutual respect? Do you have the same sort of in alignment on the strategies And then put this stuff down in writing. Make sure that everyone's Here's the kind of Here's we're going about it. Here's how we're going to Here's how the tiebreaker happens. Who is the final word What will happen if we run into wants to leave the business? Can we buy that stock back I highly encourage you to vest So if, in six months, things away with most of the company. In fact, in six months, they're In 18 months, there's still maybe have gotten at the end of the day. That can prevent that huge And then make sure that you're not single I know it's really hard in a startup, who else you'd hire, warming people who can back up the people you've got. Because even if the co founders of these co founder difficulties. There's always the someone Before I move on to the zombie company your experiences with startup failure. I think we spend way too much time many cases, I think they're not very Failure tends to be very specific. So whether you were the founder, co spectator, I'd love to hear about what failure and what you think caused it. And we could learn from it. I think the community as a whole exploring And finally, zombie corporations. These are companies that are able a certain level of success, be up Typically this is because they They've got. Either, you know, the extremely early later early adopters or very commonly who are excited about new tech, but People are not willing to take existing solutions are good enough. For them, they're just They want to see more proof, but you the early adopters and things flatline. And once they start flatlining, typically You don't have people willing to pump a company to help you create the value, marketing required to hit that next level. And things stay flat. The solution to this is to be somewhat earlier in the company. You don't want to wait until you see worrying about those later adopters. So about the time you're maybe a third to Be starting to talk to those later people. Understand their psychology. Why is this different for them? What do you need to be doing to appease solution, to make them maybe more and understanding how this stands out? What levels of proof Or Did they need to see to make this work? Are there third party supports Start making sure that you're So by the time you're starting to burn the ducks in a row for the larger middle allow you to go from, say, that 10 million dollars ARR as you expand into that big, Thanks for watching this episode. I hope you found it And if so, do the usual, like, I encourage you to now maybe here on fast funding rejections. Most of the applications to my angel directly get rejected in under a minute, And so I'm not even There's a lot of reasons that you can end and you should avoid them at all costs, And until next time, ciao.