Mr. Chu has a good alcohol tolerance Hahaha pretty Mr. Chu Can our cooperation succeed this time? It depends on your glass of wine. Mr. Chen, I really can't drink anymore If Mr. Chen asks you to drink, just drink. Don't let this little thing affect cooperation. Brother Xuan, Sister Qingxue doesn't seem to be feeling well. I drink for her Need not You are weak Can't drink alcohol She is in good health and can drink a lot She just drinks it. Drink it We will sign the contract immediately Brother Xuan I feel dizzy. Let me take you to the hospital. I'm allergic to alcohol but I still drink so much I drank so much that my stomach got perforated. Where is my husband? Do you have a husband? Then he let you drink outside alone? If someone hadn't found you fainted Take you to the hospital You might even lose your life. Contact your husband immediately and ask him to come to the hospital. Sister Qingxue, Brother Xuan insisted on taking care of me personally Don't misunderstand me. Yurou is drunk I want to take care of her We will postpone getting our marriage certificate tomorrow. But our license has been delayed for half a year. You can get your marriage certificate anytime. We'll talk about it another day Hello 8 years of love This is Fu Jixuan's 99th time Unilaterally refused to get a marriage certificate with me Fu Jingxuan, will you marry me? I will never marry anyone but you in this life We will have our wedding at the end of the year Before that Find a good day to get a marriage certificate Fu Jingxuan Since you have time to take care of others There is no time to get married with me Then there is no need to get this marriage certificate. I agree to marry Gu Yanchen from the Gu family Sister Xixi, you are back Yurou just lost her balance and fell down Don't get me wrong. Yuxuan took her back to our home Yurou is not feeling well It's too dangerous to live with a few people I just Promise her that we'll pick you up when she comes to our house. Fu Jingxuan Have you forgotten that this is our home? Brother Xuan, shouldn't I come here? Chu Jingxuan, are you done yet? Do you want people to live on the streets? Welcome to our happy house So many years since graduation We finally have our own home From now on It's just the two of us here. I'll let him stay in the guest room. Well, he can live wherever he wants. Anyway, this is not my home anymore. Wait a moment Wait a moment Anything else? Down is a bit uncomfortable Go help the down to sleep well The eyes are heavy. I just came back from the hospital. Feeling unwell Let's go Brother Xuan, Sister Qianxue, do you hate me? Qianxue, if you don't want to do it, then don't do it. Why find such a lame excuse? Did you know that I almost died because of my allergy to alcohol? Alcohol allergy Alcohol allergy is intolerance If you have intolerance, just drink a few more cups. Isn't it because of me that you and I delayed getting the marriage certificate? Are you angry with me? Isn't it just a marriage certificate? When can I get it? Stop getting mad at me over such a small matter. My patience is limited good Brother Xuan, I still feel a little uncomfortable I'll take you to the room. Hello Miss Chu, I don't know you. You really thought about Lei Yan's matter carefully. The next day, I will fly to the Resistance Car and Lin Ling's party Breakfast is ready Eat it while it's hot My brother is so delicious Eat more if it tastes good It turns out that he can't cook. Just don't want to do it for me Get up and have breakfast Sister Qianqiu really envies you I can eat breakfast made by Brother Xian every day. This is the first time I have eaten such a delicious breakfast. What a coincidence It's my first time too. Sister Qingxue, I was too scared last night I just asked Brother Xuan to accompany me My dear, please don't be angry with Brother Xuan in the future. Don't get me wrong, I sleep on the floor You don't have to explain this feeling to me. Isn't it just getting the marriage certificate on a different date? It's not like I won't receive it. As for marriage till now I'm really not angry A gift specially selected for you You should calm down after receiving the gift. It seems he has forgotten This is the third time he gave me the same thing. It's just that the date of receiving the certificate has been delayed. The previously scheduled wedding will be held tomorrow as normal The invitations have been sent out. The guests invited are all important customers. This is important for the company Stop being so irritable. I promise you that we will get the marriage certificate after the wedding tomorrow. good Then you should prepare yourself well. I'll ask my assistant to pick up your marriage certificate tomorrow. I will prepare a wedding well. The wedding preparations have begun I won't help you book a wedding dress shop. The wedding preparations have begun I'll help you book a wedding dress shop You can choose any wedding dress inside Can you pick a wedding dress you like? good Liu Xiaojing has a stable job I have to go out first, please go slowly Not where you're going. I go to the mall to buy some things I'll take you there. Just sent my daughter home Thank you, Mrs. Brother Xuan I think I left the necklace you gave me there. Just a necklace I'll take you to buy another one later. No, that was the first gift you gave me. I have to carry it with me at all times OK So where do I take you now? Take a taxi to the mall. Checkout card holding Buy whatever you want. Let's go Hello I'll choose the wedding dress Miss Chu, right? Please come inside Today's wedding dresses All designed by international masters Miss, you are free to choose Zixuan Our company was just established There are still many places where you need to spend money in the future You take these first. Zixuan, close your eyes. Together? Thanks I will definitely give you the most grand wedding in the future What is the mission? Awake Why is it you? You need to go home Just go back this I want Brother Xian to go shopping with me. Sister, don't be angry. For example, I want to buy two sets of clothes for you I was with him. fine My sister is here to pick out a wedding dress. Then I'll let Brother Xuan accompany you. I have arranged everything for the wedding. I've chosen my wedding dress. You can wear whichever suit I choose. Such a waste of time I might as well go back to the company to handle my work. Some things are up to you to choose. I'm going to try this one Okay, follow me. Why can't I close this zipper? ah Yu'er, what's wrong with you? I don't know why I suddenly feel very hungry. Qu Yuan Miss Chu, you are Mr. He is not my husband. Excuse me I'll take the wedding dress first. Miss Chu is fine. Find him at the address OK, your address is Old Chen Gujia After tomorrow, I will have nothing to do with Fu Jinxuan anymore. Sister Fu has your express delivery This is our wedding guest list You can decide who to invite to the event Everything about the wedding is prepared according to your wishes The 8-year relationship between Zhu Jie and the vice president Finally it's coming to fruition Sister Zhu and the deputy general manager are a perfect match This wedding will definitely be a grand one. My wedding will be grand indeed. Look at the guest list again. I had already prepared the guest list. The guests invited are all the company's big customers. You can't change it All you need to do is take care of yourself Just don't embarrass me. Make this, I'll use it. You find someone else. I'm quitting my job What did you say What are you making trouble for? I just don't let you change the guest list. You're going to make me angry by quitting. This is my resignation application. Vice President, please sign. Brother Xian, is my file ready? Find someone to do it today. It will be ready soon Thank you, cleaning lady, for helping me with the documents despite being so busy. No need to thank me, I'm resigning now I can't help you. Cleaning lady, you can't quit your job Brother Xian's company can't do without you Vice President, I'm getting married. I don't want to show up anymore. Working in your own company is also called showing off. Why do you want to marry me? Just stay at home as a housewife? Vice President Signature Since you insist on resigning Then lend all your work to Li Long. From now on Mengxue Group is with you. Don't worry, sister. The company also has Brother Xian I will take good care of you I won't let you worry I'll leave it to you. Now that you've resigned Then go back and prepare for our wedding. Those who come tomorrow are all well-known and prominent. Don't let me down I won't let you down tomorrow. Singing The vice president and Mr. Chu have been in love for 8 years From school uniforms to wedding dresses The depth of the feelings is really enviable They not only love each other but also know each other They also co-founded the Muxue Group Welcome all guests to attend Fu Jingxuan, President of Muxue Group Wedding with his wife Chu Qingxue The bride and groom have gone through 8 springs and summers Now they are officially married Come down Let's welcome Chu Qingxue to the stage with warm applause Where is the bride? Why haven't you appeared yet? Didn't the vice president just call for someone? Did something happen? Why haven't the new students come yet? It won't be that he won't come. He has been planning for the wedding for so long. 8 years He can't possibly not come today. I sent a car to pick him up a long time ago. It seems that the bride is a little shy Let us once again give warm applause Welcome Chu Qingxue to the stage Vice President Where is Chu Qing Snowman? Ask him to come quickly. Mr. Chu. What did he disappear? Are you kidding? She is the bride of my wedding How could he not come? Absolutely true There was no one knocking on the door downstairs No one responded Hello, the user you are calling How dare you not answer my call? What kind of evidence is this? Just this Chu Qingxiu, no matter how you are now Come to the wedding right away. Miss Chu won't really not come, will she? Brother Xian, since Senior Qing doesn't want to marry you We should shut up. What is your identity? You also cooperate with Senior Qing freeCancel Not next I know you're in there Get out now Where are you? Eight years of relationship Eight years of dedication In exchange for nothing Let this all end Fu Jinxuan, let's break up Travel Package Chiyuki What are you doing here? Brother Xuan, Sister Qianxue She's gone, but I'm still there I can flip the car. Once a letter from the sky roll You know, white hair Let's break up Why did you break up with me? Just block me. He can't leave me Use all your connections and dignity to investigate. Where on earth did he go? just on me I wish I could not I'm just going to love you to love you i'm tragedy god Our company was finally established Thank you for supporting my dream Start Today Our company is called Buxue Group good I promise you From now on, I will only love you will you marry me marry him marry him marry him marry him marry him marry him I do Qingxue, I don't believe you will leave The vice president found out Miss Chu bought a ticket to Hong Kong City at 5 o'clock What about marrying someone else? It's impossible He wanted to marry me in the early morning We spent half a year preparing for our wedding. How can I marry someone else after so many years? Some things are up to you to choose. Vice President I'm getting married I don't want to show up anymore. Sunny I won't let you marry someone else. Fly to Hong Kong Airlines at 2pm Flight is about to take off Please start, passengers. Servings Poor Poor actually Long time no see, it's you Qianxue, so many years have passed You haven't changed at all This ring is for you It means I will always protect you. Treat you well forever Yeah Yeah Yeah When I grow up, I want to marry Brother Yancheng I didn't expect that the person I contacted would be you This is fate My father and mother Long time no see oops Heart Snow Oh You are here Auntie, I've been looking forward to your coming. Come and sit down Oh, I haven't seen you in these years. You are getting more and more beautiful Ha ha Can you be the daughter-in-law of our Gu family? It's our family's blessing. Hahaha Yeah, look. This is a gift from your aunt. I'll collect it for you. Haha Aunt Gu This is too expensive. sit down My mom gave it to me. You just take it Our two families have been friends for generations. Then it will be even better after you two get married. I'm looking forward to you Hurry up and give me a big fat grandson, mom Thank you, Mom She speaks her mind Don't mind it once you get used to it. It's okay, Auntie means well. Tomorrow is our wedding Clear Snow Where is Qingxue? Are you sick? Mom, didn't you say you would pick me up? Why didn't I see you? I asked Yanchen's child to pick you up. You should be seeing him soon. The one who came to pick me up was Gu Yanchen But I haven't met him at all. You must know that kid. Hello Mom Clear Snow haven't seen you for a long time It's you Are you okay? I'm fine I said I would always protect you You took the jokes we made when we were kids seriously. I don't think it's a joke You really mean what you say. I have always liked you I want to protect you From the beginning I never considered you as a lover. Don't worry I will spend the rest of my life fulfilling what I said today rouge Tomorrow is the wedding I want to have a good rest tonight What do you think of this wedding dress? Very beautiful, you are always the most beautiful in my eyes Go inside What about me I have a surprise for you What a surprise It's not a surprise anymore. Wait for me Um Back so soon Here it comes Review How can you marry someone else? Qin Xue will wait until you get married. If Ye Cheng dares to bully you Tell me I'll support you. That's right. You guys will be on the second floor soon. Come and see the wedding room I prepared for you If there is anything that is not to your liking Let's change it immediately, hahahaha good Then let's go Go See if there's anything that needs to be changed. All good, I like it very much That's good It's all arranged according to your preferences. What does it matter to you who I marry? No problem You are my fiancee Fu Jingxuan We're done Qin Xue As long as you come home with me now We immediately went to the Civil Affairs Bureau to get our marriage certificate. The wedding dress and wedding ring are yours to keep We will invite whoever you want to invite to your wedding. After marriage, whether it is a honeymoon trip or something else All arranged for you Then what Please, What else do you want? Fu Jinxuan Haven't you realized the reality yet? I'll formally inform you once We have broken up 8 years of relationship Why would you get unilateral consent? I need your I am going to marry Gu Yanchen soon. Please respect yourself Don't think I don't know You and Gu Yanchen have no emotional foundation at all You married him just because you were mad at me As long as you come home with me now We can still go home This is my home I won't go with you. OK You must come home with me today Let me go, let me go You go, you go open Are you okay? Fu Jingxuan, I warn you He is my fiancee now. Please leave now Then I'll tell you too He is my wife I have to take him away today. Enough Fu Jingxuan I kiss you No certificate I didn't attend your wedding. There is no relationship between us at all A sea of people Jingxuan Jingxuan I know you're still mad at me As long as you come back with me now I can promise you anything, okay? Please leave Don't interfere in my affairs anymore. If it doesn't work I will never leave Fu Jingxuan, don't you like Wei Ru? I set you free No, it's the same as you. She's just my secretary. I have nothing to do with her. I can swear to you I've never done anything to offend you. Then I'll call him now. Let him explain it to you Brother Xiao You've decided to marry me, haven't you? When did I say I wanted to marry you? Brother Xuan, you clearly said before Shut up Feng Zixuan This is what you just kept saying. A woman who has nothing to do with you Xuanxuan, isn't that what he said? Brother Xuan, I will always wait for you Start Today You were fired Qin Xue Believe me I'm not afraid It's really snow. I wish you overnight revenge Happily Ever After Have a baby soon Ye Chen, our wedding is about to begin let's go No, no I'm not allowed to leave We have been in love for 8 years I can't marry anyone else. Fu Jingxuan If you dare to disrupt my wedding with my wife again I'll ask someone to invite you Are you done yet? And I Beat me for another man You filmed my kung fu in front of me Do you really think I have no temper? You are just pity We are the true love go You keep saying you love, but what about the result? What you do Every single thing You are hurting her If you really like her Leave her Please go all by yourself We're done, really. ah no You can't let Ji Jun marry him. snow snow snow Back off, back off, back off now i come up Hahaha Rain and Snow snow There could be an explosion ahead at any time. You can't go in I've been trapped for 70 years. Get out of here. it's so dark Come back soon I'm waiting for you at home keep the mind so don't let me cry Jin Xue Jin Xue Vice President, you finally woke up You've been in a coma for a day and a night. Where is Qin Xue? What will happen to Qin Xue? When I arrived Mr. Chu has already impossible He can't die How can he die? Gu Yan is looking for you He must be with Gu Yuanchen now Go find him and ask him clearly. Vice President, you are not well yet. Where is Jinxuan Jinshui? He is not dead He is not dead, right? Qiu Xue is gone Don't come and fight again. Don't you look like You promised me You won't leave me Sorry, I'm sorry. I hate you Please Can you come back? As long as you can come back I can do anything you ask me to do, okay? Come back Come back to me Ha ha ha ha Wife Wife Welcome Home Didn't my husband say he would wait for me at the company? Why come here in person? The Menghua Group you founded overseas Now it is very popular in the country I don't know how many people in China want to come to us for cooperation. The president of Menghua Group came back in person How can I not welcome it? Mr. Chu welcomes you to the Jiangcheng Branch of Menghua Group Inspection work I am only responsible for Menghua's overseas business. My husband is responsible for the domestic part I came this time I just accompanied my husband to visit the company. Why It is precisely because of the talented men and beautiful women like Mr. Chu and Mr. Gu that Menghua's talents can make a name for themselves in the business world Vice President of Menghua Group Ms. Qingna returned to China today Invite various companies to come on stage for cooperation knew Walk Two people tired from the journey Take the stairs first and take a break Vice President Menghua Group has arrived I'm sorry, Mr. Du It was intentional I have to receive the guests first. Someone will take us to inspect the work later. Mr. Gu is discussing plans with various companies today. We need you two to confirm it in person. You are more familiar with domestic business than I am You guys go ahead Okay, then take a look around. I'll meet you in the conference room later. good Our biological group representative came to see Manager Chen Manager Chen is handling work You two can go to the reception room and wait for a while. Wake up! Snow is really you I really miss you Don't leave me again, okay? This gentleman Do we know each other? Sir, what are you saying? I am Jinxuan I am your fiance We have been in love for 8 years Sir, I think you got the wrong person. I am not the savings you mentioned. You are my savings Five years of savings I think about you every day I really know I'm wrong Don't do this This is the ring we chose for our wedding. I wear it on me every day I just hope to see you again one day This gentleman I can see You have deep feelings for this woman named Qingxue. Feelings But you really got the wrong person. I know I've done a lot of things to let you down. You hit me You can scold me anyway. As long as you come back As long as it's my turn Live a good life with you Little snow I really don't know me I really don't know me What's wrong with you two? Manager Chen This gentleman seems to have confused me with everyone else. Do you know him? I just introduced This is the deputy police officer of Muxue Group. Vice President Cheng I just happened to have an appointment to discuss things at the company today. Vice President This is the CEO and founder of our Menghua Group. Ms. Tina Just got back today Hello, Vice President My name is Tina Is she really not Qingxue? Let me in I was locked up at 73 miles. Only this He won't bother me anymore. I didn't expect to meet you here. Vice President As soon as you came back, you were eager to check the details of Menghua Group. What's wrong with this company? It's not that this company has a problem. The boss of this company has a problem. You are talking about the hall of Menghua Group, right? There is indeed a problem This sounds like the car accident after Qingxue five years ago. Just like suddenly appearing Do you think she was born in 1975? Mr. Chu Absolutely You asked her out under someone else's name. yes How many times have I made a mistake this month? If you don't want to talk, just say so. Sorry, store manager. I really didn't mean it. continue He is not dead He is not dead What is Ye Yurou in a daze about? If you don't want to do this anymore, get out of here right now, boss. I'm going to entertain the guests. Chu Qianxue Miss I know you Chu Xinxue, even if you turn into ashes, I will still recognize you If it weren't for you How could Brother Xuan abandon me? I've fallen into this state today. It's all bullshit Yurou You have fallen to this point today You are the thugs who are doing the same thing to me. It's none of my business What about you? All the five girls are dead. Why did you suddenly return to Jiangcheng? Could it be that you still have feelings for Brother Ziqian? You're talking stop stop Brother Xian, I knew you would come back to find me. Are you okay? Qin Xue, I know it's you I just heard it. I know it's you Chu Qinxue Talk about your application We ended five years ago. Qin Xue I know I have done a lot of things to let you down. I know I was wrong The five years since your death There's not a day that I don't regret. Jingxue I know I have done a lot of wrong things I will make it up to you in the future. This proposal is 5 years late It's enough to show my determination. Representing my sincerity Jingxue, will you marry me? Vice President I am married Please respect yourself Light Snow Come back, okay? As long as you are willing to come back to me I can do anything Vice President My time is precious We only talk about business No private matters Vice President, please respect yourself Fu Jingxuan I didn't expect you to be the president of Muxue Group. It will also fall to the point where it is today Shut up If you love him enough How could I have had the chance to get close to you? You just don't admit it yourself You made the mistake. If you hadn't seduced me How could I be sorry? Qin Xue, you are the culprit. I tell you Enough I don't want to argue with you about who is right and who is wrong. If there is anything else I'm leaving first Enough I accidentally got into this trap. Chu Qingxue This is all your fault Why are you like that? Forced me to become what I am now It's all because of you Let's go and send the police Fu Jingxuan Are you okay? Go ahead alright Fu Jianxun, I am very grateful for your life-saving grace But these are two different things It's impossible between us. Let's break up if We got married again 5 years ago. Everything will not It will be different There is no if in this world Su Jinxuan, No See You Later Why did you come here suddenly? I'm worried about your children Don't worry fine Love