- This video is about learning styles. What kind of learner are you? - Oh yeah, I'm a visual person so I have to see things, yeah. - I think visual learner. - Visual. - I mean, like, I remember - I need to be like, - I like to learn by doing it myself. - Very hands-on. - Hands-on learner. - Hands-on? - So like, if I have a model, and look it over. - Part of this video was There is this idea in has their own preferred way of learning, their so-called learning style. If information is presented in accordance with the learning style, well, Now, there are dozens of but the most common one identifies four main learning reading-writing, and Visual learners learn best from images, demonstrations, and pictures. - People may say things, but I just gotta see 'em act it - [Derek] Auditory learners learn best from listening to an explanation. - Like in school, I was and that was usually good - [Derek] Reading-writing from reading and writing. - Like I can get pretty much anything out of reading a textbook or something. - [Derek] And kinesthetic Physically interacting with the world. - Hands-on. You have to touch things, you know, it's a contact sport. You have to do it yourself. - I want to try something I want to show you 10 pictures of things and I don't want you to say anything while you're looking at them, you tell me how many you can remember. - Okay. - Okay? - Okay. - Now, learning styles because we know everyone is different. Some people have better spacial reasoning. Others have better We know some people are better readers while others are good with their hands. - It's sort of very much of thought in the recent we're all unique, we're all different. And so you don't want to say, like, everybody learns the same way. That sort of conflicts with our feelings about what it means to be human. - So doesn't it make sense in their own preferred learning style? Well, teachers certainly seem to think so. A survey of nearly 400 and the Netherlands found that individuals learn better in their preferred learning style. - [Instructor] Just like every professor has a different style of teaching, you have a different style of learning. - [Instructor] But when his Johnathan finds it easier to focus and understand the material so he might be a visual learner. - [Derek] Can you tell me Like, what does it mean - To me it means that sometimes you need to draw or I need to see a picture or a movie. - For example, science just listening and I think to actually be able to do it. - [Derek] How do you know - I don't, I just assumed. - To take advantage of learning styles then teachers need to do two things. First, identify the learning style of each of their students. And second, teach each student in accordance with their learning style. On the VARK website it says, its power to explain things But before you take an it's a good idea to ask, do I mean, do you have one? And if you're taught would you learn better? Well, you could test this by running a randomized control trial where first you would identify learners with at least two say visual and auditory and to one of two educational presentations, one visual, one auditory. So for half of the students the experience will match and for the other half it won't. And then you give everyone the same test. If the learning style the results should show better performance when the presentation than when they're mismatched. I tried a very unscientific version of this experiment on the street. For some people, I matched so I showed visual learners but for other visual learners Bell, penguin, sun. - Okay, I'm maxed out. - [Derek] How many can you remember? - I don't know. - Hair, knife, duck, heart, butterfly. - Apple, bicycle, guitar. - There was a spider. Did I say eye already? - Trumpet, pear. - Butterfly. - Knife. - Heart. - Heart. - I couldn't tell you the - [Derek] Most people could remember only about five or six things. - Yeah, yeah. - All right. - Six. which is not bad, right? - That's a passing score. Candle. - Candle. But a few could remember say, eight or nine items. - Bug, I don't know if I said bug. Guitar, bike, eye, I'm forgetting the last two. - That's pretty good. - Oh, cool. - Nine? - Nine, very impressive. But the reason didn't seem to matched their preferred learning style but because they employed - So as you were showing I was So as I saw more I would and I was repeating the list so I could just say it out loud. - Did you try a strategy at those pictures? So I guess I tried creating a story 'cause it's easier to remember a story than just individual objects. So I tried to tie it all into one story. - This is all obviously but rigorous studies have been conducted. For example, one looked at instead of visual versus The study was computer-based, so first students' learning using questions like, would or see a diagram describing an atom? The researchers also provided with two buttons, visual The visual one played a short animation whereas the verbal help From these measures combined, the students as either and then the students to go through a text-based or picture-based lesson on electronics. When a student hovered in the lesson in the text-based group, a definition and clarification came up. But in the picture group, an annotated diagram was shown instead. And after the lesson, to assess their learning. The students whose matched their instruction than those whose The researchers ran the test again with 61 non-college-educated adults and found exactly the same result. But learning styles are a preference so how strongly do learners Well, in a 2018 study during over 400 students at a completed the VARK questionnaire according to their learning style. Then at the end of the semester the same students completed a So how did they actually Well, an overwhelming majority of students used study strategies which with their learning style, and the minority of students who did did not perform significantly differently on the assessments in the course. The visual auditory or VARK model came a school inspector in New Zealand. Describing the origins of VARK he says, I was puzzled when I who did not reach some learners I decided to try to solve this puzzle. There are, of course, many But one topic that seemed some explanatory power, was preferred modes of And thus, VARK was born. There was no study that revealed students naturally cluster Just some magic that might explain why some teachers can reach But how can this be? If we accept that some at interpreting and remembering than others like visual or auditory, then why don't we see or recall with different presentations? Well, it's because what we is not the precise nature of the images or the pitch or quality of the sound. It's the meaning behind the presentations. There are some tasks that of a particular modality. Learning about music, for example, should have an auditory component. Similarly, learning about geography will involve looking at maps. And some people will have greater aptitude to learn one task over another. Someone with perfect pitch, for example, will be better able to recall Someone with excellent will be better at learning the locations of countries on a map. But the claim of learning style theories is that these preferences will be consistent The person with perfect pitch should learn everything better auditorily but that is clearly not the case. Most people will learn Review articles of learning there is no credible evidence In a 2009 review, the between the enormous popularity of the learning styles and the lack of credible in our opinion, striking and disturbing. If classification of has practical utility, it - What we're expecting is, you're going to perform better than if you had some experience that And this is where we don't see any support for the learning styles theory. - One of the reasons many so convincing is because they For example, they might already think that they're a visual learner, shows them a diagram of, say, a bike pump and suddenly the concept clicks, well, they interpret this as evidence for their visual learning style. - You already believe that When you have an experience is that in some way consistent And if it is, you don't think further. - When in reality that diagram that would have helped anyone learn. When we already believe the then we interpret new experiences whether they actually do or not. So if learning styles don't improve learning, then what does? Well, there's a large body of literature that supports the claim with multimodal approaches where words and pictures rather than either Now there's gonna be words We're gonna see if this is any better. This is known as the multimedia effect, and it explains in part, at least, why videos can be such when the narration Duck. - Heart. - [Derek] In my PhD research, of misconceptions was essential in multimedia teaching - How many is that? - Six, okay, that's good. - That is a whole 50% better. Do you think that was easier? - Yeah, yeah, 100%, 100%. - Ultimately, the most is not the way the but what is happening People learn best when about the material, solving problems or imagining what happens if I talked about how and why we learn best in my video, &quot;The Science of Now, the truth is, there teaching methods that improve learning. Learning styles is just not one of them. And it is likely, given the prevalence of the learning styles misconception that it actually makes learning worse. I mean, learning styles give to worry about, and they to engage with certain And all the time and money and related training could be that actually improve learning. You are not a visual learner nor a kinesthetic learner, you are all these kinds of learner in one. The best learning experiences are those that involve multiple different ways of understanding the same thing. And best of all, this strategy works not just for one subset of (radio tuner chirping) This part of the video was Now, there are lots of topics out there that are controversial like Most people believe whereas educational researchers find no robust evidence for them. And if you search for learning styles, you'll get lots of sites But if you search for well, then you'll find articles about how there is very little evidence for the learning styles hypothesis. I think one of the most is only searching for information that confirms what they already believe. A common mistake is putting right in the search query. A better idea is to try another search, adding debunked or false at And Google makes it about the source of the information. Just click the three dots and then you can judge for yourself whether the information is trustworthy and if you want to visit the site. A Google Search is meant to surface the most relevant But it's up to you to try a few different searches, and assess whether the And the whole point of Veritasium So I'm excited to encourage everyone to think more critically I want to thank Google for and I want to thank you for watching.