Aren't they the Kuomintang's ragtag army? Why is there a sharpshooter? 600 meters Captain, are you okay? Bastard Missy The commander asked you to go back immediately. Walk Bastard I want to be beaten. I want to be beaten. Bastard Bastard Get out of here, you want to be beaten, you want to be beaten Bastard Going Around Run, run Run, run Quick, quick, run! Walk, run, walk Run Kill someone, run Over there, quick! quick here in No, no This side quick I told you that if you eat too much, you have to drink water. Do you eat too much? You eat better than a donkey. Don't feed the donkey salty food. Eat grass where to eat This is Akino-kun's best mount. Don't kill yourself It's going to die. Akino-kun can ride you. tomorrow I'll ask the kitchen to stew it tomorrow. Feed the grass! Fatty left. Who Chinese This is the Japanese bomb. Very good Otherwise I'd be exhausted. Can't kill them all. How can I make it ring? I research Over there Come to my office now yes How can I explode? Put the gun down If you surrender, I won't kill you. I'm dying of anxiety It's not going to explode, is it? beat quick Black Spot Walks Fortunately, I ran fast today. Otherwise, I would be dead here today. Brother is right, we brothers follow you It's just such a blessing. It seems that Qiu Ye has been ambushed again. Brother, can we save him? save Okay, I'll send you. I I'm not here for Save the lives of you little bastards. Only then did he surrender to the Japanese You're out of your mind. Don't move Taijun, what do you mean by pointing a gun at me? Listen to my explanation I'm not. I'm in disguise. Go out and scout the situation. Come back and show you the way Do you think these little devils really believe us? They are taking advantage of us. Wait until we finish using it Who knows, we might all be killed one day. Niu Ergou still has some conscience Brother, what shall we do now? You all listen to me Get into the woods. Walk slowly and don't shoot. Let's leave after they all leave. What's the sound inside? Listen to me, listen to all of it. I think I'm in the army There are eight roads Brothers, retreat quickly. withdraw Get out of here! Black Spot Walks This little devil, the regiment commander, can't be beaten They were all defeated in no time. The Japanese underestimated the situation here. That's why you walked into our ambush. The battle was fought so happily. This is weird. Why does it feel like there is no one in this village? What's so strange about this? The guerrillas here have extraordinary skills. If you don't know the terrain here Once the war begins For us, that's bad news. Now we go into the village Could he have been ambushed? Collect weapons and clean up the battlefield yes Collect weapons and clean up the battlefield Go into the village later good Stop! Stop! Who is so arrogant? Bastard It's you, Taijun. Give me Don't be too proud, this is my donkey. Your donkey, you tricked me into the encirclement I'll let you know today how you died. No, no, no, don't shoot, don't shoot Don't, don't, don't shoot. Don't shoot. asshole money No, no, no You don't need to pay, just ride away. You don't need to pay, just ride away. My Money Understand Understand What Blackie waiting for me I'll come to rescue you in a moment. stop Come down asshole You don't know who I am? It's Akino-kun Get out of the way Captain Bastard yes Do you still look like a soldier of the Empire? yes As a soldier of the Empire Leading a broken donkey back Do you understand the word dignity? Akino-kun, death and honor coexist As a warrior of the empire You must be brave Dare to face death Sorry, Captain I am willing to die as an apology Soldiers should die on the battlefield yes I hope you can respect yourself and there won't be a next time clear It's dangerous to keep these explosives here. Put it somewhere safe yes quick , Is Taijun rushing? go ahead Prepare for battle Get closer and fight again beat Save people quickly Head of Xin You are surrounded Surrender now The Imperial Army has a great reward Brothers of the National Army Stop resisting. Surrender now The Imperial Army will give you a lot of money to take home If you don't want to go home, join our Imperial Army Captain Xin, our Captain Sato I really want to make friends with you Bullshit Show me your dog head if you can. I shot you dead. A man of insight is a wise man Shoot me fire Come on, come on Rush away rush Head of Group The enemy's firepower is too strong, let's retreat fart Why are you retreating? Hold on! Capture Xin Zhiyuan alive Yes This is not okay, huh? Chen Dahu Where are the people? Bastard Brothers, who wants to leave, leave now There's still time Brothers who are not afraid of death, please leave it to me. Sacrifice one's life to save the country If you don't succeed, you'll die. yes Fight me back No more bullets. No more bullets. This won't work. Bayonet kill Charge and kill blind I'm here to save you. What's the meaning The devils are still there Drinking celebratory wine There's a hole in the back From there you can go to the back mountain. What about you? I'm blind, it's ok blind Okay, okay, let's go. Come and go Come, I'll untie it for you. Are you okay? Please help me untie it quickly Going Around Come quickly Come come come Head of Lai Xin Captain, hurry up! quick Quick, quick, quick I have to go and stay here to die. Don't move, don't move, don't move Don't move, don't move, don't move Don't run, don't move. Captain Xin, where are you going? How come he is ours? Bastard Bastard Head of Xin Don't get excited Don't shoot. If you dare to shoot me None of the brothers behind you will survive The Imperial Army's guns are not vegetarian Tell you, Captain Xin You can't go anywhere now. The imperial army has surrounded this place tightly. screw you Head of Xin I'll ask you again You say it or not You ask this question Is it still interesting? good Then I will take your people Kill them all Heavy Prepare Brothers, are you afraid of death? Not afraid Don't be afraid Not afraid, not afraid, not afraid Good brothers What is the slogan of our New Second Steel Regiment? Kill the devils to protect our homeland Kill the devils to protect our homeland Kill the devils to protect our homeland Brothers Although we don't have guns now But we have souls Have backbone Have your own fist Head of Xin New Second Group arrive Fight with the devils Shooting fight Shaobing Money is expensive Captain Xin, you still don't say anything Bastard stop Keep him My brother New Second Group arrive Xin Zhiyuan Don't test my patience. Do you say it or not? well I said come over Come here Captain Son of a bitch My son of a bitch beat Kill me Kill me Punishment Oops Good good good Good good good You guys follow me. Catch them now You two here Go quickly Keep an eye on them Bastard The whole city is under martial law and the city gates are closed No one is allowed in or out yes You guys go quickly. yes Bastard Don't worry, Taijun They can't run away. Take him in for me. yes Are you ready? Everyone must be careful We will meet at the back door after the mission is completed. Yes, yes, yes Remember The torture chamber is the third room on the right on the second floor. Good to know You guys put on another good show. Lay down your weapons Don't try any tricks. We are surrounded Surrender your guns and you will not be killed You guys put on another good show. Lay down your weapons Don't try any tricks. We are surrounded Surrender your guns and you will not be killed Quick retreat Chase me yes Finally appeared Is it safe here? Safety The most dangerous place is the safest place Catch them fast Don't let them get away. Go. Search carefully for me There's a secret room here. Do Japanese people know this place? Know But they would never imagine We'll hide here. I hope so. Go and bring Xin Zhiyuan and the others to me. yes Go inside Stand still Xin Zhiyuan, what is this? Whose is it? Who uses it? Can I tell you Stop wasting time good Captain Xin said it very well Bastard I'll let you try it too What does this taste like? Can you hear anything? Can't hear clearly Chief Sun I'd like to see How hard are your bones? Pull out Beat them until they tell the truth yes Walk out Interrogate them both separately yes etc. Oh no, they found out. Chase me Xie Yang, are you okay? fine let's go Captain Sun Captain Xin has already recruited If you don't recruit again You won't have to speak anymore. You should have said it earlier. Early words You don't have to endure so much trouble. Yes or no Go inside Are you sure it's here? It seems to be behind the wall Report to the Captain Explosives were found inside How many places are there to hide explosives? I don't know how many there are. I know there is a place The other places were taken by Captain Xin and his team. Mr. Sasato Look, I told you where the explosives are hidden. Just let me go. What are you in a hurry for? Put the other Find me where the explosives are hidden. I'll let you go right away. Ah what? What nonsense You've come to this point. You haven't been honest yet. Taijun, he will definitely explain. Taijun What's on your hat? Bastard Go back soon The assassin was wounded Immediately search the whole city Search every pharmacy They will definitely go You are right, Taijun. Don't worry, Taijun He can't run away Can you shut up your crow mouth? Bastard Hurry up! Hurry up! hurry up hurry up Sato you bastard Kill my goat uncle I'll make you pay with your life today. Concentrate fire directly ahead fire The enemy's firepower is too strong We can't hold on any longer. I have to hold on even if I can't. I have to avenge my uncle. Big goat uncle, we will avenge you I will kill Sato even if I die. The Japs Concentrate fire to block the left front yes The little Japanese will let you taste my grenade go You die quick I'm out of bullets. I don't have much here. Money is expensive and I have no bullets beat Quickly adjust the muzzle and fire at Sato good What happened next? Lieutenant Commander Lie Down Money is expensive, look over there It's your own team It's Zhang Ranran Report to the Major: The reinforcements from the Eighth Route Army Attacked our artillery positions and reserves The bastards ordered a retreat yes Withdrawal Give me a rush Go, go, go rush Go! Go fast! Go! Shaobing Shaobing It's ok, sister. Are you okay? Fortunately you arrived in time Otherwise, we will all die. Thank you for your hard work. Is everyone okay? It's okay. It's okay. My head is bleeding Let me see It's ok, minor injury Check the guns and ammunition. yes What about Sato? I just ran in that direction. Hurry up and chase him. We must not let him get away this time. Chase Going Around Walk Kill him Sato Ina Sato Ina stop Stop! Stop! Don't let that bastard Sato get away Don't run Captain How about it Sato-kun is crazy I think this battle is over. He won't let you go. Wait till this war is over His life has come to an end. Captain, please speak frankly Haven't you always liked Sato-kun? Nonsense in the face of imperial interests He actually chose love This love This love He has lost his military instincts. How could I possibly like this kind of person? There is an old Chinese saying If you don't make a decision, you will suffer the consequences. Subordinates understand What's going on? Captain, are you okay? Captain What's going on? No, no, Captain. We were surrounded by the Eighth Route Army Bastard Money is expensive Sato is missing Gone Look carefully for Will he pretend to be dead? Go over there and take a look Everyone search separately yes Be careful Come here Sato stood up You bastard, I'll shoot you. Second sister, wait Let's see if he is really dead or just pretending to be dead. Don't move I'll kill you Shaobing blind All are here I didn't expect that we would meet again in this way. More people win over fewer This is you Chinese soldiers You are about to die and you are still talking so much nonsense. I'll let you see it today What is a real Chinese soldier? bring it on At the same time The main force of the Eighth Route Army The little devils led by Hanako A life-and-death battle also unfolded Under the powerful artillery attack of the Japanese The Eighth Route Army could not break through the The situation is critical Hanako seems to see the dawn of victory Did Ono send the message? I sent it but the reinforcements are stuck on the road. These bastards How long can our ammunition last? It can only last half a day at most. Hurry up! Hurry up! Notify the reinforcements Rushing to the headquarters yes Money is expensive Shaobing, stop Shaobing, stop Get out of the way, biscuits stand up stand up Sato, aren't you a Japanese soldier? Then you're like a soldier. Stand up for me Hideshige Hideshige You go quickly Big Second sister Old village chief Bastard Uncle Goat Xiuzhi Village Chief Big goat uncle The villagers whose money houses were killed by the Japanese I avenged you. That damn Sato is lying right in front of us Did you see it? Your souls in heaven may rest in peace. Shaobing Don't cry. Now is not the time to cry. Sato died And Hanako and so many little devils Not kicked out Let's go down the mountain and fight the devils. Let's go fight the devils Go fight the devils. Go fight the devils. Walk Walk Go, go, go The Eighth Route Army is very cunning You must be more careful Increased firepower It is to increase firepower Yes Yes how's it going No, the enemy's firepower is too strong. Can't it just explode? The enemy cannot be blown up by crossfire We organized several attacks but all failed. Many comrades died. No, we can't keep fighting like this. Give me the grenade. What do you want grenades for? Give it to me quickly It's a grenade. What do you want to do if the money is expensive? I'm going to blow them up. No, it's too dangerous for you to go alone. Don't worry about it, cover me Then you be careful Money is expensive, I will help you Shaobing's enemy is crossfire We have to take down a machine gun. I'll rush over in a moment. You kill the machine gunner with a grenade. We have a limited number of grenades. Look carefully before throwing If you can't kill him Then I'm done. Do you understand? clear Throwing sesame cake Comrades, rush Captain Ono, don't worry about the outside world for now. The Eighth Route Army has already attacked Captain, let's break out! Breakout is now everywhere with the main force of the Eighth Route Army Ono, we can't leave. Now is the time for you and me to serve the Emperor. You won't be afraid, will you? Pledge allegiance to the Emperor Comrades, Money is expensive Money is expensive. Are you okay? Are you injured? It's okay. I won't die. If I have to die, I'll be the devil. How about others fine I'm fine. Everyone, please pay attention. Now the situation is reversed. We must seize the opportunity to win We must not let Hanako, that bitch, go Everyone search separately Second sister leaves Go Go Go Don't let Hanako run away Shoot me, shoot me to death Come on Qian Sang, your death is coming. Money is expensive Are you okay? It's okay, I won't die, it's more important to find Hanako Everyone, go find your gun and give it to me. Be careful Hanako Let him go Don't mind me shooting. If you don't care about his life or death Just shoot. Hanako, you are about to die. Put the gun down now You put money on the table We'll give you a way out. Let him go Xie Yang, don't worry, I'll shoot her to death When I get to a safe place I will let him go of course Let's go Bullshit, I'm not going anywhere If you have the guts, shoot me to death. All of you, step back. Otherwise I'll kill him now. quick Come Comrades, hurry up and clean up the battlefield Checking the wounded See if there are any survivors. etc. Stop following me. I warn you if you go any further I'm not being polite to you. Put down your money now lay down Hanako, you put the money away. I'll be your hostage You don't understand what I say, right? Everyone, don't move. You can't escape from here. Put the money away quickly lay down Stop giving me the crap. I'm warning you one last time. If you follow me further Don't ever think of seeing this person again. Walk Don't move Everyone dispersed and followed her Don't let her find an opportunity to attack you. Walk The leader just got the news Comrade Qian Gui was held hostage by the Japanese What is where I don't know if Comrade Zhang Ranran is also looking for him. We must find Comrade Qian Gui as soon as possible. yes Comrades, follow my orders. Go all out to rescue people Strive to annihilate all the devils yes Fast Chase There are devils chasing us Chase Chase Chase quickly Stop! Stop! Stop, stop, chase quick Don't run stop stop stop stop Don't run stop stop stop stop Money is expensive Don't come over here, Shaobing Shaobing Don't come over Shaobing Money is expensive Shaobing Second sister Second sister Shaobing Sister, don't come here. Sister, don't move. Money is expensive Second sister Second sister Second sister Second sister Shaobing Shaobing Son of a bitch Everyone, don't move. Don't come over here, don't bother me. Ran Ran, don't bother me Let's kill her together. Money is expensive Hanako you stinky bitch Give grandpa a good time You stinky bitch What's the point of hiding a man? Come out and challenge me if you can. Hanako, please kill Grandpa Qiangui. Did Ranran find Hanako? No This is not the way Money is expensive and will bleed to death Anyone who goes out now will die. Ran Ran, are you ready? I'm going to attract Hanako's attention. No, I can't let you die. You take the gun and let me attract Hanako. As soon as she shows up, you kill her. Just listen to me once. You shoot better than me and know more than me This country needs you. Money is expensive and needs you even more. Xie Yang Aren't you trying to save Qian Gui? Come over if you have the guts. Please take good care of Qiangui for me Xie Yang Xie Yang Xie Yang, don't don't want Xie Yang Hanako, your death is coming.