[music] [music] Get out of here! Get out! Get out! Go... Almost no one knows that the two main Siberian rivers Ob and Yenisei are connected by a canal built at the end of the 19th century. In the remote taiga of the Tomsk region. - You completely see, human hands have done the impossible - they connected two river basins. Manually digging a canal across the watershed. Larch locks raised the level to the level necessary for the passage of ships. And pilots and other workers of this complex hydraulic structure settled in the built settlements . 100 years have passed and the taiga hid the canal and its secrets. Is it possible to get from the Ob to the Yenisei by water? Are the locks still standing? And who lives on its deserted shores in the depths of the Siberian taiga? We decide to answer all these questions and go through it on wooden traditional boats. Which are still used in Siberia. In the last episode, we started a many hundred kilometer journey from the Ob and reached the watershed lake on the border of the Tomsk region. Where the water began to run in the opposite direction. [music] [music] [music] - Who's there? For several days we climbed up a river that disappeared into the taiga thickets. It seemed that we might lose the channel and remain in a flooded forest. Surprisingly, after the watershed lake, we found ourselves in an absolutely straight channel dug by hand. And it became the gateway to another world. Wooden houses, bridges, and haystacks appeared from the parted taiga . We found ourselves in the land of the Old Believers. [music] Have you heard anything about the hut on chicken legs? Fairy tale where Baba Yaga lives? Many will think that they just came up with it for some reason. It's not clear why? Actually, it's true. Houses on legs exist. Look... This one... Or even more similar to Baba Yaga's hut. On each pillar on which the frame stands, there is a sheet of iron. And the mouse will not be able to get inside here. Therefore, these are barns or storage sheds in Siberian style for storing all kinds of products. Anything: skins, flour, sugar - any... And due to the fact that they are raised above the ground, they are absolutely dry. Blown through with air, such gaps are made everywhere with a reserve. In the shade, in the dark. Therefore, they are stored indefinitely. There are a huge number of boats here, which is a sign that there is a huge lake nearby where fish are caught. And apparently all the villages are on Kas. Fishermen come here during certain seasons to fish. There are such boats... How many are there? Six pieces. Seventh... There are wooden dugouts, oblaskas. From here they continued on motorcycles along the dam, which was formed from a dug canal, they stored the earth and it turned out to be a dam. There is a path to the lake. And then, they already go out on their canoes and hunt. A very beautiful place. At first glance it seems like an ordinary village. But no. The houses and barns were all made, not just scattered around. Because it's kind of a mess. And everyone has their own purpose. Everyone has their own goal. Similar to the northern villages of the Pomors in the Arkhangelsk region somewhere. It seems like an ordinary rustic barn, but look at the care in the details. The wooden boat is just perfect. Apparently this is the owner's. Not this soulless piece of iron made of aluminum, but rather assembled from pine planks. Or a drain made of wood, hollowed out. Forged, antique nails from canal times. And a roof covered with planks. Just think, we are wandering around here without the owner, in fact, Pyotr Fomich told us, he even told us where the key to the house was. But we won't spend the night, because we have tents and there's no point in it. Just say it anyway: I wonder what's inside? This is a barn for livestock. Do you know why the cloud lies here? Because the pieces of iron are in the sun, they won't care, but the clouds will crack in the sun. That's why he lies here, in the dark and cool. You can't even imagine the smell of hay here. Warm, dry and smells very tasty. - Then I'll put up a tent here... - Why? - Softly... - Like, for fun? - It's soft, it smells... Yes, you can do it without a tent, I'll tell you. I laid out the rug and that's it. Motor. - I did this? - Subscribers. The guys from Novosib, who contacted us many times, said: when are you going? And it so happened that we went together. Practically, together. We haven't seen them yet. We only saw cars near the bridge. Now they are trying to break through the shoal. After the lock and the fast current, a very shallow, sandy place was formed. If they swam there at idle, as if they had descended, then they need to accelerate back to overcome the current. Well, that's it, sit down. Perhaps the water dropped during these 2-3 days. - There's some kind of cowboy hat... - Well... well... well... On style... on style. - Fashionable. [music] [music] [music] - Thermirra Premium man. Color black. - In short, we bought ourselves new thermal underwear and decided to test it... - Thermal underwear from Ira. And it's called &quot;Thermirra&quot;. - In general, it looks like this on me. But the fleece is very nice. Now let's look at Karase. - What do you mean, it will look very unpleasant? This incredibly beautiful little place just won't let us go. It was late afternoon, and especially since there was a meeting with like-minded people. Without saying a word, we decide to stay overnight. Spending time talking. In general, today we are spending the night like grooms, right? We decided to sleep in the hayloft today. - Urga! Urga, home! -Come in! Come on! Come here! Blind dog... - Good morning. Cat, when was the last time you spent the night in the hayloft? - Let me think... I probably haven't spent the night in the hayloft even once. - In general, it's good to spend the night in the hayloft. Dry, warm, soft. Let's ask Karas? Crucian carp! Crucian carp! When was the last time you spent the night in the hayloft? - A? - When was the last time you spent the night in the hayloft? - Probably around 12 years old. - So, this happened to you? - Yes... - This is not your first experience? - I also had it with my wife in the hayloft. But this is not an overnight stay, but so... - This is not on camera, right? - Then everything itched. Urga! Didn't you recognize it? Not really. Everything is great. Stupid! Guys, we've crossed the divide. We are in the Krasnoyarsk region. People live here. Kazantsevsky, Nalimka, Bezymyanka, Aleksandrovsky lock. These are villages where hundreds of people live. Maybe even thousands. Remember what we told you? In one year , I think 15 children were born in Bezymyanka. - 18... -18 children, yes. Villages are not just living out their days, but are quite developing. There is life on the Ob-Yenisei Canal in the Krasnoyarsk Territory . For myself, by the way, I can't even understand. What is the difference? Why in Tomsk, did all this in the Tomsk part die out? And there is only the nearest village of Kataiga. And they only deal with the forest. And here, as you can see, they cut hay and raise cattle. You know the answer. Old Believers live here. Chapel Old Believers. They have a completely different opinion about distance from cities, from roads, from civilization. Maybe this is for the better? If it weren't for them, there would also be overgrown fields here and such, a kind of despondency. Here, everything is different. Well, there is a lot of interesting things ahead. Huge collapse of the Maryina Griva lock. This worries me as a little girl. And the huge village of Bezymyanka. We spent the night with Pyotr Fomich. Thanks to him for this... I think he won't be upset if he finds out that we slept in his hayloft. - I'm looking at these boards. Look... These are not sawn, they look like they were cut with an axe, here are chips... - No, they were chipped. - Chipped off? Is it like they took an ax and stabbed? - Yes. They took special shit and knock, knock. - Oh, did they score? - Yes. - Why are you saying the word x...? - Apparently, this nail... I don't think it was the Old Believers who drove in this forged nail, right? - Why? They could disassemble spare parts from the channel. And drive it in, or what? - Why not? You can screw it in with bolts or threaded connections. - Also a hayloft... - Damn, I should have slept here, it's more fun here. Today we need to dress warmer... Thermushki, that's all. - I have. I bought a new one, look. [music] - Wow! [music] [music] - What, everyone has to do a pole then? - Then we will push off as... as before, in general. Let's go as before without pampering with all this motor stuff. - Wow! There's depth there! - Wow! - I can't turn. At low speed, at low speed, it doesn't turn. The &quot;ass&quot; rises at idle. And he practically doesn't steer. - 4 meters, probably, the depth here. - There was a bridge. - Just hold on... - Let go! [music] The canal is very narrow and overgrown. There are no gates at the locks, but the drop in water is noticeable. At the Maryina Griva lock in summer you can practically see a waterfall. Now there is only a noticeable slope. The peculiarity of our boat is that at low speed it is practically uncontrollable. You have to go down the fast current at medium, or even full throttle. Risking crashing into a tree or bank. [music] Suddenly there was a gateway. I didn't look at the map, I thought there was still a long way to go. And in general, there was no time to think. - We flew by! - They just jumped off the spillway. Let's go now and take a closer look at how it all happened. - What, we haven't reached Casa yet? - A? - We passed it! - We are already walking along Kas. - Just 2 years ago the hut was more or less like this. You come in - a room. But 2 years have passed. When the roof becomes leaky, the beams simply rot instantly. They are covered with earth. The earth gets wet and there is such rotting. - They broke some powerful logs. - So, a house under a roof can stand for centuries. But unless she's lost weight. And then it will turn out like in the Police Department in Narym. Maryina Griva, I won't repeat it. I told you everything in the last film. So, take a look. But this is exactly the place where, according to some rumors, the partisans attacked a Red Army or White Guard detachment and defeated them all. In general, the whole channel is full of stories. - What is this strange design and why is it needed? - This is Eastcode. - Pedestrian bridge? - a suspension bridge like Nepal. - There seem to be a lot of pedestrians here in order for it to be built? - Yes... - Firstly, here the points are evenly spaced from it. Do you see? In general, these things are... as far as I understand, in order to measure the river level. Casa level. And on a canal, as you understand, it is very important to know what water flow rates are in order to know how to open and close the sluice for how long. That is, the volume of water flowing through the river. You need to know how long it will take to fill, for example, a sluice. You know the flow rate, so today you open the airlock and keep it closed for, say, 2 hours. Or open. This information was necessary for the gateway to work. - No, the USSR collapsed... - Look! Look! The same... - It turns out that you reach the middle and measure in the center, yes. - Again, you need to know the depth of the channel? Suddenly washed out? Chick - tried it on. Yeah... You don't need a boat for this mess. - Well, yes. - They just decided to restore it. This apparently existed. There was a bridge in this water gauge and the depths were measured. They have now simply decided to completely restore it. This makes me very happy! Well done! - It's such a historical site... - Yes, yes.... Now still... for some reason there is no sign. - No, it's clear that these are very old things. - Well, yes... - No, he was. It was just that his condition was apparently more depressing. There are locks on all the locks now. Or even small villages with new houses and children. We are at the Nalimny lock. - Hello! - Hello! It is famous for the local resident Kulibin, who built a water power plant and is building ships that can even sail along the Yenisei and the shallow Kas in summer. - How far is it from Bezymyanka? Not enough at all, right? - Here 7 and there 7. - Oh, 7... 14... And to the mouth of the Kas? - 50 - To the mouth of Kas? - Oh, to the mouth, 250 - 250, right? And then by water, right? - Yes. - Now it's smaller, there are two ice holes, three... We counted - 250. - And this is your famous one... what's his name? - Hydroelectric power station, or what? - Well... - No, that's not the hydroelectric power station, we have the hydroelectric power station there. - Further? - Certainly. - A! Boat! - That's it... - Has anyone done something like this and even walked? - He didn't go! - Didn't you? - He drowned that... - Drowned? - This is the second time he has done this. - A... - Why did you drown? - I don't know, I drowned and that's all. - And they didn't pick it up? - No! - And the hydroelectric power station is right there... - Which is the big one? - Hydroelectric power station? Will you show me? - Certainly! [music] - Yeah... Yeah... Nothing like that... - This was instead of iron. It's rotten. - Yeah... - While they were repairing it, they gave us a station. Bezymyanskaya... - Ah! They gave the light, right? - This... - I understand everything, I understand. - I didn't ask, but what's your name? - Dionysius. - Dionysius? - Denis - Deonisy? - Right... - And your last name? Or are you not allowed to tell? - Do you have light here now? - What? - Do you have light here now? - Light? - Well... - So, we have... at 8 o'clock or at 9 pm. - A! Well, well... They give it in Bezymyanka, right? - But in Bezymyanka it's not 24 hours a day. - I know... That's it, let's go. - In general, you can still bet. - So you can... you can serve it. - Will there be electricity? - She worked for us. - Class! - There was only a small generator here. At first the village was small, it was enough for us. Then the village grew and there wasn't enough. There was no other generator yet. Then they stay in the village. - Then they leave? - No. - Are they still under construction? - I recently got married. Nonche got married to his brother. - Maybe this one will be restored now? Will anyone go to live on Maryina Griva? No, no one wants to? Do not want? - Everyone has already left from there. - I look at some boards there, they brought them. Maybe they were going to fix something? - Cover the roofs. They are cutting hay there. - A! So that it doesn't fall apart, right? - Well... They're mowing the hay. Well, shall we go to Bezymyanka? [music] On the approach to Bezymyanka, the capital of local villages, you can see what Old Believer villages looked like in the taiga in the past. The river here has practically no floodplain, so everything is occupied by dark coniferous taiga. And in order for pastures or arable land to appear, it is necessary to cut down the forest, uproot the stumps and plow the land, preventing further overgrowth. This gigantic manual labor would seem to limit the number of inhabitants. However, Nameless is growing. It's amazing to see people putting so much effort into wanting to live where they want to live. [music] We turned from Kas into a small river. And soon we arrived in this village. Along the way, it was noticeable that a lot of people live here. They continue to uproot the forest, burn it, plow it up to create green lawns like this. Can you imagine how labor-intensive this is? And in general, is it possible to see this somewhere now? I don't even know. It's unlikely... Well, judging by these boats, you probably guessed that we are in the capital of the Old Believers, Kas, in Bezymyanka. All kinds of boats from different craftsmen differ from each other: the stern is narrowed, wide, long, narrow, oblique. Now we'll go find Pyotr Fomich. And let's try to refuel. Then we'll go to the store. - Do you have to go through the entire village to get to the base? - A? - Do you have to go through the whole village to the base? - Speed bumps to prevent people from driving while the road is being repaired. - What is this? A? It will be on the right now. And what is it? Why are they posting it? - So that it doesn't fall through here. There were no ruts. - ABOUT! What's this? A store, perhaps? Shop. When we were at the Pallas's cat camp, campaign tickets hung here. - I remember, I remember... - Yes. The ruin was terrible. They put it on stilts. Pyotr Fomich Zebzeev is a native of these places. As he himself says, his parents are from the Parabelsky district of the Tomsk region. He took on the responsibilities of the head of the settlement. And through his efforts, a small village turned into a large village. Where the helicopter flies and fuel is delivered along the winter road. That is why fellow believers flocked here. And the village of Bezymyanka had a big problem. Settlers occupied all permitted land. According to the cadastral plan, bureaucratic delays do not allow increasing the area of a settlement, even in the taiga. - I'm speaking more and more clearly. At the top there is absolutely no idea. Sometimes you say that this is not so, it is fundamentally not so. Wrong. Some girl is sitting there, trying to teach you. - Yes, yes, yes... - I tell her: "Girl, do you understand? What difference does it make to you? The main thing is that people live." - I must also issue a certificate, right? - Official request, yes. Old Believers. What's the difference? For what? What? Will something change? Be glad that people live. They don't leave. Children are born. There is growth. Every year there is an increase of up to 10 people. They did not distract Pyotr Fomich. Space fire monitoring reported a hot spot on its territory. Now we need to find out what it is? Has spring fallen, or has a herd of cows gathered to drink? So we refuel and take a tour of the village. And we move on. Our goal is to find a craftsman who will make us a wooden boat for our new trips. - Well? We probably won't.... - Abuse hospitality? - On the other hand, the Internet. It would be possible to respond to comments from subscribers. And then they released a new film, but they didn't answer at all... - I read a little. They write good comments. Thank you. We'll come and answer everyone. [music] [music] After asking all the local residents, I understand. We are advised by the same master Alexander Alekseev from Potaninsky. This is very close to Bezymyanka, so we immediately hit the road. - There was no metal. - Will it go? - Yes Yes. Go. - I say, we moved on wooden roads. But this one is not quite ready yet. It turns out that Bezymyanka is now completely cut off. - We just passed the bridge. We drove along it on all-terrain vehicles 2 years ago. Look, now it's no longer a wooden pontoon bridge, but a normal, iron one. Not finished yet, but still... Just imagine. Normal bridges are being built into one Old Believer village . Now the village is cut off. The helicopter flies once a week. The products are almost all gone. At least the ones we needed. There are none. Therefore, they wait for a ride to arrive. Hitchhikers are private traders. It's unknown when it will come. So, if we wanted to get out of here now, we would have to wait a week for the helicopter. And it's not a fact that there would be places. Or like us, on our own. I can't help but tell you about the problem that Pyotr Fomich shared. Two years ago we were there, I told you that there were a lot of new residents in Bezymyanka. 10 people, 15 new ones are born per year. They get married. The village is growing very quickly. And now there is not enough space to build houses. The settlement's land has run out. And now we have to either seize forest lands. Or, don't go to live in the village. Or to a new place. Although, no one wants to do this. Basically, because of nonsense. A huge amount of land. You just need to transfer it from the forest fund to the land of a populated area. And Pyotr Fomich has been dealing with this bureaucratic problem for two years now. They can't do anything. Some girls call back and ask: What is your religion? How many men? How many women? And so on... God would be with him if it helped. But, nevertheless, the problem has been in the same place for 2 years now. Not resolved. If someone suddenly looks... Know that there is such a problem and officials cannot solve it without some kind of main signature. - Perhaps in five handshakes it will work out. Helicopter. And one more problem, but this is already such a hot one. When we came to Pyotr Fomich, he was sitting in his office and talking to someone. He was informed from the satellite that there was a point of high temperature somewhere on his territory. It turned out that there was a fire. A village to which there is no road at all. There's a fire near her... About a kilometer and a half away, or something... And the helicopter, that's it, flew out with the firefighters to see what was happening there. Extinguish and so on... there is a strong wind and the fire seems to be moving towards the populated area. Therefore, we did not abuse our hospitality here . Moreover, there are a lot of things to do and problems. And the guys are also building roads today. It turns out that they need to finish the bridge. And in the village everything thawed, the clay fell through. So they drive, they make roads. Life is simply in full swing. It would seem like a village that no one would need. Some Kataiga, Stepanovka, Central. There are also a bunch of villages, Berezovka on Paidug. No one needs it. No one even wants to live there and the houses are abandoned. Here the situation is the opposite. But the bureaucracy also puts a spoke in the wheels. Let's go! [music] [music] - Pyotr Fomich Zebzeev said that here, on Potaninsky, there is some grandfather who makes wooden boats. - Oh, yes. Its my father. - Yes? - Yes. You're walking around like that... [music] [music] - It's cold! - We have to! He dropped the phone from his pocket. - A! Got it? - No! - Fir-trees... Deep? Please tell me, were you in Bezymyanka? Pyotr Fomich says someone makes wooden boats here... - My dad makes them for me. - How can I talk to him? - He will come now, later. - He'll come, right? - Well... - So... Then we will now camp on the shore, on a boat. - Right here on the shore? - Then will you tell me when he comes? - Then all. Let's go. We'll come back later then. - Why don't you drive wooden ones yourself? - We only make big ones. - Oh, big ones? - For 8 kg. the smallest. - Which is the biggest? - There are 15, five tonka. - Wow! I need 15. - What's your name? - Lenya. - Then, Lenya, will you come and call us? That's it, come on then. Thank you! I am very glad. "I'm afraid of something," a person talks like this. What kind of boats does it make? Five-tonnkas... This guy here, blouse: We only build big ones. Ships. - Listen, this reminds me of some kind of Peter Pan country. - Simply fabulous. - Streams, boards everywhere, bridges, rivers all around. - Home by boat, across the entire channel. [music] - They suggested that I contact you. - Alexander. - Alexey... We need a wooden boat. There... how can I come to an agreement with you? - By next year. We need to prepare the lumber. It needs to dry. We need to find cedar and all that stuff... Maybe we also need some documents for cedar or something else... This is a hassle, oh-oh-oh! - How much will this cost? - Oh, I don't know... Well, I did 9 meters by 8, 4 years ago. 30,000 Well, I don't even know 15 now. I'm just not ready to even say it yet. You just have to think about it. - Can you just show me the boat? I'll come over tomorrow then. - Come over. - I'll come tomorrow morning. - Well... - You'll be here, right? - Well, that's it. Fine. - What time? By eight or later? By ten? - Yes. By ten. - OK. - We also have a 10-meter boat, but they make it in Abakan. Others are small. It turns out... it's called a &quot;whaleboat&quot;. They do this for large engines. They have mountain rivers there. - You can put any motor there too. And the 40th and 50th, if you wish... You can install any engine. Carry cargo. They bring everything in by car, there is no longer any need. Previously, people climbed this same Kas on poles. - Yes Yes. Five-ton boats are big boats. Let's say two or three people load it and push it with a pole . And now everything is so perfect... there is no need. Each master does it in his own way. Every fool goes crazy in his own way. So it is here. Just like my father taught me. The father is gone, what remains of the father. And I, how should I say, the Gorevka River... You probably haven't heard. Do you know, or have you heard, that on the Yenisei there is a river higher than Shadrin, Gorevka? With such stern you won't be able to climb this river. What exactly will it pull more water behind it than... I have food, how can I say? I only leave this much below. - Sure sure. I understand. And already we nail the boards to the stern. My boards are wrong. My boards are coming, they are all bent. Well, tomorrow I will explain to you. Look. - All. All. I have both bow and stern. Only the nose turns out to be narrow, like a black man's. So he's almost there, like a water cutter. And the stern at the top is like this, at the bottom I have it just like this. Does it differently somehow... every person. Perhaps this day is the most important on our trip. We found a master who makes boats. Almost in the capital of the Old Believers, Kasa. And it looks like we have an idea for a new trip. A 15-meter boat in the center of the Siberian taiga. I hope it will be waiting for us next spring. Our regular viewers, who watch our films very carefully, may ask us: Why did you go to the Ob-Yenisei Canal again? Have you already been there on all-terrain vehicles and in winter on snowmobiles? I answer. The canal was built so that boats could travel this route. That's why we're here again. But this is not our only goal. I heard that on the Ob-Yenisei Canal, at one of the locks, there is a master who builds traditional wooden boats. Moreover, not some small oblasts, but huge 15-meter ships. And these ships are very similar, I think they are. These boats are made according to the same ancient traditions of Russian pioneers. The so-called planks. On which, literally in 100 years, the whole of Siberia was covered. From the Urals to the Pacific Ocean. And so, we came up with an idea. We will build it, with the help of our craftsmen and with the help of you, planner. And we can go part of this way. To the place where we plan to build the tower of the Ket fort. This plank, this boat, will complement such an exhibition. Open-air museum. Already in the spring of next year, I hope, the boat will be built and waiting for us on the canal. We will get there on May 15th. Let's go through the channels. Let's walk along Keti. And we will come to the place where the Ket fort stood. Therefore, anyone who is interested in this idea and who wants to support us can go with us. To do this, you need to write your address on VKontakte or a message that you want to get there with us. The second option is that you can support us at boosty. Subscribe to the channel. And the easiest option is to simply like our video and forward it to your friends. - I put on a fleece and it's immediately warm, right? - Yes. Great. - &quot;Thermirra&quot; warms. - Good day already. - Good afternoon! Are you probably tired of waiting already? - Not really. - Anyway, I do it every once in a while. Well, then... It's been a while since I made a three-ton boat for Nazimov's men. - In general, there is a lot here on Kas, who does it? - No. That's what my father did, and that's what I'm doing now. There was a guy in Bezymyanka, he did it. But he did it a little differently. He is already old now. - Is this Peter Fomich's father-in-law? - Yes. Yes. Yes. - Oh well. I talked to him. He says: he's already done. He's already old. - Yes Yes. - And he won't take it. - This is what production is like. - How many meters is this? - 8 meters. This is with a wide stern. In general, I do. I don't do many of these. These are the first ones I make. My father made Sergei. - So where does this one come from, how to say? It turns out that my father is from Tomsk. And he made these boats there, in Tomsk? - No no. -Where did he learn? - He learned how to do it in Tuva. He lives in Tuva. - A! Got it. For mountain rivers, right? - Yes. For mountain rivers, for use. So, everything goes back and forth. You can make it, say, 15 m - length. You can make it 1.30 width. You can make it 1.15 width. You can do 1.40. - It's 1.30, right? - No. This is not a meter. It will be somewhere around 1.18 probably. In general, we'll probably have enough. We need to go through the canal. It will be difficult if it is very wide. Weight... we won't carry five tons in it. He may do it, but we won't. Well, under the engine, under the usual one. For a regular engine. Then will we leave you an advance payment or what? So that they understand that we are serious. How about that? If I made a boat for this guy 8 years ago. Now, of course, prices. You yourself know, - Of course... - They rose many times. Consider it half done. - Let's agree. - Because these are two cedars. We need to cut them down. We need to hire a ribbon. Nails, tar. - Don't even explain. And the roots... If we say, put the roots a meter apart. At 15 meters you need to almost dig up 15 roots. We need to cut them down and clean them. Now let's start doing it. This is a 15 m beam. I need to make a completely new beam, hew it out. Nail to the bottom. In order to pound it later, you need to hew it out so that it is no wider. There is a lot of work, to say the least. It turns out that the nose will be more raised, so that it is straight higher. Do it, right? - No problem. I'll do it. Of course I will. Let's turn it over, shall we? Look how she will lie. In a lying position. Misha, take it there. - Let's. - What is there, there's nothing there? No stick? - No. The logs are lying. - For yourself, right? - This is for myself. - Here are the sawn roots... Well, how? - Yes. I understand. - I'm in the summer, there will be damage. I need to find cedars. Now it's a young month, I need to find cedars. Prepare them. As they say, get out. Sand or even saw straight away. Find a sawmill. Take them out somewhere to saw them. And stack the lumber to dry. - Fine. - And for that matter, in the spring I'm for her... I'll just clear the snow a little, so that it's early. - Is your last name Alekseev? - Alexander Leonidovich. - Alexander Leonidovich. All. I made an agreement with you. So, this is... - Okay, good. I will do everything. - We were told in Nalimka what they were doing in Bezymyanka. But they don't know that they don't do it anymore. And it seems like someone is doing it in Alexandrovsky. But also not exactly. - Nobody does it in Aleksandrovsk. - No Yes? - You can even stop by and ask. Nobody does. How many boats did we make there? - Yes? - Well... - Well, that's it... [music] [music] - How are the colors? Fine? - Yes. A yellow sweatshirt. - I dried these stockings and socks on the fire. One was burned accidentally. The wind carried it away and burned it. - What will you do? - Now I have these insoles. - We need to film this. - I've already gotten into one. I think it's very comfortable. Now I will walk as if on clouds. Cool! Now I'll put more oil on my right one. [music] Another guy lives not far from Potanin's place . By the way, his last name is Potanin. He told us to go see him. He will give us some bread. Because supplies are already running low. This is bread, right? - And when we came here, there was no one here, right? Was it abandoned? - Why? There were... There were people here. - We have been here for 23 years. The family moved from the Yenisei here to the remote taiga 30 years ago. On Potaninsky. They say faith is stronger here. Last year something bad happened and the house burned down. And this time the flood completely flooded the entire village. It's early spring now. The area is a mess. Parents are waiting for their children to build a new house. But even in this situation we are not allowed to leave empty-handed. Old Believers tend to be able to do everything. A jack of all trades. They are farmers, they are also woodcutters. They are mechanics, they are also hunters. They can do everything. This is, as I understand it, they have electricity here. Interesting... By the way, they made an adjustment for us. This is the golden root. Grandma dug it up. And he grows all sorts of herbs at his place. Lick onion, regular onion, wild onion. She shared her golden root with us. There are roots there, divide it among everyone. - Give it to me. - Certainly. - There's a Christmas tree over there. The branches are all down. - So it's completely dry. - No. They hug. - Yes. - And when it rains, they stand up straight. - That is, humidity rises before rain. It will be dry now. - I think that when the branches are below, it's dry. They cover the roots. And when they rise up, the water flows down the leaves there too. - Interesting. - That's what I think. - So, now the weather will be good? - Yes, sort of. It can't rain. Look at the striking difference from Tomsk and Krasnoyarsk. Here the water has already receded. But it was. It completely flooded all the houses that are basically in the forest. The difference I think is 3 m is easy to eat. Our winter is just half a month late. Here it turns out that the flood has subsided. It's almost low water here. The owner said that there was 15 cm above the floor in her house. They used to live on the Yenisei and say that thank God the flood is not like on the Yenisei. Does not carry ice, which breaks houses and demolishes them. The water just came quietly, rose and left. - So, they are used to this? This is not news to them. - At first we were scared, but now we've gotten used to it. Thank you! [music] We never cease to be amazed at the beauty of local villages located on the water. On both sides of the river. Not in a line of streets, as the townspeople are used to, but as the owner wanted. And just like hundreds of years ago for Russian pioneers, the road along which people travel to visit or go about their business. The Ob-Yenisei Canal ends at the Aleksandrovsky Lock . And the big Cas begins. Fast river, tributary of the Yenisei. We just passed this geometrically correct... I don't even know what to call it? Well, let's put it this way... - It's called a parallelepiped. - Tetrahedron. A hill, in the form of such a very regular geometric figure, which was washed away by the river. Everything would have been fine, but then this started to happen... I don't understand. Because, look. If it were ice from the river, it would be much lower. Winter low water is below. And if it were ice, it would be below. Accordingly, this is above a certain level. When there was a maximum, there was a flood. Or it's ice that flows out of the swamp, most likely. But we have already traveled many kilometers, I would say about half a thousand, this is the first time we have seen this. - Well, it's almost June already. The end of May. - No, okay June. We haven't seen anything like it. It would be nice if all the swamps were the same, but... Look at that... - Permafrost. - Here the snow is stuck to the ice. But there, it's really very interesting. It's like a piece of platform. "It's just that the peat on top plays the role of thermal insulation, and there's no place for permafrost to come from there." And the permafrost comes from the atmosphere. If it's frozen here, from here? It's strange, why in the form of such a layer? - For the first time, a Geographer cannot find an explanation? - No, not for the first time. In fact, often you look and cannot understand what it is? Then you figure it out and with the help of friends and commentators you find the truth. No, it's strange... It's a strange place. Very interesting. Here's one for you, here's two for you. If it were daylight, we would raise the copter to show you how everything is up there. But it will already be dark. Probably not worth it, right? It's not worth it... That's it. Go. By the way, we are approaching a new town. It's on Kas. Large village. Almost at dusk we approach a new town. A man is sitting on the shore. As it turned out, it was no coincidence. Waiting for us. Pyotr Fomich handed us over to Valery. This is our friend from a previous trip. - Are you really waiting for us? We stay with him for the night. - Accidentally. Get some air. Fomich said we left two days ago. - Fomich is in his repertoire. - What, did the fire go out? Didn't say anything? When did he call? Today? - Yes, he calls three times every day. Take away anything valuable, phones. Cameras, guns, if you have them. Throw everything else away, they won't take anything. Good morning to another day of our expedition. We are located in New Town. The new town is such a... Transport and logistics hub. on the Ob-Yenisei Canal. A helicopter flies here twice a week. They reach here by low water... The ships built by the Old Believers will continue to arrive here for another month. They deliver food further up the Kas. And it is no longer the Old Believers who live here, but, let's say, worldly people, as they call them. But, nevertheless, they interact very closely with each other. In the know about everything. Valery, who hospitably accommodated us here. He has his own little loan. He communicates with the Old Believers and is aware of all matters. Moreover, he organizes hunts, excursions, mushroom and berry picking. And in principle, if someone wants to visit this taiga. The Ob-Yenisei Canal can do this. I'll tell you how to do this later. In principle, that's all. It's our traditional departure time. Get up at 8, leave somewhere around 10. Therefore, we rush to the pier, on Valery's "Patrol". Our friend, who once again meets us here and helps us. We just passed by a family who shouted: "Hey! We are your subscribers!" So, it was worth taking a ride on all-terrain vehicles once. And the whole village became fans. R 1167 KY. &quot;Trial&quot;. The name of the ship is &quot;Test&quot;. But I think it's a test to ride it. Look at the booth. It sometimes plays the role of a sail. When a strong wind blows into it. - Landing vehicle. - Ramp. Some kind of equipment comes in... But it's narrow. Here, somehow, the water is turning. I understand that there is a man sitting below . It controls the water jet engine. And the captain is there in the control room, commanding him. He says what to do. Turn left, right. Move to gain, reset. - Listen... - So it's not easy at all... Look what it is. This is a trimaran. - OK. I wanted to say that you don't need a lot of strong education to cook something like this. Now I take my words back. I think there's a secret in the back, right? In front, more precisely... This is a ramp for a car to drive on. Whats up? Everything will work here. 2.5 meters. - Well, man! Wow! Can you imagine making a trimaran?! That is, he cuts the water. The wave hits him back, it lifts him, as it were, and he goes over the shallows, over these. - Listen, it seems to me that with such a machine you can take some kind of fortress on the water. Valery said that he would not go to them. They are racing. And they carry food, almost from Yeniseisk. And he has documents for this ship. And no questions arise. Such a handsome Cas. Very fast current. For me, as a resident of the Tomsk region, this is unusual. We're just heading downhill. And they say it will be even faster. The water level of the Yenisei is low, so Cas simply flies into it at wild speed. We'll get there quickly. Now, it seems, the river is big, but literally very soon it will become shallow. From here Cas really looks very beautiful. But along the way we witnessed a simple environmental disaster. From the confluence of the large and small Kas, all the way to the mouth. The right bank, and the left too. Mostly right. Just filled with dried out cedar forests. Moreover, so ripe. That is, large cedars. Just a huge amount. Hundreds of kilometers of taiga have dried up. And it dried up due to the fact that the Siberian silkworm ate the needles 5 years ago. Caterpillar. Another An-2 takes off from the airfield in the village of Aginskaya. There are a total of 12 aircraft in the air . They spray a chemical solution over the taiga, which is affected by a dangerous pest - the Siberian silkworm. Valery told us that this year there was so much of it that the harvester track was half full. Approximately the level of boots. Swarming with caterpillars. Which then hatched into moths. And there were just them... they generally covered the entire space. All the cedar has been eaten. They didn't touch the pine tree. Therefore, the pine forests remained. And cedar trees.... A huge number, literally up to the Yenisei. Insanely huge amount of forests. Moreover, in Soviet times they were not touched. Cedar trees were banned. Nobody cut them down. And they grew to such serious sizes. They are completely destroyed. You open the map, this entire space between the rivers of Kas and Yenisei is covered with such a red picture. This is Ivan-chai. After the fireweed, or after the silkworm, all the forests are covered with the grass Ivan-tea, which is as tall as a man. And the picture, of course, completely changes. These forests are lost forever. There's nothing you can do. The same story happened in the 50s in Tomsk, in the Teguldet district. The same thing happened in Losinoborsk. The timber industry enterprises simply packed up and left because there was nothing left to do. The only plus I can say is that a state farm for honey production has opened in Losinoborsk. Because all these spaces occupied by Ivan tea, this honey plant and bees were preparing honey in tons. And the collective farms took him to the city on boats. Why did this happen? Probably the foresters missed it. The outbreaks were local and small. And in Soviet times they were identified in a timely manner. And somehow, they stopped. The forest was either cut down or pollinated. When this happened, they missed it. They united into one huge hearth. And just the whole caterpillar ate it all. Just think, in Bezymyanka the forest is not given to those who want it. They do not transfer it to the lands of populated areas, supposedly out of concern for its preservation. And at the same time, there were simply millions of hectares of huge cedar forests. Apparently, some kind of balance had to be maintained. People are probably more important and huge forests are also more important. How can we make it so that minor officials make decisions on their own? And they insisted on this, and did not send it higher, higher and further. And in the end, it all just gets lost in the bureaucratic swamp and nothing happens. Forests are dying and land is not being converted to activities that people need. We are rushing at a speed that is enormous for our boat. Having summed up the horsepower of our mighty engine and the one that had gained strength, Cas. We cross the Yenisei-Bor winter road bridge.... And judging by the large amounts of ice that has appeared, we understand that very soon we will end up in the Yenisei. The largest river in the world. [music] [music] There was a fear that there was a storm on the Yenisei and a wave that was impassable for our boat. There are more than 300 km ahead and it could take many days to wait out the bad weather. But, fortunately, as soon as we got into the Yenisei, the wind stopped until it was completely calm. The sun came out and only huge mountains of ice reminded of the harsh nature of the great river. [music] [music] [music] [ music] [music] [music] [music] We have just completed the passage of the Ob-Yenisei connecting waterway. When we went there, I had the feeling that we were going to some kind of end of life, the end of the river. The river narrowed, became smaller, became smaller. We made our way through the branches. There was no water, it was practically gone. The locks began, but at some point we found ourselves on a huge watershed lake. And the water flowed in the other direction. And with every kilometer she began to pick up speed faster and faster in this stream . From the canal to the small Kas, then to the big Kas. Then Cas gained strength and, with all his might, plunged into the Yenisei at great speed. There is still unmelted ice on the Yenisei. Huge mountains, waterfalls. This is an incredible feeling, and I probably only now realized what the Russian pioneers could have experienced when We made our way through the taiga on small boats, boats, and sometimes on foot. They didn't know what awaited them. That there will be a huge river next. They had a feeling that now everything would end. But they didn't stop. They moved on. And their curiosity was rewarded. And it seems to me that everyone should probably experience this feeling. Understand how majestic the nature of Siberia is. What hides the next turn and how one river turns into another. [music] [music] - Now the ratings will go 5; 5; 5; 4; 5; 5; 5 - Can you do this? [music]