- Along the lines of choice, I'd like to shift gears slightly about our ability to make choices at all. - Well, my personal way out in left field inflammatory stance is I don't think we have Despite, you know, 95% of philosophers, and I think probably the majority that we have free will in I don't think there's any at all. And the reason for this you behave, you make a choice, whatever. And to understand why you did that and where did that intention come from, part of it was due to you were in in the previous minute. Some of it is from the hormone levels in your bloodstream that morning. Some of it is from whether or stressful last three months and what sort of neuroplasticity happened. Part of it is what hormone levels you were exposed to as a fetus. Part of it is what culture and thus how you were All of those are in there, and you can't understand without incorporating all of those. And at that point, not only are there all of but they're ultimately all one factor. If you're talking about what evolution has to by definition you're also If you're talking about what your genes have to do with behavior, by definition you're talking about how your brain was constructed or what proteins are coded for. If you're talking about you're talking about the sense of efficacy you were getting as a five-year-old. They're all intertwined. And when you look at all those influences, basically the challenge is, show me a neuron that or show me a network of neurons that just caused that behavior, and show me that nothing about what they just did was influenced by anything from the sensory to the evolution of your species. And there's no space in there that winds up being, you know, in your brain, but not of your brain. There's simply no wiggle - So I can appreciate that our behaviors and our choices are the consequences of a long line of dominoes that But, is it possible that I can intervene in the domino effect so to speak? In other words, can my recognition of the fact that genes have heritability, there's an epigenome, that there's a historical context, can the knowledge of that give me some small, small shard of free will? Meaning, does it allow I accept that my choices and yet knowing that gives me some additional layer of control. Is there any philosophical in which that works? - Nah. All of that can produce the that change can happen. Even traumatic change, you know, most unlikely people Things can change. Don't be fatalistic. Don't decide because we're that nothing can ever, change can happen, but where people go off that into we can change ourselves. We don't, we can't because However we can be changed by circumstance. And the point of it is, you look at an Aplysia, a sea slug, that has learned to retract its gil in response to a shock on its tail. You can do like conditioning, and it is learned, its behavior has been And you hear news about something like horrifically depressing going on and refugees in wherever, and as a result, you feel and a less of a sense of and both of your behaviors Okay, okay, yeah, I guess, but the remarkable thing is it's the exact same neurobiology. The signal transduction in that sea snail incorporate the exact same kinases, and that we do when you're having or when you're alert, it's conserved. It's the exact same thing in obviously a much, much fancier domain. And because you have learned despite understanding mechanistically that we can't change but because you understand you have just changed to respond to optimistic stimuli, and you have changed the to now send you in the to more information rather than depressing. Oh my God, that's amazing and Martin Luther King Wow, under the most they were able to do, maybe I can also. Maybe I can go read more to get even more data points so that your responses are different now. And you know you're in that direction of feeling instead of it's all damn hopeless. So enormous change can happen, but the last thing that could come out of a view of we are nothing more or less than the sum of our biology and its interaction with environment is to throw up your hands and say, and thus it's no use - So we can acknowledge that change is extremely that circumstances can change, and yet that striving to is still a worthwhile endeavor. - Do I have that correct? - Absolutely, because simply the knowledge either from experience or making it to the end of has taught you that change can happen within a framework of a You are now more open by the good news in the world around you. You are more likely to be You are more resistant to simply because you now [light rock music]