[MUSIC PLAYING] - We're here in part written a book, &quot;Go for as an astronaut and beyond the Astronaut Corps. And Captain Gibson is at the museum tonight. And so they were in agreeing to come in and So again, we're delighted - Thank you, thank you. - And perhaps, we might of background. Who were you? What were you like when you What were your interests, - Well, I was a in a really small town in people didn't go anywhere And one night, I went out and my father And that was the first satellite And it was put there And he said something He said, you are watching It's called the space age. And that made a real But I had a lot of before I could ever in something like that. Hoot's background is - Well, certainly, yeah. I grew up mostly in in the Los Angeles area, so pretty big town. Kind of typical California boy model airplane building-- been building model airplanes primarily, back then, And mom and dad In fact, that's how they met, My mom was learning was a flight instructor. So I grew up with from the time I was an infant. And so I had been And that's what steered that I wound up going and making as well. - At what point did to have a sense that you Obviously, you wanted But when did flying in air - I have a little from most of the astronauts. I know many of the they'll tell you an astronaut their entire life. I wanted to be a pilot. I'm an airplane person. Airplanes have wings. The Mercury, the Gemini, the They were, what And so I was fascinated interested in doing it myself. And when I first I remember I was reading magazine. And in this magazine of what a space shuttle like coming back from space. And this was in the early '70s. We had committed to And I saw that and the line I have got to get I remember looking at a I really want to fly that. So kind of a big change - And at that out of high school probably. - Oh, no. - High school, out of college? - Oh, no. I was in the Navy I was a fighter pilot in - Doing carrier landings? - Doing carrier landings. And I wanted to go to test pilot one of my goals my entire And then when space I knew if I wanted to be I needed to be a So that part of it wasn't But the fact was, man, I really - And Dr. Seddon, when that astronauts-- Astronautics might - When I was that little I thought, I wonder if I could But of course, back then, people But we were seeing Buck Rodgers on television. Some of us from back But it was about a guy that and go into space. And so we had the feeling get to go into space. But then when I began to they didn't look like me. They were men, and they And you had to be at least Well, I was going but I never reached 5 foot 6. So it didn't seem like a very But as quickly as the space we had people We had a Space Station and it was called Skylab. And I thought, well, have a Space Station up there, And that's really what I kind was to become a doctor. And so I thought, maybe I could And some sort of happen to me as I was I met a doctor who and he invited me out And I thought, well, maybe and I'll own my own airplane. But if I get to be an to be an astronaut, maybe would be a good thing to do. So as my life went began to happen to maybe this was what And just as I was finishing NASA announced they a new class of to fly on the space shuttle. And they were, for the first And they were going When you've sort of had for a long time and this is a you have to go for it. I didn't think I'd get in. But I could fill out And so I tried, and lo - And that was extraordinary for astronauts for there were at least And Dr. Seddon were selected their first which included 15 pilots, and And the space shuttle that it only really But everybody else could be a medical doctor, So this opened up a for people who were for women, African-Americans, who had not been So you all were called a and this was a new What was it like to be in and particularly some of the older astronauts Did they welcome you Were they a little Was it different if you - I saw open arms, They probably numbered about 25 who had been there. And this was the first time we years. This was 1978, and the previous So it was met with an both in the press and in because we just had not for nine years. So it was an were really excited to I'll say, the ground floor - A new vehicle, a - A whole entirely different Yes, absolutely. - How about you? Was it different being a woman? Obviously, it was a novelty Corps for the first time. Did the older astronauts welcome Or were they a little skeptical? - Well, they appeared to. And it was only later on that was some rumbling about I mean, who fit the mold? He was a fighter and so he was like the older But those of us who I can only imagine guys were thinking as for our first meeting. I didn't look like to drink yet because and look pretty young And we had people coming look like professors They had beards, and they And of course, for fighter we looked a lot different. So I think they were a But we all had our duties We came in with As you can imagine, of people to choose from when there that chose some pretty people. So I think once we prove that we were serious, that were required of us I think they accepted And as they accepted you and credentials, there was a that everything had procedures had been and women were I think you were into some of the spacesuits. - I was the littlest [LAUGHTER] - So there had to be changes. Women had long was some concern about how they they're in space if it floats At the time, I think, you there wasn't a locker room for - Right, exactly. - So-- - I haven't thought about that. - --NASA had to adjust. NASA had to adjust, just as Well, if I can ask you a little if it's not too were in the same There were 35 of you. How did you start and what impressed you encouraged you to start dating? There had never been daters-- - I think we-- - --in the Astronauts Corps. - We each remember-- we both we met. - I didn't want to go first. [LAUGHTER] Go ahead. - I can remember we were received the call that it came out in the newspaper. And we could see that we'd be flying but we really didn't know them. And so NASA invited were selected in January of each other, and and maybe look around for homes. And they had a sort of before we all went in to And I saw two people from the pictures that were And I knew that they Hoot was one of them. The other one was dark And I thought, oh, they're And so I went over And Hoot remembers that, too. Would you like to tell them? - Well, yes, I remember the it stands out because of unusual back in those days. This was the end And the other pilot I is one of the pilots that I test center, Mike Coates, And I remember he said, Hoot, And I said, no, I hadn't. He said, Rhea, this And I was impressed because to shake my hand. And protocol back you didn't shake unless she offered her hands. So it was-- nowadays, Men and women shake But back then, the lady was felt like shaking your hand. So it was a little bit unusual. But because Rhea was a professional profession, to shaking hands and all. But I have always - It's strange how some small suddenly become kind And you go back, and you And we both remember - And were you two assigned in the T-38s? Or did you choose - The T-38s are two-seater And they're transportation astronauts to get There are many NASA centers. But they were also learn how to be good crew So the backseaters, those had to get flight time in And so we could choose we wanted to fly with when Did I get that correct? - Sure, yeah, absolutely. - And the pilots to use the communication how to get strapped in, And then they would let us And by the time I left, they we wanted in those jets. If you can imagine being a more than small to be put in the back that I could fly a little bit, - A supersonic jet. - Supersonic jet. - A supersonic jet. So, yeah, and we We'd help train them. And like Rhea said, had been there a they could fly those They weren't allowed to do But they could fly - And that's how we got flying together. - And that's the beginning as you stated, which would [INAUDIBLE] as you integrated - Sure. - Now, you two married after and preparation to start flying. And as I recall, that was because it was a first. There were, of course, And in fact, there where the wife had been of Astronauts. And then her husband was But this was the first within the Astronaut Corps. And then a few years later, that also was reported in the Was that your first And did it give in how to handle this coming - I think the women-- the women got a lot of And we-- it made us feel that they were not But we were unusual. But yes, as you went you found out that a lot And certainly, when our and I'd like to tell a name for children Paul, our first son, was so he feels like he's - Yeah. - I guess that was also that the border and your public life was fluid-- - Yes. - --that it might shift. - Definitely. - I think we're ready both from our online audience So how shall we begin? With this young like to step up, and state your - I'm Alison Dove. And was it really hard Because I want to become one. And I've heard you had - Well, actually, you of different things. Math is one of them. You have to have at and hopefully more perhaps an MD or PhD degree. But I think you just and work hard, and show that And sometimes subjects are hard. Math was hard for me. Physics was really hard for me. But if you really have want to do something, how to get through it. And sometimes, you have I had to take physics in to get through it. But that's OK. It proves that you're Certainly, have to So keep yourself in good have to be willing and I think right now with science, math, engineering, - OK. We have an online question. What types of experiments did - Well, from the pilot I was a shuttle pilot, flew as And then flew four missions And so some of the things I'll refer to as flight testing, So even when we had flown we were still doing And so some of it was like that, fuel usage, and of how the shuttle And then we had materials that we were let Rhea talk about some of that we did. - We know also you and you had to point the So it was looking Most of my-- well, were inside in a laboratory. And we were looking at what when it goes into What happens when gravity And we wanted to know But we also wanted to people went into space when they were in do their work but also healthy as they got older. So there wasn't anything going to affect you later on. And so we did a lot of testing the heart, the inner ear What happens when The bones, does calcium And it does. What about your muscles? When you don't have to walk, your muscles get weaker. So there were a lot of things that we will have to figure out so you stay healthy in space. For instance, if you that may take three So some very were doing around Of course, a lot of different place on the shuttle. - OK. We have another question here. And your name? - My name is Alejandra. And what inspired you - What inspired you - I touched on it a little bit. I had been a jet fighter And I was flying is the airplane in And I had graduated But I was flying F-14 and one of the things was this space shuttle is And it's going to fly That's even higher and faster so I really want to fly those airplane in the world. And so I wanted to fly the That was part of the motivation. But as well the view It's spectacular to see the Good question. - And Alejandra, this was something that I had that I didn't think I And I was just very interested I mean, rockets were nice. Flying things was nice. But I wanted to learn when people go up there. And it was kind of a surgery, we had to And then to move into something but something that I felt like Thank you. - And that's a nice about your actual it was like to live and work in you performed in space as pilot commander or mission You are actually in charge of on space shuttle missions. As part of that, I along the way during suggested to you that instead you should go into nursing to be an astronaut, aspire to be a flight attendant. Did you encounter any on the way that you - This group of kids back when I was were certain things I grew up in the South, We were ladies-- certain were supposed to to work outside the home. And most women didn't And I think I can recount I went over to a where my family And I was speaking and he asked me kindly, how And I said, they're really Meaning, I wanted to And he looked at me and too cute to be a doctor. You'll just drop out So I think there were some when we were growing up that And I think everybody People will tell you, well, for girls or guys don't But I think you have to you want to do and just - And it is true that the space came along at the were tremendous changes going And women were beginning to they hadn't occupied before. And you were able then to bring in getting into the shuttle. Let's start with you, then, You flew almost the space shuttle could fly. You did satellite deployments. You did a mission to You did a laboratory mission. You did a Defense Among those different does one or another as being more challenging or-- - They all do. - --more fun or-- - They all do. - Oh, they all do? Each had its own challenge. - They all stood out in and you don't get You adapt to it, of course. But you-- every mission no matter what you were doing. My first mission was And as you mentioned, we into orbit. And they used their to carry themselves We made the first landing at Cape Canaveral. So we were the first mission to the Cape. And that was the 10th And then I commanded less than two years later. And we launched one satellite and things like that. And then-- oh, golly. I had a Department of Defense this day, I can't except that we launched a major And that's about all And then I had two Now, my final the biggest challenge of all. And that was the first performed by a space shuttle. And when I say docking, I to a Space Station. And in this case, it was the And one of the big was we had to attempt to And I say attempt I'm pretty good with physics, and those things. But languages? I are not good at languages. [LAUGHTER] English, for example, I And so learning Russian But the Russians and they could not afford or hire English teachers. So we had to make the effort And it's a little bit of The alphabet's all different. There are 33 characters And they're Greek, And so just the alphabet Here's the best sentence [SPEAKING RUSSIAN] [CHATTER] I speak Russian very badly, [LAUGHTER] So if I'm going to talk I will usually start off don't expect too much But what a fascinating - Absolutely. - And in your role were responsible not only and the safety of the crew, of all of the objectives Would you like to say anything in melding your crew that kind of success? - Sure, yes. As the crew commander, So I was the one to land the missions when I was And you're the And I'm very fond is a big difference between A leader is somebody says, OK, follow me, guys. Here we go. And we're going to going to make it look easy. That was one of my fundamentals. When I would first gather that I had been assigned to we're going to have fun. Because if we're not having fun, This is the neatest To get to go to space this is the neatest It's really going to be fun. And if we find that we're doing it wrong. And so I don't believe in especially smart, talented When I was a crew also as the chief astronaut-- I held the position for two years towards the I would not over I would tell them, here's And the other thing that I don't have all the answers. I do not have all the answers. So I'm looking to to give me some of the and to make this a team effort. And together, we So that's my-- those are some of - Well, and Rhea, you were and engineering side. And on your missions, you which is essentially all of the doesn't have to do with Would you like to talk about you managed, and what - Well, on my had experiments that were all over the world. So we had to learn and also how to be the subjects that were proposed. And I think the learned in being the payload a lot of coordination between that were building the crew and the scientists, who but had to teach And we had to work Certainly, the NASA wanted us to do missions We had to learn how to because the repairman if they're broken. So there was a lot of And I know that Hoot had to So learning how to work with taking everything understanding what that was a real leadership I don't think I had quite so broad-based than when - I think it would be hard, you had to do. Because you were trained in but any given mission might that ranged from to material science, to Earth observations. You had to master all of that. And you had to get your payload - The scientists you are our eyes, our minds, So there was a lot in understanding what rather than just - OK. I think we're ready for and we will start How did NASA handle your - They took it-- - With great surprise. - Yes, a lot of surprise. But I think we knew or be able to fly, together As far as being that after a certain I couldn't fly in the NASA seat. So there were some But they took it in stride. I mean, if you're going to have they may marry, and So it worked out pretty well. - And you all were very clever so that your children were - Six or seven years apart. - Right. OK. Let's take a question here And your name is? - My name is Princess, is, how much to do to become an astronaut? - How much training? You want to answer that? - Oh, golly, yes, a lot. - A lot? - The answer is a lot. And in fact, there that one of the was, as you were getting you were involved in training is how much training And we used to by training just as a joke. But yes, it was really intense. And you would train for an So you got assigned to and you train for Good question. - Thank you. - Good question. - OK. And your question is? - Hi, my name is Kayla. Did you ever feel sick - Did you ever feel sick? - Sick? There's something called space motion sickness. And we found that on the felt like they had and felt kind of seasick And we didn't exactly But we sort of necessarily due to the motion. But we still weren't very It was interesting There were seven of us. There was an engineer, an and the other guys They had flown a lot. They had never been motion sick. And there is because when we got to space, And the two scientists We kept looking at each other Are we sick yet? So some people did. Some people didn't. We found that you can that kind of fixes it. So we don't have to worry But I was very lucky of the people that felt sick. - We were both two that didn't get sick in space. So good question. - And we have another Will commercial spaceflight training program? What do you think? - Well, it certainly will. And the commercial you're going to be able to won't be managed by NASA. And it won't be managed And so it's going to is trained by the contractor. The contractor So there will be civilian because you need, obviously, your vehicle, whatever kind of So there will be. There will be. - Do you think it will be and people will be as tourists to enjoy eventually go to a Space - Absolutely. And in fact, Sir Richard Branson with that in mind, to be to the edge of space-- actually, in space, over on a relatively short flight. But that's going to proceed. He is dedicated to doing it. And so it's going to go forward. - That's really just OK. Let's take another - Hi, my name is Julia Kinser. And my question is, how while you're in space? [LAUGHTER] - Good practical question. Well, obviously you can't so we have toothpastes that - Eww-- - Eww. But you can brush your teeth. And if you don't feel you can spit it But that's just one that you get told what And you sort of think you know And sometimes, You brush your teeth. And all of a sudden, there's because you were And it's weightlessness but that and to eat meals in space, and you really can't learn But people that have flown pass But you have to kind of figure - So the answer is, the to swallow your toothpaste. It sounds gross, but there's It's fine. - Thank you for these questions. We'll We'll one more in a couple of minutes. But I'd like to spend a about being a a four-children children family. You all didn't fly But you might fly a mission. Hoot would be in training Then you would be in So you must have been away And your children must to having absent are in very demanding careers. Do you want to share any lessons life when those are the the family is growing up? - Well, we did And NASA would not have together on a flight having a couple. My fourth mission, of a flight where were not married when they but they became very And they wound up marrying, But they didn't We would not put a husband or a space vehicle of any kind. There's just too could leave children orphans. So you just would not do that. So Rhea and I, we had a bet as She was betting I would. I was betting she would. It wound up being me. I flew in 1984, then I flew in 1986. And then we had the So then I flew in I flew in '92, she flew in '93. And then I flew in 1995. So we took turns. So one parent was generally while the other person would be - But really, the answer When you have that kind of crazy you need somebody to help you. And we found a wonderful nanny and stayed with us, if you So she was wonderful, But I think our kids and we would be there for them. And we did all the usual family and would take time and all the craziness But we lived in a community We lived all around the Johnson and there were lots of who had crazy jobs like we did. And they went to that, OK, so-and-so's So-and-so's mother I don't think they That was just the way life was. That was their world. It was only later that how did all of that work? And that's one of the book, is to how we worked all of that out. - Now, you took the family and landings, which I imagine for the family. But did the children or worry that there or that you might not come home? And particularly like after your children-- you at the time of the But when the Columbia did you have to Or did they just get it, - They were all old of the Columbia accident. It was more so Challenger. And I remember Paul, our older he was, what, 3 and 1/2? - Mm-hmm. - He was 3 and 1/2 said he knew something that something had happened. And it really put him He just turned very quiet. So he knew something He knew mom and dad were But he wasn't quite old to really understand it. - But he was two years older again. And Hoot was down at the 25-- anyway, the - 26. - And as it got I could tell Paul was nervous. He kept saying his dad And I kept saying no. And so Anna Fisher, who had and I went to a quiet place and had to reassure our So I think they pick up on went on as before. But I think that they-- different ones of them had to worrying about us. But you handle that Children may worry that or they don't know where So I think we had to handle - Well, and there in the audience who are first responders or perhaps And I imagine within you have some of these same through your concerns. I'd love to ask Hoot and Rhea on the back of this book, which And let me hand you can comment on that picture. It's a very nice story. - It's a brilliant on the back of this book. You can guess who - He did. - This was Rhea's And I know you can't really where you are, but Columbia coming back to land And our little son Dann, who and is dressed in he has an astronaut and he's watching mom And I had been standing there shuttle as it was approaching. And I happened to And he was standing was waving at the space shuttle And I missed that photo before I could get But I did catch this picture-- - And this is the shuttle. - --of Dann watching - This is Columbia - --from space. I pointed that out already. - OK, good. - And the picture we had was of Paul in his flight. - That was with Paul - And then did Emily - Of course. - It got passed down. - Does the picture exist of all - I don't think so because it got passed down the way down to your younger siblings. - So that brings me to is, you have written a book. Was that an easy thing to - No, just like Hoot I had to learn to be a different part works on creative things like I had in medicine So I had written down some But I had to go in the blanks about how did that And I would remember, took So I could go back-- and I so I could go back and And so it took me I wanted to be able to It was really like. Because when you grow don't ask your parents, And how did that happen? And why did we move? You don't ask those questions. And my kids had or didn't know we were really doing when we or so. So that was why But I think it tells about and our friends, and in that era. - And Hoot, did you get to and add your perspective too? - No, I really-- [LAUGHTER] No, I really didn't. And the book is It really is good. And I didn't-- I didn't help with it at I helped process some - Right. We dug up all family And sometimes Hoot and a little differently about and we had to-- sometimes we folks and ask them who is right. And sometimes he was But we tried to get it straight. - Another example of teamwork. That's great. OK. Let's take a few more questions. Did any of the space shuttles from an aircraft? - From another? It says from another. - Oh, or from another. I'm sorry, I misread it. - Well, pretty much And that was the aim. That was the goal of NASA, so that you wouldn't have to on a particular shuttle. Columbia was the so it was a little But for the most part, - And I should say, Discovery in our collection. It's on display at And because of the Columbia it's the oldest of the that flew the most missions, And so if you ever go near Dulles Airport. You can walk around And I think you'll be We have a very been waiting to ask a question. - How hot is the landing? - How hot is the landing? - Oh, maybe the approach? - Oh, the re-entry. Good question. The re-entry. When we come back into we're going 25 times We're going 17,500 We hit the air. And to answer your becomes 9,000 degrees It's hot enough to melt steel. So the thermal protection, that are on the shuttle from that high temperature. So yes, it's very hot outside. It looks like you're is what it looks like. Good question. - But inside, you It just looks kind - And by comparison, when you you're driving maybe 60 the space shuttle flew So that's just Here's a question. What do you do if We always have people these nutty questions-- but these questions about and getting sick in space. What happens somebody vomits? - Hopefully, they have kept I never got sick. I never got sick on any Nevertheless I always had a barf So you didn't want to be - We actually have a couple of And you can see one inside this cabin. Here, if you look into you'll see the barf bag sticking You have a question. - Yes my name is Chris, and what like? - A-ha. What is your first food-- - I think when the they didn't have So they had to eat going to stay inside of them. And so it was kind and they squeezed it out. But it had protein and and stuff in it. But it wasn't very tasty. And then when they got to and they could have And then when we they tried to make it because you don't to be starving in space. And we could go and taste the Some of it was might take on a camping trip because we had plenty Some of it was in meal bags take when they're And those were very good. And we got to take some the space shuttle flights When we started out, it was got up to 14 days. But we knew that there were for a period of time. We've got to take some fresh and things like that. - We could take a We tried to talk them into But they found the bag, the bread out of the So we had to figure And so instead of took tortillas good for making peanut, But they were fun to play with. Imagine shooting Frisbees So we tried to make the and it's even better So we learned a food, heating food, what people Your taste changes a little bit. So it was in a bag usually. But it tasted pretty good. - It was good. - Especially if it was - Yes, like spicy stuff. - OK. Here's another question. What career opportunities are - Oh, golly. After you've been an do anything you want to do. People seem to be somewhat And if you have you can do just about anything. When I left NASA-- Rhea and I left NASA in 1996-- I went to work as an airline And I got to do and that was a great But astronauts to be vice presidents of Boeing, Martin and places like that so. Rhea went to Vanderbilt to be the assistant So after being an astronaut, do anything you think - But I think a we have learned as in different fields. When I went from being a medical officer at I remembered about how and how we had to make sure we were doing doctors and nurses take Then I formed a company that And then I wrote the book. So you can see that I used into the next. And I think you, young have more than one And sometimes, you get laid what did I learn there that So you have to learn to make - And both of you also at schools and conferences, on leadership and teamwork. And so you're putting - Sure. - I think we have one - Hi, my name is Tiffany. And what was the most hardest - The hardest thing-- - The hardest thing about it. - I guess the hardest is getting selected in As Rhea mentioned, you degree in either engineering, or be a teacher. So you had to have And there's a lot of So there were 8,000 people that when we got selected. And they only pick 35 are kind of against you. So you would say, OK, gee, But at the same, time and it might as well be you. So that's the other - Definitely worth trying. - And knowing job you get up there are watching you - Well, and I've say that after all of they worry about the most is making mistake, messing up. Being responsible not being 100% successful. So I think every one of them to do their part to And it's very rare that This has been a I'm just delighted that to talk with Captain Hoot and to have such a lively and so many interested Again, I'd like to Thank generously sponsors. These programs. And I'd like to remind our local be doing a book signing right a few minutes. And for those of on Facebook or the is available online as well. You can find it via And it may well be in your It's called Go for Orbit. A female astronaut or a woman And it really is with a lot of the kinds that we've talked about today. Will you join me in [APPLAUSE] [MUSIC PLAYING]