Dear friends, this course is rather unusual. It's going to contain a lot of pictures, so you can both listen and watch. I understood from talking to students that we memorize history in fragments. First comes Peter the Great, then - Catherine the Great. Then - the Decembrist uprising. But what happened between them, and in what order ... Not to mention the era of palace coups! The 18th century is very complex on its own. It's a cluttered mess. Who came after Peter? Who came after Catherine? Not the one you thought of right now. And etc. I'm going to try and establish a timeline here. And meanwhile we'll talk a little more about the humanity of our sovereigns. About their habits, weaknesses, strengths, illnesses and passions. 'Cause people memorize this kind of information very well. This doesn't mean that we will talk excessively about the role of the individual in history. There were different individuals. Some of them were weak, some were very weak, and some were completely insignificant. Fate helped them to rise, and they ended up at the head of a huge, beautiful and very large country called the Russian Empire. Let's start with the death of Peter the Great. Peter the Great dies at the very beginning of 1725 in St. Petersburg in his palace, which was the foretype of the Winter Palace located by the so-called Winter Canal. It's a tiny canal in St. Petersburg that connects the Neva and the Moyka. You can go there and see it for yourself. It will be a short walk. That's where Peter's palace was. Now it's no longer there. It has been rebuilt. And today it's part of the enormous complex of the Winter Palace. That's where Peter the Great died in utter agony. His death wasn't sudden. The ruler's death is usually sudden only for the people. The sovereign died. Bam and he's dead. In reality, rulers usually suffered from various diseases during their whole lifetime. Whoever it was. Whether it was Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov, Lenin or Peter the Great. It's just that people find out about it only after their death. Peter the Great had been ill for a long time. He got sick often, despite his body tympanum. Let me remind you that Peter the Great's height was 6'8. The height of an average basketball player. In those days, the average height for a healthy man was 5'5, and for women - 5'1. They were all below Peter's elbow. He was a giant. And though he was 6'8, his foot size was 6. We know this for a fact, 'cause there are shoes left. His shoulder width was around 18 inches. A bit narrower than mine. Imagine what a figure he had. And I'm not saying he's a weakling. Peter the Great was physically very strong. Peter's favorite pastime during lunch was to take coins, bend them with his hands into a tube and grant them as souvenirs. Especially to young ladies. If your gentleman unbends them, then you can safely marry him. This would mean that he's an O.K. guy. Try it. I dare you. There are a lot of stories about how he bended and unbended pokers. He was a very tough guy. But he got sick often. His lifestyle was completely inappropriate. So before his death, he also fell seriously ill. With what? We believe that he had severe pneumonia, which provoked a large number of diseases that chronically stored up in Peter. By the way, the circumstances of his cold are usually very romanticized. It's the favorite story of those who love Peter as a historian figure. It is believed that during a flood in St. Petersburg, Peter got into the Neva's icy water to rescue some sailors and ordinary people. Naturally, he caught a terrible cold and fell ill. So he caught a cold saving people. 'Cause Peter the Great didn't spare himself in the service. His whole life was a service to the state. We must give him credit for that. So he caught a cold. Had pneumonia. Then came the aggravation of all diseases. He was suffering a lot. People said that his cries spread throughout the whole Winter Palace. He was sick for two weeks. Somewhere 5-6 days before his death, a priest came to him. He received his communion, confessed his sins. It was clear that Peter wouldn't make it. And the country didn't have an heir. I mean literally. Despite his tendency to over-regulate everything ... And just so you know, Peter issued a colossal number of laws, decrees, rescripts, clarifications to decrees, clarifications to clarifications of clarifications of decrees. They were rather weird and often contradicting one another. He forgot what he issued a couple of years ago. But despite his love for legislation, Peter didn't take care of one thing. Of the sovereign's most important duty in the times of absolute monarchy. He didn't take care of the successions of power. He adopted a new law. The previous one, which had been in effect for centuries before, stated that the eldest one in the male line gets the throne. It could be either the eldest son or the eldest of brothers. Peter abolished that order and said that he would pick the next sovereign. Regardless whether he would be related to the royal family or not. We understand why that happened. Because of the tragedy that happened to Tsarevich Alexey. And in 2 weeks Peter didn't bother to name his successor. Why? That's a good question. We don't know why. There is a version that he wanted to leave his wife Catherine as his successor. Therefore, a few months before his death, which he didn't foresee, he crowned her. It was the second time in history when a woman was crowned a queen or an empress in accordance with all the rites. The first attempt was a bad one. When False Dmitry crowned Maria Mnishek. Perhaps he was preparing Catherine to become his successor. Historians think that's possible. Another version is that he was going to appoint someone at the last moment. People already brought him a slate board, on which he inscribed with his trembling hand: &quot;Give everything to...>>. But then his hand fell and he passed out. And he didn't give the empire to anyone. I don't believe in any of these stories. First of all, the "Give everything to" story has only one source, and it was spread quite deliberately. As for Catherine, Peter was anything but a fool. He loved his wife very much, but I think he had no illusions considering her ruler's skills. We still have no idea, and I'll tell you more about this later, whether Catherine could read or write. There are many controversies on that matter. But we know for sure that she had no ruler's skills and was the absolute opposite of Catherine the Great. Therefore, most likely, by crowning his wife, Peter the Great simply took care of her future, of her position. That girl was of dubious origin, to put it mildly. He simply wanted her, their children and their future heirs not to worry about their future. Peter didn't appoint an heir for two reasons. First of all, he didn't see anyone who was his equal. This is common for outstanding individuals. Second, he wasn't going to die. Moreover, I think that, even after he received his communion, he thought that he wouldn't die. Because not one tyrant - and Peter the Great, by his very nature, was definitely a tyrant - not one tyrant, not one absolute monarch thinks that he will ever die. They all consider themselves immortal. I'm not giving you any historical analogies. We have plenty of them in our world history. Anyways, let's get back to Peter's death and the Winter Palace of that era. And the tiny Winter Canal between the Neva and the Moyka river. People heard terrible cries, and Peter the Great died. At that moment, it was being decided where the Rus Bird Troika would rush. Would it rush back to the west? To the Dutch dams and skerries, where the restless Peter the Great had been rushing it for 35 years in a row. Or, on the contrary. It would turn around and go back to Muscovy to the good, old days. Or, as Western scholars would say it, to the old Horde order, that prevailed in Russia for half a thousand years before Peter. Something else happened. And that something was quite expected. The Bird Troika started wheezing, shook its two-headed eagle heads and stopped. It decided to take a break. 'Cause after Peter's death - and I'm telling you this as an energetic historian who's always after some large-scale events - after Peter's death nothing even remotely interesting happened. But it doesn't mean that there's nothing interesting to tell. That's what we're going to talk about now. The Gallant century, the so-called era of queens, which lasted in our history more than 70 years, almost the entire 18th century, from 1725 to the very end of the 18th century, started with Peter's death. With the death of a great reformer that had been pushing this massive nation in the direction only he knew. This great reformer was replaced by various prominent queens and barely noticeable male sovereigns. Among them was this boy - Peter II. Well, Menshikov, the semi-sovereign ruler, used to call him a boy. There also was the so-called drunken idiot Peter III that reigned for only a few months. And, of course, the strangest sovereign of the 18th century - Paul I. Let's start with Peter's wife Catherine I. We'll talk about where she was born and how she ended up on the throne. It's a story about Cinderella. Probably one of the most fantastic, incredible stories in the history of mankind. It is about a young woman, whose name and origin are still unknown. We only know that she had a difficult youth. She was a low social responsibility woman. Not because she was lascivious, but because she suffered some hard times. A woman with the lowest social origin became at the end of her life an autocratic ruler and empress of the largest empire on the planet at that time. How did that happen? Let's see. What do we really know about Marta Skavronskaya? A.k.a. Marta Visilevskaya, a.k.a. Marta Rabe, a.k.a. Catherine Mikhailova. Where was she born? No one knows for sure. According to the main version, she was born in Livonia, in a provincial town called Kegums, which still exists. Livonia was a Swedish territory in the Baltics. It was a significant part of modern Latvia, as well as part of Estonia. The main city was Riga. Riga wasn't a Latvian city, but a German one. So Germans were in charge. And Latvians, Livonian, Estonians, Poles and Russians were the oppressed local population. So she was born in the German-Swedish territory. According to another version, she was born in a slightly larger town - Dorpat. Today's Tartu, Estonia's territory. By the way, the city of Tartu was founded by Russians and was called Yuryev. It was founded by Yaroslav the Wise. The true name of the future empress is unknown. There are three versions of her first and last names. It is said that she was born into the family of a peasant named Skavronski or Skvarashuk, who fled to Livonia from serfdom. Over time, the surname was Polonized and she became Skavronskaya. When her brothers and sisters were brought to St. Petersburg during the lifetime of Peter the Great ... By the way, we don't know for sure whether they were her siblings or cousins. The data vary. There were a lot of jokes back then. One would say that the empress was very much ashamed of her uneducated brothers. That when she met them for the first time, she almost fainted from shame. She was very emotional and Peter was a man who judged people not by origin, but by their personal merits. So he said to her: "There's no need to blush. I accept your brother as my brother-in-law, and if he is any good, I'll make a man out of him. &quot; But he wasn't any good. And didn't become a man in the historical sense. As the nobleman said, who was in charge of the search, all of Catherine's relatives, who were brought to Moscow and St. Petersburg, quote: &quot;Turned out to be stupid and alcoholics.&quot; Therefore, the nobleman recommended sending them: &quot;Somewhere else, so that they wouldn't do any harm.&quot; But it didn't stop Catherine from using her administrative resource and granting her two brothers countship in 1727, after Peter's death. However, while corresponding, she never called them her siblings. In her will they were called: &quot;The closest relatives of my last name.&quot; Oddly enough, Peter the Great never called his wife Skavronskaya. He never used that last name. He called her Visilevskaya or Vasilevskaya, as our future famous marshal. He believed that she was Vasilevskaya. In 1710, after conquering Riga, Peter the Great wrote in his letter: &quot;About my wife's relatives - Yagan Vasilevsky, Anna, Daratea and their children.&quot; So maybe she wasn't Skavronskaya. And finally, her official last name from her first marriage was Rabe. It is believed that her first husband was a dragoon in the Swedish army. Under that very name she got into Alexey Tolstoy's famous novel &quot;Peter the Great&quot;. Although, again, we don't know for sure. Maybe it was her maiden name. It's all very confusing. But we can definitely claim that somehow the young Marta Skavronskaya-Vasilevskaya-Rabe ended up in the house of pastor Gluck. Pastor Gluck is a historical figure. She got into his house as a maid. It was okay to work as a maid at the age of 12 in those years. According to the official version of the Romanovs' history, she got there as a foster-daughter, but, of course, she came there as a servant. Pastor Gluck was a very educated person. He left a big mark in history. He was a remarkable individual, studied pedagogics. As a Lutheran-German pastor and theologian, he translated the Bible into Latvian. He also translated the Bible into Russian. And then, having fallen into Russian captivity during the Northern War, he opened a gymnasium in Moscow, where he managed to teach several hundred people. Klyuchevsky wrote: &quot;Gluck's gymnasium was a gymnasium in the modern sense of the word.&quot; Therefore, its graduates often worked as translators, or they ended up in the army. And this educated Johann Ernst Gluck did absolutely nothing to educate his &quot;foster-daughter &quot;. That's why we don't know if she knew how to read and write. When the girl turned 16, she was married to a Swedish soldier. According to one of the versions, Marta may have developed close relations with one of pastor's sons. That's why he decided to get rid of his maid. He didn't want any vicious nexus under his roof. Although not only dragoon Rabe was considered one of Catherine's first husbands. There was also a certain corporal Mayer, and a military trumpeter Johann Cruz. Her husband either went to war and died, or disappeared during the storming of some city. Some people said that he was taken prisoner near Poltava. Or that Peter himself sent him to Siberia, because during the Poltava Swedes prisoners' march across Moscow, Rabe allegedly recognized his wife Catherine and yelled: &quot;Marta, Marta.&quot; All in all, these are all stories for TV-series. That's not important. What's important is that Catherine was officially married. She bore Peter 11 children. And according to Russian laws, all those children were bastards. Born not only outside of marriage, but also with a living husband, whose fate was unknown. That is, both Anna, born in 1708, and the future Empress Elizabeth, born in 1709, turned out to be not royal daughters, when they were considered to the throne. They were daughters born to the tsar by his mistress while her husband was still alive. It influenced our history a lot. However, her upbringing didn't bother Catherine at all. She didn't hesitate to talk about it, met with great pleasure with people who knew her before her rise. However, each time she talked about her descent, she told a different story, which completely confused historians and memoirists. In August 1702, after a long battle, Field Marshal Sheremetyev conquered the Swedish fortress Marienburg, which is now the city of Aluksne in Latvia. He took the fortress by storm. Our troops rushed in and at that very moment, which is a rare case for Western European history, two Swedish officers sacrificed their lives. They blew up the powder magazines of the fortress along with them. Many Russian soldiers died. Sheremetyev was furious. He left the town for plunder. Suddenly a delegation headed by pastor Gluck came to the town. He began to persuade him to stop the atrocities. Along with the pastor came his maid Marta. Sheremetyev liked the maid, so he kept her as a war trophy. He made her his, let's call it, servant. We don't know the details. Soon Menshikov came to Sheremetyev with an inspection. From this moment we know exactly what happened. Since Menshikov liked the young beauty, he made a deal with Sheremetyev. And took her away. In those days, it was common practice. Firstly, Menshikov was Sheremetyev's boss, and secondly, perhaps Sheremetyev was already bored with her. As a result, he gave her up. Catherine liked that twist of fate a lot, since Menshikov was much younger and not as evil as Sheremetyev. That's when Catherine showed her charms for the first time. I'll quote one of the memoirists of the Petrine era - a Frenchman that left very interesting memories of the Russian imperial court of that era: "She managed to sweep her master Menshikov off his feet and in a few days after her appearance one couldn't tell anymore who was the master and who was the slave. &quot; He knew what to tell. A few years later, in 1712, he became best man at Peter's and Catherine's wedding. And married one of the daughters of that same pastor Gluck. That's how close people were those days. The French nobleman in the Russian service rose to the rank of vice admiral and left some very interesting notes about that era. And then Peter the Great himself arrived in Livonia, at Menshikov's house. He liked Catherine too. At the end of the dinner, Peter the Great ordered her to see him off to his room with a candle. He said it jokingly, but he wouldn't take any objections. Menshikov understood everything and accepted it. Thus, according to the memoirists, the young beauty spent the night in the sovereign's room. In the morning, Peter the Great left Catherine a gold ducat. It wasn't a lot. Not a big parting gift. Peter the Great was quit greedy, even when it came to his intimate relations. He kissed her on the cheek and they said their goodbyes. But as it turned out, they said goodbye only to meet again. Our great unmarried sovereign, who never lacked female attention, sensed something in Catherine. He returned to her and took her away with him. Less than a year before his death, six months before Catherine was accused of adultery, Peter made her empress and co-ruler. The crown, which was placed upon Catherine's head, was decorated with two thousand diamonds. Two thousand gems. This was probably the most expensive crown in the history of Russia. Although, right after the ceremony, since Peter wasn't a big spender, the gems were picked out of the crown. The crown was sent to the Armory, and the gems were sold for the needs of the fleet. Let's take a break from Catherine's coronation for a moment. Crowned empress, Catherine still had no rights to the Russian throne after the emperor's death. Since the emperor's will wasn't expressed, and Peter didn't write: &quot;Give everything to...,&quot; the old order was still in effect. According to the old order, a woman couldn't inherit the throne. Even if she was 10 times the empress. It was impossible. Catherine didn't have legitimate children who could get the throne. As I said, the children were born not so much in sin, but against all laws. And most likely with a living husband, outside of marriage with Peter the Great. Who could be the heir? There was an heir. The one and only and he met all European standards. It was Peter's grandson - also Peter. Peter II - the son of Tsarevich Alexey, who died on the eve of his execution. He was a Romanov and Peter's direct male grandson. He was the only living male heir. The only living Romanov. Plus, he had an excellent European pedigree. He was the nephew of the Austrian empress. Tsarevich Alexey was married to an Austrian princess. There wasn't a more obvious candidate for the throne. That's why the race for power began. A race that was provoked by the absence of a direct heir. From the very beginning, the guard intervened in that race for power. Several parties were formed. To be honest, it's a disgusting story. The Tsar was still alive. He was in agony. He could neither speak, nor walk. He was just lying and dying. Screaming of pain. There was this one popular satirical series of drawings. It was called: &quot;Mice burying a cat.&quot; Peter the Great was the cat. Critics portrayed him with a mustache. So he was the dying cat. And Golitsyn, Dolgorukiy, Menshikov, Osterman and others were the mice. He was still alive while they buried him and fought each other. Deciding who would rule the throne. Two main parties were formed. The party that supported Catherine, headed by Menshikov. And the party that supported the legitimate heir, as one said, led by Golitsyn. But last names don't matter now. In Soviet historiography, it was believed that one party was progressive. The party that wanted to see more of Peter's reforms. And the second party was reactionary. It included the boyars, who didn't want any reforms and wanted to go back to the old Moscow days. That's total nonsense. The so-called Progressive Party, which included Menshikov, Tolstoy and others, supported Catherine only because they wanted to stay alive and retain their positions. They were fighting for their lives. It is clear that Menshikov was on good terms with his ex-girlfriend. They always helped each other. The second party was no less progressive. Golitsyn was a thousand times more educated man than Menshikov, who also could neither read nor write. He was the most educated man of his time. But that party believed that it would be better for Peter to become the heir. That way all those rootless upstarts would fade into the background. As a result, the Guard, led by Menshikov, burst knocking down the doors into the Senate's session, where the fate of the throne was being decided. Menshikov blew off a piece of fluff from his cuff, twisted his mustache and while taking out a saber from the scabbard, said that he personally believed that Mother Empress should be the sole ruler. And that's it. He and the guards supported her. And if anyone had a problem with that, he told them to speak up in the presence of armed officers. Drunken guards were shouting that they wanted Catherine. Meanwhile, drums were beating in the square. It turned out the officers didn't come on their own. Two guard's regiments were lined up in front of the palace. Field Marshal Repnin, the president of the military collegium, asked angrily: &quot;Who dared to bring regiments here without asking me?&quot; To which the commander of the Preobrazhensky regiment replied: "I brought the regiments at the behest of the Empress, whom everyone must obey. Including you," - he added, addressing the Minister of Defense of those times. Repnin backed down. The Senate unanimously elevated the Empress to the throne. That unanimity was inspired by the two guards regiments lined up in the street and a group of armed officers in the ceremonial hall. As a result, Catherine was proclaimed Empress. The people were surprised. Of course reigning women were no strangers to Russia. For example, there was the legendary princess Olga, Sofya Vitovna, and the regent Elena Glinskaya. Back in the days before Ivan the Terrible. The most recent one was Princess Sophia, the de facto ruler of Russia before Peter. But powerful women always ruled unofficially. They all ruled secretly, because the heirs were too young to ascend the throne. Sophia ruled because Tsarevich Peter was too little. By the way, Sophia almost never left the palace. True, she received foreign ambassadors there, which was a totally new thing. True, she held working meetings. But she used to leave the palace only to go to church, to pray. Peter emancipated and liberated the ladies in Russia to such an extent that the appearance of a woman at the head of the state didn't shock anyone. It didn't provoke any riots or uprisings. In some places people immediately refused to swear allegiance to her. They said that women should do that. And they were all put on the wanted list. Many cases of insulting the royal dignity appeared during that period. But on the whole, everything went rather smoothly. Of course, the guardsmen appeared in front of the palace for a reason that day. And there was a reason for their love for Catherine. They worshipped her not because she was the wife of Peter the Great. But because Catherine always generously paid the guards officers. The day before Menshikov had paid their salary for a year and a half in advance. Partially covering his debts. That's how they bought the guard's loyalty. When they had no money left, Menshikov drew bills of exchange to the guards. So when Peter finally died, when his soul, after two weeks of terrible torment, left this world, the reign of Catherine I began. It wasn't a long reign. It lasted for about two years. It wasn't glorious either. I quote: "Her reign, fortunately, for Russia lasted only 26 months," - wrote the historian Varishevsky. Her reign eventually resulted in Menshikov having all the power. Under Peter the Great, all the actions of the sovereign were targeted to meet the needs of the state. There was this massive mobilization of the exertion of all forces. Today, this governing style is criticized, due to modern ideas about morality. But Peter the Great sincerely tried to lead Russia to greatness. Not to wealth or prosperity, but to greatness. He sacrificed his life and health for it. And according to historians, under Catherine I the country simply rested. We had some sort of winter holidays that lasted for almost two years. Catherine learned to sign papers properly only three months after she came to power. That was basically all she did. For the rest, she relied on her advisers, mostly on Alexander Menshikov. People talked about him behind his back, saying that he acted as an emperor. And he, in turn, having fallen into disgrace in the last years of Peter's reign and having lost many positions, got them all back and gained all sorts of titles. The nobles were mired in intrigues, fighting over each other's ranks. Everything sunk into the mire of greed for power and money. Officially, the country was ruled by the Supreme council - the authority established a year after the death of Peter the Great in 1726. It was a tsar that kind of consisted of six people. The Petrovsky Senate lost its significance, and the Supreme council demanded reports from the Senate Collegium, reprimanded, threatened with fines, and accepted rescripts. Etc. What good was done under Catherine? She abolished the Secret Chancery - the almighty body in charge of persecution and torture. Although later that body will be revived more than once under various names throughout the 18th century. But Catherine and her advisers decided to end that terror. By her decision in St. Petersburg, the pillars, on which the bodies of executed criminals hung, were torn down. Those pillars were dismantled and demolished to the ground. The bodies were ordered to be removed and buried. Just imagine, you're walking in St. Petersburg, in Peter's era, and there are dead bodies everywhere. At least Catherine was kind enough to end that torture. It was truly unprecedented liberalism. A series of acts of oblivion followed. Although, a couple of impostors, pretending to be Tsarevich Alexey, had to be executed. One was in Little Russia, the other in Astrakhan. They ended up both in St. Petersburg on the chopping block. The country's economy was in a terrible decline. Many nobles wrote notes to Catherine about what needs to be done to revive commerce, trade and production. They wrote about the need to cut military spending. Little has been done. The poll tax was reduced, but insignificantly. Back in the days, Peter the Great carried out a census, then an audit, based on the results of which the so-called census lists were drawn up. If you remember, Chichikov used exactly those census lists to buy souls. At that time, they counted almost 6 million men, who were obliged to pay the poll tax. They paid 74 kopecks (cents) per person per year. That tax was not levied on landowners, clergy and Cossacks. Catherine slightly lowered that tax. It was a rather small reform. Also there was established The Order of Alexander Nevsky. Peter thought of the idea, but Catherine established it. Now is the year of the 800th birth anniversary of Alexander Nevsky, so I just have to talk about it. The Order of Alexander Nevsky, established by the decree of Catherine, was and remains the only order in the history of Russia, which existed in the Tsarist empire and in the Soviet Union. The junior commander's order, the officer's order. It looked different, but it was called the same and had a picture of Alexander Nevsky's profile. Nobody knows what Alexander Nevsky looked like. Therefore, the order depicted the profile of the People's Artist of the Soviet Union Cherkasov, who played Alexander Nevsky in the famous film by Eisenstein. Now the Order of Alexander Nevsky is one of the most honorable awards that have both military and civilian designation in the Russian Federation's award system. It appeared under Catherine. In those days, there were different orders. Some of them were made of metal, some were decorated with gems, and some were covered with diamonds. If a person wanted an order he had to pay the treasury. If a person was poor, for example a poor officer, he could get an order for free. The order with diamonds cost about 400 rubles. At that time, it was big money. Pay the treasury and wear the order with diamonds. Those were very...interesting approaches. The Academy of Sciences was opened. Of course, it wasn't Catherine's decision, she knew little about it. It was Peter's decision, but implemented under Catherine. By the way, from the very beginning our Academy of Sciences was different from those in Europe. In the west, those academies simply provided a meeting place for professors. Like a membership club. Those academies accepted everybody. Peter the Great was an academician of the French Academy of Sciences. Alexander Menshikov was an academician of the British Academy of Sciences. Menshikov himself never overestimated his wisdom and never mentioned that title among his numerous ones. I guess he was embarrassed. He didn't want to be laughed at. In Russia, the St. Petersburg Imperial Academy wasn't simply a membership club. It was a government agency. Academicians were paid there. And its goal was to provide scientific and technical services for various kinds of state projects. The academy also had an educational function, since it had both a gymnasium and a university. That way, the academy combined the function of both a research institute and a higher educational institution. Let's move on. Under Catherine, Bering, who has a strait named after him, set off for an expedition. The first expedition of Kamchatka was carried out. A full-fledged exploration of our colossal country has begun. Peter made the decision, but Catherine signed the documents and endorsed the funding. But in general, everything went by inertia. Past triumphs, neglect of the present. Historians believe that Peter's Russia bit off more than it could chew. Thank God, the neighbors weren't doing well either. That has left Catherine's Russia for two years a certain freedom of action. In the north, Sweden, which was defeated by Peter and had ceased to be a full-fledged European superpower, had a dynastic crisis. Charles XII was killed under very strange circumstances. He didn't have any descendants, he couldn't. He was very proud of his virginity. I think he was killed because everyone got tired of his endless wars, especially in ravaged Sweden. The country was in complete disarray. The Swedish king fought exclusively on foreign loans. The male population in Sweden was declining rapidly. That's when under Peter's reign a union treaty with Sweden was signed. Thus, Sweden became Russia's ally. As for our closest neighbors - Courland, the Commonwealth - all those states gradually fell into full or partial dependence on the young Russian empire. Russia even clashed with Denmark when it presented its legal territorial claims to Holstein, that's was in northwest Germany, near the Danish border. In the South, we continued to fight with the Persiansiu, who weren't putting up much resistance. In theory, Russia was paving the way for greater control in the southern Caspian region. We also formed an alliance against Turkey. Under Catherine, the Vienna Treaty of 1726 was signed between the Austrian and Russian empires. That treaty later became one of the longest diplomatic international alliances in history. It lasted more than a hundred years and in many ways determined world politics for a century to come. The assertion of the imperial status of Russia continued. What is an empire? For Europeans, there was only one empire - the Roman Empire. Then the Roman Empire had "heirs". For a short time it was the empire of Charlemagne, and then an amorphous formation called the Holy Roman Empire. It was an informal alliance of sovereign dukes and kings who chose the emperor among themselves for a period of time. There were plenty of kings and dukes. But there was only one emperor of the Holy Roman Empire. There were no other empires. One could think of the emperor of the Eastern Roman Empire or Byzantium, Constantinople, but it was old history. From 1453, after the fall of Constantinople, the Byzantine Empire ceased to exist. Therefore, there remained only one emperor in Europe. The emperor of the Holy Roman Empire. After he defeated Sweden, Peter the Great proclaimed himself emperor and caused general discontent among the Europeans. People called him an upstart and an impostor. His country was large, the eastern borders weren't even visible. Judging by the map - it was sheer Tartary. Our population was smaller than France's and much smaller than Germany's. Military power was never taking into account. Although after the defeat of the Swedes, the world began to reckon with the Russians. We were called a dangerous rival. But emperor? It was too much. So began the long process of recognition of the Russian Empire status. The first to recognize Peter as emperor was the king of Prussia. Then Venice. Then Holland. Then came the German principalities, Sweden. Sweden even signed a peace treaty with us. Then came Geneva, Denmark, Norway. Then everything was put on pause. Turkey recognized our status only in 1739 because the Turkish sultans considered themselves emperors and heirs of the Eastern Roman Empire. Finally, they condescended and recognized Russia as an empire as well. France also recognized our status. Poland was the last to recognize Russia as an empire In 1764. Soon the country ceased to exist. The development of the east proceeded from the Urals. The borders of the new empire shifted up to Kamchatka. Finally, under Catherine, an official border with China appeared. An active duty-free trade with China began. The country was developing, but very slowly. And not thanks to Catherine, but thanks to that boost that Peter gave to Russia. Soon the Catherine era ended. For two years Russia has been rolling by inertia. All the good that was done under Catherine was proposed by Peter the Great, including the Academy of Sciences, Bering's expedition, the further construction of the fleet and diplomatic relations in the south and west. What role did Catherine play in all that? The Minimal role. Her lifestyle after becoming an empress radically differed from her previous lifestyle, when she was Peter's wife. She wasn't supposed to deal with state affairs. So she did nothing. We're not talking here about Catherine the Great or Nicholas I. She didn't work at all. And all the good things that I could say about her as a woman and a person, I've already said. She was cunning, not evil and kind to her friends. That's it. There's nothing more to say. But I can definitely say something about her vices. Human weakness affected our history badly. At Catherine's court, everyone was drinking a lot. There's even a joke: "Menshikov, who showed up every day in the morning with a report, asked the empress each time: "What should we drink?" And before breakfast they started drinking. But Menshikov was a tough fellow. And Catherine's health after giving birth to 11 children began to decline. At court people were drinking a lot. The Austrian ambassadors wrote that in a year people in St. Petersburg drank more than one million rubles worth of alcohol. That's a gigantic figure. I think that the Petersburg courtyard couldn't drink that much, because it is a very large amount of money. I don't even know what to compare this amount with. Perhaps, There was a so-called Peter's goblet. If you were late or if you were giving a toast, you had to drain it dry. Though historians still argue about that. Cups were very different. Way more than with 1-liter capacity. Any lady of the court that drank three Peter's cups received at the end of the evening a gift from Catherine. For example, a golden medal. In Europe, people also drank a lot. Maybe even more than in Russia. But rarely did the ruling elite get drunk. What was Catherine's lifestyle like? She went to bed no earlier than five a.m. Got up well after noon. After waking up and brushing up, she went to the palace's presence-chambers. At that time, the guard wasn't very strict. You could even find nobles and sailors in the palace. She dispensed charity, could immediately agree to become the godmother of someone's child. Never said no to anyone. Sometimes she stopped by to watch the guards' exercises and drank vodka with the soldiers. The day ended with a traditional party with friends. Then the night came. I've already said that I don't believe in Catherine's affair with Willem Mons, but after Peter's death, Catherine seemed to go back to her wild days. We scold Catherine the Great for having so many lovers, but in those days it was understandable. I think that in two years Catherine I had more lovers than Catherine the Great did. I'm not going to name names, there were many of them. Although I have to say, she always separated them. Some men helped to lead the state, such as Menshikov. Others, younger men, such as Sapieha or Baron Levenvold, were her lovers. She kept her private life and work separately. As a result, the Empress's health weakened. At court they said: &quot;The health of our Empress is so excellent that everyone knows that she will die soon.&quot; True, she tried to look young, tried to be a merry widow, but it only worsened everything. She smoked a lot. She used to smoke a pipe. She ate a lot. In general, the concept of healthy lifestyle didn't exist back then. And if she was inclined to corpulence in her youth, you can guess that she got monstrously fat in the end. On April 10, 1727, a little over two years after her accession to the throne, the Empress fell ill. She developed a fever, it was difficult for her to breathe. She had all the signs of a severe Lung Damage. She was getting weaker day by day. But she didn't stop smoking. Nowadays doctors say it was a severe lung abscess. A disease that cannot be cured without antibiotics even today. And back then there were no antibiotics. She was constantly coughing and spitting up blood. Her condition kept getting worse. As a result, after being ill for a month, Catherine died. The medical report said the following: "It was Phoebe and the lungs were damaged. And there was an opinion that there was fomics in the lungs. And from that, in great peace, the Empress passed away." Like Peter, Catherine put off the issue of succession to the throne until the last moment. Maybe she thought everything would work itself out. Maybe she wanted to get better. Or maybe she just hadn't thought about it. By that time, the relations between members of the Supreme Council and Catherine's associates had deteriorated to the extreme. Who took advantage of her death? The one who was always there - Menshikov. Literally a day before her death, he managed to break through into her chamber and sign a decree against his main high-ranking enemies, who were sent into exile on the same day. He was preparing for the takeover. Who was Catherine supposed to leave as heir? Probably her grown up daughters Anna or Elizabeth. Somehow, Menshikov convinced her to leave the throne not to her daughters, but to Tsarevich Peter, the grandson of Peter the Great. Moreover, that will had a number of additional conditions. The Empress died. Menshikov opened the envelope in the presence of the highest nobility and said that the Empress had left a will, a so-called testament. He read it out loud. All members of the Romanov dynasty and the main participants in the process signed it recognizing the will of the deceased. The will said that the daughters weren't ascending the throne. They received a lot of money, a one-million payment and a hundred thousand rubles annually. It was a lot of money. For comparison, the annual salary of an officer was one hundred rubles a year. Princesses were getting a thousand times more money than an army officer. What did the document say? That Grand Duke Peter was to become the successor. That was the first clause of the will. However, he couldn't ascend the throne. He could take the throne only after reaching a certain age. Which age exactly - it didn't say. There was a gap in the will in that place. I guess someone had to put a number there. Maybe Menshikov. Until then, the country was to be ruled by the Council, which included the two princesses and other members of the Supreme council, as well as Anna's husband. The main clause of the will concerning Menshikov was also announced. Tsarevich Peter had to marry one of Menshikov's daughters. The text of that amazing document, according to which the throne was given back to the Romanovs, was for some reason written in German. This says a lot about the morals at court and how far the courtiers were from the people. Later it was translated into Russian, but in an abridged version. Catherine for some reason didn't sign the text. It was signed by her daughter Elizabeth. She signed it in Catherine's name. In other words, she forged her signature. A real criminal story. The daughter signed that Russian abbreviated version for her mother. That version was read out loud. The German version was taken away. No one was able to find it afterwards. We don't know what was in it. Later, when Elizabeth became empress, she even arranged a search party list, trying to find Catherine's original will, but in vain. The result of this mystical story was the following. Menshikov became the de facto regent. Peter was supposed to marry one of his daughters. But he had a choice. He could choose either the older one or the younger one. Only then he would become a full-fledged ruler of the state. That was the intrigue. It became clear that the country would be ruled by the richest and most experienced person - Alexander Menshikov. If that had happened, we would have a male version of Cinderella. From baker to emperor. Catherine was buried along with Peter the Great. Although several years have passed since Peter's death, he was never buried. He lay in the cathedral in a coffin. Finally, Catherine was placed in the coffin. And together with their daughter Natalya, who died at a young age, three coffins were finally buried. Let's sum up. Russia was at a stop for two years. Everything that happened, happened by inertia. Let's sum up. Russia was at a stop for two years. Everything that happened, happened by inertia. The country was de facto ruled by a collective emperor. Menshikov, who was supposed to win the most after Catherine's death, became the regent. It's a pity. The country has wasted two years. On the other hand, a lot of nasty things could have happened if there had been a meaner woman instead of Catherine. Nothing nasty has happened. And soon there will appear a meaner woman. And then Catherine's reign will be remembered as the quiet and merciful one. In May 1727, after having ruled for a little more than two years, Catherine died, and Peter II ascended the throne. Let me remind you the story of his ascension to the throne. Catherine had been ill for almost a month. She made a will at the very last second. It was written in German. And while it was being translated, Catherine died. And there was no one to sign it. Therefore, daughter Elizabeth forged her mother's signature. It was a very bizarre testament. The daughters didn't ascend the throne. The grandson of Peter the Great - the last of the Romanovs in the male line - was to become emperor. The son of the almost executed Tsarevich Alexey. It wasn't clear when he could become emperor. There was a gap in the will where the age was supposed to be written. Until he became emperor, a secret Supreme council ruled for him. Moreover, Peter II was supposed to marry one of Menshikov's daughters. Thus, Menshikov guaranteed himself entry into the royal family as the father of the empress. Menshikov created the ideal situation to become a sovereign ruler. Nobody was perplexed by that will. Even with the forged signature. All members of the Romanov dynasty signed it to show their respect for the last will of the diseased. After them, signed members of the Supreme council. Then the higher spiritual hierarchs. Thus, the elite of the Russian Empire swore allegiance to Peter II and congratulated him on his accession to the throne. Although, guards were also in the picture. Just in case, Menshikov placed guards next to the palace. But they didn't interfere. It was a bloodless power transition. Let me say a few words about who Peter II was. It's going to be a short story, because it was a short period of history, which goal was to liquidate Menshikov. Who was Peter II and where did he come from? He was born in 1715. He was developed beyond his years. He was very tall, he took after his grandfather. Almost had a mustache. He was Tsarevich Alexey's and the German princess Sophia-Charlotte's child. She had many relatives among the reigning houses of Europe. And she was a close relative of the Austrian Empress. Peter was the second child, but the first boy in the family. His mother died 10 days after giving birth. She caught a cold, got sick and died. And Peter became the heir to the throne. Because he was the first in the male line. For some time, Peter, the son of Catherine, could also be considered the heir. But he died before he was three years old. His parents loved him very much, but he was developmentally disabled. Thus, Peter II became the only legal heir in the male line. In fact, he was supposed to be enthroned even before Catherine I, but it didn't work out. By the way, when people tried to enthrone him for the first time, after Peter's death, they had a very exotic plan. They wanted to connect the two branches of Peter the Great by marrying little Peter II to his aunt Elizabeth, Peter's daughter from Catherine. Thus a grandson in one line of Peter would become the husband of Peter's daughter in another line. And Peter always liked Elizabeth. One Russian TV-series portrayed their love very well. But it didn't work out. I guess it was a very exotic plan. I mean, Elizabeth was several years older than Peter. And Peter was only 10 years old then. However, eventually he became emperor. There is nothing to tell about his reign. It was like a merry-go-round of intrigue. What matters is that three months after he came to power, he overthrew Menshikov. Menshikov seemed to have achieved everything in three months. He finally became generalissimo. Earned a myriad of different posts and titles. Peter lived in his house, was under his direct supervision. He even called him dad. Menshikov decided where Peter could go, where he couldn't, with whom he could meet and with whom he couldn't, what he could eat and drink. He decided everything for him. And, probably, that excessive guardianship backfired. The boy grew up spoiled. He probably inherited all of Peter's vices. But whether he inherited any virtues of his grandfather is unknown. He began to constantly quarrel with his guardian Menshikov. They quarreled for two reasons: because of money and because of women. Peter didn't like Menshikov's daughter, whom he had to marry in the future. Her name was Maria. He wanted neither to meet her nor to go out with her. He liked other girls. It irritated Menshikov a lot. He began to impose his daughter on Peter even more. Peter tried to get away from her. That was the first reason. The second one - Peter, like all the Romanovs, lived not knowing how much things cost in the real world. People would come to him and give him, for example, 500 gold coins. He would say: &quot;Send them to my aunt Lisa, she needs to buy a new dress.&quot; Or people would give him a gift from St. Petersburg's masons. And he would say: "Oh, thank you. Give this chest of gold to my sister Natasha. She needs to buy some pins.&quot; And Menshikov was a sound steward. He was rich but greedy. In this case, I even feel sorry for him, because he was thinking about the state interest. He'd shout: "Hey, boy, return the money. This is public money. What are you doing with it?" And he would take the money away. Peter would get offended. And the third reason was that Menshikov had a lot of enemies. They all tried to turn Peter against his obsessive guardian. They told him that Menshikov killed his father. Of course, it wasn't entirely true. He only took part in the trial of his father, whom Peter the Great accused of high treason. They said that Menshikov was stealing from him. That he got rich at his expense, that he had accounts in foreign banks, that he took bribes. They used to say that he was the true emperor, that his young age didn't matter. They asked why that nasty guy, who was trying to marry off his ugly daughter, was running the country instead of him. They took him out for a drink, invited to go hunting, to meet some pretty girls. In the end Peter turned against Menshikov. None of this would have mattered if Menshikov hadn't been surrounded by tons of enemies. As a result, they turned Peter against Menshikov. And in the autumn of the same year, Menshikov got in disgrace. I'd like to take a break and say a few words about how Peter was taught. Since a note with his daily routine has been preserved. He was taught not as children were taught in the 19th century, as Catherine taught the future emperors. O.K. How was Peter II taught? Monday afternoon he had to study from two to three o'clock. Only for an hour. Then he had to train soldiers. On Tuesday and Thursday afternoons he had to walk the dogs in the field. On Wednesday he had to train soldiers. On Friday he had go hunting. On Saturdays he had to study music and dancing. He had to spend Sundays in his summer house. That's how the student spent his time. He hadn't been taught anything good there. At best, Osterman told him stories from Russian history. Then, in September 1727, a few months after ascending the throne, Peter II officially notified the Supreme council and the guards that from now on all instructions would be signed by him personally, and not by Menshikov. He disavowed his guardian. Before that, he issued a number of decrees that were written by Menshikov's ill-wishers. It was a phased disgrace. First, there was a decree on the relocation of the entire royal court from Vasilevsky Island, where Menshikov lived. Then a decree was issued on Menshikov's house arrest. Then a decree was issued to replace the commandant of the Peter and Paul Fortress. That man was very loyal to Menshikov and controlled the fortress. Then a note was received from Osterman about Menshikov's the fate, which the Supreme council read in the tsar's presence. That was followed by a decree on Menshikov's exile to Berezov. His property was confiscated. We are talking about 100 thousand serf souls. Souls were the main capital of that time. Pushkin, for example, had 200 serf souls, and he was considered a wealthy person. If only he hadn't played cards so much. About 13 million rubles were confiscated from Menshikov. That amount could only be compared with the budget of the Russian Empire. In today's money it's the annual budget of the Russian Federation. That's how much money was taken from him. Also, real estate and gems worth a million rubles were seized from him. And more than 200 pounds of gold and silver dishes. Menshikov spent the last days of his life on the territory of the current Khanty-Mansiysk district. Berezov was located there. Menshikov's wife died on the way to the town. Peter the Great's favorite. The courtier later recalled with bitter irony that he once worked as a carpenter together with the greatest carpenter - Peter himself. He used to say: &quot;I started with plain living - and that's how ill finish.&quot; He recalled this, because he didn't have a house in Berezov. He had to cut down a hut with his own hands. Then he built himself a small church. Every day he thanked God for giving him a reality check. He was no longer high and mighty. Menshikov died of smallpox when he was 56 years old. He was buried in the same wooden church built by his own hands. Many years later, a river washed away his grave, so now we don't know where he was buried. His daughter Maria, who was to become Empress, didn't outlive her father. Menshikov died in November on his birthday, and his daughter died a month later, also on her birthday. When she turned 18. Menshikov had another daughter and a son. The son's name was also Alexander. The daughter's name was Alexandra. 2 months after the death of Peter II, they returned from exile back to St. Petersburg. Alexander entered into military service. He rose to the rank of general and lived a decent life. Menshikov's great-great-grandson became the commander-in-chief of the Russian troops in the famous Crimean war. Menshikov's daughter married Biron's brother, who loved her very much. He was very sad when she died in childbirth. And so, the ally of Peter the Great, his dearest comrade, the builder of the navy of St. Petersburg, a courtier who earned many titles, the generalissimo, realized at the end of his life that he was a nobody. That he was a slave of the sovereign-emperor, who could turn him into dust with one hand motion and destroy his whole life. What did Peter II do after he did his biggest deed at the age of 12 and destroyed Menshikov? He amused himself. Peter II fell under the influence of the Dolgoruky family, the old princely boyar family. Ivan Dolgoruky became his best friend and had some kind of magical influence on him. The young man several years older than Peter became his best friend. They drank and hunted together. They moved to Moscow together. And basically, Moscow became the capital for a year. That's how it's always been - the capital was the place where the royal court was. So Moscow became the capital of the Russian Empire for a whole year. In Moscow, Peter II stepped aside from any public affairs. During his reign, he only once visited the meeting of the State Council. In Moscow, he spent time hunting and having fun with the Dolgoruky family, his beloved sister Natalia and Peter's daughter Elizabeth, with whom, according to our TV-series, he was madly in love. The Dolgoruky family became very powerful after Menshikov's defeat. In fact, all of his powers were transferred to the Dolgoruky clan. By the way, in the future that family suffered a terrible punishment. They had a terrible fate. They all received high positions, became members of the Secret council. Ivan Dolgorukov's sister became the Emperor's bride. Not Menshikov's daughter, but Dolgoruky's sister. They got engaged. By the way, it's pretty symbolic that after their betrothal, Katya Dolgorukaya got into a carriage with a crown on the top of it. The carriage drove off a little, caught on something and the crown fell right into mud. Then after a while the whole Dolgoruky clan will fall into mud. It's a tragic story. What happened at that time in St. Petersburg? Since the whole court moved to Moscow, Petersburg fell into disrepair. The palaces dilapidated, the paving stones overgrew with grass. It is said that one could even see wolves in the streets at night. Petersburg was saved by an energetic governor. Count Minich. He was sent to Petersburg into exile, but he started large-scale construction work there. He built the building of the Twelve colleges. Finished constructing the Peter and Paul Fortress. He fortified Kronstadt. Actively engaged in the building of the city. One can say he saved our city. Because if the city hadn't been taken care of for a year and a half, it would have come to complete desolation. Minich was the future field marshal who got famous for his phrase: "The Russian state has the advantage over others, because it's controlled directly by God. Otherwise, it's impossible to understand how it exists." I must say, a man who served in many European courts, was a colonel in the Prussian army, a general in the Polish army, and then a Russian field marshal, could allow himself to compare. And he couldn't understand how Russia was ruled. Except only by God. During the reign of Peter II, the fleet, his grandfather's favorite creation, fell into complete disrepair. Peter II didn't sail. He didn't care for sailing. It didn't interest him at all. He used to say: "I will use the ships when it's necessary. But I'm not going to sail, like my grandfather did." I think if Peter II reigned a little longer, the Russian fleet would disappear. The fact is that in those days the service life of ships was very small. Like that of a good car now. One had to repair it every two or three years. To temper it. To provide permanent partial replacement of the rotten underwater part. For example, the Petrovsky frigate "Standart", launched in 1703, had served for 16 years. He had only one tempering. Without it he wouldn't have served that long. The Baltic's climate made the service life of our ships shorter than of those in England. And if at the time of Peter's death the Baltic Fleet was quite impressive - 36 battleships, 16 frigates, dozens of galleys and hundreds of ships of smaller displacement - in the future new ships weren't produced at such rate. They weren't even repaired. So our fleet gradually rotted. Its combat capability reduced significantly. Three years after Peter's death, the Swedish ambassador happily reported to his government that the Russian fleet had fallen into ruin. That all the old ships have rotten. That the Russians could no longer operate more than 4-5 battleships at the same time. And that the construction of new ships stopped. Peter II abandoned St. Petersburg and, leaving the Russian fleet to rot, continued to have fun in Moscow. He was preparing for the wedding with Ivan' sister. The wedding was scheduled for the beginning of 1730. Peter died on the day when he was supposed to marry Catherine. The day before, he came down with the pox. Many people had smallpox back then. It was a massive illness. The mortality rate was high. But people said that the sooner a person gets smallpox, the better. Because it was easier to recover at a young age. Peter II didn't get smallpox at a young age. Menshikov was very worried about it. He took all possible measures to protect the sovereign from communicating with those who could be infected. So Menshikov provided a sort of quarantine. When Menshikov passed away and Peter moved to Moscow, the quarantine measures stopped. There was a smallpox outbreak in the house of one of the Dolgoruky. Nevertheless, Peter continued to hang out with the Dolgoruky family. As a result, the clan that destroyed Menshikov, destroyed Peter. And then destroyed itself. Peter fell ill with smallpox. January 1730, having come to his senses in the middle of the night, he said: &quot;Prepare the horses, I'm heading to my sister Natalya.&quot; Sister Natalya had already died by that time. After those words, Peter II died. He left no descendants or heirs. This unlucky young man was the last of the Romanov's in the male line. Peter II was the last of the Russian tsars to be buried in the Archangel Cathedral of the Moscow Kremlin. Sure, according to governor Minich, Russia was ruled by God. But it still needed a tsar on earth. And there were no candidates. So it was necessary to find some close relative. She was found abroad. Her name was Anna. She was Peter's niece. She became the new ruler of the Russian Empire. And she ruled for the next 10 years.