MACISTES, THE GLADIATOR OF SPARTA The rooster is unfriendly. He looks like someone I can't stand Someone died a long time ago, The Rooster awaits your decision, - Which fighter, the tan or the blonde? - So? Very good, well done! The fighter is a coward! The rooster is crazy when he runs away. Hail Caesar! Caesar is pleased with the victors, Another challenge awaits you. If you're going to win, reward and two acres of good land. But to compensate, And this is none other People are going crazy. If he's going to win, popularity I don't think they will survive I hope he wins one more time. He is strong and faithful Besides, how can a gladiator Olimpia is right. - Love is blind, my dear. Hail Caesar, Cheers, my friend. If you win, I'll wait for you at the palace, your proposal, as a first As long as the food is good, the wine is good I have an excellent idea, Sifface. Amazing, reminds me of myself I don't know anything better And I wish I had the neck of a giraffe, I drink in your health, - When can I see you again? - You know I want you! - When ? I can give you everything. And strong, so be careful! I am not afraid of your threats. you don't protect me - I was afraid you wouldn't like me. Complete power and beauty, I admit that I started well. I'm waiting for you at my house - When? Your wait will be short. - Applause and glory to Caesar. Applause and glory invincible in the arena - Applause and glory. Sifface didn't drink. Clear, It's true. I'm sorry that what You heard. Leader of the Praetorians I don't blame him. Power always wins. I have to say Sifface, that - ... it didn't work. But there is one thing that did it It's true, and I ask the gods to continue Challenge him, Sifface. Who knows, - I'm ready, Caesar. If your words are not a Are. I ate a lot, - How do you want to fight? Did you hear, Sifface? I have already chosen. I don't want to beat him unless we use the same weapons. You talk too much. Choose the weapons And let's begin. - I'm ready ! We will fight blindfolded. Very good ! I don't have all the gods Great, let's get started. Nice shot Sifface, Be careful Maciste, he can see! - I expected that. Maciste is brave and Sifface that puts me to sleep - Why are you following her? Leave her alone ! Thank you for saving my life. I thank God - How can I repay your help? Yes, but our religion does not - What are you saying? They were going to my house to catch me, Where am I ? They hide in a little house, Tell me your name so I can give it to you - My name is Maciste. - Can I see you again? But don't forget that we Christians You said you have to What happened ? No, Olympia. - Then what is it? Do not lie. I'm in love, For a while I was glad you were coming - Did something happen ? - Is it another woman? - More beautiful than me? I only saw her once. Since I saw her, I don't think about it anymore forgive me I understand, you are in love. I don't want to take, not even Why are you crying, mistress? I love him. I know many who would give their lives - But I love him! You should treat him I'm afraid if I treat him badly I'd rather be friends with him - Welcome, Maciste! I'm glad you came. They are my parents and - We owe you eternal gratitude. Yes, take place here. You are too tall to sit - I hope you like our place. - We hope he's alive. - But his deed is highly appreciated. - Don't worry about those beasts. - Because I found God. The only true God. The one who gives you strength to face Yes, because we believe in another life. I hope you don't believe what they say that we practice strange rituals, No, especially now Why don't you defend yourself? We fight and organize. Later, we meet the brothers Do you have weapons? - Yes, our bishop, Marcello. Preacher? You think they will protect you - Our law is called love. Praetorians can come, to search. - May God protect you, Maciste. I love you. If your law I don't reject you! Wait. I'll be back soon! - Do I have orders to arrest you? I'm surprised you don't know. You killed - It was against defense! Caesar has ordered your arrest How does one know that the woman The Praetorians were following her and got me That's what you say, Maciste. Anyway I'm sorry, Maciste, but anyone - Being a hero, you shouldn't abuse. And justice means death. True, but an emperor Tonight you will face the test If you manage to pass this test, - I'm ready. You wouldn't be, if you knew what - Look, he has no weapon. Look what a monster! What a shame, it's over. Not yet, Caesar. We have a show, right? He doesn't realize that as well Well done! My great Gladiator. - Yes, thanks to my opponent. Ask for what you want? Tell him, Appio Siculo, You passed the truth test, You are the holder of an award, whatever you choose Do you want my village Anzio? The most beautiful girl in Rome? You can also have the death of one - Anything, Maciste! - Someone's death? Since your generosity is great, - That of the Christian woman. No, but I want your kindness which does not deserve to be labeled - What do you know about her? Agree. Christianity is yours. - You can make her your slave. - Now he's leaving. Don't miss the party. I'm hungry! The Lord took the bread and broke it, saying: &quot;Take, eat. This is My body.&quot; Then he took the wine, saying: &quot;Drink of it all of you. How many times do you do this? In the Name of the Father, of the Son, Stay ! Quick, let's go back. Come around me. If he wants to put I know little about But I'm ready to sacrifice everything You already received it! excuse me God ! I heard about you! - They say you are strong like me. A single Christian. His enemy - Dalmoto? - And we call him the same. - Yes, that's right. I saw him. He may have swallowed it Over there ! Do not fear when your faith weakens. Remember the traitor who after killing many, Tigellino, they cut out his tongue, And Chilone Chilonide kissed - What made him change his mind? All facing the wall! - Who are you ? Then you and your people are We are not enemies either but if your duty is to arrest us, As for you, I have orders to leave you - He betrayed us. Not true ! Listen Silvia, I only asked Cezar Caesar may dispose of my life, - What do you say, Silvia? Wait ! Quick ! Let's go. Faster. - Hail Caesar! - The cook got sick. - Someone cut off his head, Caesar. - I don't see Maciste! Where is it ? - There it is. I'm glad to see you alive. I want to know if it's true - It's true, Caesar. You can choose another woman, Thank you, Caesar, but I don't want to You're disappointed, aren't you? No, but I admit I was And what made you to What I saw and heard. He practices some rituals and I believe Christian almost convinced me that must turn the other cheek. You will actually see her again I think so, Sifface. I'm going to lie down - That's if Caesar allows me to. You will see your Christian, when it will be I won't miss the show. Wake up! - Quick ! Thank God. I was sure Your mother used to give you hot peppers, They put Bishop Marcello Don't worry, we will release them too in Consul Marco's Iberia, Meanwhile, you will hide - I knew I could trust you! What a beautiful evening! How is the warehouse construction going? It will be ready for the next one - Greetings beautiful! - Beauty bows before glory. An honest young lady, Accept this chicken leg, Greetings Caesar. I need to talk I know the problems. Who needs it You are more beautiful than ever Caesar, it is my duty to protect - Me ? - Who threatens Rome? I disregard the law of Rome by why don't you catch them What use to catch them, to save the Christian We know how blinding it can be loyalty and faithfulness. - He helped the prisoners. There is someone else who could - He's the prime suspect in this. Glad to see my loyalty Yes, if he didn't run away too. Don't worry, I'll find it, even Forgive me, Caesar! Why turn the Empire upside down, at this moment He came to my house last night, when i left home If Maciste was in Olimpia's house - Is what you say true? Yes, why would he lie? It's a hard blow for you. I'm glad I have Maciste It's getting cold. I'm here to thank you. I'm happy for everything You saved my life. Your noble feelings, deserve the sincere love that Because you gave it to someone else. Yes. - The Christian you helped to escape? The gods were with you, Make sure you always have an alibi. This time everything went well, You, because you love a Christian woman, An alibi? Yes I agree ! Wake up! - Hello, pigeons. Caesar, when are we going to assist? - Who says that ? Brutus Ebazio. Brutus Ebazio, I love you. Brutus Ebazio is right. Be careful, friends, we will have - Hey, Sifface? We have Christians to offer them Yes, Caesar, around 20, That's it ! In a few days, Call the guard in charge, By all the gods, I don't want to be - Are you in charge here? If I did not carry out Caesar's order, - What order? For the arena? Now ? The emperor gives a banquet and someone - Hasn't Centurion Rufo arrived yet? That won't save you. - Put all the Christians in the wagon. Escort them to the arena. Okay, Centurion, okay. I understand ! - Where are you ? - Is my work done? Now go! Is everyone here? Caesar wants them - Yes, they are all, Centurion. There's one more. What the ? Do you have a woman's heart? - Okay, Centurion. Okay, Centurion. You, come with me! They are all, Belt... In the wagon with you. Forgive me, Sifface. All the Christian prisoners in the dungeon What are you saying, idiot? He didn't escape A Centurion presented himself all the Christians, quickly, in the arena. and fled with the prisoners. No one can beat five guards! - The caretaker is here. We can ask... But Caesar heard! It's your fault. That dungeon wasn't supposed to be I swear to find the person responsible, I hope so, otherwise it will be cut - That's it ? - To stay ? - Take it. - Why so much cruelty? A soldier should not be treated like Is right. It doesn't suit me like a soldier Maciste is right. Anyway, he betrayed me He didn't betray you, Caesar. She could pretend she knew him to avoid Sifface's wrath. How brave it is to hit a man The real traitor is the Centurion He must be punished. Again you are right. I will find it and bring it to you. Good. Very good ! Because the Praetorians are incompetent, Again Sifface, Come, Maciste! Caesar will wait a long time after that Why did you promise to find him? It's not in vain, especially since even Sifface will find it difficult Let's finish this topic. Come on. Look, we won't find it I spoke to your father and the others, What did they decide? - Don't leave Rome without Marcello. It is closed under the arena, - And what do you want to do ? Half a cup of - Three quarters of a cup. Half a cup for frying, - Won't it be too spicy? Maybe you are right. Pork bones and soaked meat and beans inside and thrush ovum, Splendid, splendid! After the banquet, we'll see if - Now leave! I have the gladiators who challenged - What is the punishment? put them in the arena, - Something else ? - Give it time! I am convinced that the fake Centurion Maciste will not find him, Sifface, be careful what you say! But lately, it's been bothering me that he is never wrong. Anyway, Maciste's time is numbered. and you are blinded by jealousy, I think I accept the risk. I just need named Marcello. One of the - Good. - Are you preparing a trap? Hide the horses inside. - Is Maciste's bathroom ready? Maybe yes maybe no. But not before sunrise, - It's a big risk, Mistress. Now he's leaving. Maciste. - How did you get here? There was an uprising in the school We were accused of murder - We are all condemned to death. We won't succeed, Maciste. Shoot, give in! Thank you, Maciste. You saved us - I am looking for a friend. Good. I'm looking for an old man named I am sorry ! It can be That's right. I heard screams Yes, it can be him. Stay here for now. If I need help, be there You two, guard the entrance And you, hide the guards. The water ! The water. A bit of water ! Thank you, whoever you are. - Courage! I am here to help you. Ilteo, help! Ilteo, block the door. Maciste, help me! Who are you ? Do not worry. I know you ! You are Maciste, the gladiator - You are a Christian ? Now let's get out of here. Escort this man Marcello, you know where I'm from. Hello Olympia. You waited for me without sleeping. I will not bother you anymore. I don't need an alibi Olympia? What happened ? - That's it, Maciste. She is dead. - She was your accomplice, and she loved you. Innocent? Finally, you admit it They are not murderers, you know that. - ... who teaches them to love and forgive. Do you want to kill me with this drink? I know it tastes bad Did you eat something rotten? How will I know ? It's your duty The taster did not report Maybe you have a cold, Caesar. - Did you call me, Caesar? You think I called you here My generals who do nothing, That's why I can't sleep. Don't worry about the gladiators escaping. Why don't you catch them all? That's what we do. and my guards search everywhere, Okay, Sifface, you have 2 days to catch them If you don't make it, I'll make you We can't stay here. It's risky but you have to Yes, Maciste. We owe you our lives We take risks for a reason. cross a friend in his ship to Iberia, Until the hate ends My men and I will escort you, Macy! Macy! Praetorians are everywhere. to ask God for courage to... - Okay, Dalmoto, keep an eye on him. - Are we safe here? We will delay the departure until - I look after the children. It's because of these Christian fanatics Why should we have the same fate? Let's arrest them, let's go up the mountain Effialte's word. - Effialte, miserable thief! Remain silent ! If we were smart we would be and the Praetorians would have stopped Shut up, Effialte! You are the one who wins, Maciste. I do not wonder that Effialte was He joined us in the dungeon, but you - Wait my friend, you are wrong! - We know how it is. It's as Sifface told you, Caesar. My life where I am Maciste, - You know what to do! Tomorrow you will be on your feet Maciste no, I want him alive. I have him in mind When will we be safe Then I will be able to cultivate fields, Sure, we'll get married first. Surely. Come over. Where does Maciste go hunting? We are here ! - What happened ? Let's get ready to go I have just come from the consul's road. I only saw a patrol on horseback, We will only leave at night The first group goes to Laurentina, Ilteo, divide people in two Marcello, you go with With the last one. A shepherd must As you wish! Let's go. Must Thank you, Maciste. You put it on in the service of our poor, Wherever your faith is, This may be our last For everyone's benefit, Marcello, Go and call them all. God gave you a wonderful man. That's what I'm gonna do, mom - Now get ready. I am going with you. We're gonna have trouble You know, Maciste. I'm serious. I'm not afraid of A great fear. You are not alone. I feel better now. In this way, from all the ends of the earth, for Yours is the glory - Through Christ, in all ages. Now gather your things. Let's go, quickly! Silvia. See you soon. Motion ! No, ordinary pigs! Maciste, be careful! It's time to go. You know, Maciste, I'm not afraid anymore i can see the light I think I'm going to Heaven. Maciste is not among the dead, - After me ! Slow down, take care! Slow. We arrive in the region. - At my brother's house, in Salina. Silvia, see you later. Quick ! Come on. Quick ! Here is ! don't kill him Maciste from Sparta, former gladiator By order of the emperor, in the presence of the people can't you talk You're going to die, you know? Wretched traitor, Unfortunately, we skip Especially for the dead. Let's go, traitor! God have mercy on you. pity me May God have mercy on me! At least you could tell Christian, the horses will pull you My God, help me! I beg you ! Let the show begin! Stop it! Arrest him! Then this God I want to know more I'm hungry! Maciste, the emperor has forgiven you. Come over. Look Silvia, look! It's Maciste!