[MUSIC PLAYING] "That feeling of a pop-up, It's a traveling show. You're just making it happen." "You feel that energy. You feel that excitement. Cooking one menu, one it's great." "We go to London. We go to LA. It's like, it's oh, 45 minutes. Reservations have been full it's done." "If we cook it, "I definitely I did a deeper dive on social I definitely need to know everywhere. There's something attractive always available." "Sadie and Anthony do and it works out "What they set out to do "I'll grab my laptop bag." "I've got to pack "Pack the car." "Got some shelves. A lot of schlepping. I think this is going I'm just going to bring the rest of my stuff. That's so funny, me Louboutins and you "You have a dust Nope?" "No. I'm Sadie Mae Burns-Ha." "Ah! Hi. I'm Anthony Ha." "We run Ha's Dac Biet, which almost restaurant." "Almost." "This is our Ha's sign. [LAUGHS]: Now we just use it want to set the vibe." "Ha's Dac Biet means -- Ha's my last name. Dac Biet means So it just means "We've described it as "Vietnamese home food." "In our Instagram bio, it sauce. That's the building "Yeah." "We are going to the Union It's the best of the best. They're really The days like, are always kind of We find a space that will them, building a menu, having pictures sent to us of we're working with." "And then you get there, the ingredient list." "It's usually The way that people eat our it on Instagram." "They just find "They come. You're putting on a show "Or week or a month." "-- by all means necessary, And it is never that easy. I mean, the schlep is Wake up. We go to the farmers market. We load the car. Usually, we're running "Hi. How are you guys doing?" "That's nice. Yay." "You use those? Say, you like these Now we're just looking." "I know. There's so much fun "We need a spider? These do." "They're like, so Best green beans "Hey, Donnie. How are you doing?" "Hi, Donnie. Best tomatoes in town. Can I get basil, Anthony? You've got the big plate?" "This is all us." "I'm going to get our stuff. Is that O.K.?" "Yeah. I don't know where Yeah. You got a bag? Nice to see you. Bye." "The floating No one floats like him. He floats like a butterfly "You guys mind telling "We're going to --" "We're going to Leo." "-- Leo." "Prepping for the greatest "So we were driving back from Shyan. That idea of him --" "To do a steakhouse night." "-- to do a steakhouse night." "Nothing is more monumental That's like the best thing "Go to a steakhouse." "So we wanted to do Steakhouse, why did "No one's ever done it before. Because it's a dumb idea." "It's not a dumb idea. It's a great idea. In different pop-ups, we've menu." "It'll change depending on to cook that day, what "We like, can't do We get restless if we feel to experiment "This is the whole menu?" "I like to start." "We still need sides." "You want to say bistro We're realizing this menu Only because there's There's a little --" "Of what?" "-- keep you on your toes." "I don't think anything It's just cooking. Cook the meat. Sauce the meat. See you later." "Noah says, how many people before or after the wedding?" "Tell him we have a couch." "This is going to be restaurant talk, We're getting married Planning the wedding has job." "We met in 2015 at I was a dishwasher, and then and needed a hair tie. Had a hair tie malfunction, "And we very quickly We just love doing Like, we just both have --" "I think we came close No?" "Totally." "We were exploring, eating "Work." "-- work. And we were like, what can we call time? And we'd just like, "Yeah." "Before work." "We don't like to sit We don't sit still." "No." "Anthony, Shy!" "Yes, Sadie?" "Let's go over the prep list." "He's worried about "Why?" "Because the fryer and we've got to do fries." "But we're frying Every table is going to get They normally do but we're going to Celery, pickles, Leo's making their focaccia, for that." "When was the first and how did that come about?" "The conception of it was "The conception of it was watching Chinatown carts, just vending. And as a line cook, six of disgruntled, whatever. I'm just kind of like, why and rice cart? 2017 or 2018, it wasn't that food, and there definitely noodle dishes and the banh "We had recently Anthony's family is from which has the largest people outside of Vietnam. So the food out And even if you go to Philly, than has previously And so we knew that there was It's personal, and it's our food. Our food feels and it reminds them of --" "Tastes like home." "Yeah." "It's like, well, my "Yeah. That is the best and that is the goal for us." "This would be a This was in front of Foray. We had baskets and little --" "Sadie would bake a galette." "[LAUGHS]: It was so crazy." "This is on the street. People would just buy "Yeah." "People would line up. From the beginning, people They were like, And then they would for a sandwich." "Because we were so slow." "Because we were I mean, we learned "First opportunity to do a was Vinegar Hill House. That was January 2021. So restaurants, at the "No one was allowed to "So we used their back patio." "We used their back patio. It was literally snowing." "People were outside, eating pho. That was the first time that to eat our food. Hannah Goldfield wrote Anthony Ha and Sadie Burns, kitchens until a pop-up offering for delivery or by home cooking, their and whatever That's still pretty much it." "That's still it." "So that made people Then we went to Frenchette, attached to it. We did take out there. And then there was a 'New York out. It was no longer just like, It was our business "One day, Sadie finds Early we host traveling chefs. Making Paris happen." "Guess we're going to Paris. We've been to Paul Bert in --" "Montreal. Paris, London." "Mexico City, LA. We have established little Another restaurant you should do it here. And then we'll say, O.K. We of being on tour. It's a traveling show." "It's kind of fun." "And it's --" "It's like a show." "-- totally "Yeah, you get tired of it. But again, we get used to it, There's no other so it's a necessity to do it." "We're somewhere in between cooks, at this point. And we had to make a decision. We do things a certain way, slightly new systems, but already exist in And each one has their own and ways of doing things, Where did you say Different equipment shortages. You don't know Then you pivot, pivot. Sometimes, that's Maya, what's my mood "You wouldn't see it, but "Yeah." "-- O.K. We're going "We work with such and they're also our friends. And so it would be stupid the whole time. But obviously, it Like, tomorrow is going to be It's going to be We're doing all the It won't be a Do we want the huevos?" "Do we want it?" "I don't care." "Well, yes or no?" "Shy, what do you think? When you order a wedge, are of eggs?" "Not really." "O.K. No eggs." "Reality is that it took to separate the emotion the emotion of and that's the But I think we've gotten of things." "Sadie and Anthony, I They don't hide All their food is like, down the middle "Yeah. I think punch it "I think the pop-up model as a menu as they want." "So you blend So I'm just going to saute "One big night, three big nights in ways have, and can and cook all the "My name is Mike." "Hey, Mike." "I own Leo Restaurant We love doing events here, and of the week. So it's really fun for us come. Whenever they call, "So we went pretty of our favorite steakhouses. Oysters Rockefeller, in the butter. We cannot do that without." "They have such They never put out food that Shrimp cocktail. Cocktail sauce is We take all these peppers down." "Part of the draw for pop-ups thing, or a two night thing. It makes it more of an event. You feel that energy. You feel that excitement. Cooking one menu, one it's great." "It's going to Thank you, guys. I'm mostly feeling like I focus, because this is a we're prepping for, and a lot coming, and blah, blah. It's hot in here." [CLASSICAL MUSIC] "Fully booked here." "I mean --" "O.K., so I'm And what I need is some Maybe we try to put the Let's work six burgers, Shy. Fiorella, can I have No, I don't need What I need right One to table one with this Is there a lobster coming? Two more ribeye." "I got a ribeye here and "Just fire the other one." "Vanilla ice cream, chocolate Lemon meringue pie. Oh my God, lemon "This is all the people that which is substantial." "You're the absolute best!" "It's really good." "220 people tonight. I believe that's the most service, like, one pop-pop." "Order in, hanger, burger. Uno wedge." [CHATTER] "Over the years, we've faces, and we have regulars. And that is the most special "Totally." "Recognizing --" "A pop-up with regulars?" "-- and people who we don't "We went when it was on the restaurant space." "Like, Forsyth Street." "They go to all these but they still maintain like, "It's always really hard She got one like, three online." "We love their food. We run a pop-up and we're also a couple. And --" "Yeah, so they're a big that work." "Why did you guys decide that pop-up?" "We signed the I don't think people have we're capable of yet because that's completely ours yet. And it's run itself out. We've known for a while. We've felt it for a while." "The tour is the tour." "Yeah. We want to focus The goal has always been and so we're shifting gears. Like, we don't want to "We're thinking that the bar and then runs along to for the bathroom. It's a bar. It's a snack bar. It's wine. It's small plates." "I think it's a new They have to now execute it every single That's like, very different "To me, this kind of seems their efforts in a really "I expect their menus to "It's hard to imagine them the world. It's the end of a chapter. If anybody's going to do it - [LAUGHS]: "What is this place "Ha's Snack Bar. The goal is to have "On plates." "Stamped." "Waiting to see." "I can picture now." "I know." "Congratulations." "Thank you so much." "Thank you." "How's the new space going?" "You should see it." "Can you believe it? Have I seen you since?" "You know we signed a space." "I know. That's what it said." "Yeah. We're opening a restaurant. And then we'll probably a little more seating here. All this is out. And I'm going to put a new what is necessary. Bring down that shelf. Knock out the kitchen. Gut it so that we can "And then this "Yeah." "-- it's too small." "Where's that going? Is somebody stealing?" "This has been my I knew in high school. I mean, it's beyond my wildest with my husband. Um," "Fiancee." "Fiancee. Soon to be husband. Husband to be." "[LAUGHS]: I'm going I'm going to go get All right. We're good. This video is really [LAUGHS]: I'm getting and then we're getting It's all happening. It's hilarious." "Our motivation is that "Totally. We'll be cooking at home." "We have to -- totally. We have to do this together. It is our love language --" "Love to cook." "-- with each other." "Yeah." "And then we get to build "Thanks, Flynn, They're Incredible. [HUMMING]: You guys have "I'm sorry." "I keep [BLEEP]: "Hard to manage. I told you." "Yeah. Should we go?"