*Ian proceeds to delete a pickup truck* *Faint* Hi guys, thanks for tuning in to another I'm Ian, and I am here with a pretty cool gun that has been provided for this video by Modern This is a GE M134 Minigun. And I'm sure but I bet a lot of people don't really know So a little bit of background on this thing. These were And the reason that they are called &quot;Miniguns&quot; they scaled it down from a 20mm aircraft and at that point it becomes Now actually development goes back But in fact experiments with electrically powered Gatling guns, You can in fact find, it's really cool, you can talking about Gatling guns with electrical power firing at Literally as fast as they fire today The reason is an electrically driven motor will Now the obstacle back in ... 1900 was And where these guns were considered, at that time period was as naval you had a turbine always running that was providing At that point you didn't have vehicles driving And certainly you can't run this as an and in 1900 you don't have electricity So they were never really successful at that And at that point they were never belt fed, Broadwell drums or some other And at 3,000 rounds a minute If you're gonna run this effectively And that's what we have in this, and that's So power-wise these things run on 24 volts DC. ... Now your power consumption depends on your rate It's not recoil operated, it's not gas operated, So it'll run at whatever rate of fire you 3,000 to 4,000 rounds a minute is gonna be You're not getting that with AAs or CR123 batteries, And that's one of several reasons why being carried around and fired from The first reason it's bogus is because ... the guy's not The second reason it's bogus is he's not at 3,000 rounds a minute you're [Note: These guns typically run between 3,000 and 6,000 rpm ... You'll go through a lot of ammo and ... you And of course the recoil force, you're talking literally This is equivalent to firing your .308 rifle adding all that recoil up and delivering it to the shooter. Now originally these were aircraft armaments, And they were fantastic in that role. That's where you can stick this thing on a nice fixed mount, the ammo just goes in a couple you can plug into the helicopter's And the real advantage of this, the reason that when you're flying past someone you have a And so ... the better the gun was, the more lead it could deliver to the target in that one This is something that you'll also For example, a ground mount Browning The aircraft version, they make a bunch of changes because again, you have these very short you need to put as much lead downrange during that Alright, so the way that these actually work is We have a barrel cluster. We have the actual power source, and really in some ways the most important element So this gun is fed via a standard belt of And what you have to do is have a and then feed them into the So I've taken a cover plate off here so we And what we have are 6 barrels (... depress this), you can see that the barrels rotate through but right here is where they're closing with a And then the bolt gets cammed backwards So we're getting a feed down in this area, comes up, chambers, And then extracts and ejects. And So the firing mechanism, in some ways it's not that complex, and it's actually What makes it different is the delinker. Alright, so this is a separate delinking mechanism, and So what we have going on here is right here So when this is on the gun it's gonna be kind of in this But what we're looking at here is And what we have to do is actually push the cartridges So most machine guns pull the cartridge out the back, And it's going to be hooked up to the motor by this gear. (And we can see it best...) OK, so right up in there, at the top of travel, you can just What's gonna happen is rounds come in here. At the top and then we come to this side. They get And what's interesting here is this spindle actually holds So when a cartridge is first stripped off the And it's then going to go all the way this, it's kind of like a snail shaped surface here. So when the cartridge goes down it's it's riding on top of this surface. And right So the best way for me to demonstrate So there is no firing pin mechanism in it, And it would be a little bit better if I had these on links, but I can manually cycle it with my thumb if they're just So I put a couple rounds in there, and then I have Put a couple more in there, fill it back up. Now if we look down here we're So there's our first projectile coming through. (Put a couple more in there.) And as I said, it's going to come up inside here. So these cartridges are in the bottom of this (boy, I don't know all the terminology for this gun), at the (and if I don't get them jammed up, there we go), Now you can see we have and we've got another one Just in time this one comes up, now it can actually come out. It's sitting on And right in here ... the delinker hands this And that is how your Minigun feeder, or delinker works. When ... the rounds are pushed out of the links, kind of directed away from the rest of But that's where the links will come out, and we'll So the trigger mechanism here. Being that this is an electrically A bunch of different stuff going on. We have And then a safety switch, that And of course when you knock this The light just confirms that you have power You can fire the gun with either one of them, And then interestingly you have another one here. This button is actually set up to connect to your if you're you know, in a Humvee or something that has It's the equivalent of And what this allows you to do is keep both Which is important when you're the Alright. So firing procedure: Light's on, although you can't see it in One of the interesting side effects of the barrels don't just stop the ... The motor stops, and then the barrels You do want to make sure that you don't have, say, all of your right, so you don't have, you know, 50 or 100 rounds dump And that is done in one of two ways. The original And with those you would actually lose about They would spit out the ejection port. And the reason The more modern way, which is to actually put a clutch on the thing And with a Dillon clutch on it you don't lose any So, you know, I can fire like a one second burst ... A little more than a one second spin down. When you're actually shooting these, something quick repeat taps of the trigger. So give it a moment to spin down before you fire it When these guns do jam it's primarily this guy, And you don't want to have to pull this thing apart to In general firing these give it a burst. It doesn't have to be a long Alright. Before we can shoot it, we have to load ... What this does is simply guide the belt and prevent ... there is a cloth cover on here to This just keeps everything nice and clean. Then this is our ammo can. And this is, I believe, And we can take the lid off, and you've got it divided into 1,000 round continuous belt all loaded in here Now we're gonna load, ... I think So we're not really gonna need to mess with this, What I'm gonna do here is pop the top of this, and ... this funnel is here so that you and the belt will slide into the centre We've got a plastic nice So put our feed chute on, there we go. Lift up the top cover. As with US military machine guns we want the [feed] that in there What's kind of cool about this is, because I can actually push this belt and it'll push Alright, I can see the end of ... the just a little bit of belt left, which has gotten bent. So it is important on a Minigun that because that will ... will jam up the delinker. So I'm gonna put a loose round in that trailing Because I have so little belt down in the can, I don't It just barely even hits the bottom of Lock it down. Now we're ready (There we go.) Rotate the barrel till OK. Now by pinning this in place which I have to do to manually feed the belt in at first. You want to make sure that everything goes in perfectly straight and So we've got it all the way up, I'm rotate the barrel cluster counter-clockwise, And pull that first round up until I hear a click. So maintain pressure, make There's our second click. Now the delinker is holding (I'll go ahead and put this back in place.) And now I want to continue to click the barrel cluster through Now we're going to continue to click this through Once that happens we'll know that the belt is all the Very important now we remove the pin ammo will continue up into the barrel cluster As long as the clutch is engaged here, now the cycling the belt up and in until ... You saw the second link came out, now we're And I can click the barrel around as much as I want, because At this point however, the gun is hot. And as soon as you turn on power and press the ... trigger Alright, here we go. Master power on. That was a little high. And that's 100 rounds. So, there isn't an ... optic on this [particular] And the trickiest part about that is it You have to be pretty fast to pick up, With a regular machine gun, 500 well, OK, you know, dag dag dag With this thing, by that time you've So you have to get some pretty Which means that I need I normally don't shoot at goofy targets like old trucks, but the Minigun is kind of a different beast So I'm gonna see if I can actually hit that. We're gonna start low, bring the [Probably shouldn't have put the Well, I was hitting it there. Shall we go So as a guy without a whole lot I was able to successfully perforate the snot And I think there is going to be an attempt to set by the fact that the gas tank is now also thoroughly So I'm gonna stay a little It is interesting to note that that rate of because you have so little time to track your So we can take ... a little bit of a real-world namely you'll notice that I have bullet holes pretty a bunch here on the front, blew out that tyre. we've got a lot of bullet holes coming out the back, Got two there in front of the tyre and one clearly but, while I wouldn't say there is any safe you'll die a little bit later if you Thanks for watching guys, I'd like to really thank Modern Arms out of Tempe, show you guys how it works, and show Tune in again to ForgottenWeapons.com