A group of people the Inuit people. They all love fishing. They are European but not European at the same time. They make clothes to survive the extreme cold. Temperatures reach 50 below zero. We went on a trip with a fisherman This is... the largest island in the world, Greenland. We arrived at a city Ilulissat, which is the most visited city because of the presence Icebergs are present all year round, and are formed by the calving Hello, guys. We are in the north. We had to come to the north. The further north you go the colder it gets. This is one of the coldest cities The name of this city means &quot;iceberg.&quot; In the local language, it means &quot;iceberg.&quot; This is the hotel, and this is the view. Just ice. It's all frozen rocks. This is one My hands are freezing I'm wearing five layers of clothes. You can see the icebergs here. As you know, it was an iceberg This is the real Greenlandic experience! They have only one cafe and some hotels. Look at this view! Look, there's a curtain so the neighbors can't see you, but the ceiling is left uncovered You can also see the aurora borealis. They say these cabins are the only ones You can take a shower here with this view. Unfortunately, there is because they always feel or less valuable The entire island is covered in ice and people live on the outskirts. All cities are located That's why there is not Glory be to Allah! This is the first time and he told me there are more If you want to escape come here and enjoy the tranquility. Despite the extreme cold, all schools here are warm. They belong to Denmark, but at the same time they are not Danes because their origins aren't from Denmark, Denmark somewhat occupies them. Greenland! I feel like I'm in a Japanese school. Hotel Arctic. This is the hotel we're staying at. I'm struggling to realize What is this city? You can go around the entire city but its beauty lies in admiring... its icebergs. Now we're going fishing 4 hours away from here. It's very windy This is how they all live, I had a complete makeover. Look how I look. It's incredibly cold, the temperature will drop to -30 degC. We are going fishing now. Look at how they live here, they say this is made of seal skin. Everyone here feels warm It's a large yard filled with huskies. It's fast, no joke! This reminds me of Siberia. It's freezing! Look at the icebergs around here! The camera turns off every two minutes. All this to find food. No! This is our destination, We will stay there for 6 hours... to pull the fish out from under the ice. They say that the hook reaches His son is helping him. Look at fish, they are everywhere. They say it will yield huge numbers They will get more than 100 kgs of fish, This is... a fish graveyard. The more you pull the rod, due to the amount of fish. They brought coffee with them and they just set up this tent The first fish has arrived. He put the thread on the second machine. This is the first fish. You can see the fish from here. In the name of Allah. God bless. All this with one fishing rod. They set this rod 3 days ago and it's made up of over 100 baits They say there are still 100 more fish. There are plenty of fish. Now that they're done, they'll put the baits back in and come back to them in two days. A month from now, this entire area will turn into icebergs You won't be able to walk here, There is a sea beneath the ice. They have been fishing inheriting the profession It turns out so they will not sell the fish but in their restaurant. They have a chain of restaurants, more than one cafe, and boats. They are rich, God bless, and yet they come This is something in their blood This fish is called halibut. He's putting the baits back on. Look how many there are. This fishing rod has many threads. They will bury this fish so that the birds don't eat it. They took a specific type of fish today and will come back tomorrow for the rest. He will take the rest... to his restaurant. Here comes the transporting stage. They say this so cars cannot come here, not even snowmobiles. They come here almost every day. Today they invited me and said, His son is a university student, so after he finishes fishing, It is truly an unparalleled experience. Lastly, they left some fish for the dogs, because it turns out that dogs don't run so they only feed them In this documentary, I used sound effects and music to convey the emotions I got from this place. You have the option and you can choose stems from the music and make dramatic music and then happy ending music. Click on the link below. Thank you, Epidemic Sound.