A few kilometers from the pyramids, A French archaeologist is on the verge - I'm coming to see you right away! - Come on, hurry up, don't dawdle! These workers have just removed currently completely filled with sand. - Under our feet, it can go down to 4, 5, 6... I don't know how many meters. So for now, I can only imagine. And when we discover what it is, there is something or there is not." This Frenchman, originally from Bulgaria, He has been digging in the desert of ancient Egypt. But discoveries like this, The archaeologist can count them Because this well It descends to a depth of ten meters, Suddenly, at the bottom, a cavity appears. This is what Vassil was hoping for. The entrance to a tomb -Currently, I don't see much. There's a chamber Thank you. That is--oh my God - Everything is decorated! It is beautiful! Abdou, look at that! Everything is downstairs. That's beautiful! Vassil has just cleared the entrance whose ceiling has partly collapsed. Based on their style, these patterns before Christ. Now, we can only dream! Is it a big moment for you? Yes, it is the first time we find a decorated room downstairs. The colors are almost intact after Now we are happy! Come on guys! But to discover the contents of the tomb, We're going to close with blocks and go break the blocks inside. We are temporarily implementing It's frustrating, but Vassil has no choice His name, as well as that of Abdou, the Egyptian inspector responsible are written on the wall It's a kind of signature, of-- When the thieves are coming, "I'm scared! It's Abdou, I can't touch him If he sees my name it's over.&quot; Heading for a destination and where archaeologists around the world Just like two months ago, who announces having discovered in Tutankhamun's tomb. It seems that one of these entries, leads to the tomb of Queen Nefertiti. Vassil, the French archaeologist, The bats are buzzing! Beneath the surface of the desert, he too hopes soon to discover a tomb Nobody went inside. It can happen once in a lifetime. But since the Revolution, Looting has become a daily occurrence. At the foot of the pyramids, thieves The police are overwhelmed. - Get up and come with me. - Because there is To protect its antiquities, where are currently being restored pieces For the first time, the entirety will be on display. Egypt is trying to keep but will it manage Because on the Nile, The few passengers rejoice. We have the impression For those who have the privilege completely authentic to the period, the experience is simply magical. That's the cherry on top! Exceptional trip, in search of the treasures Treasures, trafficking, and adventures, The pyramids of Giza One of the most famous landscapes However, this morning, including this small group Frankly, there's nobody around. We expect to see a crowd of people, Finally, you get there, You're asking yourself: It's weird but it's good, I think there are more guides In front of the Sphinx, than before the January 2011 revolution. A tragedy for Egypt, whose tourism But for travelers, it's a great deal That's what persuaded and to indulge in their dream vacation. As a child, I was perpetually captivated Finally, the whole civilization of this country. After that, it was not very expensive. EUR800 per week, all-inclusive. If tourists are rare, It must be said that the atmosphere At the pyramids, it's impossible not Or patrols on camelback. Today, 300 police officers secure Even the camel drivers who guide tourists and passed through the metal detector before being allowed For their first trip to Egypt, two students from Melbourne in Australia, did not expect such security measures. The bags inside the machine, please! And welcome to Egypt! And Gaby and Rebecca didn't notice it all. Specifically, armed with a submachine gun, who follows their group everywhere. He is advised to remain discreet How do you feel about having a man With a submachine gun concealed Is there a man with a machine gun Nobody told us about it. -He's right there. Hi, weren't you taking photos? We thought you were a local guy. No, he's a cop. -Are you a police officer? I thought they were dressed in white. I really didn't notice anything! Now we really feel safe! A few kilometers from the pyramids, south of Cairo. As with every day, makes his way to his excavation site. Vassil is one of the few archaeologists even during the worst moments To join his search, he went along to the site of Saqqara, Saqqara is the very large cemetery If we can compare it with France, The capital of the Pharaohs, at the location of this vast palm grove. Today, almost nothing is left. As for Saqqara, it is arguably in the history of the country. It was just across the street, where the first pyramids Vassil has been working Today, he is one on these secrets. It is a safeguarded, elevated in position. and that's why the kings chose here to be buried. If you think of Pharaonic Egyptian, It is the closest place to the sun. The Sun is their God, the creator God. If we want to join, that's where you have to go up. Vassil chose to set up his dig The highest point A construction site where is emerging the remains of tombs built over Buildings that the ancient Egyptians This morning, Vassil is going about ten meters below the surface Under his orders, about fifty workers but no one is allowed to enter the tomb You have to make as few vibrations there is a lintel on which So it should not break. This is the structure of the tomb A vertical shaft ten meters deep, which leads to the cellar Inside, the archaeologist hopes and possibly a mummy But before that, which is completely filled with rubble. At the moment it is impossible Soon, the top of the walls appears. Despite the sand, the colors are intact, and the first registrations Here, we're starting The king is the one for the god Anubis And it's at the end of this line, that maybe we'll get the name and titles Other offerings appear. These are the pots, and the jars Without these oils, That is clear! In Egyptian civilization, has magical power. These beef legs, for example, to eat in the afterlife. When we eat meat, we are strong, in the other life to be strong. Even today, people say it in Arabic. When you see someone strong, You say, "He eats meat." Vassil believes that these paintings they are however in a remarkable state You can even observe the mistakes made The archaeologist can now get He will try to find the hieroglyphs and the function of the person Now we can see the end Priest and reader, scribe, magician I think his name is Sabi. Yes, his name is Sabi. What does that mean? My protection or something like that. This character has just come back to life because we just said his name. It's exactly what they were looking for. For them, that was the resurrection, Imagine how important that is. Will our name be spoken today, 4000 years later, it is 6000. So no one will say my name or your name, nor that of the President of the Republic. Even as we just mentioned who was laid to rest here. And so he, on the other hand, exists. Rubble has accumulated They must be removed to avoid collapse. In the ruins, a surprise Remove the sand above. Objects are emerging. A small painted stone cover and I think it's a statue. Objects like that are quite rare. Because for it to be preserved You need a good, well-closed place. Otherwise, rotten wood. What is she doing there? It doesn't have to be there, It's on the ceiling or someone It must be placed! The tomb was therefore But as luck would have it, It's a small limestone pot. A very simple piece whose value in thousands of euros. All of these items were supposed to help They're simulacra vessels, but they represent 0ne, two, six, seven, eight, nine, ten jars. Now it's much smaller. with oils, with things like that. As for the statue, it probably represents But the upper body did not resist. Unfortunately, it's rotten. You can't move it. If you move it, it goes to dust. The lower body is perfect, It doesn't matter what can still be saved must be saved. Ali, the restorer of the mission, is called in to preserve sculpted over 4000 years ago. It is a product based on cellulose, Or it rotted over time and it's not well preserved. Or the thieves who passed by here, maybe they beheaded him, because they did not want They were afraid that the owner the one who is going to be resurrected-- that he sees--that he reports to Osiris, this thief, who also hopes who also hopes to be seen But Sabi is going to tell him: "No, he stole my grave, The statue, even very damaged, that were in the tomb For the archaeologist, Last step, Vassil and his workers They still have hope of finding maybe the remains of his mummy But unfortunately, nothing escaped the looters. Now things are clear. We find the skull under the stone, But what condition is she in? Does that make you sad? Yes, it's mostly for Sabi. That's what's left of him. Despite the tomb being looted, today's findings are exceptional. This completely painted tomb On the plateau of Saqqara. The other treasures he discovered under the surface of the desert, In a location that is not open to visitors Fifteen years ago, Vassil was lucky as a beginner. We are here with the first tomb and we were fortunate to instantly find A facade that dates from the Old Empire, and who will lead him to other tombs, All belong to priests. Characters who spent their lives Vassil, who reads hieroglyphs managed to get into the intimacy Here we have an Egyptian priest. He was in the service of a Pharaoh. We are in front of the facade of his tomb. It's his door, we're going in His name is Pepi I, It's a bit like today, if I want I'm going to call myself, That's exactly it. And that's exactly who he is. Next door is his wife. He loves his spouse But we have a small problem There is another woman, and she is called: &quot;The one that makes the heart come alive.&quot; That is the heart. That is the one that makes the heart And so I imagine, of course, that maybe she's his mistress. So the one who makes his heart It is everyone's dream. And this dream he wants to transpose it, he wants it These bas-reliefs that decorate They rank among the oldest on the Saqqara website. At the bottom, we have the well. And the tomb is at the bottom. A well nine meters deep, and a limestone vault which was empty This tomb was plundered during Antiquity. All these tombs are protected and via secure trapdoors Looting is now Vassil's obsession. The objects that the archaeologist Give me the first one. Vassil and Abdou must first It's a cover. The market value of all these objects They will soon be securely housed of the Egyptian Ministry of Antiquities. We record it, we photograph it, The object has an identity. Exactly it has an identity Once the object has been assigned Because it exists. The Saqqara Desert is therefore but also looters who are ready All around the dig, Abdou has spotted numerous traces Look at this hole. you're going to find them everywhere. Looters come and dig holes everywhere. They explore and then relocate You see, they also did In some places, it seems that the looters Look at that. Huge craters appeared on the hillside. Here, in ancient times, burial chambers The tomb robbers have arrived, They broke the rock Subsequently, they traversed They swept up everything that was inside. According to Abdou, the looters than some inhabitants located below in the palm grove. As proof of this, Abdou points to the wild extension of the local cemetery, who suddenly invaded the desert right in the direction of the pyramids. What you see there, which were built by some local residents When there was a mess Aren't these real tombs? For the vast majority, They build a room, a ceiling, a door, and when they're inside, They are in fact clandestine excavations, In the alleys of the cemetery, there are even very recent traces Just like here, where they used Ordinary people have become obsessed They tell themselves which they can put in their pocket, is going to make them millions. In any case, today in Egypt, In Saqqara, the plundering extends It can also take on This evening, is ready to act. I have the machine gun. Give me the bulletproof vest. These 20 heavily armed men They were alerted by an informant, who spotted suspicious activity located just on the edge We block all the exits so The most important thing Ok, boss! After a few minutes of driving, the police enter the streets Today we know on the remains of a suburb of Memphis, the capital of the pharaohs All digging is prohibited there. The police target is Inside, an old man is saying his prayer. What do you want? Calm down, we have a warrant I am not opposed to the search. -Is your name Mohamed? Get up and come with me. Why? Because there is a clandestine crowd here. -But this is not my home! No, sir. My house goes up to the wall. Behind, that is not my house. All right, it's fine. I need police here. Come on, put on your sandals The informant who notified the police It's in the other room. In the back bedroom, a well was dug Careful, back off. It's a very well-hidden He put this metal cylinder because under pressure, But the construction site had According to our information, he ultimately arrived He could not continue because and his pump broke down. He couldn't afford a second pump, to buy the house as it is 20 million pounds, Gold fever has taken hold They didn't discover anything? No, they didn't release anything. Thank God we were able And here's the proof that the looters These cut limestone stones and which have nothing to do In the next room, the search continues. Here is the dirt They carried him here Did they store it here to be discreet? Yes, exactly. Now, we will have to sort to see or stones that could give us information Go ahead, I'll catch up with you. We're not handcuffing you, It's a humbling way to get out Leave me alone! We're just going to ask you The owner is arrested the only other man in the house. Both could face up I am not a criminal. The house is going to be confiscated While awaiting the exploration these small looters who dream of fortune Organized trafficking networks, remain largely unpunished. In Egypt, Even museums The famous Tahrir Square, This is where the revolution started, and it nearly eradicated the Museum of Egyptian Antiquities. In this building, built in 1902 are on display the most beautiful jewels starting with Tutankhamun's treasure. In January 2011, the Cairo Museum Night is falling in Tahrir Square, the situation When live on television, a man is going to sound the alarm. I'm with the director Khaled Youssef, right next to the museum. He is afraid that this group in the museum to plunder it. I am asking the army to come immediately to protect it. Khaled Youssef is a movie director Thousands of Egyptians I urge people not to adhere and to hold the ground No matter if they hit us, If our museum is attacked, that took place in Iraq during the war. Immediately, a human chain For fourteen days, to stand guard. -Are you there to protect the museum? And you've spent the entire day here? Yes, and last night too. Four years after the Revolution, that made him a hero. A reputation that regularly leads to him It was here that I had Most of the people who call me They tell me, "We saw you on TV You were the one who cried saying, These are the wonders 160,000 objects discovered Statues, funerary furniture finely sculpted Mummies or royal jewelry All these treasures are exhibited where the security situation over a century ago. The windows are wooden, and the glass isn't even shielded. I was there at the time I saw you on TV. This is the museum's chief caretaker. When Khaled Youssef launched his appeal, he and his team in the museum shop. As depicted in these CCTV footage. The security chief to access the exhibition rooms, through the roofs. They went in that way. Where is it? Up there? No, they used telephone cables. They fell here, on the window. And as a result, one was injured. Do you see the blood trail here? Thieves break several windows, and take away 52 items of high value, like these gilded wooden statues broken into several pieces. Some have been completely restored. A few meters later, the looters which is home that of Pharaoh Tutankhamun. There is gold there. Here, there are neither reinforced doors When the museum closes you close both doors On the day of the looting, to save 11 kilos of pure gold Also in the room, two golden sarcophagi were safeguarding the mummy As well as numerous jewels found The only Pharaoh in history, whose grave remained undisturbed, until its discovery in 1922. Imagine what the world would think. If Tutankhamun's mask, a room that was more than How could we have justified ourselves for not having been able The police finally arrested and recovered more than half of the pieces To protect its archaeological heritage, Egypt has launched a gigantic project. Every week, a convoy leaves In this box of Pharaonic antiquities, who will discreetly cross the city. Escorted by a dozen police officers, Head to the New Grand Egyptian Museum, currently under construction A project worth nearly one billion euros, For what in the world. 600 meters long at the foot This fortress-like concrete construction, These are the museum's storage areas. These warehouses are ultra-secure. The presence of a camera is exceptional. The museum director himself oversaw This museum has been tested It is a bunker designed that Egypt has to protect. This is where are located the most modern in the country. The quality of the ambient air so as not to damage the objects This is one It is made of wood and covered in gold. Like every room that comes in here, this bed will require dozens of hours As you can see, wood or natural fibers. which are nearly 3500 years old. This means that sometimes And our staff is on a mission and to prepare them This bed that the Pharaoh has never been shown to the public yet. And the grand museum promises into the intimate world of Tutankhamun. With this collection of linen clothing Everything was found intact in his grave. For the first time, all the objects will be exhibited. Until now, the public only knew Now, all of the 4,500 objects It is in this room, the most secure that these thousands of objects to the public are stored. They shed new light over 3000 years ago. Furniture, miniature funeral park, shopping box. And even different kinds in an astonishing state of conservation. There are also these hunting boomerangs Or Tutankhamun's sandals. The manufacturing technique As they are royal objects Their degree of perfection of any sandals made today, with industrial machines. The most moving discoveries are currently stored in these And here is a sad episode These two fetuses of little girls who were buried with him in his grave. Two small mummies who are undoubtedly For the first time, they will be exhibited as an integral part But the construction of the world's has experienced delays. And the inauguration Tourists are not about to visit it, so in the meantime, 600 km south of Cairo, Here is the must-see circuit for those, who want to explore Pharaoh Egypt, the cruise on the Nile. Five days of sailing exploration of the main monuments of Upper Egypt. Breathtaking landscapes. But today, there are Before the 2011 revolution, 600,000 French people Today, there are four times fewer. Among them are Catherine and Xavier. She is a high school teacher, And they desired to expose to their two children, We wanted to go there for a long time, Egypt makes you dream, It's time to go there First day of cruising On each side of the boat, and try to attract -It's a collision, isn't it? - Have you seen his balance? I think it's pretty funny, I prefer to try it on the spot quietly. However, a few moments later, Xavier lets himself be tempted It's quite beautiful, isn't it? -It's EUR50! EUR15 off. EUR15 discount The seller falls back on other targets. The blue one? -How much? Decrease a bit more! And that's how customers Money, beware! -The money in, madam. -We're going to put the money -He told me two for EUR20. A souvenir from Egypt for my daughter. It's a good deal. To help them a little bit. For tourism to come back. We're going to put the money in the bag. The money from the sale But for the sellers of the Nile, as bad as it is today. Because the SEMIRAMIS II, which carries Catherine is now one of the only floating hotels And the boat is far from full. It can usually accommodate up But this week, with half of them being French. Catherine, Xavier, and their 2 children They are located Welcome to our cabin. This is the boy's cabin. Did you do boy-girl? Yes, it allows you to meet up He's watching TV in the back room. And I have a TV, it's this one A window overlooking the Nile. That's Marianne's bed. And large cabins Comfort comparable But what especially appealed It's the discounted price of the stay. We paid EUR640 per person, all-inclusive. The plane, the cabin, morning, noon, and evening, of course. The total cost of 2,500EUR for four people, including flights, . With a small heart. Thanks! Unbeatable rates. But tour operators have no choice, because right now, The passengers of SEMIRAMIS the reluctance of those around them This is the case of Stephanie, a mother Louise, 15, and Paul, 11. I was told that it was really crazy The little joke was, "You didn't pay too much These are the kinds of jokes you get I spent a lot of time and now, in fact, everything is done It's very anxiety-provoking. A tense security context which, results in the presence away from the eyes of tourists. But for Stephanie, the distrust was paradoxically an argument We're all alone. So you benefit Your kids are super happy, It's a really vacation atmosphere, moreover, we have benefited On the ship, The group's schedule is quite busy. At least one stop per day Today's destination, the Temple of Philae, We're taking the boat here, right? It is located on an island, To get there, on which souvenir sellers are ambushed. EUR2! Wait, I'm getting some change. Which one do you prefer? Which do you prefer? It's plastic--two seconds, Overtaken by sellers, our tourists don't really have time The Philae temple is one Its style is characteristic that ruled the country, that of Queen Cleopatra. Maybe we'll go on visits Stephanie and her children to the salespeople. EUR4? No, it's plastic! -It's stone. Wait, we're going to be late. Then, on the way back, ok? See you later! After the hustle and bustle it's a completely different atmosphere, that awaits visitors inside the site. It's amazing! This is often what we reproach visits Stephanie had already been here The calm that reigns today has nothing At the entrance, It was a bit like Versailles very popular with tourists. The temple was built in honor of Isis, the main goddess of ancient Egypt. Inside, it is almost intact. For Catherine, Xavier and their children, impossible to resist the charm It feels like being alone in the world. We have the impression that we are A journey through time, which will end in the heart of its sanctuary. That's nice! Come on, let's say a prayer Isis. The great magician. We came, adoring you, and we are committed, to stop ask questions to our guide! He got us all the way! End of the day and return to Semiramis. Where after the evening meal Tourists will be treated The djellaba evening. An evening in which passengers are invited It is also an opportunity By offering these typical costumes. Paul and Louise, Stephanie's children, -Is it for girls or boys? -Do you like it? She's pretty. A djellaba covered -It's nice. And for EUR3 more, the traditional desert headdress. -That's great! It's huge! -Try it, please. -Look at me. You are huge! It's great! In the ship's ballroom, Traditional music, and spinning dervish. An atmosphere in which Paul, won't last long. -He's a dance addict, he loves it. It's quite natural for him. The evening is not going to last long, because tomorrow our tourists along the Nile. And their schedule is quite busy. This mass tourism became totally disastrous. Before 2011, 300 ships identical sailed on the Nile all the time. Today, A collapse with dramatic consequences. Along the river, dozens of boats have been at the docks for five years. These belong to an Egyptian company, who worked with French, Before the revolution, Hagag, welcomed up to 800 tourists per week He is now condemned to watch them rust. We are on a boat called DaVinci. It has 65 cabins. This ship has been docked On DaVinci, On the wall, British people photographed It was then impossible to imagine everything was going to stop. These are the pictures of the final group Before, there were groups that left, a crew that worked, It's as sinister as a cave. In the cabins, almost nothing moved. As if the next tourists The cabins are still functional, It's been a long time There is dust everywhere. If the rooms are still in good condition, have already caused To see this, There is dust and spider webs everywhere. Look at the condition The pool is in a disastrous condition. To restore these boats to the condition it would take hundreds of thousands There is no question when there are no more tourists. The company continues because you have to pay the salaries who are there solely The boat is abandoned to keep and maintain it. Let me show you where they live. Good morning. There's a sailor in his cabin. Here are their beds. We pay salaries and that costs us a lot. But if this was not done, Today, Due to a lack of customers and tourists not appearing eager Return near Cairo, at the foot The French archaeologist Vassil Dobrev, is beginning a new phase Come on, let's go! For 15 years, Vassil has focused a 50-meter-long construction site And if he settled here, Here, it's Pere Lachaise. It is the main graveyard. As in Paris, Pere-Lachaise This cemetery is a real treasure Vassil has just discovered the largest ever found here. This structure, which is 12 meters long, A large brick tomb that housed Each of them can potentially lead and to new treasures. But on the surface, several skeletons Over 1000 years after its construction. We have a skeleton here, but it could easily be superimposed One day, I found 5 skeletons Studying skeletons is the responsibility Today, exceptionally, At just two and a half years old, already It is handsome. My skeleton is beautiful. Do you think it's not bad? He has eyes. Does he have eyes? The skeleton has eyes. Did you explain to him what you were doing I provided him with the words. That is called a skeleton. Right now, he doesn't know and that is what we find after. the fact that once you're dead... this is what remains afterwards. And here is the man who is in charge His name is Olivier He is in the fresh air, he is outside. Most kids at that age, are in daycare all day long. He is with his parents outside, Not all children can participate -Where is the trowel? A little further on, because their tools have just hit which doesn't belong here. It's the lid of a stone sarcophagus. It is still sealed. It's still closed because There's the lid here. There, it's the coating and at the bottom, A sarcophagus that is still sealed. On the construction site, because there may still be The opening of a sarcophagus, So it's always a highlight Come on, now we're going to open it. No, it's not a real mummy, It's just wrapped up. It's not a mummy -Between 15 and 18. When the third molars the epiphyses, All this shows us Unlike a mummy, but simply wrapped in strips. This is already the sign To study the skeleton and try Diane is going to remove them. It was linen, probably. In several thicknesses. There is a really large quantity that are wrapped around the body. There are no objects in this grave. But for Vassil, regarding how the Egyptians An important thing in ancient Egypt, they're going to say, It came out of the body. They preserve the body So to preserve it, This obsession with the afterlife beginning with the Pharaoh, who possessed an extraordinary tomb. The nearby pyramid, which belongs It is the oldest stone monument Its restoration was abruptly interrupted Today, exceptionally, Vassil and Diane, were allowed to climb to the top. Thanks to this scaffolding From here, you can admire It's beautiful! To the north, known for the legendary Pyramids to the south, the father of Khufu. And all around, that are more or less well preserved. - It's really beautiful. It's the first time I've climbed It is still quite rare. And not just any ordinary one! It's a good start Here it started. There, we are 105 meters away, And there, we went to 147. Is it a bit like a competition between them? The idea was to join the Sun. The higher you are, It's much closer Today, there are around 120 pyramids A magnificent playground End of the working day. It is in Vassil's car Diane and Olivier arrived in Egypt just before the Revolution. Despite the turmoil, they chose their passion for ancient Egypt. I'm going to put myself there. Come on, see you tomorrow. Today, they are living in the south of Cairo. A cozy apartment of 200 square meters, far from the hustle and bustle Today, Cairo has more than An impressive megalopolis, in which Victor nevertheless feels like You're waiting for me anyway! He was born in Cairo, in a small clinic. Yes, he is at home. But here in the neighborhood, for now, I never had a problem walking with him The people in general are very nice, especially as soon as It must be said that Victor is beginning Victor, what are we buying? Look! Do you want strawberries? Retailers have become attached whom they see regularly. They do everything to please him. Don't you want it? No, that's for me. If Diane is comfortable However, she has been hesitant since the revolution. There are places we won't go. There are places where we used to go In any case, for now. The Islamic Cairo neighborhood, It is possible but in fact, The city center, Tahrir Square, and so on. You are never safe from running even if today they are more regulated. There were quite a few problems For Victor and me, Despite the sometimes unstable situation Diane does not plan to return The following day, the most enigmatic of Egypt's pyramids, the tomb of Snefrou. Khufu's father. 105 meters high. Strictly closed to the public, It's quite uncommon to gain entry there. even for an Egyptologist. Vassil has only been able to explore it For him, all the other pyramids that were invented here 4700 years ago. That's the corridor that goes down to the first bedroom. You have to bend over When you go back to the Pharaoh's tomb, We are going to utilize the notch. To access the heart of the pyramid, there are a lot of obstacles Still thousands of bats. Vassil progresses through a series Those bats are noisy! Now it goes straight up. A complex architecture, whose logic no one What is the point? I don't know It starts from the top There may still be another bedroom. After half an hour of exploration, Vassil finally arrives in what was A mystery room. Because unlike It was discovered to be completely empty. There was supposed Snefrou's sarcophagus was never found. The pyramids The king was reborn in his tomb, then went up to the sky through always headed north. That's probably where, in ancient times, that the looters slipped in This rule for the pyramids because the thieves later that to enter a pyramid, you had to go and look for the corridor That's why the subsequent kings changed. They started putting up false corridors, to the east, to the south, Despite their ingenuity, Pharaohs rarely succeeded in keeping Tutankhamun was the only one On the Nile, the night was very short Stephanie and her children to see a temple built -What time is it? What are you going to do? - We're going to Abu Simbel, visit the temple 250 kilometers Why so early? You have to be there for sunrise. Are you okay? -It's okay, it's a bit hard. Underarm pillow to sleep on the bus, forty courageous people to visit the famous Abu Simbel temple. Good morning everyone! Are you alright? It's a bit hard but you won't regret it. This morning, we are going It is regarded as the most stunning temple To visit Abu Simbel, tourists coming from several boats, must travel in a convoy who will leave Aswan and drive to the border of Sudan, located In the group, we find Catherine, A bit surprised by the deployment 40 police officers will be assigned to prevent any risk of attack. Obviously, we have to go and this is where a certain number And the guide even told us It was forbidden for the bus to stop. It's part of safety. We're indeed a whole convoy. If that's the price you have to pay for it, Unbeknownst to tourists, each bus is protected armed with a submachine gun. After 4 hours of driving in the desert, The sun had already risen reached the first security checks The visit will take place quickly. 1:30, not a minute more. Too brief to fully appreciate on the shores of Lake Nasser. Famous for its stone colossi, with the effigy of Pharaoh Ramses II. There they are! Look over there. They are well hidden. It's sublime! Even 50 years ago, and the temple was located Doomed to be inundated of a large hydroelectric dam on the Nile, the temple and its colossi The most spectacular archaeological With the saw, the workers cut which have been carefully numbered. The statues were then raised A colossal project overseen by UNESCO, and directed by French archaeologists. Imagine that the temple was in the water There were blocks that weighed Even if we wake up at dawn, so It's a total return on investment. The fatigue is completely gone. Ramses II had this temple Where do we start? There? Everything is disproportionate there. These monumental statues We are really at the feet of Ramses. It's gigantic. An omnipresent sovereign That's Ramses. He is depicted vanquishing his enemies. Ramses II reigned for 66 years 1200 years before Jesus Christ. Never again will Egypt be For our tourists, that makes them aware and the refinement achieved He's also holding an enemy and now But on the cruise program, there are not only cultural stops. To vary the pleasures, to a visit to a papyrus factory. Except the place is more like a gift shop. To divert attention at the entrance, That's the papyrus plant, that the ancient Egyptians You shape the outer parts like this. The slats are very solid After that, we put the strips That's after 6 days submerged in water. It is strong. After 2 minutes of explanation, the seller gets Please! If you want to buy something, it's cards, to write model numbers. Because if there is one thing It is the tradition Here, there is something And it works. No, it's too big! We're going Catherine, the teacher, wants to take the opportunity Something you like, understand? No, that's unattractive! We wanted to buy with Antoine, a small papyrus and we would add his first name like that, It will allow him to see his first name As for Stephanie, I plan to buy papyri, one for each. But between the abundance of supply and hard to make the right choice. No, it's not easy, I think it's beautiful. Yes, we found it! That one! Plus, it's in the colors of your room, In a few minutes, Antoine's first name and the ink has dried quickly. Everything is done Especially since we came here On Stephanie's side, is getting stronger and stronger. -Who is that? That one is beautiful! But she is having a bit of trouble 1200, divided by 8. It's expensive! For the bill, the seller prefers We're going to find out. 2030 + 40 = 2,070. -Have a nice trip! How much is that in euros? EUR258. Anyway! 258EUR for three papyri. Friends, let's go, please! A good day for the guide who undoubtedly In Egypt, some traditions cannot be lost. And that's good because some of them like visiting the Luxor Temple Or even the camel ride along the Nile. Like in the days of caravans It's super beautiful! An unforgettable trip Great! Great! Frankly, top experience! The rest of the walk may be Their guide takes them which is more like a tourist catch. Despite the temptations, Stephanie But in front of the stalls overflowing It's hard to keep a cool head. I Love it. -Stop it! What are you still looking for? Pepper? Curry? And now, we don't always know the price. 80? 80 pounds, or EUR9 Stephanie has some doubts. Give me 100 and I'll give you 20 back! 60 pounds. Last price. No, but it's not a big deal. In fact, there are no prices. We don't understand, And then, apparently, but rather by the ten grams. So apparently I was being ripped off, So I left the package, No, it's good! 50? In a week of cruising, on ancient Egypt than on Eastern trade. On the Saqqara plateau, Vassil went to great lengths This crane will make it possible The archaeologist is in a hurry The most promising of the tomb In Saqqara, where the excavation methods The arrival of a crane is an event. And workers are more motivated than ever. At this rate, Nearly 15 meters below the surface. No more ladder to go down that low, Vassil has no choice, and he is not very reassured. In the background, the workers stopped And the first brush strokes are promising, because it seems to be intact. Here, it's the start of digging the roof of the mountain You can clearly see the black coating, that was used to close, the bedroom at the back. And now it shows us from the locking doors of this room. -Is that exceptional? What Vassil is hoping for is that the tomb Over 4000 years ago. Inside, the sarcophagus and precious objects that accompanied But on the left side, the sealing There is something that I do not like. There, there is still a small hole, and the bricks are not in place. Didn't someone go down leaving that aside? Vassil believes through this tiny opening. but would he have taken everything away? To get to the bottom of it, And in the rubble, first surprise. It's getting interesting. A miniature alabaster vase. If it's like that on the inside... my God! The quality of the work It's very pretty, It shows a certain quality and importance Male or female, we don't know yet, The market value of this small vase From that moment on, and of such great value, The sand removed from the well is sieved The team finally reached The room starts here with registration. The room is fully decorated It is much better than the other one. Another discovery. Yes, it is very similar. Yes, much better! I can't see his name. It's much prettier and it's empty. On the threshold of the tomb, It's a small tablet. You see the little jars we saw, maybe it was on top of it. The tablet is engraved That's very interesting. At the top, there is a small line that gives us the owner, marked with ink, Take it easy here. Now it's perfect. It's a very small vase. Maybe for the oils. Unfortunately, it is empty. If there were a few more drops of oil Inside the tomb, They were supposed to contain beer, so that the deceased All of this has been in place We have the plaster cap. There you go, we can clearly see the jar, There is a traffic jam here It seems like that's the shape, It's a bit longer. It's the jars, maybe oil jars. Mixed with the sand, which most of us However, it has magical power. It's called the knife the instrument that allows the deceased The one who died so that the breath so that he can live again. A new surprise. It's a leaf of gold. It is a magnificent piece of work. A relic of the jewelry likely placed Like this necklace depicted But that's proof that in the grave, there were gold objects of great value. Vassil's mission is financed belong to Egypt Some of them will no doubt be exhibited A great success, even if the archaeologist, can't help but keep dreaming An untouched tomb. For us, it's very important if one day, we find an unbroken tomb. That would really be the best of the best. It's the most we can hope for. It can happen but it doesn't have to be. As a last precaution Vassil had the well sealed Enough to prevent thieves That's it, it closes well. Far from mass tourism, The Nile offers a timeless break. This is Sudan, the only steamboat Built in 1921, it is now owned owned who offers luxury cruises. 67 crew members for only 23 cabins. High-end service, supervised in every detail by Amir, Despite the crisis Amir's company has never stopped If we even have one customer, The reputation, That's the image of our agency, It happens a lot of times even from Luxor to Aswan And we do the same service. This week, there are only Amir welcomes each of them personally. The latest arrivals, this French couple, Caroline and her husband Michael. Amir, the boat manager. Me and my whole team always at your service, 24 hours a day. In my heart, I wish you Thank you and to your good health! It's magic! It is a boat that is-- that is burdened with a past, At any rate, it was very well organized. Besides, it's a bit mythical. Caroline and Michael came the beginnings of tourism in Egypt. In the days of Agatha Christie, she indeed travelled to Sudan in 1933. A cruise that inspired him It's pretty incredible. This wood that has truly aged. Since then, It's quite amazing to have There is an authentic, different side. Eccentric, yet comfortably so. A large bath. The main attraction of the ship An engine room open to the eyes. Fuel oil has replaced coal. But all the mechanics are original, with the limitations of the era. Like a century ago, a machinist to protect the elements from breakage. I think we're able to stay there It's a bit addictive, As a feeling, it's funny. 5 pm, time for tea in Sudan. Originally it was an English boat, which of course offered That's the icing on the cake. That's what we like The slightly English side, with small details that go well, That's the most of the cruise I think other boats don't offer that. A dream cruise and a price For two, you should be around It is the price of a certain exception with attention to the little details that seems to explain the price The conditions are exceptional A situation that is likely to last, because of the threats about Egypt and its treasures.