UFOs and alien encounters have been reported of UFO sightings rocked the planet and continue Although they are often harmless events, there alleged abduction or visitation of human beings Hello, and welcome to another special episode Today, we're taking a look at the alien abduction cases of all time. Many abduction stories tell of aliens performing but some claim that the aliens are also interested help in creating a race of human-alien hybrids. Whatever the reasoning, some alien abductees event, and few are more well known than the the abduction of Antonio Villas Boas. In early October 1957, Boas began seeing strange farm in rural Brazil. On October 5th, just before midnight, Boas he opened his bedroom window to get some fresh Later that night after sleeping for a bit, the exact same position, yet as he looked him at frightening speed. Terrified, he slammed shut the window shutters as the bright light shined through the closed The light reappeared 9 days later when Boas at night to beat the daytime heat. This time the light hovered about 300 feet one end of the field to the other as the brothers Suddenly, the light disappeared as if having the light may have simply lifted up and rushed The next night, working the fields alone, Boas at incredible speed. Before he could decide what to do it had already could see a craft that looked like a "large Three legs extended from underneath it, and a terrified Boas ran to his tractor. But upon reaching it, the tractor and its While Boas was fleeing for his house, a small According to Boas, the figure was dressed an elongated helmet and what appeared to be Shaking off the figure, Boas turned to run who overpowered him. Boas was taken to a flexible metallic rolling Once inside, he found himself in a small, The aliens grabbed Boas and held him in place opposition, the aliens seemed to take care they patiently removed it. All the while the aliens communicated between as some kind of animalistic grunts. The sounds were so foreign to Boas that when describing or recreating them. Once naked, the aliens applied a clear liquid took blood with a device from his chin that At this point, Boas says he was left alone figure entered the room, described by Boas beautiful, were not quite "right." A device in the ceiling emitted a puff of he thought it acted as some sort of aphrodisiac. After engaging in intercourse with the alien to his farm but not before trying to secretly of his experience, which caused one of the Boas's story could easily be dismissed as of detail and his great reluctance in his It took Dr. Olavo T. Fontes, Professor of of Brazil, to convince Boas to go public with and a member of Brazilian military intelligence. Along with the incredible amount of detail and the craft itself, Boas was also found and he exhibited a plethora of other physical Was it an actual alien encounter, or was it very lonely - farmer? We'll let you decide as we move on to our Made famous by the Hollywood film Fire In has become a hotbed of controversy. On November 5th, 1975, Walton and 5 other piled into a truck for the drive home after Minutes later, the crew spotted a bright light Filled with curiosity, they drove closer until just above a clearing. While the others stayed in the truck, a fascinated ignoring the shouts from the rest of his crew As Walton approached the disc, it suddenly wobble from side to side, scaring Walton who According to one of the men on Walton's crew, disc and struck Walton, sending him sprawling The terrified crew immediately put the truck and immediately called the police. Deputy Sheriff Chuck Ellison answered their that all of the men were distraught and two Although skeptical of the story, he said, good at it." Within hours, a police search of the abduction an exhaustive search involving horses, helicopters, At this point, the police grew suspicious story to be a cover for an accident or a murder. A polygraph test administered days later indicated sighting or that they had hurt Walton. Days later, a disoriented Walton called his phone. Rushed to a hospital, Walton relayed a story popular "grays" described by other abductees male and female aliens who would not answer him. A medical examination discovered a small puncture injection, but it was nowhere near a vein. His urine also showed a lack of ketones, which he insisted - and as his weight loss suggested breaking down fats in order to survive. To this day, Walton's story remains the stuff test on the TV game show called The Moment Skeptics believe the entire story was made his crew were severely behind in their logging Walton's alleged abduction allowed them to However, Walton's crew remained adamant for story was true. Even the police who first responded to their at how visibly shaken and distraught the men Are aliens real, and if so, do they really Should we be concerned, and should our governments terrifying threat? It's ultimately easy to dismiss alien abduction for attention, or to get one's self out of can be perplexing and begs the question: just fields in the remote countryside end up with of other perplexing physical ailments? Do you believe in aliens? Have you ever had an alien encounter? Want to hear more of the world's most incredible Let us know in the comments below. Also, be sure to check out our other video Happen Again?! Thanks for watching, and, as always, if you and subscribe for more of The Infographics