U GC content is all the rage in And I'm actually super excited about it content is actually the majority of the has gotten over the past couple of years. So I've been making money It's definitely not a new concept, but platforms like TikTok and Instagram reels So I wanna. All the details of what exactly a good U GC content creator, and So, first off, what is UGC content? So UGC stands for user generated early, early days of social media, users actual customers were posting. Just naturally out of the blue. So let's pretend that I'm the Well, I'm gonna look at people posts and other social media posts. If I see high quality photos or tweets, anything like that, that I I'm gonna reach out to that can use that in our marketing. So that's the original kind. Meaning of UGC content, but over the brands are catching on to the fact that style videos, these DIY cell phone style in creating this stuff themselves. So it's not quite as organic. It. Paid for by the brand and owned maybe yourself, like maybe myself Making this content and So who makes a good UGC content creator? Well, you know, anybody who's who's comfortable and really likes You know, I think that there's a content creator, you have to be like an influencer or something like that. And the truth. One of the big appeals of U GC people creating this content. If you are a mom of four, you are probably moms in your similar income bracket and You know, we kind of know that really relate to those people. They have a completely So, you know, you don't have to be perfect but you do have to be comfortable to be a. On camera. So keep that in mind. No, there is definitely I'm sure you sometimes will see But I would say nine times out of 10, on camera, perhaps comfortable Course comfortable creating That can mean anything from photos form content, short form content. The majority of the UGC content it's actually YouTube videos. But again, now that TikTok is That is a huge, huge demand. So if you like creating. Keep on watching. Okay. So the first thing that you're gonna content creator is build a portfolio. A portfolio is going to be a showcase That is hopefully similar to whatever job company it is that you're pitching to. So within that, before you even get idea to list out what topics or what Knowledgeable about creating. So for example, me and my business, generally worked with have been like So I have to be really knowledgeable about I have to be able to I have to be able to know how to tutorials and things like that. So that's a lot of my portfolio, but say beauty products, You need to have because they're not gonna wanna hire me. If I just show them a portfolio that's pretty boring and unrelated. So my advice for building a with whatever you already have. So. For me, maybe that is just doing day, like Asana, like final cut pro. I might just create some quick TikTok or to post them on YouTube. So I start building up that experience. If you were doing the beauty your makeup drawer and. Pull out some products and create Now there's two ways that You can do what I just said and post start a YouTube channel, start a So you actually start to get real kind of thing on your content. Or you can just create it and just post it in a portfolio. A lot of people ask, what Is it a website? Is it a document? Like, what is it? And you can just create a simple showcasing a couple of your favorite Linking over to it. This is really important. Make sure to hyperlink so that If you have it public on a then that's really easy to do. But if you're keeping your content folder and just get a shareable That way. That's a really easy way to Now there's kind of another group benefit from UGC content. Influencers, you know, existing to make a little bit of extra money. That was kind of the area that I sort at first, because I was already creating So most of my first UGC clients knows what she's talking about. We like her on camera presence. And they reached out and asked me to So if that is you as well, some of your top performing. Posts featuring products, Maybe they're not, but just pull is both creative and also really If you do keep a private have any data to speak to. So this might be a hindrance when Keep that in mind. It isn't a bad idea to just You can just create a separate. It might not need to be under your that, because it is gonna help you to made got, you know, a hundred thousand worked with said that they saw 50,000 Those things will help And get more people to want to hire you. Whew. Okay. So after you create your portfolio, you're How in the world you get clients I've There's really two different You can take an inbound approach, content maybe as an influencer creator, whatever you're posting things. And you're kind of waiting for This is the kind of stuff They'll reach out to you via They'll reach out somehow and So that's one approach, and I think and you're just kind of looking to you might want to take an outbound. More active approach to getting clients. If you are like, I wanna do this I'm starting, you know, from scratch. Really. I don't have an existing social a little bit more aggressive in your So I'll first speak to inbound quickly. Keep doing what you're doing, but make your post, you know, tag the brands. If you're posting anything, You may notice that some brands actually And if they ask you if they reach out That's a great opportunity to say, I'd be happy to talk about content or U GC content for you. And that can kind of get the influencer and you're already getting Sponsorships for YouTube, for your It's also a great idea to upsell for UGC So if they say, Hey, can you post one I might say, absolutely. Do you want some separate 32nd pieces of Or do you want a TikTok ready give you that you can post? Own account. And then I will just give them a cost So it can be a really great social media managers out there. If you are already, you know, building already posting the content, it can be Money onto your contract by actually So if they're gonna, you know, budget their bikinis or whatever it is they do an unboxing video for them to And again, just price that out. In a package or by video So you can sort of upsell that way. Now, if we're talking outbound and you're a great place to start is Upwork. Upwork is where I got my very And if you go on there and you just user generated content, content creator. Branded content, content creation, all of those different terms. It's not all gonna fall under UGC. So keep that in mind, just do And there is a lot of bad with Upwork, You do have to do a little bit of digging. You do have to customize your pitches. You do need to, you know, attach work to get those high quality And listen, you may need to I'm not saying that you should you know, forever, but get a Get them to give you a good review on Easier and easier as you start your testimonials, it's just gonna high quality gigs moving forward. Now, another thing that you can do is And I recommend starting with brands for brands that you truly love already. Like I know that I just love I recommend their lip They're amazing. They're like my go-to filming lip gloss. That would be one of the first I wanted to make content, because I I already love them. I already have, you know, saying, Hey, about this lip gloss So I sort of have those stories to pieces of content, but how do you So you can try just DMing the brand. Somewhere to start. Your success rate of that is gonna be sometimes it's just going to go into like who don't really care or even worse. They might delete it because you're kind But if the brand that you wanna you know that it is the owner. Or the manager themselves managing inboxes can work and again, tagging the So if you're thinking of like indie brand new startups in the tech or two employees, things like that. That can be a good place to But I really recommend reaching taking a multi-prong approach. If you will, you can kind of reach out your pitches actually land somewhere. So cold emails can go really, really And most of the times they go. Poorly because people just I'm gonna be honest with you. I get so many cold emails in my just desperate and annoying and So you wanna make sure that you. Are complimentary to the Don't just insult them. You wanna make sure that you run your maybe through Grammarly is one of my sure I'm, you know, writing correctly. You also wanna make sure that you So again, let's pretend that I'm gonna One thing that I love to do I go to the people tab and I Maybe I might be looking for a marketing marketing officer, or maybe I'll look people who are in charge of the editorial media involved in content marketing, So let's say that I find a I'm gonna click on her profile gather contact information. If I can find it. Sometimes they have it There are also tools out there Pull that data and get an email Now, if you can't find it through research of course, just email like contact buck, gonna be a lot harder to get to the right So definitely do your due diligence, the right person to reach out. I actually just hosted a free and selling your services. So if you're interested in checking I'll link it down in the description So you can watch. all right. So you are in contact with the person they Now what? Well, you'll probably wanna get them their needs, to understand what type of you know, the vision that they're. Looking for the look So I just like to send over a scheduling Once we're, at that point, you You can use my favorite, I will have a link in Hop on a call with them, start Start to understand the brand. I actually have a full video, all So I will link that if you wanna check agree to work with you, based on the you're gonna want to send over a proposal. Now you may know that I also do full And those proposals tend to be a lot more content project in most cases, unless it it's gonna have a lot of variables and But if somebody's just saying, It might just be a simple one page the overall look and feel. The overall concept and editorial So it's not gonna be super, super robust. I think in most cases, especially for actually move like really, really quickly. So you probably don't need to Like you may, if you're gonna be for a year, if they agree to your. And your ideas, then you can move forward. And this is something I really out there to please, please do. I know this is something that a dipping their toes in to freelancing. So maybe you have never dealt please don't skip this step. Writing out a contract It's gonna protect the brand. It's just gonna make the So make sure that in your Listed, you know how much you're details on how you're gonna get paid. Are you going to be getting paid Are you gonna get paid at the end sent over, that's really up to you. But I personally always push at least getting a deposit. 50% at signing and 50%, once the that your contract also has all of your really clear about when you're gonna send of revisions are going to be accepted. You don't wanna be rerecording a TikTok. 10 times for, you know, $500 or whatever You wanna make sure that you And also, you know, that you're discovery call and at the beginning to hopefully minimize the number of I'm not a lawyer. So I cannot give you a contract But there are plenty of lawyers out there creation, hiring a lawyer actually doesn't them to get you a contract template that And I also really love honey book, which Again, I will leave a link to honey book for $1 a month for the first eight months. It is a really amazing deal. So be sure to check that out. If you want access to those also invoice through honey book. So this is where you will If you're gonna get paid again, that up front or if you're gonna get paid but it just really makes things. Go a lot smoother. It gives you a much You're not having to like send Google drive and things like that. So I highly recommend really upping book for contracts and invoices. And then lastly, you're So you can do this a You can just send this over via email. If it's just like one or two something that I've used for years Especially for longer form content or detailed is a tool called frame frame And then the client can timestamps and add comments. If they're like, Hey, can we actually whatever that makes it really easy and those changes back and forth. Now when it comes to the actual YouTube content, for example, you That process is pretty simple, but I it can be a little bit more involved elements that you've created using So what I like to do I'll preview the, uh, piece of record and send that to myself Frame, of course saving it as a draft. If I do need to make any changes and then say that they then approve your TikTok. A little hack that I've figured out for So let's say it's U GC Latasha on post the actual TikTok download. Remove the watermark using a tool the TikTok and send them over that can upload it on their own account. So that's it. Those are the basic steps to There is a lot more that Sure. So if you have any questions, If you're watching on YouTube, or go in more detail about any. Things. I also encourage you if you're new my other resources, a lot of them social media managers, but many of You know, how to host a discovery, analyze your success, looking at And all of that is very, very similar. So be sure to check those out. I'll. Some other resources for you in the And I thank you as always I hope you have an amazing rest of your