- SHEIN has become one in the world for buying much the same way that Temu is for tech. But did you know that you The question, though, is it as good as Temu or Wish? Or maybe good's a bit of a relative term. At first glance, I mean, it's, it's, it's clearly clothes, right, like, lots of clothes. Wow. Okay. I think we might have to sensor that one. Well, wait, hang on a second. It is SHEIN. I need to, like, get a wardrobe, right? I'll get that later. I'll get that later. So if you scroll over to they do have a pretty good selection: game consoles, power banks. Here, let's go to cell phones. Let's see what kind of phones we can find. All right, so we got ourselves the... Oh, good Lord. The first thing is a fake iPhone. Now, to be fair, they do advertise it pretty But, I mean, it is a Like, it looks exactly like an iPhone. Oh, this is all so weird. Man, they got a lot of A handheld game console. So it's another little emulator, but this one's a duplicate and battery bank. They literally took a little NES clone and they slapped it onto a power bank. (upbeat music) Sure, let's do it. Wireless lipstick earphones. What the hell are lipstick earphones? Oh, my god, the carrying case is just (whimsical music) Oh, that's cool. These are the new K1 which they're, you know, normal Bluetooth headphones, but they actually have And it's 39 bucks. Now, if this is anything with the AirPods later this year, this is not a knockoff, this is a knock ahead, knock on. (whimsical music) All right, you know what? Let me get some men clothing. I need men clothing. High top men's winter insulated shoes. Are these squishy, soft shoe- What the hell? It's like someone took a puffer jacket and made a shoe out of it. Boy, these are ugly. Wow, these are ugly. Well, here, this one's all right, the Tom and Jerry one. I mean, that's fine. It's made by SHEIN, so it's gotta be high quality. Look at, look at... There's a lot of just So with that, my friends, I think we have all the tech and vaguely tech-related items from SHEIN. So let me hit that big red order button and we'll see what happens when it all arrives in two to four weeks apparently. I don't know. All righty, my friends. Let's see what we've got Now, I will say that this in that what happens is they must, like, ship all the packages to and they bundle it all together, 'cause theoretically I or 10 items in here. All right. (chuckles) (upbeat music) I gotta say, they're a lot fluffier than (Austin laughs) Oh, yeah. Hang on a second. Let me... (upbeat music) (packaging whooshes) (packaging boings) You know, the thing is I this going to look, but it feels so strange. All right. Behold, my friends. Tada! - Oh, my God. where you can get yourself some And boy, oh boy, am I a big old fashionable boy today. Fashionable boy, that's me. I can speak too. Look, we all make questionable and SHEIN is all about fashion. And is this not fashion? Are we not running out of censor budget every second that I'm on screen? Maybe. I don't know. I might need a piece of tape for my hat. Happy birthday! There's tech in this video, if you're patient. The heavy rumor is that of AirPods is going to into the case. Now, that's a strange rumor to me, but people seem to be very sold on it, so much so that companies third-party AirPod-like headphones that actually have a screen on the front. Now, it's strange to think about But why wait for Apple to sell us a $400 pair of AirPods in 2025 when you got the real-ish for the low low price of? (lively music) - [Alex] $43. - $43! I thought it was 37. Well, close enough. (laughs) Bro! No, no, no, no, no. This is not a new set of AirPods. What are you... Dude, this is so ridiculously huge. This is a pair of Sony 1000XM5s, a nice compact case. And this is my AirPod Chungus 9000s. There's no way... You're gonna have a dedicated Are you sure about that? Hello. Okay, how do I activate? Oh, oh, okay, we've got action. Okay, hold on a second. Okay, so it's actually like a But they're not paired, though. How are they not paired? It's apparently playing but I don't know where it's playing it 'cause it's not on the AirPods. What? Connection successful. Oh my god. I finally got it. - [Alex] Yay. - Jesus! I could hear that even on my end. Is it just on full blast? Yeah, I could hear that- - Ow. - But let me actually try with my phone and see if that helps with but I don't think it will. Audio doesn't work. Look, I try to enable... It's for calls and inputs. I try to enable audio It's, like, not a real pair of headphones. What kind of nonsense is this? The headphones wanna be paired to this, the phone wants to be paired to this, but they don't talk to each other. And on top of that, they're shipping copyright music built into your headphones and they sound terrible. So you see here, I've got myself an iPhone 15 Pro in a beautiful Latercase. But you know what? (lively music) Trying to do this with than I thought it was gonna be. Kevlar? No, thank you. I need some real protection. Yes, my friends, SHEIN has a surprisingly large amount of phone cases to choose from, and this is one of them. It's a lot floppier than But you know what? That's fine, because I wanna make sure that everyone knows exactly what's up. So I'm gonna go ahead and And there we go. So... Oh, sorry, hang on, I'm getting a call. One moment, please. Yeah, what's up? Yep. Uh-huh. Yeah, yep, another SHEIN video. No, no, they haven't cared This, how much did I pay for this very fancy case that already has a hair on it 'cause it's gross and rubber? - [Alex] You paid 10 whole dollars. - If you want to have with your phone with and you wanna show off your style, you wanna be like... - [Joanna] Wait. Walk over here. - [Austin] Yep. - [Joanna] Okay. - How do you do, fellow kids? (lively music) Oh, sorry. Cinnamon Roll is calling. (lively music fades) (Austin chuckles) Well, this is thematically color matching. This is my game box. Now, something I was a when I was doing the ordering scene was just how much... Like, SHEIN obviously has but there's actually a lot of emulators, which I guess kind of makes sense 'cause those are probably So this is the G7, which the problem is that because a lot of emulators but you can't really tell So this was, I think, But the problem is that sometimes you realize they're just which, no offense to NES (upbeat music) NES games. (upbeat music continues) - [Alex] What do - Because I wanna play, Dude, the emulation running at like a weird Like, (whimsical music) the color's also very washed out. How much was this? - [Alex] It was $11. Only one more dollar than that case. - I'll say for $11, if you want like a little emulator, it's not terrible. The problem is, is that you and actually get an emulator that can play more than just a bunch And the screen's not the But thankfully we have one more. Also, ah, my ear hurts from the headphones. I just, I realized that from those headphones blasting me earlier. - [Alex] Oh, no, tinnitus. - Yeah. I mean, no! Tinnitus is for old people. I'm hip. Are these my pants. - [Alex] I don't Are those your pants? - I think I found my pants. Now that I have fixed my fit, I gotta say I feel Manfinity as hell. I'm just, just an infinite man walking through the TikToks and trying to get the views. So this, I would categorize as like it's not a fake iPhone, it's just inspired. And if you want everyone to think that you're using an iPhone 11, then this is the move. Now, this one was relatively cheap, right? I think we paid less than $200 for this. - [Alex] We paid $210. - $210 for it. I know that there were a few with different storages. This is one of the only It feels like an iPhone, like, 14 or 15 Pro Max. Like it's a very large chunky Phone, but it's also like kind of It's not actually going to be, like, the same size as like an actual iPhone 15. You can see it's significantly larger. So it's running Android 13 which uses an eight core processor with 12 gigs of Ram. Oh, okay. So the display is 2400 by 1080, which is the same kinda resolution as you would find on or whatever. - I still slightly am confused on who's gonna spend but it actually doesn't feel terrible. Let's, let's try to watch That was some real danger right there. I'm just over here Speakers aren't good. That package was flung aggressively. (lively music) Did YouTube just crash? Yep, YouTube crashed. Okay, we'll try that again. This is not terrible. Let's try out the camera. So this is a little video sample of what it looks like to While this phone might look like the real deal at first glance, I think as soon as you start using it, you quickly understand why it is not sold at your average Micro Center, Best Buy, Target, Walmart, or Radio Shack, 'cause it's kinda bad. It's not terrible, mind you. I've seen worse. But, like, this is not some $70 phone that you buy on SHEIN or Ali Like, this is actually a And if I've got the choice or even like a Moto G there's no way that I'm going with this, like no shot. Yeah, maybe avoid. Definitely avoid. So this is Reteke- Wait, wait. Ret- Reteke- Rete- Retekess. Is this a clear FM radio? (lively music) (Austin gasps) It's prison tech. (Alex laughs) It's prison tech! We found more prison tech! Look. It's a clear FM radio. So alongside my prison radio, I also have some audiophile headphones. Now, for context, how much They were cheap, right? - [Alex] They were $6. - So normally you'd think, &quot;Oh, $6 headphones, no good.&quot; But like I'm telling you, like in-ear monitors but you can't really Okay, I got static. Let me go through my jog wheel here. I will say this sounds good for FM radio. The only real negative I can say about it is that you've got very little space, so when you're trying to tune it, you have to be very precise. Like, this is the difference between one radio station and another one. Like, you gotta be real tight on it. I will give the radio a big thumbs up. But, honestly, the fact that this crappy looking radio sounds as good as those headphones makes me very excited. Let me actually plug this into a phone and listen to it. (lively music) What? That's super weird. Okay, so I think they're okay. The thing is they're kinda bassy, but there's like no high But it's not like that kind of... You know, like when you listen to, like, really cheap headphones because they rattle? They're not like that. They actually sound like if maybe they had a little With my little USB-C dongle, I'm clicking like 80% volume, and they sound okay. But it's, like, you know, like, for those like kind of nicer headphones that need a lot of power, it's like you'll but they don't sound rich, like, you're missing out a lot. That's what these sound like. I'm gonna give these a soft pass. But I'll give your two big thumbs up. It sounds good and it looks cool. You know, I think at we all need to take a second and relax with a dope new chair. Now, it supposedly has but also a chair. And it was available for a very, very cheap price of... I don't remember, but not a lot. I'm not entirely sure, if I'm honest you, why I purchased a big chair And, you know, after a I'm not gonna use that as a verb, I'm gonna wanna put my feet up and enjoy a little bit of relaxation. Okay, let's see what we got here. (funky music) Hey. Wait, where's my ottoman? Hey, wait. Oh, there it is. Okay, I found it. All righty, my friends. (funky music continues) So here, I got an idea. Since, you know, we're to be funny for the kids, I'm gonna jump and land on this, and we're gonna smash cut and it'll be fully inflated. Y'all ready? - [Alex] Yeah. (upbeat music) - Oh, wow! That didn't take 30 minutes You know what? I could take a nap on this. Ah, what would I do without SHEIN, besides make better content? So this next item, I saw and I had to check it out. Now, at first glance, it looks like a little emulator yet again. However, this is not just an emulator, it's a 10,000 milliamp hour power bank with an included controller. Now, if you look at this it might look okay, but as soon as you start looking at it a little bit closer, you realize just how Now, it does have a cable built in, so I'll give them props for that. So it does have a USB-C cable as well as it has a So you don't have to While I'm charging my that leaves me no space let's try and fire it up, shall we? (upbeat music) - [Joanna] Hey, that sounds familiar. (Alex laughs) - [Alex] I wonder if they were made by the same company. (upbeat music) Is it at least smoother - [Austin] It is running at a it's just the wrong one. (whimsical music) (triumphant music) - [Joanna] Is that the first time you've made it through? - No. I've beaten 1-1 before. 1-2, though, I've never How much did I pay for this - [Alex] Uh, I mean, keep in mind it's both - [Austin] Uh-huh. - [Alex] $45. (laughs) - Any emulator that only plays NES games, not good enough. You can spend, for 40 bucks you can get real emulator off of AliExpress, Temu, Wish, or even... (faint lively music) Yes, my friends, because that wasn't enough, I got myself a real emulator. This is Anbernic. Now, if you're familiar, Anbernic is a company who real emulators that will play more than just a bunch How much did I pay for this one? - [Alex] Just under 100 bucks. - So, not cheap. But considering that this real NES games as well as Super Nintendo, Game Boy, PlayStation, PSP, N64, like, theoretically, this is gonna do a lot. Behold, my friends. Oh, I forgot I got the translucent one! Hell yeah. Good job, past Austin! All righty. So this is the Anbernic. So we've got ourselves a much better feeling buttons, a larger LCD display. And if we come around to the top, we have both USB-C's for power as well as an additional controller, an HDMI, headphone jack, as well as we've got on the bottom. So the way this is meant to work is that one of these and the other one, you can load up with a bunch of ROMs, which is a cool idea. Okay, we've got PSP, PS1, Vertical Arcade, CPS1, 1, and 2 cabinets, Neo Geo, MAME, Game Boy Advance, NES, Super Nintendo, 32X, Game Boy Color, Game Boy, PC Engine, Neo Geo Pocket, Game Gear, and WonderSwan. That's a lot of games. Let's try &quot;God of War,&quot; shall we? &quot;God of War&quot;... So running a PSP game is actually gonna be a little Ooh, I don't love the with the actual aspect ratio. I think I could probably But we're gonna try to play a PSP game, which is a much more demanding title than something like the NES games that we've been playing so far. All right, we're in. Oh, that looks like it actually runs. Yo, that actually looks really good. Oh, oh, the audio is kind of Ooh. The audio is not great. Let's go ahead and try one more thing. Well, let's try something I think you'll be able to There's a little bit of a latency. Well, maybe it's not bad. Actually, you know what? This frame rate is smoother It's a little touchy on the controls, but that's not bad. Actually it's quite touchy. All right, we got 'em, Stay on it, stay on it, stay on it. Oh, no, we gotta line 'em up. No! No, get back over here, R33. Let's go. Go, go, go, go. Come on, NSX. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. No! So close. Ah, how much did I lose that by? Also, a 52-second lap doesn't sound right. I lost by a 10th of a second. Ah! All right. You know what? I feel good about the Anbernic. I still think we maybe than we need to. But as Alex rightfully points out, these are often sold out, so it's a little bit hard So I'll give this a thumbs up. I feel like this is much better than this kind of like seems like a good idea and realize that it's and just not that useful unless you wanna play which I do not. Now, I have some questions about this one. So this is, at first but it actually is meant for your phone. So I assume it's got USB-C. But when I look at the top, there's a very interesting So it says it supports the Steamdeck, Windows 7 through 11, Android, and iOS. But to my understanding, you plug this in via USB-C So I don't know how you would use this with like a Windows PC. Also it's very squished, so we'll see if it's still works. Oh. Ew. It definitely looks not high quality. So... (whimsical music) Mm, it's okay. I will say the buttons do light up, which is kind of cool. But let me actually pair And theoretically it... Oh, it's doing things. Okay, well, not what I So after wrestling with the and realizing that I we now have actual function. I can press buttons and things happen. So let's give it a try, shall we? So we're gonna play some &quot;Sonic 2,&quot; which I'm sure is gonna be great. Yo! Okay, so the controller Oh, wait. (lively music) I'm just realizing, so it just... Oh, so you do have the touch controls that are still overlaid. Oh, oh, what the... B closes the game? What? Uh-oh, it's broken. It's stuck. The B button's stuck pressed down. All right, let's try again. Please tell me this works. Oh my god! No, it does it again! How much did I pay for - [Alex] $20. - No, not worth it. First of all, yes, if you wanna pretend that it's not built well. The fact that it's Bluetooth only, it doesn't have any kind of wired mode, so you have to deal with The fact that it has some button here that keeps exiting me outta the game. No, this is not it. Now, I've heard a rumor. When it comes to purchasing, legitimate, authentic games for the Nintendo Switch, there are beginning to be fakes out there. Now, from time to time on Temu, for example, that seem a little too good to be true when it comes to the prices of the games. And SHEIN has the same thing. So I have purchased what legitimate Nintendo Switch 40 bucks? - [Alex] It was $55. - Wait, like full price? Wait, this has an Amazon on it. (Alex laughs) - [Alex] Someone (upbeat music) (Austin laughs) - Wait a minute, wait a minute. Hold on, hold on. So my... (laughs) I'm so stupid. I have never found a I believe that there but this looks pretty legit. And it is just the cartridge. And, of course, the most important thing. (lively music) - [Alex] Does it taste European? Does it taste like stroopwafels and- - Ooh. - No, it's bitter. It's bitter. Yep, that's a real game. (lively music) Probably shouldn't just lick random things that I purchased on SHEIN. But you know what? What could go wrong? - [Alex] No, please don't, don't... Anybody at home, do not, - You know, I do the sniff test, but with a Switch game, it's the lick test. (Alex sighs) Okay, I think it's pretty safe to say this is a real copy of the game. I don't think that this So I would say everything we found could have either been found on something like AliExpress but more importantly, it's just higher quality. Like, even though there's a lot of tech that actually is on SHEIN, it's pretty clear that it and almost all of it is just I don't know why I'm surprised. Sometimes when we do these videos, we actually find, like, But, like, this stuff is just bad. Like, I don't think Actually, no, I take There's one good item And I think that I'm just and chill out with my giant weird shoes and contemplate the good old days when (lively music) Wish was popular. (lively music fades)