A TikToker Inhaled 1 Kilogram of For 6 Months. This Is What Happened To His Brain. GG is a 20 year old man, presenting to the and leg weakness. He couldn't GG was a student at the local college, post videos online of him doing GG lived in the apartments on campus with years. One of the guys, Jake liked to make that used little cans. They push gas whipped texture. This nitrous oxide is but it's also known as laughing gas. It has but, it's sometimes used for something Jake would use flavored gas. This those cans were huge. One day, GG told the other a video. He took the big can. Held it up to his Immediately after inhaling the laughing gas, GG his voice was a totally different pitch. He He tried to grab the wall, but then he lost he collapsed to the floor. Everyone thought he couldnt believe what happened. And At first, he'd just check it out the entire week was the weekend. became the first thing that he'd do in One evening, GG felt like he was going to have of whipped cream chargers. On the floor, he couldnt. He couldnt remember what day it was, were no thoughts going through his head. When he He thought he could feel a weird tingling in his GG got to the point where this was the only thing funny to see him just slouched over on the started noticing that when he would try to get up, They laughed at him, but when they saw him try the table before falling to the ground. When they called for an ambulance and he's brought At examination, the medical team noticed but he couldn't tell them where he was, or what brain. If he fell and hit his head, this could be causing swelling, as the brain starts skull causing permanent damage. But when normal. There was no bleeding or swelling, GG couldnt stand or walk on his own. Doctors in his legs, they find that he didnt have any. input from the brain. The impulse goes through reflex could mean something's wrong with GG was still confused, and he said nothing this 3 sided shape was, he said hamburger. This that GG has problems in both his brain and Looking at his blood cells under a microscope, they find his red blood cells are larger to a lot of oxygen. Doctors didnt know about GG's and he couldn't because he was so incapacitated. his brain, and his spinal cord give Red blood cells are made in the bone marrow. they come out too big and they can't function Red blood cell precursors are some of the most a hormone will tell the bone marrow to doesnt seem like what's happening to GG. just aren't developing fast enough, and this means a toxin is inside his body he has a nutritional deficiency. And in the case causes a nutritional deficiency. The name tells Air is about 80% nitrogen. It's actually used to this mix. Nitrous Oxide dissolves in but, it doesnt like to stay there. is that it leaks back out in the body and becomes gut. That's fine because the gut is stretchy. The ears have air but if you increase the This means that Nitrous Oxide can space. This will cause users to suffocate. and death. But GG isn't dead yet. But it because after a couple days in the hospital, can't stand or walk on his own. But This brings us back to nutritional deficiency, when oxygen-containing chemicals that aren't are put in the body in large amounts, they Some of these are pretty important functions. Red Oxidizing iron makes it so blood cells can't carry because it would cause GG to turn blue. But one metal that's involved in red blood the fatty sheath that covers the nerves and If GG's incessant Nitrous Oxide use caused inactivating it, then this makes sense why why the reflexes in his legs are absent, and why A blood test finds that he isn't deficient in doesn't explain what's happening. Vitamin B12 is an enzyme to function. Enzymes make new chemicals, the body. If Vitamin B12 isn't working anymore, meaning that either no chemicals are Vitamin B12 coenzymes for 2 specific enzymes. methionine synthase is one part of the process is impaired. In a cell that's supposed to normal anymore. So when it's time for them to be and they don't work like normal. Kind of like... In the mitochondria, powerhouse of the cell, A Mutase, which generates a chemical that's used why you'll see Vitamin B12 supplements saying Energy," but reality is, the resulting chemical is proteins. The problem is, when Methylmalonyl the chemical that's supposed to be consumed, a chemical that's used to make the fat in and the myelin starts to degenerate, causing reflexes. But it wasn't just the myelin that was also no longer make the right fats, causing GG's vitamin B12 levels in his blood were the B12 was still in his body, it's just that ordered another blood test for methylmalonic if Vitamin B12 were present and functioning, upper limit of normal, meaning GG has all the Not getting enough B12 is more common than you of the nutrients that they need. I had a Animal proteins are a good source of B12, but I had had for at least 10 years before. My cognitive impairment, at least not that I knew I figured out I had this problem when I because they contained Vitamin B12, and I couple cans. I did order my own blood test for For GG, if he has inactivated Vitamin B12, vitamin B12. You can't really overdose on excreted in the urine. And, he would This misuse has been happening for a long time. because there is a legitimate culinary use for cream cans. There's a legit medical use for it that came from 2024 TikTok is a new generation contaminated with other gases, and they can blood cells. Othertimes, people will get nitrous they choke on the balloon and die. Compressed so this can cause frost bite and permanent the biggest reason why you wouldn't want to thing doesnt matter as much her, is that it'll For GG, after several months of abstaining B12 supplements, he was able to think again, a But he still had trouble standing and walking on severe than a deficiency, because deficiency But taking something that deliberately inactivates much quicker rate and cause permanent damage, Thanks so much for watching. Take