Ly Tu Tieu Hello all dear friends! How are my friends? I miss you guys so much. Thank you all for sharing your words with me. I will try to overcome the difficult days, to have a better life. Another New Day Begins. Today I will start working on the bathroom area. I will dig the dirt to create a bathroom floor. It hasn't rained in our place for a long time, so the ground is very dry and hard. For convenience, I will make a separate bathroom. uri Hello all dear friends. I sent workers to construct the downstairs part of the house I just bought. Do you have enough cement to do the project? This part of cement is enough to do the project. If you're working here, if you're missing anything, just let me know. I have finished the floor of the bathroom. Now I will go cut Bamboo. I will cut down the bamboo trees behind the house. Mom stays home and I go to work. Sit down here, I have something to tell you. What's the matter, mom? Okay, just sit down on the chair. The other day, my mother went shopping and met Van at the shop. Mom heard Van calling someone. and had a plan with that person to kill him or her. At that time, my mother could only hear a few words. So my mother followed Van to the house to commit suicide. Mom heard Van and Tu Tieu again, talking to each other very affectionately. It's not like Van was talking to someone at the bar. So my mother went home again, but she felt uneasy. But my mother was afraid that Van would harm Tu Tieu, so she came back to chase Van back. But my mother couldn't chase her back, so she was very angry. Mom called her child but she was in the house and there was no phone signal. mom. A few days ago I also heard Tu Tieu talking. Van asked Tu Tieu to tell her child to join her company to work. But I do not accept going to the company to work. I've already talked to Van and won't let her come see Tu Tieu anymore. but Van still came to see Tu Tieu. Now I go to the wood workshop to work and then I will go to the funeral home. Then I will tell Tu Tieu to be careful with Van. It's not okay for Van to always harm the dead like that. She just came back from prison and still can't give up her bad deeds. Now go to work and then go to Tieu's house. I told you to be careful with Van. Khong Tu Tieu was gentle and let Van continue to harm her. Yes. So now you just go to work. Mom also goes to the store to buy some things for the workers at home. Mom also finds it hard for workers to work. So mom, just buy water for the workers to drink for me. Now I have to go to work. I will cut bamboo trees to make columns and floors for the bathroom. Hi everybody. My workers are also carrying out construction, to complete the new items. Even my new worker is very hard working. Everything at the wood workshop is going very well. High-end chairs require experienced workers to make them. The citizens here do these jobs very well. This is a sticky rice basket. I've finished it, now I'll bring it to your house for you to enjoy. I help you manage everything at the wood workshop. He brought sticky rice to the house for the child to eat. Yes. Honey, please come in and buy some things. Hello auntie... Trang. You're not going to work today. I have work at home today so I'll take the day off. Why do you go shopping for so many things? Why do you go shopping for so many things? So who are you going with? I walked here, dear. Uncle, it's convenient to go home, let me take you home. Yes, I'll let you go home with me. I will move the bamboo trees closer to home for convenient work. I will measure the height of the pillars to cut the bamboo. I will cut the base of the bamboo tree to make a bathroom column. I went to Zi Tieu's house, I wonder if she's home? Looks like Zi Xiao is at home, and she's doing something. I greet you. I brought you something. I made you a pot to cook sticky rice. You're made of wood, right? I made it from the root of a palm tree. Your sticky rice cake is very beautiful. This sticky rice place has a lot of rice, right? You just need to put rice in here and that's it. Do you work in a wood factory? Yes, I worked at the wood factory, then brought it back here to you. I saw you harvesting gac, so I made a place for you to use. Your beautiful sticky rice bowl. Please leave the sticky rice in the kitchen for me. Yes, I'll put it on the floor so it doesn't get dirty for sticky rice. I see what you're doing. I'm building a bathroom. Are you going to work today? I have. I just got here from the wood factory. Sit down here and drink water. Well, let me see how you make the bathroom. I plan to build a bathroom in this area, is that okay? And here, water is also convenient for daily use. Yes, there is water here too. If I do it like this, will the area be too small? okay bro. I'm the only one so I don't need a large area. Now I'll go inside for you a little more. And I will level it out for you. The bathroom will be larger. And I can leave things in this area. You can put the bathtub, and the soap, everything here. Hoeing is very tiring and dirty, so let me do it for you. I'll go home and have a drink. It's okay, let me help you. Hoeing will dirty my clothes and shoes... it's okay. I'll go home and drink some water and do it later. Well, just let me help you. I'll go home to cut some bamboo poles. You can use bamboo to make poles. Have you measured yet? I measured it bro... Is that so? Did you cut that pillar? Yes, there are two for me to take out here. I cut two bamboo sticks to make poles. Yes. Let me dig a hole to bury the pole.... you can do it too... then I will dig this land. Did you go to the wood workshop this morning? That's right, I went to the wood workshop and brought the sticky rice to you. Have you dug that hole in the ground yet?... I want to dig it a little deeper, sir. It's okay to be that deep.. Yes. Let's go home and play. Come into my house and sit down and have a drink. Yes. Please sit down on the chair. Uncle, my family is working in the kitchen downstairs. That's right, my house has workers working in the basement. Uncle about you. How is your work at the company? I'm also getting used to the job. At first, I wasn't used to the job, but after a long time I got used to it. If you invite me to drink water, I'll drink water too... Yes. What work do your parents do? My parents are traders. My mother often sells fruit. So how many brothers and sisters do you have in your family? There are two sisters in my family. My sister is also married, her husband's family lives very far from here. Have you loved anyone yet? I don't have a boyfriend yet. Because I just graduated, I want a job. Now you are young and should settle down in your job. Then find a mature man to love. My family also has two sisters, so I also want to find a lover nearby. So that I can help my parents if I have a job. Will my project be finished in two or three days? I probably won't be able to finish it in another two or three days. If it's needed at construction sites, just send workers there to work. If there is a shortage of workers, the project cannot be completed in time for customers. It's okay, I will arrange workers to work. This is my family's work, you can stop now. I have another house. That house I don't live in anymore. Right now, there are only two mothers and children at home, one person at a time is not convenient. Now I come here to live with uri. I invite you to drink water. Is your old house nearby? My old house is also very far from here. That's why uri bought this house near the wood factory. So you just moved here, right? That's right, I just came here to stay. It's too late now. I asked for your permission and I went home. Let me measure and cut bamboo to make the bathroom floor. So I'll just cut one, I'll go get the wood. There are still trees there, right? Last time I made a hut for you, I still have it. Okay, I'll hold it here for you. This part is redundant and must be cut off. Brother, you drink water. I thank you. Your hands are dirty, let me help you drink water. I will help Zi Tieu, make her a bathroom. Tu Tieu is a woman who also needs a private area. I need to fix the tree with nails and steel wire. These nails are short and not sturdy. So I will tie it with steel wire. Thanks to uri, even though it was a lot of work, he came to help me build the bathroom. I will also cut bamboo trees to make the floor of the bathroom. I'm happy to be with uri. by his side. I feel very secure and protected. Let me help you cut the bamboo pieces. Tu Tieu is a very good and hardworking girl. I don't know the man who comes to my wood workshop to work. Also looking for a wife with the same name as Tu Tieu. I'm very worried about whether that man's wife is the Zi Tieu I'm in love with? I'm also very worried about this. If she is his wife, I don't know what to do. Well, let God arrange everything. If it's true that Tu Tieu is his wife, then I will wish you two happiness. I will cut bamboo to beautify the bathroom floor. Let me supplement it for you. We will take newly cut bamboo sticks to fix the bathroom floor. We will cut down trees to weave the walls of the bathroom. I will cut bamboo trees to weave them into the bathroom walls. I brought it outside to make it easier. If you sit there, it will be very difficult to work. I'll call the table up here so you can sit more easily. he moved to this side to be wider. I'll sit here and break pieces of bamboo for you. Just ride your bike and I'll knit it for you. but there's still a shortage of bamboo orchids....Okay, just sit there and I'll do it. Can you knit? I can knit, let me help you. ah, honey. This morning I heard my mother say, a few days ago Van came to see you. Yes. Van came here to see her sister and when her aunt saw Van here, she chased her away. Actually, Van coming here won't do you any harm. Van also helped me. Van is not a good person. It's best that you don't see Van too much. But since the day the police arrested me, I see that Van has changed a lot. Last time I went shopping and met two young men who intended to harm me. At that moment, Van came and helped me. Really. But I don't want you to see Van too much. She has harmed me many times. I know you're very worried about me. but he doesn't have any bad intentions. I will listen to your advice and not see her again. but he also met Van to talk. I told Van not to come see you anymore, but why does she still come here to find you? Because Van helped me a few days ago, I came here. But you still have to pay attention to Van. When I saw my mother say that, I was also very worried about you. Yes, I know, I will pay more attention. I pay attention to Van, because I see that she is not a good person. uri was very worried about me, so he said that I would listen to him. Let me help you... no need, just do it there. Need to knit another one. Need to knit another one. Okay, let's sit down and rest. Please drink water.... Yes, please. You're really good at knitting railings. It's okay, I can do these things. Okay, let Mr. Be go outside. I put it on that side first, go on that side. Okay?... Okay bro... Let me tie it here first. Is it okay on your side?... Okay, dear. Let me tie that side first... Yes... I'll keep it for you. Okay let's bring the barrier out here. Let me go home. Get the bamboo brace... Yes, I put it right in that corner. Let me keep it nice and cover it...please keep it for me. Can I tie it yet? Let me tie it for you... I can tie it. Okay, okay? let's go home. I will leave this bamboo railing to make the next door. I can use this bamboo railing to make a door...Yes. Please sit here... Well, you can sit here. I invite you to drink water... Yes, thank you. Dear Tu Tieu... Yes. There's something going on, I don't know if I should tell you or not. Is there something wrong? At my wood workshop, I hired a new person to work. He just worked at the company and had to find a wife. and his wife also has the same name as you. I also had to think a lot before daring to tell you. But last time I took you to the wood workshop. He also worked there. Have you seen it? Actually, last time I went to the wood workshop. I also saw a person who looked very similar to my husband, but I couldn't see his face. And I don't know if that was my previous husband or not. But if you go there to work, will it affect your company? He didn't affect my company, but he worked very well. But I think it's just the same body shape. Because of my ex-husband, he doesn't work hard. Can you go down to the wood workshop now, to see him with me? but. It's okay, just go down to the wood workshop and see him. See if he is my relative. But if it's your ex-husband, he won't leave your life alone. Because I know his personality well. Every time I go out with friends and come home drunk, he beats me. If your ex-husband loved you half as much as I love you... then my life wouldn't be like this now. But I saw that he went to the wood workshop and worked very hard. Now, just go down there and meet him once if you're a relative... If you ever meet your ex-husband again and he hasn't changed. That wouldn't be good for my life. But I see he works very hard. Go there and meet me. If he's really your husband, let's talk clearly. I think it will be very difficult for him to work and find relatives at the same time. I also love you very much, but you should also talk to that person. So now I will go with you. But if I go down there and meet my real husband. Then I will advise him to go home and not have to look for me anymore. And I don't want him to work at your company either. If so, it will affect your work later. I know my ex-husband won't change like that. Okay, now go change and I'll take you down to the wood workshop. Yes, I'll sit down and drink water and wait for you... okay. I hope that's not Tu Tieu's ex-husband. because I loved Tu Tieu very much. Are you done? Let's go.... Yes. Come in and call me. Learn here and I'll ask you a favor. It will be okay, my dear. Is there something wrong? he's out. Director called me for something? Hello. Is Tu Tieu your husband? Can you take off your mask for me? Yes. That's not it, sir. This is not my ex-husband. Probably his wife just has the same name as me. Is this the wife you're looking for? Yes, that's not true. But why do I find this classmate very familiar? I feel like I've seen him somewhere before. Are you familiar with Mr. Hoc? She must have seen it wrong. It's true that I've seen him before, but I don't remember... honey So is he your husband? No, he is not my husband. but... Ah, I remember. He is a friend of Van. Anh Hoc himself went with a friend to the house where I was staying. Hoc, are you familiar with Van? Is it Van who is fat? Yes, it's true that Van is a bit fat. You are Van's friend, what is the purpose of coming to my company? Director, I came to the company for no purpose, I just want to make money. Actually, while I was looking for my wife, I was having difficulty with money. and while I was looking for my wife, I met Van. etc. helped me to have some work to do. As for this friend's house, I've actually been there once or twice. But I asked the Director not to fire me, because since the day Van was arrested by the police, I have no longer contacted her. I just want a stable job, please Director, don't fire me. Okay I need to investigate this. If you no longer have anything to do with Van, I will let you work here. If you continue to contact Van, I will definitely fire you. I will definitely not contact Van, please believe me, director. Please Director, don't fire me. Now the director won't let me work here. I don't know where to go either. I promised the director that from now on I would not work with Van again. Because Van Toan did bad things, I didn't want to do them either. If I were still working for Van and my wife knew, she wouldn't come back to me. Okay, egan helps you investigate the relationship between Anh Hoc and Van. If I knew you were working for Van, I would invite you out of the company. Yes I promise the director. For now, I'll let you stay here and work. If I find out you work with Van again, I will invite you out of the company. Yes, yes, I promise the director just trust me. Now go to work. egan Now I'm learning that as a person related to the pattern, you need to pay more attention. Yes, I will pay attention to the relationship between you and Van. For now, let me study and work here and see how it goes. I'll leave this to you. Just keep an eye on me. Learn to help me. Because being Van's person would not be good. Now go back to work and I'll take Tu Tieu home. Well goodbye. Now I will take you home...Yes. I took you to the wood workshop, and I learned that he was Van's person. One time he and another person came to my house. But I still pay attention to my studies. I also told Egan to pay attention to my studies. After drinking water, I will take you home. Yes. Brother, watching him study makes me feel sorry for him. He didn't know what his wife was like, but he kept looking for her. I hope he finds his wife again. Okay, let's drink water. Fortunately, the wife I learned to find was not you. Thank you for following. Goodbye.