I'm the champion. Despite the looks of it, When you do this you shouldn't be scared. It's part of our job as assistants. We Africans do this for fun. We work as assistants for the drivers We are paid to do this. Assistants like Yao are paid but also to entertain customers A passenger who is entertained Isn't what you do dangerous? Without risk, you gain nothing. We've all fallen off the Badjan before. I almost died myself. I was hanging onto the Badjan on the side when suddenly a big truck I was clever enough Their balancing act practiced in the neighborhoods. There are several moves required. This move is called Dima Remord. You see, it's not complicated. We're are having a great time doing this. Doing this is better than flying. Working as assistants, It isn't much, but as they all say, the adrenalin rush The Ivorian youth and their energy It has made it the world's not to mention cotton Ivory Coast has become renowned for its cocoa production. When the Prime Minister came However, they didn't restore the road. This is crap. Going from one town to another Watch out, the truck will fall over. The country has lost count caused by homemade vehicles. If you see us cutting and welding parts it's because we can't afford The price of cocoa so, when it falls, Ivory Coast suffers. That's my boy, You see on television However, we don't earn anything. To alleviate poverty, but modernization Getting the goods You don't know This is why some people It's hell here, we work hard We want the road to be fixed. All the drivers are asking for this, the day it's fixed, The challenges but their will to move Everyone here calls him the elder. How's it going? Great. A mark of respect to maintain a link I'm trying to get my truck To tackle the road. It's not easy. Look, the frame is broken here. His truck is ready for the junkyard. It's the state of the road that did this. If we don't repair it, it won't last long. Yakou can always call They restore the old vehicle When I come for maintenance, Everyone owes him a favor. Thanks to his courage, families are able to keep However, being 64, Yakou is tired and would like to pass on When you change the oil, Okay, got it. However, getting his hands dirty is not exactly the I would like to be an artist. When I see rappers performing, I would like to be like them one day. His father sees him as a future road star. The passengers pile in, Everyone appreciates with four wheels and a running engine. It's not full yet, we'll get by like this. The road isn't very long, but in this rainy period, Yakou takes between six to eight hours It's daunting, but it's a remarkable feat. In his 40 years of driving, I started this job at the age of 25 I'm very careful. While he waits to replace his father, Without him, the journey is impossible. This road, discourages even the most fearless. I'm the only one who makes the journey. There used to be ten trucks making There are young people but they haven't succeeded. They have given up on the road, I really care about this truck This truck is my life. It's how I feed my family. He knows what he's doing, the way he crossed it. An inexperienced driver Everyone in the back, suffers in silence. We can't even sit down, There are women and children. So when it shakes like that, it scare us. The passengers I'm going to get off, The road is bad, when we get stuck, Yakou charges EUR3 per passenger but the men Please, guys, come and help us. Come. We need to place the wood. Elder, leave what's there in its place. That way it will be sturdier. On the road, The planks are regularly Come on, you have to put more wood on, Elder. You went through At this point, I'll make it. Dao is always impressed to see his father Put it here and adjust the end. When it's fixed, I'm going to go over it. They have to repair My father is brave, He's a real chap, The father and son want Sleeping under the stars is not an option However, it's not looking very good. In two hours, Formula One drivers could not imagine Steer. All that God does is good. I love you all. Tardiness does not prevent happiness, Cristiano. Positive messages At the Genoa bus station, since the 1970s, This minibus built by Renault However, here, some talented to their original condition. This is how we make them. This is sheet metal, Old trucks are used as a foundation. This is an iron plate, We start with a simple frame to arrive at a truck in good condition. So that's how it's done. These suspension blades are done for. It's important to have strong, because the road is rubbish. The Badjan weak point is, They break all the time. Hey Dje, come and help us, look at your crazy friends over there. Zu never stops fixing them. Like all the other parts of his Badjan, they break down one after another. I'm 41, my truck is 45, 56, Hammer. He's been trying to fix If you see us cutting it's because we don't have In these conditions repairs take time, I've totally wasted the day today. At his request, the mechanics worked fast at the end of the day. Tomorrow is an important day. I pray to God it won't rain By having the vehicle Zum's car is at risk of breaking down. The bus station in Genoa However, it only appears so. Each driver waits his turn whoever they may be. Zum is on edge. He wants to get on the road quickly to make up Hey, tell him to move his tuck. Why should I move? Easy there, The Badjan trucks have 22 seats. You are three people, right? Get in. Zum has asked his assistants It's tight, but we'll manage To attract the passengers, Hey, that's my seat. You lied, the seats are not numbered. Of course there are numbers, Bastard. Every time people are yelling, The discontent is rising. The 60 kilometers To make matters worse, He has an idea in mind. I like to drive fast. It allows me to go That is, if the car's mechanics hold up. On this road, getting to the final However, it remains one Between March and October, The whole country is busy which yields profits. In 40 years, Ivory Coast has become A beautiful title with a bitter taste. This tremendous financial opportunity and has dramatic At a time when most children others are going deep into the forest. Eleven year old Johez with his friends These are my little brothers, Between harvests, they go to school but apart I'm going to work on our cocoa field, However, when I arrive, I'm already tired Johez, Pythagoras and Thales have walked Where is the path? You have to walk past When they arrive at the field, According to UNICEF, there are well over 500,000 children Here are some pods, To remove the pod, to where the flowers grow on the tree. Once cut, you put the pod on the ground. When you handle My boy, You have to clean up around the truck. You have to take care It has to be free, Spirits, help me to leave this suffering. Farmers like Basil earn You see on TV that chocolate sells We can't afford to send We can't even feed ourselves. When you break them and you see that you won't earn anything and you mustn't mix them We have to throw them away. This is how I suffer in the field. Spirits, help me to leave this suffering. I don't want the children The work on the cocoa field At the end of the day, Johez The treats of the jungle It's mating season for the termites. The Queen's leave to found new colonies. Some of them won't get very far. In Ivory Coast, but thousands of small producers The delivery men take Here, take this. What have I done? It's to teach you respect. Zakaria spends his days According to the driver, it's to toughen him up On the road, Driving here is more difficult In the fields, when you work However, you drive you have to keep going. Zakaria has just loaded although he hasn't touched Come on, do some work. Chocolate. Put those bags The manager of the cooperative sheltered before the rain comes. During cocoa season, You know what time but you never know what time Zakaria has other concerns. Are we going? Fix my rear mirror. A lorry is waiting for them it will transport the beans to the port. However, perhaps the cargo The truck faces its first speed bump We have to release the rear as well. The truck has sunk Everybody in the back, No one is really pushing, We are pushing. You shout more than you push. If we carry on like this, Release the wheels quickly, This is not a joke, Back up. After an hour of effort. It's not easy, we do it As we say, there is no other option. On the Ivorian roads, The drivers get on without complaining, to arrive quickly While Zakaria struggles to do more 300 kilometers further on, Zum, without a single worry How's it going man? When you drive fast, The passengers are not exactly Have you ever had any accident? Many accidents happen I have never had one, I pray that I won't. Praying, however, isn't always enough. At the worst moment while accelerating, the shock absorber repaired We told you to slow down. They narrowly escaped a disaster. The passengers are shocked, This is my third accident, we see it every day, we are immune to it. It's our daily life. The spring has broken again. We tried to tell the driver to slow down, There were women It's the road, it's not the speed. Twenty passengers find themselves stuck I was supposed to be at work at 2 p.m., What are you going to do now? Get the truck ready, On the roads of Ivory Coast, Without it, many truck drivers would be Pull, it's not fun, for God's sake. The truck is old, it will be as good as new. The patched up Zum doesn't head for the garage. However, for the bus station, with another That is, if he makes it The poor state of the roads It can take days to travel especially in the rainy season. Yakou, whom everyone calls the elder, In the region, he's the last one with the most remote villages. The journey is hard for the passengers. In three hours, they've only covered When I see the state of the road, especially when I think of all the money that cocoa harvest Without my truck, Clearly the inhabitants of the forest The elder is a good driver, back to town to pick up He's so great. Six hours later, they're finally home. The journey is over, I'm going to see my grandchildren. Look how everyone welcomes me. You should come every day. Thanks to him, pregnant women can go to town. There are still villages further away. We'll try to reach them to help them. When he picks up all the passengers, a nice sum that allows him Dao, his eldest son can't stand I don't know exactly how to help him. That's why I go with him, Every school holiday, He knows the sacrifice his father made It pains me that At his age, he should be taking he has to feed the family. Since we haven't finished school yet he still has to finance us I am proud of my father. When we, his children, we will help him. I will fight until my last breath Dao push. When he graduates from high school, a singer or a civil servant. Push hard, Yakou doesn't want to hear it. It's unthinkable for him My son, I'm in the process When he gets his license, Although he does everything Dao is worried about inheriting the truck. However, the trouble of inheriting It will play an important role Seen from above, These cocoa fields indicate that 80 percent of the forest Yet another resource seems to be bringing Today, the workers are digging for gold in search of the vein To get down, you have to grab the pole. You have to check that they are secure. You put your feet on it and you go down. Fifteen meters below, However, that doesn't matter. Between starving to death, growing cocoa, men like Remark This is the formwork, it can collapse The first step is to remove These rocks contain gold. The ones that contain the most gold Do you find a lot of gold here? Not enough, there's a little but not much. There's not much, Romaric refuses to work I was a student before, to pay for my education. When I stopped studying, I had to come here. Ivory Coast is a country on the rise, My dreams is to find a goldmine, Then to make a beautiful family, and live on the land of my ancestors. This is where I was born, On the surface, A little further on, to dig tunnels are scraping Thanks to gold, I am six years old, I work here to pay For these families, looking for gold It's hell here. We work hard and we earn almost nothing. We only have enough to eat, that's all. Fighting, never giving up, That's the motto of the Ivorians. Zakaria and his assistant Lamine, 50 kilometres down the road to take them to the port. It's not a great distance, In six hours of travel, it's the other tire You can't get down there It's like this all the time, Especially for the assistants. It is done? Is it released? Everybody behind and push. Zakaria takes two hours to cover It's hard to imagine would let its road network According to Suleiman, the courage of the Ivorian drivers No matter what happens, the goods always arrive No one in the government really considers When the prime minister they filled in the holes, It was laterite They didn't put any asphalt. Our wish is that the road is repaired, all the drivers are asking for it. The day it's repaired, From this point on, the road is very bad. This main road is one for transporting goods in Ivory Coast. It leads straight to the port of Abidjan. If you have a big load, Otherwise your cargo goes overboard. The drivers face We even get overtaken by bikes, When a patch of asphalt appears, This makes the road particularly fatal Tie up the logs, It's the steering mechanism that broke. There was a woman who was standing However, The driver doesn't bother He takes off again immediately. The poor condition for the numerous accidents. In contrast, one stretch of the road It appears that a guardian angel Abu is a victim of the road. He was hit by a car when he was younger. The idea of begging so despite his paralyzed leg, One day I got up were causing a lot of accidents. So to change this, I said to myself That's why I committed myself to the road. Over and over again, I am here seven days a week. I've already repaired Thanks to those who are kind to me, I can earn two to three euros a day. Given my situation, I have a wife and two children. I'm very tired. His courage saves lives. Thanks to him, the holes all disappear travel much slower all day. To show gratitude The Ivorians do not lack courage Their life isn't so easy here. Dao and his father are still having The wheel is spinning in the air, I will get a plank then. It's not high enough, we have to add more. They are trying to reach It's been a while since any other vehicle The village has been totally isolated These are just small puddles, where we're going, Close the door and push. Even though he's been holding without a break, I'm in good shape, I relax on the days I don't work. Young people Except for me, It is for this very reason that Dao The young man dreams of an easier life. Right now I would like to be in Abidjan, to be in Paris but I have no choice. Right now I'm in this truck helping my father because he's all alone. You have to push, you didn't do anything. I'm so exhausted, I'd like to turn around It's not yet the end of the journey. He's been driving, or rather trying In the back, the passengers at least After ten hours, Yakou still finds the art and the way After 12 hours, as well as a change I tip my hat to you, that you are a good man. With all the suffering you have gone If you want to continue If you want to go into music, However, if you want to take over, this truck is yours. Yakou gives his son a chance to get an education. If the 500,000 children went back to school like Dao, would lead their country to great success.