- This is the largest slice Look how long it is! This pizza is literally six - My ego is shattered. - [Joey] It just doesn't stop. It's still going, it's still going. It's so big. - And this is Joey Chestnut, the fastest competitive - I'm hungry! - And not only does he for hot dogs eaten, but Here's a quick montage of it. (fast-paced rock music) He literally holds the world record for holding the most world records. This guy is insane. And before we eat 18 pounds of pizza, let's see how much Chris, Combined, me and the We should be easily able to out-eat Joey. - We're big boys! - He only weighs 229 pounds. - [Chris] What? - Well, I was a big mama! - Mr. Joey, here is your - I'm really hungry right - This is nine pounds. It's like you're eating Chris' baby. - Yeah, I'm... - [Voiceover] Bruh. (Mr. Beast laughs) - [Chris] We're doing what now? - And this is our slice of pizza, boys. It is massive! - If I eat the crust, I'm gonna throw up. He's gonna demolish that whole thing. - We have two identical slices of pizza and me, Chris and Chandler before Joey eats his. - Woo, we're gonna win! - Well, like I showed you He could probably out-eat Even if we are constantly I don't think we'll be - [Chandler] No. - It doesn't make sense. - I agree, guys. (boys chuckle) - You might be thinking there is no way this one man right here can This isn't any ordinary man. Joey Chestnut is a freak of nature. He is literally the best It is now time to begin. Joey, give us a countdown Five. Four. - [Chandler] Get ready boys, get ready. Three. Two. - We cannot let him out-eat us. - [Joey] One. Eat! All right, what do we do? Okay, all right, so he's - What the freak is he doing? - This is as fast as I can eat. - He's literally beating us already. There's three of us. - I've almost got a slice now. - Wait, so he's doing a foldy thing. - I think so. Holy- - [Chris] There's no I'm already full. - That's disgusting. (pizza slams) - Oh my god! - It feels like I'm eating a rug. (swanky music) - He's eating way faster Go give him a violation, I don't know. Just go stop him. - You're not cutting it thoroughly. There's not enough cutting going on. I'm gonna need you to- - [Voiceover] Nope. - He's not listening to me. I don't think he knows I'm here. - And he's in the zone. He's like a great white shark. I'm not gonna lie, I don't that's in my mouth. - It is much easier to take a bite and take a sip and eat it. - Yeah, but it tastes so bad. (speedy pop music) - There's no way you're doing this. I'm about to barf, my How are you still eating? Honestly, I didn't consider that. - I know I'm a ref, but I'm here to bribe. How about 10 grand and But, I need you to acknowledge that you can ever hear me right now. Because, I can't tell. I'm not gonna lie. - Oh, that's a no. - That's the most ferocious no I've ever witnessed in my life. - He came into this and he's gonna kick our butts. - I'm gonna take this - So I just wanna remind nine pounds of pizza. It's like eating 10 pizzas by yourself. Words cannot express I mean, you still got Are you gonna be able to finish this? - I'm gonna finish it. - Really? - You guys aren't gonna finish? - No way. No, we're doing it. - I don't see how you're gonna do this. (Joey burps) You would think being a but this sucks. - Yo, you guys gotta stop talking and eat. Look at this man, he's almost done. - Yo, I got the pizza sweats bad. I don't even really like pizza - Same. pizza after this. - This is making me angry. I can't eat pizza like this. It's incorrect. - Oh my goodness. Look how much he's eaten. He has like two feet left. So his pizza is this long. We still have twice as We're not even close. We're tagging you in, - Okay. - Bro, you're gonna get sick. - All right, guys, let's So let's try to catch up. - (groans) I think three bites. I don't even... (boys gag) - I'm gonna eat over the trashcan. - Who would've thought is really good at eating? I had no choice but to There's no way Joey can Tyler, come on in. - Oh. I'm actually really hungry. - [Mr. Beast] Tyler, do what Joey's doing. - Oh, no way. if you don't mind, could you not slobber over our pizza we have to eat. - [Tyler] We're trying I really feel like I've eaten - There's more pizza on your hand than everybody else has eaten. - Joey, more like slowy! (men groan) Oh my god, dude, Tareq, point this camera at the size of his stomach. He was skinny before and He has 10 pounds just chilling He's literally about to finish. I've probably eaten 10% of what he's eaten and my eyes are watering. I'm crying in pain. I can honestly say this than counting to 100,000. - I just wanna go home. - I'm gonna go poop. (farts) - He's not gonna come back. - [Tareq] Guess what's going - Pizza. - It's going down a bit slower But, I'm not looking as bad as them. - Dude, we're trying. - I'm in pain. - This is Tyler's friend, Jackson. I'm tapping you in, go. Jackson is bringing - That was literally - He was doing so well, Carl. His stomach has to be full soon. Let's all kick it into hyper drive. Now, I know this looks bad, all of us getting and honestly, I don't I guess there's a reason holds 50 world records for eating food. He's really good at it. Boys, I brought even more help. Head on in, Dustin. - There's now seven of - [Chris] And he's only - Whoa! If we manage to beat him, - All right, bet. Time to get 100 grand! Woo! - I should've done that sooner. We might've won. - [Tareq] Hey Jimmy, how do you feel? - I don't feel good. - For our safety, slow down. We're gonna die over here. - Come on guys, finish it. (Chris laughs) - Go Joey! Go! - Tyler's the only person to ever cheer for the opposite team. - Hey, he's the winning team. - Think about this, he had a and all that is left is Guys, I hate to admit it One final bite. Oh my god. - It was rough, but I found a rhythm. Kept using the water to get it down. - Clearly. - [Chris] Oh, we gotta weigh him. We gotta weigh him. Before we started, we weighed Let's go see what he weighs now. - That was one of the hardest - Step on the scale. Let's see how much weigh you gained. No way! - He weighs 250 pounds now! Let me go grab something from the back. Joey, step on the scale. 250 pounds. Joey, you literally gained 21 pounds. - It was a hard challenge, knowing I was gonna finish it. Towards when I got the second half, I was like, &quot;Oh, it's going down.&quot; And then, when you guys - Yeah? - Really? - You literally have 21 Just how? How does that feel? - I feel kind of bloated, feel tired. - Yeah? It's gonna take some recovery time. Before, we weighed 537 and now we weigh 547. We put on 10 pounds, but we still lost. And to celebrate Joey winning, I made him this pizza trophy. Here you go. - It might not be as and trophies you currently have, but I hope it means a lot. - It's one of the hardest trophies I've ever had to get. I've never had to work - Thanks for coming out. - Now, if you wanna be in the future, hit the subscribe button because we're gonna start to be in more videos. I'm not even joking. If you wanna be in a future Joey is insane. See you later. Mr. Beast 6,000 oh Mr. Beast 6,000 and you know his name He changed it once or twice But I think it's here to stay (explosion booms)