Who else loves s'mores? I'm gonna be honest, if it has s'mores I know FULL WELL it probably will taste nothing S'more ice cream? There. S'more M&amp;Ms? Got it. S'moreos? Sign me up. That's why, when I see the Stay Puft Marshmallow Hershey Bar Guy and the Oversized Graham Cracker That's when we're having a party, my friends, [Film Theory Theme Plays] Hello internet, welcome to Film Theory, the others are too afraid to ask...or have too But I'll let YOU decide which one it is! Man, in a summer crammed full with movies, Ghostbusters...but maybe not for the right I mean the original 1984 version is an undisputed Rotten Tomatoes. But then fast forward to today, where the the most disliked movie trailer in the history Let me say that again: THE MOST DISLIKED trailer Really? Really Internet? THIS is so much worse than THIS? &quot;Are you going bald?&quot; &quot;No, no, no, no, you're getting fatter, and your hair doesn't realize it needs to cover more face.&quot; Hey I'm not judging, there is no accounting stylings of Adam Sandler are truly transcendent. [Belches, then farts] Comedy gold. So the goal for today: make a video that you like at least slightly better than the Ghostbusters trailer. Well, I'm already starting at an advantage, Ghostbusters, reminding you of that happier into life-threatening situations was the epitome Truly, when you think of the original movie demonic David Bowie, THE most iconic image is none other than the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man. It's a moment so brilliantly absurd it became But while others were chortling away at Dan marshmallows by the fire at Camp Waconda here's saw the scene... could I EAT that? And sure, maybe there's some FatPat talking there, but hey, it's all in the name of science. So, today I'm answering the question that's calories are in the Stay Puft Marshmallow if I were to actually eat him? Now, for those of you who grew up not knowing on our chubbiest of bunnies: In the original Sumerian demon named Gozer who's haunting As you do, you know, the uzhe. As part of the final showdown, Gozer demands and the rest of New York City. While everyone else tries to keep their minds imagines &quot;I tried to think of the most harmless And you can't really blame him, because the movie. When we see the eggs in Dana's apartment Stay Puft marshmallows are there on the counter in the film we see a big mural for Stay Puft With all those brand integrations, poor Ray Subliminal advertising, guys! You gotta put a #spon on those sorts of things, Anyway, the great big Mallow Blaster appears, Manhattan into fluff. Hilarity ensues. So, let's figure out just how much marshmallow To do this, we need to make some assumptions Let's just say that he's made entirely need some kind of musculo-skeletal system snack food manifested out of Dan Aykroyd's so we're going to let the normal anatomy Plus, when he erupts, there ain't no viscera, we're safe. Now, the first step in determining how much just how large he is. In the movie, they give us a hint: "Killed But can we get more exact? ABSOLUTELY! In the DVD extras for Ghostbusters, Mark Stetson, scaled size of the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man We can also compare that to the surrounding buildings to confirm that this is the right range. So, for once, that made my life a bit easier, a bit trickier. Initially, I tried to determine the width at his scale compared to other landmarks in There's a shot where the Ghostbusters are them, and we can see that he is about the lines on the street. We know that this is about 50 feet, because Park West in New York. According to an 1892 edition of the World are 100 feet wide, so Stay Puft is half that. But we're still missing depth and the movie the side. And more importantly, even if we're right widest, how wide is his head compared to the If you watch this series a lot, you'll know of thing using pixel measurements, but Stay So in this case I'm using another measurement Marshmallow Man's irregular shape, and giving And that measurement is BMI. The statistic of BMI was created in the 19th relative thickness or thinness of a population by measuring average weight across average height. And for our purposes, it's actually perfect height to width for a human-shaped object. It doesn't matter if the person is ripped, or overweight, or happens to be composed entirely of sugar. And looking at the Marshmallow Man, he's stacked together--he's got folds and girth He's much more human than he is purely geometric. So knowing that, take a look at this chart Stay Puft is round and has relatively thick From a purely scientific perspective, Stay a very high BMI. And judging by the figures, a BMI of 40 is a good estimate, perhaps even a conservative one. Hey, we will have NO candy shaming on this But now that we have a height and a projected can calculate how much he would weigh. Or, more accurately, we can determine how then go from there. The formula for Body Mass Index states that in pounds divided by their height in inches Stay Puft's height of 112.5 feet translates When we square the height, multiply the BMI result by 703, we have isolated weight, which But now before you rage in the comments, no, Like I said, that would be the weight of the If the Stay Puft Marshmallow man were just You get it. What we're looking for the MARSHMALLOW Man. So we need to convert his weight from this what he would weigh as a marshmallow. To do that, we need to know what the density The density of human being does vary, but 1.01 grams per milliliter. Now we can adjust that weight of 103,698 pounds human density to the density of a marshmallow, a fifth the density of a human. So, doing all the math, that means the Stay 21,561 pounds, or about 9,500 kilograms. Which is actually surprisingly light for a For perspective, that's lighter than a typical may be a bit of a stretch. He's still a giant marshmallow. Even at such an enormous of a size, his squishy Stay Puft-ness would just puff off most well-made buildings. But I hear you in the comments saying "Geez, an ancient Sumerian demon, and not talk about And that's valid, I totally understand your So now that we know how much he weighs, figuring really no sweat. For reference, I used the nutrition facts something tells me they're not that different, four marshmallows, or 30 grams, 20 grams of When we convert the weight of Stay Puft in of calories per gram, we get our whopping out to be 32.6 million calories. Get ready to hit that Pilates class...a few If you wanted to consume that many calories, Coca-Cola, or eat 2.7 million peanut M &amp; Ms, or have 62,700 Big Mac meals from the Golden Arches. Considering that the average human life is have the Big Mac meal three times a day, every level of caloric intake. Which in turn, begs the question: Well, a good rule of thumb is that a typical So that would translate to you walking 326,000 And if that sounds like a lot, you don't The circumference of the Earth is just about So you'd have to walk around the ENTIRE you consumed. Man, I knew I should have ordered off the That Caesar Salad Titan was calling my name. Considering the average caloric intake for 44 YEARS worth of calories in a single serving. Hungry? Why wait? Eat a Marshmallow Man, you'll be set for life. And TALK ABOUT your sugar rushes. One 100 foot tall marshmallow man is the equivalent That's 7 American tons of sugar, the equivalent of sugar. It's nearly 1.5 million Oreo cookies--single inferior to Double Stuft, so it's actually You may have seen the studies about how much the course of our history. It's estimated to have risen 600% over the We now consume 130 pounds or 60,000 grams of sugar each year, which admittedly is a lot. But even with in the face of this huge increase years of constantly shoving sugar into your So needless to say, the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man does not seem to be part of a balanced diet. But the big question of the day remains: could Technically, the answer is yes, but the fine And the problem is with the sugar. Toxicologists believe that the lethal dose per kilogram of weight. I say believe because these are estimates; subjects who are willing to eat sugar until Sometimes it feels like I come close though! Sorry, that's FatPat talking again. For a 150 pound adult, that lethal dose would 1,000 grams, which, all things considered, If you were committed to eating the beast, you were through. Which means, in an ironic twist, the scariest force--remember, he's punching with less it isn't crossing the streams, it's his Forget getting stepped on, he would literally But hey, that's just a theory. A Film Theory, aaaaaand cut! But before I sign off, do you want to win How about winning up to $2,000 every day for It sounds like it's a scheme, but it's not. I was selected to host a new reality competition of July and you guys, you at home, have the Basically The Runner is a cross-country manhunt way across the United States without getting If he does it, he wins $500,000. But this is where you come in. It's up to five Chaser teams, and you guys win that money for yourself by solving clues the start of each day. You guys are theorists, you're totally gonna You win money by doing brain puzzles. That's it! So you interested? I hope so, 'cause it's legitimately really It's a new series not on YouTube, but on produced by Jason Bourne and Batfleck himself, Yeah, this is legit. The Chase officially begins tomorrow, July away $50,000 to lucky viewers. $50,000 tomorrow, so you'll definitely want To do that, you'll want to go to go90.com/therunner Don't worry, it's all free and links are in First episode starts at noon East Coast time, From there, I'll be coming to you LIVE to But again everything is totally free and none us doing regular GTLive livestreams. It's just really a chance for me to live out giving you guys a chance to win easy-to-win show, where you guys, over social media, are way across the country. So please consider checking it out LIVE every day in July starting at noon Eastern, 9 AM Pacific. And with that said, let the Chase begin!