(soft beeping) - Hey folks, Jake Baldino here. If I look tired, it's with the PS5 Pro since it arrived. So today, some first impressions on Sony's big, expensive console. No review unit for this one. I just went out and bought it myself. Don't make fun of me. So first impressions here, once we spent more time I will be talking about it more. But for now, I've jumped in, and yes, pretty much it's If you've read some of the reviews or if you just saw the and made up your mind already, this probably won't change that. Just off the jump, for me, or necessary as the PlayStation 4 Pro was. That felt like a substantial Here with the PS5 Pro, I just I don't have that excitement. I like tech, I'm an enthusiast, and this one is more complicated We'll get into all that. And yes, if you could tell on screen here, we are continuing our and actual consoles and hardware reviews. We're taking them in but we gotta stand out from like The Verge and Marques Brownlee, okay? So we're doing what we can. But if you don't know the gist, the biggest thing, of course, the elephant in the room with It is $700 in the US. Along with that, the thing is that it's another $80 As someone who has a I essentially had to buy this as well. Along with that, if you like to have this you need to pay an additional which is something PlayStation's but I don't know, it still just burns. So that is potentially over $800 all in, and that's not even counting whatever you have. And of course, if you live it's potentially even more expensive. So with that, of course, there's that immediate question of value. Is this really worth it? And again, it depends. Ultimately, yes, PlayStation And yes, technically, this is the best way to play but your mileage is gonna vary. And at this point, I feel like we're only because developers have They have to patch a lot for this thing to really take So it's going to be a while before I think we really see but for now, let's talk the hardware, the design, okay? So as you see on screen here, it is very much continuing the or revised PS5 from earlier this year. And when we reviewed that unit, I was on record saying, I I like that overall it's it's a little more slim, like all of that definitely I really just like the way it looks, but the most important So when you look at this or a launch PS5, the sizes It's the same height, like but the PS5 Pro is a So if you are a crazy person that is upgrading your PS5 to a PS5 Pro, you're used to this a bunch of room. So that's gonna continue, but And yes, if you're looking at my base PS5, like that ugly stand I I'm sorry, yes, but my But along with that, I wanna point out that with like other like PlayStation covers or PS5 Slim covers that you bought. That is unfortunate. I was hoping with all this that will carry over, but Benefits though, tech stuff is this comes with two which is very nice right as well as Wi-Fi 7 support. As a networking nerd, I Although I have seen some reports of people having some networking issues, specifically on Reddit, it seems like some people were having some Wi-Fi networking issues. So everyone's set up, I had no problems over but you know, keep your eyes peeled. And the big question, of You know, so far it hasn't than a regular PS5 and hasn't than my base PS5. Maybe a tiny bit more in of the air blowing through the vents, but it doesn't sound like or anything substantial like that. That can change, some games but as of right now, it It doesn't seem like how loud Overall, the console It just stands back with the but that's not really important. You're here for the games, the graphics and stuff like that. And again, a little but the big thing Sony was The bigger GPU for graphical performance, the AI-driven upscaling or PSSR, equivalent to something with DLSS or FSR. There are differences, of that's the best way to say it. Third, of course, advanced ray tracing. Right off the bat, ray tracing, I haven't really seen Like, yes, you can enable it. It still kills the frame rate. The bigger GPU is of course but it's not gonna make games look like completely different games. The thing here is the PSSR. I think potentially down the road, this has the most to enable essentially games a more upscaled image. That can potentially Now, again, like here at Gameranx, we don't have like equipment or anything like that I will always, and many of my colleagues will always recommend if you wanna count frames or pixels, but the better resolution for games like &quot;Final which when you played that to get that higher frame rate, that game had to look It had to lower the resolution. So here now there's less compromises and the game looks noticeably better. That's one of the few examples I think that really benefit And of course, that is also updating &quot;Final Fantasy VII Rebirth&quot; to take advantage of that. I haven't been able to that is getting a PS5 Pro patch, but &quot;Silent Hill 2&quot; was marked There are no additional graphic settings or anything like that with it, but I did notice it seemed That game did have some even in its performance mode, specifically in the open areas. I still kind of noticed that, but once I loaded a save further it did feel overall a little bit smoother. The big example was &quot;Spider-Man 2.&quot; I just love swinging around. I always have &quot;Spider-Man&quot; just for that. And yes, here I do notice a difference. The ray tracing you enable but the biggest thing really that lets you take advantage of the game having a higher resolution So like Mark Cerny said when this thing was first announced, it really does feel like And that is very cool to see. Where it is most notable though, and it's not gonna be for everyone, is if you have a TV that I wasn't able to capture but like, yes, setting that does allow that capability. I've already been benefiting but now with &quot;Spider-Man&quot; at like smooth as butter, it is noticeable. So I'll give them credit for that. The other big noticeable heavy was also &quot;Horizon Forbidden West,&quot; another flagship Sony title, able to take advantage of everything here, having its own special to really crank up the And yes, the game can Interestingly enough though, like you're still able to choose a mode that harnesses the power and still have only 30 frames But when you get that uncompromised mode, again, the thing that Mark Cerny said that they were going for here with a good looking resolution yes, it's cool, it's somewhat noticeable. Along with that, the game does have like a newer version of Game Boost, something that the PlayStation 4 Pro, I believe, and PS5 did have, but now essentially it has to improve the visual The results are gonna vary here, and frankly, I didn't see too much. A lot of people online have been talking about &quot;Bloodborne,&quot; that being the biggest thing. No, the game is not now thanks to the increased GPU power here or anything like that, but there is a very, very slight increase in visual sharpness. I'm talking like really small. We found it kind of hard to notice, but like a little bit more It is not a reason to go out and buy the PS5 Pro by any means. And on another note, I did download also another PS4 game, &quot;Red Dead Redemption 2,&quot; and I didn't really notice Now, if we are talking about PS4 games, technically this is a PS5 game, but &quot;The Last of Us Part this game was already pretty It looked great, it ran great, but now you have the option And I will say the results I have two TVs. I have a TV that is just a and then I have another one that takes advantage of the &quot;The Last of Us Part on my regular TV, it It almost looked like it was just added like a sharpening filter, and I didn't really It took my eyes a while to get used to. But when I did use all the proper settings to take advantage of like a I found it to look pretty The detail, the blades of but also everything looking was pretty cool to see. So again, you'll notice is like, &quot;Oh, high refresh So yes, this thing is much better. This $700 console is much better if you also have a very expensive TV. So yes, of course, there's of like, &quot;Well, wouldn't a PC be better?&quot; That's a different conversation. I think everybody's but I have seen a lot of &quot;Hey, PS5 Pro is only good if you have a high refresh rate TV.&quot; And I don't totally agree with that because you're still of frame rate stuff. Either way, long runaround way of saying, again, this is just first impressions and we've only been able to So yes, if money is no object, if you have no issues at all, buying this thing is technically, seemingly the best way to play PS5 games. Is it a massive, exciting upgrade? No. The games that aren't patched does it substantially change them? Does it really change the game? No. But for the people who yes, this is the best. It will give you a slight edge. Over time, I am excited some of these game I am excited to see Just like as somebody who like where that divide is and also PS5 Pro. Is switching on that really gonna shake things up? Or is it always going to people like us, the people really squinting at resolutions and trying to count frames per second? It is definitely for the enthusiast user and also the enthusiast user that has a ton of expendable Granted, every gamer is savvy and I know plenty of people and get the PS5 Pro and but I just don't find it as exciting to really do that right away. You know what I mean? This is, of course, me and really going by feel, just looking at what we got here after the first couple of days. So like I said, we'll keep you We'll probably do like a one month later or six months later or or was it worth it? But for now, these are Frankly, again, it didn't surprise me. If you're like me, you know, you're paying attention to gaming news, you're drilled into this stuff, it's pretty much what you expect. So those are the initial but I wanna hear from Maybe you're a PC player, that is just happily Maybe you are someone and bought into this. I would love to know Maybe you're somebody was holding out, and now Maybe you're none of these people, whoever you are, I do wanna So let us know in the comments. If you like what we do here though, and we're just talking clicking the like button does help us. We appreciate that. But as usual, thanks for watching. We'll see you guys next time.