- Does it feel like cities and more dangerous? Well, they have, but many think. Back in 2002, researchers noticed something area. It looked like there was and downwind of the city. It was as if the city or even creating them, but what was going on in Houston that could change the We know that rain, flooding and heat waves have become world, but we wanted that we've been doing a experiment without even knowing it? - When you really think about rain and clouds, the clouds are at way about the city. And the city in They are the small blobs. So there are instances where we have seen the there is a city down there. And the question is how? - Today more than half of the world lives in urban areas and major cities around to grow in the future. So if we're doing something it's important that we understand how. But this got me to wonder - if weather worse, can they - Are we coming to an era for climate controlled cities? - Two decades ago when researchers over Houston, they reasoned that rainfall might be They then used satellite NASA mission and found a inside and downwind of the city. But new research shows that Texas seems to be repelling its rural surroundings. So what's the difference? First off, this research was done by one of my favorite climate who I talked to about which as the climate warms in my Extremes, which you can watch Today, researchers have figured or attract storms, and in an era of and rain, the stakes are high where the majority of people live. But to understand what's to look at a totally Heat. We know that cities It's called the Urban Heat Island Effect. Let's look at how it works. First, cities use a lot and brick that absorb and retain heat. Second, the lack of and less cooling through And third tall buildings act as street canyons trapping activities like transportation This all means that large as 10 degrees Celsius warmer This year, Phoenix, Arizona The city saw temperatures or higher for a record and they spent a total of But just outside the city in a suburban Ranch, only 50 days reached 110 degrees. That's 28% fewer days. And as global warming continues our cities, the people who live But what does urban heat Well, that heat doesn't - In some instances because you start getting the air When you have generally your pressure goes down - And this localized area of low pressure can act like from nearby rural regions. - So you now have a region which and so the wind start - As the air heated by the city it creates upward motion or convection high into the atmosphere. The rising air cools causing moisture to condense into clouds, more concentrated storms and heavier rain. Researchers other cities, but were they isolated cases or part of a larger pattern and create storms? As global satellite researchers were finally able - We can use this data and also compare with to see if there is any urban difference show up from this result. - After analyzing rainfall data for over 1000 cities worldwide, a clear trend began to emerge. 63% of global cities had more surroundings, and the larger the city, the larger the effect. So how significant is it? They found an approximate 10% rainfall on average in large US cities. But that 10% hides some of the which we'll look at in a bit. They also found that - We separate the cities who are showing Urban Wet Island effects and then check the average magnitude of this rainfall anomaly. We find this number is increasing, it's almost doubled in the 20 years, - And it turns out that increasing explain the full extent of this effect. So what else is going on? Well, the answers are kind we have these tall buildings, that increase the roughness. - That's right. Cities as storms are concerned. This basically means that the buildings create as they pass over. Instead of gliding smoothly, by the tall structures causing which gives them more And then there's one final ingredient, and this goes out to all - And this is like you know, and that is pollution in the city. The cars that we use, the the particles start going into the sky and then they start And because of that, now the they're juicy with all the moisture. And if you have the right to precipitate over the city or they're going to get all that energy and then move downwind of the - One of the most dramatic examples of the Urban Rain Island Hurricane Harvey, a storm labeled as a once in a 2000 year 40 to 60 inches of rain in A 2018 study ran two different simulations of Hurricane Harvey hitting the city, one with Houston's urbanized landscape and the other replacing the the results were striking. Urbanization made the times more likely. The sheer amount of rain by the Urban Rain Island of the main factors that so devastating for Houston, Houston's rapid urban expansion has led to a significant increase as concrete and asphalt, which prevent water from being This left much of Hurricane to go resulting in catastrophic flooding. Economic damages were estimated at around $125 billion, making it one of the costliest natural This issue with impervious surfaces and flooding is a problem in And then when you factor of storms due to climate how vulnerable cities really are to rain and flooding events. - And as we go into the to have storms which are more juicier because they're going because they're warmer. And now you have an instability that's like a one two punch you're giving that storm and making it precipitate. what is happening in terms rainfall city by city globally. - So cities on average of climate change when it comes But in the beginning of that Austin is actually seeing less rain - When you see these one relatively emerging, and they showing opposite So it is somewhat similar air that shows the power of the terms of how it is churning and how that can change the So that was fascinating - And it turns out this mostly comes down to an unexpected detail - If I have a city like and it is a trapezoidal of the city is much longer than the other, then the storms actually - The exact reasons and shape affect rainfall in of active research, but the implications of this anti-rain island for helping make our cities - Rather than waiting for global treaties for all the world's nations and leaders to agree on Cities themselves can have a what is going to be their footprint, and perhaps that can change as the rainfall, and that is powerful. - To truly reduce the risk in cities and beyond, we have to reach as soon as possible. But in the meantime, we can of the problem at a local level, which I find quite inspiring. We can reduce impervious and cool the environment. We can rethink future to make them less rough And maybe most importantly, we can drastically reduce and strengthen storms. - I'm not saying putting more trees or planning a city differently What I do want to highlight whether we do vertical how do we use cooling, whether or by putting trees. All of that could have an environment will create whether the hurricane will pockets or it'll spread the rain. And when we are looking for where we feel completely - To learn how we can and the impacts of warming. Check out our new broadcast series, Weathered Earth Extremes on the PBS app. Have you been impacted by Has it affected your home or your decisions about where to live? Let us know in the comments and we'll see you next time on Weathered.