- We live in a world that's We admire child prodigies in music, natural athletes in but focusing on where to overlook the distance that (upbeat orchestral music) I'm Adam Grant. I'm an organizational and the author of, &quot;Hidden Potential: The Science (bright music) I got interested in this topic out as a springboard I was told that I walked that my coach's grandmother I couldn't even touch my toes Clearly the wrong sport for me. If I had judged my potential I would've quit. With an extraordinary I ended up becoming a Junior and an All-American diver. I ended up actually my potential. That happened to me again when as a professor. The comments from students were brutal. I remember one student nervous I was causing in their seats. Another student wrote that and didn't even tell me which Muppet. - But we should be looking for the answer. - I was not an effective teacher. I was too anxious. But once again, I had some and I put a lot of effort into watching great teachers, how I could become a in the classroom, and Lo and behold, the feedback I care deeply about this topic of potential because we for growth than we realize, on early talent and on initial miss out on the progress that One of my greatest disappointments in life has been seeing people We constantly underestimate and we're also vulnerable other people are capable of achieving. The measure of a leader's success is how much the groups they're in That means that if you their potential, you When I work with leaders, I of two traps when it comes One is that they're cheerleaders and the other is that they're critics. If you're a cheerleader, you and you try to harness their strengths, but there's good empirical that when we become too we start to use them as a crutch. And they can So if one of your strengths, you are at risk for to leading a meeting or giving a speech because you're so good at improvising and speaking extemporaneously, I don't think you just because you are in danger of letting people turn their I think the problem with critics is they often If you're constantly telling people what they're doing wrong, people Their motivation starts to falter. At some point, they begin to doubt whether I think the best leaders are neither cheerleaders nor critics. They're actually coaches. They see people's help them become a better They allow people to but not get complacent around them. They allow people to see their weaknesses but not get discouraged by them. And they remind people, &quot;Yes, you but you're capable of becoming And that energizes people as opposed to being or completely incapable of (bright music) To help people realize their potential, every coach needs to be (bright music) A lot of leaders end up waiting till performance reviews to That comes as a surprise who, for the last six months, If you deliver a message during a performance review to anybody on your team, you You have failed to give the feedback in real time so that adapt, and make an effort at improving. The longer you wait, the harder it gets to and the less likely they are in the first place. As a leader, I want to build the person up as opposed to tearing them down. A lot of us instinctively try to do that by serving up the feedback sandwich. Let me take a compliment, a piece of criticism, and and that way I can sandwich my critique between two slices of praise. Well, guess what? Empirically, the feedback as it looks. If the person you're serving they're not even going to hear the praise. They're just waiting for If they're pretty confident, to primacy effects and recency effects. So they're going to remember and the last compliment, and what happened in the middle is just going to What's much more effective is to start off by clearly segmenting your domains of praise from your domains So I would go into this &quot;I want to tell you a couple and a couple of things that Do you have a preference I'm not only clearly segmenting the praise from the criticism so that they can realize I'm also then making this as opposed to a one-way monologue. One of the biggest mistakes give feedback is they spend too and not enough time trying When you start to tell consistently, what makes them you invite their ego to show up. Nothing is going to get through. If you can tell people one or two things that they of trying to prove themselves, to figuring out how they A study published on this that you can make people to constructive criticism just by saying about 19 words before you deliver it: &quot;I'm giving you these high expectations and I'm and you should do that in your own words. That completely changes the &quot;I'm not attacking you, I'm here to coach you and help you grow.&quot; It turns out it is surprisingly from someone who wants And if I want to reinforce that further and take myself off the pedestal, &quot;Is there anything I can do better? Is there something you want me to know about how I can work more And that way we're building a foundation for a better collaboration as opposed to me just telling you Just like in a marriage, that would probably not work very well if you tell your spouse, As a leader or manager, If you show a willingness to grow, the other person is a lot more excited about trying to grow with you. (upbeat piano music) - [Announcer] Get smarter from the world's biggest thinkers. To learn even more from the get Big Think Plus for your business.