People keep asking me, &quot;How can I win more games of chess?&quot; I give them a very simple answer, &quot;Lesser games you will win.&quot; In today's chess video, I am going to show player makes. And plus, I also have an interesting chess So stay tuned till the end and keep watching Chess Talk. Hello Chess Friends, I am Jeetendra Advani. If this is your first time on this channel and become a better chess player, then start now by subscribing and clicking the bell so you don't miss any of my videos. Okay, so the number one mistake every chess the board. Hanging pieces are undefended pieces which can be easily taken by your opponent. There are 2 reasons why this happens. The first one is carelessness. Not noticing that your piece can get taken In this game, for example, white takes the He is threatening to checkmate and double attack on his next move. But he forgot to check the attackers on this square. This square is being attacked by Black's 2 Whereas, it is being defended by only one Eventually, white loses a minor piece and This is something that you need to avoid. So Every time you make a move, look for pieces that attack the square you move into. Another reason of leaving hanging pieces is that you can sometimes accidentally get rid of a defender. In this game, for example, black is looking He wants to get rid of this knight so he offers an exchange by playing knight to h4. White takes this and then, black just quickly grabs this knight with his queen. This is a big mistake. In trying to be ultra aggressive, Black completely As soon as the queen moved, white simply took a solid advantage. These are things you always need to look for. The idea is to move your pieces to better So before moving any piece, always double check what your piece was doing there before. Another big mistake that most chess players make is that they are Not thinking about their opponent's plan and strategy. Let's take a look at this game. Here black plays queen to h4. He is looking to attack this h2 pawn. White thinks that black has made a blunder But this is a big mistake. White did not think about his opponent's plan. The white queen was actually defending this b1 square. And as soon as the queen moved, black could easily get his rook to b1 and give an astonishing checkmate. So keeping a track of your opponent's tactics is very important. When your opponent makes a move, immediately ask yourself, why did he do that? What is his idea behind this? Even if it looks like a blunder, you need up a trap for you. Moving on to the third most common mistake. And that's all about king safety. You should always look to castle early on of not doing so. Even after you castle, you need to understand that these pawns in front of your king are very valuable. If you start moving them, then you are exposing your king to various checks and attacks. Let's take this game for example. In this game, White's pawn is being attacked by the knight. So he decided to support it by playing pawn to f3. But again, this is a mistake. Black brought his queen to c5 giving check and at the same time, also attacking this bishop. White lost his bishop and ultimately lost Moral of the story is that you need to treat importance. They are here to protect your king. Move them only when it is absolutely necessary. Because if you lose the king, you simply lose the game.Okay, now another big problem with chess players is their tendency of making Many players keep moving their pieces repeatedly without any objective. Let's take a look at how white is playing He is continuously moving his knights for And then he brought his queen out, which was actually not required and eventually, it got trapped by Black's minor pieces. If you keep playing random moves like these, you will eventually lose the game. Always Remember these golden rules: Never move a piece twice in the opening and Never make a move, thinking you don't know what to do. If you follow these rules, you will highly The fifth and final mistake happens when you don't see the whole board. In Chess, it could easily happen that you and forget to see the board as a whole. Let me show you an example. In this game, White saw that black has a lonely king at this side of the board so he thought of attacking. He started off with rook to h1 check. But this bishop, on the other side of the He lost his rook for a bishop and ultimately lost the game. That's why it becomes very important to focus on the entire board. You need to specifically watch out for bishops because they can be very dangerous on such long open diagonals. Are you making any of these chess mistakes? Let me know in the comments below. Okay, so It's puzzle time. But before moving onto today's chess puzzle, I request you to show your support and Like this video. We are targeting 2000 likes on this video, right now. Okay, so here's the puzzle. In this position, It's your turn and you need If you are able to find the solution to this Whoever gives the correct answer with the comment at the top so that everyone can see All the Best Guys! Let's see how many of you can solve this. Well, Don't forget to Like &amp; Subscribe to this channel. And For some interesting chess tips, tricks and puzzles, you can like my Facebook page and follow me on Instagram. Links are in the description box below. Thanks for watching and I shall see you in