Didn't you say they've already booked me? Why are there so many people here? yes You line up first I'll call and ask Amazing The housekeeper's salary is only 20,000 yuan. It's more than what my son earns in a foreign company. This old lady is too much. Sorry, everyone. The old lady is tired today. The interview ends here The interview ends here Please go back, everyone. What does this mean? Call us here and send us back No, I'll call again. Buy in sorry The old lady didn't think of it. There will be so many people interviewing today. I really don't have the energy. If there is no result today An interview will be arranged in two days. Is there a Miss Lin named Lin Xiaopan? She, I I Come with me How come? Leave us here It's a wasted trip for us It's a wasted trip for us This rich family is just willful. This rich family is just willful. Our old lady is weak. Fear of infection You are not allowed to wear outside clothes into the living room. So you need to change your clothes and take off your makeup Wash your hands and disinfect Wash your hands and disinfect Do you understand? clear Come with me This side old lady This is the last interview today. It's lunch time. Why are there still people? Didn't I say there would be no interviews in the morning? It's exhausting. This is Mr. Wang's appointment. She took special care of me. I told you I must show it to you. This girl Why not make an appointment earlier? The whole morning was a mess. Hello, Grandma My name is Lin Xiaopan It is Lanjie's home service public account It is Lanjie's home service public account Recommended old lady I'll roll up your sleeves for you. Didn't I tell you? Don't roll up my sleeves Don't roll up my sleeves Good good good No roll Let's measure through the clothes. Where to measure? I'll do it grandmother You have too many people to interview this morning. A bit tired Try to calm down Breathe Steadily Otherwise your blood pressure will rise. This high pressure is 140 and the low pressure is 90 Critical blood pressure You need to be calm and relaxed Do you know critical blood pressure? I used to Volunteer at a nursing home in Japan The old lady is hungry. Let's eat first Who of you guys are going to recruit? So many messy people in the morning Tired of playing Originally This Miss Lin was arranged by Mr. Wang But you want to manage it yourself Let me post a message outside. So I found a few agents. Having said that It's like this now. Stupid Just know the reward I don't know how to ask for it. Yes, yes, I'm stupid. We were still upset this morning. Serving so many people Changing clothes and disinfecting We are exhausted too. Who do you blame? You deserve it. Yes, I deserve it. I deserve it. Madam, please don't be angry. Have some soup How is this Kill the salt seller You want to kill for money? Wipe your mouth They are all idiots, they are all trash Grandma, don't get excited. Take Care of Your Body grandmother Actually respect others It's not because others are excellent. It's because you are excellent Harmony brings wealth You said it is not Where did you learn this? One set after another What's your name? Lin Xiaopan You just stay Three-day trial Three days no Just leave Willing to accept challenges Understand adding water What's going on inside? I saw the old Buddha in Xiaopan Not old They also have Lao Foye Say, I was wrong The old lady has gone Hey, I passed. My grandma let me try it for three days. You don't have to wait for me. We'll talk tonight It's Xiao Pan Hey, I passed. My grandma let me try it for three days. You don't have to wait for me. We'll talk tonight Look, I said no problem. I don't know if this is a good thing or a bad thing. It must be a good thing. How can you be sure? There's no point in thinking so much Let's go, Lin Pick her up when she's done. Go, go quickly A lot of things I'll help you No, I'll do it myself. Your waist is not healed, don't be careless How do you know my waist is injured? I just saw you standing there The waist is slightly tilted to the left When you take something I subconsciously protected my waist. I feel like you just touched it. no I did it accidentally before. It has never been good I brought you a warming pad. Sit down and I'll put it on for you Thank you This thing is warm. Very comfortable on the back It's not like a plaster. Musky smell No one else will find out Thanks Is this here? right here Just now Can see Grandma has a bad temper, right? The old lady in this house is a little weird But the people are nice. Mainly because I was hospitalized this time. My legs can't move anymore. so what His temper is getting weirder. understand This big family You must be careful everywhere. Sister Zhou, what are you usually responsible for? I am responsible for buying groceries and cooking. If the family is short of money Two sons waiting to get married and want to buy a house I don't want to do it here anymore. I'm telling you Everyone in this family has a very weird temper. Yang Er Let me introduce you This is Xiao Yang I just helped you change your clothes and disinfect them. I just helped you change your clothes and disinfect them. This kid is young and has studied in high school. Responsible for cleaning at home And serve the old lady I am mainly responsible for being scolded Just saw it Thank you for your hard work. It's not easy to be the housekeeper of this house. The three hostesses in the house are all fairies You have to be fully prepared mentally Thanks for the reminder I will adapt slowly Cooking, Sister Zhou Miss Zhou The old lady's granddaughter Is Wang Nuotu at home? She seems to be on a business trip with her boyfriend You are busy good Do you usually do housework? No masks and gloves? We are a nanny. How can I care about so many things? That won't work. Babysitting is also a job You have to pay attention to yourself too. Even if I don't do it anymore You also need to have a healthy body. This is what our housekeeping industry is like. It is inevitable that there will be some grievances sometimes You speaking it out is also a way of relieving yourself If you can communicate properly with your customers It would be better if everyone understood each other Customer Who is the customer? The old lady and Mr. Wang They are the owners. How did you become a customer? What owner's Those are all old ideas. Our housekeeping industry Also a service industry So the people we serve Our customers We are all equal Xiao Pan This family doesn't care about you. No, Xiao Yang If there's something wrong with them You need to understand the appropriate and reasonable Express your thoughts It's wrong to keep silent. You have to learn to build relationships of mutual respect How did the old lady become paralyzed? Xiao Wang always found a Very young boyfriend The old lady was furious I had a stroke. When I got to the hospital, they said I couldn't move my legs. I've been in the hospital for several weeks. Crying to come back The granddaughter of this family Is it difficult to serve? You mean Miss? The lady's words are fine. But when the young lady has time She ran out. Not at home either So It's hard to tell if it's difficult to serve. Hope What's the temperature today? What is the wind force? The temperature today is 24 degrees Celsius Wind force: Southwesterly level 2 Air quality: 40 excellent I should get some sun more often. But the sun is too dazzling Don't give me glaucoma. You go back Bring me a pair of sunglasses from my room. In my drawer Please take a look Is this the one? I want Dior. Please take a look Sunscreen Is this it? You're pretty clever. The doctor said to get some sun every day What do you want to supplement? Vitamin D supplement Vitamin D improves calcium absorption I know Just testing you You are so young, beautiful and capable. How did you come up with the idea of being a housekeeper? Because I have no money Your price is too high. It's quite straightforward But I think What are you hiding? Just because of your face You can marry a rich man. Don't work so hard Grandma, you are right. I originally wanted to rely on men. But When I was getting married He suddenly disappeared So you are totally disappointed I came out to be a babysitter. Yes I come from a poor family and have a bad temper. So I suddenly figured it out. It's better to rely on yourself than on anyone else. Especially not relying on men Very well said Nothing is better than relying on yourself Especially not relying on men What about you? You've found the right place. It's here. The status of women is ten thousand times higher than that of men grandmother Your legs If you hurry up and go to the hospital for physical treatment Will it get better faster? The doctor said so. But I don't want to How nice it is to be at home Besides That physical therapy I wish I could hang you up and walk away Can't handle it You have lower limb paralysis caused by a mild stroke. If you seize the best time for physical therapy Maybe you can fully recover. Can't delay Are you a spy sent by the hospital? To earn my physiotherapy fees. Do you think I look like I just hope you can stand up soon You already dislike me after just one day here I would rather lie at home and act like a tyrant What's wrong? You won't let me? You must give in. Where do you want me to push you? Wherever I push OK Go back Why is my shoulder uncomfortable again? Give me a massage. Okay Here, a little bit down How come you are so strong? It hurts so much Lightly, this way Comfortable Take a look I am the future I can't stand up anymore. There are you Don't I just have what I want? I'm not afraid of anything anymore right Grandma, you are lucky. You've only been here for one day How do I know if my fate is good or not? Go back Okay Let's go Grandma, you have so many books. You must be very knowledgeable I have no knowledge My father is very knowledgeable. During the Republic of China He is a professor at St. John's University There are many books at home There are many precious books. What a pity What a pity Burnt all over later In order to save some of the remaining books Donate them all to the country. After my parents passed away, the family fell apart. There has been a while I was helpless and nearly starved to death It was the accountant at my father's school who saved me He is a good man Smart and capable Then I married him When Yiyang was one year old Her father died. I raised her by myself. Until the Reform and Opening-up I use the money at the bottom of the box Opened the first private hotel in Shanghai At that time, some people said I restored capitalism I will restore it for them to see Less than two years I became one of the first millionaires in Shanghai So awesome The difficulties of starting a business Only I know later More and more restaurants are opening With the second and third Yiyang also inherited my business acumen. Our business is getting more and more prosperous I finally have money again. Every time I think of my parents I'll buy some books. I'm here I feel like they haven't left me. Actually I think about them every day I don't usually like to go out. Why? This is a wide view outside Sunshine is also good How comfortable! You don't know those old ladies in our neighborhood Gossiping about other people's affairs all day long Too annoying You can rest assured It's still early They haven't come out yet. Where was I just telling you? Oh, that's right. Our family has money again. Do you think my life is better now? Actually, it's not. My daughter Wang Yiyang Don't look at her ability outside. Don't look at her ability outside. Where's her husband? He was the son-in-law I found for her before. I didn't expect it to be trash. wimp I don't care about anything all day After five years, I let them divorce. But I regret it now I want to know She later liked dating so much Better keep him. Did you know She now With a pretty boy six years younger than her Mix it up She also said she wanted to get married The day she announced her wedding date to me I was so angry that I couldn't move my legs. Grandma, you just can't be angry This anger will cause high blood pressure When blood pressure is high, this and that are likely to happen. I have a thirteen-year-old daughter. I think my blood pressure isn't high. Is it ok? I shouldn't talk about love. What should be discussed is not discussed Who is it? Who else My granddaughter. Ms. Wang Nuotu Miss? But I heard She went to do research with her boyfriend. Why don't you have a love relationship? Recently I talked about one We have met Quite satisfied I am a PhD student at the University of Tokyo. People are smart Capable and can speak What about the previous stage? I asked him to help us decorate the restaurant Really good But I thought again Such a capable guy. Maybe he's attracted by our money? you say Really Whose child is this? This child Are you okay? Whose child is this? Take a look So I don't want to come out A mess Really Don't do this again You are here again Come, give me Whose child are you? I'll sizzle you too Come come come Hurry, go home Why are you crying? What's the matter? She shot me with a water gun You little bastard, you're out of your mind The old lady is in a wheelchair How can I shoot you with a water gun? Tell you to lie You go back to me You dare to lie? Do you dare to lie again? The brat scared me. grandmother Do you remember what just happened? He doesn't use a water gun to hit me? You just stood up You stood up Please try again Stand up like you did just now Are you crazy? When did I stand up? grandmother Are you brave enough to try it? Look What kind of storms have you not seen in your life? Nothing can make you give up Why are you willing to drag a pair of sick legs? Let others push you around You come teach me a lesson You are my hired servant. I'm not a servant. I'm your guest. Senior housekeeping staff If I accept your job I can be your steward You thought you were trying me In fact, I am also observing Are you qualified to be my customer? I'm your customer. If you are not qualified I don't agree with you. You are my client grandmother Take a look You stood up I stood up Come here You come over Try it So to speak I can walk now Slow down. Slow down. Come to me I'll support you Trust me, come Mom, I'm back Xiao Jin came to see you mom Xiao Jin came to see you Hello, Auntie Hello My name is Lin Xiaopan This is the housekeeper recommended by Sister Lan. Please take care Hello Sister Lan introduced such a young housekeeper mom Is it ok? This is what You should ask yourself So young Is it ok? I'll go get you some water. Xiao Jin Sit down now. mom Xiao Jin knows you haven't been feeling well lately. I made chicken soup especially for you. This chicken soup has been cooked for more than five hours. aunt You drink chicken soup Come You try mom Look, it smells delicious. What's wrong You're going to burn me to death Why are you so wooden? You don't blow. Go quickly Okay, I'm a piece of wood, okay? I told you I'd rather deal with math problems I don't want to come to your house. But you insist that I come to you Okay, stop talking. We didn't invite you. mom Could you please say less? I said it, so what? What are you doing? You're already so grown up. You're already so grown up. How awful it is to say it to your face. Sit down, I'll take a look. Sit down and I'll take a look. grandmother Wear a helmet Xiao Pan Where are you taking me? You will know in a moment Wear Sit tight Set off mom Xiao Pan What are you doing? Xiao Pan Xiao Pan, where are you going? So annoying That carrot It's been ten minutes. Should I wait for you? grandmother We succeeded I led you through Those guys are so annoying Hurry Take me away Really? You're not afraid Not afraid of anything My daughter might catch up with us in a while. Go, go, go Walk Okay, sit tight. Let's go What can I do? No signal Hello Need help? OK Thank you So unlucky Stuck here Please wait a moment. Grandma, can you You are awesome You are awesome grandmother It doesn't look like you're leaving on the first day. Today I woke up by myself When they came to call me I've done my makeup. real So awesome! Please slow down grandmother Why don't you let them see it? You look good. This troublemaker I don't want to break up with the pretty boy quickly. I also want to celebrate my recovery. Put him in position You think I'm a fool Make me so angry I have to mess with her. You are so cute Then she is not your biological daughter. You don't wish her well? You I don't know my daughter. I'll tell you the truth Ever since That useless husband passed away She just thinks about finding a boyfriend all day long There is no reliable one Basically, they are all looking at her money I should get a grip on my finances. She doesn't know how much she paid out grandmother Let me be fair to you. In fact, these vary from person to person. Mr. Wan Xiaowang is lucky this time. That little white face So much younger than her. Can you protect her? What's the picture? People say As I get older, I become more calm. Enjoy the peace I never liked that kind of peace. Bad luck when you are young Always struggling to survive Just thinking about doing things Use one day as several days Now I'm older It's time to get some free time. But my heart feels empty No matter if you take care of the children or the housekeeper What else can you do? If it weren't for now I can't bother with it anymore You said people don't make trouble Still alive? You are right Life is about struggle You think so too, right? You think so too, right? Very good Very good Very good You're too high. How can I thank you? You are simply a living Lei Feng It's totally fine. A little help You are such a kind person. What's your last name? My last name is Lin My last name is Wang Thank you I just saw you driving very fast What's wrong This car You should still drive safely If a car accident happens, that's a big deal. Yeah yeah Wasn't I chasing that motorcycle? Why did they steal your money? If you steal the money, it's fine. She took my mom away Rob Mom right That little housekeeper who was causing trouble in our house Get my mom in the car. You want that old lady? My hands and feet are not convenient. He's in his seventies. Then riding her motorcycle will cause an accident. So what should I do? Maybe she is I want to take the old lady out for a ride. Play a circle, turn Come back when you've had enough of the madness. Easy to say That's crazy. Look at the speed of that motorcycle. If something happens, it won't be a small matter. That's what happened I am so surprised Scare you to death No, no Then I will Thank you What's wrong What's wrong? I sprained my ankle What bad luck Any bone problems? fine Your activities No, activities Can you still drive? cannot It hurts so much Come Please slow down Slower Are you okay? Thank you Thank you so much Lin Zhen careful You are familiar with this neighborhood. How do you know? I live here No I just seemed I heard you told me to turn left. Mr. Wang If you feel unwell, go to the hospital for a checkup. What's wrong with you? I sprained my ankle. Slower Get her in quickly. Then I will Lin Zhen You parked your car quite far away. I'll ask our driver to take you there. Need not I'll go back soon. Just treat it as exercise All right Come back soon, thank you. Come back soon Slow down. Thanks good I'll go in and push your wheelchair. Slow down. Slow down. I just knew it Keep a wheelchair at home Nothing good You see, my mother is not sitting. I sat on it. This sin is Xiao Jin, you are here Yiyang, what's wrong with you? I sprained my ankle Ligament strain Slower It's quite serious. Watch out Sit down, ok. It's so frustrating You see, it's swollen. Are you okay? Xiao Jin What's wrong with you Still angry? Iyang I know I have no future I am an ordinary university teacher. But I also have my own independent personality Our relationship is equal. Of course Of course we are equal But your mother is like this Totally insulting me. You're talking about feeding chicken soup like this How many times will it happen again? She doesn't respect me I think I am a The gigolo who's attracted by your money This is too much. When you came to sit in on my math class I didn't even know your family had money. I didn't know you were a rich woman. I didn't know you were a rich woman. Xiao Jin Can you please stop saying the word &quot;rich woman&quot;? I am older than you My financial situation is better than yours. Xiao Jin, you should know I'm sincere to you I know I'm sincere to you too I don't care about your age I don't care whether I have money or not. But I care about dignity. is equal But your family is too bullying. Xiao Jin I think you should stop arguing with my mom. She is already in her seventies. She has had that personality all her life. It's hard for me to change right You're helping her speak like this today. One day You will do the same to me Iyang Maybe during this time we It's developing too fast We need to calm down Maybe we're not suitable. Okay, no more words. I'm leaving first goodbye Xiao Jin Xiao Jin Didn't you draw it for me? Descartes' cardioid curve? You said I am the one who understands you best But I heard Descartes' cardioid curve It is fabricated It's fake If we are destined See you again alright Take care of yourself goodbye One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight Two two three four, five six seven eight Four, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight How did you bring me here? You will know in a moment Five, six, seven, eight two two three four five six seven eight good That's all for today's class. Thank you all Grandma, let's go. Grandma, please wait for me. good Lin Xiaopan, you are quite smart. Guessed my password. Guessed my password. Can you set a higher difficulty level next time? Why are you here? Help me train her. So wild Now that I'm here, let me help you. knew grandmother This is my grandmother. This is my girlfriend. Call Dudu She is the coach here. So awesome Hello, Grandma Dudu, can you help grandma exercise? no problem Walk Can I? No problem, follow me Just try it and you will know Inhale right Okay, drop down. Exhale Hold on right How about it I'll try it. Come on your own Go up Inhale lift good down Exhale Are you okay? Okay? Okay, great grandma. OK right Then I'll do it again Come again Inhale Grandma, you can try it yourself slowly. This is also helpful Restore our ankles and knees Wait until you recover You can do aerobics with us. Really no problem I'll try May I Come This is fun You are awesome! Is it right Right, right, right Mom, you can walk now. The mom you see now Not the paralyzed mom anymore. Xiao Pan You are so courageous. What if something happens to my mother? Can you take responsibility? There's nothing wrong with Xiao Pan Don't criticize her. Now? There is only Xiao Pan in the world Don't treat me like an old lady. I now declare Xiao Pan Passed the interview It's ready for recruitment Thank you grandma I'll get you a glass of water. good I've already said it All my illnesses came from rest. Plus worry Just now The little trainer at the gym said As soon as a person turns seventy It means your genes have been screened. Better than anyone mom You have to take it easy. Don't get too excited Looking back, I'm exhausted again. I don't need your advice on life. I think I have now Entering the kingdom of freedom I thought you were in the free kingdom. In the kingdom of freedom You have to tell the truth Wang Yiyang, let me tell you I don't like Xiao Jin. I'm worried about you too I think he is. They came for our money. So don't bring him here in the future. I don't want to follow him either. Pretending to get along with each other OK Mom, you don't have to say it anymore. We broke up. you We broke up so soon. So that's it. Your feelings aren't that deep. I don't want to talk about this anymore. Back to the house Mr. Wang, please slow down. Let me push your wheelchair. fine Xiao Yang What happened to Wang Yiyang? It seems that when I went out just now I sprained my ankle. How could that be? Lin Daguan You are How come you are here How come you are here I want to tell you I got lost on the highway Just one step on the accelerator and you're here Do you believe it? I'm so embarrassed I don't believe it either. Didn't you just come here to work? I'm a little worried about you I'm afraid you can't bear it It seems like you can't hold it. I'm telling you Today I really went from physical to spiritual Even the soul is overexerting itself Too miserable Fortunately, I had foresight. I brought you the bag of salt. Can you do needlework? Don't worry about who did it. Don't people always say that folk remedies can cure serious illnesses? Heat this in the microwave. Apply wherever it hurts Can relax muscles and promote blood circulation You're welcome too You always helped me before (r) I am repaying a favor. Don't keep saying this. It makes me want to answer you proudly. No need to repay me But I am really disabled today. Don't say anything. Go back and apply the salt bag! Come, I'll hold you Slow down, slow down I'm telling you The Wang family is really hard to deal with. Be careful. Be careful So comfortable What kind of crime? Fasten your seat belts No need to look at Wang Nuotu I know it from the old lady in their family A family of tough guys You can't beat them. Look at that old lady. Out of the gym Just like no one else You were paralyzed first. fine I can pay the price of a paralyzed waist Let's find a boss I definitely earned it. Pain Be patient Hello, courier Thanks You're welcome Xiao Pan Is this the lady's courier? Leave it there, I'll take it in later. No thanks, Xiao Yang I'll deliver it to you Thank you Xiao Pan Mr. Wang I just delivered the express to the lady. Then I glanced at the bookshelf. There are so many business books. right My daughter graduated from CEIBS She has excellent grades It can be seen Xiao Pan Have you ever thought about it? You're not that capable. Not very smart Why did we choose you in the end? Maybe I am more pleasing to my grandmother's eyes. So you brought your grandma. Riding a motorcycle and going to the gym Did you know I'm going to change to another family. I've been playing with you for a long time. Fortunately, our old lady Still quite tough But I still want to remind you Everyone in the agency knows Our Wang's house is a big devil's den Everyone's family Each has unique genes There is no formula, no law There is no universal truth There is no universal truth I don't need to be in someone else's family Make a judgement I just have to do it Find the key to running your household You said this very well. But I still want to remind you Don't think you've got grandma. Everything will be fine. There are three daughters in our Wang family. Each has its own style They are all big bosses Everyone is lazy You have to master the rhythm Save your energy Can clear levels Thanks for the reminder I see Mr. Wang You sprained your ankle. I'll be there for a while Give you a deep massage I promise you'll feel much better tomorrow. Come All right Today is my first day in office. All the work has been completed Now, please let grandma summarize If it was in the past I can always find something wrong. You all did a great job today. I'm in a good mood too No more get off work Thank you for your cooperation and support today. If I had anywhere What we didn't do well Just tell me I will improve No No So amazing Then we disband. Scatter Xiao Pan How did you wipe it off? sharp Xiao Pan Wipe completion You wiped it off You know this is me Making stock K-line charts Making stock K-line charts I painted for a whole night. sorry sorry alright I also want to say it's okay But you know If you keep going like this You know you do this How self-righteous? Did you think before you wipe it? We don't have any children at home. We don't have any children at home. Who would paint on this? And the painting is so beautiful So neat and so regular I want to tell you If you always follow your own If you do things with this mindset You will never make progress sorry OK Don't say sorry so much. I'm not bullying you. You look quite smart. I want to teach you some basic principles OK Stop talking It's not intentional Mom, I made an appointment for you this morning. Go to hospital for physical therapy Don't make the decision for me. I don't want to go to the hospital I made the reservation a week ago. I don't want to go because you made the appointment a year ago. I want to go to the gym to practice boxing good I think You can't handle the gym Your heart can't take it I think you should go to the garden. Ask Xiao Pan to take you to the garden. Go to the Garden With those old ladies I'd rather go to the gym Makes my heart beat fast Xiao Pan Come Come on Go to the gym with me Xiao Pan Take good care of grandma That, Mr. Wang I'll help you fill in the picture when I get back. I can't handle it. At this age, he still goes boxing One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight Two two three four, five six seven eight Two two three four, five six seven eight Two two three four, five six seven eight Hold on for five, six, seven, eight Hold on for five, six, seven, eight Squat two three four five six seven eight One two three four five six seven eight Hold on for five, six, seven, eight good The get out of class is over today. Thank you all Thanks for your hard work Sit here Let me get you a bottle of water. You are here Beautiful, generous and lovely girlfriend Mr. Dudu Come I'll come That's Dudu's boyfriend. Call Dali That's only two hundred words. You count punctuation That's almost 500 words. Looks Dudu has a bad temper. She Just like the opposite sex That's called queen temperament I agree with her attitude A man must raise the whip No need to tame Beauty in the eye of the beholder Everyone's love style is different Women can't just Bow to the man You have to treat yourself as a queen first Others will treat you as a queen. grandmother When you talk about life and love A complete theory I didn't educate my daughter well. Toot You know I'm not very good at writing. If the composition hadn't held me back in the college entrance examination, With my intelligence Fudan University is OK You said I haven't written for so many years. It turns out that the writing is not very good OK Toot You forgive me for not having it? I promise I'll find a job when I get back Are you looking for a job? Not even a month or two later. Go home and continue to eat your parents' food Wang Yiyang Even though she has the final say in the company Talking about love Just try to please men in every way I'm so pissed off. Recently My granddaughter is quite sensible. Bring back a boyfriend Stop drinking water I'll buy you some coffee. Okay? Walk Exercise is good Look Feeling light after exercise You have to like Let's go more often next time. grandmother Mr. Wang Look at her expression. I know her. It's definitely not her who dumped Xiao Jin Xiao Jin must have dumped her. She's been busy these days. Busy apologizing to Xiao Jin Busy asking for reconciliation grandmother She is your daughter after all. And I think Little Jin Like an intellectual Not like a pretty boy There seems to be affection between them. Don't explain to me Anyone younger than Wang Yiyang They are all pretty boys What is the most important thing for women to practice? Just can't let the feelings As the whole of life Sometimes, I even have to ignore him. Drink it now Drink and go home Xiao Pan You let them Change the tablecloth later. Put the silverware on All kinds of wine glasses were also taken out OK grandmother I want to ask first Is there anything going on in a moment? Tutu sent me a WeChat message He said he would be back at four o'clock. My boyfriend came back too. If her boyfriend comes along Do you want to prepare dinner for one more person? Of course Prepare Let them move quickly good Xiao Pan is back Xiao Yang After a while, Wang Nuotu and her boyfriend Come back together Prepare dinner for two people How come I haven't heard of it? Grandma just received a WeChat message from Wang Nuotu strangeness Usually the eldest lady is I called home directly. OK, I got it Iyang I have good news for you. Picture picture She said tonight I came back with my boyfriend. Don't go out. Wait for them to come back home Didn't she say she was going to be away for two weeks? How come you're back in just one week? I didn't ask. I don't want to ask mom Tutu's boyfriend has seen it all. This afternoon I Going out to do something Just you guys are here. You're not allowed to go out You are not allowed to see Xiao Jin again mom Xiao Jin and I have broken up I'm at night Talk to the client about something You look into my eyes I just knew it You have grown up You dare not look me in the eyes when you lie You I called Xiao Jin all day today. Looking for him everywhere A man He doesn't answer your calls. Don't reply your text messages Just dumped you Don't ask him to get back together. mom Are you following me again? I just I saw you unconsciously Looks like a wreck mom I'm almost fifty. I have my life I have my own judgment I don't need your instructions. Do anything you mom I'm not your appendage. I am alone A person with an independent personality Can you respect me mom Mom, wake up, mom Wake up! mom I was scared to death Iyang It can be seen You still have a mother in your heart mom Why are you doing this? Pretending to be dizzy again Lied to me again and said Tutu was coming back What do you mean? I looked at Tutu's circle of friends She just Went hiking in the mountains I'll be back in a few days. Picture picture To avoid you Then I grouped my friends circle You can't see But I can see Oh well Her circle of friends I'll talk to her when she comes back. Mom did all this for Stop you from meeting Xiao Jin Listen to mom Xiao Jin is really not suitable for you Look There's such a big age difference The economic conditions are so different. Sooner or later there will be problems. mom Tutu is already 25 years old I'm forty-eight years old. You It's just that his outlook is too positive. We can't afford to make any mistakes. Can you Let go from now on Stop controlling our lives. Okay? Then you promise me No more Xiao Jin I will never interfere in your life again. I just guessed it. It must be my grandma haunting me. Is grandma always like this? yes In fact, we also sympathize with Mr. Wang. You said you are almost fifty years old. He is also a general manager outside. He's a well-known person, right? I went home and was fucked by my mother There's no face left. Grandma is really strong. yes Often you say Whenever Xiao Wang suffers any injustice Feeling depressed I dare not lose my temper with my grandma Just trouble us And scribbled everywhere Be mentally prepared in these two days. Be mentally prepared in these two days. We're definitely not going to have a good time. Xiao Pan Xiao Pan Here it comes Xiao Pan Where's my golf club? Last time you used up I'll take it to the store for maintenance. My friend wants to borrow it from me today When will your friend use it? The store said it will be delivered tomorrow. He will use it this afternoon. I'm afraid He'll come get it soon. I'm afraid it's a bit too late I am an important customer. I can't mess with him at all. You think of a solution. I'll pick it up at the store now hurry up Okay Finished in half an hour Mr. Wang The pole has arrived You are back The customer has other arrangements No need Why are you still staring at me? No, no. I My eyes are blinded I have a dinner party tomorrow night Please find me a manicurist. I want to do my nails at home I know one A nail salon with a good reputation How about I take you there? What do you mean? Every time I make a request You all refuse My mom doesn't care about me enough You still want to control me, right? I sorry Sorry, I spoke so quickly. Within an hour Get me a manicurist. I One hour One two three four five six seven eight One two three four five six seven eight two two three four five six seven eight two two three four five six seven eight three two three four five six seven eight Four, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight Sister Du Jianghu to the rescue You can in one hour Can you find me a manicurist? This is too tight. A manicurist I know You have to make reservations two days in advance. No, you're not usual. Do you paint your nails at home? Why don't you try it? I Are you kidding? I'm just fine. Play by yourself It's far from professional. Sister Du I really can't help it I'm waiting for you to rescue me. Please Isn't this just forcing the issue? OK Thank you, Sister Du Love you I'm waiting for you I'm waiting for you Mr. Wang I chose it for you today This cherry red Very atmospheric Then it feels a bit lively See if you like it This color is pretty nice. Right? I think so too Very suitable for you Dudu, it's you grandmother This temporary manicurist is you. Do you two know each other? She's the one I told you about. The boxing coach at the gym So that's it right Take a look How come you are good at all kinds of martial arts? Now, the slash youth I'm talking about me Really The manicure is also well done Look at Wang Yiyang Appears to be very capable and assertive Right? mom Do you think it looks good? Great It's much better than your previous plain color. I think it's so fresh Not suitable for my age. you Didn't you just say you liked it? this This one hurts especially I'll help you deal with it You just cut too much dead skin. Look, it's all red. Don't move I'll come Slow down. What are you doing? What is it? Why does it taste so bad? There's acetone in it. No I'm allergic to this stuff no This one does not contain acetone Look at what's written above. No The businessmen lied. What does acetone-free mean? What does acetone-free mean? It definitely contains acetone. I am allergic to acetone Take it quickly, take it away quickly I'll go check it out this I'm allergic to this smell. Please leave quickly. Please leave quickly. Sister Du If this little Wang is really allergic That's the big problem. Please help me accompany grandma I'll handle this here. This smells terrible. Let me take a look I think your hand Looks pretty Just a little dry Otherwise I'll help you remove your nails in a moment. By the way, I'll give you a maintenance You will also My previous beauty counter in Japan Did sales promotion You will know if you try it. Yeah I'll apply the essence on you first Then apply eye cream. Skin condition will be better Um I'm recently Extremely dry skin You see, I have lymph nodes under my ears Massage your neck lymph nodes In this way, you can detoxify and nourish your skin My method is OK. Much better than the beauty salon lady's technique Mr. Wang There is a saying I don't know if I should say Then stop talking about it. If life can It's better to do it this way. but If a man disappears I will do whatever it takes to find him Even if we break up I will also separate them cleanly Clearly You Don't think your grandma spoils you. You just mind other people's business. This has nothing to do with you sorry But I think A person's emotions There's always a time to be released Rather than passively waiting Why not take a gamble? alright I said you really are Look, I'm making a face here. You are also nagging You have to say everything you should and shouldn't say. Why are you such a weird person? Seeing you so gentle and modest Why do you like to meddle in other people's affairs? I'm telling you I'm giving you face Replaced by someone else You dare to say this in front of me? I would have slapped him a long time ago I think you look Very strong and calm But in fact Your heart is hot and sensitive I don't need you to tell me how to live my life. I dare to say one more thing Don't let your so-called self-esteem hold you back Let's go find Xiao Jin. Even if there is a big quarrel Even if we hurt each other It's stronger than it is now. Please stop talking about this, okay? You take a rest Please take Passengers on train No. 3025 Prepare your tickets in advance One ticket per person, hold in right hand Xiao Pan What are you doing? The railway station is fifteen kilometers away There is still an hour and a half before departure I think I should go there now. Should be in time What are you talking about School organizes teaching Usually by train There is only one flight from Shanghai to Lhasa every day There is only one flight from Shanghai to Lhasa every day Now is the peak time Driving is very congested The subway is crowded I'll take you there on my motorcycle. Fastest How do you know Xiao Jin went to teach? There's a copy on your desk. Information about college teachers teaching in Tibet I just noticed There's a countdown on the calendar in your room When Teacher Xiao Jin came last time Wearing T-shirts with Wearing T-shirts with The emblem of the University of Science and Technology I checked online List of college teachers who will teach in this year Discovery University There is a male teacher named Jin I think Xiao Jin has always been hesitant about whether to go to teach Very hesitant But you guys have had some relationship problems recently. This also made him finally make up his mind So Teacher Xiao Jin is not missing. He is the decision Going to Tibet Mr. Wang You didn't love the wrong person Teacher Xiao Jin is very idealistic There is also light Let's go Go to the train station Say goodbye to him Xiao Pan What are you doing grandmother Teacher Xiao Jin stayed in Tibet for a year Why don't you stop here? Why not let them officially break up? Make a break with the past Nonsense You are not allowed to go. Sorry grandma I know I don't have the right to judge the boss. No more judgment The power of other people's feelings But I still want to say Treat feelings rather than avoid them Better to face it bravely Mr. Wang I'll ask you one last time Do you want to come with me? Crazy I told you not to go today. Life is like this Or go crazy once Or regret forever Which one do you choose? Xiao Pan You want to take her out? Don't come back again. Do you know Little Hope Let's go Sorry grandma Wang Yiyang So cool What did you say I said it was outrageous. that is Too outrageous Twenty minutes left Is it too late? Is it okay for me to do this? There's no time to hesitate. Run Xiao Pan There are so many people at this train station Where to find it? How do you know if you don't try? I am a big boss after all. When did you do it? Such a crazy thing. If you don't go crazy, you'll get old. Please take Passengers on train No. 3025 Prepare your tickets in advance One right-hand ticket per person Please ask Mr. Xiao Jin from the University of Science and Technology Come to the ticket office. A lady named Wang Yiyang is looking for you A lady named Wang Yiyang is looking for you Please ask Mr. Xiao Jin from the University of Science and Technology Come to the ticket office. A lady named Wang Yiyang is looking for you A lady named Wang Yiyang is looking for you How embarrassing it is for you to say something like this here Teacher Xiao Jin Teacher Jin I believe in your character The reason why I broke up with Xiao Wang It's a helpless act But I hope You can now Come out boldly Say goodbye to Mr. Wang in person Every relationship has its own cycle. It's not wrong to end a relationship Say goodbye Put an end to the relationship It's not difficult Mr. Wang came to see you today. But don't worry She's not here to get back together with you. She has always respected you. Including every decision you make She just wants to tell you She has always loved you I've loved you, shed tears, and given She has a clear conscience towards you alright Xiao Wang Panpan You really shouldn't say that here. So many people are watching How embarrassing! I'm telling you I've called many times. He didn't answer. He has blacklisted me. Can he show up? Impossible Let's go, let's go quickly Believe me He will definitely show up Impossible Go Go Go Iyang Xiao Jin I didn't expect that we would be together. Meeting on this occasion you I Xiao Jin, you are right. Our family doesn't respect you. Hurt your self-esteem I apologize to you I hope you can forgive me too. Even Descartes' cardioid curve It's a legend But the moment you believe it Legends are no longer legends It will have real life With an end comes a new beginning Please bless everyone Take care of yourself Take care of yourself sorry Although I only stayed at your house for a week But I have seen Your strong aura I really admire you from the bottom of my heart As a woman I particularly appreciate your Life never ends, fighting never ends Attitude towards life I hope that decades later I Just like you Possessing vigorous vitality grandmother Bye now Xiao Pan Wait a minute Mr. Wang I'll hire you mom Xiao Pan is very willful and stubborn Interfering in the boss's affairs Interfering in the boss's affairs Sometimes I act on my own She's not a conventional good housekeeper Crazy Sometimes I don't know the current situation but She encourages you to stand up bravely. He also encouraged me in my emotional life. Boldly challenge This is not challenging yourself This is to embarrass you in public. All right Even if it's embarrassing in public but Xiao Pan walked out of the Wang family's door today She's going to terminate the contract with you. I can re-hire Xiao Pan But Grandma has to agree. You are so bold Dare to take me on a motorcycle ride How dare you let my daughter go against me? You can listen to other people's opinions Listen, of course I listen to be honest Grandma, you are The spiritual core of this home Which direction is this house heading? It still depends on your guidance. Stop flattering me. You just said but That means Ask Wang Yiyang if he is willing Not whether I agree or not Yes or no no I care about your opinion. Don't give me that. I saw it long ago You have a rebellious nature. Tell you In this home No matter who hires you I have the final say mom Then you agree Xiao Pan Then we sign the contract right away Thank you grandma Thank you Mr. Wang I still want to say something Signing a contract is also good No contract required As long as you don't need me anymore I can leave right away. So hypocritical I've never seen Such a hypocritical housekeeper Domineering So domineering I've never seen such a domineering old lady Good morning, grandma morning Master When you are free today Prune the flowers in the garden again. Restore the flowers in the garden. Good from the wave Thanks for your hard work fine Planting flowers Just like being a human being We must promptly remove those branches and vines Trim them all Wang Yiyang Have you had breakfast? I've eaten mom Lin Zhen Come out for a moment Let me introduce you I Yes, let me introduce you Mom, let me introduce you This is the driver I just hired. I found it through Lanjie's agency. Nice people I was a chef in Japan. New here! Hello, Grandma good Nice to meet you Hello, hello Let me introduce you This is our family's gold medal butler Xiao Pan Xiao Pan has also been to Japan Lin Tan has been in Japan for many years. Lin Tan has been in Japan for many years. A gold medal driver What a coincidence! What a coincidence! Every year there are many Chinese people traveling to and from Japan But it just so happens that we two gold medals Everyone is here. There is no place in life where we don't meet I'm afraid our meeting will be too hasty. that is Come in a hurry Left in a hurry Thank you for your attention Me too Please take care Please take care Look at you two talking. Look at you two talking. Why is it so weird? Maybe it's because We both stayed in Japan. So this mouth There may be an inexplicable sense of intimacy Yes Xiao Pan Please accompany me to the hospital today. good I will help you Why don't you go to heaven? I almost went to hell You've been back home for almost half a month. You've been back home for almost half a month. Don't tell me Don't you already know this? That's me calling Sister Lan. Just found out you Not only lying You're still following me You are guilty of two more crimes Do you know No, no, no Don't say it so harshly. this The lies I told They're all green green lies Harmless to humans and animals Why does Dad have to go back home? First, the first one Article 1 I'm afraid you're not safe. Are you worried? Right You are alone in the country How can I be at ease? Article 2 Why did Dad hide it from you? I'm afraid you'll see me. Just run away What you said You said you saw me You just run, jump off a building, disappear or something like that. This I I don't want to hear Let us happily Let's end this conversation. No, no, no You end this Can you be happy, right? Pleasant conversation Then you should give dad one first Then you should give dad one first Big hug I don't want No wonder you called me recently They are all hesitant and evasive. I heard You also made a background board, right? you are awesome If a person tells a lie He has to tell a hundred lies to cover it up. Do you know This is what I want to tell you too How many lies did you tell me? You didn't say you Is everything going well after returning home? You ended up being a babysitter. What's wrong No job is too high or too low How is it possible? How is it possible? Why did you lie to me? You are a white-collar worker. Right? Right? I'm not afraid that you'll think too much. What are you doing to you? You're thinking, we We have to hurt each other like this no Anyway, now The two of us The status is similar Don't laugh What are you always laughing at? You think you'll be fine if you just smile Lie to me I will remember you forever We are now Similar in nature I am my driver and you are my nanny Right? Why? Why do we have to hurt each other? Right? So I happily accepted it. Your suggestion Let's end the harm All right alright OK All right, all right Tell me first How did you get to know Sister Lan? Well, it's not because of you. That day Dad is following you. Sister Lan thinks I'm a hooligan One shot at a time So we got to know each other. Sister Lan is so brave I feel relieved. Time is of the essence I won't tell you more. I won't tell you more. Now And you I'm here to work and earn money. I'm here to work. What are you doing? Next If you don't tell me, I won't know. You returned to China just for Zhou Zhiwei Right Sister Lan told you Why don't you let her tell me? Those are lice on a bald head. It's clearly there. Since we are two We're all adults. Then I'll make it clear. I haven't found Zhou Zhiwei yet What happens next I don't know either so You must not ruin our relationship Tell the Wang family, will you know? What are you doing? You asked me to lie with you again I'll cooperate with you, no problem. But if it's for that Zhou Zhiwei, that bastard Then you don't think about it Keep your voice down Keep your voice down I'll mention him, I can't keep quiet no He doesn't deserve it I just want to make it clear. I just want a perfect ending. You finish with him That is the most perfect I told you I don't understand, right? You said he just didn't understand Do you have to go against me? You lied again I have to lie for Zhou Zhiwei again Double the crime Double the crime Xiao Pan I I I I'm driving Is grandma's check-up okay? OK You guys had a nice chat. If you don't talk, you won't know I found out after chatting When I was in Japan I've been to his restaurant. So that's it What a coincidence Yes, it's a coincidence, fate Known before Okay, let's go. Okay Go home grandmother Slow down Please slow down. Look, it's really neat. Every time I see you I think of my mother Yeah She was seventy-five when she died She's already on crutches. Yeah You see now Still so neat I have worked hard today. without Be careful with the steps Man, slow down. Mr. Wang Mr. Wang What happened to Mr. Wang? Mr. Wang, what's wrong? fine Panpan Panpan Mr. Wang, are you okay? I didn't expect it You're so old. I'm still so painful after a breakup No matter what age you are, you will feel pain if you break up. I see Mr. Wang looks pale Unstable breathing That's really the feeling of being hurt. Look at her like this But what can I do? What should I eat? This is a sentimental injury. Where to take the Heartless Pill Heartless Pill You figured it out. It really has to be sold. I'll buy it for her no matter how expensive it is. Those are all made up in Jin Yong's novels. Lin Yan is really good at joking I'm really not kidding. Although there is no place to sell the Jueqing Pill But I will do it Don't look back, otherwise you will make Mr. Wang sick. I can't guarantee immediate results. But I promise It can restore your spirit and recover your vitality It can restore your spirit and recover your vitality Stop talking nonsense. You you you don't believe me me me me I can give Give Mr. Wang a try. Right? I really want to roll my eyes at you You said you were somewhere else It's okay to talk nonsense How dare you talk nonsense here? no Can you tell me where the brown sugar is? have no idea I know Here here What do you want to do? I don't want anything. Brown Sugar Millet Porridge Isn't Wang Yiyang fifty years old? Women in menopause There is a characteristic Mood swings Poor sleep and low blood pressure Brown sugar is warm in nature and nourishes the spleen and stomach Millet nourishes yin and replenishes deficiency These two are the best for her. So what are you talking about? That heartless pill Look at the woman of the Wang family Everyone seems to be the only one You tell them simple science They can listen to it. You have to talk to them. Only metaphysics can scare them Anyway, we finally achieved our goal That's all, right? Isn't that enough? So, according to what you said That heartless pill in Jin Yong's novel It has to be solid. That's right You reminded me. Just for a while I use black sesame paste Knead some flour Give her some balls. Finally, she was asked to take it with brown sugar millet porridge Problem Solved I'm already pretty good. Zhou Botong does that and that antidote It's the mud on the body. Then roll it into small balls Stop rubbing. Stop rubbing. You rubbed it in. Good good good Go! Go! Go no problem Lin Rong You said you look quite honest. In fact, they only do those monkey things Otherwise, the monkey spirit in your body Who inherited it? Yes or no Can you? Slow down. This porridge is so delicious This porridge is so delicious Drink slowly Anything else? Still, still, still But Mr. Wang You've already had your fifth bowl. Look at you Just recovered from a serious illness Let's proceed step by step. Lin Zhen Thank you Take a look So many days I finally have an appetite. I'm not bragging. Diet therapy I still have some experience. so Starting tomorrow Mr. Wang's breakfast snack I've got it all Yeah That's great Can you help me get another bowl? return Still eating, right? Okay, last bowl. Last bowl, okay? The last bowl