Neoflam, a kitchenware company located in Wonju-si, Gangwon-do, South Korea The company was founded in 1990 and specializes in manufacturing ceramic cookware. Today, this factory produces ceramic-coated frying pans made of cast aluminum. Pure aluminum ingots This elevator can lift about 1 ton of aluminum. Aluminum is put into the melting furnace. About 20 tons of aluminum are melted per day. Furnace Aluminum is melted at a hot 850 degrees Celsius. It was hot enough to melt the camera lens :) The melting furnace is used to remove dust generated during operation. Special bucket to hold molten aluminum Put molten aluminum in bucket. This is a task that requires caution as hot aluminum can splatter. About 800 kg of aluminum is put in. Removing impurities Injecting nitrogen into aluminum through a pipe. Bring the oxide to the upper surface with nitrogen injection. Scoop out the impurities that have risen to the surface with a shovel. Purification complete The hot aluminum is transferred to the molding machine before it cools down. Pour aluminum into the dosing inlet. About 450 kg of aluminum is fed at a time. Aluminum Dosing Furnace Casting Injection Part Sparks are generated when the lubricant and molten metal react. This is the process of pushing the molten aluminum into the frying pan mold. Forming A lubricant is sprayed to help the frying pan come off the mold easily. Moving the castings to the robot facility for a safe production process. Object recognition sensor Removing by-products This is the basis of the frying pan shape we commonly know. Various castings are produced on multiple injection molding machines. Press compression process Removing foreign substances with an air gun. Disc plate for electric induction heating Press the disc plate to the bottom of the frying pan with strong pressure from the press machine. Check carefully whether it is pressed well. Polishing process Outer diameter Polishing Remove fine protrusions on the surface with 'sandpaper'. The edges are also trimmed neatly :) Inner diameter polishing Polishing the sharp parts with sandpaper. Handle connection hole punch Apply stearic acid to make the drill bit smooth. Remove contamination and fine scratches with a sanding machine. 'Flower pad' to protect the frying pan Prevents scratches caused by objects colliding with each other. Sandblasting process Fixes the frying pan to the turntable. This process sprays sand on the surface of the frying pan with strong pressure to increase the coating adhesion. Smooth casting surface Washing process Wash the casting cleanly for 10 minutes using water, alkaline solution, and degreaser. Frying pan after cleaning Remove remaining moisture with air gun. Masking pipe When coating the inside of a frying pan, prevent the handle area from being coated. Utensil Detection Sensor Inner Coating High-quality ceramic coating is used here. Spraying occurs every 3.5 seconds. The coating process is the most important process because it determines the quality of the frying pan. A total of 15 sprays are evenly sprayed on the inner coating. The inner coating is meticulously applied. The inner coating is dried in a high-temperature furnace at 180 degrees Celsius. A complete ceramic coating film is formed through drying. Remove the internal coating that has been applied to the outside with a circular sandpaper. External coating Use a ceramic coating paint developed here. Excellent wear resistance, hardness, and easy to clean of contaminants. Spray with a total of 18 sprays. If you touch the frying pan while it is not dry, You will get a defect, so use a tool. Secondary drying Inspection Coated frying pan Handle assembly and packaging line Solid wood handle of ash tree Individual packaging Hands are really fast :) Box Packaging 6 frying pans in one box. This company produces about 12 million kitchenware items a year. It exports to over 70 countries around the world and is recognized as a representative Korean cookware brand. 180 degree high temperature egg non-stick test Eggs do not stick even without cooking oil. Wear resistance test with a sponge Rub the surface with a sponge to check if the coating comes off. No scratches at all! Environmentally friendly ceramic coating frying pan that you can use with confidence is complete!