The coolest feature in Gears of War is, it works: every time you reload your gun, A cursor swipes along a line and you can hit and you'll reload super fast. Land here, more powerful bullets. But land It's a great feature - adding tension, basic actions in shooters. But, it also left the devs found that advanced players constantly giving them better over the enemies. So they had to rebalance But, beginner players often ignored the that weapon buff - and were now fighting these So much of game design is about solving problems find out that it's flawed in some way. It's the gameplay you intended. Or it's clashing as a designer, you can often find yourself going Surely there's a better way? Well, in this episode, let's look at how the in their design - to give us some take and I'll also let you know how Epic fixed pretty ingenious. I'm Mark Brown, So, before we start coming up with that we've accurately identified the problem. During the development of Dying Light, the game's and so he told the designers to increase their Binkowski didn't want to fiddle with that stat So, instead, he dug deeper, asked more questions, and got to the real problem - players could only to fix this, the designer didn't touch weapon health points of the enemies. It solved the Binkowski suggests designers step back and before trying to solve the We also need to make sure that everyone Just before Astroneer left Early Access, the system - but had very different ideas about the and so wanted to add more machines thought it was already too complicated, This, naturally, led to disagreements - but it the problem down, that they realised they were One was looking at the shallow gameplay loop, was looking at the operation of complex machines, Now, seeing eye-to-eye, they could and fix both issues at once. Those and then used to expand the simple crafting Okay, so hopefully we now know what the here are some best practices Approach one - quickly iterate When Blizzard was making Diablo 3, they wanted potion spamming. Players would often combat - and so enemies needed to chance of actually killing the player. know how to solve this thorny issue - How about - potions become less effective Slap a build together and... that didn't players would just chug four of them. Okay, how about you automatically heal - but only build and... no good. Enemy awareness just wasn't if three seconds pass without you taking and... didn't work. Players would run away That's the opposite of what Blizzard Ah! But, that did point to the solution: filled with health, when you kill it's simple to understand, and it makes This approach is all about trying stuff and solution. Like, that first solution with says &quot;we weren't totally thrilled with but we did it anyway. We knew that even though to ship with, it was something that was going Approach two - identify the levers In a fascinating GDC talk about game explains how his team fixed the sniper rifle players were able to acquire long-range they could also use the sniper rifle in close Fixing an issue like this means first identifying For Griesemer, you can't shorten the range of reduce its accuracy, or stop it doing insta-kill the sniper rifle - you can't change those stats So by removing those options, it became clear shots in the clip. The length of the reload. The Whether you can do insta-kill headshots outside The right call was changing the players from instantly acquiring and and it made it much less effective in close the end, it was enough to increase the By figuring out what can and can't be changed, solutions. However - this must be done carefully. convinced yourself cannot be changed. As Approach three - make big changes Okay, so I just talked about a change of 0.2 big impact on the game. But sometimes, than a month before the first Civilization was pacing issues. So he decided to solve the Not by a few tiles. Or a few sucker in half. And this worked wonders and it better captured that true Civ We've already talked about iterating on a problem only ever changing things by tiny amounts - a get to the right answer. Or you'll find out too Meier's advice is to &quot;double it, or cut it in quickly see if the change has an effect - and if readjust. Talking about that Civ map, Meier says what we already had, I never would have gotten to Approach four - flip it on its head In Shovel Knight, Yacht Club wanted to progress. They wanted a system where players to get a reward. So they made a checkpoint you can skip it and save the cash - but at But this system didn't really work. It was worse still, it had a big balance problem: novice were also least likely to have the So the solution was to flip Instead of paying money to save your game... saving is automatic - removing that players never lose out. But it also has platforming experts can intentionally Sometimes you're close to the right solution, Approach five - find the solution elsewhere So when Naughty Dog was working they initially let Joel upgrade his weapons at that created problems - it added complexity missed the option entirely, and because they'd typically just upgrade as soon as they Now the developers could have iterated upgrade button to different screens or player. But the ultimate solution was to Now, the game has upgrade benches. These are modify your weapon, meaning you might not have a that players actually engaged with the system. they were able to boost the weapons they enjoyed spent more time assessing all the options, Remember that games are a massive sometimes you can fix a problem in one area, Approach six - solve multiple issues at once During the madcap multiplayer the designers found it annoying to die - and or a checkpoint, to come back The first idea was that knocked-out players blocks. Which is pretty cute. But they kept going come back in a bubble, and their team mates This didn't just solve the original problem. novice players get to a tricky bit that they themselves in a bubble, let the better players safe. This one feature made dying more fun, and Mario's daddy, Shigeru Miyamoto, has that that does not solve just one single problem, but sometimes, it's best to wait for a solution Approach seven - study player behaviour Okay, let's finally get back remember - Epic had to boost the health kept doing perfect reloads and getting a damage who ignored the system entirely and were now But Epic noticed another difference between rarely finish a clip - they reload before they're clip is empty, and let the game automatically The devs secretly boosted the power of them &quot;magic bullets&quot;. And so - on the whole giving them a similar advantage to the Most of the problems in game design are with the game. So why not that use that Okay, so now we have a solution, we can implement The first is second-order effects. In Rainbow its overpowered shotgun. So they nerfed shotgun was no longer outperforming the other because the shotgun is a great defensive defenders to win against attackers. Fixing a problem in one place can create another how different systems might interlink, and perhaps, figure out how to solve these to reduce the time limit on rounds. Because this made that side more likely to Another challenge is finding the resources to of Prey, Arkane's designers realised they station - but they didn't really have the time, So the designers found a creative solution: the poltergeist. This enemy is invisible objects. It needed dramatically fewer Prey's designer Ricardo Bare says &quot;good designers constraints that they have&quot;, and adds being one of his favourite enemies in the late in development - or even after the solution is just the one that you can actually And finally, you need to test if the by going back to those playtesters, Griesemer recommends that you don't tell as that can bias their experience. Just If not - well, hopefully, like in the case you figure out what the actual problem is, and As I've been discovering myself, game design survive first contact with players. And so come up with good ideas - they're the ones who This video was absolutely packed with stories of It's like, my favourite genre. There were loads Patron on the Bonus Video tier, you can now check Oh, and what about if your game has already been Well, then you should check out this video to See you soon.