Hey guys, my name is Dr. Sam. And in this video I wanted to show you how to apply benzoyl peroxide 2.5% gel correctly to your skin - which is this product here! Many patients I see are struggling to know how to use benzoyl peroxide and like a lot of people, I had very bad acne as a teenager but when I used benzoyl peroxide it caused my skin to go red, dry, peel and it was a horrible mess! So I gave up and now as a doctor I understand how to use it properly which I'll share with you in this video. Basically, benzoyl peroxide is a great product. 1. It works as an antiseptic so it kills bacteria on your skin and those bugs can't become resistant to benzoyl peroxide like other acne treatments do. 2. It's an anti-inflammatory, so it helps calm down large and inflamed, angry pimples. 3. It also softens and removes the outer layer of your skin revealing the beautiful skin underneath - awesome! But there are a couple of tricks to using benzoyl peroxide correctly, so that you get the most out of the acne treatment. It comes in different forms so there are: rinse off cleanses, there are gels or creams. Gels are better if you have oily skin. Rinse off cleansers are better to use if you have acne on your trunk or if you get lots of irritation - if you've used benzoyl peroxide before, you can apply it and then wash it off straight away. It doesn't matter which form you choose but you must start with the lowest strength - i.e. 2.5% or your skin is gonna go nuts! In full disclosure I started out with the highest strength I could get my hands on as I thought that that would work the fastest and it was a rookie mistake. So most people only need the 2.5% strength. Now I'm gonna demonstrate how I get my skin looking fabulous with 2.5% gel. I'll show you step by step what to do. So when you first start you want to wash your face with a gentle skin cleanser. I personally love &quot;Cetaphil Gentle Skin Cleanser&quot; and I use it just with some cotton makeup pads and this removes makeup and doesn't cause irritation because I've got really sensitive skin. I would recommend for you to do this at night time. So let's get started! Then you want to wait for your skin to be touch dry which is round about five minutes. And apply a small amount of benzoyl peroxide 2.5% in a thin smear to the areas of your skin where you get the acne. It doesn't have to go all over. For me - that's my t-zone. About that much. You want to apply this really gently, don't be too rough with your skin. The first time you use it you might feel a mild burning sensation and notice some redness. Don't worry, it will pass, that's really normal. But leave it on for about two hours. Then you want to rinse your skin with some lukewarm water, not too hot. Just to get off that Benzoyl Peroxide and just pat it down gently with a dry towel. The next part is just applying a non oily moisturizer. And again, I really, really love the Neutrogena - it's a hydro boost which has got hyaluronic acid in it. So just a little bit of that, afterwards. Then you can go to bed and get some beauty sleep. And in the morning wet your skin, apply a daytime moisturizer - I'll link this in the description below and a high SPF sunscreen. I really like this sunscreen product because you can use it under your makeup and it's great for sensitive skin. If the first time has gone well, you reapply it every night for two hours for another three nights. After those three nights, you can leave on the benzoyl peroxide all night and have a party. In the first few weeks of using benzoyl peroxide you might get an increase in peeling. If that happens, stop using it for a few days and apply a light non-oily moisturizer twice daily. If you don't know what moisturizer to use, just use any moisturizer that says &quot;non-comedogenic&quot; on the back and try again and see with the benzoyl peroxide if it works. Remember benzoyl peroxide can bleach your clothing, so make sure the benzoyl peroxide has completely dried before your skin touches clothing, towels or bedding. You can use something special to cover it and if you get swelling or blistering of your skin please stop using benzoyl peroxide, as you've probably developed contact dermatitis from it. Just remember to be patient as your acne will slowly improve but it may take a few months. Try to persevere as benzoyl peroxide is working behind the scenes, unclogging your pores and killing bacteria on your skin. It just takes some time. Please give this video a like if you enjoyed it. Hit the subscribe button for new videos every single week and hit the bell to get notified when we post new videos on Tuesdays. Please let me know in the comments what you enjoyed about this video or what you would like to learn more about. Feel free to check out some of my other videos on skin treatments and health. Thanks for stopping by :)