So, I'll be speaking to you because I can. This is one these magical abilities We can transmit really complicated So what I'm doing right now is, as I'm exhaling. I'm making tones and hisses and puffs, and those are creating Those air vibrations are traveling to you, they're hitting your eardrums, and then your brain takes and transforms them into thoughts. I hope. (Laughter) I hope that's happening. So because of this ability, across vast reaches of space and time. We're able to transmit I can put a bizarre new idea I could say, &quot;Imagine a jellyfish waltzing in a library while thinking about quantum mechanics.&quot; (Laughter) Now, if everything has gone you probably haven't had (Laughter) But now I've just made you think it, through language. Now of course, there isn't just there are about 7,000 languages And all the languages differ Some languages have different sounds, they have different vocabularies, and they also have different structures -- very importantly, different structures. That begs the question: Does the language we speak Now, this is an ancient question. People have been speculating Charlemagne, Holy Roman emperor, said, &quot;To have a second language strong statement But on the other hand, &quot;What's in a name? A rose by any other name Well, that suggests that maybe These arguments have gone But until recently, to help us decide either way. Recently, in my lab we've started doing research, and now we have actual scientific data So let me tell you about I'll start with an example that I had the chance to work with. These are the Kuuk Thaayorre people. They live in Pormpuraaw What's cool about Kuuk Thaayorre is, in Kuuk Thaayorre, they don't use and instead, everything north, south, east and west. And when I say everything, You would say something like, &quot;Oh, there's an ant Or, &quot;Move your cup In fact, the way that you say &quot;hello&quot; &quot;Which way are you going?&quot; And the answer should be, &quot;North-northeast in the far distance. How about you?&quot; So imagine as you're walking every person you greet, you have to report your heading direction. (Laughter) But that would actually get you Because you literally if you didn't know In fact, people who speak languages They stay oriented better We used to think that humans because of some biological excuse: &quot;Oh, we don't have magnets No; if your language and your culture actually, you can do it. There are humans around the world And just to get us in agreement about how different this is I want you all to close and point southeast. (Laughter) Keep your eyes closed. Point. OK, so you can open your eyes. I see you guys pointing there, I don't know which way it is myself -- (Laughter) You have not been a lot of help. (Laughter) So let's just say the accuracy This is a big difference in cognitive Where one group -- very doesn't know which way is which, but in another group, I could ask a five-year-old (Laughter) There are also really big differences So here I have pictures And if I ask an English speaker they might lay it out this way, from left to right. This has to do with writing direction. If you were a speaker of Hebrew or Arabic, you might do it going from right to left. But how would the Kuuk Thaayorre, this Aboriginal group I just They don't use words Let me give you hint. When we sat people facing south, they organized time from left to right. When we sat them facing north, they organized time from right to left. When we sat them facing east, time came towards the body. What's the pattern? East to west, right? So for them, time doesn't actually it gets locked on the landscape. So for me, if I'm facing this way, then time goes this way, and if I'm facing this way, I'm facing this way, time goes this way -- very egocentric of me to have every time I turn my body. For the Kuuk Thaayorre, It's a dramatically different way Here's another really smart human trick. Suppose I ask you Well, I bet I know how you'd solve You went, &quot;One, two, three, You counted them. You named each one with a number, and the last number you said This is a little trick You learn the number list A little linguistic trick. Well, some languages don't do this, because some languages They're languages that don't have or a word like &quot;eight.&quot; In fact, people who speak and they have trouble So, for example, if I ask you to the same number of ducks, you would be able to do that by counting. But folks who don't have Languages also differ in how the visual world. Some languages have some have only a couple words, And languages differ in where they put So, for example, in English, that covers all of the colors but in Russian, there isn't a single word. Instead, Russian speakers between light blue, &quot;goluboy,&quot; and dark blue, &quot;siniy.&quot; So Russians have this lifetime distinguishing these two colors. When we test people's ability what we find is that across this linguistic boundary. They're faster to be able between a light and dark blue. And when you look at people's brains say you have colors shifting slowly the brains of people who use will give a surprised reaction as if, &quot;Ooh, something whereas the brains that don't make don't give that surprise, because nothing is categorically changing. Languages have all kinds This is one of my favorites. Lots of languages have grammatical gender; every noun gets assigned a gender, And these genders differ across languages. So, for example, the sun is feminine and the moon, the reverse. Could this actually have any Do German speakers think of the sun and the moon somehow more male-like? Actually, it turns out that's the case. So if you ask German and Spanish speakers like the one here -- &quot;bridge&quot; happens to be grammatically grammatically masculine in Spanish -- German speakers are more likely and stereotypically feminine words. Whereas Spanish speakers they're &quot;strong&quot; or &quot;long,&quot; these masculine words. (Laughter) Languages also differ in how You take an event like this, an accident. In English, it's fine to say, In a language like Spanish, you might be more likely or, &quot;The vase broke itself.&quot; If it's an accident, you wouldn't say In English, quite weirdly, &quot;I broke my arm.&quot; Now, in lots of languages, you couldn't use that construction and you went out (Laughter) and you succeeded. If it was an accident, Now, this has consequences. So, people who speak different languages depending on what their language So we show the same accident English speakers will remember who did it, because English requires you Whereas Spanish speakers might be if it's an accident, but they're more likely to remember They're more likely So, two people watch the same event, witness the same crime, but end up remembering This has implications, of course, It also has implications So if you take English speakers and I just show you and I say, &quot;He broke the vase,&quot; even though you can witness it yourself, you can watch the video, you can watch the crime against the vase, you will punish someone more, you will blame someone more as opposed to, &quot;It broke.&quot; The language guides Now, I've given you a few examples of how language can profoundly and it does so in a variety of ways. So language can have big effects, like we saw with space and time, where people can lay out space and time in completely different Language can also have that's what we saw Having count words in your language, having number words, opens up the whole world of mathematics. Of course, if you don't count, you can't do any of the things that would be required or make this broadcast, right? This little trick of number words into a whole cognitive realm. Language can also have what we saw in the case of color. These are really simple, We make thousands of them all the time, and yet, language is getting in there and fussing even with these tiny little Language can have really broad effects. So the case of grammatical gender but at the same time, That means language can shape about anything that can be That's a lot of stuff. And finally, I gave you an example that have personal weight to us -- ideas like blame and punishment These are important things Now, the beauty of linguistic diversity just how ingenious and how flexible Human minds have invented there are 7,000 languages And we can create many more -- languages, of course, are living things, things that we can hone The tragic thing is that we're losing all the time. We're losing about one language a week, and by some estimates, half of the world's languages And the even worse news is that right now, almost everything we know about is based on studies of usually American at universities. That excludes almost all humans. Right? So what we know about the human mind and our science has to do better. I want to leave you I've told you about how speakers but of course, that's not about It's about how you think. It's how the language that you speak And that gives you the opportunity to ask, &quot;Why do I think the way that I do?&quot; &quot;How could I think differently?&quot; And also, &quot;What thoughts do I wish to create?&quot; Thank you very much. (Applause)