[Music] Ayup everyone seasoned rider or just starting out, there will But before we hit the starter, let's We are looking at brands and bikes known minimum of breakdowns. Value for Money is also without compromising on the motorcycle's quality consider age, reliability and availability Versatility is always a good thing too. Bikes to have a lasting legacy. So if its a tourer, for shorter rides out? Or if it is a sports Think about the different ways you will use is the more you will find yourself riding it. It really is that simple. obvious to the less obvious choices today. Some so saying one is better than another is a bit that some are more obvious choices than others. so some of the comments are very personal. many bikes you think I should have, maybe go and the Bargain Bikes of the 80's and 90's bike there I am not going to include it here. Goldwing here too. I could and maybe should have them all, they will find their place in time. Just try to remember to like the video and To start today we have the Honda VFR750 and VFR800 Interceptor name in the USA until 1990, but impossible to list them all. The VFR750 lasted which was still being produced in 2021. production, and I know there are it new now if Honda would make it again. has stayed fairly steady at around 100HP for the prefer the 750 which was carb fed, others the 800, engineered engines with gear driven cams. The midrange torque than the earlier 750, but they They are complex machines and aren't the only mentioned briefly in the first bombproof the reality is, that outside of routine you shouldn't have much to do as The VFR is a sports bike, but it is a practical passenger with ease and cruise along at highway road or mountain pass and before you know it I have watched VFR's hold their own with much bike that makes it easy to get the best from them. after well, so look for service history more ownership is always a good way to sort out really good. I remember one story was that built to try and repair the damage done to Honda's of the bikes from the early 80's suffered from. sports tourer, then the reality is, Next we have the equally fabled Yamaha YZF600 R6 where the VFR finishes. It is a much if you like a sport bike riding position and I have known plenty of The R6 is so much easier to ride fast than that it is a much more practical ride. The any litre sports bike, and it can find It is only the very best riders who can and then only if they have the roads too. around 120HP when it was first released the first production 600cc bike to be able to figures for this one vary more than most, but had risen to around 125HP and by its peak Again, depending on your choice of carb or fuel would think of as the best to go for. The later they are out of production, I think the later whereas the older models are already beginning When buying, service histories are always had a lot of money thrown at them, and you can gone to the trouble of fitting racetech they are less likely to have scrimped and saved by Plenty of people will have swapped cans, but ask been done, Remember, a loud can doesn't mean is a good silencer and the bike is tuned racing exhaust system complete with downpipes, and they have spent a much bigger chunk of money. say. Well, for one thing, the for another, the R6 is still a lot faster than it has been raced or looks obviously neglected. rev the bike and get it up to speedv and then gear. If it smokes on the overrun then it either way it means work. If you are it can be time consuming. If you are not ok with One thing I will say, I would argue certain after I had thrashed them around a track to clean around within the speed limit. The R6 is one of Next we have the Hinkley era Triumph Bonneville Since the relaunch of Triumph, the triples had in answer to the calls for a new version of Bonneville. An air cooled 360 degree parallel twin design and style of the Bonneville's of old. ironed out by a balancer shaft and produced a fairly basic. A simple design. It sold Triumph were promoting. But it was a good bike. then it was upped to 865cc in 2005. In 2007 the that was disguised to look like carbs, then in disguised to look like a finned air cooled engine. not including the water cooled models here. They little that the earlier models don't do better. get. The few early niggles had been ironed out and models or fuel injection if you want it on the of tune so it lasts well. Finish is good, and There are many variants, from the Speedmaster so there is a good selection to choose from them so you will find plenty with a long service If you want a parallel twin with a more British practical package, then you can't They hold their price well and I can't at home in the city or in the wild and are and luggage for some relaxed touring. as long as you aren't off to Bonneville Next we have the Honda ST1100 Mechanically and technically the Honda It began life in 1990 as the ST1100, then in 2002, capacity was increased and we got the ST1300. The The V4 engine is mounted longitudinally you count the Motus, this is the only full can remember being made, although I do look and I guess it wouldn't surprise me if some old Anyway, I digress. much of the tech from the Goldwing at the more nimble touring bike than the Goldwing. the shaft drive was all but unbreakable, and In real terms, it was aimed at the European Honda was a far faster and smoother as the boring tourers available at the time. around 120HP. This gave them a top speed of all day in comfort, carrying a passenger and as scrape the pegs down on twisty mountain roads. at speed, there aren't many bikes that do it as low as they will get now I think, and the engine They are a big bike, but not as big and heavy gravity is lower on the ST1300, so they feel As long as maintenance has been done irrelevant. I have seen more Pan Europeans with for service history or any signs that someone quality in general is as good as it gets. looking bikes on the market, but they will wherever there might be. up as "Comfort at Speed" then the next bike Now if I told you you could go out and buy a 170mph for less than PS2,000 and never go down in Well, you can. The Honda CBR1100XX Super planet. and if you are lucky and patient that these bikes now is probably at an all time low, which says a lot about these amazing bikes. very high speeds. So if you live on the side even in traffic and around town at slow speeds As soon as it is moving any idea of weight is touring bikes with less power being sold new now. flawless. Power is delivered in a seamless relaxed and short shift, taking advantage of the 10,000rpm for that surge of maximum power. performing ever for high speed riding. The speed tiring to ride fast than many bikes. The gearbox really well straight off the showroom floor. holds its line really well. I have a friend who off. The faces of the many riders was always a a touring bike" that had just whipped their arses. are the best, but I know some will disagree. but it is a matter of taste. Both are fantastic inevitably become a collectors piece in time. do high miles with few issues. As with some cheap as they will ever be. So if you want you down and won't depreciate in value. The Honda The next bike today is the Suzuki GSX 750F Katana time I will call it the Katana. I was lucky and this just isn't that bike. best sport bike engine, detune it then raise the bars and screen a little to give and use what parts are available where possible. continued for the next 20 years. The so the detuned version was always going to win on the same power as the previous model GSXR, so but the difference was hardly discernable. in the midrange of the GSXR though. The exhaust but somehow I think that is an Suspension was softer, but that meant it was comfortable, The ground clearance wasn't but that meant the rider triangle was much practical as an every day ride than the GSXR. as heavy as the VFR, it would still keep track it wouldn't break any records, but you Prices are stupidly cheap for what you get Suzuki's less than wonderful paintwork the trouble of replacing the engine you may have a much easier time of Next we have a very different bike. of the exhibition halls in 2003, but it was production bike. For once, the reality, was that Build quality was absolutely astonishing. The showrooms around the world look very ordinary. needed a new range topping bike that would They decided to take a slightly different route and mounted it in a short, sharp, stocky chassis lights out. This was the start of what became "Join the Dark Side" for the following MT models. boiling over with low end torque. A bike Massey Ferguson in a tractor pull. It was made unlike many of its competition. after the original Vmax, and this bike handled To call it a power cruiser is missing the point At 3,500rpm it could put 150Nm down to the tarmac. clothing. Snap open the throttle and you it is just there like a wall of force. stance and the thunderous exhaust note. it was no slouch between the lights, but its down when accelerating out of corners. Roll on pointless. Short shift through the gears and Because of the build quality the finish on the to stress the engine, and reliability is as good but they are good value, and the prices will screamed collect me as soon as it was released. to the MT01 is the Indian FTR1200. So if that you can enjoy every day, the Next we have the Aprilia Often overlooked in a market full of adventure motorcycle that was rarely appreciated as it road bike, but it has many advantages. The first from 2001 to 2012 used a detuned version It was detuned for 100HP and 100Nm of torque, had with a well designed fairing. It also had a 25 The second gen used the 1200cc engine from the of torque and although it had undergone the same. This meant top speed was pushed up to The engines are both strong and the support of the the deficiencies of the dealership networks. the newer adventure bikes, although in 2003 Raid models that were more off road orientated. You could think of it as more like the that is comparing it to the Multistrada of today. its day. They are a fantastic bike in the the ride quality shines out. On a highway they Build quality is excellent, and their bikes with tender hands. Parts but most parts are available from somewhere. is a riders bike that reminded me of my old Next we have the Kawasaki ZRX1100 and ZRX1200. bucked the retro trend. Instead of following ZRX was based on the bike made famous First released in 1997, it was updated If the Kawasaki ZRX was a person it would wearing skinny ripped jeans, fancy jacket. But that doesn't tell the real story. Both have more than enough power to keep any and 150mph top speeds are not unheard of, although tuning. The engine just pulls and pulls with Build quality is better than your to watch out for. Fasteners can be prone treated with salt in British winter. That can a tube of copper slip, and if you find one where The ZRX is a classic UJM. It isn't the versatile bike that will scratch with or simply take you backwards and forwards to work Fuelling is good and power delivery comes in open road and crack open the throttle and the a roar. But treat it gently and it is a pussycat, Although made until 2011, with they weren't available in all markets for never seemed to push the marketing, and sales Now, prices are already starting to see a rise. a reliable, powerful, naked roadster, Now to our last bike for today, In 1999, Kawasaki took the retro trend a step a much more authentic copy than most retro earlier Kawasaki W1 650 and the Meguro In reality, this bike is a more parallel twins than either the Triumph The early W1 had solved many of the flaws and big end had been built up and oil too. The new W650 just continued that theme. Kawasaki took the old engine and introduced a stroke engine. Power of the new bike but the power was produced at lower revs This really does make the early W650 a with maximum power coming at just 5,000rpm. we were back to a much more The crank from the 650 remained for an 83mm taking capacity up to 773cc. This meant that 6,500rpm. That maximum power remained almost the Weight remained unchanged from the 650 to the is a question about what you want. The W650 has and feels more British than anything else more refined with a less lumpy feel. It revs Both of these bikes are great bikes. They are much bikes that have been released over the years and You could stand a Kawasaki W650, Triumph next to each other and it is obvious did just do it better from my perspective. twin without the oil leaks or breakdowns, maybe Well that about wraps it up again today. take the time to look around the channel. BombProof Bikes video and the Bargain Bikes of the I will link them below in the description. forward to hearing your comments about If you got this far and haven't button and subscribe to the channel. first when our regular updates, news, views It all helps kick the YouTube channel out there to new potential viewers. will be interested too if you could. The really helpful for me if you can share it around. linked in the description below for the best biker exciting motorcycle adventures, and other stories So why not grab yourself a You won't be disappointed. I hope you get some great riding in.