- [Jared] Elevators and live in our cities. In this video, we'll be of an elevator, how it works, which protect us as we ride (electricity crackling) (logo booms) In the 1800s, architects and engineers of how high we could build. As these buildings increased in height, there was somewhat of a limit. It was hard to utilize the upper floors because you had to walk and no one really wanted The reason we started to build higher is because of elevators. In many parts of the world, but in this video, I'll The elevator is not a recent invention. The idea of using a machine this is not a new idea. It can be traced back over 2000 years ago. Various lifting devices such as hoists or cranes, these have been used in various places like factories and construction sites; but lifting people, that If that rope snaps, there is nothing stopping you In the early 1850s, Elisha Otis invented a safety mechanism that changed everything. Let's take a look. (gentle music) This is a simple lift that can be raised or lowered by the rope. The safety mechanism is two pivot arms, and the When the lift is being pulled upward, the pivot arms are rotated, But if the rope suddenly the leaf spring immediately which then comes in contact This stops the elevator Mr. Otis was so sure of his invention that he demonstrated at the World's Fair. He lifted himself up on the elevator and then had someone cut He only fell a few centimeters. This demonstration convinced the public that elevators could be safe Elevators today have multiple but it all started with Elisha Otis. Over the coming decades, elevator shafts became the This allowed for skyscrapers and for the buildings And of course, we have to or more commonly known helpful for moving large amounts of people but only up a few floors. Once those buildings get really tall, the best solution? (elevator door dings) (lively music) (elevator door dings) But for this video, we'll pick up the pace just a little bit. (upbeat music) Let's go over some basic Now, there's a lot of and different ways to make elevators. Some of the mechanisms and names will be slightly on the elevator, so keep that in mind. This is called the shaft or the hoistway, the elevator pit at the very bottom, then we have the cab, which moves up or down inside the shaft, and these are the guide rails. The cab usually has along the rails. There are two main types of elevators, hydraulic elevators In real simple terms, traction elevators lift the and the hydraulic elevators For most of this video, we're gonna look at traction elevators. These are the ones you'll find But first, let's at least get the basics of the hydraulic elevator. This uses a cylinder and a piston. These usually extend several so there's enough length Close by, you'll find a machine room with a pump unit filled with oil. When the elevator needs to go up, the oil is pumped through the The pressure pushes the piston up, which raises the elevator into the air. You'll find hydraulic usually not more than six stories tall. This is due to the length of the cylinder and the pressure involved (bright upbeat music) Okay, traction elevators. Are you ready? Traction elevators are most In some places in the world, these elevators can service Let's not get two carried away, though. I'm gonna demonstrate this We'll keep things simple. At the very top is the machine room. This is where you'll The motor pulls the cables which is basically a On one side, the cables go and on the other side, it The counterweight moves So why do we have this counterweight? Without the counterweight, the motor would have an on only one side. It would have to work a lot The counterweight makes it on the motor. All it has to do is tip the balance so the elevator moves up or down. The counterweight will when it's about halfway filled up. Ideally, the system will work best if it's perfectly balanced, but this won't always be the case. The weight of the elevator This is the controller box. It's like the brains of the elevator, safely moving it up and down. Not all traction elevators a dedicated machine room. They're able to fit the at the very top of the elevator shaft. They refer to this as a machine We won't go into detail about these, but I at least wanna mention them so you know that they exist. Elevators have many to protect the passengers First, you have the machine brake. This is used to stop the and hold the cab steady. There are usually at least sometimes as many as eight cables. Each of these cables is strong of a fully-loaded elevator. The likelihood of all of these cables but if it did happen, Let me show you. Do you remember Mr. Otis' safety mechanism at the beginning of this video? The modern version of this but the main idea is still the same. At the bottom of the elevator There are two clamps, and these are located on Normally, they don't touch so the elevator is allowed But if the lever is pulled, then they move in and grip the guide rail which stops the elevator from falling. The lever is connected to a cable, and this is a separate cable from the ones that lift the cab. This cable attaches to Let's take a look. Back up here in the machine room, this device is called Normally, this spins along as it moves up and down. Inside is a mechanism with two flyweights. Let's say, for whatever reason, that the cab starts to The overspeed governor will spin faster. It spins too fast, these and catch the gear teeth on the side. This will stop the spinning, and the weight of the cab now and there's clamps on both which firmly hold it in place. Now, if you do happen to don't try and force Press the emergency call button to get connected with Let's talk about that door mechanism. (elevator door dings) There are essentially On each floor, you'll find a door. These are usually called And then on the elevator cab itself, you'll find the cab door. So when these are together, we have the cab door We don't want either door to open unless the cab has come to a complete stop at the correct floor. These doors also have if something is in the way, and the elevator won't start moving until the doors are completely closed. Let's look at just the cab for a minute. The door operator is located at the top. This turns some gears, which slides the door open. Notice how each of the hoistway to open by themselves. The doors can only be on top of the cab. When this opens, it will pull Each of the hoistway This ensures that it won't open until the cab is right behind it. Let's look at the mechanism. Each hoistway door has a beak. When this is down, the door won't open. Push up on this bar, and the beak goes up. This allows the door to open. Down below, you'll find Push the one on the left, and it rotates, which pushes up on the bar, So how does this get unlocked then? Well, I'm glad you asked. On the cab door, there's As the cab moves up and down, the clutch moves right around the rollers. When the cab stops, The clutch will push on the pickup roller, which will unlock the mechanism. Both doors can now slide open together. In a rescue situation, or the workers can use a special even if the cab isn't right behind it. Now, a key like this should only be used by authorized personnel who have a good reason And of course, be safe around elevators. Please don't be fooling around. Be responsible and use these machines as they are intended to be used. (uplifting music) My name's Jared. I create 3D animations to show Click the cards to watch another video, or click here to subscribe. Thanks for watching, and (uplifting music)