- Yo, Kwesi. - Let me guess, you No, leave it, leave it on. Leave it on. This is what people gotta - Anyway, I'm looking for You wanna come along? - I would love to join - Today, on &quot;Worth It Lifestyle&quot; we're gonna try three haircuts at three drastically different which one is the most - Ain't that the truth? - You say &quot;Worth It.&quot; - Oh, worth it. - [Steve] Kwesi! - What's up, buddy? - You're looking fresh, as usual. - Thank you, Steve. - You wanna say anything about me? - Um... - No? - You look good, man. - That's why I was I got sticks here, and on the bottom here are the dollar amounts. - [Kwesi] Right. - Whatever you choose, you get, alright? - This one. (dinging) - Oh man! Alex, you get the next one, you ready? (fast funky music) He got the cheap one. The idea of the show is these are the best at the price point. - Okay. So, it's not like a cheap one It's just that some of us like - Like ya boy. - Our first spot is called N Spot Barber here on Crenshaw in Los Angeles. - The most staple black is the spot where you get your haircut. - Really? - Barbershop is like half-way guy who makes you look fresh. - That's a good rate, you get for like 20 bucks. - And sometimes, she massages - Woo. (light rhythmic music) - My name is Chico. I work at The N Spot on Crenshaw and 48th and I will be cutting Alex's hair today. - How long you been cuttin'? - I've been doin' this since I was 15. My mom's best friend - That was it. - Right before school, and then I started practicing on my friends. It became something dealing with different - Can you tell us about The N Spot? - It's been here since 1999. It was opened by Nakia Burns. And this is a woman we're talkin' about, runnin' a barber shop. She's got history behind this. - Was it exciting to - It was scary, the hardest part is getting people to work You have to really hustle. - What's unique about, like, this area and this neighborhood? - [Nakia] People. - Yeah, and really we're down Some of my customers, since they was in high school. Watchin' them grow up that's the best part about it. - Alex is gonna be What do you think will be good for him? - The top of the head needs (laughs) - [Kwesi] That needs to go. - [Chico] And we can give - [Kwesi] Yeah, you need with the cut. - You gonna get, like, a good shadow fade. I'm going to start with the bottom fade, then work my way up to the medium fade. And when we get to the so I'll know how to fade and blend it all in. - [Kwesi] Who's your top Alright, Steven? - Nah, you go first, I don't have enough street cred on this one, Kwesi. - [Kwesi] Who's your top three? - I got Andre 3000, - You know I'm going with Pac, all day. - Number one. - Number two's gotta be Snoop. Knives would have to be three. - [Steven] Alright Kwesi, who you got? - Jay, number one. Kendrick, number two. Number three, can't even front man, Drake. His rap thing has-- - I don't think he been - [Steven] Alright I had time to think about it. One, Biggie. Two, Drake. Three, Chance, sorry. - [Kwesi] There's no judgment here man. - Yes the hell there is. (laughs) You on the West Coast, Come on, bro. You done with the scissoring the top edge, that's when you go with the line up. Once we're done with that, brush 'em off and put the alcohol on 'em. - What is the importance - The fade and the crispy line up. You could have a good line up, man, that's kind of, like, throwin it off. That's $15 for the cut and - [Steven] What do you think? - Hopefully you're not just - [Steven] You just sayin' that? - For real? Thank you. - Can you take off your I wanna admire Chico's work. Nice. - You gotta appreciate the vibes were right, too. It was all love in there. - Haircut fact! - Oh my God, I'm part of the What's the fact, Steven? - In the Middle Ages, barbers, - Yeah. - Weren't just barbers. They bloodletting, bone - All one person? - Yeah. Chico, I would trust him to pull my teeth. - Chico's a good guy. I won't trust Chico to pull my teeth. I don't think Chico has any - I'm a little bit stale, so we're going to go freshen me up. Go to a private salon. - You gonna get your hair recolored? - Oh yeah. If we're going to do this, I'm gonna go all out. Stay fresh. It's not Subway, it's Steven's hair. - Oh, let's be quiet. Let that joke die. Shh, shh. It's still not dead yet, hold on. (bright rhythmic music) - Hi, I'm Tiffany, and And I'm going to give you a haircut, but we're also going to bleach your hair and give it a really cool color. - We were just at a barber shop. - [Tiffany] Okay. - Now we're here at a salon. What is the experience like for a customer walking in the door? - I say, &quot;Hello&quot;, make sure It's really that first, initial minute is building that trust. I'm sitting with them and I'm touching areas I typically don't ask, like, the superficial things of their lives. It's more like, how do you want to feel - So, are you ready to get - Can you help me out here? I want length and I want layers and I just want it to look natural. - I feel like you want but you also wanna have style. - Yeah, I wanna versatile hair cut. - What's your biggest - Making it have volume. - So, when your hair is wet, you know how you wear it down, blow dry it the opposite direction. And then you can control it - What should I do for color? - I want to do something kind of like a storm on - [Steven] Here we go. - So, we're going to bleach your hair. I'm just going to start at your - [Kwesi] Top three - Of course, Tupac and I I mean, there's a lot. Jay-Z, I do like Jay-Z a lot. It's looking promising. Ready to get rinsed out? - Yeah. - One hundred percent relaxed. - Alright, so yeah. - Whoa. (laughs) - [Kwesi] So, what's - Again, rarely it's one time. (upbeat driven music) Alright, let's wash your hair. - Oh man. Whoa! It's, like, not even blonde anymore, it's almost white. - I wanna get my hair washed so bad. - Sometimes, the shampoo bowl is, like, the best place to be in the salon. - Can I just go into the shampoo bowl? - Yeah, of course. - Solid. Cool. - Have you not ever - Never, ever in my life. - Okay. - I'm really happy right now. (moans) (uplifting music) Oh, even this feels good. Thank you. - [Tiffany] You're welcome. We're gonna start with your color. - [Steven] What are you gonna do here? - Dimensional silver, grays, It's like a recipe. - I like that. Here we go. - [Kwesi] So, it's purple - [Tiffany] There's but it will be silver, actually. - [Kwesi] Why does it come out lavender? - [Tiffany] He pulls, you want purple to make tone of silver that you can. - [Kwesi] Wow. So, the - [Tiffany] Yeah, - [Kwesi] Look at him. Don't get used to this, man. (laughs) - Are you ready to see? - Oh, I can see a peek, oh! Yeah, yes. Wow! It's, like, as if a crayon box of pastels exploded on my hair. - [Kwesi] Yeah, the - And we haven't even Are you scissor cutting everything? - Yes, I'm cutting length, shorter pieces within that length, so that you have texture, you have volume. - How do I not lose hair? - Massage your scalp that maybe you are losing hair. It will re-stimulate it. Brushing is the easiest - I don't even recognize - [Kwesi] You've never had - It's the combination of everything. The color, the cut. Watching you watch me. - Watching you, watching me. - [Tiffany] It's supposed to be silver, but once we dry it, - Oh my gosh, nice! This great, wow. - Hold on, don't touch it. - Oh sorry. - (laughs) Just kidding. (laughs) - [Kwesi] You look great, man. - Thanks, Kwesi. Oh my goodness, you were right. I feel so fresh right now. It's shaped so well back here. Are you ready to go to San Antonio? - I'm ready to get rid of this. All of this. - You're up next man. We've made it to San Antonio, and it is-- - Hot. - Very hot. I can't believe we're in just to get a haircut. - That's right, it's - Haircut fact. - The average men's haircut cost in the United States is 20 dollars. - That seems right, I pay - Oh, you live in Los Angeles. Guess the average cost of a haircut in LA. - Probably, 45 bucks. - Wow! You are on point. - Yeah boy. - We're going to Rob the Original Barber. He's known for primarily hair sculpting. - Sounds expensive. - What're you gonna get That's the thing you gotta figure out. - It should be a privilege cut a portrait of your smiling face. - My face? No. - Yep, so everyone knows you're my pal. - No, no, I cannot live What are you going to tell your mom? - &quot;Mom, look at my pal. &quot;Look at my friends.&quot; (laughs) (quick orchestral music) - I'm Rob Ferrel, better known as Rob the Original and today we're going to be in Kwesi's hair. - What makes your shop, - We mainly target clients We do, you know, from beards, no matter what it is. - What prompted you, to like, start doing designs on people's heads? - I wanted to kind of set myself apart and I started designing out portraits. And now it's become a thing - People get people's faces on their hair. - Yes. Life-like portraits. - So, it's like a temporary - Exactly. So, if you were going portrait done, I would recommend get it on your haircut first. - And what was the most intricate haircut you ever gave someone? - &quot;The Last Supper&quot; on a it got almost three million views. - I obviously need a haircut. - First of all, you have less What do you mean, you need a haircut? - I know, this looks good, - After the haircut's done, - Any recommendations - What is it that you like - The only thing I can feel that is me, is I'm very New York, thick and thin. But, I'm a transplant of Los Angeles. - You've got that California love, but you're New York by heart. We could do something dope on your head. - Okay, my head is in your hands. (laughs) - You're in my hands, - Before we start, top three - Tupac. - Boom. - Eminem, Jay-Z. - At least Hov makes it in - Whenever I do hair designs, We're gonna not use the phone and we're just going to freestyle this. - [Steven] Kwesi, how you feel about that? - I feel fine, I think I'm in good hands. Let's do this. - We're going to start 'cause your hair is my canvas today. When I do designs, I that helps me a lot. - I mean, if you want to - I'm definitely going to jam out, then. (rhythmic orchestral music) - I'm gonna to be using and start carving a NY then a CA and do some detailed designs in there. By the way, I carved these, bro. - [Kwesi] Oh yeah? - Yeah, I carved these. I carve images on them. - That's amazing. - Yeah. - You got a lifetime of - (laughs) Thanks, man. - Yeah, man. - [Rob] We're gonna straight razor. I'm gonna go ahead and inside the letters and the Clean it up nice. At first, when I was cutting hair I thought it wasn't looked But, obviously now, there's language that literally on a phone and tell me, &quot;I - [Steven] It's crazy how created so many jobs for people. - Yes, I agree on that. I'm gonna go ahead and apply to bring out some of the contrast areas, to give a more precise image. Let's check it out. - Good looking out Rob. That's amazing. (laughs) Best of both worlds, in a sense. Damn man. It's like normal from the front, like Do the Right Thing and its Boyz in the Hood on this side. - Alright my G, so that's it man. - [Steven] It looks sick, Kwesi. - Thank you, man. This is the most extreme - I hope you enjoy your haircut. Now you can rep New York - Cheers to the tone. - (laughs) Cheers to the tone? - San Antonio. - Oh! - Which haircut was the most - Wow, this is pretty hard. We all have really great haircuts. &quot;N spot&quot;, it feels like you're at a family thanksgiving dinner. It feels super comfortable. But, my worth it winner has to be Rob the Original. The detail of Rob, you gotta admire that. - Watching him slowly chip was insane. Tiffay, Tilee Studios, she haircut and amazing color, but she teaches you to maintain it. For me, my Worth It winner, Tilee Studios, Tiffany Lee. Just because, this color that I've never been able to get this before. Hold up, Alex, who's your worth it winner? What, so we all trust our own spots. - Oh, we did. - Good trip? - It's a good trip man, thank you. - You comin' back on the show? - We'll see what happens. - What do you mean, That was an invitation to the - We'll see what happens. - You're out. Good night. - (laughs) Good night, folks. Oh we should do a Lethal Weapon. Me and you, like this. - [Steven] No! - Back to back. Do that, do that, do it, do it dude. Steven please, Steven please, do it. Do Lethal Weapon with me, please dude. Lethal Weapon, me and my - This has gone too far.