Hey there guys. Paul here from The In this video we're gonna be and we're gonna see how to calculate the fan pulley diameter, the motor pulley diameter, the fan revolutions per minute, the motor revolutions per minute and also what the adjusted if we were to change these. Now, with the fan, if then you can should get a sheet that looks something like this which tells you this is So everything you need should be on here. Unfortunately, all too often, you're gonna come across sheets like this and they have not been completed. There'll be data missing. For instance here, it about the fans and filters but if there are blanks in how to calculate these and if you're a designing then we're gonna look at the calculations for how to actually calculate Now, we're gonna be using a such as fan, motor, so just to bring it up to speed with that. Excuse the pun. We've got the motor here. Then we've got the fan over here. Now these two which are connecting. We've got the belt pulley here. So this is the pulley wheel. And this is another pulley wheel. So this is the fan pulley wheel. This is the motor pulley wheel. When the motor spins, that rotation over through the belt and into the pulley of the and as that fan begins to spin, that's what provides and pushes the air off into the building. So the rate that the motor the revolutions per minute. And also the rate that this pulley spins is also known as the RPM, So we'll have a look at and how fast they need to spin in order to achieve the right flow rate and if you were to change them, what the air flow rate change So the first one we're going to look at, is calculating the fan pulley diameter. Now you can see I've split so we're gonna have the metric and imperial calculations on here. And we've got a formula up here. I've tried to color-code I find it just makes it a lot but the formula we need for this is the fan pulley diameter is equal to the motor pulley diameter multiplied by the divided by the fan RPM. And we got some data in So we can get these figures if you haven't already then you can look it up what the RPM is gonna be For the fan, that's to provide x amount of and the motive this is the So for the first one, we've got a 95 millimeter diameter pulley on the motor pulley diameter. So on here, there's 95 and we know that the motor is Same for the Imperial. And then the fan, in order to achieve the it's gonna be rotating at 3020 RPM. Same for the imperial. So if we do the division we get less than one where it's 0.94735% and it's a percent because of the same units here and it becomes a ratio so it's a percent. Then we've got 95 millimeters, multiplied by that percent equals 90 millimeters, or 3.54 inches so the fan pulley diameter, this bit here, that needs to be having a in order to achieve a design that we need. Now another way to calculate this, if we were to have slowed the motor down. We've changed the flow rate that we need servicing the floor. Say, half the floor is cleared out and we wanna make some energy savings or change the design data, then we can use this formula here. So the new fan pulley diameter is equal to the old fan pulley diameter, multiplied by the old air flow rate, divided by the new air flow rate. So for this though, just from the original from the design data. And if we punch those numbers in, then we can use that for Doing the division, and makes that that a So it's 1.11%. Multiply that by the And that lets us know needs to be 100 So the next thing we can calculate is the motor pulley diameter. Now there could be various Say there's a new motor being a new fan has come in so you want to know what to achieve that correct air flow rate. And for that we'll use this formula here. So the motor pulley diameter is equal to the fan pulley diameter, multiplied by the fan divided by the motor Again, you can get this or from the designer if So if we just drop the numbers in. So on the fan, we're gonna have a 90 millimeter diameter and we'll do the division canceling out the RPM's Multiply that by the fan pulley diameter and that gives us what needs to be which is 95 Another way to do this, if we know there has been and we need to know what for the pulley will be on the motor, then we can use this formula here, which is the new pulley diameter is equal to the old motor pulley diameter, multiplied by the new air flow rate divided by the old air flow rate. Now we know what the old air flow rate is and the diameter of the pulley. This should be the new air flow rate and you can calculate that, and we will shortly in the video or you can take it from the But if we drop these numbers in then obviously these will So that will give us a percent again and we can see that the multiplied by that percent is equal now to 85 and that's the new motor pulley diameter. So then we can look at what in order to achieve our design criteria. and for that we'll use this formula here which is the fan RPM is equal to the motor RPM, multiplied, and we already We should've calculated them or taken them from the or from the design data. So if we drop the numbers in, then obviously we'll get if we do a division of and then we can multiply these together and that will bring us to 3020 RPM on both metric and imperial because it's the same units there and that is the speed that to achieve the design in flow rate. Now we can also calculate the motor RPM and we do that using that formula here. So the motor revolutions per minute, equals the fan pulley diameter multiplied by the fan divided by motor pulley diameter. And so, we can drop those numbers there in and this will then come out Imperial and metric. Again you can just calculate these or look them up from the manufacturers. Now if you have made and the motors et cetera, then we want to know what the and will it satisfy the design criteria or are we making the reduction in order to reduce the air flow rate to make some energy savings? And if that's the case then so the new air flow rate is equal to the old air flow rate multiplied by the division of the fan RPM. The new divided by the fan RPM of the old. So we can then stick So we know what the old flow rate was and what they adjusted RPM is going to be and the original RPM's so and this will bring us down and we can multiply that out and that'll bring us to 1.638 There should be a cube there. Or 3470 cubic feet per minute. Okay that is it for this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you've enjoyed and it's helped you. If you have any questions, please leave them in the Don't forget to like, subscribe and share and also check on our website, Once again, thank you