Today I am going to show you how to restore this chef's knife. First we go to our workbench, where I am going to remove the plastic handle. Adapt this soldering iron to be able to cut the plastic handle with heat. I use a screwdriver to separate the plastic from the blade and with tweezers I took off the remaining part of the plastic handle. To facilitate cleaning the steel blade, on a plastic tray I use detergent, water and a used toothbrush (do not throw them away because they are very useful), and to protect my hands, nitrile gloves. With a square and a black fibron frame where to cut the blade. This part is very important, as knife blades are tempered, we should NOT HEAT THE BLADE WHEN CUTTING IT, I used a angle grinder with a metal cutting disc, you can also use a miter saw. The cut must be made by roughing the steel blade with the disc and not by cutting,do not want to cut in one pass. Pay attention that the temperature of the steel blade does not increase; Wiping it with a damp cloth after each cut can help with this. Since this is a kitchen knife, I want to shape it into a chef's knife. For this I am going to use a bench grinder, In this case I have two bench grinder wheels with different grain thicknesses, one coarse for coarse roughing and another fine for finishing work. To be able to perform the coarse sanding task I have an adapter to add an expandable rubber drum wheel, where can I change the belt sandpaper, from coarse grains to very fine grains. This time I started with a 60 grit, went through an 80 grit and a 120 grit and ended up with a 220 grit. The 220 sandpaper still leaves marks, to remove them I am going to work with a 500 grit sandpaper and then with a 600 grit sandpaper. Now the 600 sandpaper, always sand towards the same side otherwise we will generate new scratches. Now it is ready for polishing. We put polishing paste on the thick polishing cloth. Connect the adapter to the bench grinder so you can use it as a polisher. Now use a much softer cloth and white paste to remove the smaller marks. The result is a very good mirror. With masking tape or painter's tape we cover the blade to protect the steel from scratches when handling it. I cover it with cardboard to protect it from any impact and use a tin snips tool to cut the tape. With a microfiber I draw where the new wooden handle should go. We hold it with the bench vise, and using a caliper and the microfiber we mark the center of the wood and with the help of the square we finish joining the marked points. We are going to use a wick long enough to allow us to reach the bottom of the tang of the steel blade, for this task I am going to use the hand drill, this will allow me to hollow out the interior of the wood. We drill the wood to the desired depth, which in this case is the tang of the steel blade. We use a angle grinder with a saw blade to cut the wood, to give it the shape of the defense or guard of the chef's knife. We give the wood a better shape with a rasp. As you can see in the background and as a recommendation, always work with safety elements, safety glasses, earplugs, a dust mask and gloves to protect our hands. Remember: SAFETY FIRST Ok, after marking the wood with the microfiber where the blade should be inserted, we use a hacksaw to cut a little. With a hammer and a chisel we remove the excess wood, and with a hand saw we finished cleaning the inside. Now we are going to do the defense or also called hand guard, for this I am going to use an aluminum sheet, we bend the aluminum sheet until it takes the shape, we mark it with the microfiber and proceed to cut it with a hacksaw. You can use a miter saw if you have one, that would make your job easier. To mark where and in what shape we should cut the aluminum sheet, we are going to use a steel rule, pen, pencil, a sheet of paper and a cutter. Once we have the mold we are going to stick it to the wooden handle with masking tape, and now with the pencil, if it is a soft pencil better, we mark the hole where the steel sheet is going to go. The relief was marked, we highlighted it by highlighting it with the pencil, we marked with the microfiber and proceeded to drill holes. After having made a hole at each end, we proceed to mark with a microfiber and mask with blue adhesive tape. With a hand saw we make a gap between the holes. With a small wick we make a few more holes. With a jigsaw blade and carefully we are going to make the cutout in the aluminum sheet. With a slightly larger wick we even out the sides a little Keeping the piece held in the bench vise and with the help of some miniature files we match the interior sides. On the bench grinder we place zirconium Sanding Belt to begin sanding Aluminum, being a soft material, does not require much effort to work with it, in this case we work with 60, 80, 120 and 220 grit sandpaper, and we finish by hand with 600 grit sandpaper to leave it ready for polishing. We place the aluminum plate in a smaller vise and with the help of different files, square, round and flat, we give it the correct shape. Then we finish it with a mirror polish on the bench grinder. We are going to proceed to assemble the chef's knife (the wooden handle, the aluminum guard and the stainless steel blade). For this we are going to use two-component epoxy glue, mix well and apply inside and on all surfaces to be glued. We assemble all the pieces and with the help of presses we keep all the pieces tight for 48 hours. 48 hours later it is ready to remove the presses and continue our project. We have to put some rivets to better secure the blade to the wooden handle, for this we are going to use some old bronze keys. We place the bronze key in the bench vice and with the help of a hacksaw we cut them. Ok, perfect, now that we have the bronze cylinder we are going to measure it with the caliper, it is 4.7 millimeters (0.185039 inches), and the wick is 4 millimeters (0.157 inches), we have to take it to that measurement. We are going to use the hand drill as a metal lathe to turn the rivets. Now we turned the rivet, first with a coarse metal file and then with a fine metal file, and we finished the rivet with 80 grit sandpaper. We loosen the drill chuck with a chuck wrench and we have our rivet ready to use. Place the knife on some wooden blocks and and we make the holes to place the rivets with the wick of 4 millimeters (0.157 inches). With a pencil we mark the entire contour of the handle with the shape we want to give it, and then with a marker we highlight the drawing. Returning to the workbench, we hold the handle of the knife in the bench vise, and with a hand saw we cut off the excess wood. With the angle grinder and wood saw blade we roughly roughen and shape the handle of the knife. We change the saw blade of the angle grinder for a flap disc 60 grit. Here use a rasp to work wood in a more controlled way. and for the curved parts of the handle use a round rasp. With the vernier caliper and a microfiber we mark the maximum width that the knife guard should have on each side of the blade. Again we change the angle grinder disc for grinder disc for metal. One detail to keep in mind when using files, try not to touch the metal of the file with your bare hands, since sweat will rust the tool, to avoid this, I recommend using gloves. In this case, since I am sanding with a wooden block, I use non-slip gloves to protect my hands. We place the bronze rivets and with the help of a screw I make a mark on them and then I rivet it by hitting it with a tip. And as a decorative detail we placed a rivet on the top. On the bench grinder we sand the rivets until they are flush with the wood. We give it the final sanding first with 150 grit sandpaper and finish with 220 grit sandpaper. With a paint brush I apply a moisturizing oil to protect the wood, in this case I use teak oil. We let it rest for 12 hours, we apply 1 more layer of teak oil and let it rest for another 12 hours, this will allow it to slowly absorb the protective oil. With a cloth I remove the excess oil. With the help of a cutter and tweezers, I remove the excess epoxy glue and the tape. A little sanding on the edge of the aluminum, and we give it the final polish with the bench polisher. And lastly and most importantly the knife sharpener, our whetstone. The whetstone is always used wet, first we sharpen with the coarse grain and then move on to the finer grain, this way we will obtain an excellent edge for our knife. It turned out very well, with an ergonomic handle, I love the result. I hope you liked it too, I'll see you in the next restoration video, Greetings :)