In the autumn of 1944, the Philippine for the largest naval battle in history. It was fought by the combined American and the Imperial Japanese and involved about 300 ships, 2,000 This was also the last naval battle But first, let's set the stage by having ten years prior to that. In 1934, the Japanese leadership decided and London Naval Treaties that had been restricting its naval Japan's navy of its numerical By that time, Japan had withdrawn also from over the Manchurian Incident, The ambitions of the leaders made the Pacific Ocean and Southeast and the Japanese expansion affected pretty As similar things were happening in Europe, Japan was building up its military to having a formidable Navy. However, the industrial output of Japan programs of the main maritime powers The Japanese admirals developed plans for superior to their counterparts The Imperial Navy held preliminary studies with greater displacement than the 35,000 tons standard from Japan believed that the United States through the Panama Canal And they estimated that the limit Yamato-class battleships were designed strategy of the 1930s. The planning of the Imperial Japanese Navy a defensive posture and wait for the enemy it in a decisive and sharp battle off The Imperial Japanese Navy developed a the US fleet prior to its arrival According to the first stage would first be used to weaken then bombers from land bases Airstrikes launched from carriers would Fast heavy cruisers working with destroyer making use of their long-range All of this would whittle down to a size that the Japanese could defeat Since it was assumed that the American the Japanese battleships should be Although five Yamato-class vessels and an aircraft carrier Yamato was laid down on November 4, 1937, and declared operable on December 16, 1941. Musashi was laid down on March 29, 1938, and deemed operable in August 1942. Until the end of 1942, as well as outfitting and combat Displacing 72,000 long tons at full load, battleships ever constructed. For comparison: the American Iowa-class had the same length, On Sunday morning, December 7, 1941, Chuichi Nagumo struck a crushing blow Japan had started This was one of more than a dozen on overseas territories of The United States, By the end of 1941, they captured and the American military base on Guam. At the beginning of 1942, General Yamashita the invasion of Malaya capturing about 80,000 men. In the Philippines, about 70,000 Americans of the American troops, General MacArthur, At the beginning of the same year, (which was under the control and British Burma had been Japanese troops reached Battles were waged in New Guinea. Japan set to look towards In the spring of 1942, American to decrypt the Japanese military codes, of the enemy's intentions. It proved crucial in one of the biggest naval Luring the American aircraft carriers into and occupying Midway was part to extend Japan's defensive perimeter When, at the start of the battle took off from the decks of their aircraft following a plan developed by the new Admiral Chester Nimitz, The surviving aircraft simply had nowhere aircraft were lost. The best trained and most experienced pilots and Battleship Yamato, the flagship of the She didn't engage the enemy, as she was 300 Earlier, on May 7-8, another major naval The goal of the advancing Japanese force which was intended to be the On paper, the Japanese Navy were victorious, that they had to abandon the attack. To enable further attacks and the bombing the island of Guadalcanal Fighting for the island went at the cost of enormous losses the Allies secured the victory. A possible turning point in the war was Admiral Yamamoto. On April 18, 1943, the Americans conducted the aircraft transporting him. With all of this exhausting attrition, in materiel and men rapidly became casualties, while the United States' capabilities made losses far By mid- 1943, they would launch an aircraft production rate was three Everything for the The Americans began the offensive On November 20, they landed The Tarawa garrison was overwhelmed The next target for the Americans on the Marshall Islands. Powerful carrier-based air raids destroyed but they did little to help After a series of massive air raids the Americans captured Again, the Japanese held their own, The Japanese Combined Fleet did not respond had become immensely stronger. US Pacific Fleet received new Essex-class with 16 inch guns, destroyers, Threatened by the American advance the Combined Fleet couldn't help on the Admiralty Islands, From April 9, 1943 to February 14, 1944, five light cruisers, one escort and one battleship. were slammed with damaged ships. Next was the Enewetak Atoll, the largest Then followed the airstrike on Truk, and it was also the anchorage with 50 transports and escort Between the air attacks and surface ship the blow to the Japanese was with the concurrent irreplaceable After the Japanese air threat was went in to sink everything floating. The Japanese decided to keep the internal the Mariana Islands, They called it operation KON the forces iin threatened areas, the Combined Fleet. With growing pressure the plan was revised several times. would be delivered from It was there that they hoped to conduct However, the advance of MacArthur In May, he captured Sarmi and then This force the Japanese The A-GO plan was then to engage -- the "decisive battle" in the region where the Japanese Navy could count from the nearby island garrisons. as the Battle of the Philippine Sea, by American aviators, while the Japanese, prefer their designation-- The 2nd Fleet of Vice-Admiral Kurita ahead of the Ozawa's strike carriers. Congo and Haruna with seven heavy cruisers of Japanese ships, although the big-gun by three light aircraft carriers: This pointed to its implied role as bait. They decided to bypass the option of Because they had other Nevertheless, it was here on June 19, 1944, Although the incoming aircraft had been turned to port and opened fire. at a range of about 16 miles. to be the only ship to get it right, Four Zero fighters were damaged. in the sea of the huge losses suffered The battleships had dodged their bullet were focused on their aircraft carriers. at Okinawa for splash-and-go refueling, In late June, both super-battleships There, Yamato received five more and loaded an infantry regiment and After one more reshuffling, the formation (1st Battleship Division - Yamato and Musashi, --eight vessels, light cruiser Noshiro (Nagato and Kongo, heavy cruiser Mogami, After leaving Kure on July 9 and arriving Group A went to the rearward anchorage with the rest of the Mobile Fleet. On July 16, the 1st battleship division and stayed there for quite some time. For three months, the sister ships forming a well-coordinated On August 12, 1944, Captain Toshihira (on October 15, he was One of his first jobs was an emergency paint from the Singapore Maritime Arsenal. All of these activities were not for nothing: have a real job to do. to land at the Philippines, and this time So, after all that, we've painted a bigger and we can now start on the biggest Bear in mind, Japan had had one of the most powerful been built in violation Nevertheless, it was testimony to the pace in Japan. And it was partly the reason for the amongst the ruling elite. hammer, the problems all start The rapid offensive of the Japanese troops of the war was largely the work of the of the seas until late 1942. However, the United States the initiative at sea and, reduced the Japanese fleet. perhaps the last, The Battle of Leyte Gulf, was undoubtedly the pinnacle Combined Fleet command used The stakes were too high: if the this would undermined the entire Japanese and army forces deeped behind enemy lines,whether suffered defeat in detail. The Americans, amongst other things, of returning to the hilippines anyway. asset blocked by the Japanese Navy in 1942 Landing on the Philippines was a must, from the Fleet. Operation Sho-Go was an extremely The Japanese fleet was divided into three Vice Admiral Jisaburo Ozawa's ships--known American covering forces away from Leyte. several aircraft carriers, but these would The carriers would serve as the main bait, As the U.S. covering forces were lured away, on Leyte from the west. Shoji Nishimura and Kiyohide Shima would strike The &quot;Center Force&quot; under Vice Admiral of the attacking forces--would pass through into the Philippine Sea, turn southwards, Had the &quot;carrier bait&quot; plan failed, and if at Nishimura, the assault would have been in the worst-case scenario, by only one group. included battleships (Fuso and Yamashiro carrying battleships Ise and Hyuga with to be Kurita's 1st raiding force two light cruisers, By the time the Japanese in Philippine waters, Vice-Admiral Shigeru Fukudome of his aircraft and was unable to provide although the Imperial Supreme Command the defense against the enemies landing. After the landing on Leyte Island, Admiral Halsey detached two of his carrier to provision and rearm. in sequence, with McCain's group being This was when Halsey received a submarine Darter, formation on radar and confirmed visually the approach of When Darter's contact report came in, but allowed Vice Admiral John S. McCain, to continue towards Ulithi, rendezvous and get closer to the Philippines. On 24 October, at 5.24, Darter, travelling and surprisingly successful attack. formation, but without a noticeable The second group was following in a Darter fired a salvo of six torpedoes, the heavy cruiser Atago. Ten minutes later, Takao, with another spread of torpedoes, Takao turned back to Brunei, escorted At 05:56, Dace scored four cruiser Maya (which was a Atago and Maya quickly sank. Indeed Atago to survive. What at all is quite the Japanese destroyer Kishinami, and then later transferred to Yamato. dengue fever, any good at all. her to the bottom. Maya's death toll was to rescue 769 personnel. Admiral Kurita, now aboard Yamato, Sibuyan Sea at 06:30. Nishimura The next phase of the battle was but Kurita hoped that Fukudome's pilots Kurita even catapulted his deck aircraft But it was a bit of a pipedream, since in the Philippines. Meanwhile, three waves of aircraft from his First Air against the Rear Admiral Frederick Sherman's of some 50 to 60 aircraft. were intercepted and shot down or driven combat air patrols. However, one Japanese and hit the light carrier Princeton with The resulting explosion caused a severe fire sprinkler system failed to operate. there was an enormous explosion in the casualties aboard Princeton, and even Birmingham, which come back alongside to Birmingham was so badly damaged that she Another light cruiser and two All efforts to save Princeton failed, and she was finally scuttled--torpedoed by the Of Princeton's crew, 108 men were killed, by nearby ships. USS Princeton became the the battles around Leyte Gulf. Although the light aircraft carrier was sunk, which left few to cover Kurita's ships. he was to suffer five air attacks by The attacks began later in the morning and comprising about 259 aircraft. The attacks 13 torpedoes hits port side and seven seven portside, When the crippled Musashi fell behind, before being replaced by destroyers No single ship could withstand matter how large, Of the 2,279 crew members, 991 died. At 13.30, two bombs hit Yamato. The hit to she shipped some 2000 tons and started to right her. At 14:20 Nagato received sompartment portside, which slowed her down, 4 midship guns. The second hit took out the to repair the boiler, during which time her At 13:38 heavy cruiser Tone received two nearby, none of that affected At 13:15 destroyer Kiyosimo received a damaging cables and destroying anti-aircraft Her speed also dropped to some 21 knots. Fujinami starboard bow, Several near misses destroyed Urakaze's of rivets and reduced her pace to 28 knots. Kurita couldn't have known that the fifth and Halsey recalled the aircraft Therefore, it's not surprising that Kurita withdrawal until his fighters arrived to seaplanes be returned to their ships, to fulfill his requests. On his own west from 15:00 to 16:14, completely for a rendezvous with Force C. and passed the San Bernardino TF 38 at dawn on October 25. Kurita's Center Force emerged unopposed and steamed southward along the coast of In its path stood only the 7th Fleet's of sixteen small, slow and unarmored of lightly armed and unarmored destroyers This began what has become known as Kurita's force caught Rear Admiral Sprague directed his carriers to launch they had (including depth and then make for the cover east. He ordered the escorts to make a smoke screen to conceal Their own daring &quot;fight against overwhelming damaged the heavy cruiser Kumano and forced destroyers returned the Japanese fire with all and even scored some hits. As the desperate surface action was coming put his Special Attack Units into launching kamikaze attacks and hitting the kamikaze aircraft. She sank after a series The ferocity of the defense seemingly that they were engaging major fleet units destroyers. The confusion was and Kurita failed to pick off He then abruptly broke the order to all ships Although, generally speaking, greatest battle to begin was quite reasonable to what he knew. He and a destroyer escort. But since leaving five heavy cruisers, with another two heavy of the Northern Force were damaged The results of the battle left no doubt of gun armed ships now stood no chance without carriers covered by only escorts and torpedo enough aircraft and determined pilots and pointing fingers of people, that really their fleet on this hopeless but more of Admiral Supreme Headquarters for confidence that one against the American fleet with their Of course, the Taffy-3 escorts were hellbent of only three carrier-based groups forced mainly on defending Vice-Admial Jisaburo Ozawa knew his task His Northern Force was built around four World War I battleships that had been Hyuga and Ise (but neither ship carried any cruisers, and eight destroyers. Ozawa's divested of all but 108 aircraft, and he When the message arrived on October 24th started moving north. However, at about 8 pm, Toyoda gave the &quot;with faith in divine providence.&quot; during the night of October 24th, he But now he knew that Halsey was heading Halsey could do to his Around dawn on October 25th, Ozawa launched few aircraft, to the airfields of the leaving only 13 fighters for himself, since the expected raid of Having spotted the incoming aircraft, at 07:07, Ozawa had divided his Mobile Group five consisted Zuikaku and light aircraft carrier Zuiho, carrier Ise; light cruisers Oyodo and Tama; and Kuva. It was followed by Group six: the none aircraft carrying Hyuga; light cruiser Simotsuki, Suty, and Maki. American aircraft also attacked in several The first (consisting of about 80 aircraft) The second ( of about 50 aircraft) and then launched a six. Attacking aircrafts in from all directions. Zuikaku was immediately losing speed and dropping out of battle. Two bombs exploded by Ise's side, and Oedo which caused little damage. caught fire, exploded at 07:56 and sank. - she was listing heavily to port and lost The first attack lasted from 07:20 to 07:59. sinking the carrier Chitose. pursued by the American fleet. The third attack began at 12:05. Zuikaku, in the attack on Pearl Harbor, was now 100 bombers and torpedo aircraft. obviously firing all her using rocket launchers. The rockets hoped would entangle the propellers which seem to little be late in She was also hit and four bombs (and also suffered several rendered her immobile. Three cruisers survived the battle as did seven destroyers. In this battle, aircraft carriers. and he had given Kurita's force the opportunity Admiral Halsey's force ( again he was on Kurita's squadron, but Halsey arrived in the Kurita's ships had passed through. found the destroyer Novaki, At about 23:10, the American submarine Jallao of Ozawa's force. And this marked the The Imperial Japanese Navy losses and carriers (Zuikaku, Zuiho, Chitose, and (Musashi, Yamashiro, Fuso); eight cruisers Suzuya, Mogami); and 12 destroyers Asagumo, Novaki, Fujinami, Akitsuki, were lost in the following Total casualties were estimated about were significantly lighter: one three destroyers, and an escort During the battle, the American Navy did the strength of the Southern Force, sustained by Kurita in the Sibuyan Sea, However, they were so superior in strength had no meaningful impact on the course On the other hand, Japanese command also (for example, by Shima and Nishimura of Kurita from Samar). The battle without aircover. After this battle, operations. The United States managed to and launch an offensive deep into the cutting of the supply and Bornei to Japan. the first sorties of kamikaze aircraft, After this crushing defeat, longer had a navy. of the Combined Fleet went to the bay in Singapore, where there was plenty of The rest returned home, where there was So that was all, but the last page of the except for the grim list of ships sunk by three more battles remained--Mindoro,