Hey, how are you doing? Today we're going to check out going to look at 3 different variations. blues form. The next one we're change which moves to a chord a one, hence it's name. And the other seem to be a term that I use and seem to be a generic kind of a we get there why I would call it We're gonna do it in 3 different need to explain a little bit about Now we use a little system where degres. Some of you might remember chords in a key. So in a blues we're chords. OK? So all of the chord I'll be saying this one doesn't go will make sense a little bit more each different key. But just remember name of our key. The IV chord is of the major scale of that key. that. If we think in the key of C. E would be the III, F would be the IV, and V in the key of C would be doing a 12 bar blues in the key of C to be doing them in the key of those keys we're going to learn 7th chords. So we will be checking to do the standard 12 bar blues Standard 12 bar progression is 4 bars chord A, 2 bars on the IV chord, back to the I chord for 2 bars back of the V chord, the IV chord, the I chord case will be E7, D7, A7 and E7. Let's play through it. So starting have 1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 2, 3, 4, to the D7, the IV chord, 1, 2, 3, 4 1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 2 now 1 bar of each D7, the IV chord, A7 to E7. D7 1...2... back to A7 1...2...one bar Now at first it might seem there's but you're gonna find is that you time to change chords. That won't weeks, maybe a few months. But you a very, very good thing to learn. It songs that you learned to play. groups of 4 bars, groups of 8 bars, basically. And by practicing the different changes, because you to be on one chord for 4 bars, another chord, still making up So you've got all of these kind of learn to memorise and it will be takes practice, like everything else. you go through is playing your doing strumming on the beat the go at adding that shuffle strumming or something like that, that can along and you hear the bass moving the form, the form is very important. 11 1/2 bar blues or 13 bar blues talk about is a quick change blues. gonna do in the key of E and the blues is it goes to chord IV in the I chord then 1 bar on the IV chord another 2 bars. OK? So in this case IV chord in the key of E is A7. So on A7 and then we go back to E7 sequence will be the same as the is a very, very common one. Really Accuse Me&quot; by Eric Clapton which So let's have a play through of to A7 2, 3, 4 back to E7 2, 3, 4 the rest is the same as the standard and the back to E 2, 3, 4, 2 bars of A7 for 1 bar, E7 for 1 bar, B7 for is in like I, IV, V is exactly the except for bar 2 where it goes to a quick change to the IV. Again playing like I did there early, very groovy, it's about learning you're making the chord changes at hip with that you could start putting We'll talk about that little turn before your accuse me, beginners So that is a quick change blues. out is called a slow change blues. I've been searching around and official term for it and I can't 12 bar blues. So 4 bores, 4 bores!, on the IV chord, back to 2 bars on is where it's different and it and then 2 bars on the I chord. bars in a row of the I chord, bars Quite a long stay there on the uses this one is &quot;Johnny be Good&quot;. you stay on the V chord for 2 bars, in bars...what would it be 9 and 12 we have it just in bars 9 and 10 only That's the important deal. In the key the IV chord would be C7 and the a play through a slow change in G. 1, 2, 3, 4, bar 2, 2 ,3, 4, bar 3, change to C7 for 2 bars, for 2 bars, 2, 3, 4, now 2 bars back to G7, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4. start. Making sure you memorise little blocs of 4. OK? Paticularly 1, 1, 1, 1, 4, 4, 1, 1, 5, 5, 1, 1. to remember and it's very common. are collectively just 12 bar blues. I made as a teenager, because I that I just thought 12 bar blues was the standard one all the time, Good&quot; or I was playing &quot;Status quo&quot; standard form and I hadn't, I basically enough attention. As you listen more would find the different blues chord sequences. You can kind of one. Si if you just played the standard &quot;Johnny be Good&quot; using that standard really mind probably. In fact I'm But if you start to pay attention Sometimes songs use different in different points in the song. &quot;Keep Your Hands to Yourself&quot; has a thing going on in the verses but standard 12 bar blues. So, maybe a now. Memory is failing me. But you 12 bar blues variations for different with all 3 of these variations. lesson I'm gonna talk about a little use each one of those different chord there are hundreds, thousands, probably use the 12 bar blues sequence for about finding the ones you really Do practice now your standard quick change in the key of E and But then have a go at mixing it in the key of A and then maybe do Just have a muck around. Blues form. Even though I'm kind of giving play around with it. Experiment as can come up with. There are no changing the form of the 12 bar your own song. That would be pretty Anyway, I hope you enjoyed this that you've got some songs to have to practice time. I'll see you with You all take care of yourselves.