Thank you very much, it's great to be here in Provo, Utah. (audience applauding) I live in Los Angeles, which is almost exactly the same. (audience laughing) I didn't grow up in LA. I grew up in Ohio--Cleveland, Ohio. Somebody, anybody? I come from a big family, though. I'm the youngest of 11--11 kids. My mom never had a period. That's a true story. (audience laughing) She pretty much just had people (audience laughing) and we're spread out. My oldest brother is 65 years old. Those are some sweet, sweet hand-me-downs right there. (audience laughing) I was wearing bell bottoms in 1985. (audience laughing) Yeah, they're hip now. Back then I was getting my butt kicked by eight guys in parachute pants. (audience laughing) People are like, you must've been spoiled being the youngest. It's the opposite. 11 kids, by the time I came along, the party was over. There's no baby pictures of me or paperwork that proves I exist. (audience laughing) I'm vaccinated for nothing. There's a good chance I might have smallpox right now. (audience laughing) By the time I was 10, my folks didn't give a fat frog's fanny. I have seven brothers, my dad was toast about anything. One time I was like, Dad, I want to join Cub Scouts. He's like, &quot;Ugh, &quot;how'd you find out about that? (audience laughing) &quot;I'm exhausted. &quot;Have you no mercy?&quot; (audience laughing) But I joined, he did his best. We did the Pinewood Derby. Does that ring a bell, gang? Heck yeah, they give you a block of wood, some wheels, you're supposed to construct a race car with your dad. (audience laughing) I guess it would help if your dad was handy. (audience laughing) My dad had trouble slapping together a hoagie. (audience laughing) We got done, I swear I had a block of wood with four wheels Scotch taped to the side. (audience laughing) The same side. (audience laughing) I'm like, dad, it's still square. He goes, &quot;It's a Volvo. (audience laughing) &quot;That's a safe car, young man.&quot; I love my dad. My dad turned 90 last month, everybody. The big nine-o. (audience cheers) Aw thanks, you don't have to clap. He goes to bed at 3:30. (audience laughing) We had a big party, it's tough on the body for him. What do you get him, you know? I want to get him one of those novelty coffee mugs that says, 'life starts at 90.' They don't make those. (audience laughing) I couldn't even get a card that said happy 90th. I had to get a kids card. It said, 'look who's nine,' and I drew in a zero. (audience laughing) 90, my wife's like, you'll probably live longer than that. I'm like, geez, I hope not. I have not been saving money for that at all. (audience laughing) The day I retire, I'm just going to fill my shorts with chum and swim into the ocean. (audience laughing) Adios, I paid the pool boy. (audience laughing) He's in good shape. My dad works a little bit still, my dad's a veterinarian. Thank you, that's an animal doctor. Sir, you're glazed over on me there. He's like, oh, he was in the army? (audience laughing) It sounds neat, but he was so cheap. He thought being a veterinarian qualified him to be our family physician. (audience laughing) What a nightmare that was. One time when I was little I cut my foot on some glass. He refused to take me to the people doctor. He rigged it up himself with dog stitches. Then I had to walk to school with one of them biggie cones around my head. (audience laughing) Started to rain, I panicked, because the cone-- (audience laughing) the cone, it would-- the cone would collect the water, sir, like a funnel. Let's catch up, let's catch up. (audience laughing) Yeah, 90 years old. My dad's mother, my nana, she lived to be 98. That's a miracle, isn't it? Her secret? Very strict diet of cigarettes and butter. I'm not kidding, she smoked four packs a day for 100 years. I remember going to my dad, I go, hey, maybe we should get Nana to cut down on smoke and my dad's like, &quot;Danny, at this point &quot;that tar and nicotine is the only thing &quot;holding your grandmother together. (audience laughing) &quot;Don't touch her.&quot; We loved her to death. She was from Ireland, Limerick, Ireland. She was Miss Irish Cincinnati 1916. That's how old she was. That may not have been a real pageant. It was probably just a drinking contest, (audience laughing) followed by some boxing. (audience laughing) By the time I knew her, she was already 90 years old. My parents, they had her babysit me for Pete's sake. Or maybe I was supposed to watch her, I don't know. Neither one of us were allowed to touch the stove (audience laughing) and she had the worst advice. She'd be like, &quot;Danny, there's no point &quot;in brushing your teeth &quot;before you go to bed. &quot;You're not going to see &quot;anybody you know.&quot; Really? (audience laughing) One time she goes, &quot;Danny walk to the store, &quot;get your Nana bottle of beer &quot;and a pack of Chesterfields.&quot; I'm like, I'm 10. She goes, &quot;Oh, I'll write you a note.&quot; (audience laughing) And she did, and they gave it to me. (audience laughing) I guess at 10 you're innocent. I was 16. I was like, oh, I should have kept those notes. (audience laughing) I say Cleveland, Ohio. I'm really from Bath township, Bath, Ohio. I don't know if you heard of Bath, some famous people have lived there. LeBron James, basketball player. Tore down about 25 houses, built his own. Jeffrey Dahmer, serial killer. Bath, Ohio, everybody. Whoohoo, that woke you up, tiger. (audience laughing) Do you know who Jeffrey Dahmer was? Serial killer. Neighbor. (audience laughing) Trick or treat. (audience laughing) Here's the creepy part, my dad's doubles tennis partner was his father, they were best friends. I swear that's true. That's a thousand percent. When all that went down, my dad's like, I don't know him. (audience laughing) I mean, that's gotta be awkward. You're warming up for tennis, you're stretching out. It's like, &quot;Hey Jerry, how's Dan?&quot; Oh he's great. Hey, how's your boy Jeffrey? &quot;Well, we're disappointed. (audience laughing) &quot;He's eating people again.&quot; (audience laughing) What are you going to do with these kids? (audience laughing) And my mom is so sweet. If she knows you, she will never believe anything bad about you ever. We're watching this on the news. I'm like, oh my gosh, Mom, can you believe this? She goes, &quot;Now, Danny, &quot;let's not jump to conclusions.&quot; I'm like, well, they found a freaking head in his freezer. (audience laughing) I don't think we're making a big leap there, Mom. (audience laughing) &quot;Now, we don't know all the facts.&quot; Well, we know one fact. They found a freaking head in his freezer. (audience laughing) We're not going to need Colombo for this one. (audience laughing) &quot;Maybe it's a misunderstanding.&quot; Head in the freezer, Mom. (audience laughing) He's not going to make the Christmas party this year. (audience laughing) You, how old are you? 17, what's that, fourth grade? (audience laughing) You are so spoiled. 17, you probably got your own computer for your high school work. Your own laptop with your name and a sticker. (audience laughing) Spoiled, you know what I used in college? A typewriter. Have you ever even seen a typewriter at a museum? (audience laughing) How about white out? Does that ring a bell, white out? No, it doesn't, does it? Corrective ribbon? Ever wrestled that for an hour and a half trying to get a term paper done? (audience laughing) Backspacing your way to hell. (audience laughing) I'm so close to choking you, you have no idea. You have no idea how close I am to coming down there and choking you. (audience laughing) Got some married people here tonight, fantastic. (audience laughing) My wife and I, we just celebrated our anniversary. Very happy. We're still in love, we're an interracial couple. Thank you, my wife is Canadian. (audience laughing) She's from way up there, Yellowknife. That's so far North. If you have a globe, it's where the metal part goes in the top and it spins. (audience laughing) It's all good, I don't know. We're opposites as can be, yeah. One thing, my wife's a vegetarian, any vegetarians? Just one girl, she can barely raise her arm. (audience laughing) I'm over here. What? Oh honey, give me some corn. I'm not going to make it through the show. (audience laughing) I'm not a vegetarian and one time we were driving through the country, and he came up on literally 10 miles of cattle for slaughter. They're all jammed in these pens, not a blade of grass, they're all covered in yuck. My wife's like, &quot;That is so foul and disgusting. &quot;How can you look at that &quot;and still want to eat meat?&quot; I was like, oh my gosh, honey. I was just thinking to myself, how long would it take me to eat all these freaking cows? (audience laughing) If I just had a grill and a chainsaw, how many days? (audience laughing) Three days, that's the answer to that riddle, my friend. We've been married long enough, our wedding presents are starting to wear out. That's good. You get weird stuff when you get married, don't you? I don't know, we got this one thing. It's like a wood base with a wood arm that comes up and down. There's a brass hook on the end. You hang bananas on it. (audience laughing) It's called a banana hanger. Thank goodness we got that, because I'll tell ya, putting the bananas on the kitchen counter was just a pain in the bum. For years, I'm thinking there has to be a better way to store my ever-loving bananas. If only I had a device that could simulate the banana in its natural environment. (audience laughing) Now we're trapped into buying bananas for the rest of our lives. I'm at the supermarket with my wife, I'm like, hey, we better get some bananas for the thing. (audience laughing) Don't want people coming over and looking all confused looking at an old banana banana hangy doohickey. &quot;Dan, what's this, a key holder?&quot; What? No, it's a banana hanger. Get your filthy keys off my fruit swing. (audience cheers) (audience applauding) That's silly, who's got a banana hanger out here, anybody? Oh sir, how sad. Do you use it? Do you enjoy a good banana, friend? What do you do when you have one banana left? That's my riddle. Shove it into the hook, that's what I've been doing. Just oh yeah. That'll be delicious in the morning. I won't be able to sleep thinking about that brown crud on my Cheerios tomorrow. (audience laughing) That wasn't even our worst gift. One of my aunts sent us a spoon. It's pretty awesome. It was like five feet long, was made of wood. Have you seen these? I guess they're for decoration? I thought it was an oar, I was psyched. I'm waiting for the canoe, I'm practicing on the sofa. Then you got to write thank you cards for this. How do you that for a gift like this without sounding sarcastic? Yeah, dear Aunt Gladys, thanks for the giant spoon. Boy will that come in handy when I'm really freaking hungry. (audience laughing) When I can't get the food in my mouth quick enough, I'll reach for your ginormous spoon. Thanks. Do you have a receipt? (audience laughing) Some people live together before we get married, I don't know. My wife, we did not and looking back, I think maybe we should have, because when you go in cold, you find out stuff that was hidden from you while you were married. My wife's pretty messy. Breathtakingly messy. I'm like, look, this isn't a big deal. We'll get a maid, all right? We'll just get a maid. That's a good compromise. She goes, &quot;No, I don't want a maid. &quot;I don't want a stranger in my house.&quot; I go, that's funny, because sometimes when I come home it looks like there's been several strangers in the house. (audience laughing) Looking for microfilm or something. (audience laughing) From this, we were married like two weeks. She comes in, I'm watching TV. She comes in, she goes, &quot;Hey, &quot;did you drink the juice that &quot;was in the refrigerator?&quot; I'm like, yeah, why? She goes, &quot;Oh, I kind &quot;of bought that for me.&quot; (audience laughing) What are we, dorm mates all of a sudden? Maybe we should just write our names on things that we buy. That sounds like a great idea. I'll write my name on things that I bought, like the house and the freaking refrigerator (audience laughing) and you can write your names on things that you've bought, like juice and tampons. (audience laughing) I didn't really say that, I thought about it. (audience laughing) She would have punched me in the throat and not saying what you're thinking, that's the key to a happy marriage right there everybody. (audience laughing) I like being married. Just found out my wife's pregnant, everybody. We're super psyched. (audience cheers) Thank you, you know it. I did it. I'm a closer. (audience laughing) We had the first ultrasound. A little bit further along than we thought, she was eight and a half months. Holy Pete. We . . . we misread those signs. Every morning she's puking. I'm like honey, lay off the hooch. (audience laughing) Thank you, sir. (audience laughing) We have a three-year-old boy, and I'm telling you, that's as close as you're going to get to owning a monkey, isn't it? Runs around, screams in your face. Throws his poop at you when your back's turned. He is awesome. We are really, really enjoying him. (audience laughing) We have a five-year-old boy on top of that. Yeah, we're busy. She's busy, I'm in Provo, Utah. (audience cheers) She's good, I'm nine years older than her, actually, so she's good. I'll be 60, I'll be like 64 when this kid graduates high school. I know what I'm doing. I'm having my own grandchildren, that's what I'm doing. (audience laughing) &quot;Mommy, who's that little man &quot;on the couch?&quot; That's your father, don't touch him. (audience laughing) Leave his machine alone. (audience laughing) So I'm trying to get into shape. It's hard once you hit 40. Oh boy, right buddy? I don't want to age you or anything. (audience laughing) Remember in college you could do whatever you wanted, and there was no consequences? I remember one night in college, I came home late. I ate an entire brick of Velveeta cheese. (audience laughing) Just really seemed like the right thing to do (audience laughing) and then in the morning I weighed less than I did the day before. (audience laughing) I thought I had stumbled upon a miracle Velveeta cheese diet, (audience laughing) so I started running, any runners in the audience? We got some runners? I like to run, I entered the LA marathon last year. Thank you. First one. I have 18 miles to go. Oh, that's, I'm going to finish, I'm no quitter, buddy. I made the mistake of doing the race with my wife. She ran the 400 in college. She did the marathon three hours, 16 minutes. Is that nuts? The gun went off, she freaking disappeared on me. I was like, hey, thought we were doing this together. She goes, &quot;It's a race, Nancy.&quot; (audience laughing) She literally went home, changed her clothes, and came back and picked me up in the car. (audience laughing) She's like, &quot;Get in, &quot;they're reopening the roads.&quot; (audience laughing) She qualified for the Boston marathon. That's a big deal. Oh, you know what happened? She got pregnant. Whap whap. That's what happens when you beat me in something, you have my baby. (audience laughing) It would be wise to let me win. (audience laughing) I did okay, four hours. That's not bad, is it? I'm getting up there. Oh, halfway through I had to go to the bathroom something fierce and this guy running next to me, he's like one of those bigshot runners. Weighs like nine pounds, runs in his socks. He goes to me, he goes &quot;You know, true marathoners &quot;relieve themselves &quot;as they're running.&quot; I'm like, yeah, I don't possess that level of dedication and could you please run behind me? (audience laughing) So I was freaking out one night about how old I'm going to be with this new baby. I got life insurance, that's important, right? I got got a million dollar policy, nothing to see. I surprised my wife. I go, honey, heaven forbid anything happen to me, you get a million dollars. She goes, &quot;That is so thoughtful and sweet.&quot; Two weeks later, she comes up to me in this sexy nighty and she's like, I want to do something for you now. I'm like ooh, what? She goes, I want you to go ahead and get that motorcycle you've always wanted. (audience laughing) I don't remember wanting a motorcycle. &quot;Well you're getting one. &quot;And we're going to &quot;start smoking tomorrow.&quot; (audience laughing) It's a good job. I went to college for this, believe it or not. Thank you. (audience laughing) I went to the Ohio State University. (audience cheers) It's like it's just the three of us. I love college football. You guys like college football like I do? I love it. I tell you the big game for me, a few years back, we played Notre Dame at the Fiesta bowl. That was huge. My father went there, all my brothers went. By the time I was 18, you get so sick of hearing about it. I was like, dad, I ain't going to Notre Dame. He's like, &quot;Yeah, &quot;you're not kidding, Mr. 1.9.&quot; (audience laughing) That decision has been made for you, dummy. They don't even want you going to church anymore. It's such big business now, isn't it? This college football, is it too much? All these millions of dollars. I don't know. You'd never see Ohio State play Harvard, will ya? That's silly. Harvard, you got the school football game might break out some weekend. Ohio State you got football, somebody might take a class every now and then. If they replayed the play by play, it'd be something like and Harvard's quarterback is dropped behind the line again for loss of 40. Harvard's man there, of course, is Chad Elmhurst the Third. Chad is an academic all-American at Harvard, majored in physics with a minor in mathematics and they tell me he's actually going to be graduating a year early. Well, he's not going anywhere right now because he was flattened by big moose McCauley. (audience laughing) Moose is a sixth year red shirt freshman. (audience laughing) Majored in scuba diving, he drives a Lexus. I don't know how he affords that with his summer landscaping job. (audience laughing) College is no guarantee of anything though, is it? You can get out. I was bad at those job interviews. That's why I'm doing this. I'm unhireable. I was bad at the interview. Anybody have a job interview recently? Maybe? Did you get it? - [Woman] Yeah. - Oh, good. Well, if you have one, you can learn from my mistakes. It's always a good idea to bring an extra copy of your resume along for yourself to peek at during the big interview, because if you're like me, it's hard to remember all the amazing things you've done in your life. So one time the guy's like, &quot;Dan, &quot;it says here in high school &quot;you were a national &quot;spelling bee champion?&quot; Okay. Woohoo, I'm the man. M-A-N. (audience laughing) Nailed it. (audience laughing) Then he starts firing the questions at me, like Dan, what's your biggest weakness? Well, of course I told them my biggest weakness was sometimes I just pushed myself too dang hard. I'm an eager beaver. B-E-E-V. (audience laughing) E-R, beaver. (audience laughing) Are you going to tell them the truth about yourself? Oh, biggest weakness? Woo, punctuality. Sweet Pete, that's a biggie. I just can't seem to get my butt out of bed in the morning. I hit the snooze, some days I dream I get up. That is number one. Motivation, close second. Jot that down, tiger. I'm surprised I'm here. It's early, I'm freaking tired. You gotta be exhausted. You were here when I walked in. (audience laughing) Then he goes, &quot;Dan, where do you &quot;see yourself in five years?&quot; Well sir, God willing I'll be laid up at home with some work-related injury. (audience laughing) Living up to worker's comp. (audience laughing) I like doing stand up, it's a good job. First job I ever had, I was your age, fella. 16, 17. I worked for my neighbor who owned a funeral parlor. That was a mistake. My job there? I had to pick up the people at the nursing home. The dead people. They hated me down there, the live ones. They hazed me every time I walked in that place. Jell-O hit me in the face. Bingo chips wizzing by my noggin. Some 9,000 year old guy by the fish tank going, &quot;Hey, look, it's the angel of death.&quot; (audience laughing) Yeah. Hey look, you're on the list. Wrap it up, Moses. (audience laughing) You anger me, get your butt in the van. (audience laughing) You guys have been fun. I have a sister that lives in Detroit, Michigan. We're trying to raise money to get her out. (audience laughing) She had a baby boy a few months back. You know how big her baby was? 11 pounds, five inches, so we're very excited. (audience laughing) We've never had a doorstop in the family. No, 11 pounds, 22 and a half inches. That's a big baby. That's her second boy that size in three years. Yeah, well my sister is six five. Yeah, she's a yeti, a bigfoot. If you go to my website I have some grainy film footage of her walking by a creek. (audience laughing) My brother-in-law's six eight. They got these jumbo kids. I kind of get the feeling if I go to their house for dinner, I'll be the one eating at the card table. (audience laughing) Actually I was there for Thanksgiving. She made that homemade cranberry sauce. I like the homemade cranberries. It's like cranberry gojo, a little eyebally cranberry sludge, I don't eat that. I don't eat cranberry sauce that's left in the shape of the can it came in. Nice even slices, just like the Pilgrims had, (audience laughing) so I was working in Detroit a couple months ago and my brother-in-law's on a business trip. My sister wasn't feeling good. I'm a good brother, I helped out. I babysat the four-year-old for the day, and he was good all day until it was time to go to bed. They throw the fuss. I try to make it sound exciting. I'm like, hey buddy, 9:00. Time for night night, buckaroo. He goes, &quot;Oh no, &quot;you don't seem to understand. &quot;I don't go to bed till I watch a movie. &quot;You got that?&quot; That's his routine, he's spoiled. My sister has the entire Disney movie library on DVDs, so he threw this tantrum and finally I was like, holy heavens. Settle down, we'll watch a movie, so we ended up watching Bambi. Big mistake, new one for him. I hadn't seen it since I was little. Then we get to the point-- you know what happens? Bambi's mommy gets whacked in the movie. I hope I didn't ruin it for you, sir. She dies in the film. Delicate, scary, traumatic. My nephew's watching this for the first time. His body's trembling, tears coming down. I know! He goes, &quot;Uncle Dan, why? (audience laughing) &quot;Why did Bambi's mommy die?&quot; I'm like, well Matt, honey, Bambi's mommy died because Bambi didn't go to bed when he was supposed to. Does that sound like someone we might know? It worked, he's still in bed. That's it for me, thank you very much everybody! (audience cheers)