If you know these 15 idioms, Welcome back to JForrest English. Of course. I'm Jennifer. Now let's get started. You're going to learn these idioms as a quiz. You'll see a sentence on the screen with a blank, and you need to complete After you'll learn the correct idiom, you'll review an example sentence and and Are you ready? Question one. At the beginning of our meeting, we To break the ice To break the ice. This is an idiom that means to to overcome initial awkwardness or tension For example, you can share your favorite Now remember that idioms are words in a Because they're in a fixed order. You cannot say we broke ice that isn't correct. You can't say we broke an ice that isn't correct, You must say we broke the ice. And of course, here your verb to Simple. Don't worry about taking notes because I You can find the link in the description. It was just. Break the ice and and now Yeah. I shake some hands. I break the ice and make small I take a genuine interest in the people. Question 2. Great job with the presentation Out of the park to knock This is a fun idiom. It means to do something exceptionally well. So you can use this to compliment someone. For example, the team knocked it out of the Now notice how I used it before which was the innovative product launch. You can do it the other way and say The something the team knocked the The team did exceptionally well. So hopefully you're thinking Jennifer knocked it out of the park. Of course, the IT is this lesson. So do you agree? Am I or did I knock it out of the park? If you agree, but that's right, that's Whatever it is, you knock it out of the park Traditional public schools knock My guess is they'll continue to thrive. The ones that are good. Very rarely is your first movie Question three I was offered my I have to move to another I'm between a rock and A and a hard place. Did you get this one to be This means to be faced with two He's between a rock and a hard place, having to choose between a So notice how I use the idiom first, and then I identified the two You could also say I'm between If I tell the truth, it could hurt my friend. So the other option is implied. You tell the truth or you don't tell the truth. They were caught between a rock and a high. Place and they. Ended up choosing the high place, And to find that officers sometimes make mistakes. I think it's understandable. It's to be expected. They're between a rock and a Question 4. The party is on Saturday, but it's a surprise. Don't spill the Don't spill the beans. To spill the beans. This means to reveal a secret or So for example, I accidentally spilled I accidentally spilled the I didn't know it was a secret. Or you could reassure someone You know I won't spill the beans. I won't reveal your secret. And he would try to get kids to You know, like, my mother's pregnant. My daddy doesn't know. The authorities thought if he was but there weren't any beans to spill. If you don't spill the beans now. We're going to. Finish this talk down at the station. Question five. You don't have to work I was just pulling your. I was just pulling your leg to pull one's leg. Your leg. This means to tease or joke For example, to joke with your coworker. You could say the boss wants us to the boxes in the storage room and say seriously that will take hours And then your Co worker can You're teasing your Co worker. Enjoy the show. I was just pulling your leg. Pressed his nose up against mine, gave me this I was. Just. I was just. Pulling your leg I I pull. Stuff up all the time. Question 6 I got Taylor Swift tickets. I'm cloud 9. I am on cloud 9 because this expression is to be He's been on cloud 9 since he got engaged. Remember to conjugate that verb to be. The team was on cloud 9 after I'm in cloud 9. Yes. And then guess what? Does it last? Yeah, I think that honestly, I I'm still kind As you can imagine, I was pretty much on cloud 9. Then question 7. The client didn't like the Start from scratch To start from scratch. This means to start from the very For example, my computer crashed and now I have to start from scratch because Or you could say I started learning English From the very beginning. Hello, how are you? The very beginning. So I guess you're going to So they had to start from scratch. McMillan most recently had to start from scratch. Question 8 As the project manager, Jane Jane calls the shots. A great position to be in. To call the shots means to be in control. This is my house. I call the shots. Or if someone is new to a team, they Who is in control? Well, then you're destined to have the Instead, pharmaceutical companies call the shots. The FDA effectively allows them If I get the chance to call the shot, Question Nine. Since this is the first time you I'll let you off the hook This is a relief because it means punishment or a difficult situation. So you are not going to punish the person I can work late tonight and finish the proposal. You're off the hook. You're relieved of that responsibility. Or perhaps if I let you off the hook, God. I don't want to let him off the hook. That means that may be hard to swallow, It's not my fault. The way I feel now, sales does not How are you doing so far? Question 10. The flight was delayed because of the weather. There's no use crying over. Spilled milk To cry over spilled milk. This means to be upset about something For example, the client fired us Let's not cry over spilled milk. Let's make sure this never happens again. Or you could say the client Instead of crying over spilled milk, getting upset over something we can't change, Because it's too late to cry over spilled milk. So I can cry over spilled milk or I can do what I need to do and I'm going It's like the old saying, It's a little thing. Question 11 I finally the I finally bit the bullet. Did you get the correct verb conjugation? The idiom is to bite the bullet means to do something unpleasant I must do my taxes, for example. I hate filing paperwork, but I'll I have to do it anyway or the garage is a mess. Let's bite the bullet and So I thought, you know, bite the Wish they would have the courage And tell us. The truth? I'm just going to bite the bullet and reshape the Question 12. We're going to hot water when the boss We're going to be in hot water, which forgetting his anniversary, John found The company violated safety The captain of Flesh says you're in hot water. Now look, she made. Sure, both he. And his tech ended. Up in hot water. His company, Tesla, has already Question 13 Stop beating around Stop beating around the Bush. This means to avoid the main issue or topic. So it means to speak indirectly, and we usually But you might tell your friend when you ask your Ask your boss directly. Be direct. Or you could say after beating talking indirectly about the main Which means he asked me on a romantic date. If you beat around the Bush with people, I say no, no, I need to. I need. I really need your help. Big help. Let's not. Beat around the Bush. You know, you've thought about it, There's no need to beat around the Bush here. Your preview just needs to tell your reader Question 14. Everyone in California on the bandwagon and The idiom is to jump on the support or start doing something For example, I jumped on the bandwagon and learned This sounds like I learned how to make it You could also say many companies have So notice here I'm using an adjective they know the topic of popularity Of one. Film or genre inspires others to. Jump on the bandwagon, we're. Kind of hoping to. Jump on the the bandwagon that Not a good time to jump on the bandwagon. Question 15. Influencers are all a dozen these days, It can also mean inexpensive or easy to find. Now keep in mind this sounds negative because it For example, nowadays pickleball They're very easy to find. Everyone is a pickleball teacher because the pickleball bandwagon, or you could In this competition, everyone is a talented You need to do something more Investors know that ideas are a dime a dozen. But execution. Is what really matters. Cocktail consultants are a dime a dozen, and Really. A bar. Manager necessarily doing that. So how many of these idioms did you know? And even if you knew zero, you That's awesome. So put, let's go, let's go, put, but let's go. If you want me to make And of course, make sure you like this lesson, share it with your friends and subscribe so And you can get this free speaking to speak English fluently and confidently. You can click here to download it or And let's see if you know these 15 words. Watch it right now.