Transcriber: Morgane Quilfen I'm six years old, and all I can think about I need five more dollars. Luckily for me, it's Easter, and I know that my dad always hides I also know the best egg This year, I'm ready! Before long, I spot it, right in the middle You know, the one that runs I scramble to get the ladder and duct tape it to a broom handle. I fish it into the pipe, It flies out the other side, and by the time it hits the ground, I'm waiting above it The egg cracks open and inside ... is the very opposite of my grand prize. Instead, a perfectly formed (Laughter) I burst into loud hysterics. At the same time, (Laughter) I run as fast as I can to my room, but he's not far behind. It's time for one of his talks. &quot;Honey, it was clear that you already learned the harder you work, So it was time that you learned sometimes, no matter how hard you work, you just end up with shit!&quot; (Laughter) And who better to teach just this sort of hard-hitting, to six-year-old me than my father? I'm a divorce attorney. I've been practicing for over 20 years. I began in Los Angeles, but I've owned my firm My firm has a particular sub-specialty: men's rights. My nine female employees and I specifically represent men And guess who runs My father. (Laughter) In my practice, we've represented over 2,000 men, 650 of whom are fathers. My expertise not only comes from my career but just as much from my personal life. I'm a mother. My children are 23, 15, 12, and barely 3. They come from two different mothers Hooker! Let me explain. (Laughter) Let me explain. I helped my ex-husband whom I didn't birth, from age 5. I share custody of my 15-year-old daughter My 12-year-old son when he was just 7. And my 3-year-old with his father and me. I literally live my work every day! (Laughter) So, what has 20 years while living my own reality show taught me about fatherhood? Allow me, if you will, to start with the second thing men parent differently than women. Big surprise! But their influence is crucial Do you know any mom in the world (Laughter) Okay, maybe that's a good thing. Let me better demonstrate this point When getting my father clients I prepare them for this kind &quot;Who's your children's doctor or dentist?&quot; &quot;What's the name of your school principal &quot;What grades did they get Nine times out of ten, Seriously. Does this mean they don't care I bet it makes you wonder. But please, hold your judgement. Here are the questions &quot;If your son could be a superhero, &quot;What kind of monsters do your kids fear?&quot; &quot;How high does your daughter &quot;What makes your son feel defeated?&quot; Yet, in my experience cross-examining these are the harder questions for them. Most of us know, motherhood and an unspoken bond to our children. But what about fathers? Even fathers feel insecure After representing 650 fathers, I can count on one hand in their instinctive role What's interesting is my anecdotal In 20 years of practice, I've had like Jerry Springer. Seriously. Do you know how many were wrong in predicting their biological Two. This shocked me fathers, too, have a genetic bond from infancy. Forget where you are for a moment, I'd like to ask you to feel. Think about your childhood. Picture your father, his smiling eyes, his strong hands. Hear his deep voice. What did you love about your dad? Did he throw you high into the air? Teach you to ride a bike? Carry you home when you got hurt? Push you when you tried to give up? What did it feel like to have a daddy? Secure? Fun? Challenging? Now, go back in your memories This is what the other 40 percent Just under half the people including my own 12-year-old son, felt sad, angry, or blank during the peak of your joy, Eye-opening, isn't it? Nearly two of every five are growing up without their fathers, or 17 million, Other sources estimate In 2011, I joined the board called Nevada Youth Empowerment Project, or NYEP. NYEP is a housing program As board president of this small charity, I've been closely involved and gotten to know the girls Hundreds of otherwise homeless girls Their backgrounds would haunt you. Do you know the one thing They all come from fatherless homes. Sadly, these girls aren't the exception; they're the rule. My fourth lesson about fatherhood According to the Center children from fatherless homes account for 90 percent 71 percent of high school dropouts, and 63 percent of youth suicides. While you listen to me speak, &quot;What makes fathers so crucial?&quot; Honestly, the answer is complex What I can tell you is that the data and yet laws and society making it harder for them Even fathers underrate their own value. I know this data upsets But advocating for fathers While children deserve both parents this crisis is specific to fathers. The occurrence of the effects are catastrophic, and the causes are male gender specific. Nearly 30 years ago, leading child psychologist &quot;Fathers are the forgotten contributors Yet, researchers have found have stronger cognitive and motor skills, elevated physical and mental health, become better problem solvers, and are more confident, Sadly, we've had this data for 30 years, and fatherlessness has only The main contributors to fatherlessness Every 13 seconds, That equates to almost Lucky me! (Laughter) Currently, more than 40 percent, are born out of wedlock And this brings me back that my career has taught me family court is one of the critical places and this hurts kids. Historically, this maternal preference was solidified which mandated custody of children This doctrine was in use until the 80's. As the laws progressed, but it took a lot of years In fact, it wasn't until 2017 that Nevada finally adopted When I began my practice, the best my father clients could expect and maybe a dinner on the off week. While significant this long-standing bias in the enforcement of custody orders, and it exists in paternity laws. All the while, the number of kids Between 1960 and 2016, the percentage of children nearly tripled, from 8 to 23 percent. Paternity laws to protect the 40 percent of children Right now, once custody has been ordered, it's illegal to remove a child usually a felony. But it's perfectly legal, for a woman to conceal her pregnancy, leave the father's name and never tell him he has a child, ever! How is this not kidnapping? Just as horrible, a woman can knowingly in a child's birth certificate, deceive him, and a short while later, in many states, the wrong man becomes He's obligated to a child that isn't his. And that child just lost their real father This is a betrayal of the worst kind. And the law not only allows it, This is what we know. Every bit of data we have tells us The law, its application, The law is improving, but the statistics are not. So, what can you do? We are the change makers, all of us. If you're a father, make the effort, do everything you can If you're a mother, encourage and facilitate the relationship instead of trying If you're a child, ask him to do something, If you're an employer, grant the fathers you employ the ability to be to help in their schools, to take sick days to care for their kids. If you work in the legal field, help us continue to progress, and ensure that they're enforced The importance of this pursuit The fate of nearly half I'd like to close by asking all of you Please, stand if you are able if you grew up without a father, if you raised or are raising or if you are a father Now, look around: the people really affected Really, look. Those of you standing You're real living and feeling humans. You're the children Now let me tell you who can't stand. The 1,000 fatherless children The 3,000 fatherless children The 3,200 fatherless children And the 14,000 fatherless children Everyone, please, stand for them! And do everything you can to help the remaining 17 million Thank you. (Applause and cheers)