Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Gravity is a property of matter, anything Jupiter, the Sun, and even you - your body. them stand 3/4 of a millimeter away from you. in your body and every atom in their body force that the Sun is exerting on you right now. Of course, we don't feel either of those forces of the Earth, they are basically nothing. attraction between you and someone you're Sun, 150 million kilometres away. What if the Sun disappeared? Well, to be sure, it's not going to happen. by expanding, boiling off our oceans The Sun is not going to simply disappear. matter can quantum tunnel to different locations, enough time in the lifetime of millions and to even be worth discussing. But let's discuss it anyway, as a thought get along with no Sun. At the exact moment that the Sun disappeared, from the Sun 8 minutes and 20 seconds to after the Sun disappeared, we would have no would, most likely, ensue. The Sun's gravitational grasp on our planet end. This is because gravity waves propagate we saw our Sun disappear, we would also lose fly out in a straight line, The finite speed of light and gravity mean at the loss of our Sun, we could still, for buddies, further out, continuing to operate For instance, Jupiter would continue orbiting existed for about 30 minutes after the Earth on where Jupiter was in its orbit, it would to watch the reflected light of Jupiter snuff out. With no moonlight or sunlight, the universe light from space. In 2004, Abdul Ahad calculated that the Milky of a full Moon. So there would be enough light of course, electricity and fossil fuels would towns could continue to be lit by manmade it would be night everywhere. Photosynthesis would stop immediately, and this video with Henry from MinutePhysics, not subscribed to MinuteEarth, you definitely should be. In one of his episodes there, he mentions Earth is done by photosynthesis, which requires longer be able to inhale carbon dioxide and But, don't worry. Collectively, all of us 6 trillion kilos of oxygen every year. kilos of oxygen. So, even without photosynthesis, insects, and microorganisms that consume oxygen, out. The poor plants themselves would be much die within days or weeks. Except for large enough sugar for energy that they could technically is going to be that the Earth will get quite death. Their blood, the water and sap inside Right now, with our Sun, the average surface places, and different seasons all considered, Celsius. Without the Sun to add energy, the Earth would it would go fast at first and then happen week without the Sun, the average surface Zero Celsius, 32 degrees Fahrenheit. on Earth, we're used to it. Panic and fear few days or months, we could get by. But by the end of the first year without would be -73 degrees Celsius, -100 Fahrenheit. The best option, really, would be to move These places would be the few safe havens on Earth exists because of, and is dependent the Earth produces its own heat. Despite floating down below the crust the Earth is quite warm. 20% of this warmth came from the fact that in the middle that the pressure liquified rock. comes from that fact that deep in its core, energy needed to keep the Earth's core at Anyone who failed to secure a position within underground in a community warmed and powered the first year of no Sun. In the next 10 or 20 years things would start water droplets. Instead, droplets of liquid air. for the gasses that make it up to condense, and then as it got colder and colder, In Fritz Leiber's famous science-fiction short The Earth was ripped away from the Sun, and, in a special suit and scoop up a pale of just it over a fire to warm and allow them to breathe. A year or so after the sun disappeared, Earth's way across. But ice is less dense than liquid is a pretty decent insulator. water could still exist at the bottom of our by miles of ice above it, and warmed by vents heated by Earth's interior. This would continue on Earth for a very, very frozen and lifeless, extremophiles, like microbes, the ocean, would be fine. They live deep in can penetrate, and they make energy not through heat and methane and sulphur into the energy tubeworms. Extremophiles deposit minerals back into the It's a circle. It's independent of the Sun. were to disappear. They would live just fine Or, honestly, without ever even knowing it It's amazing to think that life, here on Earth, would kind of be fine. Far from becoming a the Earth would be a spaceship, carrying living billions of years of life. If the Sun disappeared, spaceship Earth would 30 kilometres every single second. After just 1 billion kilometres or about 100,000 lightyears - a trip that our galaxy, near thousands of stars. thaw out, and allow its still-living extremophiles maybe one day developing life intelligent lives. In which case, hi, uh, you're welcome for this video about your planet's history and journey. And, um, as always, thanks for watching.