Hey everyone, Kevin here. Today I want to show OpenShot is free and open source. Oh, but hold lots of paid and also free video editors and The thing I like about it so much is that interface. This means that anyone can come and you can figure it out. But what's really functionality under the covers. So you can Regardless of your operating system, it'll work also Chrome OS. If you want to follow along today down below in the description. The best way some timestamps down below so you can jump to the All right, well, why don't we jump on the PC and To get the OpenShot video editor, open up your Once you land on the homepage, you should see of the page. You also have a download link On the download page, it should automatically I'm on Windows, and it also recommends a 64-bit looking for a different download, like I mentioned major platform. Here you see all of them down download and run through the install process. Once open up the application. Once you open it, you'll is your first time using OpenShot, you'll also the center of the screen. And when you click areas of the interface. Over here on the left-hand we're going to load up all of our video, audio, I'll click on next, and down below we have the our video and to lay things out in the order we also have the preview pane where we'll And finally, once we pull everything together, worry, we're going to run through all of this To get started, we want to import some files into files, and we want to get some video and audio files is to simply drag and drop them in. Here I of the sample files. Once again, if you want to files in the description of this video. I have I can just drag and drop them into project files, As an alternative to load files, I can also go up When I click on this, this opens up a file picker, them this way too. I could also right-click, even press the shortcut key Ctrl-F, and that'll of options to get your files into OpenShot. Now that you bring a lot of files in and you're trying Up above, I can very quickly filter all of Here if I click on Video, I'll only see the video audio files, and if I click on Image, it'll show files here, so you won't see anything. To show right over here, I have a search field, and in the project file set. So let's say I want to in Kevin, and there, very quickly, I see that to find the files that I'm looking for. With I can right-click on one of these files, This opens up a preview, and when I click on And that's got to hurt. Pulling the baking I don't know what I was thinking. I'll close this want to pick the pieces that I want to include Over here, I can right-click on one of the files, click on this. This opens up that same clip again. I have some additional controls at the bottom. set the end point. And here, I can use this to where I want it to start. For this specific clip, I want it to start right as the oven is opening. When I click on start, you see that it takes the visual indicator to let me know what the start and you see me reaching the oven, and I burn right there is when I want to stop the clip. So, Right here, I'll click on end, and here too, you and it inserts it in the end. Now, this is my click on create. This window stays open, and I can if I want. Here I could set another start point any number of ways that I want. However, for now, this window. Back in project files, one thing you additional clip. So here's my original one where I I have my new one. I could have renamed it as I This is now the new clip, which is shorter, I now want to take this video clip, and I want timeline, and once again, this is how I start down onto the timeline, I can simply click on it that there are a few different tracks that I can see all the different tracks. So there are five everything directly onto track one. So I'll scroll let me click on this and then drag it down, and I now have my first clip down below on the to save my project just so I don't lose anything. into this, so let me keep my progress. Right up on save project as. I'm going to save this as the typing in the file name, click on save. I now have might notice it's pretty small. It's only three If I want to zoom in a little bit, I can use this So here, if I drag it this way, this is going a longer video project, you can zoom out my video is going to be pretty short, and So instead of going that way, I'll zoom in over which indicates that it zooms in, and here you see So here I've zoomed in a little bit, and with simply zooming in and out using this bar Here, I could press the equals sign, and that'll now. I could also press the minus sign to zoom the equals sign to zoom in. And here I could use your keyboard to very quickly zoom in and I could press the control key on my keyboard, and or I could roll it forward to zoom in. So just I now have my first clip on the timeline, and I inserted this clip down below on the timeline, video preview, and this shows me what's currently is coming together, there are a few different ways and that'll play the video. I could also go up on the play icon, and that'll also start playing clicked on the play icon, you'll notice that this bar, you'll see this play head move along. It's my current position in the timeline, and it window. Now I can also navigate through my video the play head, and then I could scrub through my point in the video that I want to get to. I could on my keyboard, and this way I can move one frame keyboard, and I can move one frame to the left. your video. So far, I only have one clip on my just pulling cookies out of an oven. So I can get Right up here, next I want to show milk pouring and then I can simply drag and drop this down onto choose the exact position where I want to place drag it closer to the first clip, it automatically release right here, up here there's a control that take this clip, you'll see that it doesn't snap to little bit. However, I like leaving snapping and then I'll pull my clip so it sits right at and you'll notice that this clip of the milk I don't think anyone's going to want to watch milk trim the clip a little bit, just like we did with beginning. Another way that we could trim a clip, I can navigate towards the beginning, and it in right to the point that I want to keep. let's say halfway full, I'll position it right And then I could also select the end. I'll select end point of this clip. Now I don't want it enough time. I've now shortened this clip and on my timeline. And once again, I'll place we've been adding every single video file there's a track two, a three, a four, and a The way to think of tracks is they're basically lowest layer. So if I take another clip and Here if I go to the very beginning and I start because there's nothing on track two at now hits this video file that's on track two. And layer. And so this overlays whatever's on track files on track three, that would overlay what's on so I could add any number of tracks here. I could or it could even add another track below. Here I a little bit more organized. If I don't want a remove excess tracks. Now I don't need this project. So I could right click here and I could view just a little bit. I only need two tracks for I also don't want this on track two. So I could track one and then position it right here. I'll click here and let me go to rename track and Right down below, just to help me organize things, video. Next, I'll click on okay. So far I've the timeline simply by clicking on it and then However, I do want to show another way that you First I'm going to position my play head at let me click on to file number four. Here I'll the option to add to timeline. Here too you'll This opens up a prompt where I can add this clip and this currently matches where my play head to. Do I want to add it to the audio track I'll add it to video. I could also choose the Also, I could set the fade, the zoom, and the Let's say that you're pulling together maybe let's say 50 or maybe 100 images. You could bulk could choose a fade to use. You could choose And what's really neat is right up here at You could also choose a random zoom. So especially little bit more variability to the show. Now with add to timeline prompt won't be as useful for me. I did want to show how this is yet another way I'll click on okay and there you see that I just a gap between these files, so I'll drag that and clip. With these new clips on the timeline you'll to the first two and that's because I haven't filling up the milk glass and right here it's to the next clip well here it's filling up from from where this other clip left off. So here I'll right about here. So we looked at one way where basically trim my clip but I want to show you a Right up here we have all of these different called the razor tool. I could click on that you see this straight line appear basically the When I click there, it splits the clips right for now and now you see that I have two separate now I could work with these files separately. could hit the delete key and that's now removed from here. As an alternative to going over to the right click on the file. Within this menu, I have I have a few different options. I could keep both keep both sides you'll notice this does the same the same thing but I can access that through a so my clip is just one clip again. This is one here through the menu. Now instead of clicking and instead of navigating over to the razor tool, I press control K, that does the exact same thing. use to make my editing even simpler. Once again, When we right clicked on the clip, you other options and let me go back and go to slice. let's see what these do. If I click on keep right everything to the left of the play head gets wiped me go on just a little bit farther to maybe this to the right side and I want to keep everything to slice and for this one I want to keep everything that removes everything over there and here now my this is yet one more way that I can edit clips. to do a cut in the middle, the other two options also have shortcut keys, and for that let's go this is where you see my hand appear and I start start maybe right there right before the hand everything to the right and I want to remove right click, I could go to this menu, and I could keyboard and for this I'm going to press control the right and it removes everything to the left you see my hand come in and a whole bunch of these but maybe we just need about that many. Right here want to remove everything to the right, so for rid of everything to the right. Now you might be control L, it's all these random keys how am I things really simple actually look at your physically located. Control K, K is right in the so I'm going to undo that just to return the and when you press J, it keeps everything to the which is right next to K that keeps everything and if you look at just the physical location it do. K's in the middle so does the middle When you're editing videos, shortcut keys can make a lot of clips you need to edit but you might be I don't like pressing control K, I'd rather press Can I configure those? And you absolutely can. If down here there's the option for preferences. of these different tabs and all the way over for keyboard. When we click on this, here you can keys are for OpenShot and here are the shortcut the control L, and control J, and you could It also has some of the other shortcut keys that for zooming in and out. So, you could take a look speed up your editing time. All of these defaults I've now trimmed both of these clips to the exact left and I could simply drag and drop the file and here I'll drag the next file and I'll pull every clip so it just sits on the end. What if I and I'll drop it so it sits over the third clip appear. What is that? If I go back here, I'll the timeline and then I'll play it. You'll notice it over another clip it'll automatically apply a automatically creates a fade transition but let's click on the fade right here and I could press Now if I play it, right from here, you'll notice up here I can click on transitions and here I have choose from. Let's say for instance that I want to click on this one and then I'll drag it down these clips. Here you'll see that the transition do with one of the clips, I can click on the end overlapping portion of these clips. I'll place it see what this looks like. Here you'll notice that so it's pretty easy to choose whatever switch between your clips in a seamless way. If I clip where you see the milk pouring in the glass. If I go to the previous one, this isn't quite as don't really seem like it's from the same shot. We started with project files, then we clicked too we see a quick description of what we could all of the different effects that we can choose little bit on this clip, it'll better match the brightness and contrast. Let me pull that down and I now dropped the effect, but it doesn't Here though I see that it inserted this B icon for can go into properties. This opens up a prompt. different brightness properties that I can adjust. Right now, the brightness is set to zero; however, brightness of 0.09. That looks a lot more vibrant. the next clip in the timeline, so that looks quickly apply different effects to your different to add the remaining clips. I've added four clips the way through 12 clips. I'm going to add all of You could practice some of the different trimming could go to split clip to try cutting it here practice dragging and dropping the edges to reduce could practice some of the shortcut keys like the just right click, go to slice and you could test so it starts feeling more like a habit. I've now down below and I went through and I trimmed them able to do the same. Now so far you'll notice no music to go along with it, so I want to add an see both tracks side by side. I'll go up to the we just see the audio files and here I see some my timeline. Now that I've added the audio to the One thing you might have noticed is the music moment before it plays but it's hard to tell when see a thumbnail of this clip on the timeline. I the option for display and currently it's set to waveform and this changes it from the thumbnail music plays in relation to the video clips down doesn't actually start until a little bit in, so start right at the beginning. So here I'll click clip I'll cut it right about there. I'll turn and I'll pull it to the beginning here. Now when at the beginning. With my music, it's a little bit little bit lower. Here I can right click on this volume. Here I can reset the volume but I want it and for the entire clip let me go at maybe 80% of sound a little bit better. One thing you'll see longer than my video goes on for. So I'm going to to cut off the music at this point. Now just like also edit the audio file the exact same way. I'll everything to the right and it'll keep everything video end at the same time. When I play the clip music just cuts off. It's a very harsh end and I'd on the audio and let me go back up to volume. Here of the clip and another one for the end of the set it to fade out. So maybe I want to do a fast select this option and it added some keyframes of the music. So let's hear what that sounds That sounds a lot better now, it's this gradual I also want to do something to make the Here you see Cookie Monster appear and then the I think maybe I can make that a little bit little bit and to do this I want to use something bit daunting but they're actually easier to use First I want to go back to right when the logo start zooming in at this point. So this is where another keyframe at the end which So right down here I'll go down to my clip. and then I'll right click and let's click on the left-hand side and it might look a little related to the file. Now all of these different Here for example, I have the alpha and here if I and here, I could fade it in. Now I want to have scale X and scale Y that will allow me to zoom in just be one. This is going to be the start I'll right click and let me go to insert keyframe And now they're both highlighted in green, If I move my play head, you'll see that there's that I've inserted a keyframe. What a I could define what the properties are. So at Now at the very end of my clip, once again, I want me go right about there, and here too I'm going let me go to maybe 1.25. So there you see that it these with a proper ratio. So here too I'll enter bit zoomed in. Now if you look down below, I now is at this point in time we're going to kick off this is where I want it to zoom in. So there it these two points and I define the value at this then OpenShot says okay, well, between these two up to 1.25 at this keyframe. And so here as I number is adjusting over here. So, take a look at in a linear fashion. I could also come over here from linear to maybe ease in or ease out. So what in maybe it starts a little bit slower and then out maybe it starts a little faster and then it you want. Here you could even do a combination of and then slows down again at the end. So, these With keyframes you can apply them to any of the powerful in getting different desired effects on hopefully you're starting to realize how much things too is as I've been working through this to move it somewhere else. I can come up here and let's say you have maybe multiple monitors. You place it somewhere. Here I can close it again want to close my project files because maybe want the video preview and the timeline. You could want. Let's say you want to go back to maybe the and I could click on views and I could switch back There's also something called the advanced I also see the effects. Here I'll go back to the real estate. Once you configure your view in click on views and here you could freeze your you have a few different options. Also, let's switch into full screen mode by clicking on F11. on your editing. Okay so we have pulled together a different effects. We're now ready to ship this up on the top bar there's this red icon and this This opens up the export video prompt and right where I want to save it, and down below, I can I see all formats but if you want to simplify, you of the profiles. Let's say maybe you're getting click on web and right down here you can choose and here I see some video profiles that I can 1920 by 1080, and 29.97 frames per second, but can choose from. Just choose the one that's most down here for quality, I'll choose high and once the video's encoding, you might be wondering well of it comes down to what was the original source a video you want it in the best possible quality. use in this project. Here you could click on one Within properties you can click on details and video clip. Here my clip was 1920 by 1080 pixels, these clips. So that's the reason I chose these source clips and I wanted to maintain the best I'm at 100% and my video is now complete. Let's All right, well, that was a quick OpenShot. If you enjoyed this video, please give please consider subscribing. Also, if you want leave a comment down below. All right, I hope you enjoyed, and as always,