Hey Dr Bernard here. This throat numbing spray telling you how to take it, and there's happen if you take too much. Like this. That's A Man Swallowed 1 Bottle Of Throat Numbing Spray While Eating Spicy Food. This RJ is a 21 year old man, presenting to the and cyanosis. His face, especially A few hours earlier, RJ was eating his roommates had recently started working little contest amongst friends to see RJ was someone who just couldn't be topped. He with everyone and he had to show everyone up. He came across throat numbing spray, usually used to the store, found a bottle, tried one spray in and he determined-- it was time for him Later that week, on The Day Of The Spice, the friends were ready to have some delicious out quick because they didnt like spicy and enjoy what they ate. But everyone else RJ hid the throat numbing spray underneath his there while everyone else was eating. At first, mouth when really, he was pumping that spray. The the friends were having trouble handling it, but admit that this was spicier than he could handle. anything, and the bottle was kinda tall under the to suspect that the others were catching on to spray so he could take a couple of swigs. But and some it started dripping down his chin. In an he was adding a little help on the side to handle RJ felt like his tongue was too big for his mouth. then he felt like his head was pounding. He could coming out of his nose felt warmer than normal. but they just didnt know what. He called RJ out everyone noticed that RJ was blue in in the hiding was blue and he some of it was dripping knew what he was doing, RJ got up and quickly his field of vision turned dark. In the sounds in his ears couldn't make any sense to of throat numbing spray on RJ's seat and they found it hilarious. But when they looked seek immediate medical attention if blue colored when RJ wouldn't come out of the bathroom, they color. He was laying down on the floor, as they Immediately, medical staff notice RJ's to the blue-green color and -osis meaning abnormal a bluish green color, indicating that there's give him supplemental oxygen in order to remedy into his mouth is the same cyan color that his on to the skin of his face. It's possible that and that nothing at all is wrong with RJ meaning But as the time passes, it becomes clear that that definitely something wrong. The oxygen doesn't he's starting to become unresponsive, meaning that presented to the emergency room, they had put check oxygen saturation in his blood, that is the protein in red blood cells that's supposed to pulse oximeter shines a light on one end, received on the opposite end to determine that cells. If they've been giving him oxygen, is saying that his hemoglobin isn't carrying brain is shutting down because it's not getting The medical team draws some blood from RJ's of oxygen are in his blood. This should make into his lungs, and put into the blood that's then flows back to the heart where it's pumped which is where the medical team drew his WHY is the pulse oximeter saying low? And more importantly, why is Red blood cells are supposed to carry oxygen. which contains iron, and that's what carries medical team collected from RJ shows that he but the pulse oximeter is showing there isn't then it means that oxygen is in the blood, but on to that oxygen. And if iron in hemoglobin is then this is where RJ's problem is. This case referring to between, or a kind of and characteristic of the original but being hemoglobin being the protein that holds on blood. An altered hemoglobin presence The active ingredient in the spray that RJ used is a local anesthetic, meaning that it's a medicine applied. The nerves rely on sending electrical but benzocaine generally dampens that electrical This happens at regular doses, which for that's spit out after leaving it in the mouth amount that RJ took and put inside his the chemical structure of benzocaine We're familiar with metallic iron. When metals they're not in their solid meaning that they are electrically is that it can have different electrical charges. Electrical charges on elements are because of If there's more electrons than normal, then that normal, then that ion is positive. Normal is which are positively charged, so when the number the atom isn't charged at all. Nature has a to less energy. Electrons on atoms are laid out more energy it has, and that means it can become to release that energy and react with something to is because of exactly how many protons it has, The layout of the periodic table levels of every single element. Each of the and members of each group tend to exhibit some row denotes an incremental increase in protons, as you count up. Iron is the first of its group, Metals. As we count upwards on Iron's energy and iron can be stable, because removing those giving some stability to the ion. The interesting responsible for carrying oxygen and delivering it bind oxygen is because it still has some degree 2+ tells us that further stability can be because at the remaining highest energy level, the as is the case for Iron 2+, provides some When rust forms, it's iron coming into contact from the metal and forms hydrated Iron 3 oxide. its presence means that that hemoglobin while regular hemoglobin is holding on plus oxygen, and becomes Iron 2 again when it circulates around in RJ's body, none of his cant transport it in, as they start to shut down. unconscious and it starts to shut down. But RJ sprayed too much, when he was still only meaning that lots of blood is flowing absorbing into his blood here, and he he accidentally dumped the bottle in his spray then went into his stomach, absorbed where it was metabolized, or broken down, One goal of liver metabolism is to make the dissolve in water, so it can concentrate in the called making the chemical more hydrophilic. Hydro Water is made of oxygen and hydrogen, so adding hydrophilicity, but, for benzocaine, doing this We already established that electrons play a is metabolized, one of the resulting chemicals hydroxyl amine. The electrons in this molecule among the structure, a little different from Phenyl hydroxyl amine is hydrophilic, but it isn't rid of to establish stability, therefore making oxygen, so Phenyl hydroxyl amine gives its extra while that receiving oxygen becomes superoxide, reactive meaning it isn't stable, so the body but that creates hydrogen peroxide, which is an unstable chemical that takes electrons to become stable. And if hydrogen peroxide is in the blood, an easy target to take electrons from, is Iron 2+ in hemoglobin. This brings us to an idea called equilibrium. produced by the metabolism of benzocaine, is also body to become phenyl hydroxyl amine again. endlessly cycling between one another, shuffling of superoxide, and exerting heavy oxidant turning significant parts of RJ's hemoglobin any oxygen throughout the body, despite the This mechanism of oxidant attack in the blood when they are put in to the body, all and can cause all the organs to In the hospital, the medical team already not have known that benzocaine was the cause were all there. RJ's blue face and lips and on pulse oximetry when supplemental oxygen during the blood test, and the chocolate not being a bright red like normal. extracted from the iron in his blood, how This brings us back to equilibrium. Methemoglobin bodies can easily add the extra electron to Iron a lot of methemoglobin. But when an endless ingestion of benzocaine keeps creating stress, overwhelmed. However, there's another approach help carry the electrons around. And ironically, will replace the electrons in the iron in The medical team noted RJ's methemoglobinemia, the bottle of benzocaine throat numbing spray has a clear warning on the back to not misuse to start methylene blue, when they gathered the an improvement was found in RJ's cyanosis. the hospital, because while methylene blue severe his methemoglobinemia was, it isn't that just one dose of methylene Misusing throat numbing spray isn't new. doing it. Not all throat numbing sprays active ingredients that aren't benzocaine, although they could cause other problems when misused. and that has the same methemoglobinemia warning, several times throughout the years about this. there could be misuse in other sensitive parts choose to imagine here. Medical literature sometimes during endoscopic procedures, and spray was something hard to get in the hospital in Throat numbing spray can be helpful when you have canker sores, not to eat more spicy foods than dosage form can be easy to want to take more, Last point, the antidote methylene blue is used don't have an acute illness, or a if you don't need to put it in your body, don't hospital he needed a bit more methylene and he was watched closely by the medical as he learned a lesson about not needing to and about not misusing throat numbing spray Thanks so much for watching. Take