You have ten days left for your motor, I'll give you some hints. Keep the friction of your rotor You can't use any oil, of course, Balance your rotor And try to avoid that the rotor because when it vibrates when it needs it How will we test your motors? We do that with a stroboscope and I've decided to demonstrate That's probably the best thing to do. We here have a disk and we're going Let's assume that is your motor. And we're going to strobe it In this case-- I have set the strobe-- And the strobe is now going at five hundred RPM So this clearly is not the rotation rate of In fact, your motor goes twice around between And we'd have no way of knowing that, I'm trying to double it now, double the frequency And now it stands still again. So now we may think that your motor is going Maybe it's going three thousand R- Maybe three thousand RPM. So what are we going to do now, And so we go now with the strobe light And what we see now, is-- So two thousand RPM is out and any multiple So four thousand RPM is out, six thousand But what is not yet out is three thousand So we would have to test for that. On the other hand, I told you already that so there's no sense But during the actual contest, of course, until we are convinced that we have And so that's the way We will put a little bit of white paint so that's the way it will be done. Of course, if your motor is highly unstable it will not be easy I want to talk with you The heart, our heart Looks sort of like this. The left atrium Maybe this is why it's-- And here is the left and the ri- And here is the aorta. The sole purpose of the heart About five quarts per minute, which is seventy barrels per day, in seventy-five years. And it pumps about If the blood to your brain stops for about So it's five skips of the heartbeat And four minutes later, The way the heart works Extremely complicated. Nature had one billion years to design it, Each heart cell is a mini chemical battery In the normal state, each heart cell on the inside relative There are some cells which are called They are located in a very small area, near the atrium, and they change their potential to plus twenty millivolts. Now why they do that is a different story, Once they go to plus twenty millivolts, and a wave propagates I'll make you a drawing shortly. So the wave first moves and then over the And when the cells are inside relative to the outside, So they form a muscle. The whole heart And after about two tenths the cells return and this wave goes And then the whole thing for another message Takes about one second Now I want to be more precise. Here is one heart cell. So this is about ten microns in size. And this cell has eighty millivolts So that means it has repelled positive ions And there is no E field because if you put there is no net charge inside. But there is, of course, a electric field Now the depolarization, which is the change and it starts from above. And I will assume now that it is not plus and it's easier to see. If we have this cell and the wave is, and this is now zero millivolts, then there is no longer minus charge here because zero millivolts So there is no electric field In other words, what the cell has done, But here the situation is still so this is still at your And if you look now, you have here a minus Positive here, minus on top. And that creates which has roughly the shape It has this shape. So as the wave goes through the cells, And we call this the depolarization. A little later in time, the whole thing is plus I chose zero here, This is just easier to explain. So that means that now so positive ions are now inside, and the E field here is Now there is the repolarization wave, when it goes back And I will again do the same trick I will just assume that it is not minus eighty So there are no charges here, So what do you have now here? You have a minus So you have exactly So again you get an electric field, which has again the same shape. So what's going to happen is leaves behind here the cells at plus twenty millivolts, when they are contracted, so this part of the heart has already pumped, And only the cells that's only the ones on the ring, If there is no wave, which is sizeable fraction then there is no electric dipole field. And when the repolarization when the heart relaxes because then again there is but only from the cells through which the And you can very easily see of all these cells here So you get a dipole field And so if I make you look so this is you-- this is your body-- your legs-- and this is your arms and there goes this wave. And so here is your electric field either depolarization down But if there is an electric field, between different parts of your body. You look here at your belly button, and you follow this electric field line there is an E field. The integral E dot d l gives you a potential And so now you see that there're going to between the various parts And that's the idea Typically there are twelve electrodes to get as much information And the maximum potential difference is not more than about I'd like to show you a healthy heart I have that here. The time here is about one second The P wave, that is observed when the atrium so when the depolarization wave A little later it goes over the ventricle because there is more muscle So that's why this R wave The T wave is the repolarization, when the wave goes back The dipole field is in the same direction, That's the T wave. It's not known, at least it wasn't known recent-- I talked to a heart expert about this, and I was surprised to learn that Not everyone's cardiogram There is a terrible disease, which four hundred thousand people which is known as ventricular fibrillation, The ventricles fire without any message from and there is random, So the heart doesn't pump anymore, on the floor and in four minutes you, um, In hospitals, heart patients and as soon as it's noticed so severe as the fibrillation, then they apply So you have to be fast, before you get brain damage. And three thousand volts is applied, for about a tenth of a second. Large plates are being used And this, of course, is enough But it makes little difference, because the Heart patients can also get they implant a pacemaker, And this pacemaker takes over the role from When the heartbeat rate falls below a certain rate, About ten milliamperes for half a millisecond, And so it triggers, then, These pacemakers are susceptible and one person's pacemaker stopped, due to a radar sweep It's also possible that you get in other words, a system when sudden death So it senses that something that the ventricle and then it applies, all by itself, about five and a half milliseconds, And that's not enough and the whole idea is to the heart to get it back to get this depolarization wave So clearly I would like to show now and I prefer to have a healthy one You feel strong? You don't mind volunteering? Tight pants, we have to do OK, why don't you sit down. [laughter] Well, there's nothing I-- come in. We'll, we'll, we will, we'll, All right, so we have to attach-- we don't And the first one-- that's why I was worried Can you roll them up a little? OK. Oh, this one goes here. Let's hope that it makes good contact. Now the others go on your arm and therefore we put some It will make it a little-- but we'll give you a chance later So let's first put this one-- you're relaxed, right? So can you roll up your sleeve there? Very good. And mayb-- oh, oh, and maybe over your-- yeah, that's good... High up. Oh man, boy, [laughter] All right, just relax. If it hurts a little, oh well, [laughter] We need, we ne-- OK, now your other arm. Again, a little bit of gooky stuff. Oh, you need another rubber band, That's good, yeah. All right. So now it's very important that you relax, the other muscle cells will also produce And that we don't want, All right. I'm going to take-- Yeah? Everything OK? So I'm going to change so that you can see shortly there Oh, man. What a da- oh gee, Oh, gee. Oh, look! I see your-- [laughter] But you have an amazing T wave, right-- It looks like your R wave [laughter] You feel OK though, right? Yeah, I can't see Well, maybe some people survive [laughter] It's a certainly an unusual, an unusual heart, then I'll take your word for that. I think it would be nice why don't you just let your other muscles and they will see then-- You will see-- Move your arms. You see? Now you get the electric dipole field [laughter] which contract-- [laughter] This is even more interesting [laughter] All right, sit down again And then you can clean up. Looks good. Yeah. Heart cardiograms are not so easy But I think you're looking fine. And you feel all right, right? So thank you very much for volunteering, [applause] Yeah, make sure you clean It's water-soluble, What is your name, Danny. You were great, [laughter] And now I want to talk about If we have a magnetic field-- and we have a charged particle, and the velocity of that charged particle then the force on that charged particle, equals q times v cross B. I'm going to decompose into one component and into a component so the vectorial sum And so I can rewrite this as q times v parallel But v parallel crossed with v is zero, because the angle is either zero degrees so the sine of the angle is And so the force is exclusively It's by the perpendicular component. And so what is going to happen, this charged But then it continues to go in this direction And so you are going to see Whereby this radius R of that circle, I still remember it from the lecture that was m v divided by q B, but the v now is of course divided by q B-- and then in this direction which is the parallel component. Magnetic field of the earth, and so charged particles can spiral around the magnetic field and follow the magnetic field lines and they come down on Earth where the magnetic field lines enter, The sun emits a plasma. Plasma is highly ionized We call that the solar wind. Sometimes it's strong, And when it reaches the Earth, and then it produces light. The light is very faint, And that light is called Aurora but I'm sure that people they call it Southern Lights. When the sun is very active, really absolutely fabulous. The Aurora can change very fast, And it is, of course, strongest and so you r- rarely ever It can have very bright colors, And the color that you will see of the charged particles But it also depends on whether or the oxygen molecules Also depends on at what height, what height in the atmosphere I've seen it quite a few times I did hiking in the Adirondacks I've seen it from Calgary But whenever I fly to Europe I always ask for a window seat and that's the reason. So that I can look to the north and a few times have I seen spectacular I want to show you some slides. If you visit the 802 website to some fabulous But now I want to show you a few Can I have the first slide? This is, um, white Aurora, Not so uncommon. Can change on time scales As I said, It's very faint. The next slide? You see another remarkable Strange shapes, And the moving, it's like looking at a movie The next one is red Aurora, For reasons that are not so easy to understand, which is-- which has a radius of about from the magnetic pole. And the next slide shows you a picture which is three Earth radii This is taken in ultraviolet light. And you see beautiful this, this ring. So this radius is roughly and here is one I don't know whether it's the North Pole And the next slide shows you If you look only at these four, again in UV I don't know how to explain It's called Theta Aurora. Obviously why theta Amazing. And this is sort of-- these are so that gives you also an idea Over here it's very dark So the changes Now I want to talk Superconductivity was discovered His name was Kamerlingh Onnes. And he discovered that if you cool mercury he used liquid helium for that, in fact he actually That was the incredible thing. And then he used the liquid helium to cool and he discovered that mercury would lose So the electrical resistance And he got the Nobel Prize You can only understand superconductivity and even quantum mechanics to understand all the phenomenon The problem started in 1986, Muller and Bednorz, discovered that certain at a temperature as high as And theorists earlier had proven that it was at thirty-five degrees Kelvin. And so this was such a splash that these guys got the Nobel Prize In 1978 they got the Nobel Prize. I don't think there's any other example and within one year the Nobel Prize And theorists still cannot explain why there is what's called high-temperature superconductivity. The record today, I checked that yesterday the record is now hundred thirty-five So certain alloys can be made superconducting And since you probably know has a temperature of anyone can now play nowadays with even high schools, because liquid nitrogen If you make power lines there would be no loss of energy. People are thinking about that. You can imagine how costly but in principle you could transport without any omega losses. No I squared R, because R is zero. Also, if you have zero resistance you can run extremely and you can therefore get very strong And using superconducting coils, you can get very and these colliders that we talked about earlier, like we have at Fermilab and in Geneva, they are going to make use to get magnetic fields as high as No electric field can exist And you can very easily see that, if this is a superconductor and there is there would be a potential difference And Ohm's Law, V equals I R, tells you then but if this is zero So you cannot have any electric field If I approach a superconducting disk say this is the north pole so we have a magnetic field configuration If I approach this superconducting material, because of Faraday's Law, because there's a change in that EMF must remain zero, because you cannot have an electric And this, of course, is I R. So R is also zero. So I now can have any value, So you can have a huge current inside the And so as you approach eddy currents are going to run in such a way that d phi d t, And so these eddy currents will flow because there was no magnetic flux to start with so there can never be any change. And so the eddy c- currents create which, if you vectorially add them will always make sure that there is no net And so if you now make a drawing of the, the one that is produced by the eddy currents when the magnet comes very close-- and here is your superconductor-- then the superposition of those two fields then, effectively comes down to the fact that this magnetic field is completely repelled-- You get a squeezed field here. But that is the superposition one produced by the eddy currents And whenever you have here such a squeezed We know why there is magnetic pressure, but we never expressed that And the magnetic pressure equals B squared, divided by-- is it two? Yeah, two mu zero, I'll get back to this a little later And this is pressure, This is not entirely new, because you may have seen nice conversation piece. You have here a-- a magnet and this is a-- There's a hole in here This is north pole, south pole, north pole, That's magnetic pressure. It's the same thing. And if you drew the magnetic field that's the magnetic field and this would be the magnetic We get the same idea. You get magnetic pressure there. If I rotate this magnet here, so th-- which is in a way a form of levitation The magnet is just pushed up is the way you can look at it. But if you start rotating it, for instance, or the south pole there the eddy currents will instantaneously adjust So even if you rotate it, it would still hang What is not so easy to understand is As you will shortly see, So I'm going to show you there I first have to top it off so let me do that Oh boy. Good. So I have to top it off. And this disk, which is about an inch in diameter, I can even tell you what kind of material It is a copper oxide mixed and it becomes superconducting And liquid nitrogen So we're going to put a small magnet on top, For that, we're going to have And of course you want to see it also, And you want some light. So there you see the disk, which is-- And here comes my little magnet. So there is no magnetic flux It itself is not a magnet. But now I'm going to come close with a magnet and it just floats on top. It's amazing, isn't it. So this is magnetic levitation and the eddy currents And there it is. Yah, you've all seen it, OK, let me get the-- Imagine in the days of Kamerlingh Onnes to have anything superconductive There are other forms One going to be very promising and that is magnetic levitation If you have a magnet and you move it fast then you also get levitation. You have to move it though, whereas there, See, if you let that magnet just go, then there is an eddy current but the eddy current never There is no I squared R So you never lose That's different with Now I have a-- Here is north So we have a magnetic field And I'm going to move it over a plate, and I'll put the plate here. And as it comes the magnetic flux through Mr. Faralow s-- actually, it's Mr. Lenz who says, And so they're going to run and the eddy current will undoubtedly go in And this current ring now will produce And look what you have. You have again this is the north pole of this North pole repels north pole. And so if this has a high enough speed the d phi d t is high enough, Tens of tons of weight And the reason why in this case that if the train stops There's no longer the d phi d t but there and so you get Ohmic dissipation. You get I squared R. You get heat in here. And so then the train And that's not the case because you don't dissipate because the superconductor So the idea is the same, but you see now and why there you don't. And so again you get a squeezed and so you get Japan and Germany are really the leaders in that's what these trains are called. United States is trying to catch up. There's an enormous reduction in friction that is not in contact with the rails. In fact, speeds have been recorded up to three Both Germany and Japan have test trains, United States has made a commitment to go from Washington DC, should be ready The costs per mile are about Now that make strike as high, but keep in that's also thirty million So it's no more expensive And again, when you visit the 802 website, I advise you to take a look. Now there is a third form of magnetic levitation and we don't need any superconductors And that's also easy to see now. Here is such a coil So at one particular moment in time, and maybe is increasing. And then of course the magnetic field turns Now I have here a conducting plate But now I have this continuous so I have a continuous change So as this magnetic flux, you're going to get an eddy current which will create the magnetic field And you're back where you were. You again have north pole, north pole, So again, the eddy current in the conducting and the two repel each other. So a little later in time, the magnetic field When that happens, and the two will attract each other. And so you will think now that half the time and the other half of the time they That, however, There will be a net And why that is, I will explain to you But I want to demonstrate it now. I have here such a coil, about an area of I can simply run hundred ten volts, I switch th-- This goes into hundred ten volt outlet It starts to float. No high-speed train, What do you think will happen Excuse me? Of course it will float again. The ed-- the eddy currents adjust themselves and they will always So this is another interesting form So we have the superconducting way, so those currents never die out. Then you have the case of the train, whereby you have to keep because if you don't then you don't have enough and so you don't The eddy currents would die, And then there is whereby you simply have a changing which then creates the So now we come to the levitation How do we levitate a woman? Well, the secret must be V is B squared We have a coil which is about so the area of that coil is about And so our goal was that we should be able to give ourselves And so we calculated that if the magnetic which is about oh point one five tesla, We know that mu zero is four pi times ten And so you can calculate now The force is of course the pressure assuming that the magnetic field And so you're going to get that this force which is oh point one five squared, times ten to the seventh, which is oh point one square meter and you find that this is about Ninety kilograms, as I said, Then we tried to get and believe me, Marcos and I and Bill, but there was a problem, to get these magnetic fields. And at these very high currents, So we called up the physical plant, You need several hundred amperes. You think we can get seven hundred-- You have to redesign MIT for that.&quot; So it was very So the best we could do was the strongest we could only get a magnetic field which is four times lower. And the tragedy has it that the magnetic so that makes it So the two hundred pounder now But that's the reason why when some women because they volunteered, But I want to keep my promise. I said I was going to levitate a woman And here she is. [laughter] And as far as we know, [laughter] OK, give her some room. She deserves-- And there she goes. I levitated a woman. [laughter] Have a great Spring Break. [applause]