Bonjour! And welcome to a new week with us. For those new to our channel, we're Anicia, Philippe and Odin. And over a year ago we moved from Belgium to France and began documenting our journey to transform this former farm into our home. We've made huge strides clearing the land and dealing with the effects of heavy rainfall, but we know we still have years of work ahead. from fully renovating the old and new barns to restoring the house and smaller structures around the property, like the bread oven and the well. So there's plenty more to come. The past few weeks, the focus has been on two key projects: digging behind the barn to keep it from deteriorating even more, and trying to get an old tractor running Once we have it going, this tractor will help us maintain the fields around the house and keep the brambles at bay. and yes, goats could manage the overgrowth. but for a few reasons we're holding off on that for now. That'll be a topic for another video. Today, though, the focus is on the task in front of us: an old McCormick tractor from the 60s finally getting the attention it deserves. Philippe and Claude have big jobs ahead of them. Starting up the engine again, giving it a test drive after all these years, removing the front loader and even preparing to split the tractor in two to access the gearbox. It's turning into a serious restoration, with much more involved than just starting the engine, But with each step, we're closer to having a fully functional tractor ready to work on the property. We're going to take these ones out. These are "bougies de prechauffage", so these are the ones that heat up the diesel. Or how do I say to start. So we think there might be a few bad. So we're going to test them there are four. What else did I do is new accelerator cable so on here. And it goes all the way to the accelerator pedal. So that should be fine. So let's take these ones out. It's simple. Just unscrew this, take out the wire and then the big bolt over here and take them all out. So we took off all the wiring. It's quite easy. And now we try to take them out and check them if they're good. Alright, here we go, it's heating up. It's gonna get red-hot! Yes, yes there it is. Do you see it? There we go, perfect. Alright, that's good. I've been checking the compression on this engine for cylinders have done two now, and they both have the same low compression. And I'm going to do a third one. The fourth one is a little bit more difficult. But if the third one has the same low compression then it might be not the pistons in there, but it might be just in here, the valves, which creates the air exhaust mixture, if I'm not mistaken. So that is the reason why everything could to have a low compression. Because if it was just one cylinder and it might be the piston, I think. But if it's all four cylinders who have a low compression or the same compression, then it's either going to be in the upper parts of the engine. Yesterday it wanted to start so. But surprised. It doesn't want to today. But it still has probably the low compression on cylinder, so doesn't make it easy to start, Okay. We're going to open this rocker cover, which controls the little valves going to the pistons, if I'm not mistaken, and see what's going on there. It has been opened already because I see blue, silicone, which they used to close it up again. Oh. So I don't know if it's pretty clear for you guys. I'm not a mechanic, so I don't know if my explanation is going to be correct, but you have a piston going up and down, and you have the combustion, and then the exhaust gas needs to go out. That's what these do. There's two per cylinder. So one is for the exhaust gas and one is for the fresh air. So there's two little valves going open close open close open close. While the piston goes up and down. So that's what these do, if I'm not mistaken. So what's going to happen. Because we have low compression. Maybe there's something wrong with, these valves and they leave it open at the wrong time. So you have no, compression, no pressure in the chamber. If this is correct, what I'm saying. This is called a rocker. I think with the rocker cover. And these are the rockers who, distribute it, but the valves itself are inside the engine are deeper. So if needed, will be taking this whole block apart. To see why we have low compression. But I'm going to wait on Mr. Claude to tell me what to do, Go press the starter. Ok. Yes. What's important now is the clutch. When you have the clutch (working), you can take (the tractor) up you could let it drive up there, you see? You could let it work. Good morning. Today we're going to work on the tractor. Yesterday, we took off the front loader. Today we're going to load the front loader on that old trailer that I have. I'm gonna pick it up with the dumper. Get the old trailer down at Claude's. We're going to, pick up, device. I'm just going to call it because the old tractor, we have to split in two because the clutch is stuck. So we need to split the engine and the clutch. Open it up, fix it, and then close the tractor again. That's why we took off the front loader. Yeah, that's about it for today. I'm going to see how much I can film of it, because I don't want to be bothering Claude all the time with the camera. But I'm going to try anyways. So let's get started. See if you can hitch up that old trailer. And with the front loader off, I'm going to leave it off for a little while. I'm going to buy myself, mower for behind the tractor. We're going to test the tractor, see if it has enough power. Use it a few times, and if we see. Okay, the engine is good. I'm going to put the front loader back on, because with the front loader on, it's not always easy to work on. Certain things. So. And I don't need it at this moment. I just want a running tractor with the mower so I can start cleaning up these fields. The reason I'm loading it up on the old trailer. The front loader is, Because I don't use the old trailer for anything that needs restoring. But we can put the front loader on it, and I don't have to unload it. If I put it on my newer trailer. And I need the new trailer and I'm stuck. So it's actually this old trailer that I found is actually going to have its use. So, I'm glad I didn't. Well, I wouldn't have chucked it. Out anyways, but it needs a lot of renovation. It's, almost made entirely out of wood, and the wood is rotten, so. We put up this, the call it "chevre", I think that means a goat, with four legs and above, there is a, metal rail. So we can split the engine and the back side so we can, get, working on the clutch. Thing, as you see, a lot of these, will it run videos and they make it run, but then you don't see anything about it anymore? That's because making the engine run is maybe the easiest part. There's all the rest that is involved afterwards. Getting it to run properly. The clutch, the brakes, differentials, I know what else there is. Hydraulics. So, you get to see it run, but that's it. It's the same on this engine. It is running. We get it to fire up, but the compression is very low. But if I wouldn't say it, then you guys will be thinking "Ah that thing runs very sweet!" And that's the video, so. But there is a lot more work on it to be done. Like the clutch is stuck. And that's because the clutch plates are sticking together. So, it's actually a double clutch. So we got one loose, but the other one is inside. So we can't touch it. We try to get it loose by pulling it and everything, but it's still stuck. So that's why we're going to, get the engine and the clutch open so we can work on it. What I'm going to do now, is remove front bumper and remove these two rails that were holding, holding the front loader. We want them off so we can reach everything easily. Then we will test the tractor and the engine with, mower behind it. So we know for sure it's 100% working. And if the compression is good, then we will put back the front loader, because it's a lot more easier to work on it when there's nothing in the way. So what about the second tractor, the original one we found? We won't be taking this one apart. That would be, a little bit stupid, because it's in a good shape to get the parts from this one and put it on the older one. The older one is going to need a lot more work, and the idea is still to restore it, but I think I might wait until our barn is ready dry, and I can put it inside and then work on it, because I don't want to trouble Claude too much. And if you do a full restoration, then I will be taking up his space for several months. Which wouldn't be nice. Amazes me. How old is a machine is, and the bolts come loose. And when you sometimes work on more recent machines. The bolts don't come loose Let's start by dismantling the starter. Fuel line. this steering bar the heater plug. We'll have to have a look because we want to separate it here. So this is the clutch housing I'm going to call it. And this is the engine part. And they need to go part. So everything that is connected to the back or the front has to be separated. Oh. This one was very loose already by itself. Okay, this one is done as well. So the fuel tank on this side can go to the bolts holding the bell housing and engine together on this side are done. Stop cable is done. Voila, I think I'm almost there. The return line for the fuel was still there. This one is done as well, so I think I can go to the other side. All right, so this side... This line has to go. This hydraulic line. I have to say, that's. Everything. Up until now, almost everything from bolts and things that I had to get loose on this old, old tractor went easy. Okay. So electrics are cut So now it's just going to be the hydraulics at the back. So I think this is the last to go. This is the. Accelerator. Cable. One of the first things I bought and changed on this. So we at least could get it started properly. Now, it has to go again. There we go. Voila. I think I'm there. Finished. I'm going to clean everything up. It's ready to be broken in two, but, that I'm going to do with the Claude. And it's the 1st of November, so it's, holiday. So that's enough for today. BBQ. Wow. Oh. It's very hot. It's very hot. Meat as well, Odin. Do it with your fry. Yes, there you go. Good job, Odin That's how you do it.