(waves crashing) (gentle music) 27 miles of scenic beauty and some of the most expensive (dramatic music) Few people in the world get of this exclusive collection of homes. And today, you are one of them. We just finished touring this $58 million Malibu modern mansion, and it is unlike anything It's design elements, details, it's one of a kind, and I'm really excited to show it to you. We've toured a lot of homes in Malibu, but we've never seen An incredible selection an insane interior I've never seen a home with a central courtyard like this before. This place is so amazing that the listing agent had to come out and watch us shoot this episode. - Enes, welcome home. - [Enes] So much to talk about. - The house was all done This is tropical, modern zen It honestly makes my head explode. - It makes me sick. Gourmet kitchens. Dolby Atmos theater. - You got the waves with all the surfers. Look at that surfer right there. - An eight-car garage and so much more. But you just have to stick It's always so fun to come to Malibu. It makes me question my life. Let's check out this house. On the street level, we have the gates opening with this bluestone and turf pattern. And this curved driveway brings you to the entry of this home. Property looks stunning. Landscaping looks incredible. They have brought over to bring life to this It looks like a tropical oasis. - [Mikey] Yeah, I was It literally looked like a jungle with the ocean in the background. It looked insane. - Palm trees, hedging, water features. We have the first water And in case you were wondering, we have the first four-car garage here. And this staircase actually takes you to the roof of the garage where We have beautiful cars I'm assuming that's a Jeep. - [Mikey] Some crazy custom Jeep. - Looks very cool. And on the other side, we have that is attached to the main home. Now, I wanna bring everybody's Architecture of this home is so amazing. We have this cantilevered section above me that is the second floor of the home. Underneath this cantilevered section, we have this unique lighting installation that lights up the entry of this home. Bluestone walkway transitions And then we have the glass to the entry. Two water features. And within the water features, we also have fire features. On the right-hand side, we have this beautiful water wall that creates this amazing sound and sets the tone for Now, if you look at the it has travertine and composite Above the roof, we have 180 solar panels, which I'll talk about later. Entire home is ICF concrete, meaning it's reinforced concrete So this is a bulletproof structure, and I'm really excited for this tour. Now, let's continue. We have the glass bridge here, and the glass pivot door takes This is without a doubt one we have ever seen in any home. 25-foot high ceiling. We have a massive skylight of natural light. Then you have these opening up to the central courtyard, which we'll check out in a bit. This is the bridge that which is on the right-hand side. And on the second floor, we have these dragon onyx slabs that are all bookmatched and backlit. And I'm sure this entry I haven't seen this property at night, but I've seen the photos of it, and I'm really excited for our night tour. Now, before we continue, I wanna talk about the We have six bedrooms, 10 bathrooms, approximately 17,000 square Again, house was recently completed. It's on a one-acre gated lot And I wanna give big thanks especially Rayni, Branden, and Tony for making this tour possible. I'm so excited for this video. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's incredible. I don't know if we've ever had And what would you even - Central courtyard. - [Mikey] Central Courtyard. It's like the jungle theme continues. - It's amazing. You have true floor-to-ceiling motorized sliding glass doors. Amazing indoor-outdoor continuity. And this space, this central courtyard, brings so much natural of this home. Then you have a koi pond And this koi pond actually continues to the side of the property where you have a dedicated from front of the home all I also really appreciate that with more water features. Then on this side, we have this with another water wall. Natural light coming in. Recessed lights. More stone figures. Small seating area on the other side, palm trees, landscaping. This is incredible. I've never seen a And it gets better. If you follow the walkway, it takes you directly to the living room. Amazing. - [Mikey] And the ocean views. - Just incredible. - [Mikey] We'll get there in a second. - All right, let's continue our tour. Back to the entry. Travertine floors. Ton of Vertical oak wood slats. And then we have this hallway and some of the other common areas. Now, we have this concealed to the four-car garage that Then on this side, we And on the back, we have On top, we have a backlit onyx stone. And if you looked at this art installation from a certain angle, you can see the reflection of Buddha, which is on this side. It's a bluestone carving. And it's crazy how they and this opening perfectly. And then they placed this - [Mikey] Seems like some and peace right there. I don't know, but... - Message here is too It just looks really cool. - [Mikey] We have a walkthrough to do. Actually, when I was before we came here, this was the one thing as being like totally original. But I guess it kinda reflects of the home a little bit. - Japanese, feng shui. - [Mikey] Yeah, exactly. - Absolutely. And this samurai armor reminds in the watch that I really wanna buy, the Richard Mille watch. The video that I showed you. - [Mikey] To explain to the audience, Enes is obsessed with this one watch that Richard Mille makes. They have a great YouTube channel if y'all haven't seen it. It's really high quality. - [Enes] Yeah, their production is insane. - [Mikey] Yeah, they have But the whole thing is a samurai watch. - One day. - [Mikey] And it's a quite - It is quite expensive. One day, I'll get it. Hopefully. - [Mikey] Yeah. - All right, let's continue our tour. So hallway, travertine floors. Again, we have oak wood slats. There's a small seating But first, I wanna take everybody here. Kitchen, formal dining area, but let's go straight to the living room. I really like the seating arrangement here with these Mah Jong sectional couches. They're from Roche Bobois, and they just give such a Then on the walls, we have these onyx slabs that are backlit. And again, I'm sure this room is gonna On my left-hand side, we have a 3,000-gallon saltwater aquarium. And through the aquarium, you can actually look into Then on the right-hand side, we have this linear fireplace But more importantly, right behind Mikey, we have motorized sliding to these breathtaking views. You have your 95-foot infinity edge pool. Ocean breeze coming in. And to make the space even better, we have more motorized the central courtyard to the living room. That way, you have this airflow coming in. Great energy throughout the house. Look at the backdrop behind - [Mikey] It's wild. I feel like- - [Mikey] I feel like of an injustice to talking So around Enes, all these walls But this house at night, It's especially crazy, you know? - And let me add to that, so you'll realize that you can or bulky light fixtures. The developer here went with these recessed-in light fixtures. Then he also put obviously But more importantly, he through these backlit stone walls. And that's pretty much majority - [Mikey] Yeah. - And that's why this property at night that I'm really - [Mikey] Yeah, almost every single stone that you'll see in this house is backlit. Almost every stone. - Almost every single stone. - [Mikey] The bluestone is - Correct. All right, let's continue our tour. Now, let's take everybody Beautiful table setup. Seating for 16. I really like the these Table is solid wood Cutlery, details, accessories. Room looks very exquisite. We have this planter wall detail on this side creating some separation between the formal dining but you can still see through it. Then on this side, we have the aquarium. What a nice feature. And I was just imagining. You sit down here. You're having an amazing meal. You have all these incredible finishes. You have a plant wall behind you. You're looking through an aquarium where you have the living with a fireplace. Then you have the Pacific Ocean here. Overwhelming, like- - [Mikey] Not to mention like, you're probably gonna be I don't wanna overkill the night thing, but this is also really to the photos. And we'll see it in a little bit. - Absolutely. What an amazing room. And I also wanna mention throughout the first floor. And, entire first floor And on the second floor, I believe they have in-floor Now, before we go toward the kitchen, I actually wanna take everybody this way. This is the first staircase that takes you up to the Another massive skylight. Look at the living wall So much light and so And these living walls have their own irrigation system as well. Super cool. Now, I wanna take everybody to the lounge. U-shaped sectional couch. You have the ottoman. And on top, they dropped this Creates a beautiful contrast. You have your projector on the other side. Built-in speaker. Wood-clad And on this side, we have a with built-in cabinetry around it. And the drawer fronts And I've never seen this In fact, developers Mikey, can we get a closeup? You can see how it's so smoothly So apparently, that's So I learned it today, and I Very cozy room. And if you wanna get away and hide here a little - [Mikey] For sure. - Now, let's go back to the hallway again. On my left-hand side, This concealed door opens up Same oak slats that we've They have it also in this room. Then you have this massive and I love how they worked the cabinetry around the sink as well. Backlit onyx that goes all the This is incredible. I mean, look at the And all the wood paneling the contrast, finishes, It's pretty stunning. Welcome to the kitchen. I can honestly say I have never seen a minimalist kitchen I mean, where do I begin? The stone fabrication Then you have the main cabinetry behind me with the fluted finish. And within the cabinetry, there's also these design Mikey, I don't know if you can see it. It's so minimalist, but at the same time, you have so many and veins with the stones. Bar seating on this side. Additional bar seating on And because this entire these drawers also have stone fronts. And that's why they have motorized So when you push, they kick out. - [Mikey] So I guess they're because they have stone - Absolutely. - [Mikey] Yeah. - And I don't know how to solve this problem, but even within the cabinetry, So the engineering that an island like this, making it look simple and clean while having all of this functionality, it's pretty incredible. - [Mikey] Yeah and I think everything in this kitchen is more or Like, I assume these are - Let's see. - [Mikey] You knew that - Yeah, of course I do. This is where we have the wine fridge. I just wanted to show you. - [Mikey] You said, &quot;Let's see.&quot; - Well, I was just excited And again, you have all Fridge, freezer on this side. Before we continue, I wanna actually take everybody this way. This is where we have the chef's kitchen. Commercial appliances. Gas stove here. Bluestone countertops as And I really like this offset design here with the backsplash, sink, dishwasher. Massive picture window looking And it's nicely hidden because or concealed panel. That way, when you close this, you don't even know that on this side. Now, more built-in Then we have additional And before I start talking I wanna first focus on this massive picture window of the home. We have some bamboo hedging here. And this frame gives and just cozy feel, you know? - [Mikey] Yeah, it's really nice. The bamboo kinda matches - Absolutely. And on top of that, because it just makes the space and a little bit more relaxing. Now, let's talk about the appliances. Gas burner, induction, And I really like that these to the stone front. Now, we have the main sink here, all stone fabricated with a dish rack. And then you have an Overall, beautiful design. And I really appreciate that the developer, MKH Developments, put into this house. It definitely shows. Everywhere we walk, every stone we touch, and every frame we look, it just looks stunning. Now, let's talk about these They're thin profile, and I really like the tracks are hidden and ceiling is flush. They have spent over $3.5 million Isn't that incredible? - [Mikey] Yeah, that's insane. And also, I don't know but the switches for these They're really cool. - They're kinda industrial. - [Mikey] Yeah, for sure. (switches clicking) - There you go. All right, let's take everybody outside. Welcome to the backyard. (upbeat music) Before we continue our tour, a quick word from today's Every day you guys reach out to get started as a real estate investor. But between the cash up and tenant management, it can feel impossible to get started. In fact, over 400 million of the real estate economy. But reAlpha is here to solve that problem. ReAlpha lets anyone invest in an Airbnb as easy as buying a stock. And for a limited time, you can join them today as a shareholder in the company itself on the ground floor. This is the kind of opportunity that is typically only open ReAlpha is an amazing real that is building a portfolio then allowing users to through their app. ReAlpha is making it possible to share in this $1.2 trillion market without renovating homes or dealing with guest calls at 3:00 a.m. Millions have been left out but reAlpha is changing the game by giving users part ownership of AI-vetted vacation properties. ReAlpha has even started to diversify their existing portfolio of single family homes with experiential properties with RARE Treehouse Resorts. Most recently, they have secured one of the industry's largest of over $200 million to Then just a few weeks later, a separate asset management firm agreed to invest an additional and rent-ready STR What's great is that with the the capital they raise to buy a lot more homes. Check out the link in the description to become a reAlpha shareholder today before the opportunity That's right, there are So click the link and invest today. Big thanks to reAlpha for And now, let's get back to our tour. (laid-back hip music) Views are fantastic. We have a few hundred This is incredible. Weather is great. 95-foot infinity edge pool here. I'm excited for the backyard tour. Now, let's start with the outdoor kitchen. Stainless steel appliances. You have a grill, pizza oven, fridge down below. And this is the first Next to that, we have a built-in bar setup that is attached to the wall, and that section also lights up at night. Now, let's talk about this 20-feet wide, all mosaic clad. We have the hot tub here. Swim-up bar on this side with a beer tap. Another sink. TV on this side. And the pool house comes which is located on the back. Overall, design of the matches the house really well. Then we have the turf Motorized sliding glass doors open up. Formal dining room and the to the backyard and to It's always so fun to come to Malibu. It makes me question my life. Mikey and I live quite into the city, meaning it takes us almost So I can't imagine living and being able to just walk to the beach. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's crazy. There's all these surfers The waves are actually pretty big today. - [Enes] Yes. - [Mikey] It's been about so I don't really belong out there. But I know you'd probably - I would love to be out there right now, but I'm also really excited that we're touring this property. You know, we have a cool job. - [Mikey] Yeah. Lounging chairs. I like this umbrella with a stone base. It has a single column. It It matches the house well. And then it's not in but on this side, we have Same Mah Jong sectional in the living room area. They have it also here. And it's a perfect height, meaning it's shallow enough all you see is your infinity It's really nice. All right, let's continue our tour. We have a Baja shelf Even the retaining walls, look at all the stone You have two cabanas there. And that's the walkway that can take you from the to your backyard without It's a nice convenience to have. But even that walkway is so stone steps, it's pretty impressive. Now, I wanna talk about It's a beautiful modern design. These two cantilevered sections are your primary bedroom balconies. This house actually has We have the first one on this wing, second one on the other side. And this section right here with these massive glass panes and your walk-in closets. So I wanted to mention that, and we're gonna see those spaces in a bit. And what's so impressive that it's all concrete. Now, I wanna take a moment to explain how the developer here built this house because it's super cool. He used ICF walls, which are kinda like that we always see in architectural homes. He used these forms to build walls. And within the forms, you And once you form these walls, which have insulation on both sides, then you pour concrete on top. So you have this very uniform that is so strong. And imagine building the where you have insulation concrete and rebar in place. So it's super strong. And on top of that, the developer and he made the roof concrete as well. And that wasn't enough for him. Then he also installed You can actually operate on the solar panels. How amazing is that? - [Mikey] We've heard of in really hurricane or storm-prone regions - Correct. But Malibu, like maybe- - You don't need to. - [Mikey] Maybe like twice a year, you get a thunderstorm or - It's gotta be three to than traditional framing But this home, with the way it was built, will last you forever. It's so well insulated. And I mean, I saw some of the construction It blew my mind away. The amount of concrete they poured, this house is not going anywhere. Amazing. All right, let's continue our tour. We have additional motorized opening up to the bar area. Again, furniture looks beautiful. Built-in cabinetry. Dual elevation bar. Seating areas on this side Again, onyx wall. And by the way, all the furniture is included so I wanted to mention that. Beautiful space flows And actually, Mikey, can we go this way? I wanna show everyone this detail. I bet you don't know this. So we have the wine wall here. (wine rack hums) - [Mikey] Oh, that's interesting. - Pretty cool, huh? - [Mikey] We saw something but it took the wine from the first floor- - In Hollywood Hills. - [Mikey] to the second floor, yeah. (wine wall door clunks) - Super cool detail. And this is your bar. TV's nicely recessed in. They even fluted the stone Everything looks very minimalist. We have some carved bluestone there. Oak panel ceilings. Beautiful space. Now, let's continue. On this side, we have I wanna first talk about I've never seen a musical Goes really well with the house. We get walls of glass facing And that's why having that It allows all these rooms to And at night or in the afternoon, Looks very cool. - [Mikey] Yeah, it does. - Billiards table. Built-in seating. We have TV on the other side. Your poker table is Open shelving on the back. And this is the same water feature that we saw at the central courtyard, and that's why we have this to the other side. This door opens up to a full bathroom. Beautiful marble floors And the same marble is also Vanity's around the corner. And we have an exterior door here, meaning this full bathroom also works as your pool bathroom since we have that connecting walkway here. Now, on the other side, Very spacious powder room We have the same backlit just like the other powder Then you have a travertine with two sinks. Black fixtures. Oak paneling on the walls. Really nice powder room. Now, let's go back to the hallway. These double doors open We have a small bar area here. Again, backlit onyx. Fridge, sink, your popcorn And we have this curtain Now, the design elements of this movie theater are very unique. But how these different to create this unique ambiance I mean, where do I begin? You have vertical wood slats And then you have the same that goes all the way to the ceiling. And then between these panels, you have this green carpet on the ceilings for better acoustics. And all these different colors Then you have cloud couches, And as if that wasn't enough- - [Mikey] Not just a screen, though. That's a pretty massive screen. - Well, this is a Dolby as well. - Yeah. - [Mikey] I love that. - And lastly, we have this unique carpet. And somehow, it all works together and creates this unique experience. And I wanna say something This carpet was custom done for this room, and it reminded me of the guy who painted his house in the UK. You know the house I'm talking about, right? I've seen this guy going He painted his car, - Everything. - [Mikey] in doodles more or less, yeah. - Yeah, it's pretty impressive. And these lines reminded me of him. And with that, we're Now, let's go check out the second floor. (cool trendy music) You develop homes, so that goes into building But there's obviously the finishes and the details of this home, and there's the whole rebar reinforced. It's fascinating to me that had the resilience to go design it, curate it, and put it all together. What do you think? - It honestly makes my head explode- - It makes me sick thinking about it. - to think about this that it takes. It is so much money on the MKH Developments, they did and they went so far and beyond. And you will never see a on this show or I think ever again. And it really is a one of a kind. And I know we say that with It's so special, this house. They did such a spectacular job. - All right, everyone, let's go check out the This is the living wall Skylight above. Vertical wood slats. Ton of warmth. Hardwood floors. And I wanna first show that we have on this level. Backlit coffee table. Again, a lot of warm wood tones. Then we have the projector Mikey, I think you know this, what they call these to the screen. - [Mikey] Short-throw projectors. I think they have the to actually mount anything on the wall. As you can see, the they just have two little of having a projector Anything like that just cleans you know? - I see. Well, there you go. You learn But we have the projector here. Sliding glass doors open up to a balcony that connects to your gym, which we'll see next. Overall, I like the landing here because you have massive to your courtyard. And I'm sure with all plants, everything, this space will look even Now, let's continue our tour. We have a full bathroom here for the gym. Marble that they used for I mean, look at all the Then you have these like of this thing. yeah. - Insane. And then you have the It actually goes to the other side where we have the steam room. And then you have your vanity here. Again, the same marble is as well as the backsplash. Skylight above. Spacious bathroom for the gym, which is located on this side. Sliding glass doors open up. It connects to the same Hardwood floors. Again, And I wanna say besides a few locations, they don't have any drywall in this house. It's either stone, wood, - Yeah. - [Mikey] Or green carpet - That's right. That's right. This is your gym. Treadmill. Tonal is attached to the wall. Spacious, gets great light. Moving on. Now, right next to the we have the first laundry room. Washer, dryer. Built-in cabinetry. You have Even the laundry room, I mean, Choice of marble, which is Then it opens up to a balcony. I don't know why you need from your laundry room, but you can in this house. You know what? Malibu has great weather. You can just leave the door Beautiful laundry room. Now, I wanna take everybody Again, massive glass panes Coming here, this is the at the entry of this home. Glass railing. Floor-to-ceiling glass to the courtyard. Look at the dragon onyx that we have here. And I'm sure in a few this section is gonna look unbelievable. - [Mikey] Yeah, it's gonna be wild. - All right. Mikey, I wanna show this We have a pocket door here because you can close off this section as your guest quarters. We have a few bedrooms here, living room, and a small kitchenette. And if you have guests, if you wanna create some separation, you can do that with this door. Coming in, I wanna show We have the first one here. Super cozy. Comes with a king size bed. Wood tones. Built-in cabinetry here. Room has a very warm feel to it, and I feel like color a little bit more soothing. Then you have sliding to a very nice balcony. And within the balcony, to give additional How cool is that? Then you have hedging on the other side, so you don't see the neighbor. All right. Now, this is a Jack-and-Jill setup, meaning there's a bathroom here shared by these two bedrooms. And that's why we have two vanities here. Again, look at the marble, So bespoke. Then you have the walk-in Water closet here. Really nice bathroom. - [Mikey] You know what this - What? - [Mikey] Monitor's Rest, the - Oh wow, I can see that. Although the finishes are like it's almost just like the variety. - [Mikey] The variety of design and like how solid everything feels. It's like that's one of And you know, I think this - I hear you. Well, I feel like that house and details and like- - [Mikey] It was all custom. - custom cabinetry, custom wall paneling. I feel like this house is kinda like that. Each room has a design on its own. I mean, look at the color But I also like that some meaning you have the oak cabinetry is uniform. But you have these - [Mikey] Yep, it's totally customized. - Without a doubt. Now, sliding glass doors but they have a divider wall So you get some additional privacy. And that's it for this bedroom. Now, I wanna take everybody here. Take this hallway. Stacked washer and dryer. Sink setup here. Additional cabinetry. And this door opens up to the common area for the guesthouse. What I mean by common area on this side. Seating area on the left. And this is a great space, because it has an outdoor staircase that comes up from the entry And since you have that pocket door where you can seal it off you can use this as an office. You can use this as a house - [Mikey] Totally detached guesthouse or staff quarters or anything. - And it's self-sustaining. Seating area. There's another full bathroom And it doesn't feel like it's a room that compromises from because you have a front-facing balcony, you still get amazing views, you have all this volume. It's pretty impressive. - [Mikey] Yeah, and I have to say, I'm gonna take the camera For some reason, I really like this gas - [Enes] Oh, I thought you - [Mikey] No, something Like when we see smaller they don't feel customized or anything. This has a cool look to it for me. - There you go. Mikey liked it. I mean, it looks good. Look at these views. You Again, outdoor staircase. Personally, this part of the for me because you can do so much with it. Now, I wanna take everybody back to the second floor staircase so we can continue our tour on this wing. We have three bedrooms here, two primary bedrooms and Let's go have a quick look. Pivot door opens up. King size bed. I really like this padded back wall that continues all the way to the ceiling. Same warm wood tones are also here. Built-in cabinetry with backlighting. Sliding glass doors open And I really appreciate that that we have on this level so I wanted to mention that. Now, of course, this room Starts here. Walk-in shower on my right-hand side and another natural stone vanity. Fabrication looks gorgeous. We have the water closet And this bathroom also Now, I wanna take everybody or back to the hallway so we can check out the By the way, we have the Can we talk about this for a second? Some of the interior doors Interior doors. They have steel frames, even though they're clad with wood slats. They're actually like - [Mikey] How tall are these ceilings too? Are these like 12-foot ceilings? - I believe on this level it's 10-foot-six and down below it's 11-foot-six. - [Mikey] It's a tall door. - Without a doubt. All right, come on in. First, let's show this side to everyone. They have a really nice coffee all this cabinetry, And then I wanna show which is incredible. Fireplace. Backlit stone. Textures here. King size bed. Look at the back paneling behind the bed with all these different And I gotta show this detail Instead of bedside table lights, - [Mikey] Uh-hmm? (switch clicks) Oh wow. I should have guessed that in this house. - [Mikey] That's pretty awesome. - Beautiful. Beautiful, right? And then we have the same Entire corner opens up. Sliding You have drop-down shades. They're all motorized. And of course, we have to the outdoors. This is the massive balcony when we were at the backyard. Look at our views. Sun is setting. People are surfing. It looks stunning out here. I'm loving it. Look at this bedroom here, You have a seating area Now, I wanna show everyone It's so spacious. You have two sets of vanities. And can we talk about These open shelves. These deep fabricated sinks. Countertop design, how the lip comes up. So it has almost this like - [Mikey] Yeah. - And you have wall sconces. Mirror's nicely recessed in. Wood tones. And this is the other vanity here with pretty much the same finishes. Then you have your built-in corner tub. They used the same natural to fabricate this tub. And I love that backrest is at an angle, so you can just lean - [Mikey] Watch the surfers out there. Right now, I don't know if Enes can see. I have very sharp eyes, but there's a guy on a by a little tender and- - People are living the I can see it, even though I - [Mikey] That looks like - Without a doubt. And you get to see it from Walk-in shower super open. Rain head above. Handheld. These darker fixtures. And just a beautiful bathroom. Now, it gets better. Comes with two water closets. They're located right here. And then we have the walk-in closet here. The amount of closets, in this house is staggering. And look at all these glass fronts. Backlighting. Massive picture frame facing the views. It's impressive, you know? I can only imagine how painstaking and then finish it out and make sure all these My hat's off to the developer. - [Mikey] All the different finishes, all the different fixtures, all the different manufacturers it's a full-time job that to get all of this finished, you know? - All of it coming together, making sure that everything looks good. It's fascinating. - [Mikey] Yeah. - All right, that's it for the Now, let's go back to the hallway so we can go check out the second one. Another long hallway here. Floor-to-ceiling glass windows. Courtyard looks incredible. Can we show the onyx wall on that side? - [Mikey] So, guys, the sun We wanted to kinda finish And we're not quite used to daylight savings time being over so- - I mean, it's like 4:30 right now and sun is going down already. - [Mikey] Yeah. - By the way, this is that is located right next to so you have a nice, convenient way up to the Look at the stonework on Massive skylight above. So tasteful. And it gets better. Follow me. Another pivot door opens up to the office. You have your desk. Built-in cabinetry. Even the office comes And they even have an Which is beautiful. I'm out of words. - I didn't expect this. I feel like I'm running out of adjectives as we're doing these tours, and it's been getting so hard lately. We've been touring such good how do you keep explaining and attention to detail and how long it took the developers or the companies to build these assets? I'm truly running out of words. - [Mikey] It's a hard thing to justify week to week, you know? But it is an impressive feat, and it's something that we're you know? - Without a doubt. And it's We haven't missed an episode. We've been posting every All right, welcome to the We have the walk-in closet here. I don't wanna go into too many details because owners are currently so I wanna respect their privacy. Island is backlit. Same oak cabinetry, Now, let's go check Another king size bed. Look at the back paneling with all these different Wall sconces. These incorporated bedside tables, meaning they were fabricated Then we have the projector here. I think I forgot to mention they have a drop-down screen detail here. That's how we watch TV. But when you have a view Corner opens up. Again, drop-down These spacious balconies Seamless glass railing. And these breathtaking views. This is gorgeous. This is so special. - [Mikey] I don't think we can talk enough about how cool it is to - I feel like we have All right, follow me so we can check or the second primary bathroom. Stonework here is gorgeous. And it already looks But I can only imagine in and in depth this section is gonna look. Look how beautiful this is. - [Mikey] Yeah, that's insane. - Gorgeous. The color, lightness of the We have another fabricated Open walk-in shower And then long vanity here and they used the same as well as the back wall. I feel like throughout the day, I was so nervous to make sure that I didn't miss any of these details. I feel like the developer for this property that I And it looks stunning. I can't even imagine being able yet alone build it. So my hat's off. And let's follow this hallway. We have the water closet here. And the backlighting, it's I feel like we have never in such a significant way to their home. - Automatic toilet. That it creates such a unique contrast. - [Mikey] And all these - Yes. This is amazonite, I believe. - [Mikey] Yeah, but everything is natural, right? - Yes, correct. - [Mikey] That's wild. - Amazing, right? in itself and then like how it's crazy. - Welcome to the second closet Again, cabinetry with glass And at the end, we have this these amazing views. With that, we're done on the second floor. I'm really excited for the night tour. I feel like this property But at night, it looks even better with all the stone, backlighting, (hip lively music) (air whooshing) (fire crackling) (fire crackling) (fire crackling) All right, everyone. What a stunning property. I've never seen a home with a central courtyard like this before with a koi pond, fire Design elements of this home is so unique, it's truly one of a kind. I mean, look at the entry I'm so impressed. I'm really glad we got and share it with all of you. Big thanks to listing agents, for making this tour possible. And as always, you can find more information in the description of this video. Lastly, if you enjoyed the and we'll see you guys next week. (cool dynamic music)