- Hi, I'm Tracy LaTourrette, Colorado's First Lady Fighter Pilot. We're here at Wings Over the in Denver, Colorado. We're getting an inside look at the world's largest operating aircraft, the Stratolaunch Roc. Roc is key to expediting through testing. With the wingspan of 385 - We had started with a - What Roc is doing is - We're continuing to add complexity. - Now it's time for the mission. - If you are launching from the belly of an aircraft, you have seconds for it to work correctly. - When you're going something the airplane gets hot. - The first time you watch it take off, you can't help but feel like, - It's really a renaissance - [Engineer] Release. - This is going to be cool! It's time to go &quot;Behind the Wings&quot;! As the sun rises over the Mojave Desert, a one-of-a-kind aircraft Dual fuselages connected by a single high wing and a payload that, with each flight, is advancing the United States' hypersonic flight test capabilities. Stratolaunch named the of prey large enough to carry elephants. Roc carries the Talon-A, a that launches midair from Hypersonic flight defined by remains one of aviation's When traveling at five an aircraft's energy begins a realm where air becomes fire and the laws of physics wage - Hypersonics is not new. We've had systems flying for a long time. We had a flight back in 1959, the X-15. - Early on this Thursday morning, the B-52 carrier takes the X-15 out for its maiden powered flight. - We flew over Mach 6. And since then, we've had a Obviously, the Space Shuttle, (gentle music) We've been flying in the - Back in the 1960s, the United States was a groundbreaking with programs like the X-15. 199 flights. Over 100 of those flights But then there was a bit of a lull in this country, around the globe, in terms of advancing Now it's come back because there's lots of interesting applications. You can look of course at Obviously, there's military applications. Everyone is realizing the benefits of what hypersonic flight can do in terms of going through the atmosphere at five times the speed of sound. (rocket whooshing) A variety of countries, including ours, are pursuing that capability. - The new thing is that that we're talking about are different in that not only do they but also, they fly in The traditional hypersonic like an ICBM, intercontinental it flies hypersonically, right? It re-enters at Mach 20 or above. However, it doesn't maneuver once they re-enter the atmosphere. So the new hypersonic You can use them to change the target while they're in flight. You can potentially You can potentially retarget In terms of technology, is probably a little bit But in terms of systems I would say that the U.S. is behind. China and Russia are ahead. (rocket whooshing) In order to be able to develop we have to do a lot of testing. We have to do ground testing, or hypervelocity test tracks. (missile whooshes) But also, you wanna be 'cause flight testing is in terms of what your environment is and in terms of what you're That's the ground truth. One way to fly them is to and test it. But that's very expensive. Another approach is what It's a hypersonic testing platform. - How would you describe this - It's really a renaissance Our hypersonic program of great strides and quickly. So we've done a number of flights now proving out various aspects of the system. We can get through some of the as you get through the Carrier aircraft Roc continues And now we're continuing We're going to higher altitudes. We're doing more complex onboard our hypersonic vehicle. And what that allows us to do is push to the outer Today, we can go Mach 3. Tomorrow, we can go Mach 6. We can go anywhere in between. - Why are we even testing in hypersonics? What's it all about? - Our goal in testing in hypersonics is to create certainty that we are developing. We have a great ground but they are not quite the Still a lot that we're in terms of the thermal accelerations, control of the vehicle. And because of that, we in the flight environment to call upon a hypersonic flight system, you wanna know it works. The secret sauce for us, it's the ability through reusability to have a high flight cadence. The Pentagon has put out a call to do hypersonic flight It's really been exciting seeing Roc from its midconstruction days So a lot of credit to the Scaled Composites, who actually built and flew Roc for the first time. - Before we see this jet in action, let's look at why it was produced and what it took to turn Whoa! Are you kidding me? Scott, I've seen a lot but this design idea is Tell me about that initial team. - So it really was a great team. It was assembled at Scaled Composites who collected engineers, all with an ambition to build They approached the problem of, how do we fly? So this airplane started as a and Burt had hundreds And it took a couple years to, &quot;Hey, now we're actually really gonna go build this airplane.&quot; - The first challenge was to an aircraft that actually flies. Shauntel, you've been here longer than this gigantic hangar has been here. Take us back to the early days. - The first thing they had This is actually the largest So it was kind of an engineering feat just to design the hangar The first thing they did of scaffolding and started the spars. So the first thing was the spar that went from wing tip to wing tip. A lot of people think it's It's not. It's one giant wing that goes all the way through the two fuselages. They built the fuselages around the wing. So it was kinda cool to come in and the wing would just And then they came in and the It still takes my breath - Scott, what were some of the thoughts that went into coming up with - You have a ton of requirements. And the one key requirement was to carry and drop a 500,000-pound rocket. So the original mission for the airplane was satellite launching. So a 550,000-pound rocket, fly 1,000 miles away, launch and then fly back to Mojave. When you look at other you know, they typically all carry a mass. Passenger airplanes carry kinda the center of the plane. When you drop the mass in flight, you naturally wanna put so that when you drop it, or pitch or maneuver, right? So that drives a mass at - Scott, this is the Is there another wing like - No, this is the only one. In fact, most everything on this airplane, this is the only one of. So it really is a typical airplane wing. It's made of I-beams. An I-beam's got a web, a Our center portion of our wing Some of the caps are as and 265 feet long. And eventually, we get to ailerons. There's 12 ailerons on the They're all hydraulically driven. And on top of 12 ailerons, 28 actuators on the flaps. We didn't wanna invent anything. So the actuators on the flaps are actually the Boeing - Here we are at the tail, but the tail is the way over there, too. Why on Earth are these - If you're designing an airplane, you need to know how much If you connect the tails, now you need to decide how versus the wing, and it that takes longer to solve. The wing takes all the twist. Taking the twist through the wing is a fairly standard problem to solve. - Easier to build, probably easier to fly, but still one of the most - It's a crazy airplane. Let's go look at the rest. - All right, let's go. Scott, I thought you said - I am at the cockpit! - How do you go from those ideas on paper to this incredible airplane - So the requirements grew to build a 385-foot wingspan airplane with six engines, two fuselages. That was a lot of invention. After that, we tried to So we didn't wanna We didn't wanna invent new We tried to focus on how to - Scott, this airplane looks very unique, but on closer look, a lot of - When we laid out the program, need engines, hydraulics, landing gear, we took a look and said, We could make our own specs And really, a lot of the 747-400 parts, such as engines, pylons, landing gear, really kinda fit our bill pretty good. - Across the way from Stratolaunch is the Mojave Air &amp; Space Port boneyard. Stratolaunch incorporated of aircraft in the design of Roc. Well, they brought some to the boneyard. - To build this airplane, we bought two United 747-400s, and then let a team of engineers loose, and said, &quot;What do you want?&quot; We use the transparency, A lot of flight control It doesn't reuse the 747 as an airplane, but it reuses a lot of that are used on the 7-4, There's business jet There's custom stuff. What we tried to do is not make new when we could buy something And that both led us to a much lower cost as well as a much We're just putting less We're reusing. - One 747 wasn't big enough, so you needed to bring in I mean, we're looking at, - We bought two airplanes. We got eight engines, So it uses six engines. They're 56,000 pounds of thrust a piece, which is the highest thrust airplane. - So you take the parts you and just ship the extras to the boneyard? - It feels wrong to take but we got a lot of parts out of 'em and they went off to the - So Roc was built, and then you face your next big challenge, getting it outside and airborne. Talk to me about some of those challenges. - There's a few steps to get there. We of course went through a bunch of engine runs and taxi testing, and there was a whole bunch of testing that we had to do before we flew. It's different than any The stance of the gear is like 95 feet, so we can't really go The pad was kinda built And we kinda realized right away it was gonna be kinda difficult to tow. Instead of using one tug that steers to control the movement of and they steer by speeding The very first time it rolled out, it was just an amazing experience. - So Scaled had a motto of The first time the airplane was for a fuel test. That meant the structure other teams had to get their to support that test. - What kinda milestones - So one of the big milestones And we learned a ton just going 20 knots. And then we built up to 30 and 40 and a little over 100 at some Even getting to a point on the runway where we intended to go down the runway with the main gear on the and that was the first time we started to see aerodynamic How effective is the elevator? So after we made it ending at high-speed taxi, - This is the part I've been waiting for! Let's see this thing fly. - The engineers do all their analysis and they say it's gonna be okay, but the first time you watch it take off, you can't help but feel like, We're really excited There might be a little bit of nervousness of just it better go good. - [Pilot] Air speed's increasing. Okay, rotate to 10 degrees. - The takeoff, a lot I care a lot more about the landings 'cause that's the more difficult process. (airplane whooshing) - First flight was The whole purpose to fly the airplane was to get enough handling qualities data to let the pilots fly it enough so they had the confidence to land. - The landing was where We had it on the ground in Mojave. That first flight was a great day. - After it landed, it was that we had started with a - You'd come so far, but now Dave, you're the Senior Test Pilot here. What does that job look like? - Job involves working with and its payload airborne Obviously, flying the airplane, but also designing the tests, making sure we can do it safely. - There's nothing ordinary Can you give us a little - It's a twin-fuselage airplane. We're in the right fuselage. The flight controls are This is a yoke out of a 747. We do have six throttles, but normally have them all in your hand. So unless there's something it acts like one throttle. It does not have any so someone has to be - When you're flying Roc, I mean, it's an incredible aircraft, but you're not just flying Roc. You have a whole nother aircraft out there in the centerline. You have Talon. What does that look like - It's very choreographed to get both aircraft off. Once we're airborne, we've over the water off the and then we climb up and launch Talon. - To get a better sense of what it's like to fly Roc on a hypersonic test mission, we flew the Roc simulator. - All right, we're gonna do takeoff. Tracy's gonna fly it. So then you can start - Six throttles, a little - So takeoff's pretty conventional. We track down the right-hand All right, we're goin'. - She's a beast. - Rotate speed where we get We climb out about 155. We cruise around about 160 to 170. Landing speed's usually around 130. So we would be climbing out to fly out over the ocean to launch Talon. (music plays) - This is a handful of aircraft to fly. And this isn't even the coolest part. Flying the world's largest jet, dropping a Talon that's (Talon whooshing) coming back and landing, (music continues) You're able to take such a complex design and make it super friendly for the pilot. I climb in the cockpit and and I don't know I have all those flaps and all those ailerons. It just flies nice so I - This is a model of the rocket-powered hypersonic robot plane. It is gonna allow us to repeatedly and reliably do hypersonic testing. It's gonna get launched off of Roc, zoom out over the range, come back in after the rocket motor uses and then we will rinse - So this Talon is a lot faster than the T-38 Talon I flew Can you walk us around? - Sure, I'd love to. So here at the nose, you can see that it's made These are very similar to the tiles that were on the bottom 'cause this is one of the When you're going something the airplane gets hot. As we go further back, more access panels where we can store payloads or do the maintenance work we need to do to get it ready for its next flight. This white surface is a to keep the structure inside that it doesn't have any issues. But back here is cooler than the nose where we have the hard tiles. We can also put things at the tail end on the control surfaces. And they're made out of called Inconel, and those get very hot 'cause they stick out in the airflow. And so depending on maybe you wanna test a thermal insulation or maybe you wanna test something that gets really, really hot and see how it responds as a material. - So how do the flight controls work on this aircraft without a pilot? - So the aircraft is fully autonomous. We've developed a flight control system in autopilot, if you will, that we program to guide the airplane After the engine is extinguished, the aircraft will glide back in and land like any other - What on Earth is powerful enough to get us up to that speed? - Let's go take a look at the tail. - All right. - The rocket motor starts about here where the tail of the aircraft flares out, and it's only that big. It's a 5,000-pound thrust rocket motor from our partner, Ursa Major. It's reusable. And we run it off and liquid oxygen. - At Ursa Major in Berthoud, Colorado, the rocket engines that power the Talon-A are designed, built, and tested. The engine that powers the There's a lot of power Is this really it? Is this the Hadley? - This is a Hadley just like the one that flew at Stratolaunch. So we're standing in the assembly line for our Hadley engine. This was our first product. This is actually the product that took us from space to hypersonics. While this is the assembly line, this is where all of the we have engineers that are designing or looking at test data. We have, about 100 yards from us, a facility where the engines are tested. We actually fire every engine - Talon-A is designed to be reusable, hence the Hadley rocket engine is also designed to be reusable. How does the reliability play in? - We think about reliability of an engine kind of in two paths. One is, can the engine And Hadley was designed for more missions than any other in large part because hypersonic missions like Stratolaunch need a reusable engine. But reliability also means how safe and usable is the engine. And on a vehicle like Talon you require a high level of reliability to ensure just safety and handling is part of the design as well. - What's so significant about being able to finally test regularly in the air? - You learn a lot about your Whether you are launching from the ground, you're in vacuum of space, you learn a tremendous amount. (rocket whooshing) The more you fly, the the more you understand on the ground versus With this hypersonic launching from the air Liquid rocket engine likes very stable when it ignites. So igniting on a hypersonic vehicle after its dropped from a carrier aircraft should help improve hypersonic engines. It should help improve our There are two big differentiators to what Stratolaunch is doing Roc acts as a launch platform If you think back to the X-15, America's first kind there was a pilot in it. It was an extremely kind of tenuous and dangerous flight operation. Talon is unpiloted, it's which is a really big deal in hypersonics, where if the purpose is of flight testing, driving down cost with reusability will be transformative. - Your team poured all this time, effort, and energy into diligently preparing for this very first launch. - Any first test flight, You expect the priority of not a total mission success. If you are launching a hypersonic vehicle from the belly of an aircraft, you have seconds for it to work correctly. So you need to really understand how the vehicle interacts with the engine, and ensure that everything to maneuverability is going - There is a lot that There's a lot that happens to launch day to prepare both vehicles. Launch day, we come in very early. We have a briefing. We have test cards, or procedures, that are on our kneeboard, The air crew go out. The airplane starts pre-flighting. The mission control room and they start setting up. - The Talon program, we've We did a lot of practicing, Everybody knows exactly their place. We're very focused on what we're doing. We all know what we need to do, and it's a very professional - So much prep goes into launch day. What's it like here in mission control? - The team is ready, they're but they understand what they need to do to enable this moment. There's a lot of nervousness, but then also has that natural and everyone is really understanding And so this team is focused on the data, making sure that everything and our release. (airplane whooshing) - [Pilot] System one, armed. Looking for data. - Good data. - It's a big team. We take off. We go fly out to the range. The control room's watching that we can't see in the cockpit. They're kind of responsible We're responsible for putting the airplane where it needs to be. And if everything goes right, we'll launch Talon and have it go Mach 5. - [Pilot] Five, four, three. [Engineer] Release. (air whooshing) - When the flight test engineer triggers the explosive bolts, - [Mission Control] Good release. - Watching it actually - All the way, baby. There it is! (crew applauding and cheering) - All of us just burst into applause because it's just you can't contain it. - [Pilot] Ignition. - Everyone looks forward but to actually see the engine light, to see the vehicle that moment was probably in our company's history. Obviously, what Roc is doing is transformational for flight testing. It takes up what a launch for a hypersonic flight vehicle, And with more capable, you just start to see this new era of vehicles be flown, reused. Much more of a daily operation than what space has been in the past. - By using the Talon-A, you can test components without having to build and test it. By testing these components, you can improve the design And by the time you you've already tested under the actual hypersonic conditions, so you have a higher - From the original design on a napkin to now creating this operational aircraft that plays a major role where do we go from here? - Every flight we do, We don't know exactly but we are confident we are gonna continue to push for a body of knowledge - There is a lot to learn. Doing this autonomously, building up that high flight cadence. There's just a lot of areas still to explore in hypersonic flight. - It's an evolutionary process. And we've learned a lot. We know a lot. Now it's a matter of just implementing and improving our understanding and vehicles that meet In the long term, we're to develop these unmanned Really long term, potentially - As hypersonic flight becomes repeatable flight testing in better understanding and advancing this We'll see you next time (music plays) (music continues) (music slowly fades)