I feel very strongly that everyone can change. And that if you don't have a hold of the steering wheel then you're going to change because of what other people do. And if you want to be freer, I wanted to be freer, then you have to take more control, more responsibility, for how I am in the world. I'm lucky that I met my wife when I was 19 years old. On my wedding day I was standing in line with my parents on either side of me waiting to walk down the aisle. And the last thing my mother said to me was, 'I still can't understand why she would marry you.' Which is my mother - I understand her perspective. And the sad thing was, I agreed with her. But I'm not that same person anymore. My childhood is almost all gone. I have almost no memories of it. I learned later on in my life that that's not an unusual reaction to the trauma that I grew up in. My father was a very depressed, angry, abusive man. And he was like that every day. So in some ways he really was a negative figure for me. I had a clear view of how I didn't want to live my life, what kind of person I didn't want to be. In the early 80's I was in a very depressed and angry place. And my natural instinct when I felt attacked or talked down to was to attack, verbally. After a period of a lot of marital conflict and being what I now look back at as a less-than-ideal father, my wife said to me, 'You know you're acting just like your father.' And I was crushed. I was crushed enough that I went to a therapist, which I had no intention of doing because I could do everything myself. After he learned my story, he said 'You think you're a failure.' 'And I think you're a great success.' 'And you don't know it yet.' Brings tears to me. I said to my family, 'I understand I've made mistakes and bad judgements.' 'But I'm going to do my best to be the best father' 'and the best husband that I'm capable of.' And that was in 1981. So that's a very long time ago. And I've tried since then to do that... and that's all I could do... to try to be the person that I wanted to be in the world. So I've had a lot of transformations in my life. And I've been lucky enough to be... I don't know if the word is 'brave'... maybe it's brave enough to try to step out from these neurotic reactions and try to live without them. To try to be more and more vulnerable. One of my life goals has always been since then, to be more and more vulnerable, to be more and more open, to be more and more brave that I can handle everything. And that I could let my emotions come forth. Even though it was very scary early on because I had closed everything in. I wanted to live a life with all my emotions. I wanted to live a big life. That's what letting yourself be vulnerable meant to me. We're born with all these emotions, with all these feelings, and to me, letting yourself be fully involved with the way one can interact with the world, that's being human. 'I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately,' 'to front only the essential facts of life,' 'and see if I could not learn what it had to teach,' 'and not, when I came to die,' 'discover that I had not lived.' That's Henry David Thoreau. I feel very much the same way. Not only to feel like I've lived my life fully but also the role of the woods, the role of being in nature, the role of being aware of how everything interrelates to everything else. That awareness is crucial for my equanimity and to encourage me in my path. It always has been. 'Only birds sing the music of heaven in this world.' That's a quote that a poet friend of mine sent me when she saw my photographs. Well, I do think that birds sing the music of heaven in this world. But I don't think it's only birds. I think the music of heaven is everywhere... if you listen, if you watch, if you let yourself be quiet enough inside that you can see and hear. It's everywhere. It's all there. But it's only there if you have an intention to see it.