One...two...three Hi everyone and welcome back to my channel it's been a little while since my last that I could fully focus on a project that I've been moving into my new art studio and after would be a piece of cake but I would say that First I had to move out all my stuff stuff into the barn of my new art studio since I Look at my new couch! It's a cloud! and in the beginning of July the house finally Something I know a lot of you had been asking about. The paint on the house was in really bad shape so it needed to be repainted but thankfully I didn't do painters and they did such an amazing job and Yeah it looks really nice And then I spent the make tables and workbenches for different Because during the whole renovation I was be in here and put up furniture and all my And Johan was helping me to build all the both in my office and in my art studio Hey Johan Hey you're here today because you're gonna Yeah I will help you That's so kind of you. These boards Or your desk I think I can do a lot but desks that's not my thing. Yeah we will see how it goes. You're good at that. I don't know You have a very smart brain. And Nanook is helping me with the garden. he thought it was a lot of weeds growing here wow you're doing a great job Nanook, thank you Nanook, have you seen what a nice desk? the desk in my office became exactly what I hoped it with some hard wax oil to protect it from oh my God Damn... as you can see I did the same thing with all the It was a lot of work but I really like the look of it so this journey with my new art studio this year you and to make it just the way I dreamed of so I took my time to work on every single detail and to and I really enjoyed the process in creating It was such a rewarding feeling to see how the house came Hey Johan Hey what are you doing? Just... swimming... You weirdo it's just so beautiful... it's like a The light...the... Oops. Hey I'm so happy you're here with me Nanook. Helping me moving in. You're a part of this. And your hair is all over the painted walls. Your hair is everywhere. Everywhere That's kind of cute when all the furniture was in place it moving in all my stuff. and I had almost forgot how much stuff I have since everything had been and I took my time for this as well I wanted things that I didn't need anymore to really be And the day when I got to move in my computer into Hey everybody! Welcome to a rainy Sweden. I've been dreaming so many times of the day when I was and I always thought that it would be like sunny we have had rain every day for many weeks now so this is how it is. We gotta do the best of it, right? so about 8 months ago I stood here and it was full winter and I was this house that I bought that I was just about hello everybody and welcome to my own place. This little house is going to be home for my creative soul. I know this house needs a pour my love on this house I'm gonna make it so Now I'm standing here and it's finished! This week is the very first week that I've got to work from here I'm still a bit up in the clouds this is true and yeah maybe I also feel like that I feel... all the gratitude and yeah I feel being in love that's how I how I feel right now yeah we gotta go inside soon. What was I gonna say? I wrote some notes... sometimes I have to do that when I do talking or to you because I otherwise I don't I feel so stupid. the first thing the first thing I wrote up on this rainy but I don't need to tell you that, I don't know if there was anything more to say. I'm not hundred percent finished with the house yet I have some small artworks that I want to hang up on the walls and um but overall it's finished and it became I just feel so much love for this house and the energy inside of it. I I don't know how it happened, it became so much more beautiful than I could ever dream of it was a lot I can for these months and now I really feel like talking in the rain let's do the thing you're so I will now give you a full tour footage that are recorded in the winter so this is the porch and in here there is a new front door into the that covered the floor and then I just that the blue color is a bit cute so and then we enter into the house but if you don't stop me right now and now welcome into the kitchen which I Tadaa...here we have the cozy little kitchen. as you can see there's been a lot of work done in here. And it really turned out into and this fire stove is not only really beautiful in the winter I will be able to heat up and then there is a small room next to the is how it looked like before. in here we have just like a little room, it was like a bedroom It looks like this. and now it looks like this so in here I have a lot of space for all photography and I also have a bunch of my own And of course a lot of good storage for all and this room is also where the whole heating system is located that is connected The system is amazing but it looks horrible so I covered it And the bathroom is the only room where I haven't done this is how it looked like before now it looks like this I've just put in a new I guess this room should have needed some when I come in here it reminds me of the so I will keep it like this for now. and now it's time to show you my office or my studio but first let's take a look at the beginning. in here is the living room, this is where I'm gonna have my desk with my computer and yeah where I'm When I renovated this room I wanted to create an the soft night sky in June and the fluffy clouds and it became exactly that. when I enter this room I feel like I get a warm big hug and that all the it's a very calm and loving energy in here it I put a lot of thought into the things that things I love in life and the things that brings that I will share online will be created from this create my songs and anything that I share with you I create something have a huge effect on the So that's a part of why I've put so It's like a sacred place to me. things that do not exist yet will be created in here and I wish to create things that carry a beautiful and now it's time to go upstairs where the biggest renovations and changes I actually don't think I can find the right words It's just like coming up to another dimension. When I got the idea to make the similar to this but I could never imagine the very first scene that I ever filmed in this stood here and it was really cold in here because Hello This is my very first day in my new little house. And this here...is going to be my future art studio. This wall is gonna be deleted it's just uh like a attic you know what to say it's crazy to think that it's actually the same house. The carpenters Mats and Peter it's a dream coming true to have a beautiful space much room for storage and for all my stuff so and I also have a beautiful little go out here to take a little break and then I'm gonna show you the last room the art studio which was a bedroom before. The room in here which also was like a bedroom but I'm going to have this also for all my than you can imagine all the frames and all the my painting so it's gonna be wonderful to have And I think even this room became so beautiful it almost hurts. and as I said I will use this room for my painting as well. If you've been on this channel for a while pigments from nature materials and it makes it and next to this room I have another tiny and this door leads to a room that is not So now you have seen the What do you think about it? I would love to hear your thoughts on it in the comment I love it. I love it, I love it, I love it... this has been a dream of mine for over 10 years one of the best things that have ever happened of an art studio or a creative space like this whether you're an artist or not I believe every single person on this planet is a creator of some able to connect to that part of ourselves where we We need to disconnect from all that noise around us. Whether it's a whole house, or a room or a little corner in an apartment or even just a so important especially if you feel the longing I am so deeply grateful that I got to fulfill this dream of having my own art studio. It was a long journey for sure. After years of moving around and squeezing into all I'm finally home Cheers! and I want to thank all of you for being with all your positive feedback and loving support I've really enjoyed sharing this journey and other kinds of videos than me renovating a I feel very ready for a new chapter now . now I will spend some time settling down in my I will also try to be outside in nature as much before the colder weather arrives. Wherever you are in the world I send you all my love and lots of positive vibes from the Swedish Take care and I see you soon again.