[jazz music plays] [Peter] Jimmy, you're doing ding repair? -Yes, I've been doing it a long time. -You're fishing too? Lobsterman, seabass trapping, -Here's the shop [Peter] All right, so today -Cruise all around the Hamptons today. [Jimmy] All right, -To the dumps? The dump is really cool I love the dump. If you ever need anything For instance if the cord they throw it to the dumps. You know, it's a nice one, you put a new cord in it God knows what could be in here. -Look at the grills. Look at all the grills. [Jimmy] Jesus Christ. Not your typical Hamptons video [Peter] Look at that, that's almost like Yeah, it's a nice grill. Who knows? -There's your lawnmower right there. Look. Who knows? Interesting, -You remember the old-style lawnmower? Cool, huh? I'm not taking it. I'm trying to lessen my load of junk. [Peter] What are you putting Old fish. [grunts] [Spanish] [Jimmy] All right, that's it. So with the Hamptons, we're gonna learn what they're all about Most people just think It's true. -But there's a big local population Yeah, you probably heard this term, &quot;Montauk's a little drinking town It's always been a fishing community. Real estate was -When you say back then, when was that? And Carl Fisher had visions into another Miami Beach. -Montauk? He started developing the property and I think he died broke. But my grandparents and they bought a couple homes for I think I mighta told ya, -Wow. Seven grand a piece and they would And when I was old enough They would put me and obviously told the conductors and when the train stopped, it was the end of the road. Loved it. It was spectacular out here back then. -See that big building? They call it the White Elephant. He built that and had and they would pick &quot;I want it from there to there, -When did you move here full time? -Twenty-two, twenty-three. The tribe of surfers back in the day. We came out for one reason but we had to find a way to live. I became a fisherman, that was my job. Lot of friends became carpenters, and very successful fisherman. And right next to this dirt lot used to be, we call it the trailer park, and back in the day when it was first open And back in the day -Like see that little one right there? That's an original trailer that went for back in the late '70s. Now they built them up, and a trailer on the water on the first row sold for... -You ready? 3 Million! [laughs] -That's insane. -Yeah, we can actually walk in there. [Peter] So fair to say, the world's -[laughs] Yeah, I guess. -Crazy though, huh? -That's wild. [Jimmy] So what happened, -We can walk down to the ocean here. I don't know which one it was. So what happened was it was like, So it was a ripple effect. It was right after COVID They're paying that much money, we can charge f*cking $5 for a Everything went up, Is it because people came out They moved out here, right? -Yeah, yeah. [waves crashing] This is a premier surf spot. [Peter] Do you live out here? -I have a trailer. -Which one went for 3 million? Which one of these trailers -I think it was one of these on the front. -Might have been that one. I rent mine just for August The one next to the yellow one. 3 million bucks. -I think it was actually the one -Really? -Oh, that's definitely worth 3 million. [Jimmy laughs] [Jimmy] So this was all tents. It was all tents, -It was all dirt, and surf bums, Once the celebrities or wealthier people Jimmy Buffett, And it's good, For after they go surfing, and take a shower, Go back to the regular home. -Does that bum you out as a local? More power to 'em. -So I guess it depends who you talk to but there's not a real big divide and the old school locals or is there? There is negativity. Some people are really upset -Right. -Who cares? These people worked hard, If I was in that position Why not? The only difference is that the locals Where these people, they just come out here It's kind of like, who's luckier? Us or them? We are. [waves crashing] I used to own a house but I got divorced My wife sold it and I got what was left over. Which I was happy, and I took that money, but I'll never be able Never. -So you rent a place right now? The rents are like cuckoo. -Okay, what's an example? $5,000 a month. Can't even find a place to live. But also what's happened, lot of Latinos come out here, They can't afford the rent living in one house. And they can afford to pay, and they send their money back and they work hard. So a lot of the homes... are multi-family homes. Which is against the law I couldn't even venture a guess Uh-oh. -You okay? -Be careful. [man] You look like a guy, -Never leave home without it. Hey no offense, but now he has no soul. [laughing] [Jimmy] There you go. You can throw it in the back of my truck. -Just cut this. Put it in my truck -I'm not gonna litter. -He said you can. Your poor dog's freezing to death. -Want that too? -[laughing] -Thank you. [Jimmy chuckles] -You know Julian Schnabel? Famous artist, producer, director. He lives down there. I fix all his boards too. Real nice guy. Real down to earth guy. And the other thing about Montauk is that there are a lot of celebrities The locals, they don't give a sh*t. -Okay, so it's not a super flashy -Some people do. No it's very low, low key out here. You know, the people want to blend in. If celebrities come out here to be No one really gives a sh*t. You're a nice person, You're not, you get treated And this is Surf Break Hoffman's. Michael Hoffman, whoever that is. Some wealthy dude. -It's all grapes in here. -It's really cool. Oh wow, beautiful. -I'm not driving up here because it's private property but we used to go hunting all back here. Ducks go in this. Right in there. -You would hunt out here as a kid? Puddle jumper, we call it. This is the first cattle ranch in America. This ranch right here. -Montauk? &quot;Oldest cattle ranch in the USA -Before America. -Before America. Yeah, that's when this place-- Cops, cops... -It's still operating? And there's all these buildings. -America's freakin' great. I fully realized after living abroad -Wow, 85 countries? Seen a fair amount and this time -You know who commissioned that? George Washington. This is the end of Long Island. This is really, really, really cool. Do I look older than 60? No. Yes I do. Don't lie to me. -I don't think so. Senior citizens, they make me show my ID. -Senior citizen. 'Cause I'm from New York or just old? It's like that two-bit actor once said, [Peter] How old do you think he is? -I stopped guessing a long time ago. That's a safe answer. I had someone pull up I swear they were I was like, &quot;Pfft, you're kidding.&quot; Keep up the good work. -Lotta ticks out here? Good. [Jimmy] In World War II all around here. Big cannons. See the old radar? -Oh, yeah. I'm not getting too close. Lot of ship wrecks along this coast. The pirates would... Or the local people... Because the light house has been here and they would put They would pretend and they would think and it's called the false point. So they would come in, and run aground, -I didn't expect to see this at all here Nature like this, I had no clue. -It's spectacular. [wind blowing and waves crashing] [Jimmy] This is called Downtown. -What was all of this? [Jimmy] That's a bowling alley I think. [Peter] Look at that one, [Jimmy chuckles] [Peter] So this is just all -Yeah. -Waiting for the Soviets? -Okay. -So you're thinking World War II. The Germans, the U-boats -Yeah. Beautiful forest. -Wasn't forest back in the day. There's the radar tower. -Okay, yeah, [Jimmy] When I was younger and every time that thing went around So you'd be watching TV and every, You get a little zap from the radar tower. It was pretty wild. [Peter] I bet a lot of people living Not a clue. They don't know about this. It's an art gallery now You'd get your tickets in there -This is how you'd come in -Yeah. -Grandparents would pick you up? Right there. Great place to grow up. Here's the manor. [Peter] Montauk Manor, haunted the say? [Jimmy] You believe in ghosts? -I believe in spirits, sure. [Jimmy] I think I see them See these pfft... These things. I don't know what the f*ck they are. I don't discount anything. You know like Frank Zappa said, &quot;Mind is like a parachute, -Very true. As long as I've been coming out here -So still pulling a lot of fish. Hey Gavin, how the hell are ya? -What's going on? It's high tide here. -I see that. How's fishing? Just starting to show up. -It's f*ckin' late ain't it? -Been an off year, that's for sure. -Always something. -All right, good seeing ya. This dock has been here for f*ckin' ever. Been rebuilt a bunch of times. -You know all these guys? They are working their asses off. We have a saying, &quot;What would you do You go, &quot;I'd keep fishing [Peter chuckles] Okay. So this is a jetty. Then they blew that up, that was this bit I think maybe even sooner. And then this became salt water -And then you have the yachts over here. These are all party boats, Take people out for hire over there. This guy, guy's named Anthony, they fish off shore lobsters and they take watches going out. One guy steers the other guy is asleep. -And they have, see these coolers? Had the coolers all sacked up and the handle broke, and he didn't have And he went over the stern. Went off the boat. Boat kept on f*cking going. The guy, the other captain was asleep. He's f*cking floating, Gone... Just gone. And he was treading water -See those poly balls, those balls? He found a lobster buoy out there and took his boots off You know, with air in 'em, and he was able to float. And they found him. It was a miracle. Finally a good story, somebody lived. [Jimmy] Now this is my old None of this was here what we would do... They had the vacancy and no vacancy [Peter giggles] I grew up in this house. -This one? -See these trees? No trees, all beach. -Great place to grow up, yeah? We used to spend every day You can't even see it. And we used to walk down the beach Beach bums. -So what's a place like this here? -It'd be a million bucks. There ain't nothing And they call this liesurama. Mister whoever did the building, built on every one of these lots, Trying to develop the area, and they were called liesuramas. They were like 8,000 bucks Had the refrigerator, -Cool, right? -That is cool. -They had the mattress and everything? Everything. There's another one. See, they had the little... That's a real one. -So from eight grand to a million? This is affordable housing. -What town are we in? Amagansett -Okay, so this is your place? It's affordable housing. In other words, -Okay. -And the criteria, I think it starts, is $32,000 -Okay. -And I'm right in the middle of it. -So this is super important If I didn't have this It's the only solution. This is 36 units, they just built -Who's building it? Is it the state? A developer and he's in coordination I'm sure they get some sort of subsidies. -Yeah. I don't know how they figure it out That's for sure. He's not doing that of his good will. He's working to make money, Now we're coming into Now these are really expensive homes. Not as expensive as we're gonna see. I mean some of these homes don't even -So there's still a lot of open land. I don't know whose house that is. That might be, and don't quote me on this, He's got ten acres he's trying to sell. -That's a nice place, wow. -He was asking 26, See you used to be able to see I'm talking big money. There's some nice homes around here. -This is beautiful. -Busy hot summer day this is packed, huh? Look at that place. Look at these places, geez. -I'm Kevin Buzz. Nice to meet you. Get back to work. -I'm just chilling. Way down the street. Yeah, he's probably like I think that's his. -Seinfeld's way down there? Okay, they come out -There's a whole assortment of 'em. You got who knows [Jimmy] Pretty crazy, huh? That guy founded the bar code. [laughs] -He did? -You grew up here too? Played sports at East Hampton High School. -Saw this place change. -I'm a dropout, I left. -You make much more money, smart move. -Hell with it. -I'll be okay. So you said a lot of change -Yeah. Can't imagine what you've seen. Oh, God. You know, it's COVID. Everyone came out from New York City. All those plots you never thought Bought up for $500,000, Easily. Do you remember going to the grocery -No meat, nothing. People were coming out here They would go to P.C. Richard's, And then go to IGA and buy all the chicken. Everything. -Island population quadrupled, you know? It was crazy. You want to check out the lifeguard area? -Yeah, let's go. Are you cool. -Okay, so that's a true old school... -You know? The bubs that kinda got -What are the bubs? The fisherman, you know? I don't know if he's a fisherman, -He was. And he surfs or he used to go Yeah, a lot of guys in Montauk do that. Okay, so this is -Yeah, this is the day to day. Not much going on, no one on the beach. That's Glen, that's Harry. So Kev, you grew up here, do you want I wanna stay, you know? It's, one, you look at this, -Yeah. -Winter's pretty tough here. It's cold. It's that New England humid but the money's here to be made and if you just show up, things are gonna happen, you know? -Okay, what's happening for you? Well one, this is the best job ever. Private life-guarding, -Okay You get in with that, and that's just your summer gig. If you pick up another job In the winter you pick up a trade, You just gotta be creative So it's definitely possible Yeah, this is the man. -So these guys -Yeah, oh yeah. -How are the surf lessons going? -Good. -Yeah. -Okay, how old are you guys? Younger 20s? -21. -Sweet, so living your life, Totally, it's a great place to grow up. -Okay, so this is gonna but a lot of people live online through what they see So they think a lot of young men, in the beautiful nature. On computers all the time. You guys are sort of disproving that myth. Yeah. If you're on your phone all the time how are you not gonna be depressed? It's like you're either looking at tons of things better When you put the phone down, There's so much to do. There's just so much to do. Also if that's your reality, You're just watching You're not actually getting It's really important to do stuff yourself 'cause finishing goals, even if it's just -Making shirts, doing your thing. -You just feel better. -Do you guys have a good group of friends? Ryan's hiding somewhere. The sickest crew in reality. Yeah, honestly. -It's amazing. And all of our dads grew up so it's like we're like -Do you have surfer dads? Surfer, sports, Badass dudes. -So you're continuing the legacy? It's funny, he was the arch nemesis We grew up wrestling each other. Yeah, our parents wrestled -Who's winning? --Back in the day he'd hold me down. Punching me, you know? You're a little more jacked I'm just cold, I look all pumped-up, -This is Frankie and Bruce. And my Grandpa Ray opened up the first -Oh, sweet. What's Big House? Big House is a little... We're in the Hamptons. It's full of big houses and there is There was a small house. It was like the big house for the time, -So it's a little play on words. -We'd say go to the big house. It's a horseshoe crab. Lots of people know what they are -People like it, you know? This is one of our bosses here, -So you're managing this motley crew? The surf team. -I'm the surf team manager. So Big House is a lifestyle brand. It's about being in the water and basically the freedom -Are you guys selling this? Okay, I like it. So link down below, guys, -We'll get some Big House. It's clean. Do you know Jimmy from Montauk? -Of course, Jim Gingrich? -Jimmy and I are making a video together. We want to preserve this lifestyle. Keep it pure and keep it clean. Is there a problem Well Georgica Pond is completely trashed. Yeah. All these very wealthy people who -Fertilizers. Herbicides, pesticides. It's nice to kill ticks and everything but all that seeps into the pond and they open the cut and it goes You can't swim, you can't... It's like toxic algae blooms. -How many houses are doing this? It's every house around the pond. It's the new Hamptons yard. It's a big nice green lawn There is no diversity in what... You look around, you look at all these. There's wildflowers It is so biodiverse here all those corners of land, And they clear-cut the whole thing. All these old cedars. The wildflower meadows, clear cut 'em. -So is there a big divide between and those that are here full-time? What's your take on that? I feel like a lot of them are on our side. They came out here 'cause they liked it. -Now even they're seeing the change. There's no big hotels. It's not Atlantic City, you know? There are rules keeping it this way. There's no fast food chains. It's really... -They do respect the locals, and they need to be educated. It really is just awareness. It is awareness and there are a few who harvest the pine needle and know you can eat the rosehips and actually are true Long Island natives. And they actually have a relationship And most of the locals but it starts with those who care You don't need a golf course or your back yard. -Plant some native species. And use pesticides that aren't toxic. Build In Kind East Hampton She learned all the zoning code to start calling out the mass I'm talking you're putting on a quarter acre Then it's like two people -But they drive a Tesla. But they drive a Tesla, so they care. -[all laughing] -A $20 million house on the beach, It's heated and cooled all year. Then there's kids like us and we're not gonna be able unless we really do something big. -Big House! [Peter] The merch line! We really want to be able to and live here. We help each other, you know? -We take these kids surfing. Charlie, -Second. [all laughing] He loves it and we're healing because all these kids are on screens and we're structuring weekends, summers, getting in the water. Building a love for the ocean, you know? So then they... -Yeah, it is. They're not anxious. Once they have a love for the ocean to protect it That's the next level. Then the next generation knows, It's like passing on. These kids are in junior lifeguard [Peter] The torch is being passed We've had it since 2021 now. At two mile, this is our spot. -There's a lot of responsibility in that. And we have a sick group of people Honestly just to hang out with us. It's like Apocalypse Now and you're at the last outpost. There's no beaches. -Hero's journey every day. We're in control of two mile that way, There's nothing so if something we're the people they call. We follow our dreams. Dream is to be immersed in the ocean -That's the initiative for the non-profit. -I know a ding repair guy. We have the best part of it. -All right, guys. -Great to meet you. Really cool guys as you can see. Good tribe. Is it great to see the next gen like this? -Good kids, huh? See, those are real surfers. Those guys are stoked. Now we're gonna see some more sh*t. [laughs] More homes... cool. Good stuff, Jimmy. -What else am I gonna do? -Little break from me. -So this East Hampton area... Gets wealthier even? -Wealth. There's rich and there's wealth. -Yeah. -They have their events, and it's their lifestyle I guess. Me, I don't want to be seen. -You like it simple, Jimmy? But you can remove yourself away. I mean if I had tons and tons of money would I live here? Nope. No way I'd live here. I'd live in Montauk -It's like, what's it called? Rodeo Drive. -Jimmy, you do a lot of shopping here? You know what the rent around here -No. But it's a really lot. Like 20 grand, 40 grand a month. You gotta sell a lotta socks to do that. [Peter chuckles] [Jimmy] Oh boy, look at the parking here. -There's this one right here. There ya go. Ooh, hit the curb. Good job, Jim. Perfect. All right. What do I do? I'm not used to this either. [chuckles] Look at my car. I'm not used to any of this. -Like going to the big city for ya? -So living out here-- -Look at me... And then... Hold it there, lady. I notice for me I don't know how they look to you Like look. I never see people like this. What's that? Like they're city people. It's pretty cool. I never see that living in Montauk You don't see their type. There used to be a toy store All right, so 40 years ago -It's always been this nice. It's just different stores -I shoulda got some real estate here. -What do we have? -That's a deal. Five bedrooms, 13 mil. This one nine mil, 8,000 square feet. Then you have a small one here, -Three million. -3.2, yeah. [shoppers chattering] -Look at that place. So this is what we can't see -Because they're behind the hedges, right? [Jimmy] This is a beautiful area, -It is, I mean look -People are nice. -I was just in Kensington, -You were? So from going from Kensington... to this. Exactly. Yeah, it's pretty bad. I was also in the Mon Valley, of the country south of Pittsburgh. Right? Rust belt territory. Going from some of those places to this is like a totally different country. -A little different. -You know, it's like... How the hell? You know, I mean I watch sometimes a couple videos. -It's just heartbreaking. What is this? -This is where you get But what is this, cup sold They're doing the cup count. -Obviously that's how many cups Oh. Could you see me in this suit? Which one? -Nah, I think it's too tight -The pants are too tight. [chuckles] [Jimmy] They are very feminate, they You wearing socks? Good. [both chuckle] They're two gay dudes. Not that it's bad, I love gays. I love gay people. The more flamboyant they are, Great hardware store. Nice people. I love it here. Everyone's nice. How could anybody... You know, friends are &quot;There's so many people...&quot; They don't like any of these people. Maybe they're jealous I don't get it. I enjoy it all. I love looking at these people. Like I told you and I'm dressed the way I'm dressed. The lady went to me, &quot;You must not like it here I said, &quot;Are you kidding me? I love it.&quot; In wintertime it's nothing but Look at this. You know, what's there not to like? See these quaint -Cute, right? These are very old homes. My friend used to live back there. This is a bubbyville or bonacker area. -Okay, explain bonacker. Baymen. They're bubbies. They call 'em bubbies. Like hillbillies they call 'em. -Okay, you would never know. -Right off the road. Look, these are all baymen. They're the lessers. They been down here When they buy fish and stuff like that those are the old hullseine boats They bay boat for scalloping, and they got Those are bubbies there. Maybe I know him. They call this Poseyville. Don't ask me why You notice he got -Clam rake? -Tong rake they call that. So all the baymen, the people who came here first, they came here and they settled here. And the only way to make money Chickens and this and that. And they've been here -Mm-hmm. And they got squeezed out. You know, a lot of their fishing rights It's sad. Very sad. -What do you mean by their fishing rights? -Like I showed you this boat here. -See that boat right there? That's a hullseine boat. They launch them from the beach in big surf. They used to set out They were twine nets. They busted through the surf. They go all the way out, scoop back on the beach, They used to use horses pickup trucks with caps on them. And the government said, &quot;Nope, -So their way of life got removed? They'd been doing it for hundreds, You see it in the Caribbean islands They do it. It's the same thing And whatever fish they got, they got. So what they would do it on here, and there would be some fish or some skates, And this and that, and that and this, &quot;Oh my god, you're killing the fish.&quot; and they stopped them from doing it. They made the law So they just cut out They tried to give 'em town jobs aren't the most educated people around. Very sad. They're stopping a way of life. -You can apply it You sure can. In Appalachia, in coal country, and so those people are-- What do they do? Lot of drugs. There are still coal jobs, they're either It seems to be like half and half. It's weird, some are doing okay, -It's like town to town almost. [Jimmy] See all those buoys -Yeah. Got some of those buoys, huh? That's his boat right there. -Downeaster Alexa right there. There's a lot of famous people Justin Timberlake -Oh yeah? This is Downtown Sag Harbor. -How do you say? You say habba. [Peter] This is nice, wow. -It's pretty cool. [Peter] I mean it's equally as nice. -Yeah, it's pretty cool. [Peter] It's a little more cozy. Just everything is taken care of. There's not one shabby-looking anything. -Not around here. -There's some old homes on the right. Those are beauties. -It's an old whaling community here. This is where they whaled. They sued to send whaling ships out from -Years? I was on Saint Lawrence Island, Alaska -Wow. -Do they? [Jimmy] Look at that. This is the type of house -And live in. -Like you see that light there? That was like the whale oil to do that. They used to have, closer to the ocean, Where the wives would, they'd start going up looking Waiting for them to come back A lot of guys never made it home. [water sloshing gently] [Jimmy] Boy, look at these yachts. Wow. Wild, huh? -Could I live on one of these? Sure. Be nicer than my apartment. God damn. They just get bigger and bigger. You ring the little bell and, you know, -Jimmy. -Good times today. Thank you. My pleasure. You kidding me? Thanks for bringing me that most of us have no understanding of. Oh, good. Because like everything, and then once you start digging, different worlds, and you're the great storyteller. Thank you. That's very nice of you. Come back another time I'll show you some really neat stuff. Take you on a fishing boat. -I'm glad I could help out and... -Goodbye, world. All right guys, Until the next one. -Cool, huh? See ya Peter. [jazz music plays]