- This is the greatest sleeper It's fast, in fact, it's so fast, it's actually thermodynamically impossible in such a tiny case. That is unless, ah, yes, meet Bunta, an assuming sleeper with a wink, nudge, nudge. Know what I mean? We're about to show you how she's built and thanks &quot;Seasonic&quot; for (upbeat music) First things first, I Bunta here is going to be that's right? (man laughs) The way we're planning because the truth is as beautiful as our Sony VIO PCV RS 100 enclosure is, there just isn't enough room for the kind of cooling that we're gonna and a rise in the better Heck freaking yeah. So Punta is gonna get a little coolant injection in the butt and it might not end up being in the butt. - You introduced more - Oh, because I pay - What you weren't even in this meeting. (men laugh) - No, I have a meeting (beep) - Well, we got a lot a lot more water cooling So we need to come up Like I have a basic theme. I want this to be kind but yeah, we have a lot - For real though. why are there eight full bottles? - I have no clue. I didn't ask for any of this. - Oh wait. There's more than eight. Oh my God. There's so many what even... I figured it out. There's someone there who So this is probably enough for us to have no excuses to not - I guess so, but then whenever we're going to plug LTT store.com water bottles. - Yeah. Sorry. Alpha cool. - Yeah It's a P C I E riser kit. - Sure. - Is it that for this? - No. - Check this out. If we do a vertical GPU Mount, right? We actually get all of this and then we can do our water cool entry points at the back And then it can basically come straight up into the back of the GPU, super clean and then come - Oh, okay. I like that. - Yeah like that could be sick. Man, we could probably even do the pump and reservoir internally too, which would make filling it a lot easier. - 30 90 R O G stricks. Oh, that poor graphics to get a proper GPU block. If it can fit, this going right in there would be sweet. - That would be amazing. How on earth would we fill it? - That's a problem. - Okay hold on, I got a pitch for you. We take up big fat drill bit. We go straight through the optical drives and we run a tube to this and we put a stop fitting. - Okay. I can dig it. - Yeah, this is an odd spot - Yeah, I really wish they had it so that you just came - So we're gonna go up into here, what fricking out over to here now to Mr. Tivy, your thoughts on the. - I think that's what (men laughing) - Thanks Mr. Tivy. - Let's just get the old crap outta here. Get some space for our new components. I could probably just rip but I'm really scared that I'm just gonna break all the clips. This whole case is just riveted together. There's, no real way to repair it without destroying it first. Oh, excellent. Does this have light I wonder if we can replace this right here with an R G B L E D. Don't need that again. (hammer clangour) What? We need to get So I guess they're coming out together. (drill machine buzzing) There we go. Screw you Mr. Drive, (men laughing) This is the front IO that in the old wood PC, might be perfect for this. You'll need a bit of massaging and we don't need a power button. That's gonna work great. For the motherboard, we're going with the mostly because it's the largest AMD board that I could fit in this our CPU is the rise of 9 59 50 X. Can we still say it's now that the 12 900 K is out? (Alex laughs) My thoughts exactly David , for Ram we're going with These are each 16, gigabyte sticks, 4,000 mega transfers per second, cl 18. Wish I hadn't brought Linus over, this would be so much easier if we didn't have to deal I do agree it's gonna look awesome, but this is gonna be a pain in the butt. If you haven't watched you absolutely should. One thing to note in that video, the pump seem to be working fine. After two, three hours of use, it started sounding like It's terrible. Because this is the GPU that we have these headers that allow us to access the I two C. Now I could just remove those headers, but I want to keep them there. And we can probably overcloak Once it's all set up with the 480 rad. So instead, I'm very sorry &quot;Alpha Cool.&quot; We're drilling a couple Fortunately, I already in the stock air cooler So I can just pick those up, put them onto this and (drilling machine growling) Heck yeah, look at that. We now have easy access to those. This is gonna be one fast GPU. Oh, there we go water blocks on. And the back plates on This is going to be such Wow, it's kind of tight. Look at the clearance on (grinder buzzing) Yeah, it looks good to me. It needs a tiny bit of cleanup, (upbeat music) - Is it test fit time? - It's getting close, I have but it was a huge pain in the butt. The biggest problem was just - Yeah. I see. Wow, this doesn't not really fit in there. - Yeah the problem is that if we don't use the vertical Mount, it also doesn't really fit in there. - Yeah. - Like we have to cut away the back plate. And probably lose this. - Yeah, okay. - Pretty much all of our by the back play cooling. Without that, it would - This is genius level back design work here. (Linus laughs) - And so when the pump is this way, you might think would make sense. - Uh huh yeah. - It's too close to both of these, and doesn't work. So you flip it around like that, so it comes sort of across, down the back. - Yeah. - And then up into here, - And then straight across to here. - No into there. - Oh, into here - That one's gonna suck. It's gonna be a weird little bendy thing. - Okay, oh my God you didn't. Why are you so determined to It doesn't even like work properly. - No, that's for the voltage controller, we can up the voltage. (grinder buzzing) (upbeat music) (upbeat music continues) - Our last couple sleepers, we haven't really painted you want them just look This one though is going to Look at that David, Nicholas made up the design and he is gonna walk you through how he's going to paint it like that. - First, we figured out a scale for the wonderful LTT We figured out, this size but we're gonna paint this The front is gonna have the black and white stripes. Then yeah, we're just into our dirty spray booth (upbeat music) So see how shiny this is, this is not good for paint. One is dirty. Two, paint doesn't have So we need to go through scuff it with 100 or 150 grit sandpaper. And that'll give enough - Is this the (indistinct) - Yes. - This is the tiny - Yeah, Serge built it yesterday. It's a great little desk. - All right, good job Serge. - It does need these to be trimmed. - Yeah, that's fine. That's minor. - Yeah. - Are we gonna go with like, oh, you know what We should use? That LG one by one monitor or whatever. - Why? Because it's sleeper, - No, we should just use a good monitor. - It would match the aesthetic though. And then we use like a model M so it's stealthly an - Or we could just use a good monitor. - Ah. - This goes in here somewhere, - Okay, oh it's gonna have a leg warmer. - Oh yeah it will. - How about there? Right? - I was thinking we'd mark it, but sure. (drill buzzing) - Okay. (drill continue buzzing) I see. Oh, perfect. (drill buzzing) There we go. - Linus didn't think I'd take the time to properly 3d prints some parts, but he forgot one key thing. I have a fancy new 3d printer. This is the HS three from Pantheon design and it is freaking fast. The head experience is making this prusarate here, It is still in beta and quite finicky, but get subscribed because we're gonna get new print heads soon that should fix most of those issues. And then we're gonna make Oh, and it's printing this fast while using carbon reinforced petg, freaking crazy. (upbeat music) Oh, these look awesome. Look at that bracket, that is very sturdy. Wonder if my measurements let's go check. Our first 3d printed part is on and now we're going to The main reason why I'm is because it's Friday and we need to finish this project today. And this is the sort of fiddly crap that can blow up our entire project. If you do it when you're in - After spending way then re-masking using the Instead of by hand, my hands are steady, but not that steady. I think it's time for us to do paint. (sprayer whooshing) (upbeat music) (sprayer continue whooshing) - [Alex] So you want to pull instead of a bit dryer. - We don't want to peel So it's not fully dry, We can touch it. - [Alex] That's a crispy line. - [David] Frog tape for the wind. - I'm really happy with this mound. My other plan was to just grab from over there and just send it. I'm glad I did it the right way. Look at this, I can probably - [David] Oh don't do it. (Alex laughs) - From here, putting the PC together, shouldn't be too difficult. The thing that's going to make to do something that's hidden. Like for instance, if I forget to put an the GPU and a whole bunch of other things, like all the water cooling front IO is just gonna get Just need to line it up and should be fun. (drill buzzing) For storage, we're going with the four terabites of So this is a PCI gen four SSD, It also is going into this dim dot two, which is kind of weird, but also makes sense because it allows you and also some extra fans too much space on this already the dim dot two sticks out a lot further than I was expecting. So hopefully it doesn't if it does, it's not a huge deal, we can just remove the audio, but it does suck not to Nope, fine. Totally good. I was really hoping I could just stash these cables down like that, but the pump interferes So it's gonna have to go It's gonna look nasty. (upbeat music) All the front panel stuff is on. Now these LEDs right here because I need to figure out the polarity of the ones that we had, plugged it into this power supply, and immediately just blew it up, it was like one and a half volts. (man laughs) Anyway, these should work just fine. Right here though, I want to stick a single R G B L E D. And it should, with the light And it's gonna look sweet. We're now at the point where and when they go in, So for instance, I need to do this tube from out down to the radiator. And once that's in, I can no longer access that tube or any of the front IO stuff, 'cause gonna be totally I know we've talked about that we've done to our GPU a couple times, but every single time we've used it, this power supply's also been in there. It's a PX 1300 wall from &quot;Seasonic.&quot; They sponsored this video and yeah, it survived the shunt mods survived wish water cooling. It's gonna survive this and So if it doesn't, you can One thing we're going to do that I normally wouldn't recommend is disable hybrid mode so that when it's on allows for this fan to we don't want that though, because I'm going to just That's an intake and this fan's exhaust, it takes up a lot of room. (man laughs) This is a massive power I guess it's our last bit. The GPU is finally going to go in. Now this is gonna be very difficult. So we need to, first of all, That's easy. But then as it goes in, we need to connect two And at the same time, not move it around too much because I am double-sided So once it's in, it can't move. It just doesn't quite want to grab piece of crap. Oh, I think we need to I can't get these fittings to work out. Ha ha ha. That is without a doubt, the most difficult GPU to install that I've ever experienced. Just want to test to make sure that there's no leaks in this. It would be, I don't need to tell It would be very bad. All right. We're right at one bar. Let's leave it for a minute. It's not moving. We're good. (upbeat music) It's finally time to fill it. And I guess David, we have to use one of &quot;Alpha - [David] Of course. - We got so many. - Think one of these is good. Probably should use two. - [David] I think yeah, the other one. - Yeah, can dual wield them? - [David] Oh, not that one, the other one. - Oh okay. This one. - [David] Yeah, that one. - Oh, okay. Well that's not a good first time you. - [David] Plug it in, it might be better. - Yeah, that's, no we need to do that. Thank you David. (David laughs) - [David] Oh. - Oh, that's a lot of RGB. I don't see any leaks immediately. Not that I'm concerned. We already did leak test it. It isn't posting, which is fine. I'm gonna update the bios, I'll see you in probably like - A few moments later. - Well, bad news. I have updated the bios and I'll just turn it on here to show you. Nothing happens. We can leave it here for a couple minutes, but I'm not gonna get a display out. And I'm almost sure that I know why I've confirmed that we have a PCI gen and it's a PCI gen for I foresaw this being a problem, but in the past it hasn't So you can just hop in the And it's fine. Problem is AMD are stupid and don't give you integrated graphics. So I can't do that. Which means we have to and drain the loop. I have a terrible idea though, that might make my life It involves this GT 730. The only time it's ever My thought is that if I and get this out, I should be able to plug in our GT 730. Use that to switch the bios. Oh, this is double-sided taped in. Geez. There's more water in the computer. That's not great. I don't see anything that's leaking, which means it's probably the this isn't working and I need So that sucks. Oh wow. There's a log. Look at that. - [David] Uh oh. - That must be from the pump. I'll see you in a day when (upbeat music) Holy crap it's working. It was not very easy. I took the whole GPU out, replaced the riser cable, reinstall it. It wasn't quite as hard as last time 'cause I used a bunch and then kind of just slotted in instead of like being very difficult, always used lube very important. Then I got it to work for a and I troubleshoot it for about two hours. I fixed it by blowing I have no clue why it works now. Anyway, I think it looks fricking sweet. This thing's amazing. Big moment here we finally Oh, this is easily my favorite It's been Margaret for such a long time. 'Cause that thing was a beast, but Punta takes the cake for sure. - [David] Oh yeah, that's good looking. - Damn. (upbeat music) - Wow, that RTX 30 90 is running - Should be burning up, but CPU temps have - [Man] Amazing, it gives me goosebumps a new perfect example of a sleeper PC. (upbeat music continues) - Wow, that is not very good. It looks too awesome. - [Alex] What? - It's not sleeperly. It looks fricking insane. - This is the original sleeper Linus. - I love it. That's so cool. You made the bio RGB. Oh man. It looks too legit. You goofed, It's too good. - Oh, and speaking of legit, do you know what actually works for once? - The front front IO? - Yeah. - You put type C on it. - [Alex] Yeah. - You put type C on it. - Alex, this may be the worst (Alex laughs) but it's the best computer. And however I might have felt on the back plate, this How's cooling performance? I see you're using the Do we have any exhaust? - [Alex] The power supply. - Oh. - [Alex] It's not in hybrid mode anymore. So the fan's going. - Got it. And then I guess you're really to here with the quad 120 Wow, you did a great That's not as amazing, but. - [Alex] Yeah, I was hoping we'd shoot this from the other direction. So you wouldn't see that. - Yeah. We didn't. (Alex and Linus laugh) - Now you did request I don't know how I feel - Yeah, it doesn't really warm you, it's such a big radiator that the air's blowing It's more distracting. - Yes. - I may have found a slight oversight. Did you ever actually try to plug anything into - No. - It doesn't fit. Oh, well you know what? Maybe we'll get it in there. - [Alex] Yeah, I never tested - Yep. That's okay. My crotch is cooled. (Alex laughs) When those fans kick in it's - [Alex] Yeah, It's an - Yeah. - [Alex] Initial D kind of car. - Initial D, what's an initial D? - It's the anime that - I mean it's black and white. Okay, so it's this one here? - [Alex] Go for that one. - [Linus] Ooh, that's pretty cool. Whoa, Nelly. I am all over the place here boys. I'm in fifth and I'm all over the place. What even is this? It's like I'm on ice. This is ridiculous. - Woo. (Linus laughs) - Oh my goodness. Woo. - This is ridiculous. I am doing donuts and forth. That's just wrong. - [Alex] How's that wrong? That's awesome. - [Linus] Do the wheels even - [Alex] While you control your steering with the right trigger. - And I control this - It's &quot;Seasonic.&quot; - Oh yeah, it's sponsored by &quot;Seasonic.&quot; - Well that's awesome &quot;Seasonic.&quot; They make great power supplies. They're quiet. You can configure them with or without their zero fan hybrid fan mode. They have fantastic warranties. This particular one It could actually last They got fully modular power What more could you want? Check'em out at the link down below. Thank you &quot;Seasonic&quot; for They sponsor lots of cool Good people. Good people, good power supplies. What more can you ask for? (upbeat music) - This is a good tune you're just bad. - Oh, I have no doubt. No doubt.