Hi, I'm Michael. This is Lessons from the Screenplay. In the weeks following Black Panther's release, I noticed that one character seemed to be Michael B. Jordan's "Erik Killmonger." In particular, I kept encountering articles saying he was the best antagonist since Heath When looking at the design of the two characters, it's clear that they have several similarities, but it's their differences that are really The character of The Joker is designed to &quot;Batman must take off his mask and turn himself in.&quot; &quot;Every day he doesn't people will die.&quot; Killmonger, on the other hand, is designed to attack T'Challa's weakness "This is it for you, cousin." So today I want to look at the ways Killmonger challenges T'Challa's deeply-held To examine why an opponent with an empathetic And explore a unique aspect of Killmonger's that makes him such an emotionally powerful Let's take a look at Black Panther. As the story begins, T'Challa believes that He wants to be a great king like his father, and he thinks the best way to do this is to "If the world found out what we truly are... what we possess...we could lose our way of Because this is the decision T'Challa will the writers surround him with characters that At one end of the spectrum is Okoye, who believes the secret of Wakanda must be even if it means sacrificing the lives of "How do we justify bringing him into our "He took a bullet for me." "That was his choice." At the other end of the spectrum is Nakia, who refuses to stay in Wakanda because she can't accept living in comfort "I can't be happy here knowing that there's We could provide aid...and access to technology Other countries do it. We could do it better." But even Nakia, who T'Challa is in love (explosion) That's a job for the antagonist. As Killmonger arrives, he starts affecting the protagonist in the two years ago. Killmonger is competing for the same goal "I want the throne. I'm exercising my blood right to challenge ...and pressuring him into difficult choices... "I accept your challenge." But what makes him such a powerful antagonist is the way he attacks T'Challa's weakness. Just like the other characters surrounding Killmonger has an opinion on whether or not and most importantly, it's a perspective In an interview, Joe Robert Cole, co-writer "I think the best villains are ones that and that you can empathize with. Sometimes it's how far you take things that and not necessarily the perspective." Killmonger's perspective is influenced by &quot;I observed for as long as I could. Their leaders have been assassinated. Communities flooded with drugs and weapons. They are overly policed and incarcerated. All over the planet our people suffer because This outrage passed to young Erik, who points out that Wakanda has sat idly by "Y'all sittin' up here comfortable. Must feel good. It's about two billion people all over the But their lives are a lot harder. Wakanda has the tools to liberate 'em all." The foundation of Erik's perspective is Wakanda, a nation of extreme wealth and knowledge, could be and should be doing more for those Up to this point, his argument is one I think but what makes Killmonger the villain is the to do more for those in need. "We're gonna send vibranium weapons out They'll arm oppressed people all over the so they can finally rise up and kill those in power. And their children. And anyone else who takes their side." So if the antagonist's perspective has how can they successfully change the protagonist's This, in my opinion, is the most brilliant Not only does Killmonger affect T'Challa's he also affects the protagonist's beliefs Returning briefly to The Joker comparison, one of the biggest differences between him is how much we know about who they are. The Joker has no backstory at all, and we never fully understand why he's doing that's part of what makes him so powerful. With Killmonger, the exact opposite is true. He isn't some stranger who has come to wreak he's T'Challa's family. "Your uncle fell in love with an American They had a child. We left him." And in learning more about who Erik really T'Challa discovers the ugly truth about and the real cost of Wakanda's secrecy. "He killed his own brother and left a child What kind of a king... what kind of a man does that?" In this way, Erik is the embodiment of the a walking reminder of his father's failings, an example of the people who have needlessly and living proof that shutting out the rest And it is only when T'Challa is confronted that his beliefs finally change. "You were wrong to abandon him. All of you were wrong! To turn your backs on the rest of the world! We let the fear of our discovery stop us from No more!" Just as The Joker pushes Batman to become through pressure and chaos, Killmonger pushes T'Challa to truly become Killmonger: "You sat up here, safe and protected." T'Chall: "You want to see us become just like the You have become them!" ...and empathy. "The world took everything away from me! Everything I ever loved!" The writers let us see the young boy inside of Killmonger, a child who had everything unfairly taken from him, and for whom the world Wakanda was merely a fantasy. Killmonger: &quot;You believe that?&quot; &quot;A kid from Oakland running around believing in fairy tales. After battling with and learning from the T'Challa decides what kind of king he wants "Wakanda will no longer watch from the shadows. We must find a way to look after one another Killmonger and The Joker are both brilliantly to push their respective protagonists to change. But their differences demonstrate how the can demand different qualities from the antagonist This further underscores why the antagonist ...why empathetic villains are often more ...and why The Dark Knight and Black Panther of how to create the ultimate antagonist. Hiding knowledge from the rest of the world I think if you have skills that can help people Which is why it's so great that Skillshare Skillshare is an online learning community technology and more. I recommend checking out Yiyun Li's class When you're just getting started writing, and her class is a great way to begin practicing And you can get two months of Skillshare for So head to Skillshare to start learning today. Thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video. Hey guys, hope you enjoyed the video! A lot of times these videos change pretty For example, the first version of this video and featured a more in depth comparison between And I know that some people find works in progress and early drafts really interesting, so I often share these early versions with So if you want to support the channel and head to my Patreon by clicking on the link below. Thank you as always to my patrons and my supporters here on YouTube for making this channel possible. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next