In July 1967, the Soviet Union reveals what And it sets off alarm bells. We currently have no fighter in our operational combat the Foxbat. It is thought to have multiple air-to-air capability at a speed of Mach 3. With the United States and Soviet Union locked seemed to be winning. Faced with the prospect of being outclassed by engineering the greatest fighter jet in In the Korean War, early fighter jets like off in fierce air-to-air battles. Both were light, agile jets built for close-range But by the mid-1950s, new technologies were Powerful new radars could detect the enemy guided missiles could hit targets kilometers Military planners grew convinced that air visual range, where the enemy wouldn't be And it meant the newest fighter jet, the F-4 It was fast, heavily-loaded with missiles Many believed that dogfighting had become But in reality, nothing could be further from In the Vietnam War, the Air Force's new But things didn't go as planned. The skies over Vietnam were a chaotic mix designed to help Air Force pilots identify Forcing pilots to get in close to visually The whole idea of engaging from a distance The new F-4 Phantoms were pulled in to close Something their pilots had never been trained And the Phantom's guided missiles proved Designed for larger, high-altitude targets, And when the missiles failed, pilots were Because the F-4 was built without a gun for The larger, less maneuverable Phantoms with spotted. The more agile MiG's lured the F-4s in close, The F-4 just barely held its own in this air a fighter, finding it difficult to compete American pilots were being downed at alarming that the age of dogfighting was far from over. Air Force planners scrambled to respond, equipping training pilots to engage the more maneuverable But these were stop-gap solutions. What the Air Force really needed was a new And it meant scrapping every one of its earlier aircraft, which now looked too large, too the Phantom. And they'd have to move quickly. Because in 1967, the Soviet Union unveiled like the MiGs that F-4 Phantoms were squaring Everything seemed to suggest a fighter built With twin tails, a massive wingspan, and monstrous Intelligence experts suspected the Soviets along with new radar and weapons systems. A few months later, the Soviet's went on speed and altitude records with the new fighter. We currently have no fighter in our operational combat the Foxbat. If the experience in Vietnam wasn't concerning to unleash a new super-fighter. After spending the better part of two decades and attack aircraft, the Air Force finally air superiority fighter. In 1968, leading U.S. aircraft designers were Their entries would be assessed using a groundbreaking A mathematical formula to help define a fighter's drag, and weight. In December 1969, the contract to build the Their design was the product of 2.5 million to begin immediately. The F-15 Eagle was designed from the ground Two afterburning turbofans could unleash a thrust. Enough power to break the sound barrier... With a top speed of over Mach 2.5, the F-15 by the United States. For peak performance, the engines were fitted air inlet control system adjusting to ensure Where earlier fighters like the F-4 had a in the F-15, engineers instead opted for low ratio, delivered superior maneuverability. For maximum situational awareness, the cockpit offering a commanding 360 degree view along with radar and avionics. Eight Sparrow and Sidewinder missiles were But if things got up close and personal, a to six thousand rounds a minute. And for maximum survivability, engineers designed flight controls, and a reinforced airframe. With its combination of speed, power and agility, of the greatest fighters ever built. The first prototype was unveiled in June 1972, the go ahead. The new fighter was put through an extensive itself against the best of what the Air Force Up against the heavy F-4 Phantom, the F-15 quick work of the interceptor. [Radio chatter] Even the smaller, lighter F-5, used to simulate to shake the larger F-15. [Radio chatter] In nearly every engagement, whether beyond F-15 commanded an overwhelming advantage. With a true air superiority fighter on their to the Soviet Union. Only a year and half earlier, the Soviet's the Mig-25. Now the F-15 was about to erase them. In 1975, engineers stripped a pre-production even removing its paint to make it as light In the cold, dense air of North Dakota, the stop, rocketing up to altitudes as high as Right to the edge of the earth's stratosphere.... Not only did the F-15 beat the MiG's records The Air Force had a winner on their hands, as one of the most successful fighter development By 1974, the fighter was already in mass production for the U.S. Air Force. And America's allies were also eager to The first foreign operator was Israel beginning later and Saudi Arabia. And with some of the first F-15's being deployed Union's doorstep, it seemed only a matter the MiG-25. In 1976, the Americans finally got a first But it wasn't what they were expecting. In September of that year, Lieutenant Viktor Defence Forces made a fateful decision to And he did it by secretly flying his MiG-25 a civilian Airport in Japan. After more than a decade shrouded in mystery, Foxbat down to every last detail. Although similar in size and appearance, the common. Built mostly out of heavy nickel steel alloy, the F-15. The large wings weren't for agility. They were needed just to get the monstrous The enormous weight meant that the MiG-25 The F-15 was capable of nearly that. Most of what the MiG carried was the fuel Even so, its combat radius was a mere 300 Its avionics used outdated vacuum tubes, and Meaning it couldn't even detect an F-15 flying The MiG-25 was anything but the dogfighting It was purely a high altitude interceptor. Designed to reach incredible speeds to catch But it wasn't built to do much else. The Soviets had kept the Foxbat's capabilities propaganda value and the alarm it had caused But now it was the Soviet's turn to panic. Because in 1976, the Soviet Union had no fighter with an F-15. F-15s scored their first victories in 1979 in a single engagement. Over the years the Eagle would win air battle almost as a matter of routine. Today, F-15's have racked up more than 100 A record unmatched by any fighter in history. Early F-15 A and B models were soon joined range, payload and weapon systems. Originally conceived of as an air superiority into a formidable ground attack aircraft. Leveraging the fighter's superior range, Nearly a half century after taking to the Air Force. With deliveries beginning in 2021, of the for the F-15C. The MiG-25 was never designed to combat an But in January of 1991, the two Cold War icons And the outcome wasn't what anyone could Because what the MiG-25 lacked in maneuverability, fighter of all time. And the Iraqis would use it to their advantage, as they patrolled the skies. You can learn about this incredible air battle this month. Nebula is where you can watch a growing number of the MiG-31 Interceptor, the legendary F-117 lesser known bizarre proposals like the MiG-25 flying Aircraft Carriers. It's also where you'll also find hundreds creators, like Real Life Lore and his Modern NEO's Under Exposure series. On Nebula, there's no algorithm to punish risks on big-budget projects. And because Nebula is completely ad-free, that YouTube deems advertiser-friendly. When creators are given the freedom to make are nothing short of astounding. On Nebula you'll also get access to Nebula courses on how to become a creator yourself. Sign up using the link below, and get a twenty month you'll support Mustard and get access