Let's get this show on the road. We are 1700 on the nose. Definitely the level of our opposition has been rising steadily. Let's see who we face tonight. Anita Kakari four. And in the speedrun I play my official opening recommendations, we still have not gotten an accelerated dragon. This is actually kind of fascinating how few people play the Open Sicilian. And again, we're not getting an accelerated we're getting night C Three. And every time we face night C Three, which is a couple of times now, I sort of reiterate the explanation of which move you should play in response. And that depends primarily on what you play against the Open Sicilian. So if you're a Nydarf player, then you should play D Six. If you're an accelerated dragon player, which we are for the purposes of this speed run, then you should play the move knight to C Six. The point is that if White now plays the move knight F, uh, three, which she just did, how should we proceed with luck? Well, of course, we should basically play with the understanding that our opponent is going to play D Four on the next move. So if we're an accelerated dragon player, then everything is very easy. We play G Six, and in the event of D Four, which I think is quite likely, we take, and then we transpose directly into an accelerated dragon. Very nice. Our first one. Okay. Bishop. G Seven. Fiancadowing. The bishop. And this is our first accelerated dragon. And it makes sense we've hit 1700. This is around the time that we see more people delve into some of the main lines. All right, so in the Accarda Dragon, the kind of Zen of this opening is to delay the move D Six. If we play D Six, then we allow White to transpose into the mainline dragon. And there's nothing cardinally wrong with the dragon itself. It's just a highly theoretical and incredibly dangerous opening. The accelerated dragon essentially does not allow White to castle Queenside without suffering the consequences. So we hold off on the move D Six. Why do we do that? Well, we do that primarily so that we can play D, open up the center in one fell swoop, provided that White allows this to happen. Therefore, we develop our knight first. And if you're seeing this for the first time, you know, uh, you might be worried about the prospect of developing our minor pieces without first pushing our pawn out to D Six. But as I'll show you after the game, this is nothing to worry about. And there is a line where White tries to punish us by trading on C Six and then playing E Five. But in that line, black successfully sacrifices a pawn with the knight D Five and gets a very nice initiative. This is a well known line. According to theory, A Three is already a sideline. In fact, it's a move that I have never seen before. It's not a very good move. And it's not a very good move because it doesn't really do anything. I mean, A three in this position is sort of a waste of time because we are not planning to put anything on B Four. So we can essentially proceed as though White has given us another turn and we could probably already get away with the move D five. But the problem with playing D Five before castling is that after D Five, there is the very unpleasant move bishop B five. And you can kind of see why that's annoying. White pins the night. White threatens knight takes C six, and then bishop takes C Six is going to fork the king and the rook. So, as a general rule of thumb, um, you only want to play D Five. After you've Castled Kingside, which is what we're going to do. We're going to castle kingside. We are now fully ready to push the pond to D Five and open up the center. And we can really try to punish White for delaying her development here. Bishop c four. Okay, now, a very important tactical detail, and this is incredibly common in the accelerated dragon. It is impossible to play the accelerated without knowing this concept. And this is called the center fork trick. And the center fork trick is ubiquitous across many different openings and with both colors, which makes it incredibly important to know. And it occurs any time either side has a bishop on this square. Or, of course, if you're playing black, you have a bishop on C five, right? This is the precondition for the center fork trick. And what you do is actually knight takes C Four anyway. Looks like a blunder. But, uh, if you have prior knowledge of this idea, you know that it's not a blunder. Knight takes C four, you meet with the move D five. That's where the fork term comes from. And you essentially ref fork the knight and the bishop, and you're going to win the piece back. Now, White can give that piece away for a pawn, but in this particular version, it's not even that easy for White to win the pawn back, as you'll see. So we play the move. D five. A couple of things to notice again, mostly if you're seeing this for the first time, if White plays the move knight takes night, then we take back with the pawn. And even though White has opened up a line of contact to the D Five pawn, we are now protecting it with our own, uh, C Six pawn. So this is an important detail. This is indeed exactly what happens. And this is where White really, really pays the price, uh, for the move A three, because it is more common for this position to arise with White having castled instead of having played A three. So White keeping the king in the center and essentially wasting a move is really going to burn them. So what's going on here? Well, we're attacking the bishop and the night at the same time, hence the fork. And the general kind of prescription for responding to the center fork trick is to keep your bishop pair. Books often recommend this, and this is the best move in a lot of different openings. The move bishop c four back to d three is often the recommended way of combating the center fork trick. And the point is that after we take the night, white takes back the pawn and keeps their bishop pair. But if you look a little bit further in this particular situation, the b two pawn is also hanging, and it's hanging with tempo. We take it and we attack the rook simultaneously. So that's kind of out the window. That's kind of out the window. And if white's not playing bishop d three, then what is white doing? Well, white can probably take on D five, but then we recapture with the pawn. And again we have the bishop pair. We're attacking the knight. The knight can't move back to C three because white gets forked again, this time on the fourth rank. And if white doesn't move to C three, then again, white loses the b two pawn with tempo. So there's just nothing that white can do which comes even remotely close to equalizing nike three is her choice. Okay, well, what do we do now? Well, a very bad move here would be to play bishop takes B two. And I think, uh, newer players might be tempted by the look of that move because you might say, well, let's grab that pawn and attack the rook. And when the rook moves, then we can take the bishop. The problem is, remember that we have already sacrificed a piece. So bishop takes b two, allows white to move the bishop away from C four. And if we then take the rook on a one, white takes back with a queen. And technically black is even up material in the resulting position because we have a rook and two pawns for the two pieces. But in most middle game situations, two pieces are preferable to a rook. And you particularly want to avoid, when possible, giving away your fianceto bishop in the accelerated dragon unless you absolutely have to or unless there are some sort of extenuating circumstances. So bishop takes b two would be bad. We simply recapture on c four. Now we are up a pawn. Okay. Our opponent gets into an end game. And of course, we will still need to show a good amount of technique if we want to finish our opponent off in style here. Now, c three is a good move by our opponent closing off our bishop. And now that the queens are off the board, we need to kind of reassess the situation we are upon. We have a bishop pair, our bishop on C eight is not yet developed. But because the queens are off the board, our king is not in any imminent danger. It's not like we need to necessarily rush to get our bishop out. I think we have bigger fish to fry here. And the particular fish that I think we should fry is this B two pawn. What makes me look at the B two pawn? Well, largely it's the fact that we have a pond on C four. And from some of my endgame videos, you might recognize this as kind of a deep freeze situation where one of your pawns is essentially keeping in place, holding down two or more of the enemy pawns. So that pawn on C four is making sure that the pawn on B two is not only a backward pawn, but has no path forward. That pawn is a huge weakness, and it's a weakness on an open file. So there is a move that's essentially begging to be played. And this is a move we can play largely without calculation because there isn't anything to lose by playing this move. And I am thinking of the move rook to B eight. Now, you might say, well, what about the A seven pawn? Well, that pawn cannot be captured because if I would have captured it, we would have taken B two, and then the C three pawn very likely would have also fallen. Rook B one is just collapsed by our opponent. The rook on B one is unprotected. LPDO loose pieces drop off. And I know this because the rooks are not coordinated. And the move that just ends the game here is bishop takes E three. Check. I can sense some people wondering if we can first play rook takes B two and try to be fancy. The answer is no. The answer is no. Rook takes b two. Rook takes b two. Bishop takes c three. Check. The rook can block on D two. It's a common type of blunder. The rook that you're forking can itself block the check. And after takes takes black emerges down a piece. So bishop C three is simple and strong. Now we have two possibilities. We can play bishop takes B two. Or I think the more clinical move is to play rook takes B two. We're already up essentially three pawns. So you should already have one eye on Simplification. And trading a pair of rooks will make it easier for us, as a consequence, to promote the C four pawn. So I like the move. Rook takes b two. And this is already game over. Our first accelerated Dragon experiment has been a successful one. Yeah. Bishop takes b two. White is probably going to take on a seven. We're going to play C three, obviously. And the good thing about C three is that it not only prepares to promote the pawn, it also creates an anchor point for our, uh, rook on D two. And it opens up the A six F one diagonal for our LightSquared bishop. So we solve all of the problems with that move. Yes. C three we can. Again, at this point, I'm playing largely without calculation because there's nothing to calculate. None of our moves contain any risk at all. They're just incredibly straightforward and essentially asking to be played. Yeah, of course we can take a three. There's nothing inherently wrong with grabbing another pawn, but we can grab that pawn now if we wanted to. But I'm just trying to win the game in a more efficient manner. Now, here's the order of operations. Of course. The, uh, move that's begging to be played here is C two, and we're going to play it. But C Two doesn't actually threaten to promote. What does C two threaten? So try to figure out what threat does C two actually pose. And we're going to play this move next against virtually any one of White's responses. So not rook D One immediately, because if we play rook D one immediately, white takes on D one. And then perhaps some of you are attracted to bishop G four. Check. But remember that White can block that with a pawn. Instead, we need to switch the move order. We want to go rook D one, but we want to dislodge the king from E two first. And if you've been paying attention, this move should occur to you. Bishop a six. Check. Knock the king off of E two, then put the rook on D one, and the path is now essentially clear for the pawn to promote. We can either promote immediately and win a piece, or we can try to squeeze a little bit more out of the situation by deflecting the bishop off of this diagonal. If we can do that, then the promotion comes and we simply make a new queen. Yeah, this is, uh, a pretty one sided game. Yeah, this has been a very one sided game. Age three. Okay, so again, if you're playing a blitz game, then there's nothing wrong with just taking the rook and then making a queen and getting up a bishop and a pawn and converting the resulting position. But, uh, we're trying to be as accurate as possible. I'm trying to give you a glimpse of what GM level play actually looks like. And so we're going to put into practice an idea that I think might be a lot less obvious to people. This might be one of the least obvious ideas of this game. What we're going to do, essentially, is use our pawns on the kingside to squeeze the life out of White's minor pieces the knight on G three and the bishop on E three. First of all, this is something everybody should see are on forkable squares. What could they be forked by? Well, there's only one thing that could fork them, and that's a pawn. Now, on what square would the pond have to be? Well, the pawn would have to be on the F, uh, four square. But that seems pretty far fetched, right? It seems like we're not even close to being able to establish a pawn in F Four, and yet that's an illusion. We're only three moves away, and we've got all the time in the world here because White is totally paralyzed. And that's the beauty of being able to do what you want. So we're simply going to start with E Five, and then on the next move, we're going to play F Five. And the problem isn't only that we will be threatening F four, we will also be threatening E Four. And that's almost checkmate. And even if White moves one of the minor pieces, f Four might still be incredibly effective. So, for instance, as we play the move F Five here, if White moves the bishop seemingly out of sight of the FPA, we will still play F Four. And that bishop on H Six, its contact with C One is going to be intercepted. That's even better. And white is no squares. That's it. Resigns. So, a simple idea. I, uh, didn't mean to overhype it, but I think it ends the game a lot faster than promoting immediately. That one was pretty fast. Let's quickly go through some of the introductory theory, and I'm sure we will get more accelerated Dragon Games as we go along. So I'm not going to bog you down too much in any individual game. So knight C, six, knight F. So we transposed into a main line here. Bishop G, seven. Previously. We'd gotten a closed Sicilian. We'd gotten Grand Prix attack. We'd gotten a good amount of antisilians. Okay? Bishop B Three, of course, is the main move. Now we play Nite F six. And the sort of introductory line that I'd like to show here is knight takes C Six, BC and E Five, because this is a very important line to know. This is a very important line to know. And I'll pull up what I have here. Just a moment. Yeah. So here, if you don't know what to do with Black, you are likely to kind of sink under the weight of this E Five pawn. As far as I know, Black has two moves. Let me check which one is more popular nowadays. Yeah. Nine. G Eight is actually the move. I apologize. Uh, what I said during the game was wrong. N Five is not the correct way to play here, even though it's an interesting pawn sacrifice. But believe it or not, you actually move the knight back to Ga. Now, F Four is what most people are going to play here. And it's important to realize that despite the sort of appearance, despite, uh, appearances, black's position is completely fine. And White has bitten off more of a chunk of the center than he can chew. Black has a couple of interesting moves here. There's F, uh, six chipping away at the center immediately. But I like the move knight H six, redeploying the knight along the light squares that White has weakened on the kingside, which is a common byproduct of this particular pawn chain. The light squares on the kingside are now quite weak. So here the main move is queen D two. And you can start by castling short. And let's say that White Castle's queenside. There are still over 100 games in the database. Now we have to chip away at White's pawn chain with the move D six. Now, uh, this seems to give up a pawn, and it does. But now you've opened up your bishop and the bishop is joined by the knight, which comes out to F five. But the main drawback of taking on C six in any such position is that it opens the B file. And the B file is an absolute game changer in any position with opposite side castling. Watch how quickly that open B file can lead to White's demise. So let's say White plays de queen E seven. The bishop has to move because it's now hanging bishop F two. And already here, rook B eight is a great move. But rook B eight is not the best move. And this is subtle, but hopefully everybody can understand it. Here. White can play. Bishop C. Four. And the point of bishop C four is to drop the bishop back to B three and, uh, block the B file. So this move is very tempting, but black is at a bit of a dead end. It's worthwhile to start with the move bishop to E six, cover the C four square, and pre move rook B eight. When I say pre move, I mean premove. Even if White plays G four, you still play rook A B eight. And if White plays, G takes f five. Just queen B. Four. You don't even need to sack on B two. Just go. Queen b four. B three. And now bishop takes C three is a very bad move because of queen to D six covering the A three square. You actually want to go rook B to D eight, forcing the queen away. And if White plays queen takes D eight, then we play queen A three, check. If the king moves up to D two, then we take the queen. And here we take C three. And checkmate is unavoidable on B two. So nothing insane, but a pretty nice line and a good line to know. So if we rewind BC E five, N G eight, F four, you redeploy the knight to H six. This is how quickly White can go down, unless White plays a bunch of computer moves. And the objective assessment of this position is equal. The engine gives zero zero, but the top engine move is something nobody's going to play. I don't think anybody's going to go H three here. I think most people are going to go queen d two. The second most popular move here is bishop d three. Again, black's continuation is usually reliably the same you castle and then you play d six to try to get rid of that e five pawn. And once you get rid of it, white is left with a ton of weaknesses. Black is left with a semi open b file and this pawn and a four sticks out like a sore thumb. Actually, even stronger is to play ng four. Intermediate move bishop d two in the classic bishop d four, king h one night f two check wins in exchange. But, uh, this is actually the top engine suggestion. An important detail here. Queen e two forks, the bishop and the pond. But the bishop can drop back to c five x ray defending e seven. And black is fine here. Black is much better actually up in exchange. So anyways, that's another way for white to be worse after an IGA. White can also try the move bishop to d four, which is almost as popular as f four. And here you have to know the move queen to a five, get the queen out. And there is a very important line where white plays the move e six. And again, if you don't know the theory, it's easy to get overwhelmed here because you can't take the pawn because you dropped the bishop. And a mistake would be to take the bishop, allowing white to get the queen into d four and hit the rook in the corner. So instead, all you have to do here is get the night out to f six. Night f six, and black is better. And black is better because even though the king gets out to f seven, it's perfectly safe here. And black has a massive pawn center. Bishop c four check is met with d five. And if bishop b three, then black has an incredibly strong move here, which is a direct product of white delaying the castling. Who can spot this move? Kind of a classic idea. Yeah, it's e five. It's e five. This is an important move to have in your sort of toolkit. And if white takes on e five, some two hundreds, 23 hundreds have played like this rookie eight. White has to play f four. And now I like the top engine move. Nike four is great. Also good is the move queen to b six to prevent white from castling. And if queen f three, you prevent white from castling queen's side by playing this mysterious looking move bishop to h six. But it's not mysterious if you consider how you prevent castling. Now, you can take e five upon enough forest pint, so you've prevented white from castling either side. And now the king is stuck in the center where it is going to be massacred by a combination of forces. Nike four, bishop a ah six is going to be very strong. This is like minus plus. And White's pieces are biting on granite on D five. That's another nice line. If White takes the other way, E takes D seven, well, then black plays bishop takes D seven. Check. And for example, if white plays bishop to C four, very strong. Here is the move bishop to G four with the idea of meeting F three. Another trick with rook to D eight. And if FG four, C five and you're going to lose the bishop on D four, black is going to get a devastating initiative here. Just devastating. One thing you should never be afraid of in these types of positions is moving your king. It's okay to move your king because White is getting crushed in the center castle's CD. And white loses a minor piece because if the knight moves, you lose the bishop. Otherwise, black takes the night. The rook on D eight is protected. So this is a short overview of what to do after knight takes E six and E five, which are definitely going to face if you play the accelerated dragon for any length of time. All right, so in the game, our opponent plays this move, A three, which is obviously a very strange move. It's not a very good move. I see that it has been played a fair number of times. But I think bishop C four is a follow up mistake after which White is simply in huge trouble. I mean, White should probably go bishop E two to avoid the center fork trick. But even here, even here, um, black, I think, should just go D five. And black is definitely slightly better. I mean, white has literally just wasted a move for no reason. I see that seven games continued ed five, Nd five, NC six, PC. And you should never be afraid of this pawn structure in the accelerated dragon because it's compensated by the tremendous activity of your pieces. If you look at the knight and your bishop, they're both aiming at the night on C three. White is in trouble here. If Bishop D four, then you can play knight takes C three and White is forced to ruin their pawn structure. For example, Bishop C three, now you trade. Now you get your queen to a five. And the attack on C three is very powerful. The rook is coming to D eight. This is again, minus over plus is the evaluation here. So everywhere you look, black is already better here. But bishop C four exacerbates the situation because of knight takes C four. And, uh, I wouldn't say that the game is over, but it's definitely borderline lost for White. Perhaps white should play bishop takes F seven. Check. And you should remember that when you face the center fork trick, the recommendation is usually to do what our opponent did, or no, not to do what our opponent did. The recommendation, when you're facing the center fork trick, uh, in most openings is to keep your bishop pair with a move bishop to D three. So, for instance for instance, let me take another opening where the center fork trick is common. Let's take a very primitive example. So in the four nights, if you play Bishop C four, black has the move knight takes C four. And here, after knight takes C, only way for White to not be worse is to play this move bishop to D three and Black has to recapture. And then White is able to preserve the bishop pair. And white is doing okay. Here the position is equal. Okay, I can show you in the perk, right in the perk, there's a line where essentially here, whatever bishops E four. Castles, castles. Here, black can take on E four. And again, in this position, the best move for White is Bishop to D three. De Bishop e four. And White is considered a little bit better in this line. But if we compare this to the position we had in our game, white essentially cannot do the same thing. Because if White plays Bishop D three here, then we actually can take the other knight and we're just a pawn up. And if White takes first and then plays Bishop D three, which might have been the lesser evil, this might have been the best that White can do. But here, in addition to taking the spawn, after which White is much worse, the engine actually recommends the devilish move bishop to a six, preventing White from castling and keeping the king confined in the center. And if White takes bishop C six, now we play bishop B two. And if White takes the rook, we give a nice little check on a five. And look at this line. If Queen D two, bishop C three wins the queen. If Bishop D two, the queen swings to E five, then the bishop drops back to C three. And again, White loses the queen in all of his other pieces. So this is the power of preventing your opponent from castling when you yourself are castled and in total safety. So anyways, this is why Bishop D three is not possible here. Now, our opponent's choice definitely made things worse for her, I think. Probably White should just castle here. Probably White should just castle here. And after DC, I mean, at least White's King is not unsafe. Of course we're still up upon we still have an attack on B two. It's minus plus. But of course the game continues. Sometimes you just got to castle out of it. White went into this endgame, but as it turns out, this endgame is just totally lost because the attack on B two is completely unstoppable. I mean, White probably has to play this move to stave off immediate defeat. But we're not even going to talk about this. Black is up a pawn here, and White is completely paralyzed. And you could even carry. Out a similar idea to what we did in the game. You could play like F five and then E five and creep up with your pawns in the center. And White is just, uh, totally out of squares. So this is this is awful. Okay, rugby one, bishop takes E three. The game is over immediately, and we don't have to talk about the rest. Uh, so, pretty one sided, but a good introduction to the accelerated dragon. As you can see, even at this level, a lot of players feel very lost on the white side of the accelerated because it's not the most common Sicilian and it's not that often taught. And, uh, hopefully this gave you a good illustration of some of the introductory lines. Especially we talked about knight takes C six at length, but the key thing to remember is you're not afraid to bring the knight back to G eight. And don't be afraid to analyze this with an engine on your own as well. The main line, by the way, the main line here is bishop C four castles, and then Bishop back to B three. Why does white need Bishop B three? Well, you already know the reason for that. Here. Black again has the center fork trick with 94. And by contrast to the game continuation, this is a better version for White. And here, White can in fact, play bishop D three and reach this position. But it is considered that black is even slightly better after queen C seven because you get the semi open B file, you get the D file, and the accelerated bishop on G seven is just super, super strong here. But hopefully I will even make Morocc's kind of interesting. All right, let's get in another game unless there are any questions. This was a very straightforward one, but I can't control how our opponents play. We can only control how we play. All right, hope you enjoyed the speedrun. Bye. You.