Have you ever wondered what's inside one Well then, this is the video for you! The short answer is, not a lot really. The longer answer has to do with how electric because this isn't actually a charger. The industry name for this device is EVSE, Kinda weird that we're calling it "an than this video is already guaranteed to be. Fundamentally, this device is merely a controlled I've been wanting to make this video for thanks to a series of interactions on Twitter. You know who you are. First, qualifications; this video is discussing Those of you with your fancy three phases yes, I know they exist in Europe, Australia, so mentioning them is irrelevant. DC Fast Charging, the most famous system of is not where we're headed either. Not today, anyway. Instead, this video is about quote unquote and the devices which make that work. Unless you plan on exceeding your vehicle's range in a day (in other words are doing long distance travel) this is how the vast majority I very much hope we focus on getting more those who need a car but don't live in a percentage of the population reliant on DC thus replicating the fueling infrastructure we have today but with high-speed chargers instead of gas pumps. Plugging in at home or at work is not only but requires less radical infrastructure and from my perspective seems a lot easier to manage on a connected smart grid. But the main reason why I hope we go with is because these things are stupidly simple devices. I said earlier that these aren't chargers; Let's explain what I mean. Most things we call chargers are really DC Yes even those aren't often really chargers. They contain electronic circuitry designed to turn AC mains voltage into a defined and stable DC voltage; in the case of standard The charging is done by the device you give because it knows how to treat its battery best. Electric cars are pretty much the same. In the case of Level 1 and 2 charging, they But they go one step further than your phone Because electric vehicles come in all sorts and battery pack voltages, it's not really feasible So it isn't. This device has no voltage conversion circuitry it needs for its own electronics. A reminder to the keyboard warriors out there; we're not talking about DC fast charging in this video. This device has one job and one job only. To safely deliver AC power to a car. The car itself contains the battery charger. Want to see it? Well, in the Chevy Bolt EV it's here. These four boxes represent all of the electrical The Bolt's Bits. Up on top here to the left is a junction box to the inverter module and high-power accessories and cabin heater. Below it is the inverter module which actually and recovers charge under regenerative braking. On the right up top you have a DC-DC converter and steps it down to 13.8 volts or so to power (in other words this is the equivalent of an alternator And below it is the onboard charger. Side-note, a lot of you may be asking why Technically, it doesn't *need* it but the easier if you can run conventional things the computers, etc off of low voltage. It's easier because it means the things don't need to change - imagine a 400 volt And it's safer because, well for one you don't but more importantly when the car contactors inside the battery open removing traction battery voltage from everything. What are contactors? Well, you'll find out shortly. You can actually hear those contactors close [two dinstinct thunks] [Classic General Motors Seatbelt Bong] Or plug it in. [A single clunk, followed by a beep] And obviously when the high voltage system you need something else to close those contactors and turn it back on, and that's why the bulk of the car's control systems run at the conventional 12 volts and why there's Anyway, again, this is the onboard charger. It's kind of hard to see in situ, if you'd I can't recommend this video from the Weber Automotive YouTube channel highly enough, it's fantastic. Also everything is a lot cleaner. But this module here is the actual charger. It takes AC power coming from the car's boosts that up to the battery pack's required charge Inside the pack itself you've also got various modules which monitor each cell and help balance everything out. Now, here's where things get a little complicated The car's onboard charger may be capable than a given circuit can safely provide. It's the EVSE's job to tell the car how and then to supply it with voltage when requested. Let's now take a closer look at the device This is a Siemens VersiCharge unit, a fairly It has a NEMA 6-50 plug on one end, and the Since 2010, every single battery electric that doesn't begin with T and end in From the Chevy Volt, the Ford Focus Electric, the Toyota Prius Prime, the Kia Soul EV, the Hyundai even the Wheego LiFe, This connector is part of the universal nationwide capable of delivering up to just deliver between 6 and 7.2. This unit, like many out there, is rated for it can deliver between 6.2 and 7.2 kW. We find a user interface on the front of this The most useful thing this does is allow you in two hour increments, a fairly easy way to take if your utility offers them. Though it should be noted most cars can do even program that based on GPS location so but only between certain times at home. A lot of the symbology on here is, I believe, think this unit has any sort of WiFi connectivity Oh, and of course it has fancy lights on it if you don't get to be smug about? Let's now open it up. You might be surprised to learn that most The unit is way larger than it actually needs to help your smugness, and partly because it The power leads from the plug (which interestingly the white wire should be red since there is no neutral but whatever) go to a terminal block, allowing you to replace the plug or hardwire the unit if so desired. One reason to do that is that this particular if installed and wired properly. From there a few small feeders go to the circuit board, and two large conductors go to one side of a contactor. Out the other side of the contactor you'll see that it goes to the main conductors of the charge cable. This contactor is the single control device A contactor is simply an electromagnetic switch. When energized it closes, connecting When it's open, it doesn't. That's it. That's all these devices do. They're a fancy light switch. [loud CLACK of contactor] But it is a critical safety device and what Let's talk about that part first. Keep in mind that the car is the load. The charger is inside the car. This device is simply a gateway to the grid. It is labeled as though it's a 30A device which makes things easier for regulators and electricians, but in reality the device itself The car is where the load actually comes from. So first and foremost, it needs to tell the The device can only supply 30A because it's Technically it's allowed provide up to 32 continuously, and truthfully I don't know why they capped it at 30, but anyway the device needs to tell "Hey! Don't pull more than 30A. You'll make trouble if you do." And it does that through very rudimentary So, here's a close-up of the pins on the And now on the plug side. This one helpfully labels which pin is which. The three largest pins are Line 1, Line 2/Neutral, and a safety ground or protective earth. If you're confused on why pin two is only out this video I recently made on the US electrical In short, we use split phase power, and on but on a 120V circuit only one of them is. The other smaller pins are the control pilot Let's start with proximity. The main purpose of these pins is to tell the car and the On the EVSE side, the proximity pilot and allows the car to know it's plugged into This completely passive method ensures that even if the EVSE is faulty or there's no power to it, it knows it's connected to an EVSE and won't let you shift from park. A well-thought-out design preventing the careless The control pilot is a little more complicated, If it's awake and ready to charge, the EVSE puts a 1 kHz square wave signal out on the control pilot pin. Without a car plugged in, that circuit is but when a car is plugged in, just as there's a resistor there's a resistor on the car for the EVSE side. In fact, the car can manipulate the resistance Per the spec, when the car is connected it protective earth and the control pilot pin. This signals presence to the EVSE. To request power the car lowers that resistance That will cause the EVSE to close the contactor, There is also a very special and rare case resistance further to 246 ohms to signal that This is used to prevent such a hypothetical vehicle I'm not aware of any consumer-facing applications but if you were ever wondering why your charger says "ventilation not required" on there - that's why. It's to prevent such a car (perhaps one a lot of hydrogen when charging? Really not sure what would require ventilation) But anyway, to prevent such a car from being charged with this supply. Most importantly, though, that 1kHz square is pulse-width modulated to signal the maximum charge current the car is permitted to take. That is arguably the single most important See, a Chevy Bolt has a 7.2 kW onboard charger. That happens to match the rating of this EVSE But what if I wanted to charge it on a smaller Say I had installed a 3.6 kW charger on a The car needs to know it's only allowed or else it would overload the circuit and trip the breaker. Which is of course inconvenient, but also and if it's faulty you could very Better to not tempt fate. The EVSE is also monitoring the circuit for should one occur. They're usually designed to self-reset at least a few times so that you aren't left without a charge in the morning. And they'll also self-test things like the other various protections. But at a core level, all this does is announce and wait for a signal to initiate charging. Then it goes *CLACK* and the car does the rest. So if these are merely fancy light switches, It's not exactly hyperbole to say the functions a contactor from an air conditioning unit, a power supply, and a willing middle schooler. The answer? [incredibly annoying rising &quot;ehhhh&quot; sound] OK well in fairness, there are plenty of options which can provide all that this car can take for around $300. The greatest cost of installing a charging circuit to wherever you need it to be. Which is why it would be *great* if we could for garages in new building codes. But anyway, the charger itself need not be I believe I've said this a few times now, but The greatest cost in these units is almost It's a fairly specialized and quite beefy a fair bit of abuse. This entire unit weighs something like 20 pounds but the vast majority of that is just this cable. The actual unit is a plastic box. The connector itself is designed for 10,000 should last a couple of decades in a private The connector's handle is also a little Can you hear the little microswitch in here [clicky clicky noise] This actually adds another resistor across which signals to the car that it's about This is actually among the most elegant parts More or less the instant the car sees that it stops pulling power from the grid. That means that when you interrupt a charge has stopped before the pins are actually separated which prevents arcing and prolongs the life of both Pretty neat. Now, just because these devices are really room for innovation here. The biggest limitation with this standard with the charger other than to say "please provide power" and (rarely) "I need ventilation." There really isn't anything like negotiation of the characteristics of the car such as indeed maximum charging rate. That could be quite useful for things like should that ever come to fruition. Let's talk about load sharing because that multi-family residential situations. Here, Tesla currently leads the way by quite Load sharing allows a given circuit to provide the current each vehicle can pull when more Say you have a 40 amp circuit like this thing is on. Well, you could put all of the allowed 32 and thus one vehicle, but you could also share See, a 40 amp circuit like what supplies this is capable of providing roughly 600 miles of driving range over a 24 hour period. But if you typically drive just 40 miles in a day, on a typical day. Sharing it among multiple charge points allows for So long as the charge points can talk to each are plugged into them to pull less current As individual vehicles are unplugged or finish they will allow the remaining vehicles to pull more current. Now this isn't unique to Tesla but right now and also most economical solution available through their quasi-proprietary wall connectors. Up to 16 gen 3 wall connectors can share a wirelessly, which greatly simplifies installation. While spreading even 60 amps (the max supported leaves a paltry sum for each vehicle, the it's to allow things like shared to have more charging points with less capital It is very unlikely that all 16 units will and Tesla has one other advantage up their sleeve here. Because Tesla is Tesla they'll have absolutely no reservations about allowing direct communication between the cars and the wall connectors. It's my understanding that the Tesla wall connectors they just use Tesla's proprietary so I don't think they talk through the charge I'm absolutely certain I'll be corrected But the good thing is that this allows non-Tesla with an adapter. Thankfully. That's why they're not quite proprietary. Barely. But if Tesla vehicles can talk to each other through some other means like WiFi, they can communicate their states of charge and rather than split the available current equally, it can be prioritized to vehicles with lower charge. From my perusal of the manual of the Gen3 prioritization feature is currently live, be quite soon via a firmware update. Still though, similar solutions are available and indeed inside this Siemens unit there are some connections which make me think it can be bonded to other units and even limit its charge rate based on a little potentiometer I saw in there but anyway those companies don't have the advantage of vertical integration and so their products tend to be a little more expensive. That's the downside of serving everybody Plus right now, there's no codified state-of-charge However, that could change. A proposed update to the SAE J1772 standard [through gritted teeth] would enable real vehicle-to-charger integration using power line communication protocols. That would help enable my personal EV charging I would love for power utilities to start installing Help get people in apartment buildings set up, and those who live in areas with on-street parking only. If the car can communicate with the EVSE, an EV driver can register their car, plug it in and have the electricity it uses automatically added to their own personal electric bill. Public charging today is a mess of competing in one way or another, and maybe that's where would just step in. Plus, if the car can tell the grid its state-of-charge, be easy to implement without stranding drivers. And, should backfeeding of the car's charge well that's a perfect way to make that happen. If you're a policy maker and/or someone I'd just like to say I really think you oughta start looking If you had L2 chargers everywhere, you incentivize and if their cars are able to feed the grid in times of excess demand, well now you have access to battery storage which you didn't need to pay for. And yes I know that idea is unsettling to many is that you could potentially offer incentives into vehicle design that every EV has a 10% That way there's some battery capacity that they don't even know they have and never affects their range. There's so much we could do, all it takes is some imagination and willingness to regulate some things. Which is obviously a pretty tough sell in the US But for now, your garden variety EVSE is a Even Tesla's wall connectors when installed individually really don't do anything more than this does. If I can give a piece of advice to those who their own charger in a private garage, it have an electrician install a NEMA 6-50 receptacle. I installed this one myself, and yes I know I'm getting to it. Anyway, many EVSEs are available with this It will allow effortless changes in the future, your EVSE happens to develop a fault of some then you can simply replace it yourself in mere moments. Though as I hope I've shown you, there really It's just a fancy light switch. Thanks for watching. I hope with this video I've explained that There's a lot more we could do and in my for more people, and to help leverage them The real challenge is how to get EV charging and areas with street-parking only. Tesla deserves praise for their innovation will eventually join the rest of the automotive in North American charging standards that as of 2020 they alone are maintaining for a competitive advantage. I know, I can't help myself here, but I but to let the less-familiar with the EV world know and connector exists for all vehicles not And also to get some of the more die-hard and what that might mean for the future adoption Yes, you may wish to bring up that Tesla went now were not yet finalized, and they totally EVs wouldn't be taken seriously were But a robust standard exists now that every They owe it not just to future Tesla owners And better do it now than later. Just for context, that little orange thing That covers the high-power DC pins of this Again, every modern EV and plug-in hybrid has a J1772 connector, and by augmenting it with DC fast charging was added without removing compatibility with existing Level 1 and 2 AC infrastructure. Now that Nissan has dropped the competing every new EV will soon have this exact plug or it will be a Tesla. And don't tell Tesla loyalists but these the connector needlessly bulky can handle If Tesla chooses to support CCS in the North in Europe and China, I will be so delighted I'll make But until that day, I will remain incredibly automaker holding onto a proprietary connector. That doesn't help move electric vehicles Anyway, let's cut to black before I get interoperably smooth jazz [various sounds of struggle] This isn't awkward at all... Up on top here to the left is a junction box which splits out tractshion [said a little weridly] This line is a tongue-twister! Oh my god I'm just looking at all those technical words that I wrote down there... [sighs] Great. But they go one step further because... oooh, skipped a line! That's exciting! But when a car is plugged in, just as there's a resistor on the EVSE seuh be dueh nuh enunciation failed a little bit. ...downside of serving everybody and not just - I should've - I didn't write, see the thing about the connections that are in here; I didn't write that in because I didn't open this 'till later. Is not where we're headed today either. Oh, shoot! Did you know it's really that simple? Did you know that the car is where the charger lies? Some of you undoubtedly did, but if this is news to ya I hope it makes you think more positively about the situation. It really isn't anywhere near as complicated as some people make it out to be. SUPPORT CCS, ELON!