I want to tell you a story about when I moved I was 30 years old, and I was moving to what was known as one of the most dangerous big cities And every night, I would go out with my friends and at the end of every night and we would pool all of our money, and we would figure out how everyone because you couldn't go home and you couldn't walk home, and if you were a woman, you definitely at one o'clock in the morning That's what it meant to be in this I used to live in the sixth floor and my bedroom faced the fire escape. And even in the summer, I had to keep my window closed because I was scared that somebody into my apartment. And then one day I woke up and I realized And I kept the window open. And I realized that when I was we weren't having that conference We were just going home. This city that I had thought, was one of the scariest wasn't scary anymore. And I remember at the time I was absolutely transfixed I couldn't understand it. It was the same city full of the same same buildings, same institutions. Only nobody was murdering And I would call up criminologists and I would ask them, And no one could give me And I remember one day -- New York University has a library I used to go to Bobst to look for ideas. And I remember one day I was on the sixth HM-1A6, and I was reading back issues, yes, I was, back issues of the American and I ran across an article from 1991 by a guy named Jonathan Crane called "The Epidemic Theory And I'm going to read to you how it began. &quot;The word epidemic the high incidence of social The news is filled with feature epidemics of gang violence, The term is used loosely but turns out to be remarkably apt.&quot; And what Crane was saying is that if you look at these kinds they behave, they come and they go, they rise and they fall He was saying that that term It's a literal description. And I'll never forget when I read and I was standing and, you know, it's a library. It's got that hush And I'm reading this crazy and I remember thinking to myself, oh my God, that's what We had an epidemic of crime. And what is the hallmark of an epidemic? It's the tipping point. It's the moment when the epidemic or crashes all at once. And so I wrote an article called &quot;The Tipping Point,&quot; which was my attempt to use this theory And then I, because of that article, got a contract for a book which did very well. And that book led to another book And I am standing here today because of that moment (Applause) So &quot;The Tipping Point,&quot; my first book, I talked about Hush Puppies But at the heart of it was a chapter And in that chapter I talked a lot about a theory which was a very famous idea that had been pioneered called George Kelling very influential article, in which they argued that very small can be triggers for larger crimes. That essentially small are tipping points for very serious things like murder or rape It was an epidemic theory of crime, and the New York City Police Department And one of the things they began to do was to say what this argument means is that we can't be passive anymore. We have to be proactive. We have to go out there and if someone is jaywalking or doing graffiti we've got to stop them. And if we see a young man and he looks a little bit suspicious, we've got to stop him That's how the NYPD interpreted the broken windows theory in New York. And my chapter was how millions came to understand that it was all broken windows. And here's the thing about that explanation I gave I was wrong. I didn't understand this when I went back and I decided on the 25th anniversary that I would write a sequel. It's called &quot;Revenge and I went back and, for the first I reread my original book. I'm not someone who likes and it was a uniquely It was like looking back You know, when you see yourself &quot;Wow, I look young,&quot; and also, &quot;Wow, I really wore that?&quot; It was like that. And what I realized since I wrote that explanation the theory of broken windows There was a kind of classic to see whether that theory worked. And the natural experiment maybe one of the most famous called Floyd v City of New York. It involved a young man named David Floyd, who had been stopped a number and was the face of a class action lawsuit that said the practice largely young men of color, just because they look is not constitutional. You can't do that, right? And to everyone's surprise, the Floyd lawsuit And the federal judge rules And overnight, the broken windows era in New York City policing ends. And the NYPD goes from -- In 2011, they stopped and frisked And after the Floyd lawsuit that number drops to less than 50,000. So this is the perfect natural experiment. You have New York before Floyd Before Floyd, the principal tactic of the NYPD And after Floyd that goes away. They can't do that anymore, right? This is the perfect test case for whether you think that's why And if you believe in the power then your expectation has to be when broken windows goes away, crime is going to go back up, right? And I should tell you that in 2013, everybody thought crime The NYPD thought that, the city government thought that, the pundits thought that, even the judge who wrote the opinion saying that stop and frisk said in her opinion that as a result of this opinion, I thought crime was going All of us had internalized We said, yes, we know this strategy poses but what choice do we have, right? You know, if the choice is being stopped maybe we're better off This is the price we pay So what happens after the Floyd case? Stop and frisk goes away and crime falls. In fact, crime in New York City even more miraculous decline, right? And what's interesting when the first crime you see that decline almost not quite as steep as New York, but crime goes down everywhere. And then in every other city But New York gets rid of broken windows, and crime starts to fall and fall To the point by 2019 that New York City is as safe as Paris, which is not a sentence I ever thought And what we realize is that it wasn't broken windows. It's not indiscriminate policing Rather, it is the intelligent and selective application that causes crime to fall. Now, there's a couple of really One is that people don't seem that New York underwent this second, even more dramatic crime fall. People still act like it's the year 2000 when it comes to making sense of New York. You know, a whole bunch of very, have very loudly left New York And they all say, when they're packing up &quot;We can't take the crime anymore.&quot; Well, violent crime in Miami If they were really concerned they would leave Coral Gables and move to the Bronx, where it is a whole lot safer. (Laughter) (Applause) The other even more is that people act No one seems to have of the great Floyd case If you listen to people -- I'm not but people going around the country they will say things like, &quot;It's time to bring back stop and frisk It worked so well in New York.&quot; They're acting as if we didn't have that great moment And for that, for that misunderstanding, I think I bear some of the blame. I was the one who wrote this book saying this was the greatest tactic Now, how do I make sense of my mistake? Well, I can give you all kinds of excuses. You know, I can say I didn't know that David Floyd 10 years after I wrote my book and give us this great test case You know, I could say that, you know, I was just writing what everybody believed But I don't think those excuses I think that journalists, writers need to be held I wrote -- (Applause) I told a story about how and I told the story And like I knew what the answer And it wasn't over and I didn't know the answer, right? I wrote, &quot;I know this is what happened,&quot; and what I should have said is &quot;This is what I believe And those words &quot;I believe happened now&quot; have to be at the center of how the world works. We have to acknowledge the position of this very moment, and that that position could change The great desire of any writer that will forever explain but that's not possible, and no one should ever try. That was my mistake. And I'm sorry. (Applause) Monique Ruff-Bell: And so I have a couple If you don't mind, to that version of yourself. And so you talked about how about what crime was happening I grew up in New York Being in my early 20s and having these experiences where they experienced unfortunate so much so they had anxiety, And so when you were thinking did you ever think what if it was wrong and innocent people What were your thoughts Malcolm Gladwell: I mean, it's funny, I went, when I was sort of what I did wrong in that chapter, I went down to Philadelphia and I went and met all of them Black, because they had done some and I wanted to get their sense. And one of the doctors had read And she said, &quot;You know, you were exceedingly interested --&quot; I opened that chapter the guy who shot the kids on the subway. And she said, &quot;Go back and reread and you'll realize you spent a lot of time and you have two sentences on the kids. And the kids were every bit And I realized, I think I was just in -- like so many of us, and I was seeing the problem And like many, you know, middle- and upper-class I wasn't thinking about the world through the eyes of someone And some of that has to do with youth, and some of that has to do And I'd like to think MRB: Right. So you had a quote -- (Applause) &quot;I told this story like I knew How has that insight affected MG: I've tried to be, I mean, I realize I was way too certain about the ideas And I thought that if you wanted you had to communicate certainty. And now I realize that you're more willing, you're more capable of winning when you admit to the uncertainty People want that. They like that, they appreciate that spirit far more. And people are much more likely, I think, to be suspicious of someone MRB: Well, we appreciate you bringing and sharing that. And so thank you (Applause)