If you're a rat in a lab and you use LSD. The experience that you have that you cannot fathom You and I imagine you, there are these giant monkeys And now you take LSD for the first time. Like, what does amaze me? Like, where am I going? Why do I like cheese so much? What is it that drives me? And now you seeing the universe You're thinking about cats If I was if I was a rat in a lab, I need to chill on this. I need to, I just need to think about And this is what now with Trevor Noah. Do you think do you think this could be the first topic Which is made me, like, afraid, Yeah. Because normally there's some overlap. Or I can even see where you're coming Oh, you you don't even think So help me understand this. Yeah. We say we're going to have a top. We're going to have a conversation. We're going to we're going He has single handedly changed the perception of, of I mean, like millions and millions And it's it's not only psychedelics, this is your mind on plants, And he's written a beautiful account we see the world of what we take. One of my favorite books of his how we see coffee versus you know, mushrooms or marijuana It's just it's a drug And so that's why it's allowed to So he's explored everything. But it's interesting how now and we'll is it's like now go to guy on mushrooms and psychedelics and yes, it's funny you say he's the guru, but he's not even trying He's like, no, it's not because I guess I'm just a guy that's like, oh, yo, everyone's like, you are the guru. Where do I score myself some dope shrooms? Yeah, but it's funny you. I've never seen you recoil like this. I know, I know, Even I may have prayed about it. Oh, wow. Yeah, I was just like. I don't want people at home to think like, Lock them up. Conservatives about people. Okay. Do recreational drugs. Okay. But I may be a little bit okay. No, I think it just Is, is this Because for me, like, and my perception of drugs. So I didn't touch weed my whole life. Okay. So I'll even take it Drugs? my mom my dad doesn't drink, All right. So I grew up in a home My grandmother, etc.. And my mom said to me when I was 13, 12, 13, maybe even younger, she came to my room and she had cigarets and she had, beer. And she said to me, do you want. And and I was like, oh, this is a trap. Obviously this is a trap. And I was I was almost disappointed. And I was like, You're going to come into my room And she was like, do you want, And I was like, no, because And then she said to me, listen, I hear you're going to you're going to encounter you going to encounter So if you're going to use it, and then you use it at home. Yeah. And then I don't worry you know, hiding it from me where you can't share Exactly. Some things. Which is why I let my mom super religious and super strict Yeah. And so then she didn't even know So it's good And then he was like, Trevor, what's up? And she said he wants to try cigarets. And the guy was like, And he gave gave us the cigarets. And I puffed with him and I was like, This is. So I was like, You know what I mean? It it tastes like someone's like and then forcing it into your, And then the alcohol beer just tastes like like old water that has, you know, I don't like I don't like it. So I didn't like any of that. And then drugs Instead of that initial experience. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. In fact, drugs the way I grew up was You are going to end your life. That's how I knew that. Now that was just what you, that's That's all I was told. These are the things that will happen So I didn't I didn't touch weed. I smoked weed for the first time Okay? That's how like anti-drug. I used to judge people and I would it is a pity that you've chosen to do this I used to say that to my cousin Okay. Yeah, I think it's all of those things All right. But yeah, I just. Are you open to a conversation about. I'm open to a conversation. And I think the thing that bothers me I'm not nuanced because I pride myself. I'm being like gray area nuance. Both side is in movement. Yeah. And on this I'm like, Okay. So yeah, The mum has just emerged and is just here. But and the more I seem to read, That's why Oh, that's that's an interesting one, well, welcome to the podcast. But like, let me ask you this. Do you, do you think or do you find that people become more open even the idea of psychedelics Or do you find that I find when people, read, There are a couple things And by the way, Christiana, It's I'm going to advocate for that. That's what I'm going to advocate. It's perfectly okay not to do these drugs. When I started talking about this, right and I was talking to various when I spoke in positive terms I found that unless I started talking there was always a person more about it. This person would not open her ears. So I learned in my conversations for what have turned out to be substances. And the key was, let's talk about risk Can you get addicted to substances? Can you overdose on these substances? Because I, I came very late. My I didn't use a psychedelic I was somebody who, and lots of responsibilities. And, and I did a lot of investigation. Well, how dangerous are these things? And I found that And it's important to define LSD, mushrooms or psilocybin DMT, but not ketamine and not, MDMA. These are not technically psychedelics. There is no recorded lethal dose. that's quite remarkable because you have if you have Tylenol But but before, you know, before Michael, I love I love the idea and I've actually seen you do this My favorite encounter with with Michael was, we were at an event and then Oprah Winfrey, Gayle King and Ava DuVernay. And we all this is like a, like a with motley crew of people And I don't know if it was Oprah or Ava who starts off and says, wait, And and I'm like, This whole thing, do you know? And I'll never forget, like, speaking, Oprah's face got more and more concerned. Gayle looked at me You know how Gayle is like. Gayle looked at me like, oh, Trevor, And even look like the cops were about to, And it was interesting to watch speaking, The first thing you talked about was, hey, You've got to be worried you know, the physical aspect you've got. And I watched them slowly from the outset of a conversation And so maybe, maybe we can talk So what? So what are the risks then like if, what are like for somebody like Christiana You guys are putting yourself at so much What what are the actual risks. Well if you use if you put LSD given two levers to press, you know, with, amphetamines, cocaine, they will press that lever If you put LSD in that set up, Oh, wow. That doesn't sound like an endorsement. No. It's not. I mean, like, no, thanks. Well, I mean, imagine being a rat We don't know what kind of experience There's actually a study underway have, the sort of mental, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. All we know now is they head twitch and that's not very useful for research. So those are so, so no risk of addiction. Yeah. no risk of overdose. The risks are of a psychotic break. I mean, there are people sometimes it's just. It looks like a psychotic experience, there's a wonderful story that, Doctor Andrew Wild tells about working free Clinic in 1968 who had had a lot of experience And the doctors were all saying, you know, having LSD induced psychosis. Yeah. And he goes into a little examining room flipping out and he takes a few notes, There's someone in real trouble And as soon as he said that, wow, I'm not so fucked up as I thought There's somebody fucked up in me, so he understood what was going on but people do flip out, I think, if you're, someone who's with you to talk you down But without question, the bad trip is real And that, you know, as Trevor said There's a there's to alcohol or cocaine. That's not true with psychedelics. Everybody has their own experience. And, a lot of it depends, as Timothy Leary you've got to be in the right mindset where you're not worried about the Fedex or a call from your mother. Michael, let me ask you this. I distinctly remember, the the the conversation around weed, you want to call it changed when white all of a sudden, America was like, Tell me more Snoop Doggy Dogg, It started changing. Well, how to change your mind? My my book about it was, in 2018. And at that point, who were using psychedelics And one of the things that's happened and none of the scientists an experience on the record, they'd do it but that everything changed, in the, And it became acceptable, for people but I think the big thing is the taboo, you know, has has lifted right. It was, it was mom's doing it. But what happened first was they rebranded cannabis Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah patients and people with wasting syndrome And remember, we started with medical And it may be the same which are getting a lot of attention But, you know, as one of my sources for the betterment of, well, people also, Yeah. So, so far, though, there are two paths, really. There's a medical path There's also a spiritual path. There are a lot of people There was a really interesting study, that I'm writing about different faiths were given a high dose they might have on the religious visions And what did they find? Well, a lot of these people Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Dying. Yeah, people. It really hard times in their lives And many of the ones I talked to They all had divine encounters So that's it's kind of what you'd expect. The Buddhist, the Buddhist said, I when I interviewed her, And she said, I traveled to a realm beyond Oh, I love that. It's a very it was a very short interview. There was no where to go from there. But others, had a very they were really surprised that the divine And in many cases, I think the majority, And that blew some of their mind. I love that God is a woman. I can get by And so now we've got her What's what? Okay, wait, so what's what's the thing when you think about it? What is so funny? I was what's the scariest thing The benefits. Wait, what's. Yeah, And I'd love Michael And then I explain why I found it Wait wait wait wait wait wait wait. Yeah, this is interesting. Wait. I thought you're going to tell me Yeah, but all of that stuff which I think if it was invented today, Do you know what I mean? Like, all of that stuff exists with other substances, it was the benefits that was like, And people should just be Pentecostals. But, Michael, I want you to talk what did take me was end of life care. This was the most moving, work that I saw getting done, which was, people with cancer diagnoses, having a guided psychedelic session. This happened at NYU in New York And I interviewed a lot of these people, attitude toward death and their anxiety, changed. Some had the experience of, that something would happen Other people had incredibly naturalistic scenarios in their head I remember one woman describing, that she'd been flying all over the world and was kind of disaggregated, Wow. And she This actually happens, right? Yes. Yeah. But but to feel it I mean but she felt it and and she identified with something to think about her death, in some way she would go on and yes, But that was okay. And this experience of, of of, what's called ego your self has kind of been I mean, this experience of seeing myself explode which then fluttered to the ground and formed this pool of thick blue paint. And, from some new perspective, okay, this is perfectly fine. That's okay. Being a puddle of blue paint, but what happens when your ego dissolves? Is that the barrier your ego is is a wall. It's a defensive structure. Right. And, when the when the walls come down, separating you from whatever is out there. We're going to continue this conversation short break. I have friends who took psychedelics as atheists. and then called me and said, I I'm talking about the most skeptical. Yeah, just like callous individuals. They go like I die You forget, you forget about And then they take they take psychedelics me, look, I don't know what it's called. I don't know who made it or doesn't work. But I now know that it exists a different connection with themselves and with this idea And I, I always wanted to actually psychedelics affect or at least mushrooms Right. So essentially what it does to make assumptions about things, which is Yeah, right. The reason a baby is enamored by a box like, whoa, what is this? Woo! And then at some point you're like, That's why when we, you know, What's it called again. Well the trend you guys know the cake. Yeah. Yeah. But cakes not okay. Yeah. But you know why that messes Yeah, but it's something. Is that cake So one of the reasons that messes with us so much as adults is because it's Babies are constantly living in a world of You with me? Yes. And so when you play peekaboo with a baby, when you cover your eyes, Yeah, right. And then you open your eyes. Idiot. But that's why That's why they And I'm sorry to have this is, this is a that's shortcut to wonder. No, but it's not necessarily I'm, I'm talking about the in creating a fixed idea of what it is Right. Yeah, yeah. But meditate meditation You've never meditated so much that I feel All right. Don't everyone who tells me Everyone okay? Do you know what? I come from a spiritual tradition. What? People really believe in the transcendent Like, I was raised in a Pentecostal They fall on the floor. It's What? They see visions all the time. Like they have and they don't do shrooms. Some of them say I mean, they say it's still true. It's I don't know, I'll be honest with you. And it's true. It's true to people who take psychedelics. They're insights in the same way. Yeah, they're all subjective opinions But the people having these you know, there is brain There are two. Yes. So that so we're talking about, brain or chemicals introduced And I don't know, you know, how important But I think that going back to don't really take in the world We have a set of predictions and beliefs. And so that's why we don't It's just a box and it's just cake. And that, we have stopped, having the kind of, what's sometimes called lantern where they take in information from everywhere and everything's, we have what's called spotlight, consciousness, which is very useful but it, it gives you a kind of focus based on the world And so very little new information Our senses are only being used to correct the predictions that our minds are making. That's it. What psychedelics appear to do is short circuit And what that means is they can help and habits of behavior that you're stuck you know, I'm the kind of person who can't Yeah, this is a prediction about who and the psychedelics, Trevor mentioned plasticity. They make the mind more plastic, temporarily dissolve And that's very useful for people struggling with, eating disorders, people I mean, these are all disorders and you have some habit of thought. You can't break. And psychedelics appears to be able I'm curious, can I'm. Can it be used to treat racism because like that is a pattern. Now that is a to me, that's I mean, I've been so scared because I know It's not a it. It's not a ridiculous question. No. I'm like, God, that's so funny. Some people have anorexia, But a lot of people are. People have racism, right? You or your loved Do you find yourself hating people because of the color of their skin, These are real. Like consider shrooms. Talk to your doctor about shrooms It's a serious question and I like it. Just it caught me off guard. Okay, can it be used to treat racism? So I'm a phobia, etc.? It's a hypothesis that needs to be tested. you know, they they do change people's beliefs. There's a general belief that feeling more like other people, Yeah, more connected to nature, I haven't seen a study but it stands to reason very common feeling of you know, It would be very interesting to test. I mean, racism is a habit of thought, Because I actually thought when you said that thing about like, Yeah, I thought of sure, and these are terrible people, based on predictions and biases. Exactly. Often that they can't help themselves. Like, to me, it's interesting you know, in a way that I think words diverse environments cannot. Well, you know what happens with these experiences to write new stories, about who they are, But you need to be guided through it. The guide would talk to you about that to kind of, solidify a new perception. Yeah, I think I think actually that's that I've seen around psychedelics, people will go, Yeah. And everything will never be the same. And it's perfect. And to what Michael's saying who take mushrooms unintentionally without intention behind the action, All they do is they experience They experience but then they quickly settle back because they've been around But the people who have a guide, or people reintegration, those people spend That is thinking about That's another reason Because the as I understand it right, this the roots of this stuff is indigenous It belonged to a people before And it becomes this thing Hollywood elites and why I don't think it I think people were just taking it, know. But like, it's part of, in a way that it's not connected I am I wrong, Michael? Well, I mean, there is So so so so some psychedelics Psilocybin is one. It was used in Mexico and Central America Peyote Native Americans and Mexicans But LSD, MDMA, you know, these are these are creations of of modern, I think that in general, use of these substances And that I think one of one of the places not paying attention And we figured we could, you know, we could create a whole new context Where are we seeing the biggest changes in the adoption of psychedelics Where are we seeing a thrust coming in America? I think, you know, Silicon where psychedelics are in widespread use. And these are the people who are funding a lot of the studies One interesting community I'm writing a book about consciousness and neuroscientists who are working on are experimenting with psychedelics you know, people who are completely brain consciousness emerges from the neurons, are having experiences of consciousness Yeah. And they're like having and they're having So that's that's really interesting. I don't know how that'll where that'll go. One community that's really important it's a community what is it, 18 suicides a day in America Yeah. And some of them are using it, sometimes going down to Mexico but that they're getting a lot of relief, from trauma I think, you know, of microdosing, which is very low risk, Christiana alluded to it earlier. We don't have a lot of science on it it may be a placebo effect, but there's If it works, it works. And placebos are actually driving but that, I think, makes it very easy that, you know, low risk and that seems to be in many, So much to unpack here for me, part of my rejection of I will, I own that and having a family So there's a lot of stuff And now we have this drug that is coming more into emergence Yeah, yeah. And it is very expensive like it sounds like this is something for people who don't have much money So first of all, about family have family members who have struggled and and that addiction, when you see it It's one of the scariest experiences That's why when I first encountered even considered a drug, I was like, Yeah. I was like, That's how I thought. And then what I came to find these medicines, I would even call them, The I always try and alcohol disconnects you from yourself and psychedelics I've met very few people, I can't believe I did that. And I know alcohol always have a story and then I punch this person. Psychedelics does this. It's strange. It's a strange, different connection and who they actually wish to be, to, like, who they've sort of become, You know, it sounds so religious. No, no, it isn't, it isn't. But but you know, what I like about it religious figure out how it's felt for you Yeah, that's exactly So I think in an optimistic right now, it's expensive. This guides people have made it you know, like, what it like glamping. Yeah. Glamping. Made a glamping right now. But I do think they'll be apps. I do think there'll be Generally. I genuinely think it'll be very short on your phone. So dystopian. No, I know it is in some ways, but. I actually think that that will be what And I think that's going to open. It's in the right way Michael. When people have used psychedelics in the right settings, with the right intention, I've seen people who couldn't They had deep traumas that they've held With all the talk therapy in the world, You know, the feeling you have when you've experienced trauma I've witnessed people lose that. I've seen people shift so much of who Yeah, because of psychedelics. And when we live in a world do what they do because they're stuck how magical it could be to find ourselves First of all, it's There's no like a don't less people feel because they're so depressed, Like, yeah, it feels. And that's and that's what I'm saying, I feel like psychedelic over the, the, Yeah. You know, Right. And we had good. How challenging good challenges this is a work of like prison abolitionist Who are like don't put him in prison. He just needs organic food Right? No, no, no, but okay, let me challenge I think it is beautiful you know, psychedelics as a soul And I think in many ways, it can help with However, this has been as old as time. There will always be something You get you're going to get eaten Okay, well, and don't forget death. I mean, Yeah, But that's very appealing to me. Like, it's very natural, It does. I mean, it's, it's, And we don't we're not very good And so I agree, I mean, the goal should be and that's a worthy goal. And being able to treat people does not in any way diminish But it's going to happen. Yeah. And so you do have to give some thought how you treat people who've had this yeah. You can, you can, I guess, use technology. and maybe I will turn out but I think this is why researchers I mean, that's really how you reach hoping would happen with MDMA, Yeah, actually let's delayed This is my conspiracy theory. I love it already. There's a conspiracy theory. My conspiracy theory is that governments these medicines or these substances They won't formalize them until the pharmaceutical industry Okay. And when they've learned how to synthesize them they're going to sell synthetic versions that nobody can afford. Right. And then what they're going to do people work, just growing and being able That's my problem. Like, I'm sure that's a wonderful DEA No, no, no no no. I'm saying they should just go like, the same way they let you use alcohol, you know, and Michael, you have an opinion on it, once it becomes a formalized medicine and can be for so many people, where you can't get it now or you don't have enough money The official FDA approved. When the thing grows out of the ground, It's the most resilient thing, which is why I think that the means of production But I think you're right. I mean, we saw if you compare that, whose approval was rejected by the FDA to, the approval of, privado or esketamine. This is a form of ketamine, approved for depression. It's a nasal inhaler. They had to do three phase one that showed it worked at all. Wow. And yet it got through. Why? Because it had big pharma behind it. Yeah. And it was also a drug that could be The FDA is totally stumped by the idea psychedelic assisted psychotherapy because you can't remove Yeah, it really is. It's important to its effectiveness, it mitigates the chances and helps And the FDA is not equipped So they kind of threw up their hands. But when the business model is figured out for any of these substances, And then the sort of scenario that Trevor's describing, Don't go anywhere because we got more. What now? After this? And I fit a profile of a person And that's a mother And I guess like it's my kids That exploration is just If it was sex, I'd be like, You know, I, you know, And I'm like, with what we know about how but also their their ability how does a parent discuss this old, 16 year old kid who's interested Is there a safe way for them to do it, Reagan over hear me and just say, don't Like, and I'm just curious about what the conversations around streams And is it even appropriate for like, smoking some weed, but like when you say they're going on a journey Oh my. No no no, that's you know. So Michael. Yeah. Yes. I, you know, I, my son, by the time I got interested, I think. And he had a couple experiences with before you or after Oh, okay. Okay. And, you know, I mean, I'll tell you because it gives you He, he and a friend which is, the in the park above Berkeley They drove up there in our car, They took mushrooms. And his friend became convinced And it was it was about to fall off. And my son could not persuade him And it wasn't a problem. They were in, And, you know, this became a freak out. And they get to a parking lot a sympathetic woman there and says, My son, my Can you drive us to that's that's what they did. And she was able to assure him in a way that his arm was not falling off, And there was nothing to worry about, But, you know, my is the involvement of the car, Yeah, I think and some people But in general, you're talking about, chemicals that, mess with your ego. And it seems to me until you fully developed your ego, And that, you know, kids and boys in into their early 20s, and it seems like I see psychedelics are always very specific about Yeah. And I would say a 13 year old I love that framing. The rite of passage. No, I love that. So it's funny you say that. I so I remember talking to my and we had this whole conversation what is this thing about? Because he knows me. We've And so I said to my youngest the biggest reason I would say to you, And this is why I would say do mushrooms is because hallucinations of what I mean, that is so important And that is a loosening Young people Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's why they they're the ones who start revolutions And the company. It's all the young And so I said to him, I was like, fantastically plastic. Why not keep that? Keep that And I tell this to anyone. I go, you can use mushrooms for fun, When you're stuck, You're stuck in, in, in love And you can't figure out You're stuck in how you see the world That's not try. It's like, try entertaining. You okay? I'll say this as somebody who has done I've done both, I've done Jesus, I've done mushrooms. Jesus is amazing. Jesus is the way, I'm doing the way, the truth and the like. Don't get me wrong, but I always say, I go, don't forget Jesus made wine So even Jesus knew that sometimes Something, you know what I mean? And by the way, I mean, there's a lot of evidence Oh, wow. Are you serious? Oh, yeah. Completely serious. So there's a there are archeologists and they've been looking at, early and they found one in, Spain that had residues of Erik God, which is the fungus from When I know, I know. So there is a theory and it needs There's a good book on this called And but that there is some reason there was another drug and they were trying to give people, the Native Americans And what we have left is, you know, nothing special. But, but once upon a I think what I, I've seen how presidential advisors during the Nixon era and, you know, they specifically set out Yeah, because they felt they undermined And what was America trying to be wars, it bombs other countries, and it makes people clamor And they found when people started they didn't care about being a manager. They didn't care about getting more money They didn't care as much. They cared about other people. They wanted other people to eat. Yeah. And this they felt undermined for the US government. And because I'm someone, yes, like I'm an order, But what I'm saying is you're free No, but what I'm saying that's why I think, like, they've tricked people into believing that there is only one way to have order. Okay. Do you get them saying, yeah, that the only way is if everybody goes to an office as possible, and everybody But when it's ancient tribes, you know, whether it was, whether it was in Africa with Yeah. And this was a tool that they used ironically to maintain that order Yeah. Because because when people are stuck, You know, this is when people now they break, They that's the thing because you go like, oh yeah, I'm Yeah, we're all part of something. Yeah, I think that's my problem. I'm not comfortable with a society and like, profound brokenness Yeah, but I'm fighting. For what? No, Just like this being their best, So. No, no, I want to I'm going to ask. So I'm going to ask Michael about this, You know, I'm talking about. Yeah. Right. And, and and I, I would love to know Michael You are one of the most Did you find that taking psychedelics, or how did it affect Well, you know, is you don't immediately It's kind of overwhelming. Yeah. I think it's like, it's Yeah, there's no money. these are I in a treatment modality, That's it. You know, and the pharmaceutical model for the rest of your life. But without question, You know, they're there. So every society has drugs, right? I mean, it's just a given It's one of the things we do. Children do it when they get dizzy. we're just not satisfied For whatever reason. We have caffeine. we don't even think about that as a drug. but it's a very powerful drug. it happens to be a drug that makes us fit even more smoothly into the machinery It makes us very good workers. And that's why their coffee breaks, right? I mean, think about it. Your employer That's twice a day. That's amazing. So. And then there's alcohol, which although they can get into trouble And there's cigarets that actually various ways. And then they're drugs And and psychedelics in the Western There was a famous quote, from President that his domestic policy advisor, But basically Erlichman said, yeah, that wasn't about public health. That was all about politics. Nixon's great enemies were hippies Yeah. And by making LSD illegal, And by making marijuana illegal, So we have to understand that which drugs are illegal, And it depends on the nature of the drug, What's happening with psychedelics itself, from being this being something that could help people That's the story Whether whether our society can make peace and disruptive molecules. And the answer the jury's still out. Yeah, I, I don't think, I mean, I'm, I'm biased, The people I've met, the research, you know, to what Michael just said, it may interrupt people's yearning to be part of a system Yes, I agree, I can agree with that. Yeah, but but look at Do you know what I mean? Yeah. Like we're bombing other countries that's underneath them, because we want that thing, And all of that yearning. I don't mind if some of that goes down. I, I think because I think people and I think that'll broaden us out again, You get them saying completely freely, I like I know that a lot of my objection And then it's just like being a mother. It's fear, Thanks, Texans. You know, it's just like it's or this loss of yearning or happening. All that terrifies. I couldn't even live through 2020. That was that. And we just had to be in our rooms. And black people were like, And I was like, what's going on here? Like, it was just like I guess it's the British in me. We never really had a revolution, and come from society And there's a king, there's a queen. And, you know, if you're Nigerian, And so like, there's a lot of fear And the ego, because I think that even though I'm like, could be someone else in my life You should try microdosing. Exactly. Or, I mean, even if I never wanted I think I'd want to live in a world I like that some other people, yeah. Because, you know, what we're doing is there's And, you know, some people They're they're, cultural mutagens. That. Right. They're like the Beatles. We don't have the Beatles I don't know what's the Beatles Strummer Yeah. So I think I'm whoa. I'm wondering. Okay, well, I'd take terrible But anyway. Sorry. Yes. Who credited his I mean, I think that you want to have a lot of different kinds and some of them are exploring or frontiers of the self and interiority And, it's not for everybody. but I think that it's, on balance, And the fact that people can achieve which may benefit all of us, I love that. Michael, thank you. Thank you for joining us. You know, I could talk to you for hours because I do believe but rather that there are many people And when you can start to unlock that in people, you just you just change. You know how people when you when you change, how you see the world, Yeah. And I don't know. And the fact we're not even aware of, we're not aware Right. Yeah. I like what psychedelics do is they kind Oh, shit. In fact, that's it. That I would say. I would argue world Like, you see the UN one day at the UN, everybody should have to take psychedelics And then you can start you can only start negotiating when you are fully able to see the world That's what I believe. So, Michael, I'm And you, I like that Let's do it. We're going to do it like the communion. We're just going to spike all the water And then we start. We start guiding them from the front. Michael Pollan, thank you so much. Thank you so much again for joining us. Thank you, guys. And thank you, Christiana, for adding I love it, I love it, I call it hating, I that's going to be the new term. We use hybrid vigor. She's a hybrid vigorous I love it Thank you so much Michael. All right you guys take care okay. So okay so let me let me ask you this. So first of all if we were at 100% no for me personally or for society. No. For you personally. Yeah. Oh okay. We can do both. Okay. So let's let's let's go. Let's go with society. For my for society I'm like 50%. Oh, no. Because I think that's a that's a that's a good jump. I think most people should not be anywhere This is this is fine. I'm willing I'm willing to take you like Yes. Veteran. Yes. You know, people need relief. And however you find a healing in a way that's not harmful, But for everyone I beg out, throw out everyone sometimes. And for you personally. For me personally, got me down to maybe 100% because I don't want to augment So there's nothing in your life and I haven't been able to unstuck. My whole family situation is crazy. Yeah, but I, I can't fix that. No, but I don't think it makes it extended But, like, look what I'm saying. I agree, they're like blocks and stories, Yeah, I feel like someone that I encountered to the divine My children. Yeah. I don't have that yearning for it And that's why I wouldn't say But like I, I, I see the benefits. But Michael's great. You're great. You have changed I have moved somebody I'll take my hybrid vigor. I think I hybrid vigor. What now? With Trevor Noah is produced by Spotify Studios The show is executive produced by Trevor Again, our senior producer is Jess Hackel. Claire Slaughter is our producer. Music Thank you so much for listening. Join me next Thursday I love.