- This is just too much, There are so many ways as a certified coffee nerd snob. I've tried nearly all of them, but for people who it can be really confusing. I'm gonna walk you through some of the most common the pros and cons and who I think each one is best for. (soft drumbeats) The first method is a pour-over. A pour-over requires a brewing cone with a paper filter that you pour water over and it funnels through into There are a number of different This is the Hario V60. Some other popular ones and the Bee house brewer. Another kind of pour-over is the Chemex. has a similar method of making the coffee with a cone and a paper filter. With the Chemex you're doing to other kinds of pour-overs, but you have one single which makes it a little to get in there and wash out the glass. Some people absolutely love Chemexs, some people it's just a The pros of a pour-over are that you can really extract some out of your beans if you That's why coffee nerds love it so much. You have a lot of control So if you like to fiddle around and find exactly what works for you, the pour over is great. And another pro is just that Doing a pour over every It's very meditative and The cons of a pour-over are that it really takes a lot of practice. It's not super easy. It's just hard to get a consistent, perfect cup every single time. Another con is that doing a little investment in some extra gear, such as a digital scale. So you can get the dose and exactly right. Also a gooseneck pouring kettle like this, which lets you pour a of water over your coffee bed. Some people don't think a gooseneck kettle is absolutely necessary, but it does make things So who is the pour-over for? Well it's for coffee you're obsessed with the If you wanna learn and experiment, pour-over is a great method. Next way to brew coffee is With a French press, you put your coffee into this glass carafe but it's steep, which is what's called of brewing coffee. And then you simply press which strains out the grounds That you can just pour it into a mug. Pros of a French press are It doesn't require a whole Just a bit of timing. There's also no paper waste. It does not involve any paper filters. So if being environmentally the French press is a great way to go. The other pro about a French press is that it's fairly cheap. French press brewers cost They're really not expensive. And that's really all and you don't have to Cons of a French press are the type coffee that it really is suited to brew. Which are more rich, heavy body copies. It's not great for brewing And that's because you're instead of paper. And the mesh filter does tend or sediment at the bottom Some people really hate that. Some people don't mind it. The last con is that it is a You can't just dump a paper You have to dump the grounds clean it out each time. It's not a huge deal, but it is a definite con. So who is the French press for? Well it's for people who want convenience without a plugin machine on their counter. It's also for people who really like those rich heavy body coffees. Let's talk about espresso. Espresso is kind of its own beast. It requires a lot of equipment. It's very different than brewed coffee. Pros of espresso is that You can make a lot of different drinks with an espresso base. Especially milk drinks Espresso just also has that Super concentrated, super rich. It really feels like than regular brewed coffee. The cons of espresso are Great espresso machines can cost hundreds if not thousands of dollars and you need a very good grinder. You need a lot of accessories. So it's not a cheap thing to get into. It's also pretty difficult consistent results with People devote hours and to mastering espresso. So if you really wanna just be forewarned. It's not easy. And the last con of espresso is that you only really get a You can't brew a whole pot of Each serving requires its own process. And it just takes a bit of time. Who is espresso for? It's for coffee fanatics who who love experimenting and getting down to the highest quality It's also for people who love milk drinks. If lattes and cappuccinos and espresso might be the way to go. Then you have the ubiquitous Drip machines are one because it's all automated. You just set it and forget Believe it or not if you invest in a good you can get really high quality results. Companies like Bonavita are making really high So you can get great quality coffee without having to resort Cons of a drip machine are that you kinda give up the control. You're at the mercy of the machine. You can't change up the variables. You can't fine tune the And while drip machines are they're not super great at So if you live by yourself, if you're just making coffee the drip machine might So who is a drip machine really for? It's for people who want automation, who don't wanna have to dote over their coffee in the morning, they just want an easy, quick cup. Drip machines are also great for people who are regularly for large groups of people. Next we have the AeroPress. AeroPress is a really unique, interesting kind of coffee maker. And it kind of has a cult following. What you do is you put There's a paper filter at the bottom. And after your coffee brews, you press down and squeeze the coffee into a mug sitting below. Pros of an AeroPress are that There are hundreds of recipes you can try each with their own and it can be really fun to experiment and get exactly the kind It's also really portable. AeroPress it's collapsed So if you're traveling and you wanna bring a you really can't beat the AeroPress is also a pretty fast way of making a single serving of coffee. It takes around two, to brew your cup. There are some cons about the AeroPress. Number one, the difficulty It's not super easy. You have to do a little bit of fiddling, depending on the recipe you use. It's not super hard, but it's definitely not the And the last con is that it at a time around 200 to 250 milliliters, which is a little more So you can't use it for brewing So the AeroPress is great for travelers who wanna bring some It's for people who a single serving of coffee at a time. And it's for people who love experimenting with different recipes and variables. Next up is the moka pot. A lot of people think the and that's not technically true, but the coffee you get from a moka pot is very espresso like. It's a small quantity. It's very rich and very strong. The pros of a moka pot are for creating an espresso like coffee without actually going down the road of buying a giant espresso machine. It's also really great for milk drinks because you have that richness And it's a very unique method. There's a romance to it of and seeing the coffee It's a fun process. The cons of a moka pot only So it's not great for Another con is that of making that concentrated So if you don't like that, you're out of luck with the moka pot. And lastly it does require You can't just use boiling water, you have to have a heat So that might limit you in terms of where you Who is the moka pot for? Well it's great for campers. People who wanna make and is for people who really love that richest espresso like flavor and texture in their coffee. Moving on to the clever driver. The clever dripper is You place it over a cup of the French press and a pour-over. Put the coffee into a paper You let it steep in a full And then once you place the automatically drains out. The pros of the clever dripper Also an easier version of a pour-over. It gets you almost the same quality, but you don't have to worry The cons it doesn't create quite as a pour-over. So you're almost getting but not quite. It also only brews a single serving or the amount of coffee And the last con is that it is on the slow side. (sips) Can I get a bit more coffee? In this day and age we without talking about a These single serving pod-based coffees have their pros and cons for sure. Pros of both of these are that fastest, most convenient way And really that's the reason you would buy a curator and espresso. It's not great for good quality. It's not great for freshness, and it's not great for being But if speed is your primary concern, and you just want a quick a Keurig or an espresso maybe for you. Then we have a siphon These are really crazy contraptions that not many people brew with, but it's worth mentioning And a lot of people wonder about it. Siphon brewing is known for creating the absolute clearest cleanest, most clarified kind of Cons are that it is a It's not easy to do right off the bat. You really have to And the equipment is fairly expensive. Ranging from 80 to a $100 and up. Who's a siphon really for? Well it's for science nerds. People who love to make a people who are obsessed with that really clean, crisp flavor. Of course, there are many There's cold brew, iced coffee, there's Turkish coffee makers, Vietnamese coffee makers, percolators. But hopefully this gives you an overview of what's popular, what's accessible. So you can make your own decision and find the best cup of coffee for you. If there's a coffee brewing method that you're curious about, let us know in the comments. And for more product reviews, tips and advice, please subscribe.