I recently reported a 21 year old man, BB, The amount of caffeine in this, roughly is The maximum amount in healthy adults cited 0.4 grams per day. So BB consumed more than 16 times the highest That's gonna cause problems. Caffeine is used by more than 90% of adults In 2013, it was reported that average consumption about 2 cups of coffee, or 5 cans of soft Because it's so widely available and widely and unintentionally. Caffeine is a stimulant, meaning it promotes Because it's naturally occurring, it has the body. Caffeine is a methyl xanthine. Xanthine is a purine base. What's a purine? Well, it's a base for Adenine and Guanine, If you extend Adenine, you can get Adenosine, ATP is the chemical that's a primary energy So these chemicals are all familiar in the are all found in the human body. But how exactly does caffeine function? What does it do? At normal doses, like 1-2 cups of coffee, It increases wakefulness and alertness. It does this by blocking 2 things in the brain. First is something called gamma aminobutyric This is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter decreases activity of the nervous system by Biologically, you don't want uninhibited You need some level of control, so GABA acts So if GABA is blocked by caffeine, then you causing an increase in stimulation. The second thing caffeine appears to block Interesting, caffeine's chemical structure bind to those receptors too. Adenosine in the brain, is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, So patient BB needed to stay awake to cram I was a student before, I couldn't pull And I couldn't do them now even I wanted to. But BB's strategy was to drink coffee to study time, meant better chances of scoring So after 1 pot of coffee, he had another, to be 2 gallons of coffee, in less than 3 In the case of caffeine, large amounts will That is a toxic syndrome, that mimics the Remember that sympathetic nervous system is parasympathetic nervous system is the rest Sympathomimetic toxidrome is characterized In the case of caffeine, we're looking at So in large doses, we're going to have psychotropic responses including sweating, hyperreflexia, and mydriasis or in patient BB before he presented to the emergency Because an excess of caffeine would block amounts led to the patient's seizure. But caffeinism, isn't just limited to central Caffeine is known to induce direct catecholamine In several animal models, it appears that by calcium release in the adrenal gland. Epinephrine is a hormone, norepinephrine is Epinephrine is a non selective adrenergic without issue. What happens when alpha adrenergic receptors You get an inhibition of insulin secretion You get stimulation of glycogenolysis in the of sugar stores in those tissues. Alpha adrenergic stimulation also causes glycolysis These make sense because epinephrine is released as much glucose available in the blood so Now how about Beta adrenergic stimulation? You get increased glucagon secretion by the If insulin shifts materials IN to cells, glucagon Beta stimulation also increases lipolysis So overall, adrenergic stimulation increases the blood, which supports the fight or flight But caffeine isn't finished here. In large doses, we find also that caffeine cyclic Adenosine monophosphate. Cyclic AMP is a second messenger used in the If the enzyme that breaks down cyclic AMP of adrenaline intensifies, feeding the cycle It doesn't help that the major metabolites as well. So what does this actually do to other parts After the central nervous system, think of tissue in the body. We already know skeletal muscle is affected Smooth muscle of the GI tract will be affected and hyperactive bowel sounds. And cardiac muscle will be affected by widened and hypotension. So Patient BB presented to the emergency room He just had a series of seizures. His mother had no idea what happened to him. He can't speak coherently after his seizures either. In a previously healthy 20 year old college could be a lot of things. No smell of alcohol or any kinds of smoke, Pupils were dilated. Tachycardia. Hyperthermia. Tachypnea. So there's the signs of a stimulant presence. Patient BB also has several ventricular tachycardia He was only stabilized after administration The patient also had high creatine kinase being characteristic in caffeine toxicity as epinephrine can cause an intracellular which brings us back to the muscles. Hypokalemia can cause rhabdomyolysis. Sodium enters the cell to initiate a muscle Calcium enters to commit to a contraction. Potassium is pumped out of the cell to maintain Excess potassium extracellularly can promote would promote contraction. So you can see, caffeine toxicity is caused GABA and adenosine 2) direct catecholamine amplifying the effect of catecholamines. Both the CNS and catecholamines directly affect will affect the heart, and can affect the For the most part, treatment is supportive Most fatalities from caffeine come from cardiac If epinephrine agonizes adrenergic receptors, the effect on the beta subtypes. Some people have noted that there could be if beta is blocked, which would lead to peripheral crisis, but that doesn't seem like it happens In some cases, pressers have to given to help Caffeine toxicity causes hypotension because vasodilation, and volume depletion from urinary Replenish potassium for hypokalemia. Give benzodiazepine for seizure, which modulates Rehydrate for rhabdomyolysis, and the metabolic care. Now, I want to bring up a paper that was published In it, they described high dose insulin euglycemic In it, there was a 33 year old woman who presented caffeine powder. After she had a seizure, she had a series shockable rhythms and pulseless electrical When she was resuscitated 90 minutes later, Her heart beat was almost unnoticeable. In a last ditch effort to treat her, the doctors They loaded her up with a 1 unit per kilogram glucose. Immediately, there was a sudden rise in her She started moving her limbs. Her acidosis started correcting. Doctors moved her to the intensive care unit of insulin per kilogram body weight per hour, And after 3 days, they were able to wean her recovery, and was discharged. She couldn't remember even having taken So, how could this patient who was maybe just come back and make a full recovery? Well, it's very possible that she was going Although, that might not be all that likely. There could be a mechanism for how this high Do you remember the alpha and beta adrenergic Where the effects of those were to suppress all with the intent of increasing blood glucose Well, it looks like insulin could force the of free fatty acids. This is interesting to me that it was included of intralipid emulsion being used to treat Part of lipid emulsion therapy theory is that easily in fat, then infusing fat into the tissue, into the bulk flow of the lipid infusion. But some experiments of lipid emulsion therapy acids in the blood have a positive inotropy effect of how ILE can treat caffeine toxicity. But that would maybe contradict the hypothesis to use glucose instead of free fatty acids. I don't think we really know 100% what's It's possible that insulin has the potential That is, if excess catecholamine release suppresses way by giving lots of insulin could counteract While the insulin isn't directly counteracting like in this N of 1 case report, that it may status and acid base imbalance that resulted Glucose-insulin-potassium have had some effect shock and heart failure, but again these are things happening in the physiology that we Caffeine toxicity isn't fun. The chemical is natural. With anything that's a chemical, be careful. With anything that's natural be careful. The toxicity is caused by antagonizing inhibitory and PDE inhibition, things that happen in therapeutic doses that are under the daily We don't directly test for caffeine levels do that. Hypokalemia is a common feature in addition with this. Coingestion of other things can happen as And with caffeine being so widely available have in mind. Thanks for watching. Take care of yourself and be well.