- Sea ice in the Arctic causing the region to warm than the rest of the planet. Once enough of the ice is gone, scientists worry that will pass their tipping points. - You warm up the region faster than you start being able to melt more of the Greenland ice sheet, which contribute to sea level rise. You're able to thaw more which leads to more But of course the bigger thing the temperature difference between the poles and the equator. - And that could push the known as the AMOC, and we know that would But a group of scientists to buying more time before When fully scaled, their project plans to use half but their initial tests - So we get there in January. It was a horrible day, horrible weather. It was like 40, 50 mile per hour winds. We couldn't see anything and everything was flying away. (sled rattles) Where everybody's like, &quot;You need to cover millions &quot;and in such an environment.&quot; - Andrea is working on a climate that's part nature-based, But why should we care? Well, the world is warming quickly and we need to focus on our to avoid the worst possible outcomes. But we might also have to consider the most promising strategies while we race towards net zero, especially when the stakes are so high. (wind whistles) Back in 2012, an astrophysicist the climate change impacts in Phoenix, Arizona, - People always say, &quot;Oh, Go back through the records. You see 1913, there were In the last five years, that have had well over 50 days above 110. My cactus are dying in my front yard. - But the message he heard over and over at a climate change - There's only one way out. Stop making carbon dioxide. - Ultimately, that is the only way out, and there have been a lot in order to avoid the hard work but this particular crazy idea might just be worth listening to. - When it was suggested we need to stop making carbon when that doesn't happen what do we do? And with that, I realized, because there's no stopping at least not in time. So I started to think to myself, &quot;If you could do one thing in the climate, &quot;what would you do to - For most of the last 2.6 million years, we've had a planet crowned But paleoclimate records show that this decrease in Arctic sea ice that we're now witnessing is in the last 1,500 years. - [Andrea] In all likelihood, by 2040, we will see the first blue ocean event. We'll see the Arctic virtually free of sea ice at the end of the summer. - The Arctic is far away but what happens there affects all of us. - We have been losing the and so now the ocean's that normally would be And you start exposing the darker ocean or the darker land surfaces they're gonna warm up. So basically what we've been seeing is that the Arctic is warming than the rest of the planet. - This disproportionate drives thaw of permafrost, the frozen ground that If warming continues, the releasing trapped methane and CO2, causing even more warming. Some scientists warn of a Arctic warming is also pushing to the brink of collapse. If it melted entirely, it of sea level rise. And last, Arctic warming causes between the poles and which along with the melting plays a role in slowing Overturning Circulation. Some scientists think that and they warn of a total collapse. There would be major sea level rise on the East Coast of the US, tropical rain belts would shift, and the ocean's ability to making global warming even worse. So, the loss of sea ice is a big deal and it got Steve thinking. - I am an astrophysicist, but I've also helped with of Kuiper Belt objects that exist in the cold reaches of the solar system. I model ice volcanoes on and so I know a little bit about ice. - So he took that unique knowledge of ice and started by asking a simple question. - Why does the ice freeze? Well, it freezes at the That's where it's basically How impossible might it be to raise water from below the ice to on top of the ice so that it could freeze faster, and how much ice would you need to make to make a difference in the climate? How expensive would that be? And we came up with numbers in 2017 that said, &quot;Well, - They wanted to figure out to add 50 centimeters of with windmills to power them. If they could add enough ice then it might give the sea ice a fighting chance of Steve and his team estimated to realize this dream. - It would take something and that was promptly - And while that number was huge, it meant that the project - [Steve] And ever since that we should study the of ice in the Arctic. - Just as Steve started COVID hit and his funding was cut. But then he got an unexpected phone call. - [Steve] It came as a to be contacted by Real Ice. Boy, was that a good day? - This company called Real Ice started testing Steve's hypothesis. (wind roars) - [Researcher] Woohoo! (wind roars) - The first test was in Nome, Our main objective was to see could actually perform in And guess what? We went and it worked. (Andrea laughs) (snow crunches) 122. So we gained 26 centimeters of thickness. - But could it be scaled up enough to make a real difference? - You would need, you know, 10 million, you know, 50 million pumps in the middle of the Arctic. It's just too much. - They needed to come up with without needing humans to do the work. They needed something and avoid the extreme and ever-changing weather of the Arctic. - So our idea is that - So Andrea and his team got to work developing an underwater drone that could drill through pump water, then move to a new site to do it all over again. - They would operate like a mesh, if you want, like a swirl. That one would be able to cover about two square kilometers With that in mind, if you wanted to cover a you would need 500,000. - 500,000 underwater drones is a lot, but it's nothing compared you would need to do it manually. - We calculated that including everything, renewable energy, operations, engineering, of five to $10 billion a year to run an ice growing industry. This is a small amount of money if you can see that because that's the numbers for future adaptation, loss, and damage. - The goal of this project is It won't cool the planet But if those 500,000 underwater drones can thicken enough sea so that it lasts during the summer, the hope is that it could slow down the warming of the Arctic, and in turn, it could put the brakes on that we talked about earlier, for us to reach net zero carbon emissions. This process almost mimics nature, which created sea ice in the Arctic for much of the Earth's history. But there must be a catch? - Snow on the sea ice actually limits the light that comes in. You don't get, like, or phytoplankton blooms to happen until that snow is almost melted off. - And that algae and of the marine food web in the Arctic. - But if you don't have 'cause now you've put water on it and you've removed all the snow, then that's going to of to get in earlier when and that would alter the of the food web and the marine ecosystem and how that cascades the seal populations, the bears, everything. - We need to do a proper Let's not forget, 4 million Over half a million of them are Indigenous and they do depend 100% on the sea ice. All climate interventions and we need to compare it with a scenario where we're basically seeing 'cause this is what is happening. - So, is a nature-inspired the right direction? - I imagine a situation the sea ice level back to when it could reflect so much more light, and this could actually slow slow down the glaciers trying to slow down the and the release of methane in the region and bring benefits to - You know, I personally think even with all the cons and but many other geoengineering but it's clear that is a long way from being One thing's for sure, though. We currently have all to reach net zero, like renewable and other nature-based solutions, and we've already made real Perhaps it's wise for us not to think of these geoengineering related strategies as our silver bullet to but instead continue to employ the tools that we already have at our disposal while implementing other like the one discussed in this episode as they become more practical. But what do you think? Do solutions like this have I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments section below, and see you next time on &quot;Weathered.&quot; (bright music fades)