This episode of Real Engineering is brought documentaries for free for 31 days at curiositystream.com/realengineering. On December 12th, 1984, the United States aircraft. One that broke all aircraft design convention. It's wings pointed forward. However this experimental aircraft dubbed The German's also experimented with the with the Junker JU-287, and it's prototype of the Soviets who took and developed the [1] All of these early iteration designs ran into This design was incredibly aerodynamically When the wing deflects the force of the oncoming This is a rather obvious design flaw. Intuitively you just now looking at it that So why did Germany, The Soviet Union and the consideration? To understand this, we first have to explore angle in the first place. Looking at most aircraft developed during them had straight wings. The Spitfire, the mitzubishi A6M Zero and It was only during the later stages of the fore that other designs started to emerge, major design flaw that put the crew of the These problems arose directly as a consequence An aerofoil is designed to make use of bernoulli's on top of the wing as a result of airflow People like to say this false , but it's there is a lot more to the story. Because this airflow actually speeds up as speeds long before the plane itself reaches [3] This causes problems because supersonic normal airflow over the wing. On November 4th 1941, these problems resulted pilot, during a high speed test dive of the The causes of the crash were unclear at the This version of the P-38 had been altered to help the pilot overcome aerodynamic stiffening, speeds makes it difficult to move the control dive regardless of these measures. The engineers eventually discovered the airflow as a result of shockwave formation. This reduced the lift the wing could generate, directly downstream of the flow separation. This moved the centre of pressure and forced more speed,[4] making it next to impossible To solve this issue they incorporated a dive airflow was not reaching supersonic speeds, dives to allow the wing to increase lift and As technology advanced however aeronautical were not suitable for transonic or supersonic wings. The Germans confirmed the theory with high two wings, a straight wing and a swept wing Proving that a swept wing could delay the [5] They recognised that the swept wing would formed, long before the technology that would They used this knowledge to develop the Messerschmitt change it's sweep angle before flight. But the end of the war came before the German's Air flow over a wing perpendicular to the flow, [6] which is air that flows over the The chord is the imaginary line running from aerofoil. Chordwise flow does accelerate over the aerofoil, at which supersonic flow begins. Called the critical mach number. Now let's look at the flow components over 20 degrees. Here we can separate the airflow into two [6] The chord wise flow, which is now offset and the new second component the spanwise wing and does not accelerate and thus does At lower speeds, where supersonic airflow to be chordwise and thus generate the necessary However as the speed of the plane begins to lift thanks to the increased air speed, and into spanwise flow. We do this by increasing the sweep angle, maximum sweep angle of 60 degrees. [7] As the sweep angle increases a larger flow, which is great for increasing the top stall characteristics. Because a large volume of air is now originating to the tip of the wing, stall will begin at This is a problem because our ailerons, the plane, are located on the outer wing. If stall occurs on the outer wing, we will [8] A major problem for say at fighter jet while maintaining full control, and this is trying to fix. This reverses the direction of the chordwise travels to the root of the wing. [9] Meaning stall occurs at the root of the of the plane for much longer. Not only that, but it reduced induced drag Where high pressure air from the lower wing top of the wing at the wing tips. The Ju 287 was designed this way not to benefit but to move the wing box rear wards, which to the centre of gravity of the aircraft, larger bomb, while not increasing the trim [10] But ultimately the materials of the time Under normal wing loading, the main force Where the force of lift pushes the wing upwards, To survive this we need to build an adequately This is achieved through a beam called a spar With a forward swept wing an additional stress air is attempting to twist the wing. We can imagine this with a free body diagram need to incorporate into the wing. [11] Here the kb is the spring stiffness that the spring stiffness needed to resist twisting. Creating a structural member that can act however is no easy task and would require attributes the forward swept wing would provide. But that changed when advanced composite materials Allowing planes like the X-29 and the Russian Both planes used carbon fiber reinforced plastics motion. I will focus on the X-29 from here, as information available. The X-29s primary structural member for resisting here, [12] which was constructed of crisscrossed deep. Essentially creating that spiral spring shape stiff and lightweight composites. Taming that twisting problem, and allowing tests showed the forward swept design would to same plane with aft swept wings. [9] This along with a supercritical wing design to minimise the acceleration of the air over curve to the lower surface to increase lift, at a higher mach number. Another drag reducing benefit of the forward rear wards.[14] Typically the lift generated by a tail wing which generates downwards pressure This downwards pressure is wasted energy that With a forward swept wing the centre of pressure the centre of gravity, and thus to maintain called canards, need to generate lift forward to useful lift. This would seem like an obvious feature to to instability that requires the control surfaces flight, and this was one of the massive challenges The X-29 was incredibly unstable, especially fighters. This means the flight control computers had to maintain stable flight, about 40 times [15] To do this the X-29 had three flight control As the plane would become essentially impossible Which made it even more worrying when all [16] This caused the plane to be grounded. Delayed testing, which was due to accelerate a parachute system to allow high angle of The spin parachute was installed to provide tests had indicated that the X-29A ailerons developed upright spins. Eventually the problems were solved and high the X-29s capabilities, but the program ultimately to the day of it's first flight. In between that first and last flight the flight hours. Giving valuable scientific data and design aided flight. Ultimately forwards swept wings weren't as the benefits simply did not outweigh the From the additional structural requirements, importantly it's negative effects on stealth out in the end. This is just one of many unusual plane designs among other novel military vehicles. You can learn more about these innovative Miracle Machines" on curiosity stream. You can watch them for free, by signing up or using the link the description. This will give you a month of completely free titles from some of the world's best filmmakers. After that first free month you can continue a month. As usual thanks for watching and thank you If you would like to see more from me, the and subreddit are below.