In today's chess video, we'll be looking have an interesting story to go along. So, we have the biggest Chess Championship going on. players - William &amp; Ben. William is playing as are watching this intense chess game, waiting to this critical position, where the white pawns are It is white to move &amp; both players are thinking Now the big question is: who is winning this? Is I want you guys to analyze &amp; tell me in the Before we begin, I would like to thank BetterHelp with our story. Now in this position, William pawn to b7. He wants to promote to a queen. So plays rook to b2. And now everyone believes that very difficult to save this pawn. But here William to b5, he's sacrificing the knight. Everyone is because black can simply take with the rook hold on, white has a brilliant idea here, he can it is pinned. Even if he takes the rook, white winning for white. And here, even if he tries white can simply exchange the rooks &amp; again, position. Now Ben was a strong player, so he in this position, he did not take the knight, plan with knight to h4. He's trying to trap this square &amp; finish off the game with rook b1 so he brings back his rook &amp; protects his king. knight to f3. This time the idea is to because this checkmate looks almost unstoppable. he decides to give a check because that's Ben needs to figure out where to move his king. white promotes to a queen and the rook is gone. white promotes with a check, and then he can just in this position, Ben is left with no option, but checkmate threat looming around, so white cannot William just sacrifices his rook. Now see, so he takes with a check. The white king starts here &amp; get this queen. The crowd is excited, the to do something about this pawn. He's thinking of sacrifice the knight, and then maybe he can jump not sure whether he should go actually for this to play rook g1, but then he realises that he has minutes. Whereas, white on the other hand, has of time left, he gets up from his chair &amp; goes to waiting in anticipation. It turns out that Ben had So he gets in, locks the door, and he quickly surprise, he finds out that rook g1 won't work, the engine recommends him to play knight d4 &amp; per the engine, this is a drawish endgame &amp; that's at all this, Ben quickly runs back to the playing he decides to follow the engine. So he plays then black can simply get out of the way, and white simply promotes to a queen, and Ben picks material, white has 9 plus 2, 11 points. And black considers this as a drawish endgame, but I still engine, Ben feels that getting a draw from this tries his luck &amp; offers a draw to William. And Soon, they both started discussing about the game. had the queen. But William was like, "I was under I was losing, so draw is a great result for me." why didn't you play rook to g1? Because after king and I thought you were winning." Now Ben had the engine, so he told him that, "After rook what about rook b8? "Well, then you could fork the and what if you move the king? "Well, then you a queen, so that's the problem." Looking at all because he did not even think of this. He openly brilliant moves, especially under this tremendous planning to resign after rook g1 itself. After Because he felt that had he not used the engine won the championship. Anyway, since this was a now move onto a tie-breaker which is going to be game also reached a very interesting position. But I would like to thank BetterHelp for sponsoring life can also be very stressful. Whenever I try to distract myself. But most of the times, when you need the help of a professional therapist the right therapist can be a daunting experience, BetterHelp is an amazing online platform where It's online, it's remote and just by answering professional therapist. The best part is that if you can even switch to a new one at BetterHelp wants to make therapy more affordable happy &amp; healthy life. Its really easy to sign BetterHelp.com/ChessTalk , that's better-h-e-l-p &amp; month. Link is in the description box below, so do the Grand finale - the tie-breaker - it is William is black. We've reached this critical position whereas Ben is only left with a rook. Seems like promote this pawn. Can you find the winning plan the knight. And if the knight moves, black can white needs to keep the knight here. Therefore, defends the knight &amp; also threatens a discovered move, so any more checks from the knight or the a very cunning move - rook to c7. Look, now if he both the rook &amp; the king can't move. Therefore, in instead he just keeps it on this diagonal &amp; plays rook moves away, he can execute the checkmate. smartly brings it to this e7 square. So that after William realizes that giving up the bishop is the Ben takes it. But William needs to be careful by stalemate since the king is left with no legal his knight to this particular square. Because he mating net on the king. Black is in a desperate he can't take the rook because that's again a the way, results in a check. Ben has no option but takes. And black is forced to move the king away. this important square. And after king moves Ben offers his resignation. William is crowned the celebrating his victory. On the other hand, Ben the championship had he believed in himself &amp; that's why you should always play fair! Alright, position. It is white's turn, and you need to in the comments, let's see how many of you get for this. Anyway Guys, don't forget to like and