When it comes to the life of Howard Robard fact from fiction. Even the details of his birth were falsified. Official records give that date as December The reality is that he'd been born two months miles from Texas. From there, the lies built upon each other. He was not one of triplets, nor was he his a substitute baby brought in to replace the All of these fanciful stories were later told the aura that surrounded his name. Hughes senior, known as 'Bo' - a shortened a penniless scoundrel, bumming his way round In 1899, he was run out of town by the furious With no other options, the dreamy eyed larrikin Making his way to Texas, Bo just happened oil hurtled from the ground at Spindeltop He was among the first to grab claims, buying it days later for hundreds. Within a few months, having amassed a small the Texas Oil Fuel Company, the forerunner Within six months he had also married the Allene Gano. Allene was terrified of small animals and with cleanliness. These traits were to find full expression By the time that Howard, junior, known as father was still chasing oil. Still he was frustrated, not so much at finding of the drilling tools that were available. Finally, out of exasperation, he set his sights On November 20th, 1908, he emerged from his 168 cutting edges. He had just invented the Hughes Tool Bit, that would both enrich, and ultimately destroy, * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * By the age of four, it was obvious that Sonny that ran in the family. The condition, hereditary otosclerosis would lifetime. As a youngster, it caused him to become isolated Now that money was no object, the eight-year school. He didn't make a very good impression, with snobbish bore who refused to join in with girls. Not surprisingly, he soon gained a reputation But the young Hughes also gained a reputation He put together his first wireless radio transmitter A year later his picture appeared in the local motorized bicycle in Houston, which he had In an effort to get his nervous and timid off to the boot camp of the day, the Boy Scouts. So, during the 1916 summer recess, Sonny found in Pike County, Pennsylvania under the tutelage Dan Beard. Surprisingly, the young Hughes took to the water. He was already quite fit and quickly learned bird calls. He seemed to excel under the military discipline Away from the over protective gaze of his his effeminate nature and show his true colors. In the Fall of 1920, a fourteen-year-old Sonny crew races in Connecticut. Hughes senior promised to buy his son whatever race. When Harvard smashed Yale by 14 seconds, the for five dollars. He then pointed to a sign further up the river for $5. Hughes, senior reluctantly joined his son It made the father sick, but the son had just He found the experience of flying both exhilarating From that moment on, he would be at his most - flying high above a world that he so often Movie Mogul By the age of 19, both of Hughes' parents His mother had died suddenly when he was 16, pregnancy. Bo died less than two years later of a heart Hughes Tool Company. He dropped out of college to take control knew nothing about the oil business. He soon hired a self taught accountant by At the same time, Hughes legally declared the entire family fortune. Hughes now had the money that he needed to Those passions had nothing to with oil - instead and making movies in Hollywood. Another of his passions was golf. One day, while playing at the Beverly Hills overhead and tipped its wing at him. Howard was able to track down the flyer and hundred dollars per day if he would teach The pilot readily agreed and, two years later, Despite his chronic shyness, Howard was fascinated In order to break into the business, he signed contract. The pairing immediately struck gold with their claiming an Academy Award in 1927. This gave Hughes the confidence to take on great loves, flying and movies. Failing to find a director who shared his it alone - writing, producing and directing Hell's Angels. This was going to be his magnus opus and he and effort as was needed to create a masterpiece. An air-fleet was contracted that was bigger During aerial filming sequences Howard's such things as cloud formations. He would scrap valuable minutes of perfectly until the clouds were just right. One day, Hughes, in an effort to control every in a small scout plane. But no sooner had he ascended than the plane Howard managed to walk away uninjured, the escapes. A bemused stunt man commented that 'at least Howard's obsession with perfection meant got totally out of control. In the meantime, the public had become infatuated Against everyone's advice Hughes decided dialogue scenes, this time adding sound. The reshoot proved to be the break of a lifetime The leading lady of the movie, Greta Nissen, and Carpenter stepped into the role. Hughes transformed her into Jean Harlow, the during the 1930's. Hell's Angels was a box office smash, returning which was an exorbitant amount at that time. Unfortunately for Hughes, three flops followed, with gangsters by producing Scarface, based got a video on him, you can find a link in Always one to push the bounds, Hughes filled The sensors knocked it back, demanding major To their surprise, Hughes sued them - and The movie would be released just as After the release of Scarface, Hughes stepped passion - flying. Aviator In 1934 he easily won a flying race in Miami. This success fuelled his ambitions, inspiring He now set out to design and build the world's The result of his efforts was the H1, which 352 miles per hour on August 18th, 1935. By 1938, Hughes was intent on achieving another world. In a modified Lockheed 14, he took to the from New York. Sixteen hours and thirty-eight minutes later Siberia. Three days, nineteen hours and fourteen minutes Hughes was hailed as a conquering hero. For three days the painfully shy adventurer in New York, Chicago, Washington and Houston. In 1940, Hughes moved into commercial aviation Airlines (TWA). A short time later, the US Government came They wanted Hughes Aircraft to supply plane to help supply the war effort in Europe. Two years later, with America well and truly to design and build a massive flying boat that was causing serious problems for US transport While doing the testing and design for this plane crash. He was testing a Sikorsky S-43 amphibian aircraft The plane went down into the frigid waters, were also onboard. Hughes managed to walk away, but he did receive Mental Illness It was around this time that Hughes began odd to onlookers. Compulsive hand washing to avoid germs, checking and constantly trying to make things perfect as symptoms of a deteriorating mind. This was hardly a good time for whispers of With his business empire rapidly expanding demands, Hughes was facing stresses and pressures Two huge contracts, for the XF-11 Reconnaissance over budget and overdue. Most of the delays were due to Hughes' incessant test pilot for both planes. And it was this insistence which brought about On July 7th 1946, Hughes took the XF-11 for basin. For the first 45 minutes the plane functioned Then, suddenly, a propeller malfunction causing Desperately wrestling with the controls, Hughes country club. Instead he plunged through the roof of a nearby This was one crash that Hughes wasn't able He was extracted from the wreckage as it went He suffered severe head trauma and multiple These injuries were going to cause him suffering To control his pain, Hughes started taking He relied on a 3 part cocktail of drugs - codeine, the next 30 years. Still, the pain and head injuries affected of control. Long before his reliance on pain killers, - to women. When he had come to Hollywood in 1925, he The wife, Ella, soon tired of his infidelities, The sexual appetite remained though, and was that would include such stars as Jean Peters, Katherine Hepburn. Hughes was obsessed with the female form, his most controversial film, The Outlaw. Set during the old west, the movie was a showcase personally ensuring that here dresses were bust. Once again the censors were outraged, but By the mid 1940's, Hughes' health issues business empire. In addition to his ownership of TWA and Hughes studio. At the same time, he was building a huge aerospace military. In 1947 the pressure on Hughes was ramped to appear before Congress regarding alleged In a commanding performance, with the TV cameras the war effort. It is ironic that this congressional appearance public outing - was also the last time that The brilliant and fearless visible millionaire recluse... Withdrawal from Society The fifty-year old Hughes was now intent on The symptoms of his undiagnosed obsessive He refused to shake hands or touch door handles, meticulous detail and he flew into violent commanded. Those who worked for Hughes began calling concerned that he was going insane. The FBI, who were keeping tabs on him, noted paranoiac' adding that he could even be Then, out of the blue, Hughe's declared starlets he had been seeing, Jean Peters. Many people believe that Hughes decided to be able to have him committed to an asylum. Less than a year after marrying Peters in one of the most bizarre episodes of his life. He told his aides that he wanted to view some He didn't leave the darkened screening room His diet consisted of chocolate bars and milk, in a chair staring at the screen. During this time time, Hughes communicated pad. Instructions included not looking at him and Over those four months at the studio his personal germ obsession intensified. When he finally emerged from the screening unkempt, ragged and pathetic mess... He immediately checked into the Beverly Hills temporarily, but Hughes ended up staying in Here he reverted to his screening room habits, Business dealings were conducted by telephone His drug use escalated as he fought continuous to supplement his mega doses of codeine and In 1966, conducting negotiations completely share in TWA. This made him a billionaire and the richest But rather than sit on his fortune, Hughes, his sights on conquering a new frontier - Las His first move was to relocate to the penthouse his bizarre lifestyle without interruption. He then began buying up the city, starting His investments included a local TV station, and demand that they play the movies he wanted By 1970, Hughes was a prisoner of his own And then, as if things weren't crazy enough warning. Many in his entourage thought that he'd But three weeks later he turned up in the From there he announced that he was turning to a group of Mormon aids... In 1972, Hughes relocated to a hotel room He left the room only once - to go flying. But this was like no flight he'd ever taken. Climbing into the cockpit he took off all Following what would be his final flight at He took a fall in his London hotel room, increasing his ability to walk... Death Things went downhill from here. As if by design, Hughes last hours were spent receive medical treatment. His emaciated body finally breathed its last The world was shocked when the autopsy revealed result of undiagnosed OCD, multiple severe imposed neglect. It was a sad end for a brilliant man.