Wow. That was loud. Wow What do we think of when we hear about imitation products? Possibly in mobile phones, shoes, designer clothes, cheaper versions that copy the design of some successful product and they exist in all industries, including cigarettes and alcohol but I had never heard of firearms imitation. This really exists, factories in Pakistan that copy designs of weapons from around the world to sell them much cheaper; a gun that costs more than 600 dollars, they can sell it for less than 100, one that costs 4,000 they can sell it for less than 500. Such a bizarre scenario that even I would call disturbing. Today we enter one of these factories, to closely document part of this process. Welcome to another disturbing adventure. What's up, friends? What's up? This is very interesting, it's an unusual experience. We are in an arms factory in Pakistan, we are in the Peshawar area, which is very close to the border with Afghanistan, maybe we are...from where we are now maybe 15-20 minutos to the border with Afghanistan and all this is Pakistani manufacture, here they make them and sell it to the same people in Pakistan or people from Afghanistan also come to buy them. This particular one we are visiting, it is a little more artisanal work, not as industrial as for armies, but wow. How about it? Super crazy! and they tell me that this weapon is a copy of and Italian, apparently italians they are very expensive and they said: bro, let's make one of the same quality, with the same details and sell it for so much less. This one costs $2,000 rupees, that are $1,500 dollars, more or less. Check the details, it's truly well made, it's cool; this wooden detail, the cannons...is heavy and they are done by the dude back here He is making it there as one of the artisans. In the same way, here we have another craftsman, in fact, here we have the ones that are copied these dudes, look they are the Beretta, that well you surely have listened about them in movies I have only hear Beretta in movies. And yeah, this ones are the ones they are copying. How about? Pakistani imitation weapons, super interesting, no? Well let's go around, apparently this is the most impressive thing, it's something very casual, they don't care that I'm recording, there are posters outside, in fact...I imagine they say arms factory, I only see little drawings of weapons and texts in udu, the language here. That's the most interesting thing, is something very, very casual. How about this? How do you see it? It's interesting. Let's go around. Let's go for it. [Music] How friendly is everyone! I don't know, let's see, it's not easy to get this experience, obviously, I had to go around and ask... it's not like: come! Open doors, obviously it's not easy [unintelligible] but very friendly everyone, i don't now is the most unusual, the most interesting, I think. This dude is going to test a gun and wanted him to record it. Let's see Wow. That was loud. Wow It exploded hard They are letting me in here, to the workshops, kind of behind the scenes so look, we are seeing that different types of weapons are being made so look here they are making the barrels, it seems to me that this is the name of this part this man here is carving them and well, like in any fabric they go by steps, look this tourniquet shapes them, then polishes them so all this area is in charge of that. Look, here we can see, it already has the shape with which it will go inside the gun and everything. How about? Oh look! Wow, here it is already taking shape, and he is assembling them and here my bro is rolling a cigarette, of course Oh it's hashish? It's his hashish, look Hey, I want to clarify something, I really feel that perhaps from the outside, you perceive my narration of what I am seeing very casual, but let's be clear that I know that this is not this...even, the truth is really strange, is weird to think that we are in a weapons factory but like they receiving me, like...I'm feeling the vibe in general, I am not feeling it tense, so I want to clarify it in case you perceive my narration as something very casual of the things, of what is being seen, but it is that they opened access to me, it was like: record, go ahead, pass it with the camera, people smile to the camera, is what that I am perceiving and that is why I am narrating it that way, but let's not take away the seriousness of the matter, this is hard, this...if we analyze it in depth, it is something deep not at all casual, as perhaps you are hearing from me at the moment. But well, let's continue. From what they are telling me, what this factory specializes in is making copies of others, for example this is a copy of a very good turkish factory called zigana so they grab weapons that are already on the market, that have been proven, they analyze their technology and copy them here and well, what is attractive to the buyer it's that they get it a for hundred or thousands of dollars cheaper, for example, wow they alredy told prices okay, let's see, check this, really it's very impressive. This weapon costs $100 dollars, 100 dollars! and the original one, the turkish one costs around $2,000 dollars. So how disturbing, really. It's an ugly fact that with $100 dollars you can buy a weapon, is very cheap and it is a lethal weapon. And to be able to buy one, they are telling me that you need a license, not everyone can buy it we'll have to analyze how hard is to get that license, anyhow, is weird, is disturbing. This video is going to be made of disturbing facts everywhere. [Music] And well, here we are seeing how they are assembling one...oh ok, look this is the, the one that is made here...that is a copy of a chinese weapon okay a chinese pistol, look that is the model and in the same way, they are telling me that this one, the chinese one, the original so to speak, cost up from $600 dollars and the pakistani copy is selled approximately in $90 dollars and he's telling us how long takes him to make one of these, he alone, he does it from beginning to end, one day...in a day he can make a whole gun and it's all manual work look, for example, you see how his working? This man here and in this workshop, the one who makes chinese pistols, there are five workers so there we'll be about five pistols at the end of the day; I tell you, this is not really like a great great factory, it is a job, somewhat artisanal, look, it's already finished. How about? He tells us that his personal record was 2 in one day, that once he got a big request and it was like fast, fast, and they did two per day. In this other workshop here they make the zigana, the turk that I told you about and look, we have four people working, very carefully I come in her and it is also all manual work, completely by hand, look so unlike the ones we saw below, where they are assembling by parts, here each worker knows the procedure perfectly and they build them from start to finish; actually look, we can see that they have all the materials, they do have the small parts, the screws, then the metal pieces they have the sheath or whatever the cover is called of the weapon and on this side they have like...oh it's sandpaper, I can see now, they are the sandpapers so they can work, of course. These too in one day, one person in one day, can do a gun from start to finish. It has caught my eye how he's checking that they slip correctly so they load. Quality test. [Music] In this other...this is the one that has impacted me the most here they are making AK-47 and to make an AK-47, they are telling me, it's five days; this one obviously takes a much longer process. These, the they sell them for approximately $500 dollars, 500 dollars for an AK-47. Look, he's checking the cartridge I got scared, I said wow and he told no, it doesn't have bullets dude, take it easy. Look, there they have the bullets; these are sold for $500 dollars, as I told you, but based on ...for example, when I went to South Sudan, they sold these for a thousand dollars, so I'll assume that it's a good price, comparing it with a new one is selled that the truth I don't not know how much it is, but I will suppose that it is much more. Here he, oh look, he's showing me the bullets; these bullets, I'm told...all this is what they tell me that they are also made in Pakistan but not in this place, but they are made in Pakistan. This one is Beretta, that is also italian, this is the copy of the italian that they are not telling me prices, but same I imagine they sell for less. This man who's here, has been working 40 years in this industry, 40 years making weapons he has been 25 years making weapons, both started quite young and they are telling me obviously with the help of my guide and my translator, that the shifts are about 12 hours although sometimes they extend, when there is a lot I work, when they don't finish on time they have up to 14 hours, more or less; every day they come to work, they take their breaks; it's just like any factory job so it's very interesting, I have recordeen many factories for the channel, the coffee factory, the factory of...I don't know, there are many things and it catches my attention to look this closely and say well, it is one more factory for these people, although they make weapons, it is not like they are the bad guys, I mean, these people are just working they are the workers, no? They are coming one more day to work, taking money, bringing bread to the tables of their homes, they are not the bad guys here; the bad guys, really is the entire war industry, that's the bad thing, that's the ugly. Those people are working, they are looking to support their families, in an honest way, they are not really shooting the gun, they are just assembling it, at least that is how I perceive it, that is how I am seeing it, what do you think? and well, ingenuity, the hardest value of these workers is that they are often the ones who devise how to get copies of the weapons, so they bring them an original weapon, no? They analyze the technology, they analyze the mechanism and the do their copy. Years, decades of experience have these weapons manufacturing workers. [Music] The time to prayer is here, let's remember that we are in a territory of Islam a Muslim territory so the workers, some take their break and take their time to pray; they place their mat in the direction it should go and pray; some others, we can see over there, that they are washing themselves, they are rinsing others are praying alreayd. Yeah, I tell you, it is one more job, like in every factory, like in every trade here, of course this is something that is observed on a daily basis. [Music ] I want to conclude this video by clarifying that I do not support the arms industry at all, in fact quite the opposite. Another example of the massive business that is war and the millionaire amounts that can be just the crumbs that fall from the big cake. But until when the cake stops being sweet, and starts to rot? [Music]