It's what Mauritanians fear the most. In just a few hours, The Harmattan On this particular occasion, but its strength Propelled by the wind, have swallowed the road While some drivers will make it through, The sand moves so quickly around here. I was here last night, at around 9 pm. There was nothing, no problems at all. There isn't a tree left That's why the dunes can travel so fast. The wind propels it onto the roads It's always like this. The state tries to clear The only way to free a vehicle Hey, where are you? I'm stuck on the road I can't get through with this car. Can you come and help? The driver decides to park while he waits for it to clear. A friend is coming I hope the sand will soon be cleared, I'll have to wait an hour but that's okay. Helping each other No one is ever left alone in the desert. The road will not be cleared Mauritania is an arid country, Getting supplies to forgotten villages far The traditional camel caravans, have been replaced by age-old machines. We're going to have to get the sheets out. On board, men work to the bone Fished goods are transported in truly unsanitary conditions. They travel occasionally Ahmed, how are the fish looking? No ice to preserve the fish inside. They're still frozen, If it weren't for me, Except sometimes, fate has other plans. The poorest in Mauritania travel Two days of hellish travel There's the sand, dust, cold, and heat. The Mauritanians have a saying that the world's beauty The Sahara's splendor will never bring But in this immense region, is the bravery of its inhabitants. At the gates of the desert Not long ago it was a bustling layover hub but over the years, the animal lost Dromedaries have become increasingly rare. Food and other commodities now travel Put this bag on top. In fairness to Sid Ahmed, he would need 74 camels to transport This truck can carry everything. We use every inch of it Sid Ahmed only ever embarks on his if he has his co-pilot, This is our weapon. It's our desert cooler. It keeps water cold. We can get up to 20 liters in it. I fill it with this pipe, the water will be ice cold. We made it ourselves. We found the carcass Only a truck like Sid Ahmed's The two are supplying Two hundred and fifty kilometers in the stifling heat of a sunlit truck. In order to last the three-day journey, Sid Ahmed and his co-pilot mint tea. This here is the tea, The trick is to fill it I use this halved oil container. With this, it never spills. He pulls the tea from one glass It's our portable tea room. Tea is a necessity for us because Do you know when No, we always know when we will leave, It usually takes two or three days, it can take much longer. The Tagant desert With 40-degree heat in the shade, At times the rocky parts and at others, There are certain precautions to take. I slightly deflate the tires I don't want to get stuck on the road. We get through tires very quickly, as they have to be changed Once deflated, That being said, the truck can now only but given its age, This truck must be about 30 years old. The truck has traveled so many miles But in the desert, it travels everywhere. It's much more sturdy We like to refer to these Mercedes trucks The reason for the nickname simple mechanical structure The key to driving Seven hours of driving later, and their first delivery point. This desert farmer has been awaiting How are you? Are you well? I'm doing fine, and you? I'm so happy to see you. I thought Be careful not to split this bag of flour. It's okay, you can let go. I've got it. This is our only source of supplies. State officials did come once They asked us what we needed, and I told them Whenever Sid Ahmed comes, He is very generous. Praise be to God, lord of the universe. Sharif dedicates May Allah guide you Prayer is very important. It protects us Right, let's go. Only time will tell whether If only to gain some time, Sid Ahmed and his co-pilot At night in the desert, a welcome relief Suddenly the engine loses power, and an orange flashing light It's here, I can see. Yes, I think it has run out of oil. Do you think the truck can run anyway? We could try, but it's quite a risk. I'd prefer to repair it first. Come and look here, Sid Ahmed. I don't understand He told me to look here, Both draw on their But after an hour of searching, The air filter has burst, Sid Ahmed. We have to patch it up. I'm going to use this old rubber tube It's the best way. I don't know why he never listens to me. We need to stick to our roles. He's the driver and I'm the mechanic. The truck does not belong to them. They're both employees. They earn EUR150 for each one-way trip. Though it isn't much, Yes, I'm exhausted, I have to work in order to feed my wife and children Solidarity It's what keeps me going. One hundred and eighty kilometers An eternity in desert language. Supplying the most remote towns for the Mauritanian state, especially as most In the capital city of Nouakchott, At the end of the afternoon, Once the boats have moored, the men stabilize them Then hundreds of hands storm the boats. Paid by the number the men strive to make but this comes with its dangers. When the waves get rough, the boats become dangerous Some end up drowning. Eighteen men were crushed The men transport where ancient 404 pickup trucks These handle the final 300-meter stretch These 404 vehicles can carry anything. The truck can take up to 300 tons. Without fail? These old French relics and it's a good job too. They're not in the best of conditions, but their engines A minor miracle, Look, this is a tea bag. There's a leak here, It'll help slow things down They say once it's poured into the heater, There is a genius amidst these mechanics. How did you start the car? Take these two wires, The yellow wire is the ignition, Off we go. First, we'll reverse. To reverse, you pull this cord like this. Straight back! Keep going! Not all these fish More than 500,000 tons are fished Flour which will go to fish farms The sea remains but sending fish without raising the price is tricky. So the Mauritanian state has put in place Each week a taxi driver is responsible He will be transporting It's fished from Nouadhibou or Nouakchott, I then pick it up in Tidjikja. The price is fixed at EUR7 per kilogram. Without government support, the price of the fish Massoud faces a 300-kilometer journey to the village of Akjoujt. You need to be experienced You have to know the sand. I hope it will go smoothly. There are some extremely tricky passages. If we break down, The passengers, Massoud has no icebox The temperature is 40 degrees outside, and in the passenger cabin, the heat is staggering. The taxi driver hopes at the very latest, The passengers know better than and just a few hours in... It seems we have a flat tire. The heat caused it to puncture. Is it difficult Yes, it is very difficult. The jack keeps sinking in the sand. This is not Massoud's first flat tire, We have to get We will put it here to lift it up. That'll stabilize the vehicle, I need you to wedge the front of the car. I should've brought more tools. This would've been Over in the trunk, but will they last the night? Massoud and his two passengers Pass me the screws. The state has improved the road networks but despite talk of tarmac, the terrain manages to make Reaching the most remote villages which in Mauritania is around EUR84. The majority of the country's inhabitants To get around, but it is a dangerous one. The most daring head to the iron mine. These trains are two kilometers long They transport iron ore. Travelers are permitted to get a concession that allows the state to keep The journey is far from a smooth ride, crossing the desert Push! Let go! This is a sand-blowing machine. It removes sand from the tracks. You see, our best friends are our brakes. Without them, we'd be done for. Indeed, once moving with its 181 wagons, it takes The train and its makeshift passengers set off for a journey The destination is Nouadhibou, They're due to arrive in a mere 18 hours, Along the way they come across nomads The drivers indulge in a tradition We're going to hand out bread. There are children there Yes, I see them. There they are. Each day the drivers Legend has it that thanks to these trains. Seen in this light, breezing through the desert You always have to be on your guard. Broken tracks Sometimes camels cross over That's the real danger. Though this doesn't affect the train, One camel can cost anywhere so in the event of accidents, This accident just happened. The train hit the camel Does this happen often? Passengers like Mamine sit on the wagons, enduring a hellish journey You get everything. There's the sand, dust, cold, and heat. Everything... Yes, just about everything. Not to mention the risks Mamine is a transporter. With the support of these men, Flour, oil, pasta, In total, one ton of merchandise. Look at the state of these cartons. No one tries to repair them. The cartons are not very sturdy. Moving them around This exhausting and dangerous work For him, it is torture, but at 56 years old, Last year, I ran my own shop. When I moved with my family to Nouadhibou, so that I could do My first trip was very difficult. I told myself that I was going Eventually, I had to make a second trip. But when I did it a second time, I'm used to it now. You need two or three blankets, sometimes four, Because it gets cold at night? Very cold It goes down to zero. It's the desert cold. When it's hot, it's very hot, The temperature not counting the wind. At the halfway point, It's at this moment that Mamine I never sleep at night. I wait until we've passed There's a lot of theft We have to remain vigilant and keep a close eye I like the work, even though it's tiring. It's a good job. I do these round trips between Zouerat It brings in EUR70, sometimes EUR80. It's better than nothing, There's sand on the tracks. On this day, disaster is averted. At around 5:30 am, an alarm triggers In order to identify the problem, the drivers must manually release We're going to have to walk. So what happened? I think it's located toward the tail end. That's far, right? We'll walk it. How many kilometers? This train is 1.8 kilometers long. One hour later, the mechanic realizes It's blocked here. Guys, I found the blockage. Around 50 of the wagons were loose. The 15,000 tons of goods on the connecting joints. Over there is a decline, We braked and then accelerated. Half of the train went backward, and the engine went forward, Three hours lost. Move slowly to join them together. It looks like Mamine Nouadhibou port is still That's it. Keep going until you hit it. Leaving opportunity for more obstacles to disrupt The Mauritanian giant recently among the world's largest trains. But it holds another significant title averaging at a speed Its four-wheeled Sid Ahmed and his co-pilot took three days and three nights I slept well. Now we must set off. They still had 40 to go but the toughest part This is the sandiest part of the journey, This stretch has many ups This part is very hilly. The truck will struggle. I just hope we'll get through it. With 22 tons on its back, the German truck little by little. We're going to have to get the sheets out. Okay, I'll go. These sheets will allow us to keep going. The sand causes Sid Ahmed's speed We'll have to get the sheets out again. After all their efforts in 45-degree heat, Open the hood to cool the engine. The two men are also overheated. Fortunately, their dessert fridge, We prefer to stop for lunch. It's too hot to keep driving, and that can cause I was stranded for ten days That's how long it took At this rate, the remaining 40 kilometers Fortunately for them, none of the goods Unlike the driver of this bush taxi. Massoud transports 100 kilograms He had to halt the journey so this morning Fresh fish comes I just hit my head on the roof. It's a very tricky journey. We think 100 times Ahmed, how are the fish doing? They're still frozen, If it weren't for me, No matter how tired I am, There are freezers Thirty-six hours and 300 kilometers Massoud finally delivers I hope the fish are cold today because I hope you didn't throw it away. The mackerel isn't exactly cold. Like the majority of desert villages, To preserve the food for a few days, the village pulled together but there's one problem. All the batteries are empty. This won't work We finally have the fish, I don't know what we're going to do. The villagers must eat it right away. Within one hour, How much would you like? Okay, that'll be EUR15. Moussaidf family? Bring your bag and give me the money. Put his fish in this bag. Aminetou, yours is ready. With global warming, villages like Akjoujt The Sahara is getting hotter and hotter, Entire populations are fleeing the desert. Just five years ago, Today the Sahara Everyone left here to move to big cities There is no more administration, Massoud and the four refuse to give up but how long will they hold on? The well is almost dried up. We take care not to waste water so that there is always enough Without water, we could not survive here. The state provides them with water. The villagers lay out this Then they wait for hours, for the horn to sound. The sound of the desert's The 480,000 liters of water determine the survival I'm attaching the pipe. This DIY hose leaks as much water There's a leak, and I must fix it. I'll use this inner tube We will not let the water go to waste Within half an hour, three containers have been filled a speedy operation The trains share one train track, By the time the moving system sets off, the iron ore convoy has caught up Mamine has been traveling and he is exhausted. He has more soot It's very tiring to travel like this. But as I said before, I have no choice. Mamine's grocery store and since then, Just like the transporter, one ton of merchandise The iron ore train is a real lifeline. It is the means by which many do business, During a stopover, To avoid having to carry too much food, I feed my donkey wheat I hang it around his neck it won't spill out. He can go a day He never complains. He is a very tough animal. The donkey represents Mustafa's He usually works as a sailor, I left my family behind. I didn't have a job. I tried breeding goats, This donkey is my new ticket to work. I bought it yesterday in Choum, It cost me EUR90. It will help me transport Thanks to the mining train, but though the iron train is free, Thirty kilometers from the finish line, The engine There are always problems with this train. It's too old, We were supposed to arrive It is now 3 pm. The delay is not a loss for all, however. Two street vendors emerged out of nowhere, hoping to make a buck from the breakdown. Here, cigarettes. I have flashlights, I must move quickly The street vendor needn't worry. The train will not leave This giant of the desert twenty-one hours after departure. Before entering the port of Nouadhibou, the rail workers allow time and it's a good job too. Lay him down on his side. If the animal gets injured, to his new work prospects. Hold the rope He's fine, completely unfazed. Mustafa will be able to send money home Mamine, on the other hand, is furious. The truck and its goods Hurry and load it up. We'll have to move quickly. Mamine, when will you be leaving? Mamine takes this journey He doesn't know how much He dreams of a truck After four days of hard work driving at the speed of a dromedary camel, Sid Ahmed makes Listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, Tichitt has long been one They've helped make the city's fortune, A witness to the city's glorious past, the library holds manuscripts Though the city its economy collapsed of the large merchant caravans. Getting to Tichitt Thank God. Hurry and get the goods down. The driver rushes everyone. He's to get back on the road The 3,000 inhabitants of Tichitt live mainly off the harvest During the rainy season, produces salt which mixes with the clay. It is called amasal or earth salt. It's not for cooking, as the Mauritanians who love it for good reason. The salt traps water in the body. This salt mine is a real gift from God. Right now, I'm breaking the salt. It's our principal activity. It's tough, but I never complain. How many sacks do you have? I have 18. I will only earn I have been working for hours. Even if it is difficult, I prefer doing this Aisha's husband left her alone We got here at 7 am and it is now 5 pm. We're going to go home and rest. My daughters don't enjoy this work, I have eight daughters and a son. That's a lot of mouths to feed. This work does that Come on, darling, we must go home. Once 20 tons of amasal is loaded, with barely any time to rest. Make sure to keep the stacks As soon as this has been loaded, Do you ever get tired? Duty calls. Mauritania has lived these past 15 years Certain regions are still to be avoided, but the country The Mauritanian state overcame one war, but now it faces another, Droughts are becoming increasingly severe. Sand is advancing even further, If global temperatures continue to rise, the desert will soon