I'm going to show you how to make the most or a crumble, it's both! And I'm going to serve delicious. Let's start with some tinned pears, their best they're processed really proficiently done all the hard work for you. So what I'm put it on a medium-high heat. I'm going to put my so that's just pure juice. So what we can do is get it down to a syrup which will be a natural bags of black forest mix. So in here we've got even blueberries and black currants. Brilliant! If up already? If we reduce that by half we're going give you a kind of syrup which is really really I'm going to use some vanilla, so one teaspoon of using is orange and you don't always have to use I use one of these fine graters or if you've got want to use like like a quarter of an orange just enough to really lift this whole story. So, you see that? So now in with those quarters of pair that's two 500g bags, I'm going to go in with 150g I'd go slightly less maybe 100g cuz it's a little we'll cook that down on like a medium heat for 5 up. And that is the perfect amount of time if you've never done it before come with I've got 200g of butter, beautiful unsalted because it's wobbling, what I want to do is add 400 plain flour. Okay and that is the ratio that for seasoning. I'm also going to put a little orange zest goes in. Will it make a difference? icing sugar as well goes in. And then we're going squash this butter and just rub it in like that. and push the butter into little flakes. It's a minutes while the fruit does its thing, look at fruit-based desserts is they can let off too much I guess. So we can control that in two ways, one a little look at this. So we're evaporating off brilliant is to use 30g or two heaped tablespoons when your tart once it's cooked gets to room bit and then it will control that liquidiness. while I'll finish this pastry. We'll take just in the middle. Then I'm going to add into here one use this second egg in two ways. The first way I'm to glaze the side of the beautiful tart shell. And one yolk. And then I'm just going to use my together to make a lovely pastry. So you want of moving sort of scrunching and patting it short means crumbly, crumbly means delicate, work it the harder it will get. So in no time at and our lovely crumbly topping, this will go in firm up, then I've got a great little hack on how look have a look at this, this has thickened up cool down, so I'll come back in half an hour So, we've had a little time to cool down the with pastry you would roll it out. There are kind of push it together. This one is a slightly I'm just going to grate it just like cheddar worry about are you doing it perfectly have gone about tears or cuts well that's not a problem sort of pushed like that together. So grate away. pushing this in to be one homogeneous little actually push up the sides. So have a little it and push it. What I like about this method and if you do it quite badly... it's great. And pastries and desserts I think that's a really good around but that's basically it. Now, we're not stage that you don't have to do for a normal filling and I'm going to put that inside. Look so get your juice in there. With this crumble scrunch it up a little bit and then kind of break crumble topping just lets it breathe a little bit look at that, gorgeous. So the only thing I'm egg white and just run the brush around that just going to go in the oven now for 45 minutes put it at the bottom of the oven. Why? So we get we get crispy bum, crispy side, and perfectly 180deg Celsius which is 350 Fahrenheit. That heat of the pastry case, the sides, the fruit will it's going to be a thing of joy with While that's cooking, please click and don't forget to subscribe. notification bell so you know what's So, it's had 45 minutes, it smells amazing, it It's like fruity lava with that crumble topping. to room temperature it will just firm up and it put it in the fridge as well it will firm up I'll serve that with a nice bit of vanilla Okay so you can see now it's cooled down it's beautiful. A nice little trick for getting it bowl. Turn it on its back. And then just equally nothing happens, but if you agitate it... is your lovely tart, you can see by grating the a little jug of boiling water, ice cream scoop. just popped it into the fridge just for like sharp knife. You can kind of try and support it doesn't matter if it does. Look at that! pie. And that on a plate with a nice little Exciting. Mm! Making your own pastry makes such crumblier, just such a joy. Guys please make this. and that method gives you such a wonderful rustic