Today we're going on a food tour around Amritsar. eat and drink around the city. That is the best a spice challenge. It's too spicy don't it's We at our first stop now called Kulcha Amritsar. It is crispy on the outside and soft on masala and potato and it is served with lentils a look at the process of how they're making the with the potatoes and all the spices. So they're it out and then it goes over to this side where the side of the tandoor. I've always wondered the tandoor. I find that really amazing that It's definitely an art but after that it comes to the ghee on the outside of the bread and it looks So this is an Amritsar Kulcha bread. So apparently there's a little test to see if it's fresh and nice and crispy. You just, It's really nice and crispy. It has some chutney So I'm going to try a combination of the chutney like. The bread is really delicious and it has a yummy. So this dish is actually for breakfast and We are now at the second stop about to try some lassi. when I have Indian food but here they have sweet lassi this time. We're just watching them make the there's big pots here with loads of yogurt and this pot is the sugar. Okay so he's adding in a so they're going to add the yogurt to the sugar So the cream of the yogurt is actually sitting on inside the lassi to make it a better consistency. you know where the water is coming from and it's recommended to drink. I think they're making I really don't want to get uh water poisoning if So it pretty much looks like a vanilla milkshake Let's see what it Actually really nice. You can certainly taste the sweetness. It's just like a sweet yogurt It's really flavorful. Okay I'm going to give the lassi a go. Little bit concerned about the Yeah. It's very nice actually. The quite a chewy texture. It's nice it's if I was going to like the plain lassi always come with mango flavor. This How's that? So I'm a little bit used so I'm actually not going to my parents are okay by the end of the lassi? You like it? It's good So we just about to catch a Currently in an electric tuk tuk. So that's compared to the other tuk tuks that are going cool. They're very spacious. Oh oh smell that was smelled absolutely amazing and completely We keep passing by all these restaurants and just It is such a colorful street that we Looks like we've just arrived at our next stop. Oh my gosh that [Music] We eating paneer bhudji and was put on top into the paneer they meal. I saw him put a few chilies Oh my gosh! Yum, wow that that's So the green one is apparently spicy and if you put it all in together it balances out That is amazing! Not too spicy not too really nice and that's how it's done. I don't Oh he's there, I thought we missed our guide. This is probably a good time to introduce our guide to you. Can you tell the viewers who you are I work for a company called walk and explore. So we to explore the new places and to have some amazing like this and taste some amazing flavors of India, so you can check that out. Thank you that was so we just tried there. I feel like my taste buds forward to seeing what we're going to be trying actually we're not quite ready to order. We have on the menu? Oh no it's not on the menu, it's Surf curry. Surf shark is our secret ingredient to keep like a imodium for our online adventures. It keeps we go. Really? What's so special about it? It's internet. No prying eyes, no hackers, just smooth over the world. CleanWare keeps pesky ads and malware I need. Absolutely, and you can get an exclusive Surf easy. Just enter our promo code JOLIFE and you'll no risk because Surf Shark offers a 30-day money deal! So fellow travelers, spice Surf Shark, the secret ingredient to [Music] We are about to have one of my favorite In this pot here they have boiling water. Over here they have the tea leaves and the masala. He's just added some sugar to this as well and it smells absolutely delicious and they boil the spices and out of the tea. I can't wait I think they're tea so I'm really glad when I times. This is definitely a busy chai place left. Everyone's looking at me by the had to break that weird silence. It's I'm not going to skin the roof of my Oh oh my gosh! That is the best masala tea I have ever tried. that is absolutely delicious. Some of the ones that I've had back home are water in them whereas this one is really delicious. I can really smell cardamon so Oh my gosh it's really sweet. Yeah you yes so nice. Really happy that it's sweet because I was a bit of sugar in that masala tea because I'm it's giving us energy to survive the rest you drive around the streets and then all of a I wish I could pat it but we're on a food tour so We have a new friend that has just to sit and enjoy this delicious meal with us Both chutneys okay. Put both on, It's really nice so it's a vegetarian meal we're a bit crunchy. The soy chunks you get in this meal paneer and it almost tastes a bit like it too and gravy on the outside. So it's really tasty and I sweet chutney. That is definitely my favorite. It just adds delicious flavor to the whole dish. It is delicious 10 out of 10 for this one. Can I just feel like they put butter in all their dishes here and it makes it taste so good. Yeah it's probably good we're only here for a week otherwise I would be a little bit worried about my waistline. Thank you to our new friends. It was really nice to meet you. There are so many places. There are so many places where you can also find delicious food. So many places. We have some new subscribers. Yay okay. See you later thank you! Bye. We are at our next stop. We're about Okay come with me let's go and have a look. We are just trying an Indian dessert it consists of ice cream and it has some kind of jelly. It has something called which is a whipped milk and then it has noodles in it. So these noodles are made from like. Tastes like sweet milk ice cream but I ice cream milk and noodles. Probably not my eat too much of it. I think doesn't look the most Oh I actually really like it. It reminds me a Kasper can't get over the noodle factor. I find it too sweet at all. It didn't really look actually tastes really nice. Alright ready, it actually tastes like Grandma's rice pudding. rice pudding. So I hope I indirectly didn't offend [Music] So just watching the process of they use the rice flour and they put it some sort of device to make the shape masala spices the cheese and some tomato absolutely delicious. I love dosas, so I can't [Music] Tonight we're going to try some masala dosa. And here we have a coconut chutney we have then we have a potato chutney which has like a That is absolutely delicious! Oh really good. Try a little bit of this. I'll try we have here this one is found here in Punjab. That is so good! If it wasn't for doing a food tour tonight we would never have found this in the back street. It is yeah. I really like the lentil soup. I think the sweet and sour chutney here, I think that's my favorite. Okay good that didn't take long to eat that by the way. We are at our eighth stop of the night and I'm excited to see what we're going to try apparently first non-vegetarian meal today. All I can smell here but it smells absolutely delicious. Okay Just found out today that Indians eat quite restaurant is absolutely deserted. So if you come and you won't get a seat. We've ordered a butter we're waiting they've invited us to go and take prepared. So let's go and take a look. We currently looks delicious. I'm getting hungry just looking at and so thick. I literally can't wait to try it. can smell all the spices. A little bit of cream and a little bit of butter. Here in India all Wow amazing! I don't really know what this is. I I think I'm going to try it. It's too spicy don't It's too spicy? Believe me. Going to give it a go fine. Okay okay. It's coming. Okay. I told you it's to spicy. Is it actually really spicy? It's pretty spicy. that. Okay he was right it's actually really Yeah it was too spicy. Oh our butter chicken You can't go wrong with the butter chicken. That was absolutely delicious stop number eight done and dusted. So I think we're We have just arrived at a place where we It is made from mango pulp it also has spices taste this. Apparently there's a sweet and a both and see which one we like best. Hello. Hello. Oh my gosh! Dry mango dry mango. Just got given a piece of dry mango so it looks a bit like It's quite sweet and it has a tanginess to it as Okay. Looks pretty. Almost tastes like a sweet Okay. That's a explosion in your spices on the outside cuz when you first bite into can then start to taste a sweet mango and it's a Yes the salt on the outside oh what what is on the you can eat the whole thing the shell everything? How is it? It's tangy. It's very tangy. Thanks for the mango tasting . Yeah yeah. It's a bit sticky. That was the last such a great experience. We certainly tried some of the night. I really like Paneer Bhudji. That was also chicken. It was absolutely delicious that was Well that's it for today's video. See you next time on, Living the Jo Life. I wasn't sure was Smells delicious! That's very close Kylie. Ella just hit my funny bone. It's I feel like it's almost like an Indian mashed potato without potato but paneer. I'm sorry to all the people That was really random. I like that coconut salsa here that's really nice. Salsa? Chutney Looks like a poo. Ella you didn't just say that?