The enemy is moving again. It's not difficult to spot them, they plod standing out like hay bale practice targets Despite this being the height of winter, nobody uniforms. Simo Hayha isn't one to complain though, if Certainly makes his job easier. He doesn't use a modern telescopic sight the Sure, the fancy glass is nice for really long He's seen too many of his friends get their away. Many of the enemy too- only this time it was Besides, using telescopic sights means you than you do with iron sights, and that's all off. If that wasn't bad enough, the cold weather a shooter useless. Instead, he uses good old fashioned iron sights It's been in service since 1891 but most of sights. For Simon though it's all he needs to do his Now, he watches the squad of Soviet soldiers their way towards his position. He couldn't ask for better targets. The men stand out like a sore thumb in their slows them down to practically a crawl. They can thank Stalin for that, he thinks mentally assigning an order to each kill, Army that saw it left with a bunch of idiots That's the only way to explain the terrible invading a country a fraction their size and in weeks of fighting. The fools even drive tanks over frozen lakes the ice and drown their crews. Stalin's purge of any Soviet leadership he not just cost the Red Army its best generals personnel too. What kind of idiot would send an entire army without snowshoes or white coats to help camouflage Simon clears his head, he's done assigning Whoever that idiot is, he's grateful. Slow, steady pressure on the trigger and the Less than half a second later, a Russian soldier Perfect shot, right below the throat. The Russians panic and begin to scatter. Some begin to return fire, shooting blindly them. Simon curses under his breath as he moves the soldier's movement. He meant to fire once the man had firm footing him from flying straight backwards and thus Instead he'd caught him just a breath too and the soldier off balance when the bullet the massive kinetic energy of the impact to A dead giveaway for a squad of professional They're conscripts, hastily drawn up from given ill-fitting uniforms that often leave from the extreme cold, and thrown into a disorganized, His next shot catches one of the men firing He had meant to kill him fourth, but the fool to fall near Simon's position. He has little fear of actually being seen, his killing cave, a hard packed hole in the The hardpacked snow helps muffle the rifle He allows the falling snow to accumulate over the hardpack he surrounds himself with, but from directly in front of him. That way the rifle doesn't cause a tell-tale Bam! The next shot catches the man he meant to It's a clean kill, just like he was taught game. They may be invaders and occupiers, but Simon they truly deserve. Vengeance is another man's game- Simon is Only seconds have passed since the ambush settled into three predictable roles. Some have thrown themselves into the ground, really, except the snow does little to stop Numbers four and five meet their death despite Others are running blindly, still unsure of To their credit, some are trying to do as but sadly have no idea which direction the Others are simply running for what looks like a fence post there. He ignores these for now. The third group is fleeing for their lives. In a panic, the Russians break and start to You can't fight what you can't see, and demoralized worse food, and abusive leadership, the threat to bear. So they run- but Simon doesn't let them. More than the men seeking cover and scanning greatest threat. If one of them gets back to friendly lines position, it could be a very bad day for Simon It won't be the first time that he's had to meant specifically just for him. Normally, his priority target would be the these men aren't carrying one. It's not just squads either, he's seen entire a system of runners. No wonder they're having such a hard time by the time they pin a target down and get attacking from a completely different direction. It's like a bad game of whack-a-mole played so late by the time artillery support comes That's why it's important to get the runners Three more rapid shots and there are now no Problem solved. Simon scans the survivors, clearly visible snow. He almost feels sorry for them, but he can Now he needs to finish his job. He scans once more for any signs of a squad charge. Unsurprisingly, he finds nobody. The Russians have never been good about fielding Explains why they're so awful at maneuvering. Satisfied that nobody is coordinating the to refill his mouth with fresh snow. He moves slowly, steadily and very methodically- The occasional rifle round falls near his but he's not concerned. It would take all the luck in the world for The fresh mouthful of snow is vital. It cools his breath before he exhales, so of steam. Ready to continue his grim work, he brings He adjusts for the rising wind and squeezes Another Russian mother who'll never see her You shouldn't have let a dictator send him Simon works slowly, methodically. Even taking shots too close together threaten to pinpoint his location by the sound of the Instead, he takes a shot, then simply waits, Then he repeats. Over and over again until finally, only one This one is well protected. He hid behind a rock as the ambush began, good bead on him. At least the Russian's figured out which direction boulder between himself and Simon. It has now turned into a standoff with only The first is the soldier gets lucky and another by and he flags them down. That could be problematic for Simon, he's vehicle and taking on an additional squad out of ammo first, sheer numbers will likely The second is that the soldier chooses to The sun is still high in the sky, but days A few more hours and darkness will cover the There is a third option, Simon supposes. He could just let the man go. There's already eleven fresh corpses in the What's a twelfth? Is killing just one more invader really going These are the internal struggles Simon details until years after his death. He calls it his "book of sins", a personal, soldiers that after the war he'll estimate He doesn't bother justifying, he's already Instead, he decides, and then acts. His first shot strikes the boulder near the Predictably, the impact of the bullet causes of razor sharp granite exploding outwards. The soldier catches a few to the face and That's all Simon needs. The second shot ends the Russian's life. But it's not a clean kill. It couldn't be. He only had two inches, maybe two and a half Instead of an immediate kill by penetrating upper layers of the brain and shore them away This sends the soldier flying on his back, brain tries to cope with the massive damage Simon curses and forgets to regulate his breathing, This isn't right, kills should be clean- whether He tries to readjust for a killing shot, but dying man. The only parts of him visible to Simon are struggles to process electrical signals to Neither of which will allow Simon to achieve There's nothing he can do for him. A full minute and a half later, the Russian Simon curses again, and apologizes to the Or maybe it's to God. Later he'll have time for regret and repentance, The entire exchange seems to have gone on fifteen minutes. Most of the killing was in the first few minutes, mopping up. Now is not the time to drop his guard though, soldiers before him, but that doesn't mean It's been at least two weeks since domestic The Finnish newspapers call him the "White on him at all- specially not on the staggering the occupiers. Later in life rumors will circulate that it the White Death, but in reality it was always To add to his mystique, the papers add additional that his bullets can pierce even tank armor The Russian newspapers may not be running but that doesn't mean they aren't extremely In fact, intelligence intercepts have confirmed snipers looking to eliminate him. It's these he's now carefully scanning the When the war first began he would have never squad of young conscripts as bait just to fighting he's witnessed Soviet tactics for Often they send hundreds of conscripts to and artillery just so their more veteran troops attack. The Russians are fighting a war of attrition bullets until all magazines and cartridges This is largely because they're simply too If Stalin is popular at home, he's more popular Unfortunately though Finland is a fraction is working. Today, Simon is concerned that this ambush These men were sacrificial lambs. The day is silent except for the distant sound Simon remains perfectly still. Snipers can't remain in one position for long counter-snipers, so most snipers will make eliminating their targets. Simon however stays absolutely still, maintaining alive for weeks on the front even as he penetrated His position is good, he's situated on the hours last night digging himself into the He's avoided the tree line and the cover it his position in the dead of night, the snow Once Simon was dug in sufficiently, the fresh digging. The downslope position has two advantages. First, it makes the few parts of him that the sun casting a shadow over his part of Second, as the falling snow creates new snowdrifts, helping camouflage him further. But he's picked this specific hill for a third of year, and as it does it will fall mostly That means anyone hunting for him will be All Simon has to do is wait patiently, maintain His body aches to move and stretch after six these thoughts out of his mind as he continues for a threat he instinctively feels is there. Something, a third sense, has him on edge. When the growing hunger becomes difficult other snipers might. Denying yourself food often leads to you becoming Instead, he carries small pieces of bread He moves slowly, deliberately, almost imperceptibly The effort takes him a half hour to complete, The sugar cube is dissolved in a fraction to keep the shakes away. Crows have begun to work at the bodies down He doesn't dare check his watch, but instead shadows. Three, maybe four hours since the ambush- But he can't shake that feeling of being hunted, there, waiting for him to make one mistake. Maybe it's a sixth sense, or maybe it's just exactly what he would do. The lives of twelve men in exchange for the With Simon's kill count approaching two hundred exchange. He's stayed alive by always planning for all one. This ambush location wasn't chosen at random, reason why becomes clear. With the sun now behind him, it is firmly And more importantly... there! The hunt is over in less than a second. That's the benefit of not using a scope. It narrows your field of view too much. It's nice for picking out details, but too down the lens of their scope and missing out Not Simon. Using only his old rifle's iron sights he enemy's scope in movement, searching and scanning A few pounds of trigger pressure later, and He must have killed the Russian immediately The only thing that gives the well-hidden patch of crimson in the fresh white snow. But still Simon doesn't move. His only celebration is a fresh mouthful of and prevent his position being given away It's discipline more than accuracy that keeps He eliminated one hunter, but there could Minutes turn to an hour, Simon still doesn't With the sun only twenty minutes from fully roaring of distant artillery. The sound is quickly followed by the screaming into a grove of trees to his right. So there was another sniper. Only with the sun starting to set he knew Having failed to locate Simon, the Russian artillery strike in the general area, hoping him to slip away once more. The artillery rocks the hill and surrounding Most of it is falling onto the grove of trees to matchsticks rounds start falling into the The fire is being guided by the enemy sniper, spots. He'd never dream Simon was hiding in plain a good sniper never picks the obvious spots. That doesn't mean he's safe though, as artillery A round proves this point by smashing into up massive plumes of snow. He can hear the angry buzzing of razor-sharp He stays cool though, all the time scanning Panicking now would be a death sentence, as under the cover of incoming rounds, he has This isn't the first time the Russians have won't be the last time. The barrage continues fifteen minutes after Rounds come uncomfortably close, but the falling The enemy has used artillery to sweep across standing in its wake. Even the bodies below have been ravaged by speed shrapnel. Yet Simon remains, and when it becomes clear his move. There's still a low fog of snow in the air artillery, and this, along with the cover to make his escape. Simon avoids the actual crest of the hill and dancing lights of the far northern sky. Instead, he moves along the military crest, heading into the cover of the twisted and Once there, he follows the curve of the hill from observation on all sides. He's picked his escape route as carefully detail to chance. In minutes, he's left his old position and the hour he'll be back behind friendly lines. He takes pains to announce his approach to that's been told to expect him and several before. Entering the camp, his commanding officer The man looks exhausted, spent after another The Russians have the numbers, but the Fins fighting spirit- they are proving a very difficult "It's good you did not die, Simon.", his in the direction of a hot meal- a rare luxury "Was it a good hunt?" Simon simply nods, gives a quick figure of Not all kills can be verified independently, of war, there is little reason to doubt his he takes no pleasure in any of them. It is simply his duty, carried out without country, and the moment they pack up and leave, Until then though he'll continue his hunt, he himself is killed in return. Simon has no idea that in less than four months sniper, with the highest body count in history- Then again, he is operating in a target rich motivation, or even proper winter equipment. Simon's body count- or his tally of sins as to the evil of dictators than to his own competency. But that's not to say that Simon Hayha is and there are thirteen fresh Russian corpses For now, he tucks into his hot meal and mentally ways he could have improved his efficiency weaknesses he can eliminate in the future. His mind is always working, always preparing longs for peace. Now go check out What Actually Makes A Sniper instead!