Chickens run to mother hen; Pigs are curled in their pens. In the field all tired with play, Quiet now the lambs will stay. Kittens cuddle in a heap-- Child, too, must go sleep. Now the cows from pasture come; Bees fly home with drowsy hum. Little birds are in the nest, Under mother-bird's soft breast. Over all soft shadows creep-- Child now must go to sleep. Late at night when you're in bed, Mr. Owl perks up his head. He looks left and he looks right, In the dark all through the night. Hear him hoot when you're in bed, When Mr. Owl perks up his head-- Beautiful world outside, Even in the night. Late at night when you're in bed, Mr. Owl perks up his head. He looks left and he looks right, In the dark all through the night. Hear him hoot when you're in bed, When Mr. Owl perks up his head-- Beautiful world outside, Even in the night. Robin-friend has gone to bed, Little wing to hide his head-- Mother bird must slumber too Just as baby robins do-- When the stars begin to rise, Birds and babies close their eyes. Oh, close your eyes-- Robin-friend has gone to bed, Little wing to hide his head-- Mother bird must slumber too Just as baby robins do-- When the stars begin to rise, Birds and babies close their eyes. Oh, close your eyes-- Close your eyes. In my soft bed, when quite alone, God watches me with care: Sees me, at rising, kneeling down And listens to my prayer. In my soft bed, when quite alone, God watches me with care: Sees me, at rising, kneeling down And listens to my prayer. The flowers nod, the shadows creep, A star comes over the hill; The youngest lamb has gone to sleep, The smallest bird is still. The world is full of drowsy things And sweet with candlelight; The nests are full of folded wings-- Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight! At evening when I go to bed I see the star shine overhead; They are the little daisies white That dot the meadow of the night-- Of the night. At evening when I go to bed I star shine overhead; They are the little daisies white That dot the meadow of the night-- Of the night. Jesus, the tender Shepherd, hear me; Bless Thy little lamb tonight; Through the darkness be Thou near me; Watch my sleep till morning light. Jesus, the tender Shepherd, hear me; Bless Thy little lamb tonight; Through the darkness be Thou near me; Watch my sleep till morning light. The rabbits play no more, The little birds are weary. The buttercups are folded up. Good night, good night, my dearie. The children in the country, The children in the city, Go to bed with nodding heads-- Good night, good night, my pretty. The rabbits play no more, The little birds are weary. The buttercups are folded up. Good night, good night, my dearie. The children in the country, The children in the city, Go to bed with nodding heads-- Good night, good night, my pretty. Chickens run to mother hen; Pigs are curled in their pens. In the field all tired with play, Quiet now the lambs will stay. Kittens cuddle in a heap-- Child, too, must go to sleep. Now the cows from pasture come; Bees fly home with drowsy hum. Little birds are in the nest, Under mother bird's soft breast. Over all soft shadows creep-- Child now must go to sleep. Late at night when you're in bed, Mr. Owl perks up his head. He looks left and he looks right, In the dark all through the night. Hear him hoot when you're in bed, When Mr. Owl perks up his head-- Beautiful world outside, Even in the night. Late at night when you're in bed, Mr. Owl perks up his head. He looks left and he looks right, In the dark all through the night. Hear him hoot when you're in bed, When Mr. Owl perks up his head-- Beautiful world outside, Even in the night. Robin-friend has gone to bed, Little wing to hide his head-- Mother bird must slumber too Just as baby robins do-- When the stars begin to rise, Birds and babies close their eyes. Oh, close your eyes-- Robin-friend has gone to bed, Little wing to hide his head-- Mother bird must slumber too Just as baby robins do-- When the stars begin to rise, Birds and babies close their eyes. Oh, close your eyes-- Close your eyes. In my soft bed, when quite alone, God watches me with care: Sees me, at rising, kneeling down, And listens to my prayer. In my soft bed, when quite alone, God watches me with care: Sees me, at rising, kneeling down, And listens to my prayer. The flowers nod, the shadows creep, A star comes over the hill; The youngest lamb has gone to sleep, The smallest bird is still. The world is full of drowsy things, And sweet with candlelight; The nests are full of folded wings-- Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight! At evening when I go to bed I see the star shine overhead; They are the little daisies white That dot the meadow of the night-- Of the night. At evening when I go to bed I see the starshine over head; They are the little daisies white That dot the meadow of the night-- Of the night. Jesus, the tender Shepherd, hear me; Bless Thy little lamb tonight; Through the darkness be Thou near me; Watch my sleep till morning light. Jesus, the tender Shepherd, hear me; Bless Thy little lamb tonight; Through the darkness be Thou near me; Watch my sleep till morning light. The rabbits play no more, The little birds are weary. The buttercups are folded up. Good night, good night, my dearie. The children in the country, The children in the city, Go to bed with nodding heads-- Good night, good night, my pretty. The rabbits play no more, The little birds are weary. The buttercups are folded up. Good night, good night, my dearie. The children in the country, The children in the city, Go to bed with nodding heads-- Good night, good night, my pretty. Chickens run to mother hen; Pigs are curled in their pens. In the field all tired with play, Quiet now the lamps will stay. Kittens cuddle in a heap-- Child, too, must go to sleep. Now the cows from pasture come; Bees fly home with drowsy hum. Little birds are in the nest, Under mother-bird's soft breast. Over all soft shadows creep-- Child now must go to sleep. Late at night when you're in bed, Mr. Owl perks up his head. He looks left and he looks right, In the dark all through the night. Hear him hoot when you're in bed, When Mr. Owl perks up his head-- Beautiful world outside, Even in the night. Late at night when you're in bed, Mr. Owl perks up his head-- He looks left and he looks right, In the dark all through the night. Hear him hoot when you're in bed, When Mr. Owl perks up his head-- Beautiful world outside, Even in the night. Robin-friend has gone to bed, Little wing to hide his head-- Mother bird must slumber too Just as baby robins do-- When the stars begin to rise, Birds and babies close their eyes. Oh, close your eyes-- Robin-friend has gone to bed, Little wing to hide his head-- Mother bird must slumber too Just as baby robins do-- When the stars begin to rise, Birds and babies close their eyes. Oh, close your eyes-- Close your eyes. In my soft bed, when quite alone, God watches me with care: Sees me, at rising, kneeling down, And listens to my prayer. In my soft bed, when quite alone, God watches me with care: Sees me, at rising, kneeling down, And listens to my prayer. The flowers nod, the shadows creep, A star comes over the hill; The youngest lamb has gone to sleep, The smallest bird is still. The world is full of drowsy things, And sweet with candlelight; The nests are full of folded wings-- Goodnight, goodnight, goodnight! At evening when I go to bed I see the star shine overheadl They are the little daisies white That dot the meadow of the night-- Of the night. At evening when I go to bed I see the star shine overhead; They are the little daisies white That dot the meadow of the night-- Of the night. Jesus, the tender Shepherd, hear me; Bless Thy little lamb tonight; Through the darkness be Thou near me; Watch my sleep till morning light. Jesus, the tender Shepherd, hear me; Bless Thy little lamb tonight; Through the darkness be Thou near me; Watch my sleep till morning light. The rabbits play no more, The little birds are weary. The buttercups are folded up. Good night, good night, my dearie. The children in the country, The children in the city, Go to bed with nodding heads-- Good night, good night, my pretty. The rabbits play no more, The little birds are weary. The buttercups are folded up. Good night, good night, my dearie. The children in the country, The children in the city, Go to bed with nodding heads-- Good night, good night, my pretty.