Today I made German potatoes with new potatoes. Hello, I'm Yukari, a cookery researcher. This channel introduces various cooking recipes and useful information. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. Easy recipes at home Today I want to make German potatoes with new potatoes. This time I will be showing you a delicious German potato recipe using new potatoes, a vegetable that is in season right now. The ingredients are easy to find and very simple to make. There are some key points here and there, so please enjoy the show to the end. Please have a look at it. Easy recipes at home Let's start by introducing today's ingredients. Here are the ingredients. Potatoes, onions, bacon, garlic, olive oil, granulated consomme, mustard, mirin, salt, pepper, parsley This time we will use these ingredients. First, potatoes. This time we will use new potatoes, which are in season right now. I'm going to use the skin of the new potatoes because the skin is soft. So be sure to wash them clean and wipe them dry. And onions. We will use regular onions here, but you can also use fresh onions. And as for the bacon, this time we will use thick slices of bacon. If you don't have it, you can substitute thinly sliced bacon or sausage. If you don't have garlic, you can use a tube of garlic, but I recommend using fresh garlic because it tends to splatter in the oil and also because fresh garlic has a better aroma. And the key to seasoning is mirin. A little bit of sweetness from mirin gives the potatoes a rich flavor and makes them very tasty German potatoes. I will make it with these ingredients as soon as possible. Easy recipes at home Now let's start making them. First, we have potatoes. We're going to cut these new potatoes into bite-sized pieces. As I said before, this time I will use the whole skin, so please wash them clean and wipe them dry. Now I will cut it into bite-size pieces. Can use any method that is easy to cut. If there are buds, be sure to remove them. Cut the potatoes like this. And when you are done cutting, put them in a bowl. And then soak it in water. Soak the whole thing in water like this and leave it like this for about 5 minutes to remove the scum. Now I will continue to cut the onions. Onions will be sliced. Slice along the fibers. Remove the core. Slice onions like this. Leave this one like this until you are ready to use it. Now let's continue with the garlic. The garlic cloves are first cut in half. Then remove the garlic sprouts. This is the cause of burning and the source of the exasperation later on, so be sure to remove it. Remove this side as well. And once the sprouts are removed, chop them up. Chop them in a way that is easy to cut. Garlic is now ok. Now I will continue to chop the parsley for the topping. Chop this one up as you see fit. This is the parsley for the topping. Now I will continue to cut the bacon. I will cut the bacon roughly 1 cm wide. For thin slices, I would suggest that you cut them roughly 1 cm wide as well. After cutting like this, cut again in the same way with a width of about 1 cm. Bacon is now ready. Easy recipes at home It has been 5 minutes since the potatoes were soaked in water. Then once you have done so, please dump out the water here. OK. I would suggest that you rinse it lightly once when you dump the water. Then I will put a fluffy wrap here. And make one air inlet/outlet like this. Now heat this in a microwave oven 600w for 6 minutes. Heated for 6 minutes. Then remove plastic wrap. It is hot, so be careful not to burn yourself. And check that it is cooked properly by piercing it with a bamboo skewer. OK. Heat until a bamboo skewer passes through. Be careful not to overcook the fish, or it will lose its shape when it is stir-fried. The heating time may vary depending on your microwave oven and the way you cut the potatoes. The potatoes are now ready. Easy recipes at home Now I will fry them in a frying pan. First of all, olive oil in the frying pan. And here is the garlic. Now put it on the fire. Heat: Low to medium heat. Continue to heat once until the garlic aroma is released. Heat the garlic so that the entire garlic clove is immersed in the olive oil. When the garlic starts to boil and smells like this, it's ready. Then put the onion here. And also fry the bacon together. And continue to fry the onions until they are about 80% cooked. Sometimes the bacon oil splashes, so be careful of oil splashes. Once the onions and bacon are added, the heat should be medium-high. Once most of the oil has been used, season with salt and pepper. Then fry. OK. When the onions are about 80% cooked, and the bacon is slightly nipped by the oil, that's about right. Then you put the potatoes in here. If there is any water in the potatoes at this time, please remove this. Then put in this one. Have ho. Once added, fry the potatoes in the oil so that the whole oil is involved in the potatoes. Fry the potatoes after about 1 minute. Turn the oil thoroughly. At this time, the heat should be medium-high. After about 1 minute of frying, lightly brown the cross sections by sticking them to the bottom of the pan like this. The degree of browning is up to you. The flavor is further enhanced by the addition of a little savory flavor. Just be careful not to burn it. OK. Bake for roughly 1 to 2 minutes while browning. Then finally, season to taste. First of all, here is mirin. And consomme. The rest is mustard. Let's fry this. OK. Finally, taste and season with salt and pepper. Turn off heat. Now I would like to put it in a bowl. Easy recipes at home Now the German potatoes are ready. This is how it turned out. Potatoes are finished like this. Now it is finished. Then I would like to have it immediately. Then, I will have it. The skin of this potato is soft and the sweetness of the potato makes it very tasty. This bacon is delicious with the flavor of the bacon oil and the garlic afterwards. Please subscribe to my channel Deliciously finished today. This is the key to German potatoes with new potatoes this time. First of all, we're using potatoes, and this time we're using new potatoes, which are in season right now. The skin of these new potatoes is soft, so you can use the whole skin. The skin is soft, so you can use it with the chicken. And once you cut the potatoes, remove the scum and then microwave them. When you fry potatoes, it takes a little time to cook through, so microwave them once and then fry them. This will save time and also prevent them from losing their shape. And as for the bacon, I used thick-cut bacon this time. Can use thin slices here, or you can substitute sausage. Can make it with whatever you like. And when you fry them, first add the garlic to the olive oil and cook until fragrant. If you use a tube of grated garlic at this point, it will splash a lot of oil, so if you add a tube of grated garlic, add it at the same time you add the onions. And then I hope you can finish by lightly browning the potatoes. The ingredients are easy to find and very simple to make. It is very tasty and you should try to make it. Easy recipes at home Today I made German potatoes with new potatoes. I have many other various videos on my channel. Please subscribe to my channel and enjoy. I also post on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, and TikTok, so we would appreciate it if you would like to like, follow, and share our posts. Thank you very much. So that's all for today. Thank you for watching to the end today. Please give us a good button. See you in the next video. Bye.