Selling sesame cakes, selling sesame cakes, go away, go away, go away, go away , hide, go away, go away, he is not a prisoner , go away, go away, go back, I will be an anti-Japanese ghost even if I die, ah , ah, hurry up Run, run, go, go, beggar, come on, don't you see him killing people? Come on, I said you are so poor and stupid, standing here waiting to be shot. Come on, go on, kill, ah , ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah , ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, it looks good, it looks good. He looks good. He beat that devil to death. Hey , hey, hey, hey , hey , he can deflect the things I throw. Hey , hey, hey, hey, well beaten , well beaten, well beaten, well beaten, well beaten. Okay, okay, thank you all, thank you all . It's really great. You've worked hard. Man , hum embroidery needle. You recognized it. Iron Head Man hum. Did they release your strength? Or did you not want to kill them? None of them . None of them. The Japs are quite powerful. I think their skills are only like this. Are you going to beat the Japs in Embroidery Village? Why don't you go ? We won't go . What will those anti-Japanese soldiers do? If they go, they will die. Say goodbye. Are you really going to Yu? From now on in this city, we'd better go less often. None of those little devils are good. I'm already dressed like this. They shouldn't be able to tell. But I think there are a few devils and thieves, and their eyes are still on you. Look at that, I will become an old woman from now on. Hey, hey, these bastards, why don't God just kill them all? Stop, stop, stop, stop , stop, stop, stop , stop, stop, stop , stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop , stop. Stop and shoot , ah , oh, dad , oh, oh, dad , what's wrong with you, are you okay, daughter, what's wrong with my feet, sir, he's dead, hahaha, what's wrong with my feet , oh, oh, yo, yo, please be gentle, please be gentle. It hurts so much. It hurts me so much. You arrest everyone from the end of No. 8 Road, Mrs. Dad. We are not Tubal Road. We are good people . You and Tubal Road are talking to you about where Tubal Road is. Why don't you tell me where Tubal Road is? It's a dead joint. Hey , we are passing by here on the way home. Too bad . Jun Taijun, Taijun, Taijun , um , Taijun , oh, flower girl, Taijun from Tubal Road, this is my daughter, this is not Tubal Road, Bage, oh, daddy, flower girl, take the old man away , dead, dead, he is my daughter He is not Tu Bagong. Taijun , go, Taijun, go, go, go. Taijun, Taijun , that's my daughter. Taijun, go, Taijun. Taijun, go, Taijun, go. Taijun , daddy, it's okay, it's okay. Our donkey is running away, running away. Old man, are you okay ? It's okay. Thank you. It's okay. Just go home. Hero, don't walk on my father's feet. I can't walk, old man. Where do you live? Our home is in Kongjiazhuang , Kongjiazhuang. Kongjiazhuang is more than 20 miles away from here. Isn't that right? Our donkey ran away and you said to me, old man , please bear with me and I'll send you away . That's a good relationship. Thank you, sir. Thank you for coming. Please bear with me and thank you. As a result, you'll have to wait for this high official. One day, I smashed your pig-headed eunuch. Well, let's get off the car and start. It's okay . Chinese soldiers , they will definitely win . Is it possible that Wu Jiao is really here? I can tell at a glance that she is here to rob the execution ground. I don't know if I catch her. You are here. Inside, I want to see if you dare to go out. As soon as we show up, no matter how good your qinggonggong is, you will never escape the sight of my two snipers. Is Taijun ready? Can we start? Do it with the little devil for China. Revenge for the people , revenge for the Chinese, and now the martial arts competition will begin soon. Now I will re-tell the rules of the martial arts competition. The general said that he will never break his promise. The Chinese people will be released in the field of justice. A Chinese soldier will be released in a few games. He will lose as many as he wants. Just kill a few imperial troops on the field. I also said that you can't kill them one by one and you can't place them one by one. You have to wait until the end of 5 games to count them together. If I see them, I will kill them together and release them. Let's release them together. I want to win with the Chinese. The Chinese who win together must abide by the rules. Anyone who doesn't abide by the rules will be shot. Everyone, listen clearly . Stop rambling. Let's get started. This is the last rule and the most important one. Everyone is only allowed to compete once , no matter whether they win or lose. It 's only allowed to be a one-time contest . Now I'm announcing the official start of the contest. I invite the Japanese samurai to come on stage. Look at this young man, he brought a knife and it exploded when he looked at it . Yeah , now it's the Chinese's turn. Who's fighting first? I , I played the first game. It's okay. Don't worry. It's okay. Don't go to training. You can't go. He is an embroidery needle. Our great hero Liao is born with a good embroidery needle. He is an embroidery needle. Well done. Well done. Well done. Let's see how I clean up this. Help the little devil . The little devil is quite handsome. Just wait for death. Hum, I'm afraid you won't be able to wait even if I wait for 100 years. How do you know that I 'm staring at you like a fool? Do you want to fight ? If you don't want to fight, get out and replace him with someone who dares to fight. Hmm , no need to be polite. It's not too late to kneel down after the beating. Oh, the little devil's kung fu is so good. His feet are so smelly . He beats well. He beats well. Hey, hey, hey , I want my life. Ah, no way , ah, ok, ok , ok, oh, oh, why is it so dirty ? I remembered that I just stepped on dog poop and forgot to wipe it off . Hahahaha. Good fight. Good good performance. Good good performance . Keep on playing. Good. Beat him to death. Beat him to death. Good. Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh . A Chinese victory. Well played. Well played. Li Shenghao played well. Well done . Well done. Please take the seat. Well done. That's enough traitor. Well done , good brothers. How can the devils leave the four heroes behind ? There are many sniper companies. Captain, please don't be afraid, idiot. The person you are counting on has already met the King of Hell. Don't even think about shooting. Do n't make any noise. The second competition will begin soon. Chinese, who will challenge who? Who ? Brother , is he Iron Head Man? Hero, you are a ghost. If he refuses to speak, he must be a ghost. The ghost is called by the devil. He is sent by the gods. He is sent by the gods to kill the devils. Good, good, good. Defeat them. Defeat them. Please tell me your name. Are you crazy ? The one who spoke is Shencha Tiezhu hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha ! If a master hits him with one hit , it will be difficult for him to enter again . Moreover, the Japanese machine gunners and snipers must also be numbing him. What are you going to do ? Go and find some Chinese to come to the third game. Ahhhhh . Stop it. What are you talking about? Come on , I hope we can win again. If you want revenge, don't be so anxious. I'll wait for you after the competition. As long as you block my way, I will definitely kill you. Okay , I'll wait for you. Keep fighting . Shanmu, why don't you give the order? Kill him. Captain, please calm down. They still have two people who haven't shown up. Once they all come on stage, we can kill them all. Humph, the Chinese who are coming at the beginning of the third game, please tell me your name. You are not Chinese. Which nest are you from? Hahaha, yes. Ah, which den are you from? Yuxiang. Tell them your name and scare them to death. Song Wujiao is not you. Song Wujiao is a heroine . It's okay to call her a heroine. The devil will wet his pants after hearing this. Hahahaha . Song Wujiao, look at yours. Is the water made of iron ? Hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey , hey hey hey hey hey hey hey , hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey were they were , they were good . Didn't I tell you that I won't let you come? I can come when I want and no one can stop me. I don't want to stop you. Can't you see this battle? They want to kill us all. If you don't believe it, you can watch him walk away after the fight is over. You can leave me now ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah a report to the name Du Dapeng Dapeng Dapeng . Oh oh oh oh, is it too easy for us to win? That's because the little devil is incompetent. That's too incompetent. Come on , why are you thinking so much ? Little devil, go down quickly. You are not his opponent. His bones will be broken by him later. Yeah, Iron Man, stop being a monkey and you're welcome with the little devils, ah , ah, ah , ah, ah, ah, ah, China Life, good Sam, isn't this self-inflicted? This is the only way to keep them, his trump card is still behind, sue Zhengyi . A samurai replaced the Watanabe martial talisman. Why is this the last battle? We went to this one and retreated without fighting. Now is the last competition. Does anyone dare to come up? Battalion Commander Wang , you said you also want to go up. The battalion commander wants to fight with you. They are together. He must be the one who kills the sniper with the bolt. All heroes, as soon as you hear the sound of gunshots, please leave immediately. What should we do with those Chinese soldiers after we leave? Listen to him, yes, the little devil can't stop him. We yeah , hey, hey, hey , hey, he is testing the strength of the Japanese. If there is anything to test, just kill him. This is where he disagrees with us. This is a person who is good at using his brain. How can a person who is so good at thinking not have enough fun? He has the final say. Could it be that he broke out? No way , huh huh huh oh god. This is not a trap. This is a big pit . Up up, devil. They were all poisoned. It was not easy to get you guys together, but you still did it. Maybe you stopped them , but they are not greedy people. You should have expected that, so I stand here with you . If you think you can still get out alive, then give it a try. If you still want to try, maybe I can unscrew your head. My machine guns and snipers won't let you do that. Do you really think there are still machine guns and snipers? What king ? Battalion Commander Wang, Battalion Commander , ah, ah, that is your ammunition and weapons arsenal. Our team needs ammunition and weapons. Thank you very much for transferring the troops here. The scum of Japanese women is next. You should know that even if we all die in battle , you will Don't even think about escaping and killing one . Kill two and earn one. How can I earn ten or eight ? How can I earn ten or eight? There must be dozens. My embroidery needle is like a machine gun. A large number of them will die as soon as they take action. You know their strength and courage, but I have to remind you again. If I raise my hand again, I guarantee that the first ones to die will be you and your company captain. As for the two machine guns in this You don't need to remind me about the lethality at close range. Then what do you want? Retreat your team immediately. I promise not to kill you . Of course, if you are not afraid of death, you can stay. Let's compete and retreat. Retreat immediately. The company captain orders a retreat. The company captain orders a retreat. Battalion Commander Wang is really amazing. No wonder the commander calls him Mu Shenfeng. Eunuch , it seems you really don't want to leave. If you want to be beaten, just stand still. It doesn't matter. Let's wait and see. We will accompany you to the end . Mr. Wang, Dapeng, will apologize to you. What crime is there for a hero to be daring? Fortunately, Mr. Wang , otherwise this would really be the burial place for a few of us. It's a pity that we didn't save those people. Don't worry, heroes, one day we will have to repay Mr. Cat with their blood . These brothers are all anti-Japanese heroes. Let's bury them. It can be considered as a shelter for them . Wu Jiao , Wu Jiao , Wu Jiao, Wu Jiao, heroes, are you looking for Song Nuxia? Have you seen him? When did you see him leaving just now? When the Japanese car drove away, wasn't it noisy? Mr. Wang, I have to go find Wu Jiao . He has already gone to find Tufeiyuan. I'll go with you. What about these soldiers ? Come on, you two, you didn't bury these Chinese soldiers properly. Mr. Liao and I went to find Minister Song so we could go for a walk . Oh , let's go . Miss Song, don't call her Miss Song. It's very dangerous for you to do this. Mr. Wang is right to do this. You will suffer a loss one day. I don't need you to worry about Miss Song. Revenge is not something that happens overnight . We just need to think about it in the long term. If Miss Song is willing, I, Wang Mufeng, am willing to help the girl. Thank you Wu Jiao, Mr. Liu, can you give me some time? Who can go ahead, Mr. Wang, please enlighten me. Oh , wow, ah, ah , ah, Mr. Wang, I lost, Mr. Du, I'm serious, you didn't lose to me, you lost to yourself , and you were irritated by yourself . It was too hasty, otherwise we might not be able to tell the winner if we fight for another two hours. Come on , I don't get irritated that easily. Of course , Mr. Liao, I think we should not fight. Why is it that Mr. Wang is afraid of my embroidery needle? Mr. Wang, don't worry, I will not say that to a good person who uses embroidery needles . This is Mr. Liao's special skill. Otherwise, why would you call me embroidery needle? What if I can break your embroidery needle? If Mr. Wang can break my embroidery needle, I, Liao Tiansheng , am willing to be driven. Just say it. How do you break my embroidery array? Let me speak . Mr. Wang, please tell me how to break my embroidery needle. What do you think of Mr. Liao ? Loyalty does not mean that husbands are not husbands. Okay, let's go. Mr. Tie, do you still want to fight ? That's good. Please, Mr. Tie, use your eagle claw bow to grab my palm. If you grab it , I lose. If you can't grab it, you can't grab it. If you can't, I can't break my hand. If Mr. Tie wants to cut off his hand, then don't do it until now. Let's be brothers . 1 Oh , Mr. Tian, please get up quickly. Didn't we agree to be brothers? Big brother, get up. Since we have agreed to be brothers , brothers can't talk about this, Mr. Jing. If you didn't turn that wrist just now, my palm would have been caught by you . Haha , okay , please come over here. Hahaha, everyone. Please, please . Brother, please come. This is my place. How can I be advanced? Please , hahaha, okay. Since Mr. Tie is so benevolent and righteous , I won't be polite. Mr. Tie is a person who accepts death. Unlike us, he can just drink it. But I am different from you . We are all brothers. There is no need to be so particular . Brothers , sit down and talk. Come on, come on. It's so fun to watch you guys fight. I wish I had their two moves. Hahaha , your two moves are also very powerful. This Xiao Wang is the sharpshooter of our army. If he and the kid didn't cover us today, it would be very difficult for us to escape. It's nothing, hahaha. This girl is also a sharpshooter. And her skills are not limited to these. You will gradually know this in the future. Hello everyone, the Eighth Route Army can be more serious. Mr. Du is right. It's not just us. Personally , even our commander can not only command thousands of troops , but his martial arts is also superb. I also heard that your commander is a general who is capable of both literary and military skills. However, I have never had the opportunity to meet him. It is easy to handle . I will definitely bring some with him when I have the opportunity in the future. Come and pay homage to our commander. Haha, if we have the character of our commander , I might even be able to make plans with you to expand enrollment. Isn't that Xiao Wang? Hahaha, then thank you, Mr. Wang. Hey, you're welcome. You're welcome . Oh , brothers, what were you doing just now? There is something wrong with the way I, Wang Mufeng, spoke, so I hope you will forgive me for causing misunderstandings . Mr. Wang is serious , because we are too small, haha. We also know that we are small, hahaha. Mr. Wang has some words that I don't know whether to say or not. This is all We are brothers and friends. There is nothing we can't say. It would be rude to say that . Well, before you said that you wanted to be friends with us , it was your commander's intention. I didn't quite understand what I said. Well, then I will tell you our commander's intention. Let me convey this to you, our commander, who said that you usually work independently and lack a necessary connection. When you are helping to kill the Japanese, you are more random and impulsive , and you lack careful and long-term plans . If you continue like this, you will be let go. It will be very troublesome if the devils figure out your actions and patterns. Especially when the devils set a trap for one of you, that person will be very dangerous. Think about it , is this the case ? Come on, snipers . Brother, you are right . You are so upright and chivalrous that you will not save the innocent people and the anti-Japanese soldiers. So the Japanese are using this to put everyone to death. Just like Mr. Wang did today. I have advised you not to go . Of course, I know you will definitely go because If you don't go, you will lose your identity in your own eyes. Frankly speaking, this is also the weakness of each of you. Mr. Wang is quite Thoughtful , but it's not enough for me alone. We also need the support and cooperation of the guerrillas , as well as the support of the two sharpshooters Xiaotong and Xiaowang. Therefore, we can only support each other, cooperate with each other , and have a careful and long-term plan. Only then can we turn defeat into victory. This is indeed difficult for one person to do. So our commander sent me to make friends with you and gather everyone into a strong whole to form an iron fist to kill the Japanese. In addition, with the support and support of the Eighth Route Army and guerrillas, If you cooperate with me , will you be able to better protect yourself and kill the Japanese more effectively by saying this ? Well, I have said so much today. You can think about it when you go back and see if what I said is right or not . It is not necessary. It's right to tell you something today. We need to reflect on our past actions. We should reflect on it. Today, even if we know each other , we are brothers and friends. Yes, we are brothers. Mr. Wang , as long as you are useful in the future. If you find me, Du Dapeng, you can find someone to send me a message. I live in Kongjiazhuang. Kong Jinkai said that I, Du Dapeng, have never been afraid of doing things for my friends. Well, if you have anything to do, Mr. Wang, just say it and thank you for your kindness to me. Trust me , of course . I also have a merciless request. Brother, please tell me if you want to take action before you have a clear idea of the true nature of the Japanese. We can discuss it in advance. As the saying goes , three stooges can still stand up to each other. Zhuge Liang , since we are brothers and friends , then okay, okay, what's wrong with this, Mr. Wang, just do as you say, haha, Mr. Wang is also kind-hearted, okay , everyone has something to do. You can come to me at any time. If I am not here, someone will notify me immediately . Mr. Wang, I will take the first step. I still have to find Wu Jiaon , Mr. Liao. Our people are also looking for Miss Song , so don't worry too much. Thank you, Mr. Wang. You're welcome. I will notify you immediately if there is any news. Please, please , please , please , doctors. Please doctors , now the Japanese have seen clearly what each of us looks like, so from now on, we must be more careful. Mr. Wang, you must also be more careful. Thank you, farewell. Take care . Goodbye. Why