Before we get started, we wanted limited edition Merch for sale at the Merch store. Meet Alice and Bob, famous explorers of the Heroes of the gerdankenexperiment--the thought contradictions in the deepest layers of our Today our intrepid pair are jumping into a Again. Why? Well, to determine the fundamental structure entanglement of course. In recent and less recent episodes we've to weird ideas. Like the fact that there's a minimum meaningful of a volume of space fits on its boundary. We also saw a simplistic manner in which an be encoded on that boundary, leading to the We even saw one idea for how gravity boundary. In a couple of recent episodes we talked about in the scale of patterns on the boundary, that area think there's a better way to entanglement--the subtle correlations between the properties of particles. In fact, as we'll see in upcoming episodes, of space may be emergent from entanglement--that of mutual information of its contents. This idea of the role of entanglement came to the stuff that led to the minimal Planck In particular, in thinking about what happens This is ultimately going to lead us to a deep in the ER=EPR conjecture. And that same line of reasoning is going to quantum information exists, leading to black We'll get to these in upcoming episodes. But today we want to set up the contradiction And for that we need Alice and Bob to jump Well, just Alice actually. She always was a bit more adventurous than So, Alice and Bob head to Sagittarius A*, of the Milky Way. Alice suits up and prepares to jump. Bob prepares to watch from a safe distance. Alice carries a clock that emits pulses of so that Bob can track her position and also Alice also carries a box in which a single This is our qubit--our bit of quantum information. In this case the information is about whether The box also emits regular pulses of gamma Excited to be the first human to see below leaps head-first towards Sag A*, and as she to fall just ahead of her. Let's start with Bob's perspective. He watches Alice and box fall, training his flow of time. Those gamma ray photons arrive with increasing and at the same time the redshifted--stretched to longer wavelengths. Bob has also switched on detectors sensitive radio. He settles in, expecting to watch Alice slow to witness her seconds stretched to hours, That doesn't happen. Instead, he observes Alice fall quickly, speed with the black hole's event horizon. So what happened to the time dilation approaching Well it's true that for any black hole you with any ridiculously high time dilation you Like, a millisecond stretching to 100 trillion But the thing is, a free-falling observer time she reaches these points--she's approaching The time dilation increases but the amount Ultimately, the former wins and both Alice's only really really close to the event horizon. Bob sees the box slow and freeze first, which And Alice's head slows before her feet, so Bob had been worried about Alice might get spaghettified--elongated by tidal forces pulling on her head harder But that doesn't happen here because the this massive are only deep inside of the hole. Instead, by the time the top of Alice's entire body is also just above the event horizon. This effect doesn't have a term, but Bob At this point, Alice's photons are much and their wavelengths much longer. They're barely detectable even by Bob's And then Bob loses sight altogether. The last thing he sees is that all of Alice's scrambled over the entire event horizon. Now any light from Alice is indistinguishable may be equivalent to it. Hawking radiation is the faint glow that every black hole produces due to For Sag A* that temperature is 10^-14 Kelvin, of over 100 million kilometers. Bob's is desperate to not lose track of But the only way is to collect all future He begins the construction of a detector that of Dyson sphere. He also goes ahead and uploads his mind to this black hole, and he settles in for the In the meantime, let's look at what happened Plummeting towards Sag A* takes some hours, She rapidly accelerates and the latter part But there's no g-force from that acceleration Alice is in freefall towards an event horizon she's floating. This is a consequence of Einstein's equivalence in freefall, their local patch of spacetime of a gravitational field. Alice sees the black hole beneath her as a Oddly, that surface appears to move away from See, the "true" event horizon looks black gravitational redshift of photons struggling That redshift results from the full trajectory But Alice can still encounter photons that because she's deep in that gravitational Effectively, she's coming to them rather Also, as Alice approaches the event horizon, the outward-pointing photons that she passes She sees the record of objects that fell ahead Now comes the critical part of the experiment At some point the qubit box crosses the true no marker of that horizon in her reference Will she still see the box? Yes. But the box she sees is the box as it was She can only catch photons emitted by the box from below the horizon if She is first and foremost a scientist, so turns her mind back to the horizon. And nothing weird happens. Remember the equivalence principle. It tells us that there's no experiment you local patch of space that distinguishes whether This principle is the and physicists are very uncomfortable by anything that appears to violate it. Remember this because we may have to break also. But assuming the equivalence principle holds, horizon. Not the qubit, not herself. Nor does she catch up to the qubit. Now beneath the horizon, the qubit is still surface that also always appears below. But now that dark surface around behind her also. The outside universe is a shrinking fisheye closed, and all directions become an enveloping and time. Alice can't ever leave to tell Bob the result it's a huge success. She now knows with surety that black holes Let's go back to Bob. Remember he's now in the business of catching the experimental qubit. Though if we're being honest he's also The black hole radiates. It would lose mass this way if it were for background than it spews up. But after 100 billion years or so the universe temperature of the black hole, and finally it doesn't eat anything else. Bob is aware that the black hole will eventually He's also aware of the law of conservation information paradox from watching ancient He knows that quantum mechanics and perhaps Alice's information nor the experimental But there's a risk of that happening if the just like many long-dead 21st century physicists, hidden in the Hawking radiation. Many lifetimes of the universe pass and the Bob has had to build several brains--to store and analyze this data. No big deal really because Bob After the black hole has lost half of its all the stars have gone out and their stellar It's now just Bob and the black hole. Then Bob analyzes the next in the endless stream this time he detects the first sign of a faint The subtlest of correlation starts to emerge profoundly scrambled order in the randomness Newly excited by his Sisophean task, Bob continues Eventually he managed to recovers the object of the experiment--quantum that black holes do NOT And just before the black hole evaporates were once Alice, revealing the true source He brings to bear the full might of the enormous black-hole-powered Matryoska all of Alice's qubits to reconstructs her live happily ever after, digital ghosts in How sweet. This might seem like a happy ending, and it on the event horizon, but not necessarily Let's get back to our experiment. What really happened to the qubit? Bob saw it freeze on the horizon, and then radiation. But Alice saw it fall through the horizon and she did the same. In physics, we often make progress by identifying This is perhaps the primary So it seems we've identified a contradiction. Two different observers end up with irreconcilably is the qubit". There's a reason we used a qubit instead That's because the qubit allows us to break so it sharpens our contradiction. I already talked about the prohibition against Bob concluded that the qubit had to be preserved But there's another related rule--the no-cloning duplicated. If the bit escapes in Hawking radiation, how The problem with deleting or duplicating quantum the most fundamental tenet of quantum mechanics--as is to general relativity--and that's unitarity. The quantum wavefunction describes probabilities. Probabilities have to add up to one. Add up all the probabilities of an object's to more than 100%--because what would that Deleting or duplicating a qubit breaks unitarity, But it seems we have to either break unitarity or by deleting it as the black hole evaporates. OR we have to break the equivalence principle past the event horizon. To find out which is the case, you're going Remember, Bob waited 10^87 years--a week Then we'll start to see some of the possible complementarity to idea of the firewall at And we'll continue to sharpen the tools very fabric of spacetime. Hey Everybody. Before we go we wanted to let you up at the Merch store. First up is our first ever pin on 2x3 inch holo foil backing card designed edition pre-sale with the pins shipping during from the pre-sale, that's it. Next up is our Star Designed by our very star wars nerdy director, the force. This limited edition design will be just head over pbsspacetime.com/shop