In my last video, I took a look at a document Tao could do when he was seven years old. But there was one page I didn't show you. And that's this one, a list of some of the These books are from a longer list of 22, eight. It says that he liked to read entire books, read next. It also says that he had a remarkable memory Terence is now a professor of math at UCLA. And he's 46. So some of these books are fairly old. But I managed to find some of them at the I've got Flatland by Edwin Abbott. I've got The Elements of Logic by S Barker. And I've got Calculus Pure and Applied by And I thought, just out of curiosity, I'd Before I get stuck into them, I will say these The textbooks are university level. And the idea that an eight year old would me. But it's true that most of us weren't given never really know if we could have read them. Of course, young Terence was lucky that his I believe that genius is not just a function But that shouldn't take away from how impressive To have the concentration and discipline to Even with the incentive of filming this video, than I have reading these books over the past And for that I do look up to the enthusiasm Flatland is the only one of the books that And unlike the others, which are textbooks, It's a story about shapes, which I love. I think it's clever, insightful, and it made had before. But honestly, I didn't love everything about There are some parts that I found hard to gender and class that just doesn't land well The story is set on a two dimensional plane. And the narrator, a self described gentleman, Shapes with more sides are higher in class. Hexagons are noble, and something with more order. Lower class workman such as Square's Butler Woman are a single straight line. There's his wife right there. Square's house is a Pentagon but this top To him all things look like lines of varying But he can feel the vertices and determine Square visits Lineland, which is only one to the inhabitants that there is a second But when Square is visited in Flatland by it hard to accept because he can't imagine Square wonders if this is true, then what is a fourth dimension. Sphere says &quot;no, that's ridiculous&quot;. But really, they're having the same problem above their own. Overall, it's a worthwhile mind bender. And it shows that even a book about math can't it was written. Moving on to Calculus. This is what seems like a fairly standard The first line of it is 'any situation involving in the language of calculus.' It starts with the idea of a gradient then a curve, and integration. And we've got circular functions, motion terms series and exponentials and logarithms. There's also differential equations, hyperbolic Some of the stuff I met at the end of high forgotten. I've slept on my integration so long I can So this book would do me well as a refresher, can see, it doesn't always explain too much It gives revision questions after every few Someone who checked this out in the past, it was published, has made a lot of annotations I find these comforting. Amongst all the seriousness of the math is It's a reminder as I tried to decipher each here. They even left a little To Do List: 'Saturday This book would have just been published when it. It is my opinion that when it comes to introductory the same sort of stuff. So if your goal is to learn calculus, then one that you have access to. Or it might be worth checking out a few sample explanations you prefer. On young Terence's reading list, there is and Linear programming, Readings in mathematics, Fractions by Olds at age nine. Also on the list is the International Mathematics And this is interesting because Terence would this Olympiad. At age 10. He won a bronze, silver and then a gold medal of each of these categories. And his two brothers, Nigel and Trevor have This next one is The Elements of Logic, and It goes through an introduction to logic as to understand truth functions, translating to philosophy. It says that logic can be intellectually rewarding But it is also practical in helping us to mistakes and reasoning. And a person who can recognise and avoid these to think more clearly and correctly and more they're thinking about. If you are wondering what logic has to do questions of philosophy. Like what is the difference between good and Is it possible to have knowledge? And can we ever prove that a thing is beautiful? Well, logic also deals with very general questions, between correct and incorrect steps in thinking. And in both philosophy and logic, no experiments Before we can consider what is good and bad itself is. And it says here that reasoning is starting be true, then in thinking, moving on to a So what we're doing is making an inference, a proof. What we start with are called premises. And what we reach at the end is the conclusion. And the book goes on to explore all the different We start to see some symbols here with truth This line means NOT. And the symbol v means OR, so for example, then p AND q has to be true, but NOT (p AND NOT p is false, NOT q is false, NOT p AND false. And from there, we work up to the elementary Each line here represents a step of logic This first bit is read, if p then q. So if p is true, therefore q is true. Kind of like when we're doing algebra, we We can do that here with logical expressions. These are a list of statements that are equivalent So we can put it all together in an example three premises, we then make a series of logical This book was written in 1965 and there is but is now central to modern computing. And that is logic gates. This part of the video is sponsored by Brilliant logic gates to see how they work. We see the symbols for AND, OR, and NOT, and like. AND outputs a one if both inputs are one, one, NOT can take a one to a zero, or a zero To combine these into a circuit means we can The circuit here represents A AND NOT B, or We're asked what the output of the circuit This first gate will output a one since both with a zero as input into the second AND, requires that both inputs are one for the Circuits, like logical expressions, can be For example, these two circuits are equivalent And this is especially important for circuits as small as possible. Combining logic gates, we can perform all the addition of numbers. If you would like to continue this course And that link will be down in the description Thank you to my Patreon supporters for making And a special shout out to today's Patron Thanks for watching.