(bright jingle) - [Falcon] When we say game consoles, you think PlayStation 5, stuff that's successful But there's way more There's your total and there's the ones that don't work. Hi folks, it's Falcon, the top 30 worst gaming We're gonna start this off the PlayStation 3 controller Look at this stupid thing. It's a PlayStation 3 controller mold with a tiny screen on top. They took out the sticks, 'Cause you know, great, You couldn't have put the Like, I don't know, maybe where the back buttons were But don't you worry, to make up for it, they added two new buttons in They advertised that preloaded in it, which is pretty pathetic compared to the seven billion in these cheapo Ali But hey, at least the price is right, just $1.78 at time of writing. I've seen these things sell So hey, it may be a pile of garbage, but it's not gonna set I love that it advertises it has a direct connection to but doesn't have an HDMI and it doesn't even have stereo sound. I guess it's not lying, you can connect it to which some of them have RCA inputs. So not necessarily your but a high definition TV. Sure, the console only outputs in SD, but you can connect it to some HD TVs. Eh, cool! And number 29 is the Ouya, the little indie console that couldn't. The Ouya was a third party that was meant to save that companies like had over the gaming industry. It was a console for the people, a new kind of video game console. And the rose was still in bloom for Kickstarter projects at the time, so the money came a-rolling in, more than nine times the People wanted this thing. But after years of broken the final result was really underwhelming. The thing was primarily meant for more casual who actually got any use out of it were the hardcore enthusiasts who turned it into a And even then it wasn't great. The controller was cheap Even for a cheap little console, this thing was extremely underpowered for what it was meant to do. And by the time it actually came out, actual emulation boxes using cell phone CPUs, which were way more powerful So the only real value it had to be free to play, or at least some of the Essentially, it meant every So that's actually not a The problem with it is an internet connection to play. Every single game was like that. Which as you know, with a good internet But the wireless hardware in and obviously the servers are down now, so every game on the system So much for freeing the games. And number 28 is the Apple Bandai Pippin, Apple's first and so far of video game consoles. Came out back in 1996, costing $599 US, double that of the Sony PlayStation which released a year earlier. For that price, this thing better have some impressive graphics Well, no, it didn't even have a dedicated graphics processor. All the games made for and look significantly worse So what did the Pippin have? Well, it had a hideous that was wireless, which And also you could install Mac OS 7 on it. So it was sort of a hybrid PC-console with all the negatives of both If you actually did install the OS, it would take up most of and games would run even worse. The few exclusives the system got were completely pointless too. They could just work on a standard Mac, so there was almost no reason to get them. It ended up being the of the fifth generation, 'cause there were some pretty The failure of the console The driving force behind the They were the ones that and marketed it, so they when it inevitably flopped, pretending the whole thing never happened. And number 27 is the Nintendo Virtual Boy, probably Nintendo's The Virtual Boy was meant to the success of the Game Boy. So instead of taking the making a few improvements Nintendo decided to make this abomination that is only technically portable. I mean, you really can only It has a terrible and most importantly, it using it for more than five minutes. The display it put out with a mixed parallax effect. And that was virtual reality, I guess. I mean, on some level but not the way that they used it because it just didn't work. It'd be cool as a theme on but not as this. I will say there were one or The Wario game on the But man, everything else about it is just so horribly misjudged. Nintendo is usually on but this one sucks. Like it's got this cable that comes out of the top in a weird way. It's got this big block of a battery that can easily fall out with It's nonsense. Wearing this thing was awkward. It was really heavy, so And if you use the included stand, then you'd awkwardly have to to see anything. This thing was such a piece of crap that not even the Nintendo brand It sold less than a million units and was discontinued in less than a year. And number 26 is the Game Gear Micro, otherwise known as that because you're straining The console, the Game Gear Micro, was an absurd Japan-only series of tiny versions of the Game Gear. And when I say tiny, I They're less than four centimeters tall. The screen is half that. And they're I guess probably about as tiny as you could make a handheld game console and still have it be You would have to be a madman I mean, look at how tiny the screen is. I hope you have a microscope handy or don't mind holding it directly in front of one of your eyeballs. Seriously, you have to have to have a chance of seeing any of this, especially if you're these things inexplicably The funny thing is it's or anything, it's a funny little novelty, but actually trying to use is all but impossible. And it make matters worse, so that each version only They could have easily packed onto one of these things. But no, you get four. I guess it doesn't really matter, I mean four games, 400 games, not really a big difference on a device that you're really only But they could have made it literally a couple of centimeters larger and made it so you could play it on more than like a technical basis. And number 25 is the Phillips CDI. Released back in 1991, this console was meant and ended up being nothing. It was gonna be a home a CD player, a video game console, and it was gonna be all that in one thing, in one big crappy package. Named after the disc that was meant to rival the system is mostly known its embarrassing FMV games and the laughably bad which were made as part of the deal that Nintendo made with Phillips, mostly done to spite Sony. For a 1991 console, this thing could do It could even connect to the But the PC side of the console And the gaming part, well, you know what the You're looking at it. It was just embarrassing most of the time. Not every game on the but there was more junk than not. There really was a lot of and just bottom of the barrel trash. It cost $700 at launch Translated in today's money, it's more than double, it's $1,600. What did you get? Well, to paraphrase Bill Gates, it was a terrible game When you're right, you're right. And that billionaire dork was right. And number 24 is the Zeebo. Bad name right off. Released exclusively in Brazil in 2009, this console was meant to with a less expensive gaming option. You know, compared to imported first party consoles that only the rich could afford. It was a noble idea, but the whole thing ended up being a flop. It was outdated before it even came out. The controller was bad. And the games were mostly or shovelware slop. Even though it was designed as a cheaper alternative console, for a lot of Brazilian families. So it sold poorly right from the start. And even with the price this thing never ended About 40 games came out for like Resident Evil IV's phone version, which by the way plays And that's bad, but Ridge Racer was worse. It didn't just play poorly, it could, no joke, According to a comment by rafamottaa, the game would leak data into the memory which would fill up breaking the entire Zeebo OS. You generally hear of game-breaking bugs, not console-breaking bugs. Like I can't remember any other console besides the Xbox 360, that could just be bricked. And the Xbox 360 was from overheating. This is just software And number 23 is the Nokia N-Gage. You know that this is quite when number 23 is the N-Gage. Colloquially known as the Taco, you know, because the awkward and the microphone made it look like you were talking into a taco, this thing was a handheld all wrapped up into one. A phone that can play games, What? Obviously this thing came out in 2003. And although like, some phones could play some very rudimentary games at that point, the Nokia Taco was in a lot of ways actually way ahead of its time. It had Bluetooth, you it had MP3 playback. It could do pretty much everything could possibly do while also being a It's a good idea, but the Look at it, the face buttons And it's awkward for most The screen was weirdly And if you actually you had to remove the battery. Yeah, the game card slot similar to how most But instead of swapping out you were basically swapping Like you put one in and it stayed there until you took the battery out. It made zero sense for a handheld console. Nokia had no clue what they were doing. It sucked as a handheld and It did actually have a pretty Not vital to play or anything. I would go with an emulator rather than digging up But it shows off that it actually did a pretty shockingly enough. Just everything else about it was wrong. It's not even that it didn't And number 22 is the a Kickstarter failure that and the Intellivision Amico seem carefully planned and Getting into the nitty gritty of this particular so let's just talk about All it was supposed to of the previously released mini console, ZX Spectrum Revival. The thing that drew heavy but backers hoped these and put out a quality product this time. There's actually a pretty big fan base for Sinclair Microcomputers in the UK. It's a nostalgic brand So the promise of a high quality handheld that was preloaded with was something a lot of people wanted. However, the final product After struggling for years to stay afloat and weathering many self-made disasters, they finally managed to release even if it was way lower than of about 400 units. The handhelds that people did They were flimsy and and had no charging cable. A lot of the release handhelds people got were straight up broken with Even the boxes they came in were slapdash. Instead of proper packages, a lot of them came loose in boxes with nothing protecting them other than some crumpled up paper. Oh yeah, and those 1,000 games? They got cut down to just 14 when they lost the license The entire thing was one big shit show. And the only reason they even released it was because I think it would've And number 21 is the Anyone remember those AtGames consoles you used to see all over the place? People let the crap quality back when nobody really cared But when the NES Classic came People wanted more mini consoles, and they wanted ones that were well made, but we didn't get that with Instead, we got a borderline that barely ran the games The wireless controllers it came with used infrared rather than Bluetooth, which was ubiquitous by the And infrared is terrible. And a lot of the 80 included games weren't even actual Genesis games, they were knockoffs produced by AtGames. I often see people knock this thing, but I bought one when it came out. I didn't know what and it seemed like this to, you know, play it. But I booted up Sonic the Hedgehog and was introduced with off-key music. Yes, lots of the on this console play the music out of Key. It's a real piece of junk. Also, it only supported and didn't really look It was vaguely reminiscent of that they went with later But the point of the mini nostalgia, right? It should probably look like a Genesis. After this thing failed, and switched over to M2 to which was way better received. Moving on to number 20, I know almost nothing about this thing. There's very little outside of a short blurb but that's all the information I need to put it on this list. This bootleg Korean and a unique feature, an alarm clock that goes off every 30 minutes of play. Doesn't that sound like fun? You're playing your game and suddenly the console starts beeping. (Falcon imitating alarm clock) Happens every 30 minutes on the dot when you turn this thing on. I guess it was done because was going on in 1993, not related to that episode of Pokemon that triggered epilepsy in That was another thing at I don't really know anything but it's so much in Like in the intro of this video, I kind of nebulously said bad. This was what I was alluding to. It's not a failure and at least from what we know. But an alarm that goes like I don't know, to track sounds like fricking torture. I feel like every single it would just piss me off. I would die a little inside Like it's bad enough when to take a break after like an hour. Imagine that, but every 30 minutes and instead of a little text box, you get the alarm clock sound. And number 19 is the Zone 3D. This 2011 bootleg console It has two controllers And last, but certainly not least, it has two anaglyph 3D glasses. Yes, it's a 3D console and it all of which use pre-rendered graphics. If you don't know anaglyph real crappy kind of 3D, the kind where you have the It looks terrible. It kind of hurts your eyes to look at. And even when it kind of I'll say this, at least the 3D glasses with this console were plastic. They're better than the paper ones they used to give out all Which, lord, that's gonna have in terms of age. So if you ever wanted to play a bunch of cheap knockoff garbage that give you a headache, There are 80 other non-3D but they're all junk too. It's all junk. You'd be better flushing down the toilet. At least looking at that And number 18 is Tiger Game.com. It's the N-Gage but worse. It tried to be some kind of hybrid between a Game Boy and a PDA. It was absolutely terrible at both of those functions, though. What makes this thing so bad other than the stupid name is the screen. It's ungodly, it's poorly And when it's ghosting, the image, it's smeared to hell and back. They managed to get some like Resident Evil 2 and Duke Nukem 3D. But the games can't be played. They're just a blurry mess of gray pixels. This thing seriously has some of the worst graphics I've ever seen. Like, it's abysmal how bad this screen is. There's only about 20 games and it's 20 games too many, What developer in their and go, &quot;Yep, that's the platform for me. I'm gonna spend years of my And the games are total garbage. But hey, at least you can Yeah, well, if you don't There's no wifi. And you can only view that's what everybody Like, who asked for this? If you ever wanted to to suffer from glaucoma or maybe something worse than get the Game.com, 'cause man, it's that. At number 17 is the No, I am not talking about the I'm talking about the Games System, the ill-fated console version and managed to sell a Yes, 2,000. Not 200,000, not 20,000, 2,000. The Commodore 64 was a was hugely popular as an affordable PC. But Commodore wanted to so they put this thing out. It looked like the standard Commodore, but instead of a It's a keyboard with no keys, 'cause the game they packed And well, let's just say you to properly play it. I don't even know how but it illustrates the fundamental It's just a Commodore 64 that can't play the vast majority of the It's fundamentally a Commodore except for it's designed without the apparatus, the keyboard, necessary to play most of the It wasn't even a lot It was only $50 less than so really it had no reason to exist. At number 16 is Battman. It's a Nintendo 64 box two PlayStation 1 and art stolen from the You know, the one that to have killed the Batman franchise until they tried again like more than a decade Oh, and also it's a famiclone, meaning that it is a inside the old original Xbox exterior that has different colors and and the light guns. I mean, the light guns Sorry, if it's got NES games, But beyond the fact that for Duck Hunt, I assume, It raises so many questions that'll never be properly answered. There's no point in It's Battman. Seriously, look at this box. I have no idea why this is the box. At number 15 is PX-3600. Is it an Xbox 360? Is it an Xbox original? Is it a PlayStation? Kind of, who knows? It's the PX-3600, a bootleg boasting no less than 3,600 games. And that is a lot of games. Oh sorry, no, there's 36 games. Each game just repeats 100 times each. Well, at least the controllers rumble or one of the controllers has rumble. Here's a positive for you, So you get two channel You can't trust anything even the game names. Street Fighter is actually Super C, Teletubbies is actually Mario Brothers, somehow Duck Hunt is split into two games. It's a big old mess. There are so many bootleg consoles practically identical to this thing, but its ridiculous name and bizarre design make it noteworthy enough At number 14 is the Power Okay, one more bootleg console, but I will say there's a It was everywhere, a staple of swapmeets and If you got a bootleg console of some kind, it was probably one of this I gotta bask in the glory of Nintendo 64 controller, Six button Genesis controller. And the gun packed in. Star Wars in the middle too. The text that says, &quot;The What? Typo aside, it's not the It's magic, pure magic. The stick on the Nintendo 64 It's completely non-functional. Like the 3600, it's got 100 so the actual number of games And to top everything off, and the soft plastic actually That's right, a mediocre 3D print is more durable than this thing. At number 13 is the Game Wave While it's maybe not the it takes its top spot as the Made by ZAPiT games and released in 2005, this thing only ever had And they're boring, family trivia type games not good ones. And let's be honest, this thing's barely, It's more of a DVD player and four controllers, which are just remotes If you had really strict you might have had this thing because it seems like it found any success in. Imagine it's 2005, you want an Xbox and you see what can only under the tree. You stay up all night you're gonna play on your brand new state of the art Xbox 360, only to wake up in the Santa didn't get you an He had got you the Game Wave with the Veggie Tales Veg which is, by the way, from what I can tell some kind of ironically unholy and DVD menus. Seriously, that's the best I can describe the gameplay I looked up. And number 12 is the 3DO or the 3DO for short. This 1993 console was in some ways a leap could render textured 3D graphics natively a year before PlayStation But the price tag killed before it had a chance to which is better than $700 in 1991. Not a lot though, you know, You know, the CDI and the about luxury products. Like, is the point of buying them to be able to say you in 1993 or '1? 'Cause it's not the games, like having those games is not the point. Those suck. But anyway, the 3DO only The only game that was ready in time for this thing to come It just wasn't ready for prime time. It struggled to get any traction, and the only games getting made for it were mostly ports of PC and arcade games and a whole lot of FMV garbage like the truly embarrassing The system did eventually even if pretty much all of but it never justified and the PlayStation 1 ate its lunch when it came out in 1995. And number 11 is the Advanced Game Player. It's a Nintendo DS with and a directional pad that looks like it came A very cheap pile of off-white plastic with only eight games on it. But for some reason if you had to put a card so you couldn't just play No, there wasn't anything All of the games were You just couldn't play a specific card, at Sometimes a different just randomly. Didn't matter which card you put in. There's four face buttons. Only one of 'em actually did anything. I guess the rest were just there for show. And to make this thing even more baffling, the face buttons and the directional pad would switch mapping randomly So it was essentially unplayable. I'm used to these bootleg but this was way beyond the usual jank. It's truly impressive how broken and worthless the Advanced Game Player is. And number 10 is the RDI Halcyon. One of the rarest consoles ever made, it's also easily one of the worst, at least from a consumer perspective. Not much is actually known I'm not even sure if it was ever officially released and it's in the hands of so it must have proliferated somehow. Just look at some of the It's a beast. Released allegedly back in 1985, this thing was basically a daisy chained together. Its central gimmick was that it had voice recognition software so the player could talk to the system, which was probably pretty But you know how inconsistent now in 2024, as anytime it changes the word she to you, which are not even vaguely similar words. Eh, that's now. We're talking about something that used voice commands back in 1985. Everything about this system was clunky, and that definitely includes the games, which had both a cartridge The cartridge contained the game data and the laser disc was the video. And yeah, only two games and they were already arcade games. I mean, at least this thing gave you one other way to interact with the machine other than using voice. You could also use this really crappy So you get a giant, all for the low, low price Yeah, seriously. Factoring in inflation, that's over $7,000 of today's for a video game console with two games and no proper controller. At number nine is the Wireless Air 60. This is the bootleg console when they want you to suffer or just, you know, don't know anything. You know how bad and Well, get ready for the Wireless that exclusively decided it There was no controller, You have to power it It doesn't actually do It's probably got some motion tracking stuff that's But that doesn't make Games just apparently There's a game called &quot;Crash Zone&quot; that just crashes the system. Guess I should have seen At number eight is the Mattel HyperScan. Released in 2016, Mattel tried to combine collectible Every one of the phone game-quality discs made for this thing were But along with the game, that were used to power up their games. I would call it the originator but horse armor came out a few so they were behind the One way they were definitely was pricing, which was ridiculous. Take the Ben 10 game, for example. The base game was $20. If you wanna get all the cards, that was 13 booster packs, $10 a pop. So for the kids who a $20 game suddenly cost mom And the games aren't even good. Like look at these. All the things released for Everything looks like a cheap bootleg, but it was an official And number seven is the Atari Jaguar CD. The original Atari Jaguar but not a lot. Jaguar CD, though, no Released in 1995, this thing only saw 13 games released for it compared to the standard Jaguar's 50. And most of the games released were stuff like &quot;Dragon's Lair&quot; which got released on other systems. One of the Jaguar CD's only exclusives was &quot;Highlander, the which is a terrible based on the &quot;Highlander&quot; cartoon that no one on earth remembers. Seriously, if you say you're lying. I don't. I believe somebody over them watching the cartoon. It did not happen. Along with the limited library, it was also prone to hardware failure. And trying to get the CD is pretty difficult. CD drives tend to be spotty, but this thing was much more shoddily made than your average one. Sometimes the connection between the system and the CD fails, sometimes the drive fails, There's no guessing what will But there's a good chance However, it would be a much bigger issue if there's anything worth And number six is the Nuon. This mostly forgotten console came out back in the year 2000. Cue Conan O'Brien bit. It had the goal of being They pretty much copied 3DO's only without the whole had to work with all So this thing somehow ended than the 3DO. It looks like a DVD player 'cause that's what it primarily was. It had special features to Only four movies ever actually used them. And there were only eight Most of them were old or were only available or were literally just like &quot;Iron Soldier 3&quot;, which had to be recalled because of that. It's amazing that Logitech as long as they did with I mean, look at this stupid looking thing that came packed with the Nuon. It's just a standard But seriously, that's you force your friend to use when you're playing &quot;WWF No Mercy&quot;. Yeah, it's another in a long line of crappy But you'd think by 2000, somebody would've had a sanity check and canceled this pointless thing before it ever got on store shelves because of course it failed. And number five is Amiga CD32. Commodore's final attempt to was somehow even worse than the previous, and that's saying something. Designed to break into the during the company's dying days, they got hit with a patent infringement fine which forbade them from releasing products in the United States until they paid up. They didn't have the money, of course, so they didn't release in the US even though they already manufactured them so they were stuck with they mostly couldn't sell. This thing only lasted before getting discontinued. And that's where Commodore's If the console was some it would be a sad end, but it's not. It's got all the same issues their previous attempts at a console had but with even more unforced errors. Once again, it's essentially that doesn't really offer anything new for most of its library. Most of the games can be played elsewhere and there's a whole lot of like &quot;Kang Fu&quot; and the incredibly bad which has to be seen to be believed. I'm not joking here, Tetsuo Giant teddy bears! And number four is the Tiger Gizmondo. This awkward little novelty is honestly a lot less interesting than behind its creation. But make no mistake, that The form factor alone killed the handheld. It's just too small and awkward to use as an actual game system. The top buttons are weird The directional pad is spongy. Nothing feels good about using it. Only 14 games ever came out for it. They were all launch titles, nothing else was ever made for it. It only managed to sell and was an all-around failure. The screen at least was all right and the games looked but the whole thing ended up Well, okay, it was ahead There were two models, an or a $229 model that would show you Yes, it would cut to ads while back in 2005. Maybe phone games were I don't know, but either The Gizmondo sucked. But the real interesting story has to do with the sleazeball a Swedish game developer and former mob affiliate, Stefan Eriksson. The story of what this guy got up to before and around the is pretty nuts. And he ended up getting arrested and pleading guilty for and one count of illegal gun possession, spending three years in US jail, which then he was deported to Sweden where he faced even more charges including aggravated Wild stuff. And number three, the Action Max. This 1987 console really of what counts as a video game. It's a light gun game console If you wanna play the games, Because seriously, all are just tapes. So it's not really a light gun game. Nothing on the screen actually You might as well be doing finger guns on your computer screen 'cause that's only than what the Action Max offers. It had five VHS tapes released because what's the point? I guess you get a score, but it doesn't even show up on the screen. It appears on the TV mounted score signal. So seriously, all you're That's the game. And number two is the LJN Video Art. It's a console with one game, that doesn't even have a tablet interface. You have to use joystick to draw. And oof, that is not good. It only had 16 colors. And putting in a cartridge into the slot made the picture appear using some of the worst That's it. It is a basic and ugly paint Yes, 16 colors. The pre-programmed images I'm pretty sure a child could draw something better than this. As a digital art program, not fun to use, serves no function. And finally, at number And I've already made an but it's been long Guys, step into the R-Zone. If you grew up in the '90s, then you remember all those and being able to say the R-word. The Tiger Electronics games, They were basically unplayable inexplicable rules and But they were everywhere. All the kids had them Now imagine one of those things combined with the Virtual Boy and you have the worst Look at it, it's literally but red and projected on a piece of glass in front of your eye. There's no actual graphics on it, it's all just a single image and certain parts light up to give the impression Nobody's falling for it, though. It's usually just a mess of black blobs twitching about the screen. Now imagine that, only it's red projected on some clear plastic. And you can only see it, see it might be a bit but you can only see it with one eye. In a technical sense, it's There's no video signals generated here. But what the hell, so that's good enough for me. Tiger Electronics handholds as video games can get, and the R-Zone somehow found That's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see 'em first so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon, you can follow me We'll see you next time