Caption: In the episode. The enemy is changing tactics and approaches. Accordingly, we have to change as well. And it's even better when we change our approaches before the enemy does. Then we have an advantage. In fact, it was a small mistake, but everyone was working out. I've never done 120 push-ups in my life. The injury to your right leg! Eleven, why aren't you working, warrior? If a warrior is undisciplined, he is not really a warrior. No matter how hard it is, even if it is physically hard, you have to... Caption: This is my rifle If you leave a weapon somewhere, you get a bad name. And in front of everyone. Then you have to carry a log with you. Recruit. Air! Drop to the ground! Move! Faster! You're bleeding to death! Episode 2. Power My call sign is &quot;Oster&quot;. I am the commander of a group of instructors. My main mission is, to a certain extent, to control the instructors. I also run the firearms training course. As for firearms training, as for tactics, engineering training -- I pass on my personal experience and the experience of my brothers-in-arms. But as the war is quite dynamic, it does not stand still, so the enemy changes tactics and approaches. Accordingly, we have to change as well. And it is even better when we change our approaches ahead of the enemy. Then we have an advantage. My weapon... For me, it's a companion for the next few years of my life, my friend. During these three weeks, I became much more resilient and learnt that you have to do some things on enthusiasm, silently, on an idea. No matter how hard it is, no matter how hard it is physically, you have to... &quot;Kalash&quot; is a very crude weapon. Sometimes it takes a little bit of physical effort to put it together. When you look at this weapon, you immediately understand who the people were who designed it. And of course, it is easier to hit targets with an assault rifle than with a &quot;Kalash&quot;. If you learn to hit targets well with a &quot;Kalash&quot;, then it will be easier for you with an assault rifle. I am very tired. I'm just moving on moral and willpower to the end. There is not much time left. You just realize that you have already traveled too far to give up. You just mechanically do what you have to do. So you go ahead and don't give up, even though you have no desire to do anything. It's worth it. Start. The days have been interesting. Finally, in the second week, we are getting a lot of information about weapons. The most interesting things have just begun. We already feel that we are starting to become something like soldiers. So, that`s it. I'm number 26, I'm from Kyiv. In my civilian life, I was a film director. I understand that there is a job that is difficult, perhaps unpleasant, but which must be done by someone. And I decided for myself that I am also suitable to do this possibly uncomfortable, unpleasant, dangerous work. So here I am. Well, in the basic training course, weapons look more like a punishment. You watch the film &quot;Full Metal Jacket&quot; and it seems like your weapon is your girlfriend. You sleep with it, you adore it, you have a name for it... But here it is: you left your weapon somewhere and you get a bad name. And in front of everyone. And then you carry the log with you. There. &quot;This is my rifle&quot; We were woken up by an alarm. I didn't get my bearings, I didn't take my armor and helmet. And because of this, I have to walk around with them for some time: to eat and to go to classes with them. And thanks to the very good imagination of our instructors, I now have two helmets on my head. You're not shooting now. You will shoot with everyone else who will shoot at 50 metres. Okay. Do you understand? Yes, instructor. Okay? Yeah, okay. What's the number? Thirteen. Thirteen. That's hard not to remember. Discipline here is the key to discipline in the combat zone. Every soldier must understand that it is necessary to obey orders and commands of commanders. And if we do not follow the orders of our commanders, we are not a military structure, which means we will be a weak unit. This cannot be allowed. Therefore, discipline is the basis of a soldier's psychological qualities. But still, in order to teach discipline to recruits, it is necessary, first of all, for every instructor and commander to be self-disciplined and to show this discipline by example. Caption: The combat experience of instructors is the basis of authority and respect. The instructor's experience becomes the foundation of trust and confidence in his ability to teach. We control the sectors! Do not forget! Sectors, guys. Control the sectors. We train to walk in a wedge, a checkerboard, a line. Sometimes we have to run out into the woods and fall down because drones are flying. Otherwise, it's just like always. Contact on 9! On 9! Line! Alpha, attack! Bravo -- cover! The first day we took up arms, it was great. I felt like some kind of warrior. Like a cool guy. It`s the 74th &quot;Kalash&quot;. The &quot;Kalash&quot; is covered in sand. I'm going to rewrap it with tape, because the number comes off. It's just an ordinary weapon, like any other. There is something wrong with my sight. I have not been hitting the target during the last shooting. I don't know why. Now we will go to clean the weapon. It's a day off. It's a bad day off for us. We need to clean it. And now I'm really annoyed with these weapons. Anyway, you put it on the floor, and it should be on the floor, not on the sand, but in your hands. And when you jump or do push-ups many times, it is covered in sand. And since I cleaned it yesterday and it's in the sand again, it needs to be cleaned again. Well, it's cool. It's cool in general. I mean, everyone shows who they really are. Today we will have tactical training. The main material is to teach the fighters to form a formation, combat orders and learn how to respond to enemy contacts, as well as how to storm and, in case of danger, how to retreat. The enemy outnumbers you in firepower! You need to retreat! Alpha - cover! Bravo - retreat! The guys are quite motivated. They know why they came here, they know their goal. They know what they are going to fight for. This is the most important thing. Speaking of values. You start thinking more about what is most important in life. Under stressful conditions, yes. That's when people think most about what is important to them. Because food, comfort and other things are not the most important things in life. These are trivial things. Just recently, I saw my daughter for the first time in my life. She was born when I was in Vysokopillya, Kherson region, that year, also on duty. She was born in another country. Now they live at my home in Mykolaiv. I would just like to see my child grow up. How she smiles, how she enjoys simple things. I would rather say that I have no choice. Even if I wanted to, I wouldn't be able to just up and leave. Of course, as a person who wants to feel free, I would like to just up and leave everything and go. But it doesn't work that way in this world. First of all, yes, there is an enemy, there are many other problems. And they don't just let you be free. We all don't know what awaits us, how things will go, what will happen next. Only God knows, I think. We'll see. The landing party is on the ground! The recruitment, I would say, is young. Every age has its pros and cons. On the one hand, I would like people to be older, because now these young guys have, let's say, fire in their eyes. But still, people over 25 are more psychologically stable. That's why you can still feel a little bit of young maximalism in them. But in fact, war is a thing that very quickly turns young people into experienced adult warriors. Motivation! Azov! Caption: In the next episode We teach that we are one family. We stick together. Therefore, everyone's contribution to the family should be maximized. There was some bad mood, there was apathy, but you still go to the end, you still don't give up, you remember why you are here. The course was difficult. Every day was the hardest. The minimum is to understand why you are here and what you are willing to do. his is already 50 percent of your victory.