Spoiler Warning For All Runs of Deltarune If you haven't experienced those yet, do that Phew, with a 19 minute video and a patreon, Now I can focus on moving and maybe by the And can resume video productio- wha? No way. Already? You actually did it. You actually made me a [big shot]. Thank you guys so much! Seriously I am just, blown away by how fast this is all happening, I never imagined I'd be getting this much support so quickly like this. I was kinda hoping to have something big to golly this is all happening so fast. Like I can't.. I can't even...what? What is this? What's happening? Whats- What? &quot;Your videos look mass-produced or Channels with mindless content without commentary or narrative... templated or auto-generated content from content farms...&quot; Are you serious right now? My videos can't be monetized... because they What! The! [Fifty Percent Off?] I'm trying to sell my [Heart-Shaped Object] to a multibillion dollar corporation and they won't even pay me in [peanuts?]. You ever have a soulless corporation refuse you don't qualify as a person? So what now? My script is finished and recorded, and I was so excited to share it with you all, but if I make it... I'm just giving them more money and power. And besides, it's more Deltarune content, so it'll just make my channel look &quot;mass produced&quot; if I use Deltarune footage. Maybe I should make a video about something else? No! There's no time, I'm moving and I have to submit my appeal video! I can't do both! Maybe I need to start a hashtag trend, like #GiveMeMyPeanuts? No, that won't work I'm not big enough to pull something like that off, I don't even use Twitter. This isn't about me wanting money. This is about making a profit for a system that does this to people, like I can't in good consciousness support this. I don't... I don't see a way around this... I should just give up... No... listen I know it's cliche, but this isn't me doing a bit. This is a problem I have in real life, I work for SOULess corporations, I give it my all, I put everything I have into my work, and yet always, always my disabilities get in the way and I get fired, Or forced to quit for reasons out of my control. I can't NOT have medical problems, all I CAN do is keep finding work arounds, and trying my hardest. Over the years it has cultivated this mindset, that won't LET me give up, I'll think I've given up, and lay down on the floor feeling I just keep thinking of different, or alternative ways to approach the problem, Like I can't just let it DIE. Maybe I'm just very susceptible to sunk cost fallacy, maybe it's not healthy, but deep down in my soul, there really is a burning feeling that won't let me die. I may not have a recordable voice but I swear to you, I will fight this thing as hard as I can, I'm going to submit an appeal! I- Wow same day, that was fast... and that's pretty vague....this was a bot too wasn't it? Wow. You... NYGAH! Is that all you got?! I beat sans SIX TIMES through sheer force of will FOR SCIENCE, and now you think I'm just going to give up? Even if I can't get this overturned, I will keep making videos. Maybe I'll host them somewhere else, maybe I'll start deliberately adding content to get it demonetized so they can't make a profit either, But I WILL finish what I started! You want to play with ME? Well then, all I have to say to that is, Let. The Games. Begin. [We now return to your regularly scheduled content] So I was scrolling through DeltaruneCode over breakfast the other day, y'know trying to wrap my froggit brain around a completely different mystery, when I saw something pretty weird. &quot;Unused&quot; that's... an odd file name right? Like you... planned from the beginning not to use this? What? So I opened it and I remembered earlier I'd seen people discussing this, but the file looked different than I remembered... this one mentioned &quot;hearing something scratching.&quot; So I opened the original version of the &quot;Survey Program&quot; and discovered what many of you might have already discovered. &quot;Oh hey the file DID change. It's almost like it's telling a story...&quot; And it's not a story just for coders either, Spamton himself references this dialogue directly when you interact with him at his shop. Which means this is probably going to come up more firmly in cannon at some point. That's pretty wild, I thought, that means Toby expects us to share this stuff with casual players... And that surprised me because I remember because in Undertale's days Toby had that creepy audio warning which he'd pinned to the top of the directory by naming it abc123a, listen: Hello. He-he-he-he-have some respect and don't spoil the game. It's impossible to have mysteries nowadays, because of nosy people like you. Please keep all of this between us. If you post it online, I won't make any more secrets. No one will be impressed. It will be your faaaaault. And he had a pretty unsettling message in text too, condemning anyone who shares the secrets as &quot;impatient&quot; and &quot;damaged&quot; in a way that kind of reminds me of the Genocide run to be honest, this idea of having a &quot;perverted sentimentality.&quot; Of course, once Undertale blew up, it was inevitable that the files would be leaked online, and when they were, both files were changed in the next update. The audio was just endless strings of laughter: He-he-he-he-ha-he-he-ha-he-he.He-he-he-he-ha-he-he-ha-he-he.He-he-he-he-ha-he-he-ha-he-he. But the text message was even more unsettling, because it appears to be written in the style of Chara, even starting with &quot;greetings,&quot; look: &quot;Greetings. You have made yourself completely clear. Understood. I, your humble servant, will follow you to the utmost...&quot; The connections here are further strengthened by how he placed this. The &quot;variables&quot; which call it are labeled, Chara refers to themselves as, &quot;the demon that comes when you call it's name.&quot; In-game Chara called us their &quot;partner,&quot; so it sounds like what Toby was communicating here was less of a defeated sigh, and more of a challenge. Like &quot;Oh, you want to be bad? You want to play a game? Well all right then, let the games begin.&quot; Thinking of it that way, a lot of things start to make sense. It explains why using the phone in the darkworld, calls us back to that hacker-only innaccessible room in Undertale, as does the sound the bunker makes when sped up. This isn't a &quot;secret easter egg for hackers.&quot; These two messages are meant to be brought together, Toby knows we're sharing different versions of his game, and swapping codes and info with each other. And just as I was starting to wonder if there was even more code related to this story McGus and Space Core of the Underminer discord drew So! With Halloween coming up, I thought I'd make a quick easy video examining some of the implications of this to tide you over while I pack... Why do I hear laughter echoing from across time? Wait does that say &quot;4600 words?&quot; Oh no. Oh. we're not getting this done before Halloween Disclaimer: Once again, we're theory crafting Deltarune when only the first two chapters are out. Much of this will likely be wrong, but that's okay! This isn't a channel about always being &quot;right&quot; or winning arguments. Instead let's have fun exploring what we can find, and the different ways we can fit the pieces together! So to begin with let's start with that Unused Text. When Deltarune first came out it read: Where... Where am I? Hello...? Anyone...? Is... anybody out there...? Someone!? Anyone!? Can anyone hear me!? ... It's dark. It's so dark here. Someone, anyone, if you can hear me... Say something... please... So right off the bat this person sounds like they're in the Dark World. But what's even more fascinating is, it seems like they either got &quot;sent&quot; there around the same time we arrived, Or at the very least, we're observing the results of their story from the beginning of their apparent imprisonment. Their statement that &quot;It's dark, It's so dark here&quot; Also reminds me of Spamton. When he first gets his NEO form he asks why it's, &quot;still DARK... SO DARK!&quot; With Chapter 2 we have a completely new set of text which reads: &quot;No one can hear me, can they...? ... I guess not. To be honest, I'm not even sure if I can hear myself. It's so quiet here... ... and yet, sometimes, Something like... scratching?&quot; &quot;Scratching&quot; is interesting. If we presume the source is something we as players can directly observe, the first obvious candidate is Spamton As when you're talking to him he seems to suddenly... &quot;Channel?&quot; or &quot;Hear&quot; the voice of this desperate unknown ... can anyone hear me? Help...&quot; He also seems to do this when he mentions the Knight as well, look at the way he suddenly jumps and starts screaming, almost like he can hear them threatening him. &quot;Kris, did you know that the Knight...No, I'm sorry! I'm sorry! I didn't mean to --&quot; Although, the text is lower case, so he could be repeating what he's hearing someone else say here too. Maybe I'm reading too much into this and he just signed a non-disclosure agreement. Another possibility is the Bunker, it makes sounds that are similar to the Dark World and we see these kids interacting with it. If our play through is occurring in lockstep with this mysterious person, then perhaps they heard these kids talking near the door, Or perhaps Susie when she kicks the door. But to me, the real fun question is: What if this character is out-of-bounds? The &quot;speech&quot; is in the code itself, but it's &quot;unused,&quot; Just like an object that's waiting in the empty space forever, never to be called. Not only that, but there appears to be more in some of the Unused Error Handlers. To begin with, we have obj_interactablesolid ...to explain what that is, imagine we have the Loaded Disk, right? The broken down machine in the basement, is like a Parent object, It has all these qualities like, &quot;can fly,&quot; and, &quot;is big,&quot; and then when we load it with Spamton, he's still himself, but he also takes on all the qualities and attributes of the new Parent body, and he overwrites some of his own data like his personality and dialogue in return. In that sense you could say the Mannequin is also a Parent Object that Spamton really doesn't want to be assigned to. Anyway, what I'm getting at is, if we examine either of these two &quot;parent objects,&quot; When there's nothing else assigned to them, they almost like there's a &quot;person&quot; trapped in There's a similar case in this line, obj_readable_room1, it prints the descriptions for various items and objects, but if the Room ID isn't assigned it says &quot;Suddenly, your body seizes up. What are you looking at?&quot; That sounds to me like you saw something unsettling. A similar sort of thing is scripted to happen In the light world it will say &quot;Your eyesight became blurry.&quot; and if the ID is 0, it will say &quot;Your heartbeat quickened.&quot; The Darkworld has some too, the invalid ID there says &quot;It could not be.&quot; And ID of 0 reads &quot;An emptiness filled your hands.&quot; There's some unimplemented code in scr_talkroom that has a similar vibe, it would have been used for a talk feature, and using it on an invalid target would have printed &quot;Your voice echoes aimlessly.&quot; Which sounds very much like our friend trapped A lot of these creepy unused messages got harder to call between chapters 1 and 2, as the update provided the game with additional, more readily called error code for most of these. This door, for instance, has this line of it's a redundant line, and the actual line is called from the aforementioned obj_readable_room1. It sort of reminds me of Goner Kid, when he says &quot;Have you ever thought about a world where everything is exactly the same... Except you don't exist? Everything functions perfectly without you... Ha, ha... The thought terrifies me.&quot; That's kind of how most of this code ended up at least, it's still &quot;there&quot; but you could subtract it without a problem, since there are &quot;proper&quot; error handlers that override them anyway. It seems like some of the code for obj_treasure_room also got rewritten elsewhere, like the door earlier. It reads, &quot;It won't open,&quot; but it looks wait, is that what these are? Scraps of paper? Wait... hang on I think that script is intended for this room. Phew, Scared me for a second there. Next we have the code &quot;obj_npc_room_animated,&quot; &quot;You can't read these symbols... Or maybe it's the handwriting.&quot; Oh crap not again, okay but it could also be a reference to sans' blueprints, or to the aforementioned &quot;scratching&quot; sound, like, maybe something carved &quot;these symbols&quot; or maybe they aren't written words at all but just scratch marks? By far the three creepiest bits of unused code are these three right here, once again, They'd be called in an invalid room from obj_npc_facing, Together they read: Is that a cut on your face, or The gash weaves down as if you cry, The pain itself is reason why.&quot; Gash on your eye... oh no he's back, Okay but hear me out; These are all using proper upper and lowercasing in English, and utilize all three writing systems in Japanese. The voice in the intro uses Katakana and Kanji almost exclusively in Japanese, and the wingding is in Romanji in as well. So while these might be &quot;about&quot; Gaster, they Does that make sense? Actually while I'm at this, The &quot;can anyone hear me&quot; by Spamton is also using the mix of all three characters, and the &quot;I'm sorry&quot; is all Katakana. Also in the &quot;probably Gaster&quot; neighborhood,there's actually some error handler in the Character Creator segment that's pretty Interesting too. For some reason it calls an &quot;egg&quot; if it bugs out when setting the Type variable? It can also just starts printing a list of Actually that kind of reminds me of how the Man who gives you the Egg in chapter 2, appears to be just off screen in the normally inaccessible That said, despite the many illusions to Goners and things &quot;functioning fine&quot; without you, there's actually only one NPC I know of that uses code like this, or uses interactable_solid as a base and that's... Toriel. obj_npc_toriel, Her unused dialogue would be: &quot;Hello there! How are you doing on this fine day?&quot; I don't know why I find that unsettling, I For all this talk of, &quot;redundant unnecessary&quot; error handling, I can kind of understand Toby's paranoia. I mean, I was around in the Missingno-is-the-pokegod days, and let me tell you, The last thing we need is a player finding a way to call forth random garbage data and causing people to mistake it for real intentional code-Oh no! Part 2 here we go again! Gosh darn it Missingno, I haven't made a pokemon video in years, how do you keep ending up here? Alrighty before we delve into this I'm going to need some more warnings aren't I? Warning 3! I'm about to get a bit critical about parts of someone else's video. If you find yourself thinking about harassing them, leaving them angry comments, or flagging their channel... Don't. Please don't. Just don't spread hate in general. Leave them a like, a positive comment, or They found a cool thing for us, can we all Yes? Awesome. It would appear, kesMadgik found a way to recruit Spamton without significantly altering the game's code. Is it real? How did they do it? Well, it says all we need to do is get to So alright, we're gonna add Ralsie to our party... wait isn't the game going to remove someone from my party the moment I trigger this cutscene? Meh, we'll just add extras. I'm sure this will be fine. Oh! Hm. I guess we need Kris, don't we? Okay Two Ralsies and a Kris then. Hey buddy! I brought you some friends, any chance you'll give us a discount? Okay now, we use pacify and... Oh hay it actually DID recruit him. Oh! .... oh no. We summoned a demon. Damn it Bill. It looks like now that the fight Oops! Okay so, not without some kind of hacking If we had debug mode maybe we could just use the room-shifting feature to just sorta, back out of the fight the moment we Pacify him? I've never run debug tools on Deltarune before so obviously we're... ...going to just run those blindly with no prep whatsoever at 3am! Alright. Ready.... Freddy.... Go go go! Er Did... did we do it? Hmm. Right we're going to save and back out of Alright looking at the Recruit data and oh! Is it... is it because this is where we fought Berdly? Hm, nope. It looks like what's happening here is, every time you open the menu it picks a random sprite and plays it with it's animations. So if you wanted to troll people you could do this, and then just keep randomizing until you get one with Spamton in it. But hey, look on the bright side, we finally What's cool is you can see the game's unused sprites, actual honest to God Background sprites for maps... ...and is that... is that a Heart Shaped This is way, way too much fun. I could seriously just sit here and do this all day. You don't even need to hack your game to do this with me either. I can just pass you the save file and literally everything is normal... except for this. Just gonna add that for my Patreon's to download...Ahahahahaha! Okay, but what's actually happening here, right? Like what is this text? Why did this happen? If I head back to the alley way is he gone or...? Nope he's still there! It looks like if we Spare him again it won't give us the &quot;recruited&quot; text again, because he's already &quot;been&quot; recruited. Darn. So, examining the code, it seems what's happening Toby DOES have an error handler for invalid recruits. Any time the Enemy ID doesn't match one of the pre-specified cases, it will set the Recruit Name to &quot;Known Quantity&quot; + &quot;the enemy's ID.&quot; If we look in the monster-setup code we can see that Spamton's ID is 49 so that checks out. The description will always be &quot;it is known&quot; So then, if we found a way to recruit another &quot;Known Quantity 0&quot; or &quot;Known Quantity If you want to see what that would look like saecremai already ran through the options and listed all the possibilities in their video, So I'll link it down below. But this begs the question, are there any other enemies we can do this with? Could we recruit Spamton NEO or the Sweet Cuppin' Cakes? I mean... it's worth a shot. Ralsie... do you have to... no, you know what it's fine. Alright so, it looks like he will never enter the &quot;Tired&quot; state no matter how much we smack him around. Eyeballing the code with all of the coding prowess of your average land-based-toad, I believe certain enemies are immune to ever becoming Tired, and this includes: Spamton NEO, Queen, Berdly, all of the Sweet Cuppin' Cakes, and Rouxls Kaard. I don't see Pipis here though... if I use the tension bit and have Noelle use Ice Shock would that be enough to weaken them for Pacify in one turn? Hmm... nope. Oh wow that freeze animation glitches it so hard, it stays on screen even in the next battle that's wild. Does it still say it's frozen... ...yes! Hitbox is weird though. Now that I think about it, it's odd that Toby actually assigned Spamton's recruit sprite this way... given that it bugs anyway, but... The only question that I can see right here, that Toby left a perfectly good sprite in the error handler for the Sprite info, so why doesn't it play? Hm.. maybe it got bugged up somewhere further Oh! &quot;If sprite was set to this, sprite equals You... You did this on purpose didn't you Toby? Whalp! What do you guys think? Is Toby just trolling us as a form of KARMIC retribution? Is Deltarune some kind of elaborate AR Game that will require the hacking community to unravel? Did you find a fun creepy-line I missed in the code? Lemme know down in the comments, the positivity down there always blows me away and I love seeing all the things you guys pick up on that I missed. Special thanks to my friends Sylvia and Pjoe for lending me their voices, We figured this was a good opportunity to try that out without diving in whole hog so let us know what you think! Now onto channel news. We're making one final attempt to play by youtube's rules. So, for the next few weeks, I'm going to be uploading a ton of random little videos using a webcam, so the bot sees a bunch of &quot;actual This SHOULD hopefully give me eligibility to re-apply for monetization without it looking &quot;auto-generated.&quot; If you've seen Unnus Annus think of that, but with less budget, and people and quality. I'm going to try to make said videos entertaining, and related to the Channel Theme when possible, But if it's not your cup of tea, I understand. It's only for a few weeks so don't panic! Patreon supporters will not be charged for these, since I won't be counting them as &quot;major&quot; videos. If that doesn't work I might switch platforms, or I might... well... let's not ruin the surprise. Aside from that you might be wondering &quot;What can I do to help?&quot; Well let's see, personally don't know how to start a hashtag trend or spread public awareness, but maybe some of you do? This isn't just about me here, youtube should not be allowed to make money on channels that are arbitrarily demonetized like this, Like, that should be criminal. If I were better at community building I'd suggest forming some sort of Youtube union, because we really do have a lot of power when we stand together, which is why they try to break our Determination by convincing us we're powerless. Regarding my small random videos, you could also help by opening them in a new tab and letting them play, even if they might not be your cup of tea. Just to help convince the bot of my humanity. Obviously if you can afford it, even $1 donations really do go a long way to help, like I actually have several tiers at the $1 mark specifically for that purpose. That said I completely understand if you can't afford to, You guys seriously have no idea how much even just the positive and fun comments you leave help me out. It's like every time I log on I get all these That said, if you have any other ideas on this, do feel free to leave them down below. Happy Belated Halloween, and brace yourself