Translator: Queenie Lee Hello. (Audience) Hello. My name is Tom Chi, and ever since I was a young child, I was determined to understand and that fascination led me I did astrophysical research in active galactic nuclei. Now, years after being a scientist I slowly kind of matured out of that It actually turns out is way harder to understand But I stayed with it, and in the process an inventor, and an entrepreneur, I've learned a lot about people. What I'm going to talk to you today Because as I learn about people, I get very interested for us as human beings relative to the challenges And one of those gaps that I've seen and the concept is a really simple one. It's the concept You've probably heard It's an element of almost throughout all of history. But whenever I hear people talk that &quot;we are all connected,&quot; they do so in a way where it's something they wish that it's something that's abstract; that it's esoteric; that it's a thing that is unprovable, but they just really wish And today I'm here to describe and not in some abstract, esoteric way but in a very concrete, direct, And I am going to do that a story of the heart, a story of the breath, and a story of the mind. So let's begin. So all of you in this audience today, your hearts are beating And the reason that your hearts beat is because you need to move this molecule And hemoglobin carries that's called heme B, which is what we see over here. Now, at the heart of heme B so in a way, at the heart of our heart And this is actually really a central part because this is the thing and move that through But one thing that you may not know is that the only way that iron is through supernovas So the universe started Hydrogen. Helium - And only through the process forming and exploding, was iron able to be created that now courses But the story doesn't really end there. Because - why do stars keep forming? Actually, after a supernova happens, it may be a long time before those gases So in order to understand how this works, we need to understand Even though there's a couple one of the most robust is this process: galactic collisions. And these are images and they show through a series of panels - because this process takes, different galaxies what the process So across the top, you get the galaxies and in the bottom three frames, you see them smashing into each other, and in the process of doing that, they set on fire with new star formation and whatever remains after the collision. Now, even here Because why in the world This doesn't seem like a thing So, to understand this, we're going to need And here we're at the level So last slide, two galaxies. This slide, 100,000 galaxies. Every one of these dots here And we're that red dot over here, And these glowing lines are not galaxies. These glowing lines are the trajectories that these galaxies are going over the coming billions of years in this beautiful gravitational dance in a gravitational structure which in Hawaiian means And it's this process, the gravitational dance which drive the process which drive massive star formation, which drive the process that courses through each one And in this way, every one of our heartbeats is connected. Now we're going to move to a second story. And this story is about breath. Taking a deep breath to connect with our own bodies - a deeply grounded, calming breath. But taking a deep breath was not something three billion years ago. On this slide, we have the composition during that time period. We had about the same amount of nitrogen, but we had almost no oxygen at all. So you would be taking a breath in vain And we actually had And the net effect was The only organisms were single-celled organisms inside of stromatolites Now, luckily for us, one of those organisms was something called a cyanobacteria. That's a picture of it in the background. And this organism has the special trick the ability to go take energy from the sun and transform carbon dioxide into oxygen. And over the course of billions of years, so starting from two little by little these bacteria and converted all into the oxygen that we now have. And it was a very slow process. First, they had to saturate the seas, then they had to saturate the oxygen and only then, finally, could oxygen begin to build up So you see, just after oxygen starts to build up And about 600 million years ago, The ozone layer forms from the oxygen And it sounds like a small deal, like we talked about the ozone but it actually turns out earth was not really able We had single-celled organisms, we had a couple of simple, but we didn't really And shortly after the ozone layer the earth was able to sustain There was a Cambrian explosion And the first plants got onto land. In fact, there was actually Another way to see this is, this is kind of a chart that you guys are familiar with. And right at the bottom in time Like nothing that you could exist without the contributions over those billions of years. And where are they now? Well actually, they never really left us. The direct descendants were eventually captured by plants. And they're now called chloroplasts. So this is a zoom-in of a plant leaf - and we probably where tons of little chloroplasts are still trapped - and making energy for the plants that continue to be the other half And in this way, our breaths Every out-breath is mirrored and their out-breath I'm going to take a little aside here Because imagine for a moment - imagine you were one two billions year ago. You might be born. You live a couple weeks. You die. And you kind of feel like, I mean, I had no purpose in this life. Like, the world I came to is exactly But what you wouldn't have understood contributed to the possibility lives that you would never see, lives that we are all a part of today. And it's worth thinking are actually not even Because it's true of every one and it may also be true of us. Last story of connection This is not &quot;our minds are or some scientifically unexplainable way,&quot; I'm going to explain through the simple story This is a piano. And I have actually a good Thanks, mom. She gave me piano lessons very early. I think you have to if you're Asian. But - (Laughter) a beautiful thing it is so nuanced and so much beauty can be created from it they can make an entire lifetime Professional musicians, concert pianists get to know this instrument And through it, they're able in a way that just dazzles us, But if you were to look into the mind and you used all the modern an interesting thing that you would see is how much of their brain The ability to coordinate ten fingers. The ability to work the pedal. The feeling of the sound. The understanding of music theory. All these things are represented as different patterns And now that you have recognize that this beautiful pattern was not possible even just Because the piano was not invented This beautiful pattern of thought And in this way, the skill of the piano, the beauty that comes from it was not a thinkable thought until And the invention of the piano itself It required a depth It required the history It required so many patterns that led to the possibility and then the possibility And it leads me to a concept I'd like to share with you guys, Because all of us are born into this life having available to us that has come so far. We typically are only able and the ways of being that existed before. So if the piano and the way this is a way of being that didn't exist It was a color in the Palette of Being Nowadays if you are born, you can learn to be a computer scientist, another color that was not available And our lives are really beautiful We're born into this life. We have the ability with the colors of being that are around us But in the process of life, we also have the unique opportunity And that might come A self-driving car. A piano. A computer. It might come from the way that you express yourself It might come from a piece Each one of these ways of being, these things that we through the creative process all the other things that existed allow us to expand the Palette of Being And this leads me everything that we've talked about today. Because I think a lot of us understand that we exist in this kind but we think about this universe there's this massive physical universe, and inside of that, that's society, and inside of us, we're just one person and how can we matter? And we think about this where all the goodness comes and there's nothing really But the Palette of Being It says that the way the way that we affect begin to change the way begins to change the way the way that society could then affect and the way that the biosphere and the universe itself. And if it's a possible thing to completely transform it is absolutely a possible thing And it leads to a really for the way that we're going to do that, the manner in which Because we've been given And because of this gift, we have the ability to deeply in the way we haven't seen other animals And because we can deeply we're the ones that have the decision on how we're going to go how we're going to go use it to build I think the reason have got this concept is because the societies are the ones that over time deepen their level of consideration, deepen their level of expression, deepen their level This is the reason that this idea at the core of spiritual traditions. And I hope through this talk that it appears at the core of science is it's actually something that is just at every single level of organization and every single manifestation So I'd like us all to come together and understand this truth about how the universe is, that because our hearts, our breath, and our mind are connected in this way, we need to challenge what it means to live from this truth. Thank you. (Applause)