Alicia Ray: All right. Good evening. It is 7 o'clock. We are ready to get this show on the road. Welcome to Wednesday night of the Nc. Ties fall 2024. Virtual Conference. I'm really excited. You're here. This is great. This is going to be a great session. I'm excited to present it actually shared it at our Nc. Bold over the summer, and got great feedback, and really had fun sharing this. Alicia Ray: So I'm excited for those of you that are here, and if you're watching later, super excited, you're here, too. So Alicia Ray: in order to follow along with the slides, there's lots of goodies in the slides. So if you'd like to follow along, the bitly is there on the screen, you're welcome to pop into the bitly Alicia Ray: and then you also have the QR code there, if you want to use that so bitly. And QR. Code are there for you, and just real quick while you guys are popping in if you will, in the chat. Just say kind of who you are, where you're from, what you're about, and that'll give some folks a second to get Alicia Ray: logged in, and also give people a second to hop into the the bitly if you want. Alicia Ray: Erin dropped the bitly. She's so great. I love our moderators. Alicia Ray: Leslie, Lisa and Kimberly awesome. Alicia Ray: The Biddy. Erin Wolfhope: Correct. Alicia Ray: I got you. Erin Wolfhope: 3, so. Alicia Ray: Oh, I know Erin's rocking it out over here with less than stellar vision. So we're very happy with Biddy. It's okay. Alicia Ray: Let's. Erin Wolfhope: The link works. Alicia Ray: Hey? You know Alicia Ray: what? Whatever it takes. So, Leslie, look. Alicia Ray: I did not realize you weren't middle anymore. Alicia Ray: Wow, okay. K, 5 and 9, 12. That's a fun Alicia Ray: difference. Leslie Pope: I am anti middle school right now. I think I did it too long. Alicia Ray: Oh, I get it! I get it. I love me. Some middle school kids. Oh, Lord! There's something else being back in the classroom. It's been amazing. So Alicia Ray: there bitly love you, all right. So we're going to go ahead and just roll on those of you that are here. I'm just really excited that you're here, and hope that there's something that you can walk away with and share with your fellow teachers or your students, depending on what your current situation is Alicia Ray: so Alicia Ray: out Alicia Ray: right off the bat. I'm Alicia Ray. I am a little bit of a swifty lately. I was not a swifty to begin with, but have quickly become a swifty because she's dating my boyfriend Travis Kelsey and so if you're into the Travis and Taylor thing, feel free to pop in here tomorrow night. And check that out, and we'll have a really good time talking about some Travis and Taylor. Alicia Ray: If you don't love Travis and Taylor. It's okay. Join. Anyway, I am from Surrey County schools. I am currently the project. Lead the way, teacher at Central Middle School and absolutely love my time there I was in the library for 10 years prior to joining this this new switch. Alicia Ray: and it just does my heart good to be back in a classroom. I really miss that environment and just being able to grow relationships with kids over, you know, a full, a full semester a full year rather than seeing them, maybe once or twice a month in a middle school media center. So it's been really good. You can catch me on X, formerly known as Twitter and Instagram at. I love educating my email, is there? Of course, my Alicia Ray: my.com. If you want to follow along, I'm trying to blog about my experience in the classroom. But honestly, I'm I'm a classroom teacher again. Y'all, and I'm just tired. So sometimes it just doesn't happen. But Alicia Ray: I will. I also am the author of Educational Eye, Exam. Published by Dave Burgess, consulting. So the 2 little beauties behind me are Bailey and Sophie Bailey's the one with the glasses. Sophie does not have glasses Alicia Ray: no, yet just found out. She's going to need them, but these 2 are my reason for everything. And it's so important to me that we stay on top of artificial intelligence as educators, because when I look at it, it's going to impact my life. It will impact your life. But it's going to impact my daughter's lives more than anything. And so it's really important to me that we stay on top of this and teach them a responsible way to use artificial intelligence. Alicia Ray: not just copying and pasting. Alicia Ray: So that's why we are here at moving beyond moving students beyond the AI copy paste era. Alicia Ray: So one of the 1st things that we have here on our slide deck Alicia Ray: is an activity that I do with my students. Alicia Ray: and it has been so. Eye opening. It has brought so many good conversations to the table. And I believe that it's really important when we're talking about ethics. And we're talking about morality issues. Really, whenever we're talking about artificial intelligence or anything that we bring the kids to the table and we have them have their own space that they can sit and talk with us to as adults, because at that point that's when they're really going to tune in. If we're just preaching to them. Alicia Ray: they're tuned out, especially if you're in middle or high. So I love being able to do this with this activity with my students. So if you click on the little cat and dog the cute little fluffiness there, that's there. For a reason, all of my different images are typically clickable. So you can click on that, you'll see the basic idea of what it is. You're going to get a 1 sheeter. That shows you everything that you need to know. But you'll just need to click that. Alicia Ray: But for Tom's sake, instead of me going in and showing you all that, I'm going to show you the meat and potatoes. Okay? Alicia Ray: So meat and potatoes is when the kids come in, I separate them into 4 groups. However, you want to do that is up to you. Alicia Ray: and I'm going through 1, 2, 3, 4, unless they come in and they figure out my numbering system. And then, you know, 2 moves back to the 2 spots so they can now be with their friends. And then all of a sudden, I start counting 4, 3, 2 1, and they get really tore up from the floor up about that. Alicia Ray: It's fun for them. Very fun, not really. But here we have this. This is your paragraph, your prompt right. Write one paragraph 4 to 6 complete sentences, telling whether cats or dogs are the most superior. Pet. Alicia Ray: Consider facts like companionship, loyalty, independence, ease of care, and any personal experiences you have had with cats or dogs, be sure to use correct grammar, capitalization and punctuation. Alicia Ray: So basically, I'm taking the scary out of this for kids. I'm not asking them to explain Mitosis to me. I'm just asking them a simple opinion question. Alicia Ray: So on this slide, you can actually click on 1, 2, 3, and 4, 1, 2, 3, and 4. You can play around with it on your own time. I'm good with that, even if you're watching later, you have the bitly, it's not changing. So you can go and click your 1, 2, 3, and 4, and you're going to see the forms that the students are provided. Alicia Ray: Those forms are different, based on which group you're in. So group one has absolutely no AI. They have to do everything on their own. So they they don't get any outside help. They just write their paragraph straight up, like we would imagine students doing in a classroom Alicia Ray: group 2 is given a link to magic school. AI. And if you've never played with that absolutely play with it, I highly recommend actually have a video at the end of the session. That shows exactly how I did the classrooms in magic school again, just for the sake of time. I'm not going to go through all that with us. But there is a video in the slide deck. So check that out. Alicia Ray: But 2. The students use magic school, AI to brainstorm Alicia Ray: what they're going to write about. So if they have no idea they can add in, you know. Alicia Ray: Just stick the prompt in there, and it gives them some ideas Alicia Ray: in Group 3. These students are required to actually write out a paragraph just like Group One. Did. They have to write their paragraph. Alicia Ray: but then they get to copy and paste their paragraph into a magic school classroom that gives them the editing tools. Alicia Ray: So they have a proofreader. They have a writing feedback tool. They have a grammar corrector. They've got great stuff there that they can use, and then the second part of their form is, they have to copy and paste that. Yes, this is a free feature of magic school. Alicia Ray: Oh, yeah, super super awesome. And then group 4, Group 4 is actually going to be the one who they do the worst thing possible. They copy and paste. Alicia Ray: So their generator they get to go in and they have a content generator, and they're able to just pop in the Alicia Ray: the prompt. Exactly the way it is. Alicia Ray: Take what's given to them, and copy and paste Alicia Ray: now they could. Of course, if they're an advanced AI Creator, advanced AI user, they can absolutely go in and change up their prompts and all that. Alicia Ray: But typically this is my students. First, st Alicia Ray: educational experience with artificial intelligence Alicia Ray: and helping them walk down a path to see that Alicia Ray: you know, copying and pasting is not what we want to do. Alicia Ray: So again, bringing them to the table and having conversations is super powerful. Alicia Ray: So we do. This quick little activity takes 5, maybe 7 min. Okay. Alicia Ray: then, while they're doing that, and I'm gonna kind of pop into the background here. So you can see maybe if my all my thing there. Yeah, here we go. Alicia Ray: I pop into the background still. Lisa Dale: And amplify all the work. Alicia Ray: Let's see. Erin Wolfhope: Gotcha sorry about that. Alicia Ray: No, you're good. You're good, I am. Alicia Ray: Here's my home. Alicia Ray: I'm just gonna have to go here to history and hope it'll pull up. Alicia Ray: Yes, okay. Alicia Ray: here we go. Alicia Ray: So while that's going on, I pull up in the background Alicia Ray: their responses. Alicia Ray: Okay? So these are all teacher responses. So of course, when they're teacher responses they're going to be a little more robust than student responses. But here you'll see group one group 2, 3 Alicia Ray: and 4 and I just put them all into one spreadsheet, so I don't have to be jumping all over the place. Okay. Alicia Ray: now, what I do with that is, I take those, and I pop them into Alicia Ray: a slideshow. So kids are working right, they're they're doing their thing, and I'm over here doing my thing. Alicia Ray: But their slide deck as soon as they finish their their Alicia Ray: There are paragraphs I pull up Alicia Ray: to AI or not to AI. And I say, kids, we're going to play a game. Alicia Ray: And your Alicia Ray: basically, all you have to do is, tell me, do you think people used AI to write this? Or did they not use AI to write this. Alicia Ray: And that's all. That's basically their whole directions. Alicia Ray: So here's an example of a slide. How much AI was used in the creation of this paragraph one, none, 2, little threesome or 4. It was all written by AI, Alicia Ray: depending on your classroom management style or your group of students period. You could just have them put up the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, or you could do like a 4 corners activity in your room if you need a little movement. Alicia Ray: So they go and they stand. And we say, Okay, cool moving on. Next one do the same thing right? And we continue that. Alicia Ray: So what ends up happening. Spoiler, alert kids figure out real quick which ones are written by AI. It's very clear, especially when they're written by students. And so then they're sitting there going. Oh, wait! Alicia Ray: What? That's not fair that that was written by AI. Alicia Ray: Why was that fair that they got to do that? And I didn't get to do that. There's may sound better than mine. Well, mine has a personal experience. So there's a whole conversation that starts happening in the classroom that I really don't have to start. It's organic, and I love that. Alicia Ray: However, if you have one of those classes where there is no organic conversation happening anywhere, or if the organic conversation is not what you're looking for. Alicia Ray: Here are some reflection and debrief questions that you can use fantastic stuff to start conversations with students. Alicia Ray: You could always stick these into your Lms and have a discussion board if if you so choose, you could add on one. If you wanna continue the conversation as a bell ringer every time you come in for a week. There are so many different options here with to AI or not to. AI. Okay. Alicia Ray: so these Alicia Ray: are all. Alicia Ray: Come on, friend, there we go. These are all in our if you click on this to AI or not to AI. It gives you the option to make. Think, to make a copy. Alicia Ray: I honestly can't remember if I made a copy or just showed you either way. Alicia Ray: even if it doesn't give you the option to file. Make a copy. Alicia Ray: If you are a Microsoft friend, you can go in and download it as a Google Doc. Alicia Ray: not a Google Doc. Download it as a Microsoft word document. And then you can go upload it into your onedrive and do what you need to do. Okay? Alicia Ray: So before we move on to all the goodness, if you have any questions. Alicia Ray: how often do I do this? Awesome. So I usually just do this at the beginning of the year. Last year I did it it was about February or March. I gave some time, and really wanted my kids to start feeling more comfortable in the library, because, you know, believe it or not, it takes forever to get them comfortable in the library when you only have them once a month. So you know, it's like my 6th or 7th time seeing them. Alicia Ray: But I do this with 6, th 7, th and 8th grade. Because magic school is so amazing. I don't have to worry about students, identities being stolen and things like that. Magic school is very clean, good stuff definitely, something you could advocate for. Alicia Ray: Do I have any other questions? You can either unmute and share your question, or if you want to type it in the chat box either way. Erin Wolfhope: I have another question. Sorry which project lead the way, curriculum are you using? And would you do this? Like Erin Wolfhope: to help them? Brainstorm ideas for projects and things like that, and then run the same kind of protocol. Alicia Ray: Yes, absolutely so. My 6th grade Pltw. Is design and modeling. So we design one of our 1st big project is designed to design an ankle foot orthosis for a child with spastic hemoplesia. Alicia Ray: And so what we're actually, we're actually doing this on Monday, Monday and Tuesday, we're going to do the same activity, except for they are going to use the same 4 boxes, the same 4 ideas. But it's gonna be it's gonna have their prompt for creating Alicia Ray: the ankle foot orthosis. Alicia Ray: So it's gonna have all their design requirements, everything they needed to have, and then have the AI Alicia Ray: either help them. You know, edit what they've thought about. Alicia Ray: or just completely write it for them. And Alicia Ray: you know, basically, they would design it with words. And then the students would take that and be able to build on it if they'd like 7th grade. I do medical detectives, medical detectives is really fun because we get to go in and Alicia Ray: diagnose different diseases based on patient notes and their vital signs. Alicia Ray: And so the kids are actually, once they have diagnosed the disease, they are actually going to put that into an AI as well and see if that information Alicia Ray: gave them the same result. So basically, they're going to self check. Alicia Ray: And then 8th grade does automation and robotics. And we're going to be using a lot of AI to work with our coding and then go in and verify their code and the the AI can go in and debug code versus AI creating code. So I'm really excited to see that work. Alicia Ray: Yeah, that's a good question. Thank you. Alicia Ray: Awesome. Alicia Ray: Okay, friends. So the rest of this is fast and furious. So if you're not holding on to your seatbelt yet, then I'm gonna need you to go ahead and buckle up, because Alicia Ray: I've not even started fast, started talking fast yet like that's coming. So here we go. So I'm going to put this back on present. Hello, present mode! So glad you could be with us again. So this session we are learning strategies for preventing AI driven cheating. The 1st strategy is to always bring the students to the table step one. Alicia Ray: Have the open and honest conversation with students, especially if you're teaching some of the older kids. They appreciate being treated as equals, assessing creativity versus content knowledge, and having a balance there. Because when you are asking kids to write things. Alicia Ray: how much are you actually trying to evaluate their creativity? Their thought process versus the content that they're spitting out. So that's a conversation just to be had. There's no right or wrong answer. We're just going to host a conversation. Alicia Ray: Be innovative in various assessment methods. So there's lots of things you can do outside of writing. Not that writing is ever bad. I'm always up for writing. I feel like writing is a vital part of our education. But can we do something else and then pull writing in at the end. Alicia Ray: So we're gonna talk about that. And then, of course, we're looking at the future of academic integrity. Here we're talking about copying and pasting no longer from a Google search, but from an artificial intelligence. And what does that mean? Whenever you copy and paste from something that's not a human Alicia Ray: something that does not have credit per se. So that's going to be another piece. If you would like to download the think sheet and take notes at any time. There's a think sheet here feel free to click on it. It's going to give you a Google Doc that you can follow along with, or if you're a handwritten note person, go for it. Alicia Ray: Alright. There we go. Alicia Ray: So 1st we have to define cheating. Alicia Ray: That's huge. Alicia Ray: So in the chat box real quick. I want you to take a second, and I just want you to write Alicia Ray: what is cheating in your eyes. Alicia Ray: If a student does XY, or Z. Not necessarily with AI Alicia Ray: it could be with AI, but it doesn't have to be Alicia Ray: what is cheating. Alicia Ray: Course. I would have Alicia Ray: closed out my chat box when I came back here, fix that Alicia Ray: here, you are chat box Alicia Ray: okay kimberly says, taking someone's work without giving them credit definitely Alicia Ray: disregarding established rules to complete the task. Alicia Ray: like it using someone else's work. Yes. Tanya, yeah. Alicia Ray: all of these Alicia Ray: totally correct Alicia Ray: notice how everybody's is different, though Alicia Ray: it's worded differently. You have a different level where you're like, okay, yeah, that's this is okay. But this crosses a line. Everybody's line is at a different point. Some people have dotted lines. Some people have one solid line. Some of us are 2 solid yellow line people, and we are not crossing that line. Right? So Alicia Ray: it's really important that we have a conversation about what is cheating. Have these conversations with students? Alicia Ray: Because sometimes they don't know what cheating would be considered. Alicia Ray: We've pushed, and I say we, because me, too. Alicia Ray: we have pushed collaboration so much Alicia Ray: that back in my day, when I was a kid, when I was a kid, if I were to lean over and talk to a student while I was working on a discussion board. Yeah, right? Like I was working on a discussion board while I was working on a hand drawn project, they would have said I was cheating and taken ideas from them. Where now we encourage that. Alicia Ray: So that's a good conversation to have. Alicia Ray: But let's look at what the Oxford Dictionary says Alicia Ray: the Oxford Dictionary actually is who's making this very interesting for us. Alicia Ray: So we have cheating, cheating according to Oxford Dictionary, is acting dishonestly or unfairly in order to gain an advantage, especially in a game or exam. Alicia Ray: Okay, so that's a little more aligned with what Erin was saying, like going outside the boundaries. Alicia Ray: But then we have the word plagiarism. Alicia Ray: Plagiarism is defined as the practice of taking someone else's work or ideas and passing them off as one's own. Alicia Ray: So one of the reasons that I mentioned at the beginning of this session that I'm an author is because this is very important Alicia Ray: cheating. Alicia Ray: using my book. Alicia Ray: If I were to go to any courthouse in the world and sue someone for cheating Alicia Ray: with a book. It would go nowhere. It would get kicked out Alicia Ray: if I went to a courthouse and claimed plagiarism of my book. Alicia Ray: Then your girl's going to start making some money right? That is, that is my ideas. Those are my thoughts. It seems to be very black and white when we're talking about Alicia Ray: the world we're used to. Alicia Ray: But now we throw in artificial intelligence. Alicia Ray: And that piece, someone else's is what makes it really really gray Alicia Ray: because there are a lot of things to discuss here. Alicia Ray: There's the philosophical approach is AI, someone else Alicia Ray: is AI, a beam. Alicia Ray: because we know how AI works. It takes all this information that it has from databases. It, plugs it all together, and it goes ahead and paraphrases it for you. Alicia Ray: Well, that's how we tell kids not to plagiarize, we say, paraphrase it. Alicia Ray: So is the AI plagiarizing, or is the AI paraphrasing? Alicia Ray: So then, that's a whole conversation that you. You have to start thinking about this in a much deeper way. Alicia Ray: We all have to have this conversation amongst ourselves, as educators. Educational leaders need to be having this conversation, and we need to bring these students to the table to talk about it, too. Alicia Ray: Now there are court cases all over everywhere right now trying to decide Alicia Ray: what is plagiarism when it comes to AI. Alicia Ray: Can you actually plagiarize AI, Alicia Ray: we need to rewrite the whole definition. We need to understand how artificial intelligence actually works behind the scenes in order to understand if someone is plagiarized or not. There's a lot of nuances here that you, girl. Alicia Ray: I don't have all that in my brain. Okay. Alicia Ray: I'm just saying it is worth looking at. And when we say they're cheating. Alicia Ray: maybe they are, maybe they're not. But when I look in policies it's very rare for me to see cheating Alicia Ray: as a policy in education Alicia Ray: a lot of times. I love that, Erin. Thank you so much for popping that in AI paper. Right? Cheating lawsuit. Yes, they're everywhere, everywhere. And that was a whole thing with the writer's strike Alicia Ray: in Hollywood, right? Like they're like, what Alicia Ray: what's happening here, you know, who owns this? Alicia Ray: so plagiarism is something we really need to think about. And does it apply, does it not apply? There's a lot of conversations to be had. Alicia Ray: When I think about cheating, I always try to frame it this way. I have a lot of students that come in, and they don't speak English. Alicia Ray: and I have them go in, and they're using an AI to translate the document. Alicia Ray: and then they help. They use the AI to kind of help them understand what it is. I might actually be asking Alicia Ray: And then they write, but maybe they've written it in English. Alicia Ray: They're they're trying out their English, and their English isn't so great yet. They're Alicia Ray: grammar. Is not that great? Imagine that I'm 39 years old, an English speaker, and I do not have great grammar at all. I have an editing team for that. Alicia Ray: But Alicia Ray: these kids, when they go in, and they use something like the editing tool and AI. Alicia Ray: Are they cheating? Alicia Ray: Is that an unfair advantage, or is that leveling the playing field? Alicia Ray: So these are conversations. Right? Just think about it. I'm not telling you a right or a wrong. I just want you to leave here with these thoughts in your head and start to decide what are your feelings about this? Alicia Ray: Because that is absolutely a new piece of educational technology, that when we think about our educational philosophy. Alicia Ray: Most of us did not have that. When we 1st started thinking about our educational philosophy, we need to have an opinion about this and be ready to stand on it. Alicia Ray: Stand on business. Friends stand on business. Alicia Ray: I love that Erin shares the Nctas. Advocacy Committee has a great substack that shares out educational policy articles definitely check that out. The Advocacy Committee is Alicia Ray: fabulous. They're constantly looking at what's best for really, everyone. They're looking at. Erin Wolfhope: They won't share an opinion, but they will share just the the piece. So you guys can think about it yourself. But just like following along with what Alicia saying, like, you need to be informed so that you can have an opinion and you know, get involved. Be be aware of your school board policies regarding AI use and what their expectations are. And Erin Wolfhope: yeah, lots of conversations to be had. But don't don't shirk or shy away from them because we all need to be a part of them. Alicia Ray: Absolutely because there are kids like my 2 littles that it's it's their world. This is. This is everything for them moving forward. So it's important. Alicia Ray: So Alicia Ray: now we're gonna hop in. Alicia Ray: Please don't read this whole thing I hate. When a presenter puts up a paragraph and says, Read it. Okay, please do not feel that you have to read this mess Alicia Ray: instead. What I'd like you to do is the bold. Just that one bold line. Alicia Ray: Well, 4 bold lines, one bold sentence. Alicia Ray: okay. Alicia Ray: in the chat I'd like for you to just paraphrase it, put it, put it in a way that a 5 year old can understand it right? Alicia Ray: For years before the release of Chat Gpt. 60 to 70% of students admitted to cheating, and that remained the same in 2023 surveys, according to research. If you want more of the research done by Stanford, you can click the cute little bitmoji there, and it's going to take you to the article which will branch you out to the research. I believe Alicia Ray: our chat is quiet today, and that's okay. Alicia Ray: Y'all are like me. Look, I'm I'm doing the the teacher, Mullet. I'm bringing back my covid. 2019 and 2020 vibes where I have my hair, and I have my cute little sweatshirt, but I'm definitely in an outfit mullet, because I have on my pajama pants. So some of you may be feeling that vibe. Alicia Ray: But for me this screams Destiny's child! Alicia Ray: Destiny's child says that haters are gonna hate. Alicia Ray: right? Alicia Ray: Cheaters are gonna cheat. This is what that's saying. Alicia Ray: Cheating has always been a thing. Yes, Leslie, yes, Erin, the number of students has been consistent. It's not changed. Alicia Ray: So that tells me that cheating is not an artificial intelligence problem. Cheating is an ethics and morality problem. Alicia Ray: And that's way deeper than anything we could ever talk about in a 45 min session. Alicia Ray: So keep that in mind, especially if you are advocating Alicia Ray: for students to use AI in your classroom, and there's always those that are going to say, oh, no, they're going to cheat. We'll have these conversations Alicia Ray: now, while we're talking about cheating. Let's talk real quick about some AI detectors, because, let me tell you, no, no, no, no, no, no, please, no! I am begging you. There are students all over right now that are being kicked out of universities Alicia Ray: because their professors put their information into an artificial intelligence detector without their consent, mind you. And it came back and said that it was such and such percent Alicia Ray: created by AI, Alicia Ray: and then kids are getting kicked out. Alicia Ray: Now, I don't know about you guys, but if I let's say I feel like I have Covid. Alicia Ray: if I feel like I have Covid Alicia Ray: and I go to the doctor, and they say, Well, here I do have a test that you can take for it, and it'll tell you if you do or not, but sometimes it's right, and sometimes it's wrong. Alicia Ray: sometimes it's going to give you a false positive, and sometimes it's going to give you a false negative, but we can do it if you want to, and then I'll go ahead and diagnose you based on what it says. Alicia Ray: y'all, I don't want that. Alicia Ray: If my doctor cannot give me more than that, then I'm going to say No, thank you. I'd rather take a test of something that helps something that's accurate. AI detectors are not accurate, and there is study after study after study that proves that AI detectors are not accurate, no matter what they say. Alicia Ray: Our Ncdpi, our generative AI guidance, says very clearly, in the State of North Carolina, we understand that generative AI detectors are not the way to go. Alicia Ray: So how are we ever going to prevent students from using AI Alicia Ray: to copy and paste? How are we ever gonna know? Well, 1st of all, we're having that conversation with them. We're showing them right. They can figure out Alicia Ray: what's AI and what's not. AI. Alicia Ray: That's a real easy thing to say to kids, you know my 8th graders get, you know. Look. Alicia Ray: if you can tell, this is AI. Don't you think I can tell? This is AI? Alicia Ray: Right. Alicia Ray: Yes, Leslie, I have heard of that so many times. Grad school making people use. Turn it in. And I'm telling you. Alicia Ray: as a slippery slope. Alicia Ray: I have personal feels, and I'm trying to stay out of it. Alicia Ray: But it it is a slippery slope. Alicia Ray: Ai. Detectors are far more likely to flag the work of non-native English speakers than the work of native speakers. And so again, we are. We have a very strong bias here. Alicia Ray: Very strong prejudice, very strong bias which we're going to see over and over again in AI use. And that's something we have to be very careful about. Alicia Ray: One of my favorite books about artificial intelligence. Right now is Ken Shelton and Dee. Lanier's The promise and Perils of AI and Education. This is a fantastic book to look at. Some of the biases that AI has. Alicia Ray: That we may not even be Alicia Ray: recognizing. Alicia Ray: I love you, Pam. Alicia Ray: I love you. Alicia Ray: See, that's that's my cheering section. Alicia Ray: So moving on. Here you go. Holly Clark also talks about why AI detectors oh, they'll be back. Yay, Kennedy are coming back in March. Good, good! Definitely catch their sessions. AI detectors are problematic. Holly Clark gives us this information and you can also click on the picture. Click on that image. And it's going to take you to directly to her blog, so that you get all of her goodness. Alicia Ray: and then the last one that I have for you the last data that I have for you is from Amanda Bickerstaff, from AI for education. This is her post about AI detection. Failing again, and it definitely takes a more educational research stand to it so absolutely check that out if you need backup. There are all kinds of session, all kinds of articles, and Alicia Ray: really like things are being posted in journals now about this that are saying, please do not use it. Alicia Ray: So Alicia Ray: even my friend Sam Sam Altman, we're not really friends, but it would be really cool if we were. Maybe we can be one day Sam Altman's the CEO of Openai who created Chat Gpt, and basically says, you know, there are ways that teachers will be likely to detect it. But a kid's going to get around it anyway. A determined person is going to figure out a way to get around it. Alicia Ray: So what are we gonna do like Alicia Ray: now, lady, you're leaving me with no choices, and I'm frustrated. Well, that's where I'm coming to tell you. This is fast and furious Alicia Ray: to prevent cheating. Let's go back to the good stuff. Alicia Ray: Good teaching is good teaching. Why are we not documenting their learning when they're writing anymore? What happened to brainstorming? What happened to graphic organizers? What happened to have them actually write in a writing notebook and follow the writing process. Alicia Ray: If they're following the riding process. Alicia Ray: it's going to be nearly impossible Alicia Ray: for them to use. Tanya. It is by Ken Shelton and Dee Lanier. Alicia Ray: But if they are following the writing process, it's very, very difficult for them to cheat, because now they're having to take ownership of their writing. They can't take the prompt and just plug it into an AI and say, Oh, here's an answer, and pop it back out with no concern. Right? So here they have to think. Alicia Ray: And the thinking process is the most important part of the writing process. Alicia Ray: That's what writing is really about. It's about sharing ideas. And if they're not your ideas, what's the point in sharing it? Alicia Ray: So Alicia Ray: another thing is to create a generate, a creative element. Alicia Ray: Okay, so something creative that goes with it. I had a teacher in world history forever ago. Alicia Ray: It was. It's been a minute. But if the thought still applies, she had us research a castle around the world. And once we researched that castle around the world, we actually had to build the castle. Alicia Ray: And so that was really interesting, because clearly I think about that now, as an educator, I can't go, put in an AI. What my Alicia Ray: castle would be, and what I would want to know about it, and how I could create it. I still have to put effort in. I still have to own the learning. Alicia Ray: And what is your goal Alicia Ray: whenever you're having students write. That's a really big piece of the puzzle. Because, as we said earlier, we have creativity and we have content. So we've checked off our AI driven, cheating. Alicia Ray: primarily assessing content, conventions, creativity, and by creativity I really mean originality. But it didn't go with my Alicia Ray: alliterative thing. I had going on there. So we went to creativity or communication. What are you wanting kids to do when they're writing? There's different times for all of these. Alicia Ray: and so depending on what you're asking them for, have your rubric be generated to assess those things that you are actually trying to assess higher than other things. If you don't care that day about their conventions, you just want their thoughts on paper. You just want them to communicate an idea. Alicia Ray: Then let's let's lower the stress level. Lower. Some kids anxiety because they stress out about not being able to spell. Alicia Ray: And those kids that can't spell or that feel like. They're not great writers. They're going to go straight to an AI. Alicia Ray: Now, of course we have grammarly, and I'm I'm not. I don't have any kind of feels about grammarly. I'm good with that. But you know, if I tell a kid, sweetie, I'm not really worried about your spelling, just do the best you can. I just want your ideas. Alicia Ray: then that really takes the pressure off the kid, and they are less likely to go out and copy and paste because they feel more comfortable giving that information. Alicia Ray: Okay. Alicia Ray: if you oh, better. Alicia Ray: Ps, if you click on that link, it's going to take you to a rubric generator so that we don't have to waste our time. I'm very upset that I've been through education for 19 years without a rubric generator. But this one's amazing from magic school. So check that out. Alicia Ray: Or what if call me crazy? This is my favorite piece of this whole session. I'm just gonna tell you it's 1 of those moments right? What if Alicia Ray: the students created a product? Alicia Ray: What if they did that? Alicia Ray: And then they wrote about what they created and how it relates. Alicia Ray: it's going to be awfully hard for an AI generator to write about something that was student created. Alicia Ray: It's going to be awfully hard for them to have that metacognitive approach. Because AI is not really designed to be metacognitive, like, we're trying to teach our students to be Alicia Ray: so. If a student is creating a product. Let's say, in Ela class, we want them to write Alicia Ray: we want them to talk about the theme. Alicia Ray: the mood, the tone. We can have them do that. But why not have the kids make a playlist using today's music? Alicia Ray: And then in the playlist they have to reference back. Why did you choose that? How does that represent the theme? Alicia Ray: AI is not going to be able to pull Alicia Ray: Shabuzzy's bar song that has just come out and tell you how Shabuzzy's Bar song relates to Romeo and Juliet. Alicia Ray: Okay, that's a that's a mental thing. That's something that we we can help. Students do. Alicia Ray: Okay. Alicia Ray: stepping back for a second in the writing notebook, capture that writing process because when you are prepared to accuse a student of using artificial intelligence to cheat, because, remember, Sam Altman told him. They're going to try to get around it. They're going to do it, anyway. Alicia Ray: But it's a whole lot easier to say, sweetie, bring me your writing notebook. Let me see that real quick. Alicia Ray: you know. I noticed that in in your brainstorming I noticed that you thought you were going to go with this idea, and then you even mapped it out with the thinking map. Alicia Ray: But you all of a sudden switched. And your paper is about this. Alicia Ray: Can you help me understand where that leap happened? Alicia Ray: If they can't understand it? Then you have a solid basis for thinking. Okay, something's something is amiss. Right? Alicia Ray: Yes, Erin, write a reflection about your writing absolutely. What did you write? And why did you write it? Alicia Ray: 100%. There's nothing wrong with having them do that Alicia Ray: or even have them go. And you know I'm a fan of writing an outline after I've written my paper. Alicia Ray: and so then have them go in and write the outline. Alicia Ray: Tell me what you told me about. Alicia Ray: If they can't give me an outline of what they've written, then I'm ready to have a conversation. Not just say that. Oh, the AI detector told me you did this. Alicia Ray: Okay. Alicia Ray: this is also a good point, a good spot to mention to students. There is a difference between formal and informal writing, informal writing. When I'm turning something in it needs to be accurate. I don't want to see. BC, I don't want to see Idk. I don't want to see Finna. Okay. But in your notebook Alicia Ray: look, all bets are off. Spell things wrong. Put Finna. I don't care. Alicia Ray: I'm gonna get tore up, too. It's fine. Alicia Ray: But put it in your notebook. Don't put that in your actual paper. Okay. Alicia Ray: I know that Juliet was tore up from the floor up. But we're not going to put that in our paper. Juliet had a real hard time. Alicia Ray: Okay. Alicia Ray: it's all right. Now let's talk about some oral conferencing, because somewhere around Covid time I don't know what happened, but educators somewhere we got so used to that go guardian and such that we forgot that we got legs. Alicia Ray: and we can get right on up out our chair and go over there and talk to sweet little little bonnie who needs a little bit of help. Alicia Ray: Okay, so get up Alicia Ray: right. If you're not physically able to get up. Alicia Ray: have a student get up and come talk to. You have some world conferencing. Alicia Ray: Kids still can't lie to your face. They're not good at it. Alicia Ray: they can tell you whatever through writing, but if you have a conversation, they still stutter when they lie. Alicia Ray: they still, their face turns red. Alicia Ray: They still give cues. I did put in here submit, because I do want to give a shout out. To submit. Submit is screen castifies Alicia Ray: basically their alternative to flip. So if you were in love with flip, flip, grid, submit by screencastify. They are advertising as an alternative, it is free for teachers to use until may absolutely check that out. But there's some other ideas there for you check those out. We'll skip back past all that share time, because we're about out of time. But I see we got it better in teachers here. Alicia Ray: So with our veteran teachers, we're gonna move right on in Alicia Ray: innovative assessment options. Alicia Ray: Y'all. Alicia Ray: it's a choice board. Alicia Ray: That's it. Alicia Ray: Give them a choice board any of these things they could do a metacognitive writing assignment about. So if you want to pull in writing into your classroom, you can. Alicia Ray: But let's have them create something, and then do a metacognitive writing assignment about it. Because AI is not going to be in that room with you. Alicia Ray: I love, whenever teachers have debates in their classroom, and then they have their students write about what just happened in the debate. Alicia Ray: AI was not present for that debate. They can't do that. Alicia Ray: So that's something amazing. If you want to create your own, there you go. You can click on that. Go where you want to go finally. Alicia Ray: academic integrity. Alicia Ray: Any of these images, any of these Logos, are going to take you to the academic integrity surrounding artificial intelligence, the guidance that is coming from these colleges and universities. Okay, you can click on those and see what they, what guidance they are getting when we're talking about academic integrity in the future for our students. They're leading the way right now. Alicia Ray: And actually, if you read them, they're very interesting, because they actually will tell you it's up to the it's up to the instructor. Alicia Ray: If the instructor is confident with it. If they're good with it, then they can do that. Alicia Ray: I also find it very interesting that many of them require students to give approval for teachers to put their papers into any AI detectors. Alicia Ray: because, especially when you get to the master's and doctorate level. Alicia Ray: That is their information. And you're putting it out there. Alicia Ray: That's a big deal right there. Alicia Ray: And so that's something to keep in mind. Go check those out on your free time. It's very interesting, and I would even bet that you could pull some of that lingo from some of the verbiage from these different universities and use those at your school. Alicia Ray: It's a great conversation to have with policymakers as well. Alicia Ray: So, finally, what if we're just talking about classroom level. Alicia Ray: Your district is okay with you using it. You're not sure what you want to do. You can actually have kids. This is from Matt Miller. Alicia Ray: AI. For educators. Incredible human being! I really hope he's coming back to Nc. Ties again this year. Erin Alicia Ray: can't remember. I don't know but I love him. Alicia Ray: He's so awesome. But he may be insanely busy because he's always everywhere. Alicia Ray: But Matt Miller is the ditch. That textbook Guy. So he created this really nice scale for us here, where you can have students decide, or you, as the teacher can decide, where is my line going to be today, and that line can shift depending on your assignment. Alicia Ray: There may be a time where I do want AI to write all my content for my students, and then I want my students to go and evaluate that content. Alicia Ray: I very well might want that, but they're also sub plans. Preach, girl. Yes, and there may also be a time where I'm like, Nope. Alicia Ray: I don't even want you on your computers. Close your computers. Alicia Ray: That's okay, too. Alicia Ray: If you feel like that set of 10 is too much or 12. That's 12. Now, if you feel like that set of 12 is too much, you can go check out his set of 6 that he has. You can click on that link. It's going to take you straight. Click on the image. It takes you straight to his blog post Alicia Ray: Matt has also given us, because he is incredible. He has given us a blank template that we can go in and fill out Alicia Ray: if 12 fills too much. Lower it to 6. If 6 fills too much, lower it to 4 GI wonder what 4 you could use? Alicia Ray: Reflect back on our cats and dogs. Right? It's a starting point. No, AI, AI for brainstorming, AI for editing and all. AI, Alicia Ray: you can make those your 4. And just basically say, this is where our AI is going to be today. Alicia Ray: So we have covered very quickly our session checklist. I'm only a minute over. I am super proud of myself. There's my contact information again. If you need me for anything, please feel free to reach out. I am exhausted, but I absolutely love talking to other teachers. So it helps me to regenerate myself at the end. Here are your resources. So Alicia Ray: anything we've covered. It's just a 1 pager that has all of your links and everything right there Alicia Ray: and then. Finally, here's a video for how to create those rooms in magic student from our opening session. Alicia Ray: Alright. So thank you guys so much for being here. I hope you all have an amazing evening. Go, put on your pajamas. If you're not already in them.