Economists have been exploring how we make decisions, how we act individually and in groups, how we exchange value. They've studied the institutions like legal systems, corporations, marketplaces. But there is a new, that will fundamentally change and it's called the blockchain. Now, that's a pretty bold statement, but if you take nothing else I actually want you to remember that while blockchain technology it's also a continuation and the story is this. As humans, we find ways to lower uncertainty about one another so that we can exchange value. Now, one of the first people of institutions as a tool in economics to lower our uncertainties and be able to do trade was the Nobel economist Douglass North. He passed away at the end of 2015, but North pioneered what's called And what he meant by institutions like a constitution, and informal constraints, like bribery. These institutions are really the grease that allow our economic and we can see this play out If we think back to when we were we really just traded We had some informal constraints in place, but we enforced or social repercussions. As our societies grew more complex and our trade routes grew more distant, we built up more formal institutions, institutions like banks for currency, governments, corporations. These institutions as the uncertainty and our personal control was much lower. Eventually with the internet, We built platform marketplaces just faster institutions to facilitate human economic activity. As Douglass North saw it, institutions are a tool so that we can connect and exchange And I believe we are now entering a further and radical evolution of how we interact and trade, because for the first time, not just with political like our banks, our corporations, but we can do it with technology alone. So what is the blockchain? Blockchain technology that stores a registry across a peer-to-peer network. It's basically a public registry of who owns what and who transacts what. The transactions are secured and over time, that transaction history that are then cryptographically This creates an immutable, of all of the transactions This record is replicated It's not an app. It's not a company. I think it's closest in description We can see everything on Wikipedia. It's a composite view that's constantly We can also track those changes and we can create our own wikis, because at their core, On Wikipedia, it's an open platform and the changes to that data over time. On the blockchain, you can think of it that stores many kinds of assets. It stores the history of custodianship, ownership and location for assets like other digital assets like a title of ownership of IP. It could be a certificate, a contract, real world objects, even personal identifiable information. There are of course other but at its core, that's how it works. It's this public registry and is replicated so that it's very secure Which brings me to my point of how blockchains lower uncertainty and how they therefore promise in radical ways. So uncertainty is kind of a big term in economics, but I want to go through three forms of it that we face in almost all where blockchains can play a role. We face uncertainties not having visibility into a transaction and not having recourse So let's take the first example, Say I want to buy The first thing I'm going to do Are they a power user? Do they have great reviews and ratings, Reviews, ratings, checkmarks: these are the attestations that we cobble together today and use to lower uncertainty But the problem is Think about how many profiles you have. Blockchains allow for us on which to store any attestation from any source. This allows us to create a user-controlled portable identity. More than a profile, it means you can selectively reveal the different attributes about you that help facilitate trade or interaction, for instance that a government or that you're over 21, by revealing the cryptographic proof that these details exist Having this kind of portable identity around the physical world means we can do all kinds of human trade in a totally new way. So I've talked about how blockchains in who we're dealing with. The second uncertainty that we often face is just not having transparency Say you're going to send me I want some degree of transparency. I want to know that the product I bought and that there's some record This is true not just but for many kinds of goods and data, things like medicine, luxury goods, any kind of data or product The problem in many companies, especially those that produce is they're managing across a horizontal supply chain. All of these people they don't have the same database. They don't use the same infrastructure, and so it becomes really hard to see Using the blockchain, we can create a shared reality By this I mean all of these nodes in the network or trust each other, because they each have the ability to monitor and validate Think back to Wikipedia. It's a shared database, and even though it has multiple readers and multiple writers at the same time, it has one single truth. So we can create that using blockchains. We can create a decentralized database without actually creating So all of these vendors, can interact using the same database It means for consumers, As a real-world object travels along, we can see its digital certificate adding value as it goes. This is a whole new world So I've talked about how blockchains and how they change in long distances and complex trades, The last uncertainty that we often face is one of the most open-ended, What if you don't send me the smartphone? Can I get my money back? Blockchains allow us to write code, binding contracts, between individuals and then guarantee without a third party enforcer. So if we look at the smartphone example, You are financing that phone, but you don't need to release the funds until you can verify You got the phone. I think this is one that blockchains lower our uncertainties, because it means to some degree we can collapse institutions It means a lot of human economic activity can get collateralized and automated, and push a lot of human the places where information moves I think what would probably about this use of technology is the fact that the very thing the very thing that keeps the blockchain is our mutual distrust. So rather than all of our uncertainties slowing us down and requiring institutions like banks, our governments, we can actually harness and use it to collaborate and exchange Now, I don't want you that the blockchain even though the media has said it's also going to solve and potentially save the rainforest. The truth is, this technology and we're going to need to see and probably fail before we truly understand for our economy. But there are tons of people from financial institutions to technology companies, And one of the reasons is It's also an innovation Blockchains give us of creating a record of human exchange, of exchange of currency, of all kinds of digital even of our own personal attributes, in a totally new way. So in some ways, they become a technological institution that has a lot of the benefits of the traditional institutions but it does this in a decentralized way. It does this by converting into certainties. So I think we need to start because we are about to face a world where distributed, autonomous institutions have quite a significant role. Thank you. (Applause) Bruno Giussani: Thank you, Bettina. I think I understood that it's coming, it offers a lot of potential, and it's complex. What is your estimate Bettina Warburg: I think My lab is pretty much focused on going the enterprise because in reality, How many of you actually understand But you use it every day, so I think we're sort of facing of technology should either be and blockchain is kind of so it's better suited who kind of get it and can tinker around or for finding those best use cases like identity or asset tracking that can be used at that level BG: Thank you. Thanks for coming to TED. BW: Thanks. (Applause)