This was the biggest apple The new iPhone 11 Hold on. No, not This kind of apple. This is a new variety of apple. The Cosmic Crisp. It's the largest launch of It's the child of the blockbuster apple. In the U.S., apples are a five billion There are more than 7,500 varieties in 2,500 of those are like the Pink Lady, the Honeycrisp and America's favorite, the Gala, Red Delicious variety for Red Delicious had reigned more than apple dethroned it. And yet, scientists are Actually, it's not just apples. There are plant breeders, horticulturalists world working to perfect and Whether it be apples or berries, wheat. And this innovation isn't That's short for In fact, crops have been cross-bred hundreds of years. Plants naturally cross-pollinate, which Here in the U.S. are breeding State University that is responsible for work it took to create and natural means. Here's how we invent The first masters of biotechnology date years ago to the Neolithic period adoption of farming and agriculture It was then that humans isolated planted them to domesticate certain independently in different regions all over of plants. But the modern apple we Kazakhstan during the Bronze Age For millions of years, bears chose over the smaller, bitter apples. Then through bear droppings that contain called germination, more fruit trees grew apple we know today. By the first millennium BCE, apples agriculture. The ancient way of doing and you'd get variation. Fast forward a few thousand years 1700s, nearly 100 years after the pioneers were encouraged In 1806, Jonathon Chapman, well, you Appleseed, distributed apple seeds from Virginia. And this helped America's apple of the country. When an apple seed into the same variety of apple of It entirely depends on pollination. Each plant inherits half of its DNA and half from the tree So when new apple seeds were pollinated by who knows what, thousands market. If you planted a seed from get a Cosmic Crisp tree. You would get a tree that was, from Cosmic Crisp, but fifty percent actually pollenize the flower that In 1905, f ruit growers hundreds of thousands In this screening of the open varieties we still see today, Delicious and the McIntosh. This starts with understanding that the tree a composite tree made up from two That means it's made up It has the top part That's the scion variety. And then the bottom You can have, for example, a rootstock whatever scion variety you would bud or grow into a really big tree. Grafting is a process where plant to another and then And this technique dates back It's even mentioned in the bible. Grafting, you'll take a Okay, technical term, but it's You'll cut the bottom perhaps into a of shape on top You literally can just push the two hold. And then the vascular tissues you get this new tree growing This technique is also That's when scientists make identical The Cosmic Crisp was made by as hybridization. Evans is part of State University that developed Fundamentally, you're taking pollen from one our case and then using that pollen parent. Simple process. It's just controlled pollination, so happening out there all the time But the pollen that's used on With ours, we're using this pollen we've chosen to give us that with the characteristics that From their plant breeders germinate that came out of One of the Cosmic Crisp's Honeycrisp has got this ultra-crisp seen very much until And for some reason, Honeycrisp caught changed the whole apple industry because liked it so much they'd pay two apples. The other parent apple is heard of that one, it's because Indiana. This is Jules Janick. He's a horticulturalist and professor Indiana. You can probably call him apple. We developed Kate Evans made many crosses and one crossing Enterprise, which is a scab-resistant to Honeycrisp. As breeders mashup between two parents generates It's kind of like how siblings share but have different characteristics. And that's because you've inherited But it segregates, it all mixes up. So what we're using is breeders were mixing up off of genes to then enable best individual. The process of identifying a great It takes two or three years So they keep replanting it and testing as they think it is. The Washington State University breeders that would appeal to both So, for example, when it came became the Cosmic Crisp, its tastiness forefront. It's slow to brown, so you window. It's just so To test this, we left out two looked like after 16 hours. A lot of people ask us all must and no, it's not. A GMO is a It's a plant or animal that which is a manipulation of an eliminating or rearranging specific genes molecular biology, or at least that's countries like the United States. Technically, something that has been through traditional methods too, However, the GMO technology that's in 1973. Scientist Herbert Boyer and Stanley successful organism by cutting out a pasting it into another. This technique is known However, the first food genetic modification from years of testing later, Calgene's as the first food crop to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The tomato stays riper longer they say it's tastier. These tomatoes were modified to be life. And now that the FDA shipped.. But getting consumers on board genes proved difficult. Still, just the thought of juggling tomato people. When the Flavr Savr first hit high, but by 1998, sales sharply changed and the Flavr Savr tomato high production and According to The Non-GMO Project, the safety of GMO. Even Chipotle has indicated on their non-GMO, as part of their And they were the first restaurant But those in favor of the technology food more aesthetically pleasing, easier make food more nutritious. Unfortunately, people are People are afraid. It's just a fear don't want any in their mouth It's an irrational fear and I might the 19th century, people were afraid wasn't natural. So the question unnatural. New innovations now allow living organism's entire Then there's CRISPR-Cas9, which is interspersed short The way it works is kind of like using the find tool to locate a word. CRISPR enables you to change many other natural variations. So in a fruit or vegetable have a mother and a father and but what happens if you could actually and not have to go through CRISPR has seen its ethical in human science. In November 2018, a Chinese scientist editing technology on twin girls infected with the AIDS virus. CRISPR was used on embryos, disabling HIV to enter a cell. But the approach restricted and much of Europe China sentenced him to Scientists are using CRISPR on the mushrooms from browning or to make disease that is killing citrus One startup, Pairwise, is currently without a pit and to These natural breeding process take The one example I can give That's a natural genetic variation. Well, we're working on using that those grapes and create a What pairwise is doing is essentially happen naturally anyway. It would just take years And it's generally mimicking something done. We're only working on things breeding, but could be much faster. Apples are 2.5 billion dollar a year business in percent of the nation's supply But these growers can't just Turns out, many New varieties are trademarked, patented brand. Some of these Growers are paying somewhere around acre to plant a branded variety. Any branded of variety, any apple. Owning the intellectual property rights to started in the mid 20th century patented as a way to compensate growers develop them. Most breeders would patent U.S. The Cosmic Crisp is a new Proprietary Variety Management, where Grandy marketing. We are trademarked in and we have a few partners the trademarks. And so the patent its name, W-A 38. Washington State University Washington State has a 10-year exclusive Crisp, and that's because the with growers in the state. Growers then have a license to produce license enables them to sell their brand. The license actually comes trees through the nursery. Most growers will still purchase trees, finished trees. For growers, it can be growing a new variety. For a grower to make that investment, confident that it's the direction Why the growers do it? Growers do it because Some argue that the future of technology. CRISPR technology, gene-editing, is something an individual gene and that is Baker says growers have a Growers are generally excited about farming easier. Just like consumers anything that makes We're working on making fruits available and more affordable. Regardless of whether the fruit was in a breeding program, many say there for new products. And new produce means higher price mean a better profit for growers. Growers obviously are interested in growing hope to be able to get