- So in today's video, I'm going That's right, I'm going to try to explain jazz theory in one video. So I've broken this lesson First of all, chords, and last of all, scales. So these are three of the These are the main topics So by the end of this lesson, you're going to walk away in your understanding of jazz. Now, we've got a lot to cover, so we're gonna get straight in. Enjoy the video. (gentle jazz music) So first of all, let's Now, chords in jazz go a lot higher than in other styles of music. So in most styles of music, you'll only encounter three-note chords. These are known as triads. So you'll play the root, the third, and the fifth, and you can get different types of chord within just these three notes. So you can get a major an augmented chord, However, in jazz, we build so instead of just (piano music) We'll go up and add another which gives us the seventh, and all of these numbers are numbered from the root of the chord, so if this is a C chord, then this is one. We call this the root. So, one, three, five, seven. And that's why all chord extensions are generally odd numbers, which means we're One, three, five, seven. Then we can go up to the ninth. We can even go up to the 11th, and we can even go up to the 13th. And 13 is pretty much the biggest number you'll see in a chord, because if you go up a third from 13, then you come back to the root, so there's never a 15 in jazz. It's always seventh chords, ninth chords, 11th chords, and 13th chords. (jazz music) So now let's get specific and look at the actual There's different types of seventh chord. They all are based on the same idea. They have a root, third, but we can create different by making different combinations of the major third and the minor third. So, we're gonna go through to begin with. First of all, we have This is C major seven, so if you just imagine the (piano music) And you just play the root, then you get a major seven chord. Next, let's look look at (piano music) This is C minor seven, and if you just imagine a (piano music) and you just play the root, third, fifth and seventh of that scale, well, you end up playing (piano music) And next we have the dominant seven chord. Here is C dominant seven. (piano music) So it's basically a major (piano music) So those are the three most common types of seventh chord in jazz. I would say about 90% of jazz music is built of just these (piano music) Again, the major seven chord, the minor seven chord, and the dominant seven chord, and they're all just of major thirds and minor thirds. (piano music) Now above any type of seventh chord, you can add what's known and these are the ninth, which we mentioned just a moment ago. So for the chord below, the root third, fifth and seventh are known as chordal tones, chord tones, the root, third, fifth and seventh, whatever type of chord it is, minor seven, dominant seven, et cetera. But above these, you can add a chord extension, like or the 13th, or all three. You get all sorts of big chords like this. So how do you find the Well, regardless of what whether it's a major seven chord, minor seven chord or a the chord extensions are always So you imagine a major scale so this is a C chord. Doesn't matter what chord type it is. We're just gonna imagine a major scale starting from the root. And you're going to find based on that major scale. So the ninth, is really the same note so they're one, two. The 11th is the same as the fourth, so three, four, that's our 11th. And the 13th is the same as So even if it's a minor seven chord, let's take a C minor seven chord here. (piano music) If it tells you to add you would still imagine C major (piano music) It's gonna be the same ninth, as if it was a major seven This is the natural and the natural 13th, and they're all built (piano music) Now the extended harmony Which means they can be So you won't always just see nine, 11, 13. Sometimes you'll see flat nine, sharp nine, you'll see sharp 11, and sometimes you'll see flat 13. So, how do you find an Well, let's say the chord symbol says C dominant seven, flat nine. Well, we're gonna start by finding the natural extension first and we just imagine the major scale. So C major scale, is gonna be D natural, and then you flatten it. And that's your chord Or if it said sharp nine, again you find the natural nine (piano music) Or if it said C seven sharp 11, where you find the natural 11 first, so run up the major scale to the fourth, which is the 11th and then sharpen it. And the same if it were flat 13, let's say. Find the natural 13 first by (piano music) And then flatten it. That's where you get these nice... (piano music) chords with altered extensions. Things like the flat nine, sharp nine, sharp 11, and flat 13. (piano music) Now before we move onto the next topic, I've actually notated a chord symbol reference guide for you. You can download that for And you'll get my one page all of the common types of 11th chord and 13th chord. (piano music) So now a quick word on chord voicings. So there's many different any chord in jazz. So if we just take a look (piano music) This C major seventh chord, So if you imagine a group of (piano music) while each note is a We can redistribute these and add a few notes in, and do all sorts of things These are called chord voicings. So just to demonstrate, we can play this which is a literal voicing. You're playing literally Then there's more sophisticated voicings like fourth voicings. It's just a stack of fourths, using notes from C major scale. (piano music) (piano music) Where we're using mostly fifths. (piano music) And this is still considered And really, the list goes on. There's all sorts of possibilities... (piano music) So now let's talk about So, every start of music has it's own characteristic chord progressions. So classical music has it's type progressions. We have pop music which has you might have heard of. Well, jazz is the same. We have what what's known as the two-five-one chord progression. Now there's two types of two-five-one, there's a major two-five-one Let's start by looking because this is far more common. So let's demonstrate a major two-five-one in the scale of C major. (piano music) So this gonna be a set of three chords that are gonna be built from the notes of C major scale and the two, five and one refers to which scale degree So the two chord is going to be built from the second note of the scale. (piano music) And we're just going to up to the seventh using notes from C major scale, which is all the white notes. And this gives us what type of chord? This is a D chord, this is D minor seven. Next we're going to find the five chord, so we're gonna find One, two, three, four, And we're going to do the same thing, let's build a stack of thirds up from G using notes of C major scale. (piano music) And this is a dominant seven And then let's find the one chord. It's gonna be built from the root. And we're gonna build a stack of thirds using notes of C major (piano music) And what type of chord is this? (piano music) That's right, that's a major seven chord. So three different types of chord, minor seven chord, dominant seven chord, and a major seven chord. And they're built from the two, the five and the one of the scale. So that's why it's called a two-five-one. Now a very distinctive is the bass line, which sounds like this. You hear this pattern It's the two, going up which goes down a fifth to the root. (piano music) You hear this all the time. So most of jazz is built off this major two-five-one chord progression. And that's why most of the in a real book or a lead sheet are going to be these three chord types. It's the minor seven chord, and a major seven chord. (gentle piano music) Now in jazz you don't always Sometimes you do, which is But sometimes the composer So a good example would be &quot;Satin Doll.&quot; (jazzy piano music) Here we have a D minor seven, (piano music) But you don't get the one chord, which You just get two-five-two-five and then he modulates to a different key. And we have an E minor seven chord. (piano music) Going to an A dominant seven. What's that? Well, that's another (piano music) If E minor seven is the two chord, and A dominant seven is the five chord, then we're gonna be in the key of D major. So this is another two-five. And sometimes you get a five-one. So you don't always get the two chord, sometimes you just get the five-one. An example would be (jazzy piano music) We have a C dominant seven to an F major seven chord. Well, what's that? That's a five-one progression in F major. But we don't have the two chord here, which would be G minor seven, we don't get the two chord, (piano music) And to end the section let's talk about the minor two-five-one, which is much less common I would say that only are the minor two-five-one. But let's demonstrate in C minor. So the concept is the same. We're gonna have three the five and the one. But instead of building we're going to build from (piano music) Normal minor scale up to the but then we have a major seventh. So really this is just except it has a major seventh. (piano music) And let's see what three chords we get. So let's find the two chord. (piano music) Gonna build a stack of thirds upwards, using the notes of C We're gonna do an F, we're (piano music) And this introduces a which we haven't look at yet. And this is called the although it's sometimes also called a minor seventh chord flat five. (piano music) Now let's find the five chord. (piano music) Let's build a stack of thirds using notes from C harmonic minor. Remember we have that We have a D natural and an F. And what type of chord is this? Well this is the same that you get in the major two-five-one, so nothing's new here. And finally let's find the one chord, we're going to get a minor and then we're going to get And here we get another which we haven't looked at yet. (piano music) This is called C minor-major seven. C minor-major seven. Now you've heard the minor two-five-one in songs like &quot;Blue Bossa.&quot; (jazzy piano music) So that was a minor that we're already in of C minor. D half-diminished, G dominant seven, going to C minor-major seven. And sometimes with the minor two-five-one, the one chord gets tweaked. It's not always played as sometimes the composer will So he might do D half-diminished, going to C minor seven. And this is done because it's As a composer you don't always want this sort of intense sound of It's quite an intense chord and sometimes composers will tweak it and make it a minor seven chord. (piano music) And finally for today, So as a jazz musician it's what scale to play from This is gonna be useful or if you're composing a melody. Well, you need to know when you're playing any chord. So the first key principle is to make sure that the scale you use agrees on the chordal tones of the chord. So if you have a C major seven chord... (piano music) That means that your scale has to have a C, an E, a G and a B natural. And it's not going to work (out of tune piano music) Or any notes that disagree So if it's a major seven chord, root third, fifth and seventh. If it's a minor seven chord, same thing. But tweak them to this type of chord. And if it's a dominant seven chord, make sure you have your chordal tones. Now, when it comes to the remaining notes, the two, four and six. You actually have some freedom here. You can tweak them different ways and it will generally sound As long as there's no clash However, I'm gonna share that you can follow, or an intermediate jazz pianist. And that is the chordal tone This is just one method which scale to play over any chord type. So let's say we have C major seven. You're gonna start with the chordal tones. The root, the major third, the fifth and the major seventh. And then we're going to add a whole step to the root, third and fifth. So C, up a whole step, gives gives us F sharp a And G, up a whole step, gives (piano music) And we end up playing, what's called C Lydian scale. So over the major seven chords (piano music) Whatever the chord is, If it's a minor seven chord, C minor seven, same thing. Chordal tones first... then we'll add a whole step Gives us D natural, E flat up a whole step gives us F natural, and G (piano music) And that gives us C Dorian scale. (piano music) So we can play the Dorian And last of all, let's look chordal tones first... We have to have these in Then let's add a whole step (piano music) Gives us D natural, E up a the sharp four, and G up (piano music) And we end up playing this that's called the Lydian-Dominant scale. This is C Lydian-Dominant scale. (piano music) Now, one of the most confusing is all of the different We have seventh chords, So to help you with this, I've put together a chord You can download it for And I've just notated all which you encounter as a jazz pianist. And this is just gonna