(gentle music) The Krispy Kreme donut machine. Want to see how it works? Let's take a look at and each step of the (gentle music) (music builds) The donut has its origins The shape of the donut is because they learned that the donut cooks a lot more evenly. There are a lot of good donuts out there, but the one I'll be focusing on today is the Krispy Kreme donut. The first Krispy Kreme by a man named Vernon Rudolph. This was in Winston-Salem, North Carolina in the United States. As of the year 2024, they have over 350 locations and they've now expanded to more than 30 different countries. This store is what's Let's take a look inside. They make the donuts on this giant machine and plenty of the donuts are sold and eaten right here in the store. Some of the donuts, and shipped to local grocery stores and gas stations nearby, so you can get your donuts elsewhere, but my favorite place where they're made, and is that they have this giant glass wall that lets you see the entire process. But it wasn't always done this way. At first, making the Krispy Kreme donuts was a bit more of a manual process, and I'm sure it took a lot of work. Back in 1937, it was just a small factory and then ship them out to but people on the street and kept stopping by. As the story goes, they to serve the donuts This was an instant success. The challenge now was to serve the growing number of customers. They invented a machine in the 1950s called the Krispy It could make the donuts almost by itself. The ingredients are mixed in here, and then the dough comes and it's already in the shape of a donut. At just the right time, the to cook on the other side. Then they are brought This tiny machine could churn It's a big part of the was so successful in the early days. Another benefit is that the donuts were also made consistently of Krispy Kreme locations. Starting in the 1960s, the process and expanded quite a bit. The machine today is a lot more efficient and modernized with computers. It can churn out up to From the start of the process it takes about an hour to Think about all the Krispy making donuts every day. That's a lot of donuts. I mean a lot. I hope you're hungry. The donuts are usually made twice per day, once in the morning and but each store might do On the outside of the store, which lets you know when the machine is making hot donuts Normally, you can watch but for this animation, we're gonna get even closer Here's an overview of the mixer, the extruder, the proofer, the fryer, the retail curve, and the cooling tunnel. There's a lot of different parts here. We'll go through this step by step. Let's start at the very at the back of the store. First, the ingredients for the donuts. They come in these massive to each Krispy Kreme factory store. This is combined into the mixer, along with water and The temperature needs to This is the job of the This is the hopper. The dough will go in A worker will come over The dough needs to sit in Right above is the crane. This will come down and then position it and the dough falls right in. Now, the extruder is proprietary, which means that Krispy the exact details on how it works, but we at least have a rough idea. After the lid is firmly closed, air pressure is used to squeeze the dough out of the bottom already Notice how there is no need It's already shaped that way. The donut rings fall onto a Next, the donuts need to rise. That happens in a large box These donuts go for a very They stay in there for going up and down several times. The chain goes over several Inside the proofer, there is a box which The heat and humidity activates causing the donuts to proof, This is gonna take a while, so let's fast forward a little bit. (comical machine whirring) At the end of the proofer, and now they are ready to cook. For all this time, the flights so the donuts stay on. Watch what happens at the hits the guide pieces on both sides, which causes it to tip (upbeat music) This is the fryer. It is filled with hot oil, which is actually just Another conveyor belt with to slowly keep moving down the line. Not every donut will come out perfect. A worker will need to but since this is animation, let's pretend they're all Down below is the shortening container. This pump on the side up to where the donuts are. There are heating elements to keep it hot so it can cook the donuts. After about 45 seconds, which is partially hidden. This is the part that flips the donut over so it can now cook on the other side After another 45 seconds the donuts are cooked to perfection, and donuts are slowly brought Let me just point out that right underneath the It's like the brains of the machine. The donuts will now have a chance to cool before the next step, which If the donuts are too the glaze won't stick right. This is why it's really important to give the donuts a chance to cool off. Beneath the conveyor We don't know the exact recipe, but you can bet there's sugar in there. The hose pump brings the glaze up and over top of the donuts. (upbeat music) It's really important to through the hose so that there We want all the donuts Excess glaze falls back to then be cycled back The section after the glaze waterfall, this has a tendency to build At the end of the conveyor, it actually goes down into a As the glaze dries, the donuts make their If you're lucky, you can get This is as fresh as they come. Krispy Kreme also carries on the tradition of giving away free when the hot light is on. The rest of the donuts now get a slow ride around to the other side. This is the cooling tunnel. You wouldn't wanna pack the donuts up when they are still warm. The glaze needs to fully harden. A Krispy Kreme worker is They either go into boxes or on trays ready to This type of donut is the the most popular donut. But as we saw earlier, they have quite a few So how are these made? Well, first off, some of with a little bit of extras. After the cooling tunnel, some of these donuts are dipped and don't forget the sprinkles. For some of the donuts, the For example, the sugar donut, this one doesn't have any glaze on it. The ones that have a fruit these don't have a hole in Do you remember the step at the beginning where the dough comes out of the extruder? The machine can be modified, so it makes the donuts without any hole. Besides that, the process (upbeat music) After the cooling tunnel, these donuts are picked up by hand and filled with a special filling. The extruder can also make special shapes depending on the occasion. The other donuts, such as might require a little before being manually Inside the proofer, the speed and temperature depending on the type Some of the donuts don't For these donuts, the proofer so that the donuts can be placed by hand directly into the shortening. This is an incredible machine, but it doesn't just run by itself. Skilled workers have to be there to monitor every step of the way. Settings have to be changed. They can do that right And just in case, they do Hopefully they don't have Right over top of where the donuts cook, they also have the fire If something were to happen, the sprinklers are Imagine designing a machine The engineers had to understand Making donuts may not be your goal, but whatever it is, Brilliant can help. It's a learning platform for math, computer science, Instead of just watching or reading, you get to learn the concepts You learn to think and you get to have a lot Before you know it, you've I like the course called because it covers the including several things in this video. You'll have a deep before the course is through. Brilliant has a lot of different and they come out with The lessons take just a few minutes so you can do them whenever you have time. The idea here is to build the habit so that you learn a little bit every day. Try everything Brilliant for a full 30 days. Visit brilliant.org/jaredowen or click the link in the description. You'll also get 20% off an My name's Jared. I think I'm Thanks for watching. (upbeat music)