I feel a car salesman Hi, this is Rick beato. Welcome to 101. Ear training so what's so important Well if i look at music like this. I know it sounds like this. Being able to do of music without a reference tone. It's great for sight reading, your favorite songs by ear. Okay, what are intervals? An interval is pitches. There are two types of intervals. The That's two notes played simultaneously. notes played separately. Now the smallest interval we use in step. Now intervals are described by two perfect, major, minor, augmented and third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth number of letter names at the interval because it spans five letter names, C D E counting the number of lines and spaces interval is represented by the terms diminished. Perfect intervals, if they're they're lowered by a half step, it becomes Now another feature of perfect intervals perfect intervals. A perfect fifth vice versa. A perfect fourth inverted intervals can become diminished or We'll talk about that more later. Now begin with, but as we get more into chord it will become easier for you to recognition so important to ear training? Well, since intervals of the building recognize them is a key element of hearing when you're listening to a piece Okay, so how do we begin to learn to hear Well I like to start with dyads. A dyad Okay, this would be a dyad. That is a major third interval- the notes What I want you to be able to do is playing. Now, this to many of you would many people find this difficult. My daughter Lennon is not one of them Can you sing these notes baby? Very good about these two? Excellent! Neither is my son Dylan. what are these two notes Dylan? G and D. How about these two? He's another story altogether. Let's back up for a second and talk intervals. In the consonant category countenances. Major and minor thirds In the dissonant category. Minor sevenths and major seconds are called mild dissonances and minor seconds and major 7ths are either characterized as a consonant or function and the tritone which is an either neutral or restless. The first begin hearing are the perfect intervals. They're actually the easiest to identify; perfect eighth. Okay that is a perfect eighth interval interval is the perfect fifth. That is a common interval when we're ok for example a c-major chord the two C and G form a perfect fifth dyad or perfect interval played melodically. Now all minor, sus4, sus2 all have a perfect fifth as interval is a little bit trickier The perfect fourth interval can either be it's used in context. Okay, I'll give you part of a second inversion major triad okay like this is a second inversion F interval and a major third major third (plays interval) Okay, so in that case it's were very stable sounding but if I used to C suspended four, like resolve down. It would have a natural acting as a dissonance. yeah how many of you have ever tuned a guitar I have my A string here - now I'm going the harmonic of the 5th fret of the A Well listen as I get closer. The beating stops. The more in tune you note is perfectly in tune, the beating have less beating. They are very stable. That's why an octave is very stable The next intervals I'd like to move to are the major seventh. Okay, this is a minor second Okay, that is a half step or semi tone. Now, the rub that you hear is the beating of it its characteristic sound. That is a minor second. Okay, this is a you heard it play me play it for Lennon between the two notes and the dissonace recognize it. Okay, mild dissonances, the major second and So why are they mild distances? Well, really fast fluttering between the has fluttering but it's slower. The waves The dissonance is the dissonance is less Same thing between a major seventh, which has the fast beating between intervals and then the minor 7th is a little bit slower. the difference between these two because a major second and a minor 7th are very are the first two notes of a major scale. mmm and yeah that's the sound you're looking for the is the sound of the Star Trek theme. The original one, but you guys probably actually called a major minor 7th chord 7th interval the top. But most people Let's talk about major and minor thirds All right, the major third, in this case C to E are the the first which is the C and then the third which is E and then that perfect fifth interval but this is This determines the quality of the chord. major third are the first two notes- the major third. That sound. There is an F. Here it is in G. back in C. Okay that was major their interval. The are the first two tones in a minor triad. or in the key of F it would be this F and A flat is a minor third. There i You should start to orient yourself with major and minor third. Okay, so how do you hear these sixth C to A. Many people for this interval when I over the Ocean&quot; Okay. S,. a major sixth. I'll play them together. Now the minor sixth interval has a little darker sound. Okay? It wants to instances. Now many people will use a first in order to hear that. If i take A flat I play it in first inversion, meaning flat. Between these two outer notes I have a minor sixth interval. Okay, once again there's your root position there's your first inversion and between these outer voices you have a So if I hear this (sings) That's a good way of hearing that minor you can do a similar thing but you do it Okay? In this case we're going to use F First inversion, meaning with the A as the C is the lowest note. There's your major six interval. bomg bomg, bomg. So remember. With six intervals take your major triads and use the first lowest note, for your minor 6 interval so minor sixth. And with a major triad in which will give you a major 6th interval. Well we saved the best for last the fourth or diminished fifth. Here we have C and F sharp or C and G flat. C to F sharp would be an augmented fourth. C to G flat would be a diminished fifth. This has a natural resolution tendency to In this case, it can resolve like this The C can resolve down to a B and you can also have it resolved in word Okay, the C7 has an E is its third and B to resolve in to the F and A of an F or in that case they contract. Okay, let's talk about the concepts about the sonic signatures of intervals. open or soft consonances. The fourth interval and the restless nature harmonic intervals or dyads. That's all depth talks and analysis of ear Please subscribe to my channel to hear content. I'm Rick Beato.