Hello my dear friends and welcome where the whispers of the trees and It's October now. Summer already surrendered and entered this sleepy I'm still taking one day at a time finding And as you all know life has its challenges and I've come to realize that hard times often of uncertainty there's always a possibility really is a season of change. A time for shedding And now as the darkness so does the light, reminding us that even Hi everyone! So I am out in the forest now to this special place it's actually by a &quot;kalhygge&quot; down all the trees. In a way I really It looks so sad you know but the good thing is A lot of flowers and usually a lot of lingonberries And I have gone here for many years to pick lingonberries a few but you know lingonberry is like the of them. But this year I have searched I guess it's just that kind of year where very late it's the 1st of October and I guess it's late to pick blueberries I guess because it's been of explode or how to say by the cold. But snow has come because they are really resilient, the biggest problem in the world. I have berries will survive. Anyway I think I should give up on and have a coffee because I brought some coffee with bring the right tripod for this camera so if vlog camera on which the quality is, you know, in the way that it shifts from cloudy to sunny professional camera it actually handles the settings for the light all the time. And when it so messy. It's going to be too dark or too light, And it's not all about the quality. Sometimes and you know nowadays I have so much equipment, so And sometimes it becomes like such a big project to be perfect. I remember back in the days, two other lenses so everything fit in a to just run out in the middle of something While today it's like oh where's the batteries I thought about that lately that the quality guys maybe appreciate the quality of my videos really epic scenes and make it really professional of you just want to connect and just feel that it's real I think. That's the most a like a movie, a Hollywood movie, you want to cameras are really good, but I think at least as much and please correct me if I'm wrong. Oh, gosh! The smell of coffee in the forest, that to cry now. I'm really sensitive right now, I puffy eyes today because yesterday I just cried things you know. My life still feels very messy and behind in work and everything. Things have piled to go and lie in bed instead you know. I'm sure you have to do so many things that you lay down. And sometimes that's a good solution bit in what's going on inside of you. Eventually have to kind of rise up and get shit done you rise up and feel better again. And that's it's also hard. Well, cheers for all of you, cheers that comes our way that teaches us everything I just got to restart the recording after a few minutes and I don't want to sit here Also, honestly before I put up this camera here I one of these days when I have to push myself to I don't know what's going on with me now I struggle with everything that I do and I guess about it's just life. It's going to be better I don't feel that natural creative flow Just as I did with my previous video. And yeah, much for your supportive comments on my previous really try to read all the comments. I think want you to know that I'm so grateful that my videos and that you understand that it's going to take a longer time before I that I've come past this quiet time. I really it just still feels very hard. But yeah, So it's the 1st of October and there is a lot of of work related things that are really fun and that the store or the gallery that we've built for is done, it's not opened yet. But the whole I mean, I have kept you a little bit away from this I have not filmed anything and showed you. I turned into just what I wanted, a space store or gallery or whatever, I don't have the like a store. I feel like it's a mix of a store, an I want it to be. It's a place where we will showcase I guess a place to, how to say, a physical space. I online but this is a physical place where people It's hard to describe, I will think of something later. But it really turned into such a magical true. I have still not understood that this is that it would be and it's magical when you place among the mountains or maybe stepping into some sort if you can understand. It's just magical this, but I will eventually. I think we're going not open this year because of things taking own private life messing things up. So we in the spring if nothing strange happens. You want to put deadlines on things. I never like to release something when I'm ready. And I don't like and soul into it. Because I know that takes time to hurry to open it just because you want to open it's done but it's not opened yet. Now it's my Now the build is done, now I'm going to fill it to see. I mean I guess not all of you are going in your life. I know a lot of you live far, far in this area I hope you will come and visit. that's been going on lately and it feels so there's just a lot of work ahead with things. ever album. It's going to be both as a vinyl and a will share more about this soon. We also have a lot me and my mom has been working on for a long year I think. It's always a long, long that you can sell, but soon they are ready. And really more things created from the heart. It's going to come rain any moment. So I think I'm going going to start editing this video. This will also kind of all I can handle right now. But that's commenting and sharing that you do appreciate and it makes it more easy for me to know that and put up. In a near future I will feel full of as usual. But it's so nice to know that right now energy and low on creativity that it's still okay So yeah, I want you to know that I really, really Now it's starting to get a little bit chilly but outside like this. Probably in a month there will here. If you want to share anything, if you have time in your life of how you did to kind of rise inspiration back or you know anything. Or if you in life right now. If you want to share something free to share because I know it helps others too. section on this YouTube channel, that shares something there's always people answering say congratulations. Or if someone is having a people are you know saying sorry for your loss or thing you know. It's things like that that just Thank you so much for watching this video I love you! Bye bye!