Luxury cousins of the mushroom, truffles are an indulgent But these fragrant fungi will cost you. In 2014, the world's largest to New York accompanied and sold at auction for $61,000. Discovered in Italy, this gigantic fungus weighed almost 2 kilos. So, what is it that There are a lot of types of truffle. There are at least 40 species, and new species have been You've probably seen in supermarkets or fancy restaurants, but the unique truffle might not be real truffle at all. Cheap truffle oil often hasn't been anywhere near a real truffle. Many cheaper truffle products a synthesized compound containing one of the main aromatic guaranteed to give it that &quot;earthy&quot; taste. Real truffles are seasonal and pricey, with a short shelf life. They were originally sniffed but while pigs are very they're also very good And these days, dogs are much more common truffle-hunting companions. These fungi can be found across the world, but they all require a very While different varieties may have somewhat different requirements, You can't have truffles without trees. James Feaver: Truffles are and they have to be the Under the ground, the truffle so an equivalent to an apple. And we've also got a the mycelium, microscopic-level threads, and up to 100 meters And this mycelium is actually of a tree like the fingers And it sort of extends And it actually takes and passes them to the tree, in return, so to help the Narrator: Even when you have truffles aren't guaranteed, and hunting them is a Once you know where to and dig up each truffle by hand, and they can be tricky to find. Feaver: Good boy, thank So he just told us there So do I want to take it It all depends on if it's ripe. If it's unripe, there's So the nose comes into play. And we actually sniff the ground for it. Narrator: It may take a while, but finding a good one can Feaver: Yeah, that's a nice one. Yeah, that's probably about 70, 80 grams. Narrator: Truffles also often appearing for only And even when you do they don't last for long. Feaver: An unripe which you could cut from the vine and ripen on your windowsill, once the truffle is out of the So it's just sort of slowly So we want to get it out to Narrator: After just five that pungent truffle You can farm many truffle varieties, besides the rare Italian whites. Many people have been successful in setting up truffle Trees need to be planted in inoculated with truffle fungus, and often irrigated constantly. It can take as long as six years before you get a good truffle harvest, and there's no guarantee that So after all that effort, what Ju Shardlow: Ooh. Claudia Romeo: Hm. Leon Siciliano: The it was gonna be really strong. The flavor is actually quite subtle. There's a nuttiness there. There's, like, an earthy flavor there. Ju: Actually quite light and fragrant. It tastes a lot nicer than it smells. It smells like damp socks. Claudia: That's good. I mean, this is the first a truffle by itself. You know, it's a bit like mushroom, but it's more of a meaty, meaty bite. Narrator: These days, as our primary source of truffles, and today, 70% of the world's Through the loss of the number of wild truffles Since the 19th century, from over 1,000 tonnes a And climate change could mean altogether in the future. Feaver: The weather not just immediately, We're getting much lower numbers and much lower average size. A truffle is about 70% water, so it needs rainfall to help it grow. Some UK truffle scientists are thinking that your traditional areas, the climate is gonna move further north, and they're not gonna within I think perhaps 50 years. There's threats, there's opportunities, but rain, we do need rain. When we get a dry summer, the holidaymakers, they're delighted, but I keep crossing my fingers for a bit of rain every now and again.