- It's always nice, you know, to sit with the family for dinner, especially in the middle of the week when things are getting And what better than to sit a real winter type of And that's what we're going to do today. I have a beautiful cabbage. Those are the Savoy cabbage, you know, with curly leaves. You can use the regular I have onion. I have scallion. You could use leek. Potato, of course. And we're going to flavor And I have a sausage meat, which is, you can buy that at the market, just buy your sausage and break them into pieces like this. Of course, the sausage are more calorie, there is no question about it. And if you want to cut down a little bit, you can maybe cut down on half. I have eight ounce of sausage here. Put only half of it, or, you can even eliminate it if Another thing that you can which is really what the You know, if you have a roast, a piece of something left over, that's what you, cut it into pieces, so the meat in a sense here become like a flavoring agent, you know, rather than too much meat. And as I said, this one So what we're going to the potato, as you see, after they've been washed so that they don't discolor and we can put them in (knife chopping) they're going to work chunky type of soup I love potato, of course, Potato are very good for you. You know, people think that They are relatively small in calorie, unless you cover them, of course, with butter, oil, and so forth. And very high in potassium. People always think potassium, banana. Well, your potato is almost you know, in potassium. So, use potato. Here we are here, the onion. Maybe a bit more onion. Onion is very good for you, too. And the scallion. Now, that scallion here, I cut the end of it. You see the root and maybe the first leaf. If this, you think, is a bit cut the end of it. And this is it. Now, we want to cut that coarsely. And all of that is We can start with this. The potato, the scallion. I should probably cook my I want to cook it a bit longer so that all the fat is rendered and it's nice and kind of crunchy and crisp, you know? So this is-you can saute your Then our cabbage. You can use even the core This sometimes is a bit if I cook it a long time, I may cut the end of it, but this, cut it into smaller but use it. You see, the cruciferous vegetable, the cabbage, is very good. All the cruciferous vegetables is very good for the intestine, All of those type of cabbage family from cauliflowers to cabbage, to broccoli di rapa and so forth. As you can see, this If you want to put stock in it, you can, but it's really not necessary. What we are going to You have plenty taste with everything you need. A little type of thing you can do ahead. The more you reheat it, And use your leftovers here. A dash of salt- take into consideration that so you may want to put a bit less. Bring that to a boil. This has to cook for a And I have one here, which has been cooking, as you can see, and I'm going to ladle it in there. So all you would want to do, leave it chunky like this, you know, sometimes if you want to but this is my favorite, when it's in that shape, you know? You have your few croutons around this and maybe a couple of if you want to put, for more green, and this is it. I'm going to do a recipe now using ice. Ice and turkey. And it is a recipe that my wife, or a variation of what I thought interesting. I have some ice here, but first, of course, I want to cook some vegetable. We're going to mix in a type of patty, you know, and I have shredded carrot here. I have half a cup of water no salt or anything, and I'm going to put that to cook and I will keep the juice which comes out of those vegetables. So that should cook for just to get it a little soft, and I'm going to put spinach with this. I have a bunch of spinach here. It's nice and cleaned, with And I'm going to cut they may be a bit too large to Okay. So this, this should really cook one or two minute to soften the carrot. I cook those carrot with one of those things that you, you shred cheese with it, on the- you can do it very thin, actually, you can take a vegetable peeler and take little strip out of it and do the same effect. So after it cooked for like a minute, then I put my spinach, and that again, the spinach That will give me, you know, the spinach, all of those are good vegetable, good for your nutrition to, to mixed into the meat, and it give a lot of color to it. Not only taste, color, it's good for you. So let that cook a couple of minute more just to get it wilted. And what I'm going to do is to mix this with the turkey here. As you can see, I have ground turkey, and that ground turkey, very, very lean because here we're talking and putting an egg in it. And I'm putting ice. Usually when you do that type of thing that we call a mousse, you know, we emulsify that in a processor, we put cream in it. I'm not putting cream, I'm putting ice here. What is the reason of ice, you know? The reason of ice will Have you ever heard of a I always ask people and they always say, &quot;No, I've never had it.&quot; Yes, most people have had it. We call that frankfurter here. And your frankfurter, you know, is made with ground beef and ice in it. If you didn't put ice in your frankfurter, then they would be hard, you know, like a meatball without anything in it, just a plain meat. The ice make it nice, And, of course, there is no calorie. Why ice? Because it has to be cold. It is the albumin, which and the albumin need to be cold. If it gets warm, then the So now this is cooked enough. I'm gonna put this in there and press it a little bit, because, remember, I have and that half a cup of liquid, I want to use it in my sauce later. The vegetable should be cold, you know, so what I'm going to do is Usually you would do that ahead. I want to spread them out when they get into the patty. You can put them in the but here I don't have time, so I'm not going to do that. And what I will do, however, is to start that skillet So this will come right here. And now, let's do our patty. In a food processor, of The ice is there. What you want to do, I want to crush the ice. (ice crunching) I put it into a, a plastic bag here and you don't have to crush the ice, but basically, you may damage so, this is why I crushed it. The turkey, I have, I have no seasoning in it. And as I said, this is a very, and turkey is good for that. The ice. I mean, I have about, in the recipe, four, five tablespoon of ice here. And we emulsify it together. The ice being very cold, it will tighten the meat, make it cold and make the (food processor whirring) Okay, we'll let it turn. Then add the eggs. A bit of salt and pepper. (food processor continues whirring) a lot of ground pepper. You know, noting that I the salt, sodium, will tighten the albumin and tighten the mixture. When you do any type of mousse, the salt should go at the end. It's very good, too. So what I'll do here and I can see that it's very elastic. That is a good mixture. That mixture, I could do what which are little dumpling, and I could do little dumpling, and those dumpling, put them in a soup, or do them one thing or another with it. I could do a type of Here we are. Very lean. And I can see, just the tell me that it's pretty good. The texture is elastic, you know? Okay. However, here I should really have this colder than what it is. It's not particularly What I would do, also, get a little more of the juice out of it. I don't want to dilute that too much. Remember, I'm keeping all of that juice. I have all the vitamin, I'm keeping that to put in the sauce. So here we are, here. Mixing that together. This I can keep, and that will go. Now, I did that for four, and this is four kind of generous portion. You can see, I have a You know, the color of the vegetable and so this will go well with it. Okay. And then, we form our patty here. And the patty, you can form them by hand. You can even use little or plastic, if you want to and form there into a Just like that. Or, just do it by hand. See, this is not going to So, we have four patty that you do here. Be sure after that, to wash your hand, because we are dealing with poultry here. And I think it's a good See, I have four, quite large- I had a pound, so that gave me four and with the vegetable in it. So that's about it for this. What we are going to do now is to put that to cook. So I have a skillet here, which now should be hot enough. You want to cook it in there, gently, about three, and about three, four and in between you may So I have a little bit of olive oil and that's what we are going to do here. And while this is cooking, we're going to make a sauce with that. And that's what I have here. A little tray for my sauce. This, remember, I will and a saucepan right here. So what I have in there: a little bit of olive oil, again, or peanut oil, any type of oil, I tend to use, you know, different type of oil. The onion, I'm gonna chop a to put in there. I use a great deal of onion at home. Onion, garlic. The type of thing we use a lot. You know, sometime, when you do the mousse that I have done here, you may have had more of and with the fish, it's fine. With the fish, you would not There is not enough albumin in the fish. The texture of the fish to accommodate the ice, but the meat will. And I was saying before, and finally, if you do it then you put more and more. I have tomato here, and this is just plain diced tomato. This is a tomato sauce, remember? We cut it in dice, we don't really have to- we're not removing the seed or anything from the tomato here. That kind of rough, nice tomato, homemade tomato and mushroom. Garlic. I'm going to put, chop a Maybe right here. Crush the garlic again to release the essential oil. (knife chopping) I don't have to chop that garlic that thin because it's going to cook for a while. (pan sizzles) Okay. This is cooking. Now, I want to put the mushroom in it. And those mushroom we have just washed. I washed them at the It's not that you don't wash mushroom, but at the last moment, you wash them. See, you have different type of mushroom. Often people will tell you, or you're being told very tight, you know? It's fine. But I tell you, the are older specimen, they are ripe and they And they are usually less expensive. Often I buy my mushroom on in the supermarket for half the price and I end up having something Okay, this saute a couple of minutes. Now what we want to do just plain tomato. The mushroom with it. I could put the mushroom I have plenty. The juice! Remember, the juice from That will give me a bit of Dash of salt. And pepper. And that's it. Feel about all we're I'm going to cover that, let it cook, and that should cook You know? With that, now, let's see what- (patties sizzling) Our patty, ah, they're beautiful. You know, you can see, on each side. I mean, you want that to cook- you know, this is a type of but it doesn't mean that You know, it cook well done, as long as it reach at least 160 degree internal temperature. Salmon, that would be killed at 160. So now we cover it and lower the heat. And I'm going to move to, to show you how to do a nice dessert now. And what I have here, I have a whole bunch of different fruit, and I'm going to start I have a beautiful grapefruit, and those are the pink ruby, so-called. And what I will do is to And as you can see, thick skin, and I go with my knife in cutting all around so that my grapefruit is That it's totally nude. Now, before- I'm holding the thing with the skin here- before I continue with that, I'm gonna rinse my hand because I was working with the turkey and I'll put a little bit of soap. I think it's a good idea to wash your hand when you work with poultry, you know? Okay. Now, this is totally Now we want to take the segment out of it. What you do, you cut on the first one to And then you go next to the next segment and you turn your knife In that case, here, I have a pit. You see, you try to get them pitless. Again, you lift it up each time, you lift it up next to the next segment. This is the proper technique to do orange, to do grapefruit, to do any of the citrus fruit, you know, that you may want, like if you do a duck a this is what you would want to do. And now look what happened here. I've taken the whole thing out. All I have is the segment in between. I press out the juice and all I have left is this, you know? And this is what we're We have this. I have a little more here. And we want to put, for the color and also I'm putting some kiwi here, you know? And the kiwi, very simply, You know, the kiwi is very good. It's part of the gooseberry In nouvelle cuisine it was so it get maligned, but it is good. Beautiful color, also. A bit astringent, you know? And we're going to mix that with some, some sweet wine, you know? Occasionally I cook with Of course, if you don't put a bit of lemon juice, actually, you have enough with the juice from the grapefruit, and it'd be perfectly fine, you know? So here, we put that in there, and I want to put a dash of Grand Marnier, the Grand Marnier, of course, is a brandy with an emulsion and we put a sweet wine here. I have an interesting a sweet Muscat from Corsica. Here I have a Sauternes, and the Sauternes, of course, is from the Bordeaux area of France, a very sweet wine. And we're going to open that bottle. This is a great bottle opener. And you can keep it in your pocket. This is, put that at the end. You push this in there, and then, with your start coming up, oscillating, and then three quarter of the way up, you go back the other way and you take it out, you know? So, this is good. A little bit of- this is a Botrytis wine, so-called, what we call in France &quot;pourriture noble,&quot; that is the noble rot, when there is a certain bacteria, which attack the grape, you know, and give you, and dry the grape out, and by drying the grape out, it concentrate the juice, you know, into the grape itself. It's a very concentrated wine, which is expensive, of course, but well worth it. So, this is a very simple, that you have, it'd be very refreshing in full summer. I can put a cherry on top of that. And actually, you know, what I could put also is a decoration, look at what I have here. This is actually a grapefruit, you know, it's a mint grapefruit, and that would be ideal, of course, for what I am doing today, since I'm doing grapefruit. And that give a little to your dessert. And now, let's see whether our, (pan sizzling) our patty are ready. And I think they are. Let's see about our tomato sauce here. Tomato sauce is beautiful. It's a fallacy to think that tomato sauce has to cook for hours and hours. It'd get bitter, you So, what we're going to have here with a couple of patty right here, just put the four of them and the sauce right on top of it. Or around, you know? Actually, it's so pretty that I could leave the sauce around. But this is, have that with a crunchy That'd be terrific. Look at that. There's two patty here. I can even decorate that with maybe a bit of our fresh, we We have all kind of beautiful herb. I put that right on top And this is our main course in the menu. You may think that this for a midweek dinner in but you know, it work out this way. Very often, you have ordinary food, or what I may call ordinary food, and you put it into beautiful silverware, you bring a bottle of wine, put the tablecloth, and all that change the type We talk about country food or home food. I can have the same dishes, you know, putting a plain bowl and my wife and I can eat But the time I put it beautiful and all that, that become kind of bourgeois, or very, you know, guest type of food, you know, a bit more elegant. And by the time I open a bottle of wine and if I put a tie and if we get dressed, and if we put beautiful we are getting into haute cuisine. So, very often, you know, you have to at your food this way. Likewise with the dessert. Usually we don't have dessert at home. We may finish with a fruit. Well, today, we have a fruit dessert, but very often the fact to a normal meal, bring it to another One way or the other, you know, you have to remember that whether you sit in the kitchen or in the dining room, it's always great to eat have the time to discuss And we always do that at my house. When my mother come, as well as when my daughter come, when she was, like, three years old, she used to come home and tell my wife, &quot;What's for dinner, Mom?&quot; And my wife would say, &quot;Food.&quot; Now, she's 24 years old and when she asks what's for dinner, we still say &quot;food.&quot; And the type of food we have today, we have that beautiful soup. Like you can see here, this is very earthy. It could be a whole meal in itself, you know, for winter and all that. And now we have the we call it &quot;fricadelle,&quot; it's a turkey patty. Remember, very lean. There is an egg and there is ice in it. It's very spongy and elastic. It's very nice. And with the sauce, particularly that sauce and mushroom with it, you know, it goes very well with it. That'd be great. Then, after that, the salad, we always have a salad. We have a kind of mixed salad here with a lot of things in it. Plain salad is perfectly fine, also. I love salad with any of my meal. And of course, the dessert. The dessert here, we put the sweet wine, that is, the Sauternes or Muscatel, those kind of very sweet wine, which goes well with it. You don't cook with those wine, those wine will tend to So, they are to be served if you don't want to put the wine in it, it's perfectly fine. We can also put, Port wine That would make a nice And with this, we want a glass of wine. I have a wine from the They say the Pinot blanc. One of the only part of France, actually, where the varietal that is actually written on the bottle. So the Pinot blanc- we say &quot;blan&quot; in France, we say &quot;blanc&quot; with with a is a very fruity, light, delicate wine, without any pretensions, you know, the type of wine which will go very well with a family dinner. I enjoy cooking it for you. I hope you're going to You're going to sit down together. Enjoy it. (piano chord plays) (futuristic music)