After five years of searching, I have finally found... ...something. Back in 2014, The article was titled and was about this stylized symbol Upon seeing the symbol, within the deepest recesses of and forced a long-forgotten I used to draw this symbol Two rows of three vertical lines connected The ends were then capped, like so, Beyond that, what it was supposed to represent, I think it was just a cool symbol To my surprise, however, this wasn't just some People from all over the world reported they too had None of whom seemed to know where it came from. After reading about this, to see if I could provoke a few more Christmas trees every single one of them recognized the symbol. Unfortunately, they were just as clueless as I was At this point, I was hooked. This is exactly the type of inconsequential that make me want to wake up in the morning. But as I began my search, to attempt to track down Many had tried and failed where I now stood. But in my delusions of grandeur, I brushed it off as the I turned to my trusty board of keys, and after some intense clickety-clang, I managed to track down From this, I quickly learned the symbol was strongly So much so that many even Stussy was founded in the early 1980s, and many insist The problem is, there is no evidence of that. Countless attempts notwithstanding, no one has been able to produce an article of or even just a photograph Although, to be fair, some designs, and it's not difficult to see Now, this could have been the end of the story that many claims to have drawn this symbol I mean, it's not like people would just go on the claims the symbol predates the And so, I returned to my alphabet shovel Another frequent association is with the Japanese While that emblem has the same basic shape, The two most obvious ones being the spacing as well as the complete lack of vertical lines. However, the Suzuki logo and so it has the advantage of being old enough As such, one could argue that this is merely because it's easier to draw. Even so, I struggled to reconcile the fact that would want to reproduce the emblem At least the Stussy explanation made sense specifically targeting that demographic. And so, I spun up the ol' Another popular theory is that the symbol For instance, the symbol is frequently associated but there's not even a passing resemblance Other bands include Styx, Slayer, and KISS, The only band I've come across which actually is the American thrash metal band, Sacred Reich. Unfortunately, the band was founded in 1985, I could go on and on about all of these dead ends, So after spending a whole lot of time I decided to do something productive. I needed a way to gauge and so I spent some time extracting all the comments until I had a list I then sifted through this to extract all the comments that mentioned After filtering out all the false positives, which mentioned a country When mapped out geographically, Alright, let's dial it back with the theatrics. As you can see, There is naturally going to be an overrepresentation of as these comments were taken But it's still interesting to note that the Well, except Antarctica. As far as we know. I then went through the same process, except this time, This is what that looks like. If these users on the internet, which is a then sightings of this symbol It's not just international An S that transcends both space and time. It's The Universal S! Speaking of which, is this even an S? Because some claim they always Which, when you think about it, It could also depict the number 5 as seen in this graffiti from 2006. And why limit ourselves to just alphanumerics? It could also be a depiction of an infinity Some speculate it could be which is an ancient symbol of a snake or dragon eating While it is tempting this is not the case while this symbol clearly has two. To further complicate the situation, One frequent name is the Superman S, despite the lack of similarity between the two. Others have opted for more generic prefixes In total, I've come across over 60 different an absolute blast. I also noticed a tendency for people to combine For example, it's frequently drawn specifically with a palm tree This is especially common in Greece As if that wasn't enough, quite a few people claim by continuously adding rows of three vertical lines What this means is The Universal S may have that was eventually truncated down If that's the case, this pattern could have because humans kinda have a thing for symmetry. Every culture on Earth has, made use of tessellation, So, with that in mind, I spent an ungodly ornamental books, ancient artifacts, yet I have been utterly defeated in my quest Some were indeed similar and might have inspired Suffice it to say; things were going great! In the midst of this I happened upon this comment According to them, The puzzle consisted of and the challenge was to turn those lines into an S This sounded quite promising, and so I The puzzle was more specifically and it had supposedly been featured published by Unfortunately, so even if this puzzle existed, However, I decided to pursue this lead anyway at least I would have some tangible evidence Keep in mind, up until this point, A bunch of internet strangers, claiming they had seen or drawn this symbol The oldest photographic evidence came in the as well as this squiggly version of the symbol that closed down in 2006. I... I don't even remember how I found that. Anyway, I've since acquired about as well as a bunch of matchstick puzzle books, ...of my spirit. Not a single one of these issues It's not even featured which is said to be And despite near endless repository including every single puzzle this one is curiously missing. After spending so much time on this I reluctantly put this topic aside For April Fools of 2017, It was essentially a blank canvas and each user was allowed to alter the color Whole communities came together and painted And as my eyes marveled at this pixelated something caught my attention. In the corner, there it was. In this rainbow-colored soup of insanity, had joined forces to construct a symbol The gods had clearly spoken. The search had to continue. And, this time, it was different because, Throughout the video, I've alluded to another Namely, graffiti. Many believe the symbol originated within and claim that various street gangs, used The Universal S as their tag. It makes a lot of sense because and drawing a symmetrical S in that style Perhaps, this frustration is what gave birth we use to draw The Universal S. Two rows of three vertical lines Simple. I can't even remember how many I must have sifted through over the years, but one day I found this. It's an art piece by an artist named and it was painted in New York in 1982. I almost missed it but in the corner, Basquiat describes it as the &quot;CLASSIC S OF GRAFF&quot;, and it's not his only piece Interestingly enough, here it's painted right next Now, I knew this was not the origin, to substantiate this ocean of hearsay. Furthermore, it gave me some because I had all but given up at this point. And with this newfound motivation I stumbled I was reading about this photographer had published an influential photobook about graffiti For some reason, and after retracing my research, Years before, I had watched an interview with I don't think I paid but I really wish I had because one of the photographs from The Faith of Graffiti And hidden amongst the graffiti The photograph was taken in and it's not the only photograph in this collection What was so unexpected is the fact that the symbol Not only was the interview conducted by the the video was uploaded in 2010 In spite of this, Nevertheless, these photographs were now the After spending a few more weeks I put the video back on the shelf once again Fast forward to mid 2018 that in the movie Piranha from 1978, the symbol can be seen scribbled onto the wall I found out the scene and while it did not predate it was still more evidence. Sometime thereafter, I stumbled upon another in the early 1970s Many of which feature the number 8 The least ambiguous of which Given that the symbol in this photograph is which appears to have been written in 1970, This was now the earliest known evidence. Although, as I later discovered, A Reddit user by the name of GaryDuder posted Unfortunately, it was buried beneath and so this quite significant piece of evidence In any case, I was fairly satisfied at this point. I may not have found the origin, but I had and that was a hell of a lot more So a couple of months ago, In doing so, I found myself going through just to make sure I had That's when I stumbled upon this illustration This book It's not even from the 1900s. This book was published in 1890. What's so wonderful about this book is that who taught geometry So, perhaps, just maybe, As an expert on Willson might have taught his students I suppose we may never know. Regardless, the existence of this illustration Presuming, of course, as a distant ancestor While it may seem strange for a symbol like this it's really not. There are numerous pre-internet symbols which have as much of a global reach The Sator Square and Kilroy If anything, this symbol exemplifies the phenomenon back in 1976. An idea or behavior In this case, Nor is it difficult to see why it spread as is both clever and practical. A perfect recipe for virality. No, the mystery here is all about the origin. Where did it come from? Does it really stem from some generic pattern, truly be the beginning? For all we know, plastered across the walls of paleolithic caves Okay, that may be a bit of a reach but... All I know is that I certainly won't be the because with the conclusion of this Thanks for watching, bye.