- Father in the name of Jesus. We thank You that You have the power to utterly destroy the works And I pray today, Lord, that Your Word would and shatter mindsets that are not of You. I pray Lord that You expose his tactics. Reveal deception, and cause us to know the truth, that the truth might set us free. I pray today be a day of a day of liberation for Your people. If they would come to know the fullness of the the full power of Your in the name of Jesus, we pray. I can already sense such And I want you to say it because - Amen. It's time to break the cycle. It's time to break the cycle of sin. It's time to break the cycle of shame. It's time to break the cycle of heaviness. It's time to break the cycle of confusion. Whatever is robbing you that is rightfully yours. Whatever is robbing you It's time for that thing to once and for all. And I truly believe that the to destroy those strongholds in your life. It's time to get free once and for all, and the word of God does have the answer. So we're gonna go deep today in the Word. So I want you taking notes, and I want you to listen to this message from start to finish. You may hear bits and if you skip around. But by listening this in its entirety, you're not only going to that will cause you to as it pertains to strongholds, but your knowledge will That's how the scripture says to do it. Line upon line, precept upon precept. Not just little sound bites. But I want to today with the word of God, by the help of the Holy Spirit, lay a foundation of your understanding, lay a foundation of your And upon that foundation, we will build truths. And soon you will have a spiritual structure in your life that helps you to defeat Now it's important to remember that demons affect the than they affect the unbeliever. Believers need deliverance Unbelievers need deliverance from demons. I'm gonna, toward the end of this stream, I'll explain exactly what I mean by that and I'll even show you to know the difference. But demons affect the believer and the unbeliever differently. Remember again, I'll say it. The unbeliever needs to The believer needs to be And it's important to know the difference, again, I'll cover a Also, I highly recommend my teaching on YouTube titled &quot;How to do Spiritual And there's a lot of in that message, not necessarily in order to understand strongholds, but I talk about other you may hear me talking today Well, what about that? And what about the enemy Go and take a look at at my view on spiritual warfare, So that teaching and this So go check it out when you get a chance. Now this message will only work if you're willing to obey the Word. If you're not willing to obey the Word, just turn this off now. Don't even bother, because it's not just the receiving of that Word, it's not just the hearing of that Word that produces the power of the Word. It's doing the Word. It's the application of the revelation. What I'm gonna cover. What is a stronghold? How to identify a stronghold in your life. The eight strongholds. How to break a stronghold and how the enemy can That last part's gonna be very interesting because we often waste our time fighting strategies of the enemy that don't apply to the Christian. - [Steven] Come on. - And because he has us distracted with things that don't even we fail to address the root of what actually works on the believer. So please don't hear what I'm not saying. I am not saying nor have I ever said that demons can in no But the way that demons is much different than So, number one, what is a stronghold? A stronghold as described in the scripture is an imagination, or reasoning, a thought pattern, a mindset. A stronghold is a that goes so deep into the mind that it becomes a part of us. A stronghold will affect what you think, and therefore it will affect how you feel, and how you feel will and how you behave will Now, the scripture says in Go there now 2 Corinthians I'm reading out of the NLT. &quot;We use God's mighty to knock down the strongholds and to destroy false arguments. We destroy every proud obstacle that keeps people from knowing God. We capture their rebellious thoughts and teach them to obey Christ.&quot; Now, the context of what has to do with Paul defending So there was some wannabe apostles who were jealous of Paul's influence. They were jealous of what And so these wannabe apostles well, he's not a true apostle. They said things like, well, he's really tough in person with you, or he's really tough through letters, but once he comes in So in other words, there really intimidated and just Almost like some people do, you know, some people do it to in the comment section, I'd like to see some of those people meet because I don't know sometimes, And so they were accusing Paul of that. They were saying, okay, Paul is really strong in his letters. But when it comes down to he's gonna be really weak. And so Paul the Apostle writes this to defend his apostolic authority. Now this is Paul's way of addressing their rebellious and So these false teachers are And so Paul writes this saying, not the world's weapons, not carnal weapons, not weapons to what, to knock down and to destroy false arguments. So Paul is giving us his strategy on how to deal with deception. So the context, yes, is Paul defending his apostolic authority. But the universal application, the spiritual principle is that Paul is actually on how to deal with deception. Now let's break the verse down. Where Paul says, &quot;our weapons or &quot;our weapons are not carnal&quot;. This means that the fight Nor by human effort alone, the fight against deception with anything in the physical world. Our weapons are not carnal, therefore our weapons are spiritual. Now the Bible then says that These weapons that Paul the Apostle uses, these element of truth, these They're mighty through It means they're effective Meaning these weapons of truth They pack a punch. They're not some weak little thing. Like in the world, they have these sayings and they have these cliches and they repeat the mantras and but to know avail because they lack power, they don't pack a punch. Why, because they're not God's truth. And so Paul the Apostle is saying that these weapons that we use, these weapons of truth that they work, they're effective, Then the scripture says, &quot;to the pulling down of strongholds&quot;. Now this breakdown I'm giving you is based on the King James version. &quot;To the pulling down of strongholds&quot;. I love this phrase because &quot;to the pulling means the utter destruction a barrier, an obstacle, or a stronghold. So when he talks about these weapons, Paul the Apostle is saying are mighty through God, meaning they're quite effective, but this is what's so powerful. They're so effective to the pulling down of strongholds. It literally means the The total removal of. In other words, not one thing left behind. So if you're taking down a stronghold and if you could see and if you could see that these are built on lies, then you as those strongholds that not one brick would That's how effective these weapons are. That's the picture that 2 Corinthians 10 is painting for us. These strongholds of human reason that are incited by demonic influence are built based on lies. So brick by brick, the Each brick is a lie, a deception, a half truth that we embrace. And then that structure finds its footing as each lie is built upon an another. But this phrase, &quot;to the literally means that not one The complete and total If you are ready for God not one brick upon another, then write amen in the Now watch this. So the weapons are not carnal, They're they're weapons of truth. This is how we fight deception. Mighty through God, meaning They pack a punch so effective the pulling down of strongholds. Completely, totally removed. Casting down imaginations. This word imaginations is reasonings, or mindsets or deceptive paradigms. So that's where we get our understanding of what a stronghold is, Every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God Anything, this is so powerful, this verse. The scripture is telling us that we cast down these And these things that keep us from truly knowing God are taken down. Wow! So these deceptions, these lies, warp our view of who God is. And once our view of God is warped. Everything about us becomes warped. If we see God as purely then it affects the way we live and causes us to live in religion. If we see God as someone then it affects us in the way What you believe about God will affect every aspect of your life. And so the scripture here says that we tear down these imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. In other words, everything from truly knowing God is removed. Now, this is amazing here. Bringing into captivity every thought. Bringing into captivity every thought. Now think about this. A stronghold is a fortress. A stronghold is a place of influence. If you're going to battle, you want to establish strongholds because strongholds give you the ability to supply your army, to feed your army, to make it difficult for the enemy to take back ground from you. That's why as you advance it gives you an advantage, and allows you to move So then, when you tear down a stronghold, you can go in and take captives. - [Steven] Come on. - When you tear down a fortress, And that's what this scripture Casting down imaginations. Every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, watch this, bringing into captivity, what? Every thought. When a stronghold is taken, prisoners or captives are then taken. So remember this. Before you can take your thoughts captive, you have to first tear - [Steven] Amen. - This is gonna be You see, you've tried to Oh, I don't wanna lust, I don't wanna hold unforgiveness, I don't wanna hold unforgiveness. I don't wanna repeat this cycle, I don't wanna repeat this cycle. I don't wanna have a prideful thought. I don't wanna have a doubt. I don't wanna have a thought of anger. I don't wanna have a thought of cynicism. I don't want thought of religion. And those thoughts are they run through our mind, why? Because you haven't taken You can't take the thought prisoner until you first have Once you take the stronghold, then you can take the thoughts. Once you expose the lie or the mindset or the thought pattern, then you can recognize and more easily take captive the thoughts. Now, a lie is anything So I could tell you today that for those of you who I'm wearing a black jacket. But if I were to get my jacket is red. Well, you would look at okay, that's a lie. But that lie wouldn't become deception until you believed it. So you're looking right at me now, you can see my jacket It's black. That's a lie I told you. But because you don't believe that lie, it's not yet deception. Only when a lie is believed, So the only people I could really lie to concerning my jacket are the Or maybe you're listening on the live stream, and you and you're just listening. I could deceive those who aren't looking. So what keeps you from Not the lack of the lie, because people will lie Demons will lie to you all the time. So what is it that keeps It's your ability to see the truth. So a lie only becomes deception That deception, watch this now, I'm walking you through the process. Remember we talked about This is something that's so That deception becomes a mindset through which other You hear a lie. You can either reject that Once you believe a lie, And that pattern becomes the filter through which you run all Now, if I start to think it just makes it worse and worse. So then one lie can And if my thought pattern is warped, then anything else that I hear, any other information that I or warped or seen through And now I have a pattern. That pattern then becomes my feelings. My feelings then become my actions. My actions then become my habits and my habits become cycles. Those cycles, built upon is what we call a stronghold. Now here's the problem. Here's where most believers go wrong. Most believers try to address rather than addressing the Most believers try to address the habit and not the deception behind it all. So they try to, let's say for example, someone is dealing with a lie, they're dealing with a So they believe the lie that God doesn't have them in their hand. They don't believe that That lie, or maybe they feel overlooked. That lie then becomes That paranoia then becomes And that reclusive lifestyle that makes it easier for the So it's a cycle that gets worse and worse, and most believers then at that point, they try to just address Well, I feel worried, so or they talk to a friend or and it relieves the problem for the day. They go to a service and it relieves the problem for the week, but then they find themselves coming back to that place of fear, why, 'cause they never took They never took down the thought patterns. If a lie isn't believed, And here's what's so scary. The nature of deception is such don't know they're deceived. Nobody wants to be deceived. Nobody wants to believe but that's the problem with deception. It only works when you're not aware of it. Matthew 6:23 says this. &quot;But when your eye is unhealthy, your whole body filled with darkness. And if the light you think how deep that darkness is&quot;. Whoa. So for example, let's say you believe the lie &quot;you're alone&quot;. The enemy lies to you, you're alone, you're alone. Well, what happens then? I start to feel lonely And then I act upon that loneliness. You know, some people or they try to medicate their through sexual perversion, Through mind numbing entertainment. They try to distract So they address the feeling, but they never take care of the lie. And what do those things end up doing? They end up making the and therefore the actions repeat. So they get caught in the and their feelings, their their actions and their feelings while never going to and not just addressing their but getting down to the root of it and addressing their beliefs. Most people at this point would not realizing that there's a Now this is how demonic powers When demons work against believers, they always use deception, They always speak to And I wanna tell you how to In the meantime, I'm gonna Tee Gee says, &quot;Okay, I Isaac says, &quot;This is how I used to be&quot;. Jason is watching. Deborah, &quot;Get to the root of That's right. Jessica La Pena says &quot;Amen.&quot; All Glory to God says &quot;Wow&quot;, Shaneal is leaving hand clap emojis. Rere is saying &quot;Preach it, Diga!&quot; Joana writes, &quot;Get to the root&quot;, and this is so important Take a moment, guys, like, comment, share. Like this if it's blessing you - [Steven] Come on. - So I wanna show you how how to identify a stronghold. John chapter 8, verses 31 and 32 say this. &quot;Jesus said to the people you are truly my disciples &quot;You are truly my disciples if you remain faithful to my teachings. And you will know the truth. And the truth will set you free.&quot; So if you walked into a you can't see anything. What would you do to Would you fight the darkness? Would you flail your fists about the air, trying to punch the Would you yell at the darkness? Would you scream at the darkness? You try to scoop the and toss it out? No, that would be silly to try to do that. The best way to get rid of darkness is to simply turn on the light. - [Steven] Come on. - The best way to get rid of deception is to simply know the truth. So how do you identify these strongholds? Number one, we have to know. Well, overall we identify by knowing the truth, plain and simple. So how do we know the truth? I'm gonna give you three Number one, we know the Psalm 119:105 says &quot;Your Word and a light for my path.&quot; 2 Timothy chapter 3, verse 16 says, &quot;All scripture is inspired by God and is useful to teach us what is true. And to make us realize It corrects us when we are wrong and teaches us to do what is right.&quot; So number one, we know If you're not in the Word, you I don't say that to condemn you. I don't say that to make you feel bad. I don't say that to make you feel lazy. I say that because I care about you. And I don't want you to be deceived. I want you to know the truth, and one of the main ways if not the main way that we know the truth is through the word of God. Be in the Word daily, and you will find that as you move through the scripture, as you read verse after verse, you will find that there that are contradicted in the word of God. And there's two ways we can We can say, oh, well, to make this verse fit or let me try to try a way to, I call this theological gymnastics. When they try to contort to fit in their worldview, rather than just humbling and saying, okay, I was wrong. I will adjust now. But you can't know you're in deception until you know the truth and you can't know the truth - Amen. If you make a daily practice I'm telling you, that when it comes to strongholds. So many people want to lay hands on me, and make it all go away. And God does do that sometimes. - [Steven] Right. - But generally speaking, is to be a life of spiritual discipline. And we can't try to gain in a moment what only comes through devotion. We cannot try to gain in a moment what can only come through So we have to know the Number two, we know the John 14:26 says, &quot;But when as my representative&quot;, &quot;He will teach you everything and will remind you of John 16:13. &quot;When the spirit of truth comes, He will guide you into all truth. He will not speak on His own, but will tell you what He has heard. He will tell you about the future.&quot; So the Holy Spirit works with the Word to highlight truths from scripture that give us breakthrough in our thinking, the Holy Spirit takes what And He reminds us of what He reveals what the Word reveals. The Holy Spirit is another means by which we come to know the truth. - And number three, so number one, we know the truth by God's Word. Number two, we know the Number three, we know the Now I know that 1 John 2:27 says, &quot;You don't have any need that But what we have to understand John is writing to the believers who already understand And he's talking to them, trying to encourage them in their faith, basically saying to them, look, you already know how this works. You already know the gospel. So you don't need these and trying to tell you of a new gospel or a new way to be saved. So in 1 John 2:27, it's not teachers plain and simple. It was saying in that specific instance, when you understand salvation, you need someone else to come So let's not hear - what that scripture is not saying. Ephesians 4:11-12 says, &quot;Now these are the gifts The apostles, the and the pastors and teachers. Their responsibility is to do his work, and build up So the Lord has given us teachers that we might become spiritually equipped. Now, Titus 1:9 in the &quot;He must hold firm to the so that he may be able to give instruction in sound doctrine and also Now this is not a license to - [Steven] Right, right. - Rather, what the scripture is the power of sound doctrine Now there are times where but these moments are not as common as we may imagine them to be. Things that you call out are things that contradict the Like if somebody starts didn't rise from the dead in bodily form. If someone starts teaching that there are other ways If someone starts teaching to repent of your sins these fundamental truths, that's when you call out the heresy. Now, if there are You know, I believe in speaking I believe in divine healing I believe in different ways of on the peripheral doctrines. There are differences among brethren, which is why we have But again, this is not a license to call everyone out who this has to do with calling people out who contradict the and who try to change the core principles, the core truth of the gospel, which is not something that you call out. The scripture goes on to say in 2 Timothy chapter and these are instructions to Timothy to teach and to preach. the Bible says, &quot;Preach the Word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching.&quot; So with humility, with &quot;For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears, they will accumulate to suit their own passions and to the truth and wander off into myths.&quot; That's very dangerous. Now, the scripture makes it to give us sound doctrine, teachers that help us And you know true teachers and the fundamentals of the faith. So, you know the truth and the truth is how you expose a stronghold. So let's recap. A stronghold is a mindset. A mindset that is based in deception. In order to expose a stronghold, you have to find the truth. You can find the truth through God's Word, through the Holy Spirit, So that's how you identify strongholds. Now I wanna talk to you a little bit about the battle in the mind, and then I'm gonna show that actually may be Before I get to the next point, remember to like this video, Also, if you're new to this stream, you're new to our channel, about the power of the Holy Spirit. People come here for our and sermons on the Holy Spirit and videos of the Holy Spirit's power in action. But we also do other types of teachings like on spiritual warfare, We also feature weekly a worship cover from our very own Mr. Steven Moctezuma, does beautiful worship covers. And we do live streams, and we teach the word of God, spirit filled and biblically balanced. So make sure you're subscribed if you're enjoying the to share the stream, For those of you watching, do me a favor. If you're subscribed to the channel, can you tell us in the comment section, why you're subscribed to EncounterTV and how it blesses your life? And while we do that, Steve, you wanna read some comments there? - Yeah. So if you didn't know, we just hit 1000 likes on this video. So you have activated right so it could be any one of you, So all you have to do is keep commenting, keep liking, and keep sharing. I believe what Diga is saying so key, and I can already you guys are loving it and receiving it. I like this comment someone left. &quot;Strongholds are like roaches. They flee once the light turns on.&quot; That's a great analogy, - That's a good analogy, that's not bad. they're receiving it, so powerful stuff. - All right. So the battle is in the mind. Now I did address some but I want you to just kind of, if you heard this before, If you haven't heard this before, it's essential to your understanding. And then as I said, I'm eight different strongholds, and we're gonna expose these strongholds, and as we expose them, I'm gonna show you how to get rid of Okay. So, when demons attack Christians, it's always by means of deception. Okay, that's generally speaking. Now, the way demonic as I said at the top of the live stream, is much different than the When demons attack Christians, That deception becomes feelings. Those feelings become actions. Those actions become behavior patterns. And then that is what for a curse or demon possession or oppression or demonization. But I am not saying that I am not saying that Christians don't need to be aware I am not saying that demons but I'm saying we have to if we're going to address So demons will use their words. Now there are a couple other can attack the believer. Sometimes through sickness and other times through violent demoniacs. So demons can't physically they need a vessel. And that vessel sometimes is sickness or perhaps someone who is demon possessed who goes on a rage and harms Christians, that's happened before. So demonic beings use deception And if they want to harm the Christian, because they can't dwell in the Christian or attach themselves to the Christian or oppress the Christian, they can use vicariously sickness or someone who is violent and that would be a vicarious attack, but they use natural means in the world and they influence those natural means to affect the believer. Now that's important to know, and I'll explain why that's Because the reason people is because they don't know So I want to read a scripture to you, a portion of scripture to you. I wanna give you this working definition of spiritual warfare. For the believer, the fight to believe God's Ephesians chapter 6, verses &quot;A final word. Be strong in the Lord Put on all of God's armor to stand firm against all For we are not fighting against but against evil rulers and against mighty powers in this dark world, and against evil spirits in put on every piece of God's armor.&quot; This is verse 13 of Ephesians 6. &quot;Therefore put on every so that you will be in the time of evil. Then after the battle, Stand your ground, putting and the body armor of God's righteousness. For shoes, put on the peace so that you will be fully prepared. In addition to all of these, to stop the fiery arrows of the devil. Put on salvation as your helmet, and take the sword of the Pray in the spirit at all Stay alert and be for all believers everywhere.&quot; Now notice here that each piece gives us has to do with The word strategies here in verse 11 is methods, deceit, trickery. So the Bible tells us in this is everything that you Look at this again, real &quot;Put on all of God's armor to stand firm against all In other words, there's that can't be defeated by what we see in Ephesians chapter 6. So every strategy, every every method that the devil has specifically against the believer, 'cause Ephesians is to the believer. Specifically his attacks to the by what we see in Ephesians 6. So this is it. If you're a believer, this is it. There are no other strategies So you can stand against all strategies of the devil. The armor of God gives you the power to fight all strategies of the devil. Now the belt of truth. Truth is something you know in your mind. The body armor of righteousness. How do you live in righteousness? You overcome temptation. Where do you fight temptation? In the mind. - [Steven] Right. Shoes of peace, peace of mind, shield of faith, belief in the mind, or the mind of the spirit. Helmet having to do with the mindset of salvation. The knowledge of the truth of salvation. The belief by faith in salvation, having to do with the mind. The only weapon that we're given you could say shoes of peace technically are to help us take ground, but the only one that is meaning offensive, the only one that's directly offensive, the only one that we is the sword of the spirit. And what is the sword of the spirit? It's God's Word. So with the armor of God, we defend against the the deceptions, the trickery, the methods. but it's with the sword of the It's with the word of God And where does this battle take place? It's in the mind. Now for the nonbeliever, For the nonbeliever. There's actually no such Why, because they're not fighting. - Right, right. They're not soldiers, they're prisoners. So spiritual warfare is something that only applies to the believer. Now we can war in prayer on but the believer is not fighting that war, they're fully given to - [Steven] Wow. 2 Timothy, chapter 3 verses &quot;You have been taught the and they have been given to you. They have given you the wisdom that comes by trusting in Christ Jesus. All scripture is inspired by God and is useful to teach us realize what is wrong in our lives. It corrects us when we are wrong and teaches us to do what is right. God uses it to prepare watch this now, &quot;to do every good work.&quot; So there's no work that that isn't covered in scripture. Everything that is necessary is covered in scripture. Everything that is necessary is covered in scripture. - Everything you ever need to is covered in scripture. And if it's not covered in scripture, it's not necessary for your victory. So Ephesians 6 makes it very clear that A, this is how you fight all the that each piece of armor is given to us to fight the battle in Christians fight deception, Now the deception of the So I don't wanna give you because we shouldn't just oh, well, I can't be possessed. I can't be oppressed. I can't be cursed. I can't be demonized. Yes, that's true. But don't forget he can still And that deception is very powerful because once that deception Well, that affects the way you feel. And the way you feel changes if you allow it to, and those and it's a very powerful, powerful hold. Your mind is like a walled city. The enemy can walk by. He can't read your mind, He can't get into you. But he can throw thoughts over the wall. And those thoughts that he Ideas, deceptions, lies, He throws them at you, and and you can choose to either or you can choose to Now watch this, remember we Here's the problem. If there's a stronghold in your mind or a pattern of thinking that's you wouldn't know it, because So if there's a stronghold in your mind and the enemy throws a thought your way, guess what's gonna happen? That thought is gonna take And you won't be able to take it captive until you first have Now I'm gonna talk about Before I do, if you're can you just type amen so I know that you're receiving? I see Etta commented, &quot;Fiery darts&quot;, yes, the fiery darts are the lies Why? Because they're fiery darts. They start as a little flame and then they become a huge inferno if we don't address them. So that's very important that to quench, as the scripture says, the fiery darts of the enemy. So how many of you are having You're starting to see, okay, it's starting to make a little more sense. Remember this, anything that's Anything that's spiritual is simple. Don't forget to like this hey, if you're joining us, and you just now joined the stream, make sure you've shared This stream is growing. This is our ninth week, and we're already almost This is just an amazing community. Welcome to the spirit family So we covered so far, It's a mindset. We covered how to identify a stronghold. You identify the stronghold You know the truth through the Word, through the Holy Spirit The battle is in the mind, and I talked about the armor gives us everything we need to fight the deceptions of the enemy. And now I want to go through, and this is gonna be very challenging. I need you to say, Lord, help me. I want you to say it out loud, because now I'm gonna go And I'm gonna show you each stronghold, these aren't all the strongholds, but these are some strongholds, some of the main ones that I've seen affecting most Christians. And this right here, it's It's gonna be eye-opening. And you're going to see why You're gonna see why you You're gonna see why you keep having those nightmares, those dreams. You're not possessed, you're not demonized, you're not cursed. There's a stronghold. And the answer for the believer And I'm gonna show how to fight this after I tell you about or some of the strongholds, at least on my list. Steve, how's the chat doing? - Chat's doing amazing, I like this comment by Meredith said, &quot;Deception into my life when I let my guard down.&quot; How many of you been there? &quot;I'm always having to remind myself that I am in a battle of the unseen.&quot; So very powerful, very interesting, because how many of you and we have to remember, stick to that Word is what we need. So powerful message so far, I mean, you guys are breaking the chat, I can't even keep up So very powerful stuff so far. - Stronghold number one. Indoctrination. Now, Paul wrote to the Galatians who were being deceived by that was quite religious in nature. So they were coming under the subjection of a law based gospel. And this is what is written &quot;Oh, foolish Galatians. Who has cast an evil spell on you? For the meaning of Jesus Christ's death was made as clear to a picture of his death on the cross.&quot; So Paul is basically telling 'em, look, I explained the death of Christ. I explained how all of this works. And now someone's deceiving you. Now it's important to &quot;Who has cast an evil spell on you?&quot; Or as the King James &quot;Who hath bewitched you?&quot; Now that Word doesn't mean cursed. It doesn't mean demonized. It doesn't mean oppressed or possessed. What it means literally in the Greek, it means captivated, fascinated, deceived. There are a couple ways but the context always Here, Paul is talking He's talking about a mindset. He's talking about them So he's reminding them now of the truth. How is he addressing this bewitching? He's not addressing the He's not addressing the bewitching through some traditional of handling the situation, He's addressing the bewitching by presenting the truth to So here they're bewitched, they're fascinated by this lie. 1 Timothy chapter 4, verses &quot;Now the Holy Spirit tells us clearly that in the last times some will turn away from the true faith&quot;, terrifying. &quot;They will follow deceptive spirits and teachings that come from demons. These people are hypocrites and liars and their consciences are dead.&quot; Now again, lemme make this clear. This is not a license false prophets, false teachers. Look, I have dozens and who you probably would know. We don't all agree on every little thing, but we agree on Jesus. Here the scripture in 1 Timothy 4 is talking about these doctrines that uproot the So I like to say it like this. When receiving from ministries, You don't need to throw If the watermelon is good, it's good. Just as you're eating the watermelon, you may have to spit out and that's okay, how Well just compare everything Compare everything I say And you may find some seeds from what I tell you. Who knows, maybe years from I'll go, oh, actually I gotta correct that, 'cause I was wrong on this thing. But I'm talking here that are destructive to the faith. - [Steven] Mm-hmm. - This is not, well do you Do you believe in healing for Do you believe, even some of these doctrines they're not make or break. The doctrines rather that these doctrines of demons are doctrines that question it's the kind of deception or stronghold that causes something to fall away from. I'll give you an example Universalism. This doctrine that teaches that God will ultimately not punish sin. The sin of those who haven't repented. Now, some would say, well, but in reality, when you when it comes down to it, that's Another doctrine of demons is this idea that there That's a doctrine of demons. So let's not go labeling every preacher who has some form of disagreement with us as a heretic or a false teacher. You can still receive from many wonderful men and women of God who on every little thing. So like a watermelon, eat the watermelon, spit out the seeds, but don't throw out My goodness, that wouldn't be Rather, the indoctrination are fundamental problems with doctrines. Now there are things that people believe that contradict the scripture. And it's the enemy's way They change the core of the gospel. Things like salvation, the deity of Christ. So here's how it looks. I'm gonna walk you through this. I'm gonna talk about the strongholds and I hope you enjoy I'm gonna show you the strongholds. And then I'm gonna show looks in your life. And I'm gonna show you So watch this, check this out. So the stronghold number The cycle works like this. Let's say there's a lie that you believe. The lie goes, for example, That's an example of a It's a belief that is anti-gospel. I have to earn myself salvation. There's the lie. So what does it produce in your feelings? The lie that I have to earn my salvation, and maybe some of you watching this, maybe you right now are dealing where you feel like you You know you feel like you if every time you mess up, you wonder if you lost your salvation. So maybe you believe this lie, I have to earn my salvation. And you feel what, you feel shame. You feel hopeless. You feel condemnation. And what does that produce in you? That produces the action to try to earn your salvation. And what does that action A life of joyless service, So that mental anguish, that joylessness, that tired feeling of constantly, always trying to work for your salvation. Where does it come from? Ultimately it's rooted in that lie that I have to earn my salvation. That's an example, number Stronghold number two, this is a big one for many believers here. Stronghold number two, accusation. Revelation 12:10 says this. &quot;Then I heard a loud voice It is come at last, salvation and power and and the authority of his Christ. For the accuser of our has been thrown down to the earth. The one who accuses them before Who's the accuser? It's the enemy. What does the enemy do? The enemy accuses you of your past. Someone is gonna get set - [Steven] Come on. - This is how the attack looks. Let's say you wake up in the morning. You're having a good day. Everything worked well. You didn't burn the toast, your breakfast was served You go out, there's not much traffic. So your day is running smooth. You didn't get in an Things are going, your on the radio, the worship song you want, it plays it just the right time. Things are going great. And you're just saying, God, thank you. Thank you for this blessing, thank you for my life. And then all of a sudden. (David snaps) Out of nowhere, a thought. Something from your past. Something you're ashamed of. Something you just And it seems that every time you're just starting to enjoy your life, that this thought, foom, And suddenly you're caught of guilt and shame, and Is this thing gonna Is this gonna come back and ruin my life? You tell yourself things like, well I don't really You're afraid to start enjoying your life because you feel like the moment you start enjoying your that this thing is just gonna come running right back into your life. - [Steven] Hmm. - And you feel shame and yeah, You've heard people preach, You've heard people preach, he's a new creation. You've read the scripture. &quot;There is now therefore, no condemnation to those You've heard all the scriptures. You've received prayer. You've received counseling. People have told you, God you got it right, move on. You've heard it again and But you just somehow of guilt and shame and You feel like you can't move on. And no matter what you do, you can't get this heaviness My friend, that is the - [Steven] Hmm. - And even though you may be now and then, your entire thought pattern needs to be shifted if Now the cycle works like this. And here's how subtle, oh, Here's how subtle it is. This may be why you still This may be still why you feel guilty for things that you know God has forgiven. This is why, because watch this now. You believe God forgives you. You know God forgives sinners, okay? That's not the lie that you believe. Here's the lie you believe. You believe that somehow, some way, God's forgiveness just doesn't apply to your specific situation. - [Steven] Ah. - What a subtle lie that So it's not that you don't It's not that you don't It's not that you don't believe it's that you don't believe applies specifically to Why? Maybe you did something You want to hear something amazing? The grace of God applies even Wow, the mercy of God. The grace of God applies even This of course does not mean Rather, this means that you can be free. So it goes something like this. The lie is God's forgiveness or to your specific situation. So what happens, what's produced? The feeling of shame, guilt, fear of your past coming back to bite you. And what are the actions that come out of that You start to seek affirmation. You know how you know you're struggling with this stronghold? Is if you have to get an answer I can't tell you how many from people or messages from I know God can forgive. But I did this, this, this, and this. Can God forgive me too? - [Steven] Right, right. - And what you do is, maybe you've listened to and all of that and you're And you're trying to assure yourself, God forgives me, God forgives me. And you wanna hear in that specific situation, Here's the problem with that, oh my goodness, the Here's the problem with that. Let's say you commit a sin. And you want assurance for You repent, you turn from it, and then you come to Brother David, I did this, this, and this, can God forgive me of this And I say to you, yeah, Here's what happens. You go, oh, thank God I'm forgiven. And then when you go and you go right back into cycle again. And now you gotta get someone to tell you that that specific sin is forgiven too. The problem? You didn't break the stronghold. - [Steven] Hmm. - So you're always gonna You're always gonna where you need assurance for this one and this one and this one and this one. And what happens? It starts to produce paranoia needing somebody to tell you, yeah, that sin can be forgiven. - Yeah, that sin can be forgiven. And you're waiting for what the word of God already tells you. Hear me now. - You're waiting for what the word of God already tells you. And so you get stuck in this pattern of constantly needing assurance for the forgiveness of your sins. Now, again, I'm not saying that But what I am saying is that's a demonic being accusing you. Constantly reminding you of your past. You don't deserve the grace of God. You don't deserve blessings. You don't deserve God's favor. You don't deserve good things. You don't deserve to have peace. You don't deserve to move on. And they keep you stuck in that. And sure, maybe you but you didn't deal with And so what happens? You come back to it again and again, constantly needing when the word of God assures you. So you have to break it. So what's the result of this? The action is you You constantly question if your And then the result is you You feel trapped, and you're You can't hang with friends and family. You can't be in a worship service. You can't enjoy a live stream without these thoughts Well, it's time to be free. 1 John 1:9 says, &quot;But if we confess our sins to Him, He is faithful and just and to cleanse us from all wickedness.&quot; So that's stronghold Stronghold number three, temptation. - [Steven] Ahh. - Satan is called the tempter. Watch this, 1 Thessalonians, chapter 3. I'm gonna read verses 4 and 5. &quot;Even while we were with you, we warned you that and they did, as you well know. That is why when I I sent Timothy to find out whether your faith was still strong. I was afraid that the tempter and that your work had been useless.&quot; If sin is a product, demons are salesmen. You ever try to go buy a car? The moment you pull up, They'll run out and they'll, They start showing off all That's what the devil does with sin. Look at all these wonderful pleasures. Oh, look at how this will make you feel. Look at how this will make you look. And the enemy is a salesman for sin. Demons take advantage of James 1:14 says, &quot;Temptation they come from our own desires, which entice us and drag us away.&quot; So it's my own desires that produce this. But the enemy takes Demons work with our demented Demons work with our demented desires. If you don't struggle with alcohol, the enemy is not gonna offer you a beer. - [Steven] Hmm. - If you don't struggle with lying, the enemy's not gonna tempt you with a way out through lying. If you are not struggling with lust, the enemy is not going to The enemy will only offer Demons understand us. Demonic beings are very intelligent beings from another realm, that seek to destroy our faith. They understand human nature. They understand your patterns. They watch you closely, they've been watching humankind taking notes, understanding but our physiological - [Steven] Wow, wow, wow. - They can see your heart racing. They can see you begin to sweat. They can see you begin to fidget. They can see that their Demons will speak to you. What's the lie? What's the lie with the What is that lie that we believe? The lie is, this will satisfy you. The lie is, God won't punish this. The lie is, God can't satisfy And what does this cause? So the lie, we lie to ourselves, this is gonna say satisfy me. That's the only reason people sin. If you stopped in the moment of temptation and truly believed, this won't satisfy me, you wouldn't do it. But because of the lie that it satisfies, you tell yourself, maybe this and it keeps you moving forward further and further into sin. How does it leave you feeling? It leaves you feeling trapped. It leaves you feeling like a hypocrite. Makes you double minded. For one hour you're a to help set you free from this sin. The next hour, you're trying to where you won't get caught. Keeps you double minded, - going back and forth. The result? Habits form. You develop a secretive lifestyle. A guilty conscience. You feel distant from God. And then you come to a preacher and say, I need you to cast this devil out of me, if you're a believer, You need to come to know the truth. You need to come to know the truth that sin does not satisfy, and you need to learn to find Otherwise, this cycle will never break. You'll always be looking for You'll always be looking to break it off of your life. You can't cast you out of you. That temptation will always be something that the enemy uses, but don't - [Steven] Mm-hmm. Now, stronghold number four, I'm gonna reveal in just a moment. How many of you in the comment section, as I'm talking about these strongholds, can identify with them? And even to some degree, you are finding things about yourself. Who's finding things about themselves that they didn't realize right now? Let me know in the comment section, Steve, how's the chat doing? - Chat's doing amazing. I love some of these This one comes from our friend Emerson. &quot;I find it interesting that works with us to heal and give clarity, the demonic work with sin Powerful, and I also love &quot;We tend to forget, we We win. Hold onto the Word and hold Keep believing.&quot; So powerful, powerful time. Amazing, amazing sermon I mean, like I said, the comment section is so it's amazing. - So, again, I am not saying that demons nor am I saying that Christians What I'm saying is from strongholds and deception. We need deliverance differently So that's important Stronghold number four. Stronghold number four. Intimidation. Now in 2 Timothy, Paul the Not financially, like He's charging Timothy to embrace his call. He's charging Timothy to stir up the gift. He's saying, stir it up, What was the gift that he was in regards to Timothy? It was Timothy's preaching So Paul the Apostle is stir up that preaching gift. Stir up that teaching gift. How does he do it? Watch this, 2 Timothy 1:5-7. &quot;I remember your genuine faith. Where you share the faith that first filled your grandmother, Lois, and your mother Eunice. And now that same faith This is why I remind the spiritual gift of God, the when I laid my hands on you.&quot; Watch this now. &quot;For God has not given us a but of power, love, and self discipline.&quot; So something was causing Something was intimidating him, and this is what the enemy will do. He'll try to intimidate you He'll try to intimidate you He'll try to intimidate you He'll try to intimidate you to keep you from loving, to keep you from exercising to keep you from embracing the ministry that God has for you, to keep you from getting There are many things that to intimidate you out of doing. The fear of fulfilling Some of us struggle with the I had that for a while. I had these two for a while, the fear of tragedy and calamity So when my anxiety was at when I could have a simple Something as simple as a headache, and I would go Google it. Symptom, headache, and Oh my goodness. Every single time I would diagnose myself, I would think I had like days to live. Why, what is that? That's the spirit of fear. That's intimidation. That's the enemy trying to People fear tragedy and calamity. What if my loved one dies? What if someone gets in an accident? What if I get injured or hurt? Or what if this and that? And this constant barrage that is a stronghold of People fear sickness. People fear loss of job, of income, of influence, of loved ones. People fear loneliness, but here's how it works. The cycle works like So let's take the lie first. The lie is, you're unsafe. Or the lie is, you'll fail. And what's the feeling The feeling then becomes, You feel paralyzed. The action? What's produced by that feeling? You stay stuck. You try to do everything you and make sure there's or any chance of any loss, The result is there's no purpose. You take no risks. There's no acts of faith, you're stuck. And then you end up How am I paralyzed in my spiritual walk? Why am I constantly You don't realize that that you're unsafe or or that you'll fail, or that something bad is going to happen. That's the lie that keeps something bad may happen. But you know what? Ultimately, you can trust God. And the lie at the core So you try to address the the feeling of being unsafe, the thoughts that race through your mind, rather than going to the what is this lie that I'm believing that's not enabling me to So that was number four. So so far I've covered... Indoctrination, stronghold number one. Stronghold number two, accusation. Stronghold number three, temptation. Stronghold number four, intimidation. Now stronghold number five I'm gonna talk about, its depression, but let me just check in with I see someone says, &quot;So glad you're teaching It's a biblical psychology Well, you know, psychology And I appreciate that comment. I do wanna be clear though. It's not just psychology. This is the truth of the word of God. James George, &quot;fear sometimes ungodly wisdom, procrastination, How true that is, my friend. John Harry writes, amongst the world and unrecognizable&quot;, not sure the context of that. Patricia, &quot;Wow, you're Kim Briones, &quot;In agreement for deception, intimidation, and fear.&quot; Okay. I'm gonna show you guys how people start to confuse these for oppression, for curses, and then they get caught up that doesn't even exist in their lives. Again, Christians do need deliverance. And that deliverance is from deception. I'm gonna show you how But now we go on to the Now this one I have to There are things that Some sickness is demonic. Now, biblically, theologically, all sickness ultimately is at least an indirect result of the So it could be said that were it not for sin and However, this doesn't mean that every time sickness comes upon someone, that it is definitely Sickness can be caused by sin. But not all sickness is caused by sin. Sickness can be caused But not all sickness is Now, remember, or there are There's heart disease. There's kidney disease. There's disease of the bones. There are brain disorders. There are sicknesses can be agitated, by demonic influence, in and of themselves So then, depression can to a tragedy that we Now Christians shouldn't but that doesn't mean when we struggle with depression. I had a friend who I just ministered at, he He said, struggling with but our response to mental illness when people are struggling with it can be. The way we treat people can be sin. So just as you wouldn't berate for struggling with So we should not berate or criticize those who are struggling with mental illness. Now that's not to say Absolutely it can be demonic. But this doesn't mean has anxiety or depression, or something like that, that doesn't mean that we should just say, you know, you have issues, and you're not truly That makes it worse for them, okay? That causes more problems This is why I think it's important too, that we address the root of these issues. Because if you tell someone oh, that's a demon in you. Well, they don't know that as a Christian they can't have a demon attached to them. They don't know they can't be cursed. I mean, we know that from the scripture, but they may not know that. And so what this does a never ending cycle of And yeah, they may find for a few days or a few weeks. But if they never address they're gonna go back to thinking they're under that demonic influence when in fact it's a stronghold. So demons can prolong Let's say, for example, as I was saying, you lose a loved one. Of course, if you lose a loved one, you're going to feel heartbroken. You're going to feel downtrodden. You're going to feel the and the sorrow of that loss. But that does not mean that by natural means that the The enemy can get involved. And the enemy can agitate that situation. The enemy can prolong and by telling you lies. So let's say you lose a loved one. The enemy can agitate you'll never see him again. Or saying, God forgot about Or, the Lord doesn't love you. That's why he allowed Or God may not know what he's doing, or, you can't trust God in And that is what produces a prolonged and intensified depression. Though it was the result of a The enemy can still use it to grip you with this stronghold of depression. So Elijah the prophet I mean, he just got done And because he thought he he said, Lord, just let me die. You can see that in 1 Kings the prophet was depressed. Now the Lord didn't say, okay, you gotta go through this special session. You're gonna have to You're gonna go through this And he didn't have to go through that, he simply had to realize the truth, which was that he was not alone. Now please hear me. I am not... I don't want you to I'm very passionate I'm very passionate about that I believe contradict the scripture. I'll use passion, I'll use humor. But I want you to know if you're a believer, you're not my enemy, you're my brother, you're my sister. And I know that sometimes that contradict what we believe and it can feel like we're being attacked. And I promise you that is to make you feel attacked. I wanna help you. I wanna help you. And so when I say this, I'm and make you feel foolish or by any means. Rather, I want you to I want you to come to know that the emotional turmoil that we subject ourselves to. And by no means am I saying that anyone who disagrees isn't a man or a woman of God. I don't want you to think that at all. Like I said, you eat the but you don't just disregard because of these things. And I still honor many who believe and teach And I don't want you to think and you may hear someone that that means there's some oh my goodness, I have to pick one. No, no, no, we're, we're all in Christ. We're all brothers and sisters. And differences don't Having said that, I still always side with the word of God, because I want you to go free. So if you feel attacked by this, I want you to know that's not personal. I'm showing you something and I want you to compare And instead of getting offended, and I know that that's instead of saying, this doesn't or I don't know, this doesn't sound right. Ask yourself, why doesn't it sound right? And look at what the scripture teaches. Look at how things are That's our ultimate guide. So when someone's dealing with he was dealing with suicidal thoughts. Okay? And this isn't to say that Prayer is one of the tools But we have to put everything otherwise, what happens is that become more harmful So please don't feel attacking any person or any ministry. I would never do that in a million years, you couldn't get me to do it. So having said that, have peace, okay? Don't get all worked you say this, and I've heard this, and there are wonderful books you can go and listen to But I have to give you the Word. And I don't teach these things 'cause I like to stir things up. I teach these things because And it's my responsibility the ones who follow And again, I'll never name nor should you do that. But I'm saying this so So that you might overcome this and stop going through that let's say someone's And then they go through and the special sessions, and sometimes that just you get put things into your head, things get put in your and now you're trying to keep track of all these different things. And instead of just addressing the root, the lie that you're believing, you chase all these experiences and things that were I'll have more on that in a little bit. But I think with depression, it's important to at least Because, you know, it's key. It's key to getting free from this. So here's how the lie would That cycle you're in. You would believe you're you're without value you're And then the feeling of You feel heavy, disconnected, distant. You feel lifeless, you feel People who struggle with depression, people don't realize it's not Sometimes it's just this or makes you just go, what's And you just kind of have where you can't really Even though you're looking you still feel a huge And so depression can be Now what are the actions that are produced by these feelings? You're low energy, I'm Don't ever accuse people with That's like accusing people who can't walk physically of being lazy. There's something that's to be said of this type of struggle. They feel discouraged, they feel sorrow, they feel suicidal thoughts. And they're battling these things. And they need breakthrough, They do need deliverance from depression. They do need prayer, But how we go about it is so key. And what's the result in their life? They have no motivation for - [Steven] Wow. Now this most certainly is a A demon doesn't need to A demon doesn't need to to cause this behavior. It just needs to get you to believe a lie. Now I'm gonna get into before I do, write it if this is blessing you, type of it up, leave it there. Don't forget to share this Leave a like on the video, everyone go and like this video right now, because it actually helps all around the world. Also, if you're new to our stream, you're new to our channel. Don't forget to subscribe. We release teachings on the Holy Spirit, prayer, spiritual warfare. We also feature worship and we show footage of the power of the Holy Spirit in action. It's a wonderful channel. We call it the Holy Spirit's channel. It's His channel. - His means to do whatever He wants to do. So make sure you're subscribe to us, click that notification We release, I think like and then one video on Saturday and Sunday. Sometimes we miss Saturday and Sunday, but Monday through Friday, and we also do a Saturday So go ahead, like and share. You guys are at 1.5 likes. - Amazing. We love you, chat. Okay, number six, number six. The stronghold is distraction. And by the way, I'm gonna be Number seven is confusion, and number eight is and somebody might be watching Do not turn this broadcast off. And do not turn it off because I'm also gonna show you how to break the strongholds for good, it's very, very simple. Okay, stronghold number six, distraction. 1 Peter 5:8 says, &quot;Stay alert. Watch out for your great enemy the devil. He prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. That's 1 Peter, chapter 5, verse 8. So we have to keep our focus. Because the enemy works When our minds are off the battlefield, he'll keep you focused on one battle when you should be focused on another. How does he distract us? He distracts us with with detours from our destiny. He keeps us from reading the Word, from praying, from worshiping. You ever notice you open the Word, and you go to read the distractions, here, there, everywhere. All of a sudden the kids are hungry. All of a sudden you get nobody texts you or calls you all day. And suddenly the moment you just get lit up with and that's how it works. I'll tell you if nothing of the existence of your enemy, The fact that every time you that there are suddenly the pastor's teaching, the worship's happening, The enemy works by means of distraction. And it keeps us not focused on what truly needs to be focused on, the matters of the spirit. As I said, divisions are distractions. Debates are distractions. Detours are distractions. That's how the enemy And this is the lie he tells you. So here's how the cycle works for the stronghold of distraction. Here's how it works, you ready? The lie is, this needs your attention now. The lie is, this is The lie is, this is more The feeling, ego, why? Somebody says something to you wrong, or you hear somebody maybe a family member at a So and so said this. How about instead of going on Facebook and writing, some people, Like everyone knows who Or texting people, did you hear what so and so said about me? Why not just ignore it? Hey, that works. That's a distraction that to keep you from And how does it feel? Your ego is inflated. You get all fired up. You feel ambitious. You know how distraction works, those other two feelings here's how you can identify it. Distraction also makes you So, if there's something or something that causes it may just be a distraction. And what action is doing things that ultimately deter you or rob you of peace. And the result? You become ineffective, tense. You ever notice some people, they're just always worked up, intense? I mean, everything's a million mile, I mean, just this great And it just causes this uneasiness, and you leave there burdened? Do you know how you between anointed preaching Is preaching in the flesh and tense and all worked But true anointed preaching This doesn't mean that And if you're in sin it certainly won't But generally speaking, it Because even if you are in sin, you hear the preaching about repentance and how you can have peace with God, you get your sins forgiven. You leave with peace. So this tension, this this pressure, this ego inflating, ambitious pursuit to the in life or the things that That's the stronghold of distraction. Number seven, the stronghold of confusion. 1 John 4:1, &quot;Dear friends, who claims to speak by the &quot;You must test them to see if the spirit they have comes from God. For there are many false 1 Corinthians 14:33 says, of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints&quot;. Okay. I'm gonna park it here because this stronghold is a big one. - [Steven] Hmm. - And we gotta be very careful here. Do you realize that sometimes Now I know that's interesting to hear, you may be going what? Where's the scripture for that? Well, we know it's true because when you share the truth they in fact become confused. Here's how confusion works. Confusion works when I'm trying to mesh two contradicting mindsets together. - [Steven] Wow. - Now, when you believe a that contradicts the lies you Why? Because you say to yourself, wait a minute, wait a I believe this. But the Bible says that. Or I was taught this, but I'm confused. And I've been there. And you go, huh. And our first instinct is always to blame the new information for the confusion. Here's what's so subtle about this attack, please hear me now. This will save you so much trouble. We have the tendency to Don't blame in every Instead, try to find which information is backed by the Word. In fact, the enemy can use Have you ever talked that God is just love and You ever talk to them? You show them the scriptures, You tell them that God You know what they say? I don't know. Doesn't sit right with me. It's confusing what you're saying, 'cause I was always taught that God is a God of just pure love. And because they were never now, suddenly they become confused. But it's not the new information that's causing the confusion. It's the lie they're clinging to. So when you hear something that contradicts what you believe, even if you hold that Instead of saying, oh, I don't doesn't sit right with my spirit, really? It doesn't sit right with your spirit, or you just don't like the information and you're trying to - [Steven] Wow, wow. - Don't spiritualize your stubbornness. Instead, humbly come to What was it that caused this confusion? What was it in me that I was believing that caused me to be confused? Because it's not always that will confuse you. There have been times and I would find something in the Word that contradicted something I But you know what I didn't do? I didn't throw out the Word. I said, okay, I have So the enemy will use confusion The enemy will use confusion as a way to prevent you - [Steven] Wow. - Confusion prevents us from Because we become defensive. We say, oh, I don't like Oh, I don't like that I don't like that they're contradicting what I've always held to be true. I don't like that they're Nobody wants to believe they were wrong. Nobody. It's easier to fool someone than it is to convince - [Steven] Hmm. It's easier to fool someone than it is to convince them that they were fooled. And that's where the confusion comes from. So the confusion doesn't always come from the new information, from the fact that I'm that contradicts the Word. It's like this. Imagine you have two puzzles. Each of them are 1000 pieces. If you try to do one I don't know, maybe 1000 piece puzzles, takes me a while. And then I get the second puzzle, let's say I took the second puzzle. And I just mixed it in, both puzzles are now mixed in there, Now you have 2000 pieces That's gonna be near impossible to solve until you sort out what's one puzzle and what's the other. - So what happens is we hear information from the Word, we hear something that And rather than embracing let's check it with the word of God, we say that can't be because Or that can't be because I believe this. Or I have experiences that teach me this. And that confusion now is Rather what we should do is say, okay, here's what I believe. Here's what I'm being told. Let me check it with the Word. And then once you go to the Word, you get rid of all confusion. So confusion always results from believing conflicting information. If you are confused about something, it's because somewhere hidden in the midst of all those beliefs, doctrines and ideas is a lie. Maybe several of them. The key then is not to toss out the truth, but rather to identify The lie of confusion, here's how it works. Here's the lie. What I believe couldn't I couldn't possibly have been deceived. What I believe couldn't possibly be wrong. That's our ego. And that lie clings to the ego. What is that feeling produced? The feeling produced is we're offended. We're unsure, we get uneasy whenever our beliefs are contradicted. And so what's the action? The action we take is to instead of submitting to scripture. And the result? You stay bound in the lie, That's how the stronghold Guys, we have a new record here. We are at 1800 concurrent viewers. Can you believe that? - [Steven] Powerful. - And this is only of nine weeks, right Brittany, nine weeks? Nine weeks of doing this stream, this format in this time slot. So it's basically a new stream. That's almost 1900 viewers guys, thank you so much. You are the absolute best. Don't forget to like, comment, and share. Okay. On the point of confusion, I So Jaya writes, &quot;Boom, stubbornness!&quot; Odane, &quot;Question, so the or text me when I begin are they somehow be being used Possibly. This doesn't mean they're demon possessed. This just means the enemy can maybe put thoughts in people's minds or maybe the timing of it is And the fact that he's So it doesn't necessarily have but it could be that the text arrived at the time of your prayer, But the fact that you're instead of praying could be Yeventy writes, &quot;That's I see, Patricia said, &quot;That's so true, when I believe something, when another idea comes from the Word, I get a little confused&quot;. Yeah, and the confusion So instead of saying, well, that doesn't sit right in my spirit, or I can't listen to that anymore, 'Cause you just can't. - That's immaturity. What we have to do is embrace the Word and humble ourselves before it. Eva Cortez says, &quot;Send an We'll see if we can put that together. I'm looking at Teacher Karla do not spiritualize stubbornness.&quot; Guys, I do it too. This is not just you. This is me, I'm preaching to myself. We do this. We spiritualize our stubbornness, and we get all worked up and offended. I remember there was this he was teaching on excellence in ministry. And this is when I was first learning about excellence, really. And I didn't like some some of the traditional Not doctrinal, or it or even really methods, just the style I was doing things in. And he kind of criticized who is this guy criticizing me? And I got all offended, I'm saying to myself, oh, that That guy wasn't even spiritual. I'm like, oh, he grieved the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit told me, I'm not grieved, you're convicted. - [Steven] Oh, come on. - And I said, what? And I had to realize, and I tried to spiritualize well actually my spirit is just grieved, my spirit is just grieved. No, I was convicted, I was wrong, and I had to change my belief. So, so don't spiritualize Don't say, well, I'm confused. I can't listen to this any more. Instead, test it with the Word. That will clear up everything. Now I'm not saying go delve into every teaching that's out there. You can get into some pretty weird things. Rather, what I'm saying is filter everything through the Word, and that clears up the And don't just reject because they're different rather, compare it with scripture. Enya, &quot;When we get confused we have to search it out great point, Enya. Because sometimes people read and they kind of just put the book away, and that's not a very good place to be. Like, comment, share, Thank you, spirit family. You got us to 1800 viewers. This is a new record for us. - Nine weeks in, we're at And the channel is growing by the week. I think like almost 2000 is what we're going towards. So you guys are amazing, If you're wondering why it's because numbers represent Stronghold number eight. Affliction. This is mental torment, mental anguish. Did you know Paul the Ah, interesting. Paul the Apostle dealt with torment. 2 Corinthians, chapter 12, &quot;Even though I have received such wonderful revelations from God. So to keep me from becoming proud, I was given a thorn in my flesh.&quot; And he very clearly says what it is. &quot;A messenger from Satan to torment me and keep me from becoming proud.&quot; Guys, he says it, it's a demon. &quot;Three different times I begged Each time He said, My My power works best in weakness, so now I am glad to so that the power of Christ Now, Paul was not possessed. Paul was not oppressed. Paul was not demonized. Paul was not cursed. Paul had a messenger of Satan Antagonizing his mind with words. Grace was the solution for Paul's torment. Now I am not saying that you have to accept torment in your life. I don't think Paul lived under I think he just lived with because the grace of God So I'm not saying you have Don't hear what I'm not saying. Rather what I'm saying is the power to overcome it. So rather than seeking out or a special type of ritual seek out the ways of the and that is what sets you free. So the cycle goes like this. The lie is the troubling thought. The feeling? You're tormented. The action? You become paranoid and neurotic. And the result is you lack peace. Now I had a woman at one I taught on spiritual warfare. And sometimes what I'll do in I think there was like maybe So it was more like a classroom setting. What I did is I did a Q&amp;A, they passed around the microphone, Rubin had the microphone, and we just let people ask questions. And this woman asked me this when I start to pray, This is what she said, I see a snake. I said, okay. She goes, what do you think that is? I said, I think that could be distraction or the enemy attempting to torment you. She says, how do I go about defeating it? I said, just continue to pray. And she didn't like that answer. She kept, she kept like, on and on. She goes, you remember that, Steve? - [Steven] I do. - She didn't like the answer. And she kept saying, well, no, no, no. But it happens when I pray. I said, yeah, keep praying. She said, no, no, no, I see a snake, which is the And I said, what do you You want me to tell you that you have to renounce this, this, this, and this? Do you want me to tell you that you have to identify where it's coming, you want me to tell you that and I'm not being facetious, These are the types of I'm not trying to mock anyone here. These are the types of thoughts, the thought patterns They wanna be told, well I and find out, maybe my and if I go and I break that, then the I said, first of all, you're by giving it so much of your attention. And second of all, there's of the holy ghost can't break. And so I think we seek out of being set free from these things, when you need to understand the presence and power of God, Isaiah 26:3 says, &quot;Thou wilt whose mind is stayed on Thee, When you have your mind there's perfect peace. There's breakthrough in that area. And God wants to give that to you, okay. So those are some of the strongholds that you could be affected by. I didn't get to cover, number nine and 10 would Addiction's a whole different message for a whole different time. - [Steven] Right. - But it is a stronghold. So stronghold one, indoctrination. Stronghold two, accusation. Three, temptation. Four, intimidation. Five, depression. Six, distraction. Seven, confusion. Eight, affliction. Now how do you break free from these? I'm gonna give this to you. And then you're probably not - [Steven] Hmm. - And I say that because sometimes when we get lost we seek out very specific instructions for our very specific situations. Now I'm not saying that I mean, counseling helps very specific issues and those are all very helpful things. Especially if you're using the word of God to help fight the battle. Number one, you have to receive the Word. Now this may seem basic. But it is the way you break When you receive the Word in your life, you're allowing light to shine. The more of the Word that you receive, the less powerful these Number two, meditate on the Word. Once a stronghold is exposed, it's easier to monitor your thoughts or control your thoughts. Now, the scripture how to think and what to think. Think on these things. The scripture would not command us to do something that we - [Steven] Mm-hmm. So when the scripture says it's telling you something So you have the power to to control them and to tear them down. How do you do that? With the Word. So when the enemy tells Ah, the scripture says I'll When the scripture tells you can point to all of the scriptures, like 1 Corinthians, chapter that tell us to not sin. When the scripture contradicts the lie, that's when you begin to see freedom. So I meditate on the Word. And meditation isn't Meditation is thinking about the Word. You know that when you it's like water rushing through your mind, washing your mind. How do you wash your mind with the Word? You run the Word through it. Kind of like when you put If your hands are really dirty some of you who cook, like with dough, you get the dough all over your hands. And what do you have to do? You run it under water. And the water, the is what removes the things from your hand. In the same way, it's the that removes these lies from the mind. You have to constantly So you may say, well, Now, wait a minute, wait Did you really? Because the scripture says, &quot;Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on Thee.&quot; The word of God works. Let God be true, and every man, a liar. God's Word works. - [Steven] Come on. - God's Word works, period. So you have to wash your mind. The problem comes when we and then go get it dirty again and our Instagram scrolling We wash our minds with the Word, and then we go listen to music that makes it all filthy again. We wash our minds with the Word, and then we go obsessing about thoughts that are not biblical. We wash our minds with the Word, And then we go off on these Because they're fascinating yet they cause more torment Wash your mind with the Word. Keep a steady flow of the Word. Number three, obey the Word. The Word will only work for And that takes discipline. That takes time. There is no Christian who makes daily contact but who makes daily contact Who lives a lifestyle of worship, who lives a lifestyle of There is no Christian Did you hear what I said? There is no Christian who makes who makes daily contact with who practices a lifestyle of worship, who practices a lifestyle of repentance and who walks in holiness. That Christian is not in bondage. That Christian in bondage does not exist. Look in the New Testament. You didn't see a whole lot or the church leaders. Look in the New Testament, you didn't see a whole lot of talk about how to overcome these things, why? Because the Christian If you're not walking in that freedom, you're settling for less than Now I know that may sound harsh, but I don't mean it to be harsh. I mean it to be encouraging, oh, already tried that, and There's the lie you believe. I already tried that, and Those are the lies that Well, it worked for me for a little bit, and then it stopped. Did it stop working, or Did it stop working, or Did it stop working, or did you fall back into Because you have to to practice these spiritual disciplines. You have to do it. I can't lay hands on you See, we wanna hear, oh, it's a curse. So you pray for me, you break it. Yeah, okay. I'll pray for you, you may You may be healed from the effects of the stronghold in that moment. But if you don't address that mindset and that pattern of thinking, you're just gonna go back into it again. Number four, prayer. Now prayer can break the This is so key. So let's say I come under because of a lie I'm believing. Let's say I believe the Okay, I believe that or everybody hates me. I believe that lie. It produces feelings of heaviness in me. And then that produces Now someone can pray for me, and I can experience I can experience breakthrough I may feel this joy imparted, That's a break, that's deliverance. That's the breaking of a bondage. But if I don't address that stronghold, and I don't allow the Word to change my patterns of thinking, and I don't allow God to work in my life through spiritual what's gonna happen? I'm gonna go right back into that pattern. I'm gonna go right back to Because I didn't take the time to break that stronghold. Prayer works. But you must also enact discipline. Number five, faithfulness. You have to be faithful You can't just do this for well, it didn't work for me, I'm done. No, no, it takes time to It takes for the Word to wash. It's a process. That deliverance for And that's how you break the strongholds. And that's how you stay free. Practice the spiritual basics and you will avoid spiritual crisis. Practice the spiritual basics - and you will avoid spiritual crisis. Now, I'm gonna get into something here that's gonna challenge the But I'm not doing this to upset you. It's just a slight shift. It's really not even that different from what probably most But it's a slight shift, so First, let me give you my view on spiritual war, very simple. Demons exist. Demon possession is real. Deliverance is key. Spiritual warfare should be Five, unbelievers need Six, believers need not possession, not oppression, not curses, not demonization. Now here's where I'm gonna talk 'Cause some would say, well, David, you call it a curse, or I call it a curse, you Why is that important? Because if we don't get the problem right, we won't get the solution right. - [Steven] Come on. - Now this effect that This effect of heaviness, or torment or confusion or all those effects of strongholds. This is what Christians sometimes confuse for demon possession. This is what Christians sometimes confuse for oppression or demonization or curses. So it's still a very real You need deliverance. But it's important that we Again, if you believe differently, I'm not trying to attack you. I'm not trying to tear you down. And I'm not trying to discredit anybody who teaches differently. Remember, watermelon, eat the watermelon, spit out the seeds, we're all brothers and sisters in Christ, we all love each other. There's no need for division, but I wanna teach this because A, I've been teaching this for years and I've seen it help people. And B, I want you to know this truth Now... Don't let the enemy redirect the battle. If you're fighting a curse when you should be you'll never be free. - [Steven] Hmm. If you're fighting demon possession, when you should be fighting If you're fighting what you think is demonization and oppression, when you should be addressing mindsets, you will never be free. And that's why people get I wanna help you get unstuck. I care about you, I love you. And I want you to get unstuck. I don't want you to go through cycles again and again and again. I don't want you to be tormented. I don't want you to feel defeated. I don't want you to return to I want you to be free. Now. Christians don't need demons expelled, they need lies exposed. Now it is often the case that a Christian will confuse a stronghold oppression, demonization, and a curse. It's also often the case that a Christian will confuse, let me say this clearly. It is also often the case that a Christian will confuse getting set for getting set free oppression, demonization, or a curse. Now why is this important? I'm gonna tell you now. It's not just semantics. That's like saying, you call Okay, that's that's pretty Well, you call it cancer. I call it a broken bone. You still need to go to the hospital, yes. In general, the solutions But it's this specific that brings forth freedom. Now watch this. Nowhere in the New I'm gonna say this again, I don't wanna fumble over my words. I want these to be sharp and pointed. Nowhere in the New Testament anything resembling an exorcism. Spirit filled believers, now I believe in demon possession. I believe we need deliverance ministries. I'm talking specifically now about Christian demon possession. Nowhere in the New Testament anything resembling an exorcism. Nowhere in the New have demons cast out of them. Some would say that Acts chapter 8 may be an example of that, they say, well, they heeded Philip's words, No, no. The actual Greek means to what Philip was saying, but this doesn't mean and repented of sins. This same is said of who listened to Paul the - [Steven] Hmm. They listened intently to him, So it's possible to listen so Acts 8 is not an example of Christians having demons cast out of them. Nowhere in the New put through rituals and Nowhere in the New Testament, with a demon and not be aware of it. Nowhere in the New Testament do we see asymptomatic demon So this idea that I could In the New Testament, there And again, this is not an attack on you if you believe differently, I love you. You're my brother, you're my sister, we're on the same team. We just so happen to teach And I want you to know that, to try to cause in your mind division. This is just something that that we might look at spiritual warfare. We need spiritual warfare, we need deliverance ministries, And the reason I teach I'm teaching against the old me, because I used to teach these things. And I have a responsibility now to correct some of these things. And I'm doing this because Now these practices cause you thus repeating the same cycle. So, if you have a stronghold deliverance from a demon, that's very highly And I'm not discounting that experience. The question is, were you set free from demon possession or were you set free from - [Steven] Wow, wow, wow. - Now the issue is once you get set free, if you don't learn to practice If you don't learn the disciplines of these spiritual practices, if you don't change the way you think, if you don't address the no matter how many times where you feel set free, you will always eventually And this has to do with going to a mature believer's mindset. From constantly needing the feeling of freedom, to trusting in the Word for your freedom. So by practicing, I'll say it again, practicing the spiritual basics, you avoid spiritual crisis. I'll give you some examples. Let's say you're really tired, okay? You're exhausted. Is it better for you to go to sleep or just have an energy drink? Let's say you are dealing Is it better for you to Or is it better for you Let's say you're dealing or your blood, let's say Is it better for you to start or to start taking all sorts and just mask the symptoms? - [Steven] Hmm. - Just like sleep is Just like healthy thinking Just like healthy eating and exercise is better than medication. So addressing the root of the stronghold is better than seeking after experiences. Now you can be in services, and we have services all the they go out under the power of God, they're weeping, they're and they're getting delivered from the effects of a That should happen. But by no means should we Now, if they're an unbeliever, quite possibly it is demon possession. But the reason I think it's so important that we address these correctly and label these things correctly is so we can get to the root. Otherwise what happens is we'll get set free from Yes we get our breakthrough. Yes, you have an experience. I'm not saying your I'm saying you gotta change the way you look at the experience and say, okay, what actually did happen in that moment? Did God touch you, yes. Did you experience freedom, yes. But what was it you It was from the symptoms of a stronghold. So the solution then, yes, Yes, it's the power of the Holy Spirit. Yes, it's worship, yes, but you've gotta now go back And remember, don't wait for your feelings to assure you of something you should already know by the Word. Now, ironically, I get testimonies People message me, Brother David, I had always believed I had a And I had to go through deliverance every three weeks, every week. They said now, after I learned the truth, I've been free for months, And I'm telling you that alone is worth teaching these things. And ironically being set free or a demon or oppression, ironically, that belief being removed is almost like having a demon removed. And so again, some people confuse these Let me say this again, all my viewers understand this. If you hear someone teaching it doesn't mean they're my enemy. It doesn't mean I'm against them. It doesn't mean you should It doesn't mean I'm attacking them. In fact, I make sure that that I'm not addressing or anything like that, or And in fact, we plan our content about six months in advance. Additionally, we need Additionally, we need That should be a part of What I'm saying is that Christians need deliverance from strongholds, unbelievers need oppression, demonization, and curses, and the believer should never undergo anything that resembles an exorcism. Can you have an emotional experience? Will your body tremble Yes. But will it demon take over No. And I think the scary truth is that if a demon has the body of someone and speak for them, the scary truth is that maybe that person wasn't saved to begin with, or they're not really having an experience of a demon taking them over. So we have to look at it biblically. I'm not saying there's I'm not saying, oh, throw all that out. I wanna just make sure that And again, I've been goodness, what was it And so I don't want you to think that this is an attack on anyone. By no means, I don't want Well David's at odds with No, no, no. I love, honor, respect And I don't want people to think that, I would never be involved like a theology feud or debate. Even if someone, you know, I leave it alone because in things like that, on the ministry and the gospel. And don't be all worked up you know, like almost dread Some of my preachers all These are disagreements among brethren. And it doesn't mean that you have to stop listening to people or Just again, like eating a watermelon. Eat the watermelon, spit out the seeds. And even with ministry, even with me, there may be some seeds that when you compare and maybe one day there's on some of the things but we're all learning. We're all studying the Word together. We're all trying to get this right. And so I have a responsibility so you can break those cycles. So, love you guys, and And any believer who you're not my enemy. I love you to pieces. And if you wanted to talk we do this all the time even on staff, some of our staff members, we have discussions and things. So that is what I wanted to clarify. And I wanna make sure in teaching this, please don't ever mistake my passion, sometimes I'm very passionate And sometimes I use humor. But I don't want you to ever I love my brothers and sisters in Christ, and I want you to be at peace. And the only reason I'm sometimes I'll get messages you taught this, someone taught this. Should I stop listening? And I say, no, no, no, no, no, These are great ministries. And again, we're all growing. So we all love each other, and And I hope that's clear. I will always choose unity, always. And one more thing, and I will never get involved Don't even think, don't Don't say, oh, David's doing this. No, no. I will never be involved You have to rise above that. You have to rise above that so you can stay focused on the call. We have souls to win. I don't have time to be So on curses, I thought And then we're gonna pray some teachings or some questions here. I wanted to show you Here's the reason why I teach that Christians can't be In the New Testament, it literally means they're Like damned for eternity. I'll show you that in Romans 9:3 says this. Now this is powerful because that he would be willing, That he would be willing if it means that the Think about that, what he's saying. Paul is saying, I'd be for all eternity. If it would be saved. Now that obviously wasn't required. And Paul didn't have to go to hell in order for them to be I want this so bad that I'd if it meant that the Jews would be saved. But look at how he words this, Romans 9:3. &quot;For my people, my Jewish I would be willing to be forever cursed&quot;, and look, he defines cursed. &quot;I would be willing to be forever cursed, cut off from Christ, if Matthew 25:41. &quot;The king will turn to those on the left and say, away with you, you cursed ones, into the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his demons.&quot; One more. 1 Corinthians 16:22. &quot;If anyone does not love the Whoa. So in the New Testament, you're saying they're cut off from Christ. Now in John chapter 7, the only ones who taught, I saw this and it jumped oh my goodness, what a powerful truth. You know that the only ones who taught that believers can be They taught that, they said that. In John 7, the only ones who taught that Christians can be Look at this, John 7:47-49. These are the Pharisees speaking now. &quot;Have you been led astray so they're mocking the Lord. &quot;Is there a single one who believes in Him?&quot; So they're saying none Then look at verse 49. The Pharisees speaking. &quot;This foolish crowd follows Him.&quot; So they're talking about &quot;But they are ignorant of the law. God's curse is on them.&quot; So the only ones who ever taught that the followers of were the Pharisees when they And the reason this is important is because I talk to so many and the pastor or leader because you left the man of God. And that person lives in torment, so here's what they do. They believe the lie, oh my goodness, I'm cursed, I'm cursed, I'm cursed. That produces fear, remember guys, these cycles, this is how it works. I'm exposing it now. They believe I'm cursed, I'm They believe that lie that they're cursed, which produces the feelings of fear, which bring about actions based on fear, which create the lifestyle of bondage. And then what do they do? They go (gasps) the curse is working. That's how it works. Because they believe that ultimately it was what brought about the feelings that they were cursed. So no, people can't The people of God are blessed. And you cannot bless what God curses. Now in the scripture, 2 Peter 2:14, we see that there are those but this is not speaking This is speaking of God's curse. And A, it's God's curse, B, C, the key is repentance, not a ritual. D, it wasn't generational. And E, they are not redeemed And you can see that in In 2 Peter, chapter 2, we see that those who are not believers. This is a punishment for false teachers, not a strategy of demonic beings. Plus nothing says that were ever actually saved We see an example of this, &quot;Let God's curse fall or even an angel from heaven who preaches a different kind of gospel.&quot; Again, God curses false teachers. That is not a demonic The key is repentance, not ritual. So that's very different you hear about generational curses. So I say all that to say that doesn't mean we totally discount some of these teachings, guys, I just want to teach what This is what I teach on spiritual warfare, based on the scripture. Not for any other reason and this is what I teach so that the people of God might go free. So I wanna pray with you now. And now is the moment. Now is the moment for I'm gonna pray that God would heal you. Set you free. Deliver you from the The heaviness, the fear, Dreams that you may be having, (choral music) but you have to know the truth you are the righteousness You are a child of God. You are filled with the Holy Spirit. What know ye not, that your body is the You're not your own. You are redeemed. You are spirit filled. You are being sanctified. You are justified. You are in right standing with God. You are seated in heavenly May these bondages be broken Now what I want you to do in I want you to begin to Do not, please do not be Because there are hundreds couple thousand, really, And I want everyone watching to pray for these So you see the requests I want you to pray for those people. Let's believe together. And we're gonna break the right now, it's gonna be broken today. And then you're gonna Then you're gonna stay free, why? Because you're gonna implement You're not gonna wait for your feelings to confirm with the word of God, I sense such a strong I hear such a strong anointing Begin to pray right now, come on. So Father in the name of Jesus. I thank you, Lord, that You Thank You that You're breaking Thank You that You're exposing lies. We uproot those lies right I speak freedom right now Lord, that would even cause the core of our faith. Lord, those doctrines that Jesus isn't the only way. I rebuke that now in Jesus' let us not fall away because of deception. Come on, pray right now in the holy ghost. God's doing something. (speaking in tongues) Jesus, we honor you. Wow, such a strong anointing. Father I pray You begin Every bondage. Bondages of depression. Bondages of intimidation, we break its power now. Affliction, that mental torment God has given you grace. I pray Lord that with Your truth, You would silence every lie of the enemy. Let them know that they're free. Whom the son sets free is free indeed. Sometimes it's simply the that makes you feel bound. Be set free in the name of Jesus. You are redeemed. You belong to the Lord. And nothing else. The Lord owns you. You're his possession. The Holy Spirit takes up residence in you. We bind the power of the enemy, we break the power of that power is broken. In the wonderful name of Jesus, we pray. - [Steven] Amen. - And all of God's - Amen. What wonderful truth the We're gonna take your Let me just hear from you What are some of the things that have been broken off of you today? And write into me, write me on Instagram. Send me a message on Send an email to us. Write your testimony because is breaking off bondages from his people. And by the way, you guys Here's what I'll do. I'll fill this in since If we get to 2000 likes while we're live, we'll pick a winner, I'll to one of the services, any we'll fly you out, you and a friend, and we'll take care of So that's if you get to that's only two away. You already get the books coming, so let's see about that ministry trip. You can come, you can come and serve and be a part of the service. You can just come and maybe Steve and I will take you to dinner or something. 2 Corinthians, chapter 9. I'm gonna read verses 6 to and then we're gonna take your questions. Don't go anywhere. I wanna talk to you. 2 Corinthians chapter 9, &quot;Remember this. A farmer who plants only a few But the one who plants generously You must each decide in And don't give reluctantly for God loves a person Now watch this. To those who give this is the promise of scripture. &quot;And God will generously Now here's a real key promise. &quot;Then you will always&quot;, not sometimes. &quot;Then you will always have everything&quot;, not some things. &quot;Then you will always And this is my favorite part. &quot;And plenty left over Wow. - [Steven] Hmm. - Verse 10. &quot;For God is the one who and then bread to eat. In the same way, He will provide and then produce a great Yes, you will be enriched in every way so that you can always be generous.&quot; What's the purpose of why The purpose of God is so that you can be Now, I know we hear all sorts of things about the world today. You hear of economic collapse. You hear of things falling apart. You hear of this currency weakening and this cryptocurrency taking off. And there seems to be so much instability in the world today. And because of that instability, we can become a little nervous. Come on, we're all human. And I think we can all admit we all get a little nervous sometimes when we hear these things. But I just wanna remind you. You can have perfect peace, don't look to the conditions of the world to determine your giving. Ecclesiastes says that the one who considers the weather will never sow. So if you're constantly and the conditions, you'll But if you turn your focus instead to God, and you see that he's gonna not only is he gonna meet every need, he's gonna give you enough leftover to share with those around you. So he's gonna bless you to be a blessing. That's prosperity. Prosperity is being able to bless others, imagine having all your needs met, and then being able to buy if they're struggling. Then being able to send to help house those children. Being able to help pay being able to help pay for Or maybe someone has And God blesses you and Things like this are why we give, because then we can God looks at you and he sees ah, I can trust that So I'm asking you my dear if this message blessed you, if you appreciate the content if you want to get behind and help us continue to create the videos, to continue to do the live streams, continue to do the events around the world and continue with the Holy Spirit school, then sow into the ministry, and so much more. Just a general account to the ministry. Now our events are growing. Do you know that starting in September, we are now switching The Denver service? That's gonna be at the Aurora because churches can't hold So now we're switching so it's gonna be a little we we're widening the net So help us do it. - [Steven] Come on. Go right now to look, I know you love the Lord. I know you love souls. I know you love this ministry. You are generous, you And I thank you for that. So I need you to go now. DavidHernandezMinistries.com/donate, and give a one time gift. Give something generous, Really you're saying, Lord, here's my gift because I love you. Give something generous. Are there two or three who could do $1000? Is there one person watching Maybe that's you, maybe and God has given you resources. The rest of you, do $25. Do $50, do $100, someone can do 500. These are the amounts we're but give as the Lord leads you. Go and give right now. DavidHernandezMinistries.com/donate. Give a one time gift, become We accept gifts from all You just go to that website and the form will adjust Go and give so we can continue Go and give because you believe in this, because you want to see souls saved. And I will see the names of all the givers come in on my phone. Those of you giving at I'll be able to see them come through. Thank you to those of you I'll be able to read the names which goes to my email. So DavidHernandezMinistries.com/donate, Give to the gospel because Stand behind us, stand with, you know we have thousands of So when you partner with us, you're not just joining hands with us. You're joining hands with And I can see those gifts from all over the world, And Carmen and Pauline, and and Dolce and Valerie. I see names coming in Elizabeth and Michelle and Daisy, thank you, thank you, We need the people of God these one time gifts they really make all the Thank you for doing this. Again. I need two or three of you watching. You have it on your heart, you can do it. Give the gift of a thousand. Maybe there's one person And I don't do this often. And this is not a gimmick. I'm not saying this because, you know, I really believe that or anything like that. I'm of the impression right now that there's someone And maybe you just needed Maybe you were considering it. You needed that little extra nudge. This is how we win the We back ministries like this. This ministry is exploding. I mean, explosive growth, like I think 300% growth on YouTube alone in the past 40 days. That's huge. This ministry is going and growing and it only is just getting started. Thank you Carlton for and giving that very generous gift, David and Jeremiah and Jay and Valerie, and so many others who are sowing. Enya, what a beautiful and so forth, and I'll be If you're giving, you can also give, even if we're not live and