So it was definitely a tough decision. I had some shares plus stock options longer, yeah, yeah, I could have made And it was a sizable amount of money but I couldn't wait longer. In the end, I was approaching 30, in Silicon Valley someday. It's now or never, so I decided. I remember going to this cafe So I went there, opened my laptop I sat down and I got lost. Nobody was looking for me. Nobody. When I was working at Oracle, I had like But, after several months after quitting were only a couple, like, spam emails. Even those spam emails I. At least someone cares about me Hello, I'm Sung M Cho, Chartmetric is a data analytics tool We have all the major labels and we have hit $7 million Before I founded Chartmetric game company called Gamevil, I went to study MBA at UCLA, joined Oracle as a product manager, It was not my original intention Frankly speaking, I was a student. I loved learning more That's when I met It was about game programing, I joined as a first employee Later, the company decided the mobile game department or division. It was a like ever since the company team, which was only like 2 or 3 people Over time it grew to 50 or more people I was able to take risks, It was one of a kind experience so it was definitely a tough decision. If I waited longer, yeah, yeah, stock options, but I wanted to start my It's now or never, so I decided. I joined a big tech company Oracle has offices everywhere Every major city you go. So it was a great feeling to be part But at the same time, what stifled me, and once customers sign with Oracle, those clients have to pay monthly fees. To me, it seemed like it was in a bad way. Tax collection agency I remember that the in cash profit per month. It was incredible. After working for 5 to 6 years, By working only for like four hours. And still I made money. So Oracle is famous for acquiring and they are so good at that. They purchased these companies and bring So as an insider, our company is buying other companies. But, no, that's not how I felt. Innovations are happening outside, longer, I may have less and less chance of If you succeed, then you can be proud So that's what I wanted in my life. So what I realized was, I think the three things have to match. You have to feel passionate You have to be good at this. You have to have some skills You need to find some people But in many cases, it's that can have satisfies these conditions. So that's what I wanted to be careful But it was hard. So I dropped every idea. After several months, after quitting, I had absolutely nothing to do. I remember that feeling. I called a friend, asked him, you know, And he said one thing, I know exactly how you feel. I've seen many people So my advice is just move forward. Because that was an advice who had done this and who made it, That also relieved some stress have to make ten steps forward, per day. I was I wanted to make like huge steps per I just decided to go one step at a time. And that's what I have been doing ever since starting a company. After seven years we are approaching Universal Music Group, Sony, Warner, as well as tech companies such as Netflix, They are our customers. Also, Pandora Radio, services in the United States. After one and a half years the company was running out of money, that this is a product worth paying for. So I don't think we were ready to charge, because we ran out of money. I could just go back to the investors Instead of doing that, that there's somebody there's somebody who For a couple of months, moving money from my personal bank account I just stayed there and just making it better, and like putting We did it and we announced to the users for free, but it will be limited. If you want full features, for premium, $65 for standard tier. So we put that price in there and began I sent an email to beta testers, it was like 100 people total. I don't think it was really we're ready. But anyway, I began and surprisingly, like in the morning, we deployed Will there be anyone? Just someone in the world out there, out who saw the value, and who saw the Monthly subscriptions, $95 or something. I got a notification year's worth of subscription. His name was Rene McLean from RPM Group what just happened. I just wished that someone That would have made my day. But somebody paid $950 It was crazy. It was incredible. I remember, like, jumping around the after 20s of jumping and dancing, that this could be a mistake. Somebody didn't intend Who would? You know, we just put up a like a paying this startup, who didn't prove anything, And this startup may disappear year full worth of subscription. So I emailed back right away You know, even if he says that he I'll give you a refund. That's fine. And I called him He said he has been using chat metric and he saw how fast we were iterating, Yeah, actually it got some value from, So he when we announced that we he wanted to pay, but instead of paying So I asked him like, why? You know why? Yearly annual subscription. You know, I can never forget what he said. He said, I'm running, my own agency here I know how cash is precious some extra cash could help you. So I decided And anyway, I'm going to use this product so paying for annual subscription So that was not a mistake. Plus, somebody trusted me so much that he prepaid for the service one for one year. And also he said He could apply this tool and make some real difference. That was the day when I finally thought For SaaS companies. It's incredibly difficult to get those have to gain this much trust that they That also means that if once you get the that you really exceed their expectations. This is what I think. So first couple customers, or this product is still in early stage. They know that, but they still decided I was so appreciative of that somebody, and they are willing to pay. So my focus was to deliver something Then what happens to those first customers was still like being baked. It's not a delicious bread yet, It's still edible. So I ate that bread. I purchased that bread. Guess what? The bread is now much more delicious, and you get delighted. Okay, you know you have this pride. I discovered this bakery Bread was okay in the beginning. But since I paid for that bread, and develop the skill further and purchase came back with even more delicious bread. Then I feel like I contributed This is the reciprocity that happens. And you can that you can also Many investors asked me question Why would those customers come to you Frankly speaking, I never had I always struggled. This is something I learned Everyone focuses on competitive advantage. So we were at Gamevil. We wanted to become different So we tried different taste. You know, everyone drinks Coke, or lemon Coke, vanilla Coke to the market. Do you think people want that? So that's what I believe you're not necessarily trying You try to build build something quite But if you pursue that vision then someday your product is different. So human psychology is quite complex. People do not make those decisions Price, of course, So what we did, at least in the beginning, at half of our competitors price. So that is super visible. We also offer something similar, That provides the signals at least that's the competitive advantage. Let me give it a try. Let me give it a try. So that's one thing we did Nowadays our price is no longer but we are actually more expensive. But that was the the difference. Over time we kept on building now looking different of course. And also we have more data than our any of So we have now many different ways that And there is this one interesting event competitor called Next Big Sound. When I started this company, it was by Pandora Radio for roughly $50 million. And they got acquired. It was a really good product. I learned so much from Next big sound, Sound is no longer going to be their focus so that they shut down last year. You know what happened when you go why they decided to shut down the service And the last bullet point says, go to Chartmetric. So this is my my formula, by the way. Internally in my mind, of the tool should be one tenth of if you did not use this product. That's my belief. someone, that person should at least save $1,400 per month by using our product, then it's the right pricing. If they save only half like you know, they have to pay $280, That's just my own yardstick that I have. Totally. If you did not use Chartmetric If you try to get this much insight, you Very much like you have to hire to write down all these numbers, You write down a human. If you hire someone to do this manually, than $2,000~3,000 easily. If you hire an engineer initially, until you build something easily. The cost of doing this on your own. I'm not talking about like two or independent artists I'm talking about. Even for big companies, if they try to build this on their own, So, yeah, we we, And for independent artists, We only charge $20 a month to them. When you build a SaaS tool or a business, As a founder, are you willing to put Are you ready to do that? Long Term vision for me is to see indispensable tool in the beginning. We began this service when we first made You can take it. Nothing happens. Maybe you feel you have a little less We became more and more important, but I wouldn't say There are alternatives. And also, you can still survive in this business. There are some other examples or some softwares became indispensable. One such example is Bloomberg. When you are in finance, not imagine doing That was our initial vision. Bloomberg for the music industry was our model. And still it is. That's my goal. That's my dream. Building such a product Any such business That's my theory. Nothing important can be built If you think about all these products you feel like they were born overnight. You feel like because you only discovered After seven years of grinding, can happen within ten years. At least that's my belief. It's been seven years, Three more years to go or even longer.