- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, We're at a really exciting time, where the number of crewed vehicles going to the International Space Station will go from just one to three. The Soyuz's eight year monopoly for getting humans up to the is finally coming to an end. So today we're gonna take a deep dive on the two new spaceships that for taking humans to and from the International Space So we're gonna compare the Boeing Starliner, to SpaceX's Crew Dragon And to see how we've progressed in the world of human spaceflight, all of these systems alongside and the United States' in a side by side comparison. We'll take a look at the the dimensions, the cost, and any other unique feature Considering I've been with SpaceX's Crew Dragon I think I've got some pretty Let's get started! - [Technician] Three, two, one. And liftoff! (upbeat rhythmic music) - [Neil] That's one small step for man. - [Technician] Let's clear (beeping) - The International Space Station is still one the greatest I mean after all, it's floating laboratory traveling circling the Earth every 90 minutes. It's taken 33 launches to put and has been home to over 230 people from almost 20 countries. The ISS typically has Crew are sent up in groups of three and usually reside at the There is typically a three month overlap for existing crew and newly arriving crew. But since the Space Shuttle there's only been a that's Russia's Soyuz vehicle. But we're coming up on as the United States prepares to the International Space on two brand new spaceships! And what I think is most exciting, is NASA has hired private companies to do the development and the operations in a new program called the The two companies that won the contracts are SpaceX and Boeing. I'm not really going to get into how the Commercial Crew or has progressed in today's video, I mostly want to talk about the hardware, starting off with Boeing Boeing started designing the Starliner, originally known as the CST-100, in 2010, after winning a contract from The Starliner is the traditional truncated-cone capsule design, much like previous spacecraft It can carry up to seven although NASA won't use more The Starliner will be to land on solid ground Now this is similar to how and also how Blue Origin's Suborbital New Shepard capsule lands. There are five landing sites proposed in the Western United States, but the two prime sites will be the U.S's. Army's White Sands and the Army's Dugway Starliner will land using parachutes and a set of large airbags. A pair of drogue chutes are deployed at about nine kilometers in altitude, followed by a trio of main and at 1.5 kilometers in altitude, the heat shield is ditched and These airbags serve a dual purpose. In nominal cases, the airbags when landing on land, like an abort or an emergency reentry, the airbags offer buoyancy and Touching down on land will to refurbishment and reusability. Boeing is hoping to be in just six months and That's definitely a good thing. Since the crew will land on solid ground, recovery of crew is quite On the edge of the landing zone there will be a Mobile Data as well as a Mobile Landing and a host of other recovery Once touchdown is confirmed, will race their way across the desert. Now I picture this pretty much being like a real life Mad Max scenario, so Boeing, please send us videos of this. Upon arrival, a crew will check and stabilize the hydrazine fuels and then ground the vehicle After that, an HVAC truck will roll up and start to cool the spacecraft, including the crew and the fuels. Next up a Mobile Landing and begin to evacuate the crew. Boeing has to pull crew and cargo out within two. The person who actually extracts the crew is a member of Boeing's which I think is pretty cool. The crew is taken out and then sent over to a and then whisked away Eventually the capsule itself will be loaded up with a small crane truck and taken back to begin refurbishment. The cockpit of Starliner takes a fairly conservative Although it's a lot less cluttery than the Space Shuttle's cockpit, it still features familiar buttons and non-touch screens. The Starliner will dock Docking is where the vehicle actually does all the final maneuvering, until it connects itself Dragon 1 and Cygnus cargo vehicles both currently berth to the station, meaning they park and then via the Canada Arm or Canadarm. Astronauts get in and out of but when docked, they'll that connects to the via the International Initially getting into is admittedly a bit cumbersome. Astronauts need to lying on their backs. The spacecraft is two main sections, the crew module and a service module. The crew module is, well it's where the crew goes. It's also the part that survives reentry. The service module houses propellant tanks for orbital maneuvering, the the launch abort motors, which are on the bottom solar panels on the bottom, as well as a host of other things. The abort motors are four modified to run on hypergolic fuels, to function as a launch abort motor. The first uncrewed test flight, OFT-1 will fly with the but they'll be inactive since In the event of an issue with the booster, or a rapid unscheduled disassembly, these abort motors would be used up until a few minutes into the vehicle would just use The Starliner offers a meaning the astronauts can abort at any time and remain safe. Boeing designed the Starliner to be able to ride on including the Atlas V, the They wound up selecting United Launch Alliance's Atlas V for now, and eventually ULA's will likely fly Starliner. The exact Atlas V they selected is an N22. Now here's a quick The first part of the name the options being four meters, The middle number is the amount and can range from zero to five. The last number is the on the centaur upper stage. The centaur can have one or two RL-10s. So putting this all together, the Atlas V that will launch the Starliner will have no fairing, since it will have two solid rocket boosters and dual RL-10 engines on the When the Starliner launches, ULA's actually used a dual on the Atlas V, however has been flying since 1962 and flew on the Atlas So it's definitely not anything new. So why are Boeing and ULA when the Starliner is relatively light? The RL-10 engine is crazy efficient, but one thing it's not is powerful. In order to allow for enough time for a standard single engine to push the upper stage and it's payload into orbital velocities without the first stage of the Atlas V usually lofts itself into allowing for more time for the upper stage to do its circularization burn. This works great for standard payloads, but in the case of an abort, this trajectory is actually way too steep, generating crazy high, when it hits the atmosphere. So in order to maintain a for the fragile and the upper stage needed more oomph, and the solution to that If you need more info on this Scott Manley has an awesome video on it. Boeing and ULA will also be running a secondary flight computer to the primary flight computer It'll catch any errors in the flight plan faster than a human reaction time, shutting down the engines Another design consideration is due to the blunt nose of the Starliner. You'll see these little lattice structures around the outside. The Starliner was designed to be as stable as possible for reentry, which means having a The lattice structure helps diffuse the helping to make sure or inadvertent pressure areas over the lower portion especially since the to the skinny centaur upper stage. They also added an aerodynamic skirt to ensure smooth airflow. Despite the Apollo Spacecraft the Saturn V it rode on top tapering wider and wider, and therefore didn't have Starliner Astronauts will take off from ULA's launch pad SLC-41 at Cape Canaveral Air The pad has already been in preparations for the This will be the first time humans have launched from which is awesome and also the first time humans have launched from Cape since Apollo 7 in 1968. We'll get into the dimensions, when we do a side by side (upbeat melodic music) Now onto the other new spaceship, SpaceX's Crew Dragon or Dragon 2. Dragon 2 is the follow up to SpaceX's very successful Dragon capsule that has flown cargo to and The Dragon capsule was when it was initially proposed to NASA for the CCDev program. SpaceX was not selected perhaps because the Dragon but SpaceX was selected during the second round of contracts. The original DragonRider capsule was essentially just a crew rated version of their Dragon Capsule, which at the time was getting ready for its first test flights to orbit and was already on contract which it would later do in 2012. In 2014, SpaceX revealed the updated version of the Dragon capsule which would carry astronauts The Dragon 2 was a massive redesign of the original Dragon Capsule, including seating for although again, NASA won't be for the Commercial Crew Program. Dragon 2 was originally planning to also touch down back on assuming they weren't used for an abort, to come to a nice soft touchdown anywhere. However, due to a few reasons, SpaceX ditched propulsive landings and will do a parachute recovery and splashdown in the ocean, much like the current Dragon Capsule. If you need to know more about why SpaceX canceled propulsively I've already got you covered. The Crew Dragon's primary landing zone is the Atlantic ocean, which is different from which has been splashing since its first launch SpaceX also filed to be a contingency landing site too, which I believe would be a first. SpaceX has a pair of ships, named Go Searcher and Go Navigator, that'll be in charge of crew recoveries. Go Searcher features a hoist capable of lifting the and then offloading the crew. There's also communication relays and a helicopter landing pad to get the crew home after splashdown. Go Searcher has been part of aiding in the recovery efforts of Falcon 9 drone ship landings, as well as Dragon 1 recoveries. Despite the ocean landings, SpaceX does has refurbishment although not quite like Refurbished Dragon 2's but they'll eventually be used to carry cargo for CRS-2 missions. SpaceX already has experience refurbishing splash and has reflown five although according to Elon Musk in 2017, he mentions it's almost as expensive to refurbish the splash downed Dragons as it is to build new ones. But I'm sure since then they've implemented streamlined processes which have helped made The design of the Crew Dragon capsule is extremely minimalistic. It's easy to see that by Elon who likes things simple. The interior looks like the compared to Knight Rider's car, Kitt. Some unique features of the interior are touchscreens and movable chairs. When Dragon 2 was first revealed, Elon sat in a seat and pulled that's now reversed, as and the seats move up to them. Again, just like the Starliner, the Dragon 2 is designed with manual overrides really But the Dragon 2 does something that the old Dragon 1 Getting into the Crew Dragon capsule is done via the side hatch. Once you poke your head in, it's very spacious and minimalistic. It's easy to plop into I actually really think Like the Starliner, the Dragon 2 is actually There's the Crew Module and the Trunk. The crew module is again, the but it also has the integrated onto it. Since this portion of the the Super Draco motors Just like the Starliner, the Super Dracos run on and offer a full envelope The trunk is an unpressurized just like it is on Dragon 1. This allows for the ability that wouldn't fit or items that are installed Items that are inside via the Canadarm2 or The trunk of the Dragon with stationary solar panels covering one side of the vehicle and radiators on the other side. The old Dragon 1 had This makes sense because you want the solar and you want the radiators So, pretty cool design. The trunk also has some fins to help stabilize the vehicle And again, I already did so if you want to learn more and why they matter during an The trunk is detached prior to reentry and burns up due to a This allows for disposal of A very fiery garbage service. The Dragon 2 is designed to although there were plans for it to fly on Falcon but SpaceX no longer plans and instead is focusing on Starship. In order for the Falcon NASA required a design freeze since SpaceX tends to upgrade they sometimes introduce Part of this design freeze of a new Composite Overwrapped A COPV failure was the root and a COPV strut was the SpaceX started flying at the end of 2018. It's kind of unusual that I mean considering NASA has on the 2nd launch of there's even been talks of them putting humans on But SpaceX is known to in the constant pursuit of improvement, so I think a safer, more is a good idea when The Falcon 9's flight also had to be altered to ensure the safest Due to the shallower, flatter profile, it also means the first will not do a return and will have to land The upper stage of the Falcon 9 uses the Merlin 1D Vacuum engine which is extremely powerful, It will have no problem Crew will climb on top poised at Launch Complex 39A at Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Now I have to say, not but SpaceX definitely does have I mean after all, this that humans took off Crew will go up the that's a relic from the Space Shuttle era, although SpaceX has done a lot of work to remove the rotating service add cladding, and attach One thing that SpaceX will be doing that's completely new in the and actually took some convincing to make NASA consider a valid option, is a load and go fueling procedure. Since SpaceX uses super they need to load them up into the vehicle as late as possible so they before the vehicle takes off. SpaceX actually continues up until just three Now clearly three minutes isn't nearly enough and strap the crew into and then leave the tower, so the crew will actually and will remain onboard while I can clearly understand but I actually feel like I mean this means the never need to approach a fully Once fuel starts flowing, the crew is actually in the a tightly sealed pressure vessel armed with a powerful abort system. So despite the process of fueling up being pretty risky, the crew Can you imagine, this will a human ear will hear the flowing into the vehicle. They'll hear all those creaks as it comes to life. That's gonna be crazy! Another fun fact is the crew in Tesla Model Xs, of course! Man, SpaceX will be putting on Now lastly, before we get did you know both launch pads Well not quite, but each pad capable of evacuating astronauts in the unlikely event While I'm sure there's limited use cases when these would be remotely useful, it does look like it'd be pretty fun, well, assuming you're not Okay, wow, enough of the rundown. It's time to compare these and see how these new vehicles compare to the Soyuz and the Space Shuttle. (upbeat melodic music) So first off, let's just line and compare their sizes. Yeah, the Space Shuttle Orbiter clearly dwarfs these vehicles And because of its immense on just the crew module so we can see these other vehicles. But don't forget about the rest of it, we'll still be talking since the aft end is its service module and the cargo bay is similar in nature to the trunk of the Dragon But notice how much bigger compared to the Soyuz! So let's run through their dimensions starting with their height. The Starliner stands five meters tall with the service module attached, the Crew Dragon is 8.1 and the Soyuz is 7.5 meters tall with the orbital module and The Space Shuttle, we'll because that's the way it stood It stood 37 meter tall from tail to nose. Next their width. The Starliner is 4.5 metes wide, the Dragon Capsule 3.7 meters and the Space Shuttle's crew were 4.6 meters wide, we'll ignore the wings I feel like we're gonna when we compare these because that thing was a Next up, dry mass. Starliner is 13 tonnes, the Soyuz capsule is and the Space Shuttle, this is quite a bit As mentioned earlier, Crew capacity for both but again, NASA will only use four. The Soyuz Capsule can fit three, barely, and the Shuttle could fit up to eight, although seven was much more common. Now for volume, both Starliner has 11 cubic meters of pressurized volume Dragon 2 has 10 cubic and 14 cubic meters of Soyuz has 8.5 cubic meters of pressurized and no unpressurized volume. The Space Shuttle is of course king here with 74.3 cubic meters and 300 cubic meters of In other words, you could inside the payload bay of the Shuttle. So now, how long can these The Starliner can go 60 hours on its own and 210 days while docked, Crew Dragon can do one week on its own and also 210 days when docked, the Soyuz can go 30 days on its own and 180 days when docked, and the Space Shuttle couldn't due to being powered by fuel cells. Next up, how about their abort systems? The Starliner and Crew Dragon both have a pusher-type meaning they can abort safely the Soyuz has a puller or tractor system with an abort tower which also offers a full the Space Shuttle had no And a quick little note pushers push up from the bottom or the middle of the spacecraft and tractors or puller abort systems pull from the top using a Now where do these all land? Starliner, Shuttle and while Crew Dragon splashes down. Now how about The Starliner is capable Crew Dragon is capable of reuse, but for now only as a cargo variant, Soyuz is expendable and the So now the launch vehicles that gets these to space. Starliner will ride the Atlas V N22, Crew Dragon the Falcon 9, Soyuz the Soyuz FG rocket and the Shuttle was part of the While we have these rockets pulled up, I think it's important we take We're gonna ignore partial failures and only talk about mission success, in which case the Atlas at 100% success in 79 flights. The Falcon 9 has had 69 missions one of them actually happening giving it a 97.1% success rate. The Soyuz is complicated because it's been flying since the 60s in some form or another, so for a 96.9% success rate, but has only had one failure out of 66, making it 98.5% successful. And the Shuttle had two also making it 98.5% successful. It should also be noted that the one failure of the Soyuz And another quick note, this time about the use The solid rocket booster lead to the loss of but that's not to say solids on their own are inherently more dangerous per se. The mixture of a solid rocket booster and the lack of a mechanical abort system, is really what was dangerous. We've learned a lot and the Atlas V's use of and due to the fact that the Starliner does if there was a failure, the crew would be able to So we really shouldn't compare to the Space Shuttle's use of SRBs. And now we're do all four Launch sites are SLC-41 at Cape Canaveral Air right next door is the Falcon 9, which will launch from LC-39A the Soyuz launches from Baikonur LC-1/5, and the Shuttle launched from And lastly we're gonna and this one has a pretty Both Starliner and Crew Dragon have a price tag of $58 million per seat, the Soyuz Capsule is now and the Shuttle, well, this is a hard one. On paper, the Shuttle would cost around $214 million per seat, but don't forget the than just take crew up, it often would carry an additional payload of a dozen tonnes or more! So maybe it's fair to take that $214 million and then take 80% off because 80% of the volume of the vehicle was dedicated to cargo. But maybe that's not fair either, so let's just say it's somewhere between $43 million and $214 million. The last thing I want to mention, but only for the is their cost of development. So the Starliner received $4.8 billion and SpaceX received 3.1 billion in total. But this includes two demo launches and six operational Now I really don't want to over why each company got but it likely had to do with Perhaps after SpaceX flies they can charge a little more for increased confidence from NASA. Kind of like how they're of the cargo resupply missions once they prove to be reliable, and after they've gained a better sense of the costs of running the program. So when it's all said and First off, I couldn't be more excited to see an awesome pair of It's about time! As solid and reliable it's about time humans and more comfortable options. As far as each system goes, I've got my opinions because I already know the comment section will have plenty of opinions to go around. The Starliner is an awesome spaceship. It's very well thought human safety is very much on top of mind for both Boeing and ULA. I'm glad to see their going because I think it's cool, and I'm glad to see they And I'm also happy the Atlas will finally be carrying humans again for the first time since Faith 7 launched with Mercury-Atlas in 1963! And as advanced as the Starliner is, I do wish Boeing had gone a It feels like the spaceship and you can tell they didn't or really push any boundaries. And unfortunately, when I gotta sit in it, it just feels a little stale and cold. However, aesthetics and ergonomics are a very, very minor when you're putting humans in space. So, now we come to SpaceX's There's really no arguing that SpaceX made the better looking and down right sexy spaceship. It truly is stunning. And quite frankly, the radical really seems to have been Just look at how easy it compared to the Starliner. And I have no doubt didn't cut any corners in safety, considering they had to answer to NASA on every single millimeter of the thing, so when it comes to pure cool factor, I'm gonna have to give After hearing from a few people who have used the touchscreens, we're talking about hardcore pilots here, they have voiced missing a more Saying it does feel a But lastly, seeing a Falcon 9 land after delivering crew to the ISS, will be a nice cherry on top. And although of course it won't be landing back at Kennedy Space Center, I never get tired of seeing this. So no matter how you cut NASA hired two incredible companies to come up with some truly NASA should be proud of this new program. It's saved them money, and now so now they actually have in humanities access to space. And although this video was intended to highlight to be perfectly honest, I wound up really appreciating after diving into this. That thing was something really special. I mean yes of course it had its flaws, and it didn't quite live up to the hype of making space flight cheaper or safer, but boy oh boy did it have So great job NASA, Boeing and SpaceX! I honestly couldn't be more excited for this new chapter of spaceflight. And don't you all worry, I'll be doing my best to I'm planning to try and make it down to all the demo missions and If you want to help contribute and ensure I can bring you consider becoming a Patreon supporter by visiting Patreon.com/everydayastronaut, where you'll also gain access to behind the scenes content If you want another fun head over to my webstore at where you'll find shirts like this, and Grid Fin Not-A-Coasters, and lots of other fun stuff. You can even find all which is always original. And not only that, be sure and check out my which I wrote the music to That's right, when you watch that video, you are watching the straight video off of SpaceX's livestream. It has not been cut in any way. The music was written to all So it's a fun new way to definitely check it out, Thanks everybody, that's I'm Tim Dodd, The Everyday Astronaut, bringing space down to (energetic melodic music)