Welcome to our Solar System. Including our Sun, the star and everything bound to it by gravity. It's a wonderous, incredible place full of... asteroids... planets and dwarf planets. Let's visit some of these space objects! Starting with The Sun. Just look at it. It's a yellow dwarf star... a hot glowing ball of hydrogen and helium at the centre of our solar system. The Sun's diameter is about 109 times more than the Earth's diameter. It also weighs over 333,000 times more than The Earth! I mean, I'm big but that is just ridiculous. No offence! Temperatures at the surface would be about 10,000 Fahrenheit. The core of the Sun reaches 27 million degrees Fahrenheit, or 15 million degrees Celsius. Wow! Yikes! That's too hot, even for me! You're right Venus, let's get out of here! Now we travel about 36 million miles to... Mercury! Mercury is the closest planet to the Sun, but not the hottest. Mercury is a rocky planet that is covered with craters. It has no atmosphere, and it doesn't have any moons either. It has no atmosphere, and it doesn't have any moons either. It's actually only a little big bigger than Earth's moon! Hold on guys. I may be small, but I am one tough planet! I am covered in craters from impacts with rocks or comets from space smashing into my surface! Ouch! I am small but just look at The Caloris Basin... one of the largest craters in the solar system! It's about 1,525 kilometers across! Wow, that is big. Are you patronising me? No...I... uh...on we go... Leaving Mercury, now we travel about 31 million miles to get to.... Venus! Venus, similar in size to Earth but VERY different. No rings and no moons, spins in the opposite direction to other planets and it has a thick, toxic atmosphere that traps the heat from the sun and chokes the planet. Don't believe me, let's take a look below the clouds... Wow, look at it... Venus is the hottest Planet in the Solar System , reaching temperatures of 900 degrees Fahrenheit. Whoo! What? It's lovely here. I have a solid surface with craters and I have thousands of Volcanos! More than any other planet in the Solar System. Just look! Space probes from Earth have landed on me. But they only lasted a short time because my extremely high temperatures... ...and pressure on my surface melted and crushed the landers. Whoops! My bad! Let's get out of here and move on. Travelling about 25 million miles, we finally reach a familiar sight. Earth. Oh and The Moon! Hold on while it passes. There's the International Space Station and there is Planet Earth! Home Earth is a world unlike any other in our Solar System. Earth is the only place in the known universe confirmed to host life. I have living things on me because I have two very important things that life needs. Lots of oxygen and lots of water! My distance from the sun also means it's not too hot and not too cold for you. You're welcome! Hot is better! Not it's not Venus! Uh, let's move on... To get to the next planet we need to travel 140 million miles. That is a long way. But trust me, it's worth it as we reach... Planet Mars! Mars. The Red Planet! Mars has two moons and although it looks warm , it is in fact very cold, around -80 F! Let's take a closer look at its surface. I am covered in features. Let's take a look at some. Starting with the tallest mountain and volcano in the solar system... Olympus Mons. This Volcano is nearly three times the height of Mount Everest! Just look at the size of it!! Next we go to Valles Marineris! A canyon system that is up to 4000 km long 200 km wide and 10 km deep! This makes it the biggest canyon in the Solar System! And lastly Hellas Planitia. This is a huge impact crater that is about 1400 miles wide. Wow. Now we must travel about 340 million miles to the next planet! But to do this we need to pass through The Asteroid Belt. Containing millions of asteroids we need to be careful! Ready? Woah! Woah! You'll also find dwarf planet Ceres here too! And we arrive at... Me! Planet Jupiter. The Gas Giant! The biggest Planet in The Solar System! The King of Planets... The... Ok, ok, we get it... Everything about me is big. You could fit 1300 Earth's inside me. Yikes! Although I'm huge I am the fastest spinning planet in The Solar System. . I have about 95 moons and counting! I am a giant ball of gas, with no solid surface... and temperatures on me average at around -160 degrees Fahrenheit! That is cold. Hmph! Call that cold? Just you wait! And of course we can't leave without looking at...my Great Red Spot! This is a huge storm that has been continuously going on me for over 400 years. Winds in my storm can reach up to 270 mph! And yes, the storm itself is bigger than the Earth! Phew what a planet I am! Uh...Shall we move on? Now we travel 402 million miles to reach... Planet Saturn! Well the second biggest planet in the solar system is certainly unique! Just look at those rings! Saturn is a gas giant like me, so you couldn't stand on its surface. Yes...uh...Saturn is now known to have more moons than me... Pardon? A bit louder please? Uhhhh, you have more moons than me, at least 145 at the last count... Yes, I do! More on my wonderous rings now. Did you know my rings are not flat, instead... ...they consist of billions of particles of dust, ice and rock. My ring system extends up to 175,000 miles from me. That's massive! I also have a weird hexagon shaped cloud pattern over my North Pole. Caused by jet streams. Wow! This all makes me a unique planet! Now we travel nearly 900 Million Miles to the next Planet! As we arrive at... Planet Uranus. Our first Ice Giant, Uranus is twice as far from the Sun as Saturn is. And... Don't you think I'm more qualified to talk about me than you are? Ummm...sure... Well, I'm not as big a Saturn and Jupiter but you can still fit 63 Earths inside of me. I also have 27 known moons - that is a lot! Yes, I know Saturn! You have more. I also have 13 faint rings... ...which although are hard to see, look really good. Yes, I know Saturn! I also have the coldest planetary atmosphere... ...in the Solar System, hitting as low as -224 C. And I also spin on my side! Anyway...oh...you're off... Now we travel another 1 BILLION miles to another planet! Planet Neptune. Hey guys. I'm another ice giant like Uranus. But I'm nearly 3 billion miles from the Sun! Imagine that! I have 14 known moons and I also have at least 5 known faint rings. I am the furthest planet from the Sun, sorry Pluto! Oh man! I may not be the coldest planet, but I do have a lot of wind. You will see ever changing storms like this on me. Winds can reach up to 1500 MPH, faster than the speed sound travels at! Now just beyond the orbit of Neptune, you will find The Kuiper Belt! This is a large area of small, icy objects that orbit the sun. You will also find Dwarf Planets Pluto I USED TO BE A PLANET! Haumea Makemake And Eris. Eris being the furthest known dwarf planet, it is about 9 billion miles away from the Sun! Have you realised just how big space is? No? But we're not quite done yet! Beyond the Kuiper Belt is where we would find the Oort Cloud. The Oort Cloud contains billions and billions of frozen comet-like bodies that form a gigantic ball shaped place that surrounds our Solar System. The Oort cloud's distant edge could lie some 100,000 times further out from the sun than Earth. More than a third of the way to its nearest Star! And that's just our Solar System It is estimated that there are 100's of billions of stars in our galaxy alone And hundreds and hundreds of billions of galaxies In the Universe. Now I feel Small!