Closed Captions were added by Moxi Media. This place will there really be phantom soldiers here? Of course. This place has heavy yin energy. It easily gathers yin energy. Today is the ninth day of September again. I can guarantee Ghost soldiers will pass by for sure. As long as the phantom soldiers pass by, gold beans will fall. Is it true? It's so mysterious. Look. This is from Yi Meng Zhai. You see, this gold bean was exchanged with. It was picked up here. My handkerchief. Lao San, come back. My handkerchief. The phantom soldiers are gone. Quick, find the gold beans. Lao San, Look, we're rich. We've struck it rich. Run! Report! Di Renjie has arrived. Long time no see, you've changed so much. Inform the Empress. Di Renjie has arrived. Di Renjie. In the imperial court, before the Empress, how can you act like this? In the imperial court, there's so much shouting and barking. It's really not proper. You... Di Renjie, haven't seen you for years. Your gift of gab hasn't changed a bit. It seems that this prison is quite comfortable for you. This Dali Temple is indeed comprehensive. All the ministers of the court, would you like to visit sometime? You... are really unreasonable. Yes. Too unreasonable. This is outrageous. Di Renjie, In Dali Temple. Needs to be taken care of thoroughly. This exceptional wine of the Xidu. I'm afraid you might find it hard to taste. Exceptional. The Empress has something to say. But feel free to speak. In addition, the day before yesterday. The Grand Court Minister Liu Zhengyang sent to the Dali Temple in Xidu. This is how many people have died in the Xidu now? This is... The third one. Tell me more. What were their causes of death? Victims... Speak louder! The victims had their souls taken by phantom soldiers, and in an instant, their bodies turned into sand, leaving only their bones. Now, this wave of phantom soldiers killing people has blown into Luoyang City. And they're calling me the star of calamity. These phantom soldiers killing people should be dealt with by Taoist priests. It seems I won't have the chance to drink this fine wine. I'm still serving my sentence, first, it doesn't comply with the laws of the Tang Dynasty. And second, these old courtiers might have objections. Sending a criminal like me might not be appropriate. Di Renjie, if you can thoroughly investigate this case within ten days, I will spare you from imprisonment and reinstate your official position. Seven days. If the case is not solved by then, I assure you I will be there myself. Seven days. Is he out of his mind? Yan'er. How far are we from the Xidu? We just passed Qingshi Town. It's about twenty miles from here. We've been on the road for two days. Our Lord Di is living the good life. That's our Lord Di. Yan'er. Listen. This is definitely a welcome party for Lord Di. Do you think Lord Di is the current emperor? You're so noisy. Lord Di. Get up. The sun is up. Sigh. Sigh. What bad luck. Coffin, coffin. Seeing one means wealth. This implies that Lord Di is going to be promoted and wealthy. Asu. You've been with me for so many years, but you haven't improved at all. Look at the person in front. His breathing is steady, his eyes are sharp, and his steps are firm. He must be a martial artist. And those four pallbearers, the coffin is made of Western Yellow Tang wood, and with the body, it weighs at least 800 catties. But they walk as if on level ground, their legwork must be superior to ours. Then there's the person with concealed hands. He deploys hidden weapons unnoticed, and the target is dead before realizing it. He must be a master of hidden weapons. And then there's the person scattering paper money, though he tries to hide it, his arm movements are powerful, combining softness and strength. He must be skilled in martial arts. Most importantly, as a funeral procession, there isn't a single mourner among them. It seems we've encountered coffin robbers. Be careful, Lord. Di Renjie, you are such a pessimist. Playing dead, huh? Be careful, Lord Di. Lord! Bold criminals! Daring to commit a crime here, Get lost! Mind your own business! Get rid of him too! Hero! Hero, spare us! We just wanted to steal some money. We won't do it again. Go away! Thank you, hero, for your help. May I ask your name? I am Di, and I will come to thank you in the future. I'm surnamed Li. I just couldn't stand by when I saw injustice. I have other matters to attend to. Goodbye. Truly, heroes rise in their youth. His sword is only slightly faster by a little bit... A little. Let's go. Xidu Town. Lord. This place is really strange. Could there really be ghosts here? Lord. Xidu Town is indeed peculiar. Villagers, don't be afraid. Come out. By the decree of the emperor, Imperial investigator Di Renjie has arrived. Lord. The villagers may not have seen a detective like you before and are intimidated by your presence. Go back. The previous lords who died they said the same. Go back. This matter of the Ghost King can't be managed by mortals This lady here... You're not aware that this is the famous detective of Luoyang Di Renjie, Lord Di. I can vouch with my extraordinary beauty and with Lord Di's life. The Ghost Soldiers case will be solved within five days. We will surely solve it. Greetings to Lord Di. You must be Captain Zhang Kuangfa. Indeed. Lord Di, I've heard that you encountered bandits in the eastern outskirts. I failed in my duty. I couldn't protect you properly, My Lord. Please forgive me. I'm fine. Everyone, get up. Captain Zhang, Your Xidu Town is quite interesting, isn't it? Go back, This matter of the Ghost Soldiers has caused panic in the town. Once it's night, the Ghost Soldiers come out to claim lives. The people dare not leave their homes. They fear the Ghost King will take them. Let's go. To the county office. Yes. Lord Di, we've arrived. I, Zhou Zong, pay my respects to Lord Di. My Lord, You must be tired from your journey. I have prepared food and wine. Please rest first. Let's handle the case first. Please, My Lord. Greetings to Lord Di. My Lord, What's this? Where's the case file? My Lord, This is the complete case file for the Ghost Soldiers. According to this file, County Magistrate Huang turned into sand in an instant. Human skin is difficult to melt when exposed to fire. How could someone turn into sand in an instant? Speak up. Report to Lord, Every word is true. Captain Zhang and I witnessed it with our own eyes. On that day, Captain Zhang and I accompanied County Magistrate Huang on the way to the Ghost Soldiers' location. My Lord, Did you hear the sound of horses neighing? There seems to be something suspicious inside. We should be cautious. Yes, My Lord. Playing tricks. I want to see what demons and monsters are here. My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, What should we do, Captain Zhang? Follow me. County Magistrate Huang, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, My Lord, County Magistrate Huang, My Lord, County Magistrate Huang, My Lord, The Ghost Soldiers passed through the Yellow Sand. Report to Lord, Everything I said is true. Every word is true. Where is this page? Why is a page missing? My Lord, This scribe is in charge of the records. I truly didn't know about this. And the scribe? Where is he? Report to Lord Di, The scribe, since County Magistrate Huang's death, he's been suffering from madness. He hasn't been to the county office since then. Take me to see this scribe tomorrow. Captain Zhang, When did you enter the county office? I'm from Shaoyang, I moved to Wujin nine years ago. Yes. I was recommended by Minister Shen of the Ministry of War. The Ghost Soldiers' path. The Ghost Mist. Going in but not coming out, covered by the Yellow Sand. The Gates of the Netherworld open. No one stays behind. At three in the morning, they return to the underworld. When did this nursery rhyme start circulating? There's a legend that those who see the Ghost Soldiers. Even if they miraculously escape, they will still be captured back to the underworld. Sister-in-law. Captain Zhang. This is the imperial envoy, Lord Di. Greetings to Lord Di. No need for formalities. Is the scribe available? Ghost King. Yellow Sand. The Ghost Soldiers' path. Yellow County Magistrate Huang's death. He became like this, out of his mind. Lord Di, He must have had his soul taken by the Ghost King. Scribe Niu, Lord Di is here. Ghost King. The Ghost Soldiers' path. Ghost Soldiers take souls will die. We will all die. Niu Motian. Lord Di is here. What's wrong with you? What's all this mess? Can't move. Ghost Soldiers' path. Ghost King. Sand. What are you doing? Ghost Soldiers' path. We will die... will die, will die. We will die. What are you doing, Niu Motian? Lord Ghost King. Please spare our old man. Lord Ghost King, have mercy. We shouldn't have gone to the Ghost Road. Please spare him. Please spare him, Lord Ghost King. Spare him. Spare him. Spare him. Old man. Old man. Old man. He's gone. My Lord. My Lord. My Lord. Just a moment ago, we found two bodies on the Ghost Road. Two skeletons. Asu. Go and inform Yan'er. My Lord. Can it not be me? Someone, come! Take Scribe Niu's body to the Temple of the God of Murder. Wait for me! My Lord, It's inside. My Lord, it's already confirmed with the victim. The deceased are Zhang San and Zhao Si from the east city. Continue. My Lord, These two were notorious gamblers and troublemakers in the town. They always lost when they gambled. Two days before the incident, they lost everything at the gambling den. I believe they came here to search for the Golden Bean. Lord Yan. This is the Temple of the God of Murder. This case is quite strange. So we placed the bodies here, to suppress the evil spirits. Praying for peace. This place is very frightening. Yan'er. Quickly examine the corpse. I want to go home. Around 60 years old. The skin is dark blue. There's a red mark on the chest. The people is dead. So pitiful. And you're poking them with a needle? No signs of poisoning. I saw him die with my own eyes. He must be possessed. Where does this road lead to? Back to you, my lord. This road leads straight into the mountains. It's a woodcutter's path. It's rarely used by the common folk. I and County Magistrate Zhou have investigated it, but we found nothing. My lord. We found a handkerchief. Yimengzhai. Reporting to my lord. Yimengzhai is a famous brothel in our county. It's known for its exotic beauties from the Western Regions. They perform, but they don't sell their bodies. It's too expensive for common folks. Zhang San and Zhao Si had nothing. How could they afford to go to a brothel? Let's go. My lord. My lord. Let's have flower wine. First, let's go to the Temple of the God of Murder. Gray. This condition only occurs five days after death. The smell of decay. But he died only two hours ago. His organs have already started to decay. So, you see, Scribe Niu was dead long ago. Could what we saw be ghosts? There are no such things as ghosts in this world. Only people pretending to be spirits. My lord. Yan'er is just scaring me. She said Scribe Niu has been dead for several days. I'm just speculating. Scribe Niu had convulsions before he died, which seems like sudden death. But we can smell the odor of the corpse. Clearly, his internal organs have started to decay. My lord, What do you think? Everyone has secrets. It's just that some people hide them better. Yan'er, dig out this secret. Reporting to my lord, All those placed here were victims on the Ghost Soldiers' Road. To suppress their spirits, and pray for peace. Previously, those killed by the Ghost Soldiers all turned into dust. But Scribe Niu is different. It seems the Ghost Soldiers have various methods of killing. Open it. Come in. Indeed, he died for the sake of money. Like a bird dying for food. Yan'er, Look at these small holes. Are they jewelry? The holes are too small, and there's no suitable string to thread through them. Even if threaded, the silk thread is thin and sharp, it would easily cut the skin if not careful. Therefore, it's not suitable for making jewelry. Why would the Ghost Soldiers have golden beans on them? In my opinion, this craftsmanship doesn't seem to be of common folk origin. Could it be from the netherworld? My lord, When can we go home? I'm so scared. My lord, Take the bones of Zhang San and Zhao Si. It's boring at home. I'll take you to drink flower wine. How about that? Lord Di. This doesn't seem right. This case is tricky. I can't stay in this place for long. We might as well enjoy ourselves. Wait for me, My Lord. My Lord. It is said that Yimengzha is the best brothel in town. Most of the women here come from distant lands. Xidu is a crucial transportation hub. As a result, most of the women at Yimengzhai come from distant lands. Live a life of debauchery here. and squander their wealth. Sir. Sir. Sir. Ladies. Serve the guests. Hurry, hurry. Miss. Would you like a wandering swordsman like me? Lack of taste. Sir, It's your first time here. You've come to the right place. A handsome man like you, a talent in every way. I'll arrange for you a beauty as heavenly as can be. What do you say? As for me... Let's talk later. You have no taste either. Do you know this? This? It belongs to Miss Yuenu. She's the top beauty here. Where is she now? She's currently... has a client. I can arrange someone else for you. No need. Alright. Sir. Take care. Come on. Have another drink. You. Who are you? Get out of here. Are you deaf? Ah. Yuenu girl is mine now. Getting drunk. Someone, come. Take him away. It's okay, it's okay. Yuenu girl is mine. Mine. Excuse me, sir. The lady will have other guests later. We'll meet another day. Miss. How about a dance? Listen to me. All the people coming in and out of Yimengzhai are playboys. How could there be dirt in a young lady's chamber? I've felt the wind since I entered. All the windows should be tightly sealed, logically. I think the servants of Yimengzhai shouldn't make such a mistake. Look. The fabric residue on the corner of the table is rough. It doesn't seem like something left by nobility. It's more like what people in the Martial World leave behind. And also, all the furnishings in the room are neatly arranged, but the books on the desk are so messy. Clearly, someone has hastily searched through them. And also, Did you smell it? There's a scent of weapon rust prevention oil in the room. It seems the newcomer is not good. Are you sure? Brave hero, show yourself! It's you. I thought you were different from other corrupt officials. I didn't expect you to be just another lecher. What are you doing here so sneakily? I have my reasons. No need to tell you. Oh no. Detective Di Renjie is furious. Protector. Quick, call the protector. You little rascal. Daring to fight with the imperial envoy. Still not surrendering. Just took office and indulging in such debauchery. I'm here to kill officials like you. Don't fight! Protector. Protector. Miss. Even if I don't protect you, My sword will protect you. Miss Yuenu, please have a seat. Are you Imperial Envoy Di? The person earlier, do you know him? I've never seen him before. Do you recognize this? Have you ever seen it before? A few days ago, a stranger came with this golden bean. Miss Yuenu, do you know what this is? Gold. It seems that Miss Yuenu is in the Yimengzhai, and you are not well-informed about the outside world. Serve me. Young Hero Li, you already know about what happened yesterday. It was a misunderstanding. I apologize for my actions. I also have my faults in this matter. Let's put it behind us. Last night, why did you go to the Yimengzhai? I have a sworn brother. A few months ago, he went missing. I've been searching all the way, and I traced him to Yimengzhai. Your sworn brother has a scar on his eyebrow. He got injured trying to save me. Let me see. My sworn brother always stood up for justice, but he also frequented places of entertainment. He disappeared after visiting the Yimengzhai. I suspect his disappearance is connected to the Yimengzhai. My Lord, Good news. There's a new discovery regarding the body of Scribe Niu. Young Hero Li, you can leave your brother's case to us. You rest here. We'll go. My Lord, this was extracted from Scribe Niu's nostrils. Based on my deduction, this substance should be a potent poison from the Western Regions called the Blue Scorpion. Blue Scorpion? My master once mentioned that this poison is highly refined and deadly From the appearance and symptoms of the body, it's undoubtedly the Blue Scorpion. But the manner of his death is completely inconsistent. My Lord, be careful! The dart is poisoned! Yan'er, protect Scribe Niu's body. Their swords are coated with Blue Scorpion venom. My Lord, be careful! Yan'er, Give me the red one. You take the blue-faced one. My Lord, are you okay? I'm fine. This case is becoming more interesting. The mystery of the Blue Scorpion may have someone who can help us. Sir, the young ladies have retired for the night. Perhaps you should come back another day. Oh. Sir, you should come back another day. Oh. Sir, Who? It's me. Di Renjie. Don't be alarmed, Miss. I've come to seek your advice. Lord Di, your habit is quite bad. Miss, it seems even more refreshing and elegant. I wonder which country in the Western Regions you're from. The Wusun Kingdom. Have you ever heard of a medicine called &quot;Blue Scorpion&quot;? &quot;Blue Scorpion&quot; is a unique fragrance from the Western Regions, extracted from the Soul-Captivating Flower of the Western Regions. This flower grows at the summit of the Snowy Mountains and blooms once every thirty years. Yimengzhai happened to have prepared some. This powder requires precise dosage. Moderate use can refresh and beautify, but excessive use Lightly, it can cause hallucinations, Heavily, it can lead to madness. My Lord, be careful. This powder, is it commonly found in Xidu Town? Of course, it's quite common here. Many merchants and travelers pass through here. Yes. Miss Yue Nu, have you seen this person before? We've crossed paths once. He has a distinctive scar on his face, and his temperament bears some resemblance to yours. That day, he forcibly took one of my guests and left, and even fought with him. But that was months ago. Lord Di, Are you alright? I'm fine. Miss Yue Nu, How did you end up here? I came from a declining family since childhood, and followed my older brother, who wandered here. My brother was greedy for money and sold me to the Yimengzhai Miss, be careful! Be careful! Lord Di, Lord Di, You were just affected by the Blue Scorpion. The fragrance you inhaled was too much for you. So, you experienced hallucinations. Young Hero Li, Are you feeling better now? Much better. I'm fine. Let me check your wound. What happened here? I really didn't expect there would be such a master in this county. This is the injury caused by Chapter Zhang. Fortunately, I sealed off my own meridians so it didn't spread to other meridians. Otherwise, I would have been killed by this Western Region sorcery. It took my life. The Western Region sorcery. Chapter Zhang, My father, ever since County Magistrate Huang passed away, he's been locked up in this room. Chapter Zhang visited a few times, but it was of no use. He's still locked up in this room every day. Not long after, he became mentally unstable. He must have been ensnared by the Ghost King. Where is this missing page? How did it disappear? My Lord, Lord Yan requests that you return quickly. My Lord, Look. My Lord, This martial art is called &quot;Cold Yin Finger.&quot; It's a Western Region secret technique. People injured by this martial art don't die immediately. The cold poison will flow along the meridians to the heart. After that, the heart will be eroded by the cold poison, resulting in death. My Lord, this was caused by Captain Zhang. Chapter Zhang Kuangfa. Yes. Young Hero Li, please tell me again about the situation when you fought with Chapter Zhang that day. That day, when I fought with Captain Zhang, I accidentally tore his clothes, and I faintly saw a circular pattern on his chest. Ta Kan Si Fei Chang Zai Yi and he turned violent against me. Every move is deadly. He even used the Cold Yin Finger to injure me. I felt my qi and blood suddenly reverse, and dizziness overcame me. In the midst of my panic, I broke his fingers. And sealed my own Tianhui acupoint. I've said it before. Everyone has secrets, it's just that some people hide them deeper than others. Captain Zhang, when did you join the county office? There's a legend that those who encounter the Ghost Soldiers even if they manage to escape by some miracle, will be captured back to the underworld. Yan'er, come with me. We have three days left until the case deadline. It seems we'll have to close the case early. If we go by what Young Hero Li said, I believe Scribe Niu also fell victim to this poison, and faked the Ghost Soldiers take souls. They want to discourage us. Yan'er, take a look. Doesn't it look the same as the injury Young Hero Li suffered? This wound appears similar, but it doesn't match Young Hero Li's meridian condition. My lord, I'm afraid your deduction might be incorrect. My Lord This... Could there be something more to it? Impossible. The air is dry, be careful with the candle. The heavens... Captain Zhang, Captain was taken away by the Ghost King. Lord Di, Let me see. Young Hero Li, you owe me a big favor. I said I'd never come back to such a terrifying place. My lord, your speculation is correct. This is indeed an injury caused by the Cold Yin Finger from the Western Regions. My lord, Playing dead, huh? Don't panic, everyone. This is due to the body's reversed energy flow. There's still residual vitality in the body. What Young Hero Li just did was merely unblocking his reversed meridians. It's indeed related to Zhang Kuangfa. It seems Scribe Niu had information related to the Ghost Soldiers case. Zhang Kuangfa had no choice but to drive him insane with Blue Scorpion. Why didn't they just kill him directly? To avoid further complications, after all, he was from the county office. But... Man proposes, God disposes. Yan'er, What's this? I found this at Scribe Niu's house. It's the page from the county chronicles about the Lu Wang Tomb. What does it have to do with the case? Do you remember the golden beans we found at the crime scene? Are you saying this is treasure from the Lu Wang Tomb? Exactly. You mentioned before that such craftsmanship didn't exist among commoners, with jade floors and golden curtains. This is the golden curtain from the Lu Wang Tomb. Made by stringing together golden beans. How much wealth must this represent? I remember hearing about Lu Wang in my childhood. He had a golden mountain at home. After his death, he had people move that golden mountain into his tomb. But unexpectedly, his soldiers vanished while transporting the gold. Later, many people claimed to have seen the Ghost Soldiers transporting gold often appearing on the road late at night. My lord, Are these Ghost Soldiers the ones who disappeared back then. This is not good. Zhang Kuangfa. Hurry. Zhang Kuangfa is a major suspect. He must be arrested quickly. My Lord. Look up. What's causing such panic? Captain Zhang. He was taken away by the Ghost King's horse. It's Zhang Kuangfa. Yes. My Lord. Which way did he go? The Ghost Soldier's Path. The Ghost Soldier's Path. Lord Di. Asu. Watch the horse closely. When the third watch arrives, we'll reach the Underworld. Among those who have survived on the Ghost Soldier's Path. Only I remain. It's the Ghost Soldiers. The Ghost Soldiers have come for our lives. We'll all die. We're all going to die. My Lord. The Ghost Soldiers are gone. My Lord. There's no road ahead. My Lord. There are no forks in the road along the way. It's too strange. It must be the work of the Ghost Soldiers. Impossible. It must be some mistake. Impossible. We saw the Ghost Soldiers with our own eyes. Ahead is a sheer cliff. How could people suddenly disappear? Unless they sprang from between the rocks. Absolutely impossible. There must be some mistake. My Lord. Maybe it really is the Ghost Soldiers killing people. Do you believe that too? There are many things in this world we can't explain. The heavens and the earth give birth to all things. All things have their origins and can be traced. Everything can be explained. How do you explain all that just now? Let's go back. You can't think rationally right now. My Lord. Could there be something more sinister? The people dare not leave their homes, afraid of being hunted down by the Ghost King. Sorcery from the Western Regions. You just took office and you're indulging in debauchery. I kill officials like you. Are you sure? It's too strange. It must be the Ghost Soldiers. Lord Di. Yan'er has brought you some food again. No need to send it. He won't eat it. I just wanted him to have something to drink. These past few days, I've eaten everything you sent. Don't treat me like a pig. Are you trying to ruin my flawless beauty? I've told you. Don't point your fingers at me. Don't, don't. Stop it. We only have one day left until the case deadline. Are you still causing trouble? Yan'er is going to break my finger. See if you dare in the future. Broken. Lord Di. Lord Di. Lord Di. Not good. The Lord is heading to Luoyang to deliver a person's head. Quick, catch him! My Lord. Yan'er. Go inform Young Hero Li. Yes. My Lord. Zhou Zong. Here. Guard the Temple of the God of Murder well. No one is allowed to approach. My Lord. Why did you bring me here? Do you really suspect the Ghost Soldiers popped out from nowhere. The Buddha said, &quot;Do not grasp at appearances, But see reality as it is. All conditioned things. Like a dream, like a bubble. Like dew, like lightning. Thus should you contemplate them.&quot; It seems that this broken wall has some mysteries. Young Hero Li, My Lord, How did you know there was a mechanism behind this rock? Do you remember what you said to me that night? Did you say something to me? What? You said, &quot;As long as someone is human, they won't disappear for no reason. Unless they can walk through walls.&quot; There's a kind of sorcery in Maoshan where someone prepares in advance behind the door and when the time comes, they just find a point of leverage and give it a gentle push, and the door opens. That simple? That simple. Let's go. It's just some optical illusion. Young Master Li, What do you think? It seems that this Yimengzhai is inevitably connected to the Ghost Soldiers case. I've long suspected this Yuanu. Do you also think so? Yimengzhai is a place of mixed interests, and there must be hidden unmentionable secrets. It appears we need to investigate further. But before we go, there's something I need to clarify. Yimengzhai is a famous brothel in this county, where most of the women are exotic beauties from the Western Regions who sell their art, not their bodies. I have a sworn brother who went missing several months ago. We'll die. Why do all the clues point to Young Master Li? It's impossible. I'm surnamed Li, and I intervene when I see injustice. It's you. I really didn't expect such a maste in this county. This wound was caused by Captain Zhang. My Lord, Let me take a look. My Lord, perhaps it really is the Ghost Soldiers killing people. I've long suspected this Yuanu. It seems that Yimengzhai is inevitably connected to the Ghost Soldiers case. I've long suspected this Yuanu. Miss, your guest here seems unfriendly. At the third watch, you'll return to the underworld. Oh no! Yuenu, Yuenu, Miss, You're safe. Miss Yuenu, Your current situation is very dangerous. It's really dangerous. Help! Miss Yuenu. Miss Yuenu. Miss Yuenu. Listen to me. Listen to me. The assassins who lurked in your room last time are related to the Ghost Soldiers case. The people he killed had strange totems on their chests and later turned into sand. So, your situation is very dangerous. I have no intention of offending you. Be careful, Miss Yuenu. Be cautious, Master. At the third watch, we return to the underworld. Flesh and blood for the sacrifice. The spirit realm is the path. The Ghost King descends. The gates of hell open. Gods block gods. Buddhas block Buddhas. My Lord. Miss Yuenu. My Lord. You're awake. We were all worried sick. How did I end up here? While you were unconscious, you kept muttering about the Temple of the God of Murder. So, we brought you here. When we arrived, you had already collapsed. Lord Di. Lord Di. You've been asleep for two hours now. What about Yuenu? Miss Yuenu, she turned into sand. My Lord. We have only three hours left to solve the case. Yaner. Bring a bowl. The process of solving this case is like a jigsaw puzzle. Each piece is crucial. My Lord, why did the sand suddenly start bleeding? This isn't sand. It's a type of Western Region venomous insect called &quot;Bloodsucking Sand.&quot; People infected with this venomous insect will have their bodies eaten by the bugs in an instant. The bugs that have consumed flesh and blood will instantly transform into pupae, resembling sand grains. These sand-incarnate bugs have a six-month dormancy period and are incredibly tough. This is their best disguise. So, you mean... these people were all eaten by the bugs? Exactly. The killer used this method to create the illusion of bodies turning into sand on the Ghost Path. The so-called &quot;Ghost Soldiers Murdering People&quot; is just a smokescreen. Everyone has secrets, some are just better at hiding them. It's time to unveil the truth. Zhou Zong. Here. Gather all the yamen officer. Yes. My Lord. Asu. My Lord. Go and do something for me. Yes. My Lord. How could there be a secret passage here? Yeah. It's unbelievable. I've already checked here before. How did I miss it? You're really not careful. Could there be another secret passage here too? Indeed. How can there be two secret passages? Let's go. Quickly catch up. Hurry up. This is the Kangyang Avenue leading to their lair. Quickly extinguish the torches. Is this a dead person or a living one? Looks like it's a dead one. Hahaha! Who? What's going on? It's him. Isn't he already dead? Didn't he turn to sand? What's going on? How can it be Captain Zhang? You actually found your way here. Great Detective of the Tang Dynasty. Your reputation is well-deserved. Yong Hero Li. This is a gift for you. Do you like it? Lord Di. I returned to the secret chamber and found my brother's jade pendant. I thought there must be some mystery in this cliff. There's another secret passage here. I followed it all the way. Unexpectedly, I fell into their trap. Di Renjie. I've been as cautious as walking on thin ice. I didn't expect that you would discover my flaw. Your trick of switching the beams and columns is indeed clever. It made me believe for a moment that there were really ghosts and monsters in this world. But unfortunately, there's always a flaw in perfection. You neglected your severed finger. From this, I deduced that you must have found a scapegoat. That day what we saw is not you. I even thought at one point that all of this was the work of Young Hero Li. In fact, You are the mastermind behind the Ghost Soldiers case. Hahaha. Even so, what can you do to me? As long as I awaken the Ghost soldiers. Ten Di Renjie's will have nowhere to hide. Well, since that's the case. Let me finish the story for you. Come. Twenty years ago, there was a small kingdom in the Western Regions. It was once prosperous. The King of Lu from the Central Plains brought the flames of war there. The kingdom was destroyed overnight. Perhaps it was fate. The prince and princess escaped. They were brought to the Central Plains by their national teacher. Many years later, the King of Lu died. This brother and sister found his treasure. And attempted to restore the Kingdom. It's just unbelievable. They used the Asura Poison Elixir to create puppets to transport the treasure. The Lu King's treasure is of enormous quantity. It's inevitable that they would be discovered during transport. So you used the Bloodthirsty Sands to ruthlessly kill them, and created the Ghost soldiers to commit murders, Tales from the Arabian Nights. The Ghost Soldiers threw the whole town into panic. You even spared no Imperial Envoys and Huang County magistrates. Am I right? Prince Yelan. Captain Zhang is from Yelan. Impressive. The real excitement is yet to come. If I'm not mistaken, The princess of Yelan Kingdom is also here. Di Renjie. Should I call her name? Miss Yuenu. Miss Yuenu is the princess of Yelan. What's going on? Didn't she turn into sand? Di Renjie. When I first saw you, I knew you would be our greatest rival of our siblings. I always suspected that seeing the Ghost Soldiers was an illusion. But if it was an illusion, then I should be unharmed. When I woke up in the Temple of the God of Murder, I knew, I had fallen into your trap again. That day, you probably wanted to kill me. But you couldn't bear to do it. So you created the illusion of me being killed by the Ghost Soldiers. In order to completely distance yourself from the Ghost Soldiers case. And seize the opportunity to revive the kingdom. Actually, you had many opportunities to kill me. Princess Yuenu. You are not from the Wusun Kingdom, but from Yelan. Where the Asura Poison Elixir, also known as Blue Scorpion. After being poisoned, one becomes mentally unclear, and can be controlled by others. You are using this to select Ghost Soldiers at Yimengzhai. I believe Young Hero Li's sworn brother has also fallen victim to the poison, right? You've finally shown yourself. Zhou County Magistrate. Oh, no. I should call you the national teacher of Yelan. The mastermind behind the Ghost Soldiers murders. Well done, Di Renjie. I thought I had no flaws in my plan. But you still saw through it. Good. On the path to the revival of Yelan, If you, Di Renjie, are a hurdle, then this place is your grave. Princess. Please. What is he planning to do? Yan'er. Fast. Hurry and destroy that mechanism. Di Renjie. Today is your death day. Lord Di. I'm here. Well done. Retrieve the Konglong Rod. Quickly help Young Hero Li solve the acupoint. What's going on? Not moving. What's going on? Di Renjie. You destroyed the Asking Heaven Device. The Ghost Soldiers are no longer under control. Hahaha! Enjoy it while you can. This is my greatest work. Young Hero Li. I'm here to save you. Quickly release my Tianhui acupoint. Young Hero Li. These Ghost Soldiers are controlled by him. Quickly cut off the needles on his body. Sworn Brother. Young Hero Li. He's no longer under control. Kill him quickly. Hurry. He's no longer your sworn brother. Hahaha! Sworn Brother. Brother. Brother. The national teacher. The national teacher. The national teacher. To die for the princess is my honor. Unfortunately. Old servant can't see the day of the kingdom's revival anymore. Don't. Report, My Lord. I've found a secret passage. Report to the Queen. The criminal has successfully solved the case of the Ghost Soldiers on time. Enjoying Heaven's grace. The mist over Xidu Town has cleared. Returning to the prosperity of the past. The people are grateful for the Queen's divine protection. Dear Di. You have successfully solved the case of the ghost soldiers as scheduled. Tomorrow, you can resume your duties at the Dali Temple. Our Great Tang Dynasty. With Dear Di, why fear the interference of ghosts and gods? I am just a humble servant. I dare not overestimate my abilities. The great cause of the nation, The prosperity of the people, we ask the Queen to bestow your blessings generously. With the nation as the top priority. Report! Your Majesty! The Xuanwu Gate's demon dragon has appeared. It is as high as sixty zhang. The princess has been... The princess has been taken away by the demon dragon.