(exciting music) - Driving with the roof down, alfresco, the wind in your hair, it's good for you, really good for you. Science says so. Hedonic tone, or happiness, increases by up to 19%. (car engine roars) Heart rate variability, or stress, is reduced by nearly a third. (transition whooshes) Alertness increases by up to 15%. Of course, it does help if and driving a car as fun as this. (upbeat music) (screen effect clicks) (gentle music) I didn't just make those They are part of a genuine study. Admittedly, there wasn't just 23 people, but it was done by a genuine doctor. In fact, an associate at Cranfield University, Dr. Lisa Dorn. (car engine roars) Driving with the roof down is something that I've always loved. It just, I dunno, it really does add to the experience. It makes a journey more Driving down a beautiful road like this, and it is a beautiful road, you get (inhales excitably) more in touch with the landscape. For a start, there are all the smells, that sort of warm, heady, heavy smell of all the bracken at this time of year. The smell of the pine trees, the smells also plant-based, emanating from the occasional caravan parked up at the side of the road. (gentle music) With the roof down, you hear additional ambient sounds and see more of your surroundings. Driving on open air paints a more vivid picture of a journey. And I can understand the idea that it decreases road rage as well, because in so many modern from the world that and it's a bit like social media. If you feel isolated from the world you are traveling through it's easier to be angry with it, to, I don't know, swear, cuss and be rude to people. But when they're just there, when there's no barrier between you, well, you're a bit more likely to mind your Ps and Qs, I think. Safe to say then, that Dr. Dorn is The study was actually done and that brings us in a rather because the ND generation was of course transformed But as you've probably noticed, this isn't a standard MX-5 or Miata. It has been fettled by BBR GTi. BBR stands for Brodie Brittain Racing. David Brodie being a very in the '70s and '80s. The company was founded and remains there to this day, in premises just behind the (exhaust rasps) Over the last 50 years or so it has probably been best but this latest upgrade of forced induction. The very neat installation for the SkyActiv-G two liter engine, and it comes in two stages. Stage one brings with it the and all the ancillaries like the intercooler or the the K&amp;N induction kit, and obviously the ECU upgrades, as well as these That takes power up to Stage two, well that's all You can have a more inter cooler as well, but it's really about this that then goes into the 2 1/2 that runs right the way and that increases power up to the aforementioned It's, as I say, a very What's... Must be an ND filter. (consolatory music) A small gag there for Mazda aficionados that also like photography. And whilst you're all recovering from such side-splitting humor, I'll take this brief that if you'd like Hagerty better script writers on these films, then perhaps you might consider taking out a Hagerty which gets you a lovely and access to Hagerty's and myriad discounts. It's a bargain. Talking of which, back to the Mazda and those BBR upgrades which start at 3,895 pounds excluding VAT for the DIY Stage one kit, and rise to just under 8,000 pounds including VAT for the with a Motorsport intercooler, and the full 250 brake horsepower. (car engine roars) Of course with this, Perhaps even more important, it's the torque that this has, It helps drop the naught from over seven seconds, (car engine roars) Weighing just a thousand kilos, i't's really potent. (car engine roars) Not quite as potent as the LS (car engine roars) And because it's supercharged, this conversion actually feels If you look at the power you'll see that they've They follow the same sort of trace. It still feels wonderfully linear, and there's still definitely (car engine roars) You don't get the real with this either, which I'm You could be forgiven for thinking that there was no forced because other than just the little, sort of almost chime as you lift off, you really don't get any sound from it. (car engine roars) (supercharger gently howls) Now you've no doubt noticed that this car also has Notably, a brake upgrade with that will set you back just There's also a set of 17-inch with Goodyear Eagle F1s, And finally, a fast-road suspension kit that you can have fully-fitted with the geometry set up of your choice, for a smidge over 1400 quid. Tot all that up, add in for about 13,000 pounds, and you're looking at about 25K all-in. (car engine roars) You could probably argue that starts here. (car engine roars) I love the fact that with these views, you can see the road for miles ahead. You get good sightlines but also you can see what's to come. It wets the appetite wonderfully. (exhaust rasps) What a view. (gentle music) And of course, part of the magic of a car like the Mazda MX-5 is that it feels at Welsh, single-track road like this. You could fit a Ferrari down here, but I don't think it In a bigger car, the in this, you get to choose still. It's a car you feel like you and place really accurately. Dive into the corner, just steer through, hook It is quick! But as with all good cars, you don't have to be As soon as you get into this car, it's the gear shift, I think. That's what tells you straight away that this is going to be fun. A tighter, more precise gear shift, it's harder to think of. (car engine roaring) The pedals are really well placed as well, so if you like indulging (car engine roars) it's easy. No, I'm not saying this car is perfect. There are things that perhaps, yes, you'd spend more money on. The suspension, it's It definitely gives you extra control, and actually has enough compliance over particularly the bigger bumps. I'd like suspension that a little more with the road but I suspect that would only really come with more expensive dampers. (car engine roars) And as luck would have it, BBR does offer a quartet for about a thousand pounds and I'd be intrigued to try them. (car engine roars) Other things, well, the steering, the steering is, perhaps certainly this generation. In fact, the last couple it's definitely better with but you still don't quite get the really, sort of, textural feedback, but it would be nice to have, just to know how much those It's direct in the way that it turns in, but it would be nice to just know how hard you're pushing those Goodyear Eagle F1s. (car engine roars) To that extent, the sense is actually much better. The fact that you are sort of practically sitting on the rear axle, obviously helps to that extent. (car engine roars) If this were mine I think I would have to put a just to get a little bit lower because for somebody of my height, it does feel a little bit like (gentle music) The bottom line though, is that this little and attainable. Much as I love having the chance to drive the mega-expensive resto-mods, and the hypercars that will it's important to remember can bring so much with a vastly lower barrier to entry. It's like the brilliant back street pub just around the corner with a guest list and bouncers. (car engine roars) Even with the roof up, I think this MX-5 would less stressed, more alert. (engine gently roars) So this MX-5 with the roof down, it's a winning combo. (car engine roars) (gentle music ebbs) (lettering thuds)