The amount of smoke coming that is not something that you would see. When it hits the ground, it's actually really cold. I am professor Gretchen Benedix. I have been studying meteorites and asteroids for about 20 years. Today, we're going to be looking at asteroid disasters in movies and on TV and judge how real they are. Now, we can get asteroids but they wouldn't be spiky with all the canyons and things. The asteroids that we do see do not have this kind of An asteroid will generally not have too much of this gas coming off of it. It may have some ice in it; that's not going to be the majority of it. I'm pretty sure that we would see something that size headed for us well before it got to that point. Very unrealistic. The biggest myth is that you actually have to avoid asteroids. There's a ton of bodies out there. It's a huge amount of space. It's really hard to get into a situation where you might hit some accidentally. You could potentially land on it. It's not like landing on Earth. You're dealing with a totally You know, we've had a couple that we've got missions and they have these and it's really, really, really hard just to do this tiny and land it down on the and then get it back off. The amount of power you'd it is impossible. We don't have enough explosive So, there have been some studies if you take an asteroid you need something like to break that apart completely. Now, the biggest thing that was 50 megatons. So you'd need 4,000 of those to blow up something 20 kilometers across. This thing in this movie You'd need 130,000 15-megaton bombs to try and blow that A shock wave, it's a pressure sound wave. You need atmosphere to have sound. So when the sound is playing in the movie about this explosion happening, that's possible because there is a lot of what we can see is atmosphere there. So there's some gas molecules, and that's going to cause But it's space, so usually there's a whole lot of space in between all of these molecules, so the sound is not going to You will have a shock wave, both sides of a thing. It'll only travel out one direction. That's not how you would actually try to destroy an asteroid that's coming for you. So I would give it a 1 out of 10. 65 million years ago is not when the asteroid got knocked out of the asteroid belt. That is when the asteroid No. 2 wrong, the asteroid It's not a doughnut of rocks Sometimes you can get an asteroid family. So you can get one asteroid that has maybe three or four other So, this asteroid gets knocked out. You can have collisions They do get the size of the rock correct. Over time, the sizes of the have actually gotten smaller, because they do run into each other, but they're really far away from Earth. So not all of them are going to get onto a collision course with Earth, and they don't necessarily to stick it on a direct collision course to the inner solar system. The collisions that occur out there over time have gotten fewer and fewer, because we've kind of gone 4 1/2 billion years ago to There's a mission called DART. They're trying to take a small asteroid. They're going to push it and see if it will change Then the movie takes a well, it missed. The orbit was such that but it flew by. Now, we do have objects that fly by. That's kind of cool. And that, I don't think a 6-mile asteroid would actually skim the atmosphere and then bounce out again. But you can do that with Again, 1 out of 10 for realism. I love this show. And in terms of the realism they actually use real They have coated it with material that would make it hard to see. The amount of light that's is the only way we can tell So we can see it moving, and if it's moving fast the amount of light it is how we tell it's there. So if they've coated it with then system that they have in place to detect incoming So that actually makes sense. I would be surprised if he because that would be a that you would kind of notice There have been fireballs We get images of them, and people don't hear them or see them. Or sometimes people will hear something but never see the fireball itself. For this particular scene, You'd feel the thermal radiation before you felt the shock wave. That's definitely realistic. So even if you're, like, you might feel the thermal whereas you might not feel the shock wave for half an hour or more, an hour. And the effects of the thermal Your clothing could burn But I imagine that it on how far away from the impact you are. So at least an 8 out of 10 for realism. Pause on the comet. Let's talk about that first. There's this whole bunch of smaller bodies in between Mars and Jupiter and asteroids are really Comets come from farther Comets are composed The fireball that we're seeing here, these bits of material and they are still moving fast enough so that they can exhibit a glow as well. That is a normal thing that you would see, just not at this size and distance. The size of this rock as the rock that caused the So having shelters is a good idea, because we know what that asteroid did. We'd want to be underground. Potentially could devolve into that level, of governments making choices about randomly picking people to save and then finding shelters What we're seeing is that the entire Earth has been wrecked and poisoned. There would be potentially on top of everything. But you would not of shock damage or structural damage that is being shown here for You could potentially for quite a while, and then 2 or 3 out of 10. We've never witnessed something this size hit a terrestrial planet. What we're seeing is the smoke trail. We're not actually seeing the fireball. And then an explosion. That's not how it works. It would be something and then a trail of smoke behind it. You know, we have evidence of this. In 2015, this came through the atmosphere in Russia, and it fragmented, and people caught the So, the impact itself a lot of material to come out. I don't think it would It would more spill out sideways, and then the shock wave would come after. Certain impacts can burst your eardrums because of the airburst afterwards. So if it's big enough, yeah, you can get noise levels that are well beyond breaking your eardrums. And that's the way the cookie crumbles! There's a trail, a skidded track to the end of the trail. No. That doesn't happen with impacts. Impacts are an all-or-nothing thing. Even if they come in at it will still make a single hole, and it won't have a gouge in That's gonna be a zero on this one. Does that look like a problem to you? Meteor shower! They call this a meteor shower. The size of that thing is not a meteor. Those are big rocks. And we now know meteors are really tiny, small specks of dust. So meteors are different than asteroids and comets and meteorites. We're talking about tiny dust particles that are between the size of sand grains to maybe a small pebble size that are burning up in the atmosphere. So this is a fireball, or we could even call it a bolide, if we're feeling super scientific. If you see a fireball and it stand there until the because if it's small, you might be able to jump out of the way. But probably not. And if it's big, it doesn't matter. I get this a lot. &quot;I saw a fireball over there, over on the other side of my field.&quot; No. If you see a fireball, it's actually really far away, because it's very high in the atmosphere. Woo-hoo, I'm on fire! Woo-hoo! You would not be catching fireballs. And if a fireball hit you you would be fried. You'd be in the crater From the perspective of So I give this a, I think a 1 out of 10. From the perspective of a rock hitting the ground yes, that's a meteorite. Honey, bring your phone. C'mon, c'mon! Don't go near it! Don't go near it! It glowing on the ground, no, that's wrong. So that means there's It might glow as it's coming because the chemistry of the rock might interact with the atmosphere. So you could get Purple would tell you something about the elements that are in it. Meteors that glow different colors, but again, those are just Smells. The amount of smoke coming that is not something that you would see. A meteorite coming through the atmosphere, it heats up, but only the outside. So when it hits the ground, because space is cold and And there have been reports very shortly after they've fallen and them having ice on them. And if you're going to get burned from it, it's going to be freezer You can get close to them as long as they haven't Peekskill meteorite in the US, October 1992, the meteor was seen It actually hit the boot and punched a hole through the car. Did you plant those? No. It would not be something after having gone through unless the meteorite which, generally they're just rocks. The idea that there could that's one area of study in our world. We check for evidence of either organic material or the precursors of organic things that could potentially harbor life. We haven't found any so far. So we've found precursor materials, but no actual evidence of life. The color, it doesn't glow on the ground at all. I'm going with zero out of 10 on this one. This is the comet, and it is hitting water. The odds of anything hitting water are really high on the Earth. That tsunami wave looks very high to me, but I think you could get a tsunami wave that was something like 600 meters high with the size of that object. The running-away part, in general, you're going to have some time before the tsunami hits. As we know from recent in the middle of the Pacific, it takes a long time for the tsunami to get to wherever it's going. If the impact is upon The only way that happens And the only way that happens And so none of those things are happening. You wouldn't have this as far as I think this is. So even if the impact had the depths of the water would be less, so the wave would be lower. This is completely ... no. I would probably head for if I knew it was going to hit water. &quot;Deep Impact,&quot; for realism, Why does the ephemeris keep Professor Mindy? So, this is really good. I like this aspect of it, is we're going to run through the numbers and we're going to do the calculations from first principles. 0.0 means we're getting That doesn't mean it's going to hit, 'cause 0.05 AU is still The way we currently check for things that might be potentially hazardous is when we do these calculations, we work out, well, if it's going to be closer than 0.05 AU from the Earth, then we call it potentially hazardous. There's a good chance it'll never hit. So his worry is probably not unfounded. It happens several times a at this 0.05 or less. But generally, the sizes of the objects are only a few meters or This particular size comet It would not take out the Earth. It would destroy it, but It would make it a mess, but it wouldn't even I think they said it's, Even the moon-forming event, which was a Mars-sized object did not destroy the Earth. The probability of something the size of what these things show actually hitting is so because the solar system So don't be afraid. We're doing a really good We have a much better handle Thanks so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video,