- Can you explain how I mean, think about it. We've all seen them. There's that little and down really fast, leaving a trail of stitches behind them. But if you think about it for a second, how are they doing it? Because the needle is through the fabric. If you're hand sewing, you have to pass the needle up and down. You have to let go of the needle and grab onto it on the other side. So in order to invent the to invent a whole new way of sewing. It's one of these things that but is so important. Every piece of clothing you've ever put on virtually was made by a sewing machine. So in this video, I'm going to explain how sewing machines work. And I promise when you so incredibly satisfying. And what you'll realize is that these machines are performing tiny mechanical miracles every second. A part of this video was brought to you by KiwiCo, more about them - The foot pedal is right You can gently rest it. It So easy does it, and you - All right. Ah, all right. (sewing machine rumbling) This is amazing. - [Noah] I find it meditative. - If I were going to sew two pieces of fabric together, this Weaving the needle back and forth through both pieces of fabric. This is known as a running stitch, and there are more sophisticated But if you're trying to mechanize into a major problem, which is that any time you pass the needle through the fabric, you have and pick it up again on the other side. This is almost impossible at least a machine from 200 years ago. So in order to invent the to come up with a totally And this came in three breakthroughs. (dramatic music) Human have been sewing clothes for tens of thousands of years. In 2016, researchers found a that dates back to about 50,000 years ago. The crazy thing is that homo sapiens didn't It was inhabited by the of early humans. So sewing isn't just a homo sapien thing, it is a human thing. The needle is made of bone. But in other regards, it a sharp end pierced through fabric and an eye on the other Needles have remained basically unchanged for tens of thousands of years. Artifacts from caves in India, China, and Japan, That is until 1755. Charles Frederick Wiesenthal was a German inventor living in England. We're not exactly sure what motivated him, some believe he was trying but maybe he was just tired of flipping the needle But what he created was on both sides, so you and forth through the fabric He patented his invention, a which may have sped up sewing a little. But the two-sided needle used by all sewing It moved the eye of the But how does that help? When I put the needle into the fabric, the thread but when I pull it out, the So it seems like we've achieved nothing. We need to find a way to tangle the thread when it's at the bottom of the stitch to stop it from pulling out. And luckily, there are (dramatic music) If you can keep a loop of as I pull the needle out, well over and pass that needle through the loop, forming a little link. And if I do that again, I can form a chain of these stitches. That is why this is The chain stitch was one of the first stitches by sewing machines. It's really hard to say who invented the first sewing machine. There were just so many people working on the problem at the same time and there are many competing claims. In 1790, Thomas Saint drew for a sewing machine design, that he ever built a prototype. In 1814, Joseph Madersperger It took him a decade to build the machine, but he never commercialized it. He spent the rest of his life In 1830, Frenchman Barthelemy Thimonnier built his own version. It created a chain stitch He was granted a patent and set up a garment factory There, they began manufacturing uniforms for the French army but this A mob of 200 angry tailors and destroyed all of his machines. It took a few more decades before sewing machines to be commercially viable. The two most reliable ways to build a chain stitch at nearly the same time and Charles Raymond received It was easy enough for me in the model, but it's much more difficult to design a machine to do Charles Raymond's design used a hook. The needle punctures the fabric and carries the thread down with it. Then as the needle moves up, and the fabric shortens and buckles forming a At exactly this instant, the stretching it into a loop. And as the needle comes back and the needle passes through the loop. The needle comes all the way down and then as it moves back up, and the fabric buckles again, the hook catches this into a loop for the needle Gibbs had a similar design, So as the needle lowers the rotating hook spins around, and then the hook grabs the second loop. It took Gibbs thirty-seven to get this incredible and then that same shape was used on over 80 models of sewing The looper was held by pieces that it didn't fall out, for the thread to pass We are showing a simplified But there's a flaw with this simple way of making a chain stitch. If the thread comes out all the stitching. It's remarkable how quickly and easily the thread gets pulled out because there's barely any The only friction holding each from the previous stitch. So once one goes, they So people developed more that use more thread and are more robust. You'll likely find chain of your jeans together. You can also embroider beautiful patterns with the chain stitch. - Anything that kind of what it was originally used for all kind of lettering and flowers. - You're sort of doing if I feel it this direction, You're trying to kind of And I think as you become more that's where your work begins (sewing machine rumbling) - Besides the chain stitch, there is a completely different And honestly, it's kind of genius. All it requires is two Now this spool of thread So here's how it works. The needle goes through two pieces of fabric all the way down, and then you pass the second through a loop in the top spool, and then bring the needle and what we have done is interlocked these two pieces of thread. That's why this is known as a lock stitch. In 1846, Elias Howe patented it and to promote his new creation, he staged a live sewing demonstration, him and his sewing machine Howe's machine worked, The machine used a curved down vertically, and it in a straight line. Five years later, Allen improved the lock stitch sewing machine receiving two patents, one The first patent was for the vibrating shuttle Although it's called a vibrating shuttle, it actually oscillates back and forth and inside it is a small bobbin of thread. As it moves forward, it from the needle forming a through this loop, it by intertwining the top thread The shuttles movement is synchronized with the needles up-and-down motion. The shuttle was pushed around by pieces of metal tightly enough but with enough of a gap for the thread to pass all the way around the shuttle. This type of sewing machine in the late 1800s. Many millions of just the and they were built incredibly robustly. There are many machines that are now over a hundred years old Sewing machines were of planned obsolescence took off. The second patent that Wilson for how most modern sewing machines work. Instead of a shuttle moving inside a rotating hook. So let's see how that works. The needle comes down, and it goes down really low, and then it pops back up a little bit creating this little bulge right here. And when the rotating hook by that rotating hook, so that this thread can pass And then needle pops back up. We pull in the excess and we've formed another From this, it might look from the top because when to pass an entire loop around the bobbin but that thread then gets pulled back up. So we actually filmed in slow motion a sewing so you can see just how much in from the top. It looks like a lot, but of thread from the top spool The tension needs to be identical on both the top and bottom thread so the same amount of thread If the tension is off, the in the middle of the two fabrics leading to a much weaker stitch. This is true for both vibrating shuttle and rotating hook lock stitch machines. But what does result is a lot of friction. You can imagine this piece of thread is getting pulled back down and back up a whole bunch So what was developed in the sewing needle right here to reduce the friction between as it has to keep getting pulled down to go around the bobbin when it's tensioned again. This resulted in less fraying and resulted in a cleaner stitch. Practically all modern sewing on one side. But there's still an After a stitch has been made, (dramatic music) In the earliest sewing machines, by hand after every stitch, but that was obviously slow, inefficient, and the stitches wouldn't A few designs were attempted, but the most successful by Allen B. Wilson. His idea was a small that would press down on the fabric. When the needle is not in the with grooves in it pushes up from below. It grabs the fabric and of an inch advancing it to This design is used in practically all sewing machines today. They're called feed dogs. There are some modified versions of this idea, like the for chain stitch embroidery. - With these style of machines, there's a handle underneath the machine and it rotates the entire - [Derek] Okay. - And this presser foot, that will basically advance So right now we've got this but back then these cables and were all powered by one big generator, one big like steam power And so I'm sure the There used to be a pin, 'cause we don't need them anymore. And what you would do is you'd pull down and it would immediately because this was spinning continuously 'cause it was all hooked up by one motor. Like nowadays, when you of like feather it a little Back then, they were going - [Derek] You got to gotta be ready. - Yep. Those women were heroes. I mean, unbelievable skill. - The most famous name associated with sewing machines is But Singer did not invent He was a shrewd businessman for various parts and Inspired by interchangeable parts that he saw in production of firearms, he optimized the production process and his company was able to drop the price of sewing machines from a That's just over $300 in 2023 terms. This lower price meant he to families rather than to corporations. Singer's business was also one to offer an installment payment to pay it off over a few months, rather than paying the Singer became one of the largest and the first American Before the advent of sewing over 12 hours to sew a single shirt. It now takes less than 30 minutes. In 1900, the average American of its total income on clothing. In 2003, it was less than 4%, but despite spending In 2019, the worldwide average number of garments owned was over 130. Each year, a hundred billion And just in the US of clothing ends up in landfill. That's nearly 35 kilograms of and child that is thrown away each year. But should we blame sewing machines? The sewing machine is brilliant. Invented, iterated upon, and They really have revolutionized the world. All it took was inventing a Hey, this part of the by KiwiCo, a company that's and learning about the I know that the best way to and I personally got a of sewing machines by building models, actually using a sewing and putting it back together. Now, KiwiCo have been a because they genuinely I mean, my children love them. Not only are they a great learning tool, but they're also really fun. When the crates arrive at my to open them and start This month we built a coin eating robot, and amidst all the fun they were having, there were also lessons in and mechanical linkages. Each crate comes with all detailed instructions and an explanation of the science behind the project. It's so nice that everything is there and ready to go, so you don't or gather any extra supplies. I can just enjoy quality time playing and learning with my kids. The crates are designed by experts to be educational and enjoyable, and they have different to all age groups down to newborns. KiwiCo believes that the best and that is definitely a So go to kiwico.com/veritasium to get your first month's crate free. This offer is exclusive and with the holiday season coming up, this is your friendly reminder that KiwiCo crates also make great gifts. So go to kiwico.com/veritasium, subscribe and get your first month's crate for free. I want to thank KiwiCo of the video, and I wanna