Hi Dr Bernard here. Recreational inhalants are all unsafe. Any psychoactive effect they might have, cannot user's body, as I will tell you about in Don't do it. A Man Inhaled Paint Thinner Fumes For 7 Hours This Is What Happened To His Kidneys. CJ is an 18 year old man presenting to the Paramedics tell the admitting nurse that they a distinct lack of muscle tone. Someone described him as "floppy, and sloppy." As he tries to correct the record, CJ speaks voice. Earlier that day, CJ was in his regular routine. Every morning before class, he would find was put into his lungs for an appreciable Sometimes he wouldn't even make it to class thing. Earlier in his life, CJ had some family issues. When he was in his early teens, one of his a rough environment, and picked up some techniques breaks they'd get. These "techniques" sometimes involved The first time CJ tried putting these into under his neck, like it was a blood vessel He thought he could hear a kettle pot whistle When he exhaled, he tried talking and he could pitched than the last. And it was a short lived effect. As the time passed, CJ started doing this than before. I can stop anytime, he thought. At first, he kept doing it because he thought He believed it took his mind off all the other But one day, before school, CJ just started He hadn't realized he had walked outside And as he was found sprawled out by the train over and out of his mind. 911 was called and CJ is brought to the emergency At examination, the medical team finds that One of the words used to describe CJ's appearance And when the medical team did an exam, they and legs. Clearly, the inhalants did something to his Maybe it did something to his muscles because But, the muscles are controlled by the brain wrong there too. Are these problems happening because the inhalant Or did it do something to just his nerves? Or just his muscles? Or is it a combination of these? And how would the medical team figure this When you breathe, the gas from that air is dioxide exhaled. In the setting of inhalant misuse, the inhalant-soaked circulate all throughout the body. This can start to explain the effects from But if you look at paint thinner physically, In this container is water, and when paint don't mix. And that's because paint thinners are made One of these paint thinner oils is a chemical -Philic meaning affinity for and lipo- meaning This means that it preferentially mixes with it's inhaled and in the bloodstream, it It wants to get into body tissue and organs And if the brain is made of at least 60% fat, from inhaling the paint thinner should make As the toluene floods in, it immediately starts The combination of all these happening at the brain scrambles to try to readapt itself, is so short lived. But as time and repeated misuse continue, this change as parts of the nervous system The confusion. The disorientation. The incoherent words in an unusually high All of this explaining how CJ's brain is permanent damage has already happened, but When he presented to the emergency room, the erratically. The heart is connected to the brain by the It's supposed to keep its own rhythm. The heart is a cardiac muscle. The arms and legs are moved by skeletal muscle. These two tissues are very similar, but they're And they're not connected to the brain by CJ having an erratic heart rhythm, and skeletal somehow impacted all different kinds of muscles A blood test finds that CJ is not only dehydrated, Hypo meaning low. Kal- referring to potassium, an element that form in the body that's formally known as table of elements, and emia meaning presence Low potassium presence in blood. This was found with acidemia. Acid, formally defined as the concentration case suggesting a metabolic dysfunction in Both of these give the medical team some more Potassium has important functions in the body, cells to do things. In muscles, potassium signals for relaxation. If there's low potassium presence in blood, relax properly. This could explain why his heart rhythm was Blood vessels are a muscle too, and if CJ his blood vessels can't relax, so they stay This means that blood has a hard time flowing CJ becomes profoundly weak to the point where And as the medical team look further at the have started to die, because they're now This is called rhabdomyolysis. Rhabdo meaning striated or in this case skeletal. Myo meaning muscle. Lysis meaning a breaking down of. Skeletal muscle breakdown. This is life threatening, it's a medical independent of the permanent brain damage But how did toluene do this? This brings us back to lipophilicity. Some inhaled toluene vapors go right to the of the body. One of which is the liver, known as the detox Lipophilic compounds tend to stay absorbed is to make chemicals more hydrophilic, so be filtered out by the kidneys and concentrate In the liver, toluene is "broken down" he has ACIDemia, but something's wrong. This brings us to an idea called equilibrium. Hippuric acid is a combination of hippurate Both existing in balance, because acid is Hippurate meets the goals of liver metabolism, of the blood and concentrate it into the urine. But, hippurate isnt supposed to be there. And there's a lot of it, because CJ had before. And because of equilibrium, hippurate has Urine is electrically neutral. It's not going to have a charge. Meaning that for every hippurate molecule follow. And if potassium has a plus one charge, then is getting sucked out of his blood to match Hippurate gets filtered quicker than acid, the medical team found CJ had acidemia. The kidneys are doing their job of filtering But the result of this hypokalemia, is going to rhabdomyolysis. The muscle remnants floating around CJ's way to the kidneys. It's here where they get filtered out too, They contain iron pigments and proteins that They damage the inner lining of the tubules And then blood flow to the kidneys gets restricted. The unstable iron reacts with and destroys But this still isn't the end of CJ's problems. When he presented to the emergency room, his As his condition continued to get worse as shaking in place, not actually beating and The toluene misuse targeted his brain, his and destroyed his body, permanently. As CJ was quickly resuscitated, he was transferred But as the days pass, the medical team notes way they should in a normal 18 year old man. They find that he has cognitive deficits, damage. Because he was only 18 years old at the time, It may still be able to develop in spite of of permanent damage all across his body. And he's going to have dysfunctions in many of this misuse. In English, they're called "Inhalants," can vary. Toluene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. Aromatic refers to this benzene ring, not although it does smell in this case, and toluene compared to other inhalants. Some chemicals are halogenated, meaning they known to cause sudden cardiac death when misused. Sometimes what gets inhaled are refrigerants, and those can cause toxic leukoencephalopathy, of white matter, all of which is permanent. If you're exposed to some permanent or white incidentally, you're not likely to get permanent Of course you want to do your best to not times. But if you deliberately misuse it like how for an appreciable amount of time, that's Similarly, industrial workers can be exposed impacts can happen if their workplace doesnt if they don't take the precautions, either For CJ, the parts of his brain and his kidneys, When he was no longer critically ill, he was recovery. Thanks so much for watching. Take care of yourself. And be well.