This is Identity, the Breton. After being convicted for a crime he wasting away in the Imperial prisons. No one survived more than a decade in But Identity persisted. He emerged as a husk of who he once was. His talents had faded like a painting left He hadn't actually committed any crimes Perhaps it was the gods themselves who Only they could have kept him alive all He must have done something to anger them, and they must want All our attributes and skills are starting to set this up in Morrowind than in Morrowind had a mod to do it. With Oblivion, I gotta go one skill at a If there is a mod to do it, I couldn't Although to be fair, I didn't look very Because this character never met the we're going with, this run won't have us Oblivion nonsense. No, the gods demand their succor, by reforming the Knights of the Nine. You might think I planned meticulously for we'll be and how brutal Oblivion's level I picked a Breton because they have decent extra magicka independent of my levels, I was too impatient to make decisions. I expected this run to die about an hour I mean, look, I've got two hit points. But somehow I persevered and finished it. If I were to do it again, I'd make several with the benefit of hindsight and all, but I'm not going to Narratively Spurious Cyborg, where are I'm nearby, but no one would know, With the virtual private network Surfshark prying eyes of your internet service what website you're visiting and using any number of purposes. Rather than feeding this data straight to data through a VPN so your ISP only sees Who you talking to? It's none of your business. But if privacy isn't your concern, maybe you're You know The Office? That show from the UK that also has a US Quite the unique thing they did. The US version is available on Netflix, You can watch it in the UK, though. With Surfshark, you can use one of their different country, and Netflix will stream data And you know a small thing that I think Unlimited devices. Why do so many services limit devices? I'm just gonna disconnect one and add a They're effectively unlimited, Surfshark doesn't do that. But if you're still hesitant to buy a VPN know that Surfshark offers a 30-day If you don't like it, no commitment. And if you use the code JBN, or use the extra four months for free. Are you in the attic... again? Yeah. It's just so warm up here. I forgot how cold the past was. So, god-succor. Where can we find that? Well, Cyrodiil doesn't have a red light But Anvil does have a lighthouse. So that should be a good start. It was the Chapel of Dibella that suffered There's a madman ranting and raving about And unlike in the real world, sometimes these He tells us Umaril the as was foretold by Pelinal Whitestrake, that fabled hero who found elves... a He might also be a robot from the future. I... I don't know. The line between speculation and frayed as the end of an old shoelace. Umaril, according to the Prophet, the race of elves that once ruled over Men, capital M, so humans. He's also known as the Unfeathered, implying If a king were blind, he might get the more so if he was But if he wasn't blind, as most people aren't, He's just... he's just John. So perhaps the Ayleids weren't Mer, Berds. The joke makes more sense with captions Ooh, some Argonians have feathers. Maybe... maybe the Ayleids were Argonians. All canon leads to Argonians. Ages ago, Pelinal slew Umaril, return and seek gods who helped bring To stop Umaril, we'll need the aid of the And them-forbid they just help me out of No, we gotta collect some MacGuffins. We gotta gather up the relics of the and become champion of the I guess the gods in the Elder Scrolls what with their being dead and all, To get the gods' attention, we have to do something to really wow them. What do gods love? Prayers. What do gods really love? Prayers in specific locations after you've We must travel the Pilgrim's Way. Only after we visit the wayshrines of each will the gods deem us worthy of insight. The Prophet gave us a map to follow, wayshrines, and you don't have to visit As long as you visit nine wayshrines, This is also the path you want to absolve If your infamy is too at temples and cities That's the price of crime, I guess. And since praying at the shrines is free, are evil, at least in the eyes of the Otherwise, they'd have just cured There's no other excuse. It's not like there's a monetary barrier This ain't Morrowind. You got a cough? Must be a habitual liar. Dry eyes? Must be a thief. Infected toenail? Child molester. Arkay, god of birth and death. It is he who protects sapient souls from This ties into the whole revenant We'll talk about that a bit later. Mara, goddess of love, fertility, She's nothing like that uncouth Dibella. Rat, killer of men. We'll just avoid him. Dibella, goddess of love and beauty. I like to imagine Mara is the social A couple holding hands in a park, watching Dibella is the close-the-door-behind-you Upside down pineapples, you know. Oh no, the rat followed me! And in front of the shrine of Dibella too. How sacrilegious. Akatosh, dragon god of time. Sometimes he breaks and history... history So with everything at level 1, obviously That's why I've been beating wildlife I could find Nothing says &quot;bless me divines&quot; like Hand to hand is governed by strength, extra strength attributes to allocate. We also beat up some mud crabs. Bit tougher than fish. Julianos, god of wisdom and logic and So I hope by logic, they mean it in a Not in the annoying online argument, You made a fallacy, therefore it's wrong. That is the fallacy fallacy. Julianos, god of boolean arithmetic. Please. By choosing the battle mage class, we started with several And that means starting out with a few low While running about in the world, I've been Because mysticism levels up really fast, and it's one of my major skills. This is all to say we got to level 2 during Strength, intelligence, and speed. More carrying capacity means we can join tools to sell for profit. It's hard to do that when you can barely But with 6 strength, we can do anything. You know what they say about Khajiit with Me-ow. I think my favorite thing to come out of Khajiiti woman hisses at a dragon. Uh, okay. Can't say I'm not happy with this Weird. Eek, a rat! It can't get me on this rock! *Gets me on the rock* Kynareth. Goddess of the heavens, the wind, Patron to travelers and sailors alike. She's also associated with the Thu'um in Why is this? Well, in the real world, there's a close Spirit actually comes from the Latin word To early man, the clearest difference something that's inanimate is their Seems pretty reasonable. In fact, animate has Proto-Indo-European Aspirate. Spirit. Breathe life into. There's a reason the Greybeards worship What is the Thu'um but one's own spiritual Why doesn't it use magicka? Because it's different. We've got another level coming up, hands on some endurance attributes. Every level up with low endurance is just So the sooner we can bump up this One benefit of having skills at such a low The cost is 10 times your level, so training from level 1 to After a few more casts of Detect Life, We didn't net 5 points to 3 attributes Intelligence, Willpower, and Endurance is I went for Willpower instead of Speed for And look at that. 3 endurance levels, and we've already Somehow. Hmm. Oh, it's a bit different than Morrowind. Not only do you get one tenth of your you level up, but your base health is So even if you level up endurance late in you'll still get some health Gotcha. I think that's a bit better than Morrowind's is a bit too unforgiving. Stendarr, god of mercy. Unless you're a daedra worshipper. The vigilance of Stendarr ain't got no Try bringing that shit to Morrowind. See where that gets you. Zenithar, god of work and commerce. I love the idea of a god of craftsmen and The god of honest pay for honest work. Leave it to the Empire to co-opt him into The final shrine, Talos. God of... Who the hell knows. And there's a friggin minotaur here. What the hell, Talos? I'm level 3. Duh, um... Pray and flee. Rejoice! We've completed the pilgrimage of the nine And gained the power of Pilgrim's Grace. A greater power that boosts all of our Usable once per day. I can't move. Spooky voice, please. There's a bull-man... Oh, he's leaving. What? I can't hear a word you're saying, CHIM or whatever. Nah, it didn't really help. You can't just walk away and expect me to *sigh* Eh, what do you expect from the ghost of a These games are weird. Oh, goddammit. We've got a shrine probably give this hunter Can't fast travel while it's here anyway. Or maybe this dog will be my nemesis. Oh, wow. I guess he truly is a hunter. Maybe he should be the one doing this So Umaril is returning. After his defeat at Pelinal's hands, regain its strength, thanks to his The only way to defeat him is by petitioning the Nine for their aid. It's been a minute since this all went relics ended up, but he's pretty sure the The entrance of the ruins is submerged, so Hehe. E-FISH-ent *mumbling*...a fish. We can't hold our breath for very long, drowning, we can die super fast. Not a lot of health. What is it with Oblivion's NPCs being so So many of them lurch forward when they It makes weaving in and out of their What, did Bethesda expect me to have more couple hits before dying or something? That's ridiculous. Why would they expect somebody to play That's absurd. We want these Welkynd Stones. They fully restore your I'll be using quite a bit of magicka. See, I knew this dungeon would set me up. This was all planned. You should rest and meditate on what I probably should. Leveling up can hurt due to how Oblivion grinding and get our endurance up just a hit or two from these skellies. The extra scaling might be outweighed by First, we steal 500 gold from the lockbox A very hard lock indeed, but I'm a pro If you listen carefully, there's a faint, when the tumbler is safe to set. You can pick these locks with sound alone. Next, we watch the arena hopefuls spar getting us an easy five We do some jumping jacks in the Anvil Not an amazing spread, but it's progress. To power level block for more endurance Varel Morvayn and head over to In her basement are a bunch of rats, is that their aggression resets when you This means we can aggro them, block their the basement without them following us. We can also buy block training in the first since it's cheaper at lower levels. Now, before you post that comment-- I saw you typing it after we got those We are gonna get those gloves. You know the ones. I was just waiting for the cover of night. Behind another very hard lock are the that boost our hand-to-hand by 20 points. I don't need to explain why these will be They're light, and they boost the strength No-brainer. And while these two sleep, we can do some attribute points on our next level up. Vanua should be less of a problem now. Yeah, not great, but we're at least The magic definitely helps. Two fiery touches, and a punch. Skeleton archers! Will they plague me here in Cyrodiil as The answer might surprise you. I don't know, Doc. I think it's more than just a pulled Hmm, I see your point. Perhaps I should use the humble bow and The stealth archer. It calls to me. Nah, this blows. An ossuary of skeletons later, After inspecting him, we realize he's a So he probably died some time ago. His journal reveals that he was once a to collecting the very same relics we're And evidently they're bad at it. We also learn the location of their former the West Weald It's worth looking into, but only after we We desecrate his corpse further by further into the ruins to find more 20 minutes later, we emerge from the shrine and take the helm of the Crusader. Why did they ban levitation? Because you could skip half this dungeon The Empire didn't want to make saving the It does suck that the helm is heavy armor. Light armor versions do exist, and I but I couldn't find anything. I think it has to do with your armor level and that affects every other piece Since we trained block with an iron shield, so our heavy armor was a higher level than Hopefully the rest of the armor isn't too The helm isn't much to write home about. Fortify restoration by 2 points, Uh... yeah, alright. Like most Oblivion on the level you were but not the personality. It's always 25 personality. I don't know why that doesn't scale. Could you imagine if Sir Amiel hadn't died We'd have gotten the helm, but we'd have His dying is the only headquarters of the How generous the gods are to have *Flies buzzing* 5 to strength, 5 to agility, and 5 to Agility will keep us from being staggered How significant will level 6 be compared I don't know. But at least if I complain about getting refused to level up my agility. See, this is just a preliminary excuse to The headquarters are out in the wilderness I realize what Skyrim does better than We can debate whether Skyrim is an RPG with RPG elements. We can also debate if Oblivion's quests This and that, you know, we can...we can go all But is it that hot of a take for me to way more interesting in Skyrim than it is A lot of people say Skyrim is wide, I don't always disagree with that, but man, As desaturated as it could be in some Oblivion's overworld is pretty bland. Here we are at the Priory of the Nine. It's seen better days, but by slotting Sir Amiel's ring A set of steers ap-pairs. Uh, a set of stairs appear. A set of stairs appears? A portal into the basement. I assume the spiders aren't members of the See, spiders don't recognize Talos as a legs represents a sacrifice made by each Eight divines. Eight legs. There can't be a ninth. But soon after the Aedra spawned spiders the need to create something on their own. And yet they didn't know how. They sent their pleas into Aetherius, creative desires, but the divines were The only one to answer was Mephala, power to weave their own webs. Yep. That's what happened. The Cuirass of the Crusader is in the a bunch of ghosts show up. Ah, Sir Amiel. You're looking well. Dude, take the compliment. Here's a theory. Bethesda wasn't cheap when it came to They got Wes Johnson to voice everyone in just a ruse by Sheogorath, also voiced by Everyone is Sheogorath. So we gotta fight some knights, And then Sir Casimir, without any time to Sir Ralvis, are you shitting me? How many of these guys do I have to flail Yeah, the Welkynd Stones are nice, regeneration, I'm screwed. I'm gonna run out. I can't reliably punch them because like they're the blades on a giant wind Maybe this random armor will help. Fifteen minutes later, and Sir Ralvis I swear, unlocking the piety prayer had Another one? Only half? Oh shit, Sir Caius? There ain't no way I'm fighting that Not like this. CHIM Powers, activate! Now we know what to expect when we go to I have an idea. It's a bit cheesy, but I think it's our Short of grinding for hours. It's not an exploit though, so worry not. It's interesting. We need to do some enchanting. Either we do all the recommendation quests tallow candles and set up our own I suspect the combat portions of the ass, given how tanky zombies are. So let's go the private contractor mage There's nothing wrong with making an so after joining the Thieves' Guild by Your crimes have made you unfit to Walk the Pilgrim's Way and once again seek Oh, what, we have to remain upstanding to Talk about letting the perfect be the Might as well get our fill on crime before We ransack the shops around the Imperial and sell the loot to Ognar and Bruma for In Skingrad, we play along with Glarthir's He tells us to spy on a few people, but He pays us a few hundred gold for that, those people, we can either follow through gold, or we can report him to the guards, Glarthir's key to steal 800 gold from his It's less profit, but it doesn't involve I'm not opposed to killing, don't get me effort of not getting caught. With about three thousand gold in our and borrow a bunch of their soul gems. We'll sell the smaller ones, and buy Soul Trap from Alberic Litte. Light? Whatever. Perhaps you're starting to understand what We need 25 mysticism before we can our way to Fort Istirus, we'll cast Detect Running into bandits isn't a death in the single digits. A bit of armor never hurt either. During the Mages' Guild questline, investigate the Necromancers holed-up you witness a Necromancer performing a ritual The Dark Fissure isn't the only place Fort Istirus also has a similar shrine. Once every eight days, the shade of the On this day, the Necromancer's Moon Arkay grants Mundus, allowing for the Arkay typically protects sapient souls eclipsed, his power is weakened, that are strong enough to capture those We place a grand soul gem inside the altar Soul Trap, and the grand soul gem is The souls of Men and Mer. And Khajiit and Argonians. Although there's argument to say that The only reason I'm doing this is because showing up unless we're a much higher But black souls have the same strength as strength of the NPC. We want a big soul, and this is the Who can we kill? Bandits would work. But bandits tend to have weapons, Instead, we go to Bravil and visit the Not only can we kill the skooma fiends, but there's no legal repercussions. This killing was observed by Forces Ooh, what could that mean? Skooma boosts both strength and speed. It might be worth having a bit of this on carrying too much stuff. 60 points of strength is worth a lot of *gasp* The Force Unknown! He gave me a knife to kill a guy named With a filled black soul gem and just tallow candles from the Mystic Emporium and set up our enchanting But we wouldn't have the money to afford Nor would we have a weapon to enchant. Or the spell I want to put on the weapon. We don't have anything. For more money, maybe we should fall back We collect crops from the farm outside potions, and sell them for... A pittance. Hmm. That was like 25 alchemy levels worth of And all we got was a few dozen gold. This is going to make the scaling a Well, mistakes have been made. Time to live with them. We buy a steel dagger from a fighting Aurelinwae, and buy weakness to magicka I need 50 destruction to cast it. And you can't enchant an item with an Eh. Okay. Let's steal more stuff. Expensive stuff. Unique stuff. In Anvil, we break into and under the cover of being we covertly steal the A steel helmet with a lesser resist magick I really regret making those stupid I would have reloaded to a save before I comes to saving, and I would have lost a So, again, we're living with the mistakes. Also in Anvil, from Lelle's there's a pair of the Boots the floor in the upstairs They give shock resistances because Electric eels, however, are not eels. They're knifefish. More closely related to catfish. There's a whole family of electric catfish, It's only the eel. Hold on, wait, what am I reading here? Electric eels are obligate air breathers. What? Why is that never brought up? That's more interesting than the electric It's a fish that has to breathe air. Not can, but has to. Neat. There's still more loot to be stolen, leader of Cheydinhal's Fighter's Guild. Waiting until he's asleep improves our Cuirass, Greaves, and Shield. And his 21 gold. I didn't save scum, I swear. The Greaves of the Cat gives 6 points of and we'll sell everything else to Ognar, Not as much as I expected, but it's way With the extra gold, we go to Skingrad, and take a nap. Level 6. Level 7. Level 8. That's gonna bite me in the ass. Now we buy the Mage Tallow Candles and set We can't put Drain Health on the dagger. We need 25 Destruction. 5 more levels. Well, one way to train Destruction is with but that requires spellmaking, Or we could just join the Mage's Guild, Actually, we could train Destruction on I guess I'll pick up the since we're going to Fighting the zombies like this, then running out of the cave and resting unfair, but Oblivion's zombies are dumb, Who'd have guessed training a major skill from Finally, we can use this Black Soul Gem. On the dagger we bought from Rhossan, Strike Enchantment, but it only lasts one Drain Health doesn't actually damage the It simply reduces their health by the spell Once the effect wears off, the target However, if the target of the spell has effect brings their health to zero, So this dagger will one-shot any enemy not accounting for resistances. If we had 50 destruction, we could get real The way spell effects stack and build upon I can't show that off yet, but be patient. You'll see. I know the gods are mad at us because of can carry on with the quest for the relics We could at least try to fight the ghosts. I want to test out the dagger. Awesome. *Chuckling* Who else wants a piece? This game's easy. Sit, kid. Our reward for the super easy task of the Cuirass of the Crusader, an fortifies restoration by 3 points and It also gives us a 15% normal weapons Not bad. But we can't wear it unless we supplicate But before we leave, we'll talk to the They'll grant us insight on the locations Sir Casimir wore the Gauntlets of the but the war changed him, and One day, he struck a beggar who had been the God of Mercy's very own chapel. He may not have intended it, but Stendarr Sir Casimir was cursed with weakness, his hands, becoming they may still be in Sir Ralvas tells us that is below the chapel of To claim the Mace, we must pray to the In this vision, we'll see the Mace before on the Faith in the Nine to guide us Sir Henrik, after finding the shield of and began working to ensure the shield But he died before the work was finished. He wasn't alone in his mission, the shield should be well guarded, Sir &quot;Yun-Kin,&quot; or perhaps it's &quot;Junk-in&quot; I wasn't has little to say about should travel west of the Imperial City of the Great Forest. The priests there should be able to help We've got quite the laundry list, First things first, that pilgrimage. Visit all nine shrines. Again. Sorted. Let's get to work on the relics. Boots first, and not because only to realize you need West of the Imperial City, and the priestess, Avita Vesnia, we gotta prove ourselves worthy. I can't believe it. What's the test? Even the priestess doesn't know. All she can do is point us to the Grove of What a mysterious name, what could Imagine a group of bandits setting up shop powerful relic, handing out tests of worth only to sick a A trained bear, of course, so that way the bandits can come in and gather the of do-gooders. I guess it all comes down to how many and how much you could profit from getting Well, here's the Grove, what's the trial? Oh, dammit, my suspicions have been They weren't priests at all. What a calm bear. Uh-oh. Dagger's not enough, um, I, I just need... Yeah, the secret is to run away from the That's the test. Once we've evaded death long enough-- a cosmic force updates our quest journal, letting us know the boots Sure enough, here they are. The boots fortify restoration by three Eh, I got nothing else, so I'll wear them. With the boots, we can return to Leyawiin, and pray at the altar to St. Kaladas. Don't mind the ghosts, they just live Because we have the boots of the Crusader, has an ethereal bridge running across it, leading It does fire damage and turns undead up to It's also really heavy. In celebration of our success, we'll drink some skooma so Oh, the chapel's under attack by pointy Aurorans. You never know what you're gonna get with The aurorans have more than 100 health, but there is a bunch of priests in this They're drawing aggro. They're dying so I They're doing a bit of damage, enough so I can go in with I've got a sinking feeling that this isn't Another NPC voiced by Wes Johnson. This time, it's this lady's left shoulder. With another sip of skooma, we fast travel mace off in their lobby. Hopefully it stays put. I don't know if I'll need it later, I'm going to leave it anywhere. The shield is probably going to be tricky, Gauntlets are up next. In the chapel of Stendarr--Stondar-- about the gauntlets, and he confirms that Completely immovable. As Sir, um... As Sir Casimir said. Areldur has us speak with Kellen, and he, Kellen, also suffers from That's fair...Casimir kills a beggar and -grandchildren are weak and constantly Stendarr, God of Justice. Kellen suspects there's something Areldur Areldur knows the curse can be lifted from if someone else takes it onto themselves. Areldur can't do it because he's too weak I think we can do it. Praying at the shrine gives us the Lay relieving him of his curse and placing it What... you may be wondering, is this horrible Damage fatigue, 5 points per second. The terror. With the curse lifted, we can pick the I'm not sure why the gauntlets being heavy perpetually weak and feeble. Those seem unrelated. Why does Kellen's low stamina mean no one I don't get it. Doesn't matter though, because we got They fortify our restoration, as all the disease enchantment. I'm not gonna wear them, because the bands just better all around. And they're lighter. The final relic the ghosts told us about Fort Bulwark, all the way in the Sir Henrik built this of protecting the and if his men were successful, then we might It seems we're not the only ones Thankfully, these conjurers are nerds, Oh, but the fire atronachs inside are a Punching them isn't gonna work. Flare certainly won't work, but I thought multiple damage types. For the enemies with I've taken to beating them down with my or at least what looks like half health, and then slashing them I want to avoid wasted swings simply charges on the weapon. The less often we have to recharge the know the enemy has, the more comfortable I because I know Oh wow, what robust defenses. Poison dart walls. Well, I guess it worked. Oh ho ho ho, I shall use the environment Where do you think you're going? Yuh. Conjurer Adept. He summons a Dremora. Let's just lure you into the darts. Pathetic. And what's this staff he's got? Burden? Ugh. At least his elven dagger might come in Ah, a turnable handle. No less alluring than a pushable button. What did it do? The fun is in finding out. I expected that bridge to be lowered. Hmm. Ah, a second turnable handle. No less alluring than a second pushable What did it secondly do? The second fun is in second finding out. Raise the gate. And lower the bridges. Cool. Trial and error pressure switches. If the makers of this fort were smart, they'd have made the wrong path drop you And perhaps put the fort underground. In some sort of pass. Some underground pass. Ah, a third turnable handle. No less alluring than-- Poison ceiling Clever clever, Sir Henrik. Clever clever. This must be the final room. Seems final roomy, y'know. Another conjurer adept. So I'm guessing she's kind of the final But we've got another advantage of, so this First try. She dropped her enchanted pants that we They aren't that heavy, so we might as With all the enemies dead, we've now got a I'm not sure what hints I should be foll--Oh! Damn skooma. Makes my legs all jelly. First of all, let's take a nap. All this conjurer fighting and we could use a The puzzle here is no real mystery. Turn the levers and make all the statues These are the kind of puzzles I always to be more complicated than just, Something I really enjoyed about Tears of but trying to figure out the intended way You could brute force a lot of them, I enjoyed looking around to glean what the What did they leave me here that I'm And then you just end up launching a Korok The next puzzle is a bit more tricky. You loot the item from the stone chest in the ethereal item hovering over one of the Take the item you looted, and place it in If you placed it in the correct chest, will appear in the central chest. If incorrect, the item you placed will will appear in the center of the room. Or the same item, it's random. I think. Do this over and over again until each It's a memory game. The ethereal item that shows up above the so just remember what and place the Since you don't need to place all 8 items you could solve this in... what, 36 guesses? 8 plus 7 plus 6, so on and so forth. Not very secure. Definitely solvable in polynomial time, The Shield of the Crusader. A heavy shield with a 12% spell reflect This was the fourth and final relic the but there are still two more out there Perhaps there have been some developments so let's return to the Priory and see It seems words spread rather fast, Lathan: &quot;I have terrible news.&quot; &quot;Sir Roderick...&quot; &quot;I think he's dead.&quot; Sir Roderick is dead? Not Sir Roderick! Who is Sir Roderick? He was some knight questing for the while searching for the Greaves and the Sir Beric was also a questing knight who but was somehow turned to... evil. It was the wraith of Lord Vlindrel, Lathan here was Sir Roderick's squire, the Greaves, which he hands over to us. The sword, however, is still in the hands Sounds like we got a ghost to kill. The Greaves fortify restoration and But they're too heavy, so I'll leave them of the Crusader equipment I don't want. Sir Lathan--we knighted him by the way-- wants to come with us And who am I to deny him this honor? A bear killed him. Inside Underpall Cave is an abandoned bunch of damn skeletons. All of which... all of whom? Eh... They all got more than 100 health, then use our dagger for the final blow. Being level 10, the health scaling on most weak as they are... oh my god. Oh great, zombies. This here is the tomb of Lord Vlindrel, Oh, and Sir Roderick is here too. He's doing his Sir Lathan impression. It's pretty good. Mage Fighters Greaves. Hmm. 14 points of spell absorption. Bit heavy though. Skooma time. I assume that's the wraith with the sword, on account of it being a But we still got some zombies tailing us. I wonder if they can swim. Evidently, I can't swim either. Coming down from the skooma high is I can't keep relying on skooma. I have to lighten the load. Sorry Spell Absorption Pants, you're too Ooh, can I get the zombie to fall in? What? Maybe I can edge him. I mean, get him to the him from the safety *stammering* You can't cast magic when you're in the the land just right, we might be able to Waiting for magic to regenerate ain't That should do it. Excellent. Now for the wraith. The wraith has 18 times 1 plus your level that means it has 198 points of health. We'll need to whittle it down to about And that's all she wrote. We've got the sword of the crusader, cleansed at the chapel of Arkay in Cheydinhal. Yep, Aurorans. Thankfully they follow us leave the chapel and get They're surprisingly effective. I'm sure Arkay tried his but he's preoccupied with That's the eighth and final crusader The sword of the crusader does 8 points of magicka by 25 points, both on strike. Not bad. I'd probably use it if it weren't so damn There's one more Auroran. We'll let the guards handle it. I should give him these relics, Returning to the Priory of the Nine, we He tells us we've become the embodiment of Elves beware! Khajiit better check But even though Pelinal defeated Umaril, What hope could we possibly have? We're not a robot from the future past. Well, we have a secret weapon on our side. Whereas Pelinal had the eight, We have Talos. The god of fucking up The prophet grants us the blessing of Talos, He could just do that, he just has that *gasp* Is the prophet an avatar of Talos? Is he the Shezzarine? Oh no, that's Lorkhan. But Talos is sort of Lorkhan. Then there's also Wulf that you and he might be Talos. Whatever. Umaril's gonna have a lot of health, We need 50 destruction. We need a spellmaker. Let's just join the mage's guild. Rescue Erthor. Kill the rogue mage. Finger the mountain. Deal with these Bruma prick wizards. Vidkun's dead. Kill Kalthar. Get Ardaline's staff back. Join the arcane university. I should have done this from the start. God damn it. Though to be fair, the enchanted dagger We'll use the spellmaker to create a weak up destruction without needing to attack Fire damage, three points for one second After casting the spell over and over now use the weakness to magic spell at the I have a greater soul and a grand soul Not ideal, but we shouldn't need that many Here's a quirk about weakness to magic. It stacks. Kind of. By placing it on a dagger for two seconds, before the debuff wears off. Weakness to magic makes subsequent so the second attack will incur a 200% It's less that it stacks, and it's more that the They don't pull the ladder up behind them. The higher the magic weakness, the By attacking several times in quick drain health effect into a several hundred Umaril has about 300 health, so this There is a reason the weakness effect I'm not sure I understand it, but it's just I'm not sure how important this will be, of the Crusader's armor, we'll radiate an luck, and strength by 60 points each, He's also weak to fire if it comes from the Holy Dagger of Draining, so who cares. Our target is in the Ayleid ruin of Garlas Cyrodiil, not far from Anvil. The Knights of the Nine are waiting there Don't worry fellas, I'll catch up. These ruins are full of aurorans, but They're all dead. Oh no, there's still one alive. The goal isn't to kill all the aurorans The goal is to get to that I'm shocked there isn't a button hidden on push to reveal a staircase leading up to I don't like Ayleid ruins. With the orb shattered, the mystical further access into the ruins. Behind this door, we will face Umaril the Damn, this dagger's amazing. Why didn't I get 50 destruction sooner? God, I'm an idiot. Put Soul Trap on this you'll be Oh my god, is Umaril Wes Johnson too? Oh. Huh. Well, this isn't the end. Umaril's not truly dead. We must now cast the Blessing of Talos. Again with this shit? Oh, we're high up. Stop staggering, dammit! There's my opening. Now's my chance. And so Tamriel was once again chained No, we'll try again. Why was it so easy that time? And Umaril ascends into infinity. That means he's dead, I guess. Oh no, I'm falling! Save me, Dagon! Ah, that worked. And there you have it. Oblivion with everything starting at level Pretty brutal. Should have gone the Mages Guild route doing all that gold Would have made this way easier.