- General Motors is and it's not a car, it's an office. Located in Warren Michigan, GM's iconic Tech Center opened in 1956. Now, as part of a nearly GM is adding on. Here, over 1,000 workers, sculpt and use VR to imagine car interiors. This is like a speed racer With models all around the office, it was the perfect opportunity Is this a real car? Is that a real car? It looks real. - It doesn't feel real. - [Narrator] The original campus was designed by Architect Eero Saarinen, and it changed how GM designed its cars. - It's a Willy Wonka - [Narrator] We took a tour to learn how GM designed so that its designers could (light music) GM's 710-acre Technical Campus is home to a lot of from battery research, to automotive engineering, to car design. And the last one takes place Saarinen's Design Center, the Design Dome, and the new building, Design West. Inside, the 360,000 square foot building brings together digital - This new building is all built around the way we work today. It's computer-based or virtual, but we still celebrate the need for a claim because in the end, our customers, they buy a physical property. - This ethos has been central to GM's process going back decades, which is why the look borrows heavily from its predecessor, GM's Original Design Center. I feel like I've just - [Michael McBride] Yeah, - The Saarinen Building filled with mahogany, secret You know, they don't like they used to. - [Narrator] And, of - We're in the original in our Advanced Design Studio. - [Narrator] This space has it's key feature, light, a grid of five-by-five foot and a line of windows flood the space with daylight. - So right now, you can you've got designers desks, you know, back in the 1950s, you wanted a lot of natural light for the designers to be able to sketch on their physical, you know, paper. - [Narrator] But when that layout became a problem. - We had designers that would their own ways to block the daylight from coming to their computer screens, so you would walk in here and you would see different trying to block their computer screens. - And as more tech was brought into the old So Design West became the solution. You're placing a building How do you figure out what and how much space that - We wanted to sort of make sure that the building had its own identity, and I think the outward-facing facades are a little bit more expressive, but then as it sort of turns to the Dome, it's sort of more reflective - To tie the new and old spaces together, GM recreated features, hexagonal ceiling tiles, At Design West Core is a massive open studio space. The windows here are bigger and the light grid, while has been updated to allow more control over things like brightness These are set to 5,000 degrees This vehicle, that vehicle, that vehicle, the small model, the vehicle on the end, they're all silver, why? So look up, and you can see the stripes that are reflected in the Silver's a good medium to see a surface. If it's a flat surface, they'll go across cleanly and As the surface changes, then so these lines will open out. - [Narrator] And so their to build little foam caves, all of the digital design work was pushed back under the mezzanine, with black ceilings to absorb light. - [Michael Simcoe] But as they're looking outside, they're looking through the studio, so they're seeing the of the products that - [Narrator] Saarinen's Design into its own studio, but in Design West, the - The old studios are smaller and so a Chevrolet and a GMC work in two different studios, they may share an architecture, but you could be solving the same problem while creating the same problem twice. - Mm, now those designers could see each other working. - [Narrator] While GM says it's committed to clay modeling for now, this space is meant to adapt to any changes in the way cars - The process can change, the process will go away like but the built environment, and the reflection, and the I'm hoping that lasts. - [Narrator] One Saarinen's Design Dome. - What I love about the Dome is I feel like it looks a that's about to just like and leave us. - Spaceship full of - Full of cars. (both laugh) - [Michael Simcoe] This where the good and the bad - The Dome was designed, in part, to act as an artificial sun. Just so I understand it, the lower ring here, the darkness is to sort of prevent any additional reflection and then the Dome itself - Is the sky. But GM spotlights the cars - [Michael Simcoe] You with this engineered lighting environment to make the vehicle look its best. - Hm, showing it off. - [Narrator] With the the Dome now connects the new and the old. - It's really the heart and soul, it's at the center of the whole complex. - [Narrator] Since Saarinen's time, the playing field for car manufacturers has changed dramatically. In 1956, GM had the largest accounting for 42% of new car sales. In 2023, GM was still on top in the US, but with a share of about The car industry is competitive and incredibly fast-paced. Is this building meant to speed up the design process in any way, and get more of those ideas out quicker? - Absolutely, we believe the and created here will help - And how important is moving quickly as you think about the future and the transition to electric vehicles? - I mean, it's super important. I mean, it's a race to see The industry's very competitive, and we need to be fast. - The Office is gonna - Absolutely. - [Narrator] When GM's Campus first opened all those years ago, it had a sign near the entrance that said, &quot;Where Today Meets Tomorrow.&quot; The sign is gone now, but the message lives on. (rhythmic music)