- [Narrator] This is Moutai. It's 53% alcohol, tastes like fire water, and a bottle can cost tens - Moutai is the national liquor of China, so it's many people's go-to drink. - [Narrator] As Moutai's popularity grows, so has its share price. In June 2020, its surpassed climbing to reach a valuation Today, Moutai is the world's by market value. The company is now worth $295 billion. That's more than double the that owns Budweiser and more than 10 times the But there are challenges ahead, particularly among Chinese and international consumers So, what's next for China's This is the economics of Moutai. (lighthearted music) Before we get into the details, - It'll be consumed in these tiny little five or six mil baijiu glasses. And the reason why it's so small is because it is much stronger and also because it's you can kind of sip your way over the course of a long banquet with many different dishes. (group speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] Moutai is rooted earning a reputation as During the Chinese Civil War in the 1930s, communist soldiers on the run made a stop at a village where Moutai is made, and reportedly used the liquor after trekking thousands of miles. The story helps cement Moutai's status as the drink of choice among including Premier Zhou Enlai, who toasted President Nixon with Moutai during his historic Two years later, Secretary met Zhou and said, &quot;If we can solve anything.&quot; - Because of the fact that it's been in so so the brand awareness of which also explains why My friends would bring Moutai to weddings. If there's a political banquet, then there will be Moutai served. - Last chance 22,000. 45,000. 48,000. (gavel tapping) - [Narrator] Moutai is popular among the rich and elite in China. - Thank you. Sotheby's hosted its first - It has become a more prominent category that demands its own category, which is not an easy feat, I think. - [Narrator] Paul Wong has for more than a decade. - So, 80% of our consumers and 20% maybe they buy it, you know, for, you know, saving up. It's a safe buy even if because prominent brands like Moutai will be ahead of the curve. - [Narrator] Moutai is for collectors, but also for investors. The liquor firm has long been considered as one of China's bellwether stocks. - Moutai is basically the meaning that any fluctuations could affect the entire It's sort of not in or in the investor's to let Moutai share price - [Narrator] Moutai shares amid Chinese President Xi and COVID restrictions. But the stock has proved more resilient than the broader Chinese stock market, shown here by the - What makes Moutai despite these fluctuations is that the demand remains pretty stable even during COVID years. Moutai's revenue increased, so that kind of speaks to - [Narrator] Consistent high demand and constrained supply is how The cheapest bottle on the but vintage ones like can go for almost $40,000. And this lot from the and was sold for 1.4 million. Scarcity is what keeps Moutai expensive. Much like champagne and bourbon from the US, the liquor can only be made - So the supply isn't that high usually. A typical bottle of Moutai takes at least five years to make. It needs to use a specific type of grain, which is a red color sorghum, and then it needs to and aged three years. So for any drop of Moutai to go from production to the - [Narrator] This seven-story statue resembling a Moutai bottle symbolizes the company's which owns Moutai. - The GDP per capita of Moutai village is about 310,000 US dollars, and that's more than four of the entire US. - [Narrator] Making sure the is one of Moutai's biggest challenges. - A brand, it's like a living entity that always needs to be replenished. (commercial spoken in foreign language) - [Narrator] Moutai's consumer by older and wealthier Chinese who appreciate the brand's and could afford to serve (commercial spoken in foreign language) So the company launched (commercial spoken in foreign language) to target younger Chinese. Over the past two years, Moutai collaborated with newer brands, including different flavors and Moutai-infused lattes, which went viral on Chinese social media when it launched last September. That same month, the company unveiled a to release liquor-filled chocolate. Priced between $5 to $10, all of them sold out quickly, though they only accounted of Moutai's overall revenue, and not everyone who bought - (speaking in foreign language) - [Narrator] And if they don't like it, they probably won't be willing to splurge $350 on a bottle. - Because the economy so people tend to downgrade Previously, they might, you know, buy luxury bottle of Moutai. Now they're fine with just beer. - [Narrator] Another it's not well known outside of China. That's why the company is trying to promote the brand overseas and expand its consumer base globally. Moutai says it's now available - [Presenter] We shared with the world. - [Narrator] But the brand remains obscure in global markets. - I think most people who are still Chinese. I remember in one of the stories, one of the interviewees said You know, it tastes like ethanol.&quot; - [Narrator] If Moutai it needs to be less reliant - Looking ahead, if Moutai that's fine, but if it wants it needs to look to the younger generation and the global audience. - [Narrator] Moutai may before it becomes a global household name, but its dominance in the Its annual net profit in 2023 rising 19% to $10.3 billion. - Moutai is a very big brand. It's almost immune to many things that are happening in the It is the most valuable and the biggest in the world and will probably continue to be. (gentle music)