Hi everyone. I'm Ara Oghoorian with ACap Advisors the ACap ReCap, where we go behind the blog and Today we're going to talk about AB 150 (California it's California's response to the SALT limitation that was a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 150. But in the meantime, please remember and if there's a subject matter, that you in the comments below, or send us an email, and So, what is AB 150? AB 150 is a response limited what is known as the SALT deduction Prior to 2018, before the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, high income tax states, were able to for their state local income taxes and their states, they paid so much on property that deduction on their tax return was relatively they severely cut that limit to $10,000 per New York and other high tax states started looking that SALT limitation. AB 150 is California's Now I want to point out that AB 150 has a lot of the only area that addresses the SALT limitation of AB 150 are an extension of sales tax exemption part of AB 150 is a tax credit on donations there's a small business hiring credit that's been Competes Credit. But today's presentation is only that directly addresses the SALT limitation from talk about what is the Small Business Relief Act? 150, and it impacts the majority of California owners. So, under this Act pass-through entity or pay an elective 9.3% tax on their net income, tax return for that tax, that they paid. Now, what on the federal level, that ultimately passes and then when they file their California for that that payment they made. Now the payment we'll talk about later on, but it's important to they're able to get it back through a credit that this provision of AB 150 the Small Business Jobs Act is repealed: so if in two years Congress then obviously this 9.3% elected tax will also is which entities qualify for this Small Business to be a pass-through entity. So, the most a 1065 or an S corporation, and owners of these trusts, estates and corporations. Now let's talk Business Relief Act of AB 150: corporations, such or an entity, that has a partnership as an owner. partnership, and one of the owners or members is qualifying for the AB 150 elective tax. who file Schedule C are not eligible. So, if you incorporating as a S corporation to qualify for to see, if that makes sense for you, but as it but to qualify you have to be a pass-through everybody's mind is, how do you actually calculate We're going to have a very detailed example on to our website and to our blog, we'll have a very works. But for right now, we're going to do a very Assume we have a S corporation, a single member to pay 1.5% tax on their net profit. Now, if it would be in addition to that 1.5% tax they S corporation, single member or a sole owner has pay the 1.5% tax in California, that comes out to do the 9.3% tax, which will qualify for the of taxes they'd have to pay. Now all that and then on their California tax return credit for that $32,000 approximately, If their tax liability is less than the credit any difference would be carried forward up to they're going to get is $32,000 using the example that additional $2,000 of credit they have can the example, that we have on our website, it will show side-by-side comparison of an entity, that and then an entity that is not claiming the the owed, the next step is identifying when the actual filing deadline. Let's assume, that you are a with the same example we had earlier at that year tax filer, then the tax would be due on March has to file their tax return and also for federal going to be made in two different installments: and it has to be the greater of 50% of the tax tax filing deadline without extensions. Now that's law is written AB 150, it does not allow you to claim this elective tax and the credit. What are Business Relief Act? Well, not all shareholders that means that if you have a partnership with 100 then the other 80 do not want to elect, that is Also each shareholder and a partner has to it one year and decide the following year they be made every year. Also the election has to not including election not including extensions. decide after the extension date of March 15, claim the exemption or the the tax credit. it's irrevocable for the year. So once you make you don't want to pay the tax until the of the downsides of AB 150. Unfortunately it earners in California. So, if you're a W-2 wage unfortunately you're not able to benefit from pass-through entities. So, as I mentioned publicly traded partnerships also do not qualify. are disregarded entities also do not qualify. So, people in California, who are single member LLCs. would not be eligible for this election, because So for those individuals they may want to consider mind is that through this 9.3% elected tax it deduction. If you don't know what that is, please the qualified business income deduction. part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and by taking the qualified business income deduction. So, keep another thing, that I think is going to get offset the California minimum tentative tax: what election of 9.3% elected tax and then you pay the but your California minimum tentative not the 30,000. Again, I think this is going to the California tentative minimum tax has not been for another edition of the ACap ReCap! I hope you and comment below. If there's a subject, that to the comment below, or send us a message, and