And that's why breast cancer, for example, if you have hyperinsulinemia, you're just cancer cells more than you're feeding the So therefore, you're going to favor growth And therefore, diseases of hyperinsulinemia known to be associated with breast cancer. Welcome to Target Cancer podcast. My name is Dr. Sanjay Juneja. I'm a hematologist, a medical oncologist, And on Target Cancer we're basically talking of regular, chemotherapy and immune therapy, that's why I'm super excited as somebody who if it was technically the right intermittent We have Dr. Jason Fung, who is a nephrologist Where, and when it comes to glucose regulation, our fats bad, are they not? People say you end up eating a lot of fat Is that a good thing? So Jason if we may I would love to get into Sure. Great. Great to be here. Thanks, Sanjay. Yeah. So one of the things that a lot of people to get right into it Is it the traditional intermittent fasting. When you go that, 24, 36 hours or does it where you're not eating or, versus two to fasting? I know they are in semantics, but are they trying to achieve? If it relates to decreasing your cancer risk They both can work. You don't have to do the longer fast if you It's a very complicated issue. It's not so simple as, oh, you can fast and You can reduce it, but it's in relatively That was what I talked about in The Cancer thought it was just, you fast and then you're But it turns out that it's a lot more complicated And that's one of the things that I delved Because what I thought was very interesting simple metabolic disease but incorporated of how cancer developed, like what is cancer? How they've changed in the last 10, 12 years. I think that's been a really fascinating journey. So fasting can affect one aspect of it. But doesn't affect all the aspects of it. There's other things. The, from metabolic standpoint, of course not just about low carb because there's certain growth factors. So you have insulin, which is great for low of them are also growth factors. As well as nutrient sensors and fasting effects, It's an interesting, it's an interesting discussion But yeah, any of those can work. You can do shorter fast, you can do longer But it's, that's, it's a combination of hyperinsulinemia, risk factor for a lot of diseases. If you look at things like obesity, the risk wasn't really well appreciated until 20... in the nineties, and it wasn't until there published in 2001 that showed that, hey, it's Now you have 14 different cancers, which are therefore fasting. If it helps with that, presumably it's also And these include some of the most important for example, pancreatic cancer. Right. And so the obesity, cuz people ask like, why, And some, say it's the adipose or fat tissue of an inflammatory and less of an immune, can cause it. You said hyperinsulinemia, so is the fact glucose in your blood? Month to month, year to year, is it that itself in cancer? Is it the fact that your insulin is higher really it's just the fact that your glucose Or is it the actual like fact that you need That's also, in addition to the fact that also a risk of factor for cancer and how. Yeah, I, we'd have to back up a little bit. Two, two things like, I think, so in terms long an answer and it's a different question resistance versus hyperinsulinemia, which Insulin resistance is a very nebulous term, Because the whole idea is that your blood is what we've been taught, and it's all wrong. The, we're taught that, hey, something causes in the blood can't get into the cell. Therefore, your body has to produce more insulin Okay, so that's, insulin resistance. And that's the whole wrong way to look at It's it's not helpful because if you think the question, so you say, okay, what causes What causes the insulin resistance? And there you have no answers. It's so some people, for example, say, oh, or it's due to this. Due to that. After 50 years of know knowing all about insulin for what is it? And the other thing is that if the solution done for so many years, right? We said you need more insulin to overcome better. So does it make you better? Absolutely not. Because if you think about a type two diabetic, They gain weight. They gain fat. And what happens when you gain fat? Your diabetes gets worse, so you're giving They get fatter, their diabetes gets worse. You give them more insulin. That's the whole. You're just making things worse. You're literally just throwing kerosene in Exactly. So if you think... it was the most polite way of just saying just very kindly saying exactly what that way you said it somehow is just that makes And that was wizardry. So yeah. Please continue. So you're right. Yeah, absolutely. So... that's the complete problem. Yeah and I go in depth in the diabetes code, problem is insulin resistance. And then you ask the question, what is causing We're like, I don't know, after 50 years, It's getting worse, like the epidemic's getting So there's two ways to look at it. So you either have an underfill problem or Okay? So think about the cell, the liver cell. If you have something that's blocking the gonna happen is that you're gonna get internal Because glucose can't go in. So therefore, what would happen? You should lose weight. People should be skinny. They should have very small livers, shrunken So you give insulin and everything gets better. So absolutely that's type one Diabetes. That's nothing what type two diabetics look They have huge amounts of obesity. They have huge fatty livers, and their blood So why can't this glucose go into the cell? So there's two possibilities here, right? It's either an underfill situation, so you're If you're not getting the glucose into the Why would weight loss help in any way with It shouldn't. Wow. It's gonna make no difference at all. So the other way to look at it is maybe this So maybe what's happened is that your insulin You've been shoving all this glucose into full of glucose. Therefore, what you would predict from this is that you have too much glucose inside the It's overflowing you. Now you have a big fatty liver. Check. That's what you get in type two diabetes. With this big fatty liver it's going to try to pump out all this fat and you're gonna Check. That's exactly what you get. The reason the glucose cannot go into the glucose receptor, but there's so much glucose You don't have a concentration gradient to It's just if you have a suitcase, you know in, no problem. No problem with problem. Now it's full. Now you can't put clothes in. Why can't you put clothes in? What's the luggage resistance? Why is there resistance to this luggage from It's full. That's the whole problem. So the solution is not to give more insulin bloated cell. Oh my God. You are going to mark it worse. ...barberic, when you say that, you're literally How does it make sense at all? Like this entire underfill hypothesis, this diabetes is completely doesn't jive with what what we're taught. Instead, if you think of it an overflow problem, Get rid of all that glucose. Glucose, like getting into ketosis. Ketosis, intermittent fasting, losing weight. You can do it anyway. You can do it low fat diets if you want, but off all that glucose, that is you lose weight. What happens? Your diabetes goes away. You're emptying that cell just like you empty So the point is that giving insulin is the making the blood sugars better, but you're Just if you have all this clothes lying around, keep shoving it, you keep shoving it, you It's better because you have less clothes But the problem, which is that suitcase is Which is exactly the what so after years, at Tight A1C's, right? Give lots of insulin, get your A1C down to Did it, they busted Cause any benefits. No, absolutely not. Because you didn't actually make the diabetes You made the blood glucose better, right? That's the symptom. Oh my gosh. So the whole point is that if you think about So the whole issue is that you don't need You actually need less insulin. Therefore, if you look at how you reverse more insulin. You need to lower insulin because insulin You need to lower insulin levels, right? The primary problem is not insulin resistance. The primary problem is hyperinsulinemia. And if you think about it that way, that's So the, to get back to cancer, so the insulin they're all problems, not of insulin resistant So to get back to the problem of how that because, and so you have to understand that certain nutrient sensors. So understand that insulin is not originally in primitive cells, insulin is not used for Insulin is a growth factor. As we evolved. What we did is you need to tightly link growth That is if you have no food coming in, your So you look at children who are malnourished, They're very small. Then you get well nourished and they grow Because your body uses the same molecule for When you eat, insulin goes up, you tell your That insulin is the exact same molecule that you need to grow while there's food available. And that's why insulin and insulin like growth It's they're both linked to insulin and they're They're not just hormones of nutrition, but So you have a situation where if you were and this Walter Longo showed this in the They're I don't know if you've heard of them. Fascinating sort of story. So there's this rare, group of people in Ecuador IGF-1, so insulin-like growth factor, but don't work. So essentially they're essentially very low don't have that growth factor. The interesting part is that they're virtually They don't get cancer because the growth hormone Again, you have to understand that cancer And I'll get into this in a second, which really fascinating factoring problem. So cancer is really you have to think of it Basically the cancer cell has derived from But it's become autonomous, right? So if you have breast cancer, it's that breast tissue, same as the colorectal cancer. It's derived from a normal colon cell, but re responds to growth factors. So if you are worried about cells growing which includes insulin. Insulin is a growth factor. So you look up breast cancer, which is one cancer cells have six times the number of So you'd say, why does the breast cancer cell It runs on glucose. So you need lots of insulin receptors so you soon as you get a little insulin, it opens Let's glucose flood into the cancer cells. In fact, if you grow cancer cells, and this grow breast cancer cells and don't put insulin They can't get the nutrients that they need. They can't get the glucose into that cell. Those cancer cells are highly dependent on And this gets back to how cancer energy metabolism which is probably what Tom was talking about, Again, that's why breast cancer, for example, very sensitive to insulin, right? Because you have so many insulin receptors you're just gonna be feeding that growth, You're just gonna be feeding that growth of the growth of the normal cell. So therefore you're going to favor growth And therefore, diseases of hyperinsulinemia, known to be associated with breast cancer. So again, if you think about it mechanistically If you want to lower your risk, you want to We pardon this interruption real quick. If you're enjoying this podcast or find it and how people see and think about cancer a subscribe, and especially a share, so we broadly as possible. Thank you so much for listening. One thing that I always used to say was, why What's your biggest risk factor by far is mutational error that goes undetected over But this is a whole nother component, like over 65 or 70, it's like one in four chance next coming years. That's over 70 versus over 35 is part of that Because of the amount of growth factor and which then permits, especially hormone positive patients as opposed to triple negative. Is it that fact that they're constantly having factor, constantly, more invitations over then go rogue. That fits. That's a, you can see how that gets kinda And you see the same thing with mTOR, for those cells. You see it if you look at rates of cancer people, Africans, for example there's a very his name? He's Denis Burkitt. He is a missionary in Africa. What was very interesting is that when they whites were getting colorectal cancer, same it was from. But the natives did not. So the people in Africa, the Africans in Africa the sort of white man's diet, for example. They all got colorectal cancer. And then what was the difference? He said it was fiber. Turns out fiber doesn't have much to do with refined diet than the sugar that they were So remember, of course, the Africans were any colorectal cancer. When you take that same African, introduced time, of course, highly refined flour. Lots of sugar, like 10, 50 times the amount all of a sudden cancer all over the place. You saw the same thing in Alaska where you and seals and all this sort of stuff. Traditional stuff. No cancers other than they, they got nasopharyngeal But they didn't get breast cancer, colorectal a diet that is high in refined grains, so All of a sudden you get rates of cancer that So you, there's a very interesting period people had actually sent, so Queens University every year to the Arctic to see why these They didn't get cancer. Of course they stopped that study cause they changed. So you have to understand that it's not really which is much, much more important. Not to say that genetics isn't important, Yeah. But we say it all the time here. Yeah. It's literally what's happening in the cellular Yeah. Far more than what your tendency for cancer If it, if you had a true genetic tendency, it was running. So then, there's modifiable, factors. Yeah. Obviously 85, 90% of which is somatic, is And in your lifetime, this is so fascinating. Yeah. So again, just to distill it down, I'm sorry hearing you correctly that it's really the, we really need to think more or equally, I really the insulin that's being sent to regulate that says Grow, grow, which is what cancer Unregulated cell growth. Yeah. So that's what you're saying. It's more of an issue of like you're inflaming, zoo or whatever. Cause it will get mad. That's what we're doing when we're letting Exactly. It's basically you're encouraging growth by are. Nutrient sensors, right? Nutrient sensors are growth factors. So if you increase nutrient factors, then And of course, cancer is a disease where anything it. But it gets back to what I actually think cancer develops. And that was what I talked about, which is You have to think about it. As cancer developed, there's three great paradigms question, what is cancer? Most people you know have they're like, I It's like you have this very strange disease, but everybody has the wrong idea in that they when it's mostly about the environment. So we went through sort of three phases of sort of third stage, but most people still So the first stage of understanding was that right? That's the first great paradigm of cancer. So it's basically a cell that grows too much, So you, we came, because that's the paradigm. You say, what's the treatment then? So the treatments are. If you have cells that grow, let's kill them. So now you have surgery, which is, you can burn 'em out, or you can give chemotherapy, And those were very successful. So those were developed through the thirties, You've had, surgery's been around long time, hundreds, and then chemotherapy after World And then in the fifties and sixties you started of chemotherapy and that was very successful, limits of that paradigm. That is cancer is a cell that grows. How do you kill cells faster than regular That's one way, but you reach the limits of So then through the seventies, he started So this is a cell that grows. So now you get to the next understanding of. Why are these cells growing? And that gets you to the genetic paradigm, sort of 2.0, the big of next evolution of So we think about cancer as why are they growing? They're growing because the genes are mutated. So you have onco genes and you have tumor onco genes, you get excessive growth. So therefore, you get into the next great paradigm. Now you start to develop treatments like Imatinib all of a sudden you're not trying to kill It's a totally different paradigm because revolutionary, right? Totally revolutionary, revolutionized the Of CML. The whole point is that you're not giving You're giving a treatment that's directed And inhibiting it's like mechanism of growth Exactly. Same with HER2 new is great. Like fantastic. So this is the nineties. So you've got onco genes. You've discovered onco genes. You've discovered tumor suppressor genes. So you went from paradigm 1.0, which is this Now why are they growing? Hey, genes are mutated, so let's fix that. We're getting to the root cause, right? So that's great. So then there's the human genome project and cancer because all we need to do is figure In this patient with colorectal cancer, what fix it? Then we're gonna cure cancer. We just need to know what these genes are. So the Human Genome Project finishes in 2000, Not in the least. And the problem was, and this became obvious you didn't find mutations, right? Everybody had, had been thinking that it was that was like this CML. Then you had this multi hit hypothesis, right? You needed two mutations, right? So in colorectal cancer, you had one mutation, And how did these mutations come? They're totally random. It just happened that you got a mutation in So the, this was the somatic mutation theory, hit this oncogene, you get cancer. But turns out that it wasn't, that you didn't mutations. So you look at a typical patient with colorectal So now it becomes impossible to treat because with 70 different things. The problem is, if you have patient A has in the chemo suite there has 70 completely cancer looks exactly the same. Pathologically, it looks the same. So it was this whole idea that it's just random Because think about it this way, if you have 1920s, that cancer looks exactly the same So a hundred years later, half a world away, And completely different genetic mutations, And.. Histopathologically, like on a slide. Yeah. Path on a slide. Yeah. Yeah. And so all these different mutations, different How can it be random? How can you have 70 random mutations in a half a world away, and it still looks the As that same as that cancer that's sitting It wasn't random at all. So this somatic mutation theory that says because they're not random at all. Basically those cancers are developing according They have to otherwise how can patient A right It developed completely independently from That from the colorectal cancer cell patient So this whole genetic mutation theory, which wrong. There's hundreds of mutations usually. So at the last so after they did the human what was it? Cancer Genome study. Where they took I think 50,000, something Cancers and basically.. Targeted, targeted the mutations. They looked at the mutations and how many At the, in 2018, I think I looked, last looked, Yeah. So you're trying to develop treatments to million different problems. That's not gonna work. So after Imatinib, after the HER2/neu, basically genetically targeted mutations that are really way that Glevac was. It's almost not because you haven't answered theory that it's a few mutations that's wrong. This idea that it's random, right? Because remember, if you are a smoker, you're risk of lung cancer. Those are not targeted mutations, right in It's crispr. It's basically random. The way it affects your genome is basically The way it affects your DNA is random. It's not like it targets growth specifically. So why do all those lung cancers pathologically And this whole so by the 2000 and tens, the basically in flames because it wasn't developing difference.