(people chattering) (people chattering) (audience cheering) - [Tour Manager] 45 seconds. 15 seconds. - My name is Lainey Wilson. We're here in Las Vegas and we're doing four nights It's gonna be a really fun show. Everything from the ACMs and the CMAs and here we are, Grammy nominated. It's a little bit hard for It's awesome. This is a (audience cheering) I'm four-fifths of reckless And one-fifth of Jack I push like a daisy Yeah, my kinda crazy's still Wildflowers and wild horses (country rock music) Yeah, my kinda crazy's With wildflowers and wild horses Wildflowers and wild horses (audience cheering) - [Producer] How are you? - I'm doing good. I'm tired but I'm doing really good. (people chattering) You know when I do feel like, man, how am I gonna muster up enough energy to get through all these things I just kind of go back to that place of when I first moved to Nashville of just keeping your head It's really crazy how that part of me has never really gone anywhere. It's like I'm still using that part of me just to get further on down the road. - Good to see you again. This is my third year and this year I'm riding out on a horse. What's this baby's name? - Hollywood? That's my sister's horse's name. - Oh, yes? - [Rider] If you do a lap you can stop in the middle and just encourage him to go and spin. Like this. - [Rider] Then you're Wanna get on? - [Lainey] We'll see. Yes, it feels good. Wildflowers and wild horses - All right, I'm gonna go Wildflowers and wild horses - Cool, and then we'll Like with the- with the click, yeah, yeah, yeah. (Lainey yawns) - You got me yawning. (chuckles) Very rarely are you going have nothing at all on my We played one show. We got three to go. I think I got about four and a half hours of sleep last night. I enjoy doing my own hair and makeup. I feel like it kind of just and also time by myself. 'Cause I'm always around people, always around the band, and it's nice just to in the back of the bus and slap her on. I don't know what downtime but truth is we've just been It has been, (chuckles) that's the best way for me to explain it. Yep. I do feel like we are seeing the payoff. I mean, it's been My team has just been working so hard, my band and everybody on the road the last few years, they have sacrificed a to watch my dreams come But they would do anything and I'm thankful that I've - So we'll do our next appearance. We'll surprise people. It'll be exciting. And then for the rest of the and you'll do your Grammy interview today. And then meet and greet per the usual. We'll do sound check today. Also for your post this morning, you said Instagram, you just - [Lainey] Yeah. - [Bailey] You need anything? - More caffeine? - We can do that. - [Bailey] Yep, cool. - Let's go down there and and take a little swim. - [Bailey] Oh yeah, I did not bring a bathing suit for this occasion. Didn't feel fitting, I'm gonna be honest. Let's see what time it is. - [Bailey] So we have to leave - Okay. - You should be good. It's a walk in, walk out, meet - Yeah. - Come on. (upbeat acoustic guitar music) (upbeat acoustic guitar music) - Oh my god. Good, we just saw you in St. Augustine Yes, ma'am. - I am becoming a businesswoman, Like all I've ever wanted and get on stage and sing 'em, you know? I feel like that dream has just opened up so many more doors of dreams But I do feel like, you know, and even just stepping into opportunities that I never knew that I would do, it does make me feel empowered. It makes me feel like, yeah, I can do it. - [Worker] You look awesome. - What y'all think? Also, look. Mommy, daughter right here. What y'all been asking for. - [Camera Person] I - We're thankful to have They're all kind of coming we're figuring out which and which ones that we need to say no to. Not necessarily that we it's just that you can't. There's not enough hours in the day. (soft upbeat music) - Hi Taylor. You have Kaeleah and Lainey. How are you? - [Taylor] Hi, ladies. - What's going on? - How you doing? - [Lainey] I'm doing good. - [Taylor] We have a series. I work for Grammy.com. As you know, you're a so we wanted to have you as part of this and I'm very excited that you are just the woman of the moment, so- - Thank you, sister. do you feel like you've all of the amazing things that - I mean, I'd be lying that I have soaked up It's been a million, a million - [Taylor] So have you had a chance to properly celebrate the What has felt the most, like, how is this my life moment of your year? Billboard noted that last year you only slept in your own bed 15 nights, so I was wondering if you happen to know how many nights you spent If you could go back and tell 2017 Lainey where her life is at how would you explain that to her? - I'd be like, &quot;Girl, you gonna be tired but you are gonna be exactly - [Taylor] I cannot wait to see how this thing gets any bigger. I'll see you on the road. - Okay. Be good. Thanks, Lainey. (Lainey sighs) - Do you wanna do the - What is it now? You're supposed to do your fitting, but we could also do your question. - This is about Grammys? - Mm-hm, same thing. I need to think this through. I have got a migraine. I am not playing. - [Kaeleah] Do you want a coffee? - Ooh, I need some water, I think. - So what's your name and what Grammys are you up for this year? So you'll say Country Album of Year for &quot;Bell Bottom Country.&quot; - I always think back to a time in my life where I wish I was busy. I wish people were noticing me or my music and I was praying for opportunities. Why don't I do this? Why don't I copy and paste these and put 'em in my teleprompter app? - Yeah. and then we can chop it up? Chop it up. Perfect. - Cool. Anytime I do feel like, man, how much more do I have to actually give? I have to make sure that I so I can give more. (upbeat country rock music) (upbeat country rock music) I'm waitin' on the sun to set Yesterday ain't over yet - My girl Miranda Lambert which is crazy to think and be like, &quot;Hey girl, you She's like, &quot;I'm in Vegas So she's awesome. I mean she's become one of my mentors. She's there for me. You know, when I feel like, man, as a a female in this Who can I, you know, call and be like, what would you do in this situation or how would you handle this? Or hey, when you're and you're losing your what do you do? She's that person that I call. Life ain't hard but it's too long To live it like some country song - So Miranda's gonna come out and we're, of course, We can't have Miranda show up at show and not do one of hers. So we're gonna start out with &quot;Kerosene,&quot; which is hilarious because one I ever did I played (soft upbeat music) Vegas is a country music town and it's not just when And I will tell you that 'cause I was even doing a meet and greet and I met like 60 different &quot;Where are you from? What part of the world are you from?&quot; And they're like, &quot;I'm Country music is a big deal here. Look at how cute you look. Girl. - I'm dressed like my grandma. I love it. What's going on? The older women, I mean and hats on, too, and loving I feel like those are I feel like I've got a What's going on? - How you doing? - You got the Wrangler pants on. You got the whole Wrangler outfit on. Look at you. Oh my God, you are so stinking cute. Get in here. (Lainey chuckles) - [Photographer] Ready, one, two, three. - Like over here? - [Lainey] Okay. Here we go. - Thank y'all. We can't wait to see you tonight. - I appreciate it. Bye y'all, have fun tonight. It's hard 'cause you know, like I, even in meet and greets, I take on everybody's energy. I'm just that kind of person. But when I get up there on that stage, it's like nothing else matters. It does not matter if I'm sick as a dog. It does not matter how tired I am. It's a really neat experience unless you're feeling it, you know? - If I gotta play bass myself, we're gonna kick ass tonight, all right? - All right. (band members laughing) - [Lainey] So let's get out there and act like we know - [Band Member] We do. - Do we? - Lainey Wilson is the I have ever met in my life. - Lainey Wilson is a good person. - Lainey is the most warm and welcoming. She just has like a confidence about her that's super contagious. - There's a lot of creative and I think everybody can (people chattering) - A Lainey Wilson show is fun. - Lainey, Lainey! - Woo! - Badass. (audience cheering) Entertaining. Whether you like it or not, (audience cheering) (audience cheering) (country rock music) Lord knows it ain't no crime To leave a little Make a little mess of I don't need no help, no, I got this Coming in hot as Hold my halo (country rock music) Hold my halo - I tell you what, y'all ain't even ready for this and I can't believe that Y'all give it up for my (audience cheering) Well I'm giving up on love 'Cause love's given up on me - Sing it if you know it, Well I'm giving up on love - Hey, hey! Hey, hey! (audience cheering) - And if you got a heart like a truck, you better turn it up! You ask and you shall receive. And sometimes it's tenfold. Like a truck - I can definitely see the and looking good and making sure that you've got it all together and right. But I've got a lot of people get through those hard times Heart like a truck (audience cheering) - My favorite part of this journey so far is seeing all the little girls in their bell bottoms and their hats. It's wild and I do feel and I got to share this the I got to say it on stage and it's something that It's getting up every single day and looking at yourself in the mirror and saying, &quot;I'm beautiful. I'm Godly, I'm smart, I'm talented. I can do anything I set my mind to. If somebody tells me I You gotta speak it to believe it. Girl, here, I got you a I'm gonna crown you. I'm crowning (audience cheering) (Lainey chuckles) Every single time that to the little girls of like, hey, you better be listening to me. You hear me? I'm kind of saying it to myself too, because again, you gotta speak it to believe it and receive it. So of course I'm saying 'cause it's working for me, but I'm saying it to myself, too. This business is crazy. And if you allow the opinions of others to really eat at you, it can tear you down and it is hard to get out of that hole. The bad opinions of me from doing what I'm supposed to be doing. And I know for a dang fact that I'm supposed to be doing this. I go back to Little Lainey. My daddy brings this horse and he puts me on the &quot;I got you a horse, I remember the horse I would say, &quot;I want down, I want down.&quot; And he just told me, he was But when I say I'm gonna do something... (gentle music) I'm gonna do it. God bless every single one of y'all. My name is Lainey Wilson. &quot;Bell Bottom Country,&quot; baby. (country rock music) (country rock music) That was like therapy right there, girl. - Sorry.