When an 8 - 20 solar mass star ends its And when it's all over, there's a couple away from the explosion site at a fraction released in the form of light and neutrinos, in the center composed almost entirely of The properties of this neutron star are almost And if it all seems rather alien to you, well, wondered if aliens really were behind what Now I'm not sayin' aliens. When we last left the core of a high mass it was fusing silicon into iron, but now it's collapsing The collapse takes a fraction of a second, In lower mass stars, the core supports itself of a rule in quantum mechanics that says electrons But even electron degeneracy fails to stop about 1.4 times the mass of the Sun. That's just Under these huge pressures, a funny thing particles get smashed together, and they merge ALL of them. When the core collapses down a ball of neutrons with some protons and electrons of normal but highly compressed matter on When this happens yet another effect comes neutrons resist being squeezed too tightly pressure is far, far stronger than for electrons. Sun's mass, the collapse runs into a wall. This generates a huge shock wave, which, along called neutrinos, blasts outwards, blowing What's left of the core after the metaphorical most bizarre objects in the Universe. Such a star would be extremely weird. Or really, that of the entire Sun, all packed into a Now let's just stop there for a sec and times the Earth. Imagine packing that all Too mind boggling? OK, think of it this way: your body has a nucleus made of tightly packed around outside them. If you could magnify would be roughly the size of a marble. Imagine the electrons. That's a normal atom. But in a neutron star, ALL OF THAT SPACE would nook and cranny inside the neutron star has of an atomic nucleus. This is what gives a I'm now going to barrage you with very large numbers. Neutron stars are ridiculously dense. A single star stuff is usually called, has a mass of on that number? Well, very roughly, that's in the United States. Imagine a couple of they could all fit inside this six-sided die. It's so dense that, as far as it's concerned, If you set it on the ground it would fall Now, anything that dense has a HUGE gravitational star... well, you'd be very dead, obviously of just a few atoms. And that's because 100 BILLION times stronger than Earth's. on Earth I weigh about 170 pounds. On a neutron 23,000 times the weight of the Empire State But wait! There's more! In our introduction to the solar system I and shrink it the spin will increase--the his arms, increasing his rotation until he's The same is true for the star's core when had a very slow spin before the supernova, when it shrinks down to just 20 km across will increase by a HUGE factor. A freshly minted The magnetic field increases as well. A star not too different from the Earth's. But when skyrockets, and a neutron star can easily stronger than the Sun's. That's strong thousand kilometers away. See? Ridiculous. All of these properties are brain-melting. But are Oh my, yes. The first neutron star was detected was at the time. A couple of years later another identified as a neutron star. But then things got...weird. In 1967, Jocelyn Bell was a graduate student a persistent noise in their data they couldn't finally figuring out that the pattern wasn't actual astronomical object. She had discovered Pulsars are neutron stars. In a nutshell, strong magnetic fields launch twin beams of from a lighthouse. The beams sweeps around this as a pulse, a blip, of increased brightness. radio waves, and even X-rays! The spin of a neutron star is amazingly stable, timed cosmic clock. In 1967, no one could this object was half-jokingly given the name Now we know of over a thousand pulsars in the leftover cores of massive stars that exploded. minutes long. Some are in binary systems; close enough together the neutron star can it. This increases the pulsar's spin, and rotation rates; some spin hundreds of times and if they spun much faster the centrifugal force Even after a thousand years, a pulsar can a pulsar in the center of the Crab Nebula, that supernova remnant. A substantial fraction by the pulsar itself; its fierce output energizes after a millennium. I'm telling ya, thinking about neutrons stand up. And I haven't even mentioned magnetars yet. Neutron stars are more than just weird little a few centimeters thick, made of highly compressed a kind of highly stiffened crystal state. this crystalline crust and stretches out for In some neutron stars the magnetic field is this -- a QUADRILLION times stronger than stars are given the name magnetars. They're stars are born as magnetars. And they have strong it acts like the brakes on a car, slowing power the magnetic field, so the field weakens But while they're around, magnetars are the with great power comes great responsibility... scariest objects in the Universe. In a neutron star, the crust and magnetic one affects the other. The crust of the star gravity and rapid rotation. If the structure -- like an earthquake, but just a WEE bit energy are released when the Earth's crust and quite literally move mountains. But in a neutron star this effect is multiplied. dense, and the gravity is enormous. If the centimeter, the resulting release of energy This energy is released as a tremendous explosion the magnetic field, which reacts...poorly. When the Sun's magnetic field throws a tantrum, as billions of nuclear bombs. A magnetar flare trillions of times stronger than a solar flare can release as much energy as the Sun gives In 2004, astronomers were stunned when a huge One of these satellites, named Swift, actually though it wasn't even pointing at the source through the side of the satellite with such to detect powerful X-ray sources -- was momentarily The source of this X-ray burst was quickly and the effects were incredible: It actually partially ionized the Earth's upper atmosphere. Oh, did I mention that this magnetar is 50,000 the galaxy. That's INCREDIBLE. At a distance more strongly than a powerful flare from the The good news is that there are very few magnetars a dozen. Also, catastrophic explosions like any other time in the past 40 or so years really cool that we had astronomical satellites We've come a long way in understanding neutron there's much about them we don't understand. even weirder than we first thought. And yet, for all that, they're not the weirdest place is held pretty securely by the other a black hole. Today you learned that when a star between the core collapses to form a neutron star. rapidly, and have very strong magnetic fields. brightness as they spin. Neutrons stars with and are capable of colossal bursts of energy Crash Course Astronomy is produced in association YouTube channel to catch even more awesome Plait. The script was edited by Blake de Pastino, It was directed by Nicholas Jenkins, edited Aranda, and the graphics team is Thought Cafe.