(electronic music) - In 1977, NASA sent two golden records into space aboard the Voyager The Voyager probes have become two of the farthest reaching objects And the golden records, contained something utterly unique: audio and images from Earth. By 2030, both Voyager One and Two will cease communications for good. And while they won't be back to Earth, they're going to continue sailing through space at almost The hopes are that one or even both of these records will be intercepted by another advanced civilization, revealing a treasure trove of information that will teach whoever finds them about our pale blue dot of But in order for any one or any thing to see the images contained on the record, they'll have to decode this. And we're going to show you how. (electronic tones) (electric music) If extraterrestrials do the first thing they'll come across is its cover which looks a lot like this. It contains a handful of unique symbols that properly explain how to play the messages sent from Earth. And at first glance, I tried to think how would an And there are always two requirements. You wanted things to be as easy as possible to understand, But you also wanted in a limited number of pictures to have as much information as possible in each picture, so those two requirements are kind of at odds. That's Jon Lomberg, Carl Sagan's long-time friend and collaborator. Jon helped curate the contents of the golden record - It's permeated the culture - The largest of the designs It helps explain our by triangulating the Earth's distance from various neutron that give off pulses of While this information doesn't it would give anyone who finds it a clue as to where it Every other symbol on the cover though is there to explain how to properly play the record and decode the audio. Getting the songs and sounds to play are pretty straightforward. Figure out the correct rotation and speed and they'll spin just like a Granted for an alien figuring out how to work the record might - That should be very But that's not all that's on the record. And understanding the rest - You might think that the images included on the Voyager spacecraft were printed out or included But the golden record There are no jpegs or tifs included on it. The Voyager's computer systems barely enough for one - And at that time in 1977 there was no conventional technology for putting pictures on adeline discs. - NASA had to be a lot craftier with the technology that they Especially with the amount of data they were looking to send and they managed to encode that image data within the audio waveforms themselves. But in order for us to find that data, we need to figure out the rest of the symbols on the cover of the record. Starting on the bottom right we have a diagram depicting hydrogen, the most abundant gas in the universe. I spoke with Jacqueline Van Gorkom, a professor of astronomy She explained to me that the electron in a hydrogen atom changes the direction of its spin. - And so this transition which happens spontaneously once every 10 million years, it makes a little bit of energy. So it emits at 21 centimeter wavelengths. - The hydrogen atom depicted on the cover of the record is undergoing called a hyper-fine transition. And what it emits, the 21 centimeter line, is a very specific radio wavelength that astronomers use to map - It's sort of mind-boggling. - NASA uses that 21 centimeter line as a constant for all the If you convert that 1420 you get 7.042 times 10 to Or .7 nanoseconds, and that one number helps us unlock the rest For instance here's a that depicts this binary When converted to decimal and multiplied by our hydrogen line constant, we get 3229 seconds or The total run time of the And on the top-down view, converting this binary number to by .7 nanoseconds you get 3.59 seconds. The time it would take for So when we play the record that fast, we should hear these sounds. Greetings in 55 languages. Samples of music from around the world. (&quot;Dark was the Night&quot; Sounds of Earth such as oceans, birds, thunder and whales. And on the other side, this. It's that sound that contains all of the image data for the photos and drawings contained And using the process described on the cover, we can render the images. This is where things The top right symbol shows should be broken up with each section of the waveform taking And according to the symbol below that, each of those sections of data completes one out of a that make up a completed image. - To understand the rest of that diagram, you have to understand cathode-ray tube television worked. And few enough people understood it at the time when they were still in use. Fewer understand it now. understand cathode ray tubes, Using Audacity, a free audio program, I selected .008 milliseconds of audio data between each peak in the waveform roughly corrosponding to the area selected on the cover of the album. I exported that data into a CSV file. The data being exported is essentially just number values based on the volume of waveforms at different points along that .008 millisecond section. When you import the CSV into Excel, you can use conditional a different color value for Lower decibel samples and higher decibels into this for 12 hours and Now a circle isn't the most But it has a very important purpose. If we look at the last we'll see the calibration circle. It's a major way point, if aliens manage to decode a shape that matches this, then they'll know that There's no way we're going to do that for the remaining 114 images. But fortunately we live in a world where code can help, and We reached out to Manuel Arturo Izquierdo, an anthropologist who wrote his own code in one night to make this - Basically the idea is and fold them in a way you can convert the thread into a kind of surface, yeah? - Manuel's code takes these and folds them as they would appear in an old television He uploaded the code to and Emily Malec Brown, a helped get the code up and To our astonishment, the images appeared right before our eyes, proving that even 40 years later and with completely different technology, the messages could still (&quot;Dark was the Night&quot; So with the help of an astronomer, an artist, a coder, an anthropologist, Microsoft Excel, and Python, we were able to decode the golden record. But let's not forget, we're not the intended audience for this. Is an extraterrestrial civilization really going to have a shot at this? For John that's really besides the point. - Whatever happens to it in space, whatever its unknown destiny is, I think it represents a high when we dreamed the And I hope it will serve as an example, an inspiration for (acoustic guitar music) - Hey everyone, thanks Check out Vox.com's golden record video where they have a selection of the images and some of the audio and And don't forget to subscribe to our Verge Science YouTube channel, thanks.