You know the classic saying "a Well, what about two pictures, Maybe three...thousand? That's got to be like a million words. In the past, we would need a ton of time But with emoji, we can whip that out They've become so useful in communicating that you can find them And while I've been on a mission to expand the roster of emoji, we can express, In Apple's recent event, where you can type in basically anything you want style emoji that you're able to use, Of course, this is the I know you've heard AI bad so I won't really get into it, going to totally invalidate So, as my final case to prove humanity's design department, I gathered comments from all these videos Let's do it! To start us off, In the first emoji video, I made this one. That was something. And while I think it captures this emotion one that's just generally more tired You know when you're so tired unless you raise your eyebrows? I think that's what I want to go for. So let's start with our blank emoji time, Now I pointed this out last time, but yellow face emojis since they only make up But as I'm sure you're aware, they're used So again, that'll be our main focus To start, let's get some good eyeballs. I want them to be like almost squinty. But like, you know, this. I don't know if those really exist yet. I think Anguished Face is actually and want to just experiment Like that's a pretty bad edit, changes completely with the eyes closed Here, I'm actually just going to copy the ones that are on it right now, And to top it off, eye shadow, Oh, I actually heard about something. It looks like they're planning to add with bags under eyes." already going to come to phones And if we look at the way it just has the shadow right on the eyelid, I'm honestly surprised this emotion I'm not going to lie, I've totally felt where it's been very essential for me and that is not safe. Do not do that. That's looking pretty nice. Maybe going up a little bit and we can add a little more detail And I think that's looking pretty good, This is kind of just the brain dead essentially nonfunctional, but We have a suggestion to make the raised This guy's just like a little bit But especially with the Oh I don't- wanna say that. I feel like this just doesn't So my idea is I want one that's just way more zoomed in, in a way, So it's more like a fisheye So imagine like big eyeball, And we could actually kind of One that's just like this, and one with the actual eyebrows, Yeah, it's pretty awesome in a way. We messed with different perspective in I mean, the actual camera placement but at least the emoji angle did, I'm trying to figure out the best way Like we still want them to be a realistic Let me get a mouth in here, Actually, that doesn't look too bad. It looks a lot cleaner now that I have It's obviously going to stand out being So let's reposition stuff accordingly. I feel like this Maybe we just grab that and scoot it Okay, I think we're running You can see since we scaled up the eyes pretty bad quality, I think there's a filter Yeah, that's pretty good. I might fix it up But anyway, So let's take some inspiration We'll go up and down, as it gets to the middle, Let's mess with the scale a little bit. Maybe warp it a tiny bit to fit just that tiny bit better, Same deal, just a little smaller Yeah okay. Okay. Now let's just tweak the lighting And I think that's pretty good. We'll just get a tiny little highlight But even with something as subtle as that just that little bit more. I'd say those are two pretty I expect them in the next update, Now moving Now the one we already have, and while it's got a lot of situations I think it's kind of missing the emotion I think I'm imagining and I swear there was an emoji but I guess there's not, I want it to mainly be looking downwards, like this sort of thing, And obviously we'll add Oh, I think I'm kind of going for this one So that's actually a pretty solid head I'm going to have this low opacity So eyebrows a little bigger and eyeballs a little lower along with the mouth. Maybe we'll scrunch up the eyes And to get the blush, let's download And I guess just something like this Let me blend it in a little Aw. It's- it's kind of sad. I feel bad. Now these emoji so far are great and all, but I thought a good way to show them off So I tried putting together and this was the best I could do. It did not turn out how I imagined it You know, doing kick flips, grinding But then I realized For a single subscription cost, of high quality meaning I'm able to download as many To make this even cooler, I decided and a shark. Yep, they got those too. Storyblocks has a huge variety of clips, your specific needs, with commissioned content And just like that, that's a significant And it really is that simple. Storyblocks keeps you legally covered, royalty free. To get started with unlimited stock head to storyblocks.com/oatsjenkins Okay, next is a kind of fun idea. While emoji are designed to fit for putting off the wrong vibes. I'm specifically It's like the most generic It should be conveying happiness, that off way better. And that's a colon and a parenthesis. This is, of course, what you'd call an emoticon, And it's like you'd say that It's just the same thing but sideways. But somehow So like this person is saying, the feeling of the emoticons So let's just do that. That looks really funny. Let's make it the That's so strange. That gives off some completely it would, but at the same time, it's I'm keeping it. Sorry. And while we're at it, let's just make the other versions Oh, that doesn't look right, Oh, and there's one more main one, Okay, that font does not work. It's supposed So let's change that to a different font. Whoa, that one's nuts. Using bubble gum pop font. It's not a little tongue and everything. That makes me feel very strange. Cool. Now let's move on to another emotion And that's a true anger. Now, I know what you're thinking. We got so many angry emoji. We got angry face, enraged face, face And even the steamy and Devil ones But I feel like all of these ironically enough, that they almost Like it's almost more like, 'ah, I'm And if there's anything I know it's way more common to express and somehow they come across even more Which I think this comment points out We should get an eye twitching emoji. Now, technically that shows a little less but I think the eye twitch just shows We'll start just like this, like so let's just do something like that. Bring back the black in the pupil, just so that the pupil still stands out. And I think we just need So again Maybe same with the other eye actually. Going to smooth out that edge That works like really well and it's kind of scary, like that Bleh. Maybe we tone it down There you go. If you ask me, this one looks a lot Cool. Then going on the opposite I'm going to make an emoji that's so crazy And I'm actually going to start with the one we just made, First of all, we're not doing the eye I want like a teeth like not smile, Yeah, kind of like this, Not quite there, Or maybe that does work. Actually, that's kind of freaky. I kind of want to curve the edges Like when I'm doing that face, see that and that outer are going out, So let's just do a little bit of warping with the edges and up with the edges Then the final tweak I just want to make but just like the veiny like red eyes, And I think that should actually be Get an inner glow, make the color red, make the size a little bigger. That's actually kind of freaky. geez. Is this too scary? But that's exactly what I was going for. Jeez, Louise, I'm gonna finish that there. And we're not going to think about it too Let's I mean, to be fair, this could be used Where you're just feeling crazy. I don't know, maybe not, but it's Okay, then the past couple Now let's try to cheer up the mood we drew out this guy, we expanded on that idea with this And this person pointed out I should have probably thought of that. So we're just going to work on that. Give him a little t shirt and some pants. I don't know the best way to do this, Something like that'll do right? Yeah, that already looks Got the shirt. Let's get the pants. We're just getting the general outline. Now let's just give these layers Trying to stick with the Apple style. Meaning pretty soft shading. Not too bad. Let's move on to the pants. And yeah I think that's a lot better. Great suggestion by the way. It's crazy how much personality these get. I know this is way more complicated And with those clothes, into making some objects Like this guy that says we should take Now really, we could do any number that would apply to the most situations Nice. That's a pretty easy one. Some people were trying to get me to do like trying to purposely bully people And I'm not going to support that, in the context of the 100 Emoji while also still being lighthearted Next up, we got a camp fire emoji, It wouldn't be one of these videos In the first episode I did that there's a robber emoji, which is why it was first on the list I don't know if people necessarily believe at least makes sense that it should right? Now sadly, I can't find a high quality version of this, we should just start with the regular fire Is there a log emoji? Oh, there totally is sweet, but let's just Trying to outline this carefully Then we're just going to want to mess Like maybe just smaller logs. Something closer to this. Just jammin a bunch of logs in there Far from perfect, And that's the whole point of emoji Shrink that down with the other guys. All right. That was a good break. If we take a look back at our list here, we can see there's this whole section meaning it's just the regular faces giving it some sort of context But I feel like there's a few that are totally missing from here, palm, which we have, by the way, Another one just being a head scratch. That's just like a comically goofy Which nobody does that in real life, But somehow everyone still knows what it And then lastly, but in the modern day, I think it would be totally used all the time, with the hands covering up the sides Anyway, I think head because it's essentially the thinking face We'll just take this, take out the hand that would fit like almost the pointing, Ooh, it's kind of like this guy, So let's just copy that into here, Let's select just our thumb Something like that, kinda. That looks a little off. If we kind of hide it behind the front Hypothetically. Maybe we bend the front Eh, it does not make me feel good. Playing with fingers like this That's fine. That looks kind of bad. But, you know, we got to move on. So there you go. A real head scratcher. Next is the face palm. This one should be super easy I think we just start with this guy Maybe give it a little bit of a shadow. I think I understand why they didn't do It's not very clear, but there you go. And finally, this guy, I want it to specifically So again, But I think again Let's get our stuff kind of in position And this one can shrink down almost like this guy we made earlier, but It really is quite similar, just opposite. That's looking pretty good to start. The eyes are currently looking towards the camera, We'll just grab these pupils I mean, even just that is kind of funny. We can save that one. Let's grab some hands. So I want I think maybe like these two, because it's got the palm on this one We go like this and like this. Hold on. These are all distracting for me. I almost want it to be curved which I think we can accomplish by Okay, something like this is coming along Let me get rid of these little white That's no good. The lighting kind of from different directions, Let me grab the shadow from the hand Maybe we can direction that a little bit. Don't want it to be too intense, but And maybe we kind of apply The hands look a little janky, Not too bad. And with that, And this will be the ultimate checkmate The whole appeal of AI but what if our phones actually Like literally just what I've been doing, now, I don't mean pulling out Photoshop and going through all this crazy effort, where you can make limitless characters What if we could do that with emoji? Not just the circle faces, but There's all different kinds of face shapes and hair and hair colors What if we could just make our custom emoji or occupations? I feel like this is the ultimate solution while continuing to give these emoji and like this person says, why not let us customize it We could do crazy colors or position I feel like this is a way more logical and fun step than just But anyway, I think my favorite It's kind of cute and I feel like So here's me And for next episode, I know we already did chip bags and candy I feel like there's a middle ground there but those videos were a lot of fun. Let's just keep those vibes going. Leave a comment and I might pick it for next time, or just let me know I see those suggestions easier Thank you guys for the support