Hello, I am Casayun. . In this video, I will be sharing how to make perfect homemade Panettone. Without using bread machine, you can make this beautiful panettone at home. Let's get started! This recipe can make 2 panettones of 14 cm. Please check the description section for detailed recipes. * Please prepare in advance. Put 3 Tbsp of water and 1 Tbsp of rum in a bowl containing 120 g of dried fruits. Dried fruits - 60g of raisin &amp; 60g of candied orange peel. Shake it to mix. Let it soak at least for 5 hours to overnight. Prepare Poolish (pre-ferment). Water 120ml / Instant dry yeast 5g / All purpose flour 135g. Mix well to combine all ingredients. This Poolish (pre-ferment) will enhance the flavor and texture of the bread. Mix well without lumps. Close the top tightly. Leave it at room temperature for about 12 hours until it doubled in size. The time may vary depending on the temperature of the working environment (up to about 8-14 hours). - Next day morning. Let's make main dough. All purpose flour 340g / Sugar 50g / Salt 5g. Put all the dry ingredients in a clean bowl and stir it lightly. Egg yolks 4 / Orange juice 80ml. Honey 10g / Vanilla extract 2 tsp / Rum 2 Tbsp. * After 14 hours. You can see that the volume is doubled and large and small bubbles are visible. Put it in the bowl. Gather the dough into one piece. When the dough begins to form into a lump, add 70g of unsalted butter (room temperature). Mash the butter with the hands and mix with the dough. Transfer it to the workbench and begin kneading the dough. Use the heels of your hands to push down and outward. The dough will be very sticky since it contains lots of butter. Use a scraper to organize the dough on the workbench and knead it evenly on all sides. You have to keep kneading it to help the gluten develop. This can take as little as 10-15 minutes. Check if the dough stretches into a paper thin film without breaking. Grease the hands with a little oil since the dough is quite tacky to the touch. Divide the dough in half. Stretch the dough to form a square. Add the soaked and drained dried fruits. Fold the dough up and down, right and left. It's much easier working with a scraper . Turn the dough over and round it. Transfer it to a clean bowl. Repeat the same process for the rest of the dough. Add chocolate chips to the other dough. Chocolate chips 120g (semi-dark). Fold the dough as the same way. Make sure the chocolate chips are evenly mixed into the dough. Chocolate dough is less sticky than dried fruit dough, so you can use your hands. Close the top well. Let dough rise until 2,5-3 times in a warm place (about for 2 hours). * The time may vary depending on the working environment. * Please get ready - 14x14x10cm of panettone paper mold (x2). - After 2 hours. Transfer the dough to the workbench carefully. Fold the edges of the dough to the center several times. Turn the dough over. Put the dough into the panettone mold. Repeat the same process for the chocolate dough. Slightly press the top side so that the dough fills the bottom side. Place it on a baking tray. I am going to show you how to rise my dough. Place two cups under the baking tray. Then place a bowl of hot water between the cups. Let dough proof until it rises to the height of the mold in a warm place. Cover the large box to create an airtight space. * Let it proof about for 2-3 hours. - After 3 hours. Brush the surface well with an egg wash. You can omit the egg wash if you don't want the top to darken. Score the top of the dough. If it is difficult to make a cut, you can cut the center of the dough into a small cross with scissors. Place a piece of butter in the center of the dough. Bake in an oven preheated to 170 for about 30 minutes. Bake until evenly golden brown on top. * Turn the dough in the oven at 20 minutes of baking. Nicely baked . Pass a thin, long stick through the underside of the bread. Hang upside down and let it cool for at least 6 hours. This prevents the bread collapse in on itself and keeps the lovely soft and fluffy texture. Lovely Homemade Panettone ! It takes time, but it's really worth it! Look at this beautiful panettone. Soft and fluffy texture, the perfect Panettone you've been looking for. You can feel the unique aroma and taste of Panettone from dried fruits and bread. The crust of the bread is also really soft. Let's see chocolate panettone. Who doesn't like chocolate? . The great thing about homemade is that you can add lots of fillings! If you want to make it easier and simpler, try making it with chocolate. Everyone will love it! Enjoy at home. Thanks for watching Your 'Like' and 'Subscribe' help me a lot!