This video has About two years ago, I think I was doing research and I ended up watching I don't remember exactly but I do clearly remember They showed that if a magnet it just floats there At first, I thought that it was just but it could be easily pushed On top of this, was that when it was gently nudged, After seeing this, to see how hard it was Based on what I saw, but it also seemed I procrastinated for the next year and a half to finally commit myself to it. When I looked into it a bit more, can technically be made However, for most of them to work, they need to be cooled For example, just mercury but only when it's lower than -269degC, The superconductor was called a YBCO superconductor, It only had to be lower than -181 degC, which I could easily do I did a bit more research, and I found that there were other ones However, I couldn't find and from what I did find, they all seemed YBCO really seemed I committed to making YBCO, and now I had Like before, and the first result that I got It was a video by Ben and he was able to make He covered almost and it was extremely helpful. The only thing that I wanted to change Ben had just used a crucible as a mold, so it wasn't exactly but I wanted mine just like I had seen in that video. In the description, he also gave a link to the full-length procedure It was probably the most detailed and it made everything I decided to do exactly what they did, However, when I actually sat down I realized that none YBCO is called YBCO barium, copper, and oxygen. However, it's because of the ratio There's always one yttrium, In this case though, this 1:2:3 ratio, On top of this, they did a whole bunch and they also used a number This isn't to blast them because calculation errors but it meant It was very possible and it probably was. But after seeing this, I scoured the Internet and a few days later, It wasn't nearly as detailed but it actually gave Before I could actually get started, The first two were and I was able I also needed barium nitrate, but I wasn't able I unfortunately ended up from a chemical company. The last thing which is commonly used in food, so it was really easy to find, At this point, I had but I started to worry The copper nitrate but I really wasn't sure The eBay listing However, you can Unfortunately, and the best way that I found To do this, along with about 100 milliliters I let it stir for a couple of minutes, and then I started adding The amount that I added here was random, but when I eventually I turned on the hot plate. Right now, nothing was really happening, the yttrium oxide suddenly This quickly turned it which, unlike the oxide, This caused and after this, I just kept adding the oxide It eventually got to a point and this meant I then added a bit more nitric acid, This caused it to clear up again, but it was still a bit cloudy of solid junk that was floating around. I had no idea what this was, It was apparently a good thing To get rid of it, I filtered it all and this left me I then put it all back on the hot plate I honestly didn't know exactly and I just went until it was roughly After that, I took out the stir bar and I waited for it I let it sit like this for a few hours, I started poking at it a bit to force I wasn't sure if this was going to work, but it did, that formed around the stir rod. I then gently stirred the whole thing The next day, there was a whole bunch and I broke it into smaller pieces. To separate it, and I was eventually left It was all still covered in water I put it all into a vacuum chamber I pulled a full vacuum on it What I had now was some dry This, of course, and if I specifically part of the purification process But conveniently, is actually the first step including the one that I was following. This whole purification was just At this point it was still a bit wet, so I put it all back and I let it dry for a few days. After this, I had and now I could actually To do this, I started by adding and I turned on the stirring. Then into this, I dumped in 72.48 grams It immediately turned a really nice blue When I came it was still a bit cloudy, of copper carbonate in there. This wasn't much of an issue though, and I just added to convert it all into copper nitrate. This caused it to all quickly clear up, and the next thing that I added This however, really wasn't very soluble, and I had to heat it I let it stir for about 20 minutes but there was still This was fine though, and I just went ahead and added that I had just made. I then waited until it looked like However, exactly when that happened was a bit hard to tell floating around. When it eventually seemed okay, I added the final ingredient, I let this stir for about 20 minutes, The red color and it was probably around a 1 or 2. What I had to do next was neutralize this, To do this, I had to use ammonia and I had just recently bought The moment that it was added, it started reacting It also generated a lot of heat and it was causing I had to make sure to add it slowly. After adding a decent amount, I let it stir for a few minutes, It now looked like it was around 5, which was better, From here, I just kept adding small amounts The first major reaction was between the basic ammonia and I was turning it It was also reacting though, with the yttrium, and turning them into hydroxides. The copper and yttrium hydroxides then reacted with more ammonia I don't think the barium and it was instead forming However, and I had a very hard time finding any decent info It was really hard to tell but it eventually looked To see if all the barium had disappeared, I took out a small sample There was a small so I quickly poured it When this was eventually done and now it was time To do this, I had to split it up and I poured I then turned on the hot plate About 30 minutes later, Based on what I had read and seen, I still wasn't sure though, and it was just so gross that I had messed something up. I actually started thinking but it turned out At first, because it was way louder I also didn't think or that it would grow like that. It was a pleasant surprise though, and I honestly think it's one of the coolest reactions When the reaction was over, the beaker was still very hot, Then into a new beaker, I was trying to use more because I had to keep for a total of about 500 milliliters. I was hoping that by using 75 milliliters, I wasn't overdoing it go a bit faster. Now, in terms of what it was called Just before it had turned but it had also made ammonium nitrate. This was a really strong oxidizer, and all the ammonium citrate When the temperature was high enough, and it caused it to burn. All the yttrium, barium, were mixed in here as well though, and the heat of the reaction It turned them all into their oxide forms, which was why the side When I first did this reaction, but I don't actually I think that it was mostly just making I was a bit worried might be a problem, The only thing that I didn't like In this run, but in another one, it could grow weird I went and to make it go faster, It was fun and it felt like I was eventually almost done, but with the last little bit that I had, In all the other runs, that clouded the beaker I wanted to see if I could fix this It was definitely a lot clearer, a bit of a failure. There was just no way What was worse though, was that this dish which meant that it wasn't great Despite this, I was hoping but it did not. Because it exploded I didn't trust the quality Unfortunately, was just garbage. That didn't really matter though, from all the other runs. What was interesting an insane amount of it, The moment it just collapsed. I then mixed it around and I combined everything At this point, like I said before, I don't think and it was just a mixture To turn it into the YBCO, it had to be heated in the presence of pure oxygen. Most procedures said that they used something called a tube furnace, they weren't exactly cheap. They were all way too expensive, I would have This was exactly what Ben had done, and he had modified his furnace so it should have been okay. With a bit more research though, I found some tube furnaces being sold I spent a while researching all the different models, which had a nice touchscreen. The total price was about $2,000 USD and I figured it was worth trying out. I guess the only downside and I didn't know I was excited but I also got a call telling me I was calling about your package. Yeah, I'm actually going Okay, the only problem It's quite severely damaged. It seems that they shipped it I'm not sure what you want to do. You'd have to look After hearing this, I was pretty much expecting However, and there was only which I was okay with. I still had to make sure so I brought it I then clicked the button, But then it suddenly turned off, There was also some nice smoke which isn't something with electronics. I was really disappointed, and I figured that it was damaged but then I realized When I was ordering it, they asked if I wanted and I totally forgot that I said 120V. I also forgot to tell them instead of the standard 220V Chinese one. Based on the plug I just assumed it was 220V This was probably that I've ever made, and it was very possible I honestly panicked a bit, and despite knowing I took it apart to see what was broken. The first thing that I found which had popped open at the top of it. It had also spewed onto the board that was above it. The only other thing was the voltage transformer. When I took it out, I assumed that I was going and maybe some but I apparently got really lucky. When I contacted the company, and they told me didn't actually matter. I technically didn't even have and all I did was take off Now, the only other obvious problem was the transformer, I swapped it out for a new one. We then plugged it in to the proper 110V socket, which was a good sign. The real test though, and I was genuinely really nervous. But by some amazing luck, I then did a few heating tests on it and it was completely fine. Apparently, luck was on my side and I didn't have to buy It did take a few days to troubleshoot which wasn't ideal. But either way, I could now get back to the actual project To do this, and I filled it with the oxide powder. I had no idea how much I could add, and I just put and it wasn't really based on anything. I then took out the piece of paper that was just being used After that, which would help seal the furnace I then rigged the tube that would let me attach the oxygen. With all that done, I closed the furnace I also opened the oxygen tank I spent a lot of time trying to figure out how much oxygen I had to use, This was based on nothing, and I just went After that, I turned on the furnace and I checked the heating curve I had set this up beforehand Over an hour, it would be slowly heated After that, it would be slowly cooled at 50degC an hour This whole process should cause and form the YBCO. The slow cooling part which was very important. I went ahead and started it, and I came back to check At this point, it was and on the outside, If I looked in from the side though, It was going to have to cook and then it would be and I just left it overnight. The next day, I opened the furnace, and the first thing that I noticed and that it had also shrank. I then took off and I pulled out the white blocks. To get it out of the tube, What I had now but it was still In theory though, and I wanted to see I poured some liquid nitrogen into a dish I then dropped in a piece When everything looked nice and cold, I dropped a piece and it clearly didn't work. This was honestly a bit disappointing, The first problem and there wasn't actually very much here. The second, was that I don't think YBCO always has the same ratio but it's able to vary However, it's only able and what I had probably To fix both these problems, the YBCO is usually and then put back into the furnace That was exactly what I had to do next. To do this, and I ground it into a fine powder. I think in Ben's video after he did this, he just put it all and it ended up working. However, like I said before, I wanted mine to be To make this happen, I needed a die set I also needed a hydraulic press, over a year ago. Basically, I had everything that I needed, but I had no idea and I just ended up putting in all of it. Then on top of it, I added and I brought it For safety reasons, just in case something decided I then started pressing it I let it sit there for a few minutes and I took off the bottom piece. I could see and now I had to get it out. I flipped the whole thing over, and I pressed it until the rod At first, I was pretty happy with it, but when I got a closer look, Also, when I tried to move it, I think this happened missing a piece of my die set. I was supposed to have two of those metal spacers underneath the powder. I think this just really helps keep everything together and the pellets getting pushed out. I then carefully tried that I cut from a fire brick. Unfortunately though, and this just made me want However, when I flipped it over, I decided to just roll with what I had Now, as I said before, one of the major purposes was to oxygenate it as much as possible. Another very important thing was something called sintering. The pellet that I had now was just a bunch but in the high heat, Then, as it slowly cooled, it should crystallize, which, When it was done, and like before, I carefully The pellet that I had now but I was used to it being super fragile, Regardless of all that though, what I had at this point Now, I was really anxious to test it out Like before, I filled the dish with some liquid nitrogen and I waited for it to cool down. I then got a small magnet and it actually worked. It was floating, and I was honestly really surprised that I was able to do it Also, this whole time, of my yttrium and copper nitrate, Up until now, I've referred to the floating magnet it isn't anti-gravity, When superconductors it was believed that they were basically It was found that they had effectively no resistance with almost perfect efficiency. However, it was then discovered that they were a bit It was also found that superconductors This meant that instead they were strongly repelled. In my case, when is applied to my little YBCO pellet, an opposing magnetic field and it pushes back on the magnet. This induced field perfectly and it causes it to float. This effect alone though, and cause it to fall off, another unique effect The crystal structure and small defects to still get through. This causes and they act like tethers This is called flux pinning, and unlike the diamagnetism, Even though the magnet it's still connected to the YBCO, and if I push it around, Now, another thing to check if I put the magnet on When I did this, and then it suddenly jumped into the air. This is called the Meissner effect, It happens because at first, the magnetic field This changes though, the moment that it gets and it becomes a superconductor. It suddenly becomes and it starts expelling This first run turned out to be The pellet that I had made though, was ugly and I The next thing that I wanted and to make several, To do this, repeat the exact same process. This time, to fill the tube a lot more, However, this was only about 70% After this, I would When it was done I dumped it all out, and it was definitely However, it looked like it still had When I crushed it up it looked okay, but I didn't like this at all, I put it all back into the furnace, and this time, it was much better. Looking at it now on video, it was definitely a lot blacker. I then ran the last 30% of the powder, and I also did it twice, After that, I went back to my fire brick I sized it to be the biggest thing and it looked That was how many I was going to make. Now, in terms of pellet thickness, I had to decide For the first one, and it ended up being But now, and that it weighed 3.85 grams, I could calculate the amount The 1.9 millimeters did seem to be okay, but I felt that it was just so I decided I also found and I was able to make After making four of them, I decided for the last one This one was 6 millimeters, and I wanted to see I again loaded it all into my furnace When it was done, they all looked good, and I was pretty excited I had to test them though, so I soaked I then got and I was disappointed to say the least. I thought that maybe so I tried all the others and the big one, This was a very sad result, and I wasn't exactly sure The one thing that I knew though, because I did have To me, the only possible difference I had used a lot more powder this time, getting it all fully oxidized. I figured that there was literally and that was to oxidize it a bit more. To do this, back into a powder, to crush them by hand. It worked okay but these bits were way too hard and I wasn't able Instead, Then after that, I screwed the top on This gave me a relatively fine powder, The powder this time so I was able to spread it out I ran it overnight and the next day, I then crushed them all back into pellets, and I again made This time though, the last one was more like This happened I somehow lost 4 grams of the YBCO. I really have no idea where it went and I think that some of it in the furnace. But either way, I then centered them, and I was really hoping I was going to have I took them out the next day, and like before, That didn't really matter, so I took one of them When it seemed cold enough, I then got my magnet, that it was just going Also, if this didn't work, then I'd have literally no idea Thankfully though, it did end up working and I honestly can't say Like I just said, if it didn't work, but I guess I then tested each one and I also tried out the big one. One thing that I noticed though, as high as that first successful run. Also, the big one To me, this meant that it was still probably lacking oxygen. I really didn't want to have but I decided to do it one last time. I didn't do them all though, and I just loaded up This time, I also decided and instead of 10 hours at 920degC, I honestly but there was actually a huge difference. On the smaller one, the magnet floated It was also able to hold which I thought was pretty impressive. The big one was now actually and it had no problem It could even keep it up and it had enough clearance At this point, and I was really happy However, there was something important Up until now, I had always but it should also be possible To try this out, I set up a little magnet track, I dropped it on. It was actually able to hold itself up, and when I pushed it, without falling off. I was also able to shake the whole thing and bounce it back and forth, The moment that it warmed up though, it would just fall off. Now, there's one final thing. I wanted to try adding while it was floating above the YBCO. I'd seen this in a few videos, I also thought between my own projects, that I had made myself. I had made but it's still perfectly good. While I was doing this, I realized that the one big thing was a magnet. For my next big project, I've decided to try and make However, I haven't even started on that, and I have no idea As I've said before, projects like these take and they can often cost quite a lot. When I started this channel, and I never thought But thankfully, these big projects are actually possible. This one in particular which is a service when you're browsing the Internet. It does this by encrypting and then routing it This prevents anyone, from seeing what you're doing For me though, besides privacy, I mostly use it to access content There are a lot of streaming services that I'm just not able to use, have a selection that changes With just a few clicks though, and access Now, if I go to Netflix, I can see It has a whole bunch and it's the only one that has which is one of my favorite shows. But with all that being said, and breaking geo-restrictions, You can do this by going they're giving three extra months for free They also have and there's a link in the description. But with all that being said, I think this is officially I hope you guys liked it, and bye. As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me at least 24 hours You'll also get access to all the older videos If you support me with $5 or more, you'll get your name