Let's say things with Russia turn into desperate Vladimir Putin sees his regime about to enemies with him as possible, he orders a massive West. As the silos open, hundreds or thousands with nuclear warheads streak away at speeds of Thankfully, this hypothetical remains also not entirely impossible. Russia has the 6,000 weapons and roughly 1,600 actively these might strike if fired is one that about since the days of the Cold War. Now, it's worth looking at how such a doomsday take a look at the places Russia might target with Some of the first US targets for a Russian nuclear expect. The Pentagon is among the most important US Department of Defense. If Russia were able be an enormous blow to the command structure cripple the US armed forces, but would cause a for the US to organize a response. Because of a strike on the Pentagon would also likely people live in DC, while more than 6.3 million nuclear strike on the Pentagon indicate that instantly, with many more falling sick from would vaporize the Pentagon itself and anything strike would radiate outwards some 4 miles from the US Capitol Building, White House, and Supreme shockwave following it would be deadly on their which would create the biggest hazard. Radiation to cause third degree burns, while also causing cellular degeneration and cancer. Even if people the explosion, there is a good chance they would The White House is roughly putting it well within the damage zone of a they would likely be killed by the force of the were not targeted independently. Thousands of US sending the government into crisis mode. The and likely invoke martial law. If the president would be the Vice President, Speaker of Pro Tempore of the Senate, Secretary of State, Besides the institutions around Washington attack would be to strike as many US missile retaliatory strike. There is almost no chance nearly as many nuclear weapons as Russia, in nuclear submarines hidden around the world, would certainly try to take out as many with Minuteman III ICBMs- which would mean One of these is Malmstrom Air Force Base, are around 3,400 military personnel and many responsible for the 150 Minuteman III nuclear weapon were able to strike Malmstrom, it would 15,000 people in the nearby towns of Black Eagle nearly double, even though the area is very not be the goal of a strike on Malstrom, as Russia ICBMs to be fired from the base. The effects would also be devastating. Water flowing through instantly vaporize, while the flow from upstream around Malstrom. The river would carry radioactive its length. It would take months or years for any In the meantime, large amounts of animals hundreds of miles away. The ecological effect of and Malstrom is far from the only target Another key base likely to be targeted by Russia base contains roughly another 150 Minuteman personnel and 420 civilians. However, the town thousand people. There would likely be over suffering from injuries and radiation sickness. cause huge environmental damage, with radioactive The final ICBM silo which Russia would likely Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming. The since they are actually spread around and Colorado. The base has roughly similar Minot, and casualties from a strike Wyoming would also be devastated, and anyone In addition to the major silos, a Russian nuclear centers across the country. Many of these are often in plain sight. One major target would be or NORAD headquarters at Peterson Air Force Base of US and Canadian service members and civilians, America. Unfortunately, Peterson Base has over 1,900 civilian staff, 10,000 family members, and outside the city of Colorado Springs, which has strike in this area would probably kill more or irradiate another 200 thousand. Contamination much of the area uninhabitable, while winds could Another major target is Offutt Air Force Base, headquarters of the US Strategic Command, or deterrence, global strike, and operating the STRATCOM is critical to the operation of the Offutt Air Force Base, it could kill more than would also seriously degrade the US ability to create confusion within the command structure of Omaha would be largely destroyed, potentially River would also be contaminated, leading to the In the event that STRATCOM was hit with a nuclear of the other 10 command and control centers oversee preparations for a retaliatory nuclear since Russia would be hard pressed Yet another potential target for Russian transmitter in Cutler, Maine. This station in the US Navy's Atlantic fleet, allowing them to its messages at 24 kHz and only uses 1.8 megawatts Base which sends launch codes to US Ohio-class the most difficult leg of the nuclear triad for Russia could theoretically cut off US contact harder. While immediate loss of life from a its position on the Atlantic coast means that of the damage. There is also Cutler's counterpart which transmits to the pacific fleet. It also sits but again, air and water contamination from potentially making life in both cities hazardous. Washington, which could burn for weeks on end, Russia would also target bases on Hawaii, US mainland. On the island of Oahu is another VLF submarine fleet if the Jim Creek installation transmitter unfortunately also makes Hawaii fleet communications. A Russian ICBM strike as it is the most populated Hawaiian island, Due to its isolation and contained ecology, a entire island uninhabitable. There are also very so anyone on the island would either die Hawaii also plays host to multiple US naval chance that the state would be hit with multiple Every location above is a strategic military on those positions would kill many hundreds of attack on multiple US cities would be far, far there is no reason to think he would major cities would also destroy their economic each side would try to devastate the other targeting of civilians. Such an attack could far exceeding the only past uses of Outside of Washington DC, New York City is both the financial capital of the as well as a global symbol of American nuclear explosion in Manhattan would be beyond but is one of the most densely populated areas warhead would instantly kill between 1.5 million seriously injured from radiation, burns York City collectively have almost 8.5 million, upended. Even for those who avoided the initial hour winds could prove fatal. As researchers "demolish the flimsiest buildings and strip leaving only their naked and warped scaffolding. rip through trees, fling people through the air, projectiles. A blast in Times Square, combined deep at the center of the explosion. The shock shattering windows as far as Gramercy Park The city's medical infrastructure would especially with many major hospitals Manhattan and other boroughs would be extremely collapsed tunnels and bridges, and press of release a strong electro-magnetic pulse, which including electronic communication, medical would make any emergency response vastly more Yet, in the event of a real nuclear war, Russia obvious target, as the country's second-largest cultural power. LA is not as densely populated and sprawling, low-rise housing. But at this point blast in downtown LA would also be apocalyptic. with a million and a half more injured. little public transportation. Because of this, would be almost impossible to use, as people drought would also be made far worse, potentially In the middle of the country, Chicago and its be targeted. A nuclear blast here could and badly injure over a million. While a into lake Michigan, with winds spreading heavily-populated Great Lakes region would be at To have any chance in a nuclear war, the West could overwhelm Russia's limited even a small percentage of the nuclear weapons much of the United States and make many areas actual impact sites still might not be a guarantee parts of the country. Since 80 percent of any nuclear strike on the Eastern seaboard would that the total number killed, injured, or exposed could exceed 256 million. That's three-quarters But an attack on the US would also leave Russia meaning that they too would almost certainly be mean major European military installations which coordinates NATO's air and missile defense first to know if a country like Russia actually geographic proximity, there would be little time Ramstein could kill some 30 thousand people, across the continent. Assuming a retaliatory this also makes European targets riskier for Putin some fallout could make it all the way back to the might be targeted include NATO's Supreme Allied in Europe like Caserma Ederle in Italy, which Strategically or economically important cities in London, the most populous city in Western Europe, roughly 200 nuclear weapons of its own, which New York City, a nuclear explosion over London casualties from the shockwave and radiation could of the UK, meaning that its government would also London's vital infrastructure would any emergency response very difficult. And carry the radiation north into Scotland, and West Long story short, anywhere in the world getting horrifying scenario. While this hypothetical it's also pretty obvious that if it did, there the concept of Mutually Assured Destruction which governments like the US are ridiculously if it did happen. As the article in "More than 70 years ago, America became the first Despite witnessing the immediate and enduring technological advances in nuclear warfare -- a similar assault on its own soil. Much of the city like New York would be improvised -- adapted Putin knows that firing even a single nuclear and possibly of much of Russia, but the and could theoretically be used at any time in it wouldn't hurt governments around preparations, because the fact is, But what do you think? What would the and just how unprepared is the world for think in the comments below, and don't forget to