When I first went to play for Dorothy When she said, Do you have backaches? And I said, Yes, I've always had them. But what does it have to do with She said the back muscles tighten up It's amazing to know that what we do here all the way to the back and all the way So one of my big goals a bit, to fill in some of the gaps One of the pieces I picked up I was working on the third movement when I remembered an extremely important not been incorporating. After decades of playing the piano. Hearing it from teacher after teacher, advising it to my own students, ROTATION! Most pianists, no matter what But what exactly is rotation and why is it What's the part of our body Seymour Bernstein: &quot;The leg rotates in both directions.&quot; The arm rotates in both directions. Every finger rotates in both directions. The head rotates in both. None of that has to do with the rotation. It is primarily, It is not a wrist rotation. Some people talk about wrist rotation, The hand can't rotate without the form. So it's really basically a forearm Before we continue, though, to rotate your fingers We are on our way to reaching So take a second and subscribe! The concept of rotation in piano playing was first written about The idea of rotation then became a fundamental principle whose teachings have become a really core Over on Tonebase Premium, on Tubman's teachings, including lessons in which they really break down and how it can really help This information is really helpful whether you're a beginner As always, be sure to check the link more about Tonebase and the entire I'm Robert Fleitz from Tonebase. And today we're going to hear from several why rotation is important, express your musical ideas So let's go. But it's useful about what happens in the arm The forearm has two bones. There's the ulna which stays the radius, So it does this movement. and rotating at the piano and rolling back to this position. Really, the most comfortable is the one that we are in So you're at rest like this. You know, for example, the Pope blesses So this is where the bones are parallel. So I always keep because that relaxes the arm and it stops building up tension, which And if you all want to learn this is what you do. Pretend and turn the key. See? You're rotating! One of the things that we encourage people to do is to put their arm and to turn the palm of their hand and turn it towards the floor and to observe the back of your forearm And what's happening the arm that goes to the elbow and another bone, which is a revolving That's very important to understand in this direction has a certain stability. The upper arm is moved by slow muscles, And you can see do it and you see immediately you move the forearm and it feels light and very easy to move much faster, but still not fast enough And this is where rotation comes into it. Rotation's important mechanism In other words, to be connected finger, hand and arm, I can't suddenly disconnect the mechanism for the next note and feel that So what rotation does is it helps us move So if I turn my forearm, I can get to many places on the keyboard Now I strongly recommend you practice quite a lot at just the interval of a fifth until that feels really loose for maybe quite a few bars We're going to play the fifth finger Really feel that and then start to just tap the thumb and then you can do two taps and then three and so on, and then you can start to add in the fifth and so on, and only then start to extend out And if your hand is very, very small for quite some time, And obviously if it's much bigger, or even the ninth or even the 10th What's very interesting to discuss is what is related in a way to legato. I was taught, and singing tone was really emphasized So I had a notion of just kind of And when Taubman showed me that it was without having to squeeze the notes it was very revolutionary for me. So I'm on the five and I'm going to four. What's wonderful about the rotation is playing and giving for the support Simultaneously, it's helping release that fifth finger off of where it's been. It moves the music from sounding static to actually being round and moving forward. There's rotation in there. What happens if we played the G It doesn't sound continuous even when the note is long, in the same way as if it was not a quick connected together with a free for I'm the free forearm allows me to come in a way and continue into here It will continue. I wanted to give you an idea that from the very beginning We say sometimes the inner and the outer and people feel a certain balance and stability on those fingers We're not consciously thinking about but once we practice the movement and feel absorbed into our way of playing, So whenever you see a passage you'll be able to use that rotation and you won't even notice Thanks for joining us today on this WHIRLWIND exploration of rotation. And remember, this is just the beginning You can find the full version today, as well as many more courses of piano technique that will help you Thanks for watching, everyone. Stay tuned for more videos coming soon. Be sure to check out the link to sign up for Tonebase Premium And be sure to click that like and subscribe button! We really appreciate every one of you. See you next time.