[ominous music plays] Do you want to rule? Do you see the problems in your If only you had the power to do so. Well. You've come to the right place. But, before we begin this ask yourself, why don't rulers see as clearly as you, instead acting in such selfish, self-destructive, short-sighted ways? Are they stupid? These most powerful people in the world? Or, is it something else? The throne looks omnipotent from afar, but it is not as it seems. Take the throne to act, and the throne acts upon you. Accept that or turn back now before we discuss, The Rules for Rulers. [upbeat music softly plays] No matter how bright the rays of any sun king, No. Man. Rules. Alone. A king can't build roads alone, can't enforce laws alone, can't defend the nation, or himself, alone. The power of a king is not to act, but to get others to act on his behalf, using the treasure in his vaults. A king needs an army, and someone to run it. Treasure and someone to collect it, Law and someone to enforce it. The individuals needed to make the king's keys to power. All the changes you wish to make if the keys will not follow your commands. In a dictatorship, where might makes right, the number of keys to power is small, perhaps only a dozen generals, bureaucrats, and regional leaders. Sway them to your side and but never forget, displease them, and they will replace you. Now, all countries lie on a spectrum from those where the ruler needs few key supporters, to those where the ruler needs many. This foundation of power is Yet many keys, or few, the rules are the same. First, get the key supporters on your side. With them, you have the power to act. You have everything. Without them, you have nothing. Now, in order to keep those keys to power, you must, second, control the treasure. You must make sure your treasure is raised and distributed to you, [for all your hard work] and to the keys needed to keep your position. This is your true work as a ruler, figuring out how best to raise and distribute resources, so as not to topple the house of cards upon which your throne sits. Now you, aspiring benevolent dictator, may want to help your citizens, but your control of the treasure so you must keep those keys loyal. But there's only so much treasure in your vaults, so much wealth your kingdom produces. So beware. Every bit of treasure spent on citizens is treasure not spent on loyalty. Thus, doing the right thing, spending the wealth of the nation on the citizens of the nation, hands a tool of power acquisition to your rivals. Treasure poured into roads, and is treasure a rival can promise to key Benevolent dictators can spend but the keys must get their rewards, for even if you have gathered the most loyal, angelic supporters, they have the same problem as you, just one level down. Being a key to power is a position of power. They too, must watch out for rivals from below or above, thus the treasure they get must also be spent to maintain their position. The loyal and dim may stay but smart key supporters, will always watch the balance of power, ready to change allegiance, if you look to be the loser, in a shifting web of alliances. In countries where the keys are few, the rewards are great, and when violence rules, the most ruthless are attracted, and angels that build good works will lose to devils that don't. So buy all the loyalty you can, because loyalty, in dictatorial organizations For the ruler, anyway. Thus, the dictatorship exposed. A king who needs his court to raise the treasure to keep the court loyal and keep raising the treasure. This is the self-sustaining core of power. All. Outside. Is. Secondary. Now a king with many key not just their expense, but also their competing needs and The more complicated the social the more able a rival is to sway a critical mass. The more key supporters a ruler has on average, the shorter their reign. Which brings us to the third rule for rulers. Minimize key supporters. If a key in your court becomes unnecessary, his skills no longer required, you must kick him out. After a successful coup, the new dictator will purge some of those who helped him come to power, while working with the underlings which, from the outside, seems a terrible idea. Why abandon your fellow revolutionaries? Are the old dictator's supporters not a danger? But the keys necessary to gain power are not the same as those needed to keep it. Having someone on the payroll but useless now, is the same as spending money on the citizens. Treasure wasted on the irrelevant. And by definition, a dictator has promised greater treasure The size of the vault has not changed, so the treasure must be split among fewer. A dictator that sways the right cuts unnecessary spending, kills unnecessary keys, will have a long and successful career. Seeing the structure unveiled, you might be excited to get started and control a country to the or you might be exhausted, wishing to do good, but seeing the structural difficulties, now turn to democracy for salvation. So let us discuss Rulers as Representatives. [pensive music plays] You again might have grand dreams but, no man rules alone, and never more so than in democracy. Presidents and Prime ministers must negotiate with their senates and parliaments, and vice versa. And they all have their own In a well-designed democracy, power is fractured among many, and is taken not with force but with words, meaning you must get thousands or millions of citizens to, if not like you on election day, at least like you better than the alternative. With so many voters and such fractured power it's impossible to, as a dictator would, follow Or is it? Of course not. Don't think of citizens as individuals but instead as divided into blocks: the elderly, or homeowners, or business owners, or the poor. Blocks you can reward as a group. Democracies have wildly not as accident but as reward the ruling representatives in power. Farming subsidies, for example, have nothing to do with the food a nation needs, but entirely with how key the Countries where farmers' don't have farming subsidies. If a block doesn't vote, such as younger citizens, then no need to divert rewards their way. Even if large in number, they are irrelevant to gaining power. Which, is good news for you. One less block to sway and the treasure you give your key blocks If you want long years in office, rule three is your friend in a democracy You can't eliminate those who don't vote for you, but there is still much you can do. Once in power, make it easier for your key blocks to vote and harder for others. Establish voting systems that reduce the number of blocks you need to win, the more rivals you get, very handy indeed. Draw election borders to predetermine the results for you or your cronies, and have party pre-elections with Byzantine rules to determine who blocks even can vote for. Mix and match the above for When approval ratings couldn't be lower, yet re-election rates couldn't be higher, you'll know you've succeeded. Now, enough with thinking about the citizens. Even in a democracy there still are very influential individual key because their money, or influence, or favors keeps you in power. While you can't just promise as a dictator would, you can create loopholes for their investments, pass laws that they've written, or print "Get out of Jail Not a wheelbarrow of gold to the door, but contracts for their business. You as ruler do have roads to build, or computers to maintain, or buildings to reconstruct. No man rules alone, after all. Or you could take the moral path, and ignore the big keys. But you'll fight against those who didn't. Good luck with that. Corruption is not some kind of petty crime, but rather a tool of power, in democracies and dictatorships, but more on that another time. So, accept the favors, sway the key blocks and you will get into power, ruling with actions that to those who don't understand the game. Privately helping a powerful industry you publicly denounced, or passing laws that hurt But your job isn't to have a consistent but to balance the interests of That is how you stay in office. Now with all this headache you may wonder, looking at rule three why block-building, favor-trading nonsense, and just bribe the army to take power? We must finally turn to Taxes and Revolts. [grim music plays] You must understand rule two and used to hold a country together. If we graph the tax rate of countries versus the number of key supporters the ruler needs, there's a clear relationship. More democracy, lower taxes. If you're sitting comfortably in a but your fellow citizens who don't earn enough, don't pay income taxes and get rebates, bringing the average tax rate down. In dictatorships, this doesn't happen. Dictatorships often forgo tax paperwork in favor of just taking wealth directly. It's common for the dictator to force farmers to sell their produce to him for little, then turn around and sell it on the open market, pocketing the difference at an So, taxes in democracies are low But why do representatives lower their take? Well, cutting taxes is a crowd pleaser. Dictators have no need to can take a large percentage to pay key supporters. But representatives in a democracy from each to pay their key supporters, because their educated, freer citizens are more productive than peasants. For rulers in a democracy, the more productivity the better. Which is why they build and roads, and grant freedoms, not just out of the goodness of their hearts but because it increases citizen productiveness, which increases treasure for the even when a lower percentage is taken. Democracies are better places not because representatives are better people, but because their needs happen to be aligned with a large portion of the population. The things that make citizens more productive also make their lives better. Representatives want everyone productive, so everyone gets highways. The worst dictators are those whose incentives are aligned with the fewest citizens, those who have the fewest keys to power. This explains why the worst Gold, or oil, or diamonds, or similar. If the wealth of a nation is it's a terrible place to live because a gold mine can run with dying slaves, and still produce great treasure. Oil is harder, but luckily foreign companies without any citizen involvement. With citizens outside this cycle, they can be ignored, while the ruler is rewarded and the keys to power kept loyal. Thus, we live in a world where the best, smartest democracies are stable, the worst, richest dictatorships are stable, and in between is a valley of revolution. The resource-rich dictators build roads only from their ports to their resources, and from their palace to the airport, and the people stay quiet not because this is fine or even because they're scared, but because the cold truth is starving, disconnected, illiterates don't make good revolutionaries. Now, a middling dictator without resources must, as mentioned before, take a large amount of wealth directly from his poor farmers and factory workers. Thus, two roads won't do, and so he must maintain some But keeping the work-force somewhat connected and somewhat educated and somewhat healthy makes them more able to revolt. Now understand, the romantic image of the people storming the gates and overthrowing their If you run a middling dictatorship, the people only storm the palace when the army lets them, to remove you, because you lost control over your keys and are being replaced. This is why after popular revolts the new ruler is often the The people didn't replace the king, the court replaced the king, using the peoples' protest The very things a benevolent dictator take treasure away from the keys to power, and make the citizens more able to revolt, often ending in a stronger ruler less likely to build bridges and more loyal to his keys. On the other side, the best not just because the large number makes dictatorial revolt but also because the revolt would destroy the very wealth it intended to capture, the high productivity of the citizens. Plus, those helping the know he plans to cull key That's what's a coup is. So potential key supporters of surviving the cull and getting the rewards, versus the risk of being on the outside of a dictatorship they helped create. In a stable democracy, that's a terrible gamble. Maybe you'll be incredibly wealthy, but probably you'll be dead and have made the lives of The math says no. Being on the right side of a having the resources to get you and health care, education, quality of life. This is what make the But in a democracy most already So, the more the wealth of a nation comes from the productive citizens of the nation, the more the power gets spread out, and the more the ruler must maintain the quality of life for those citizens. The less, the less. Now if a stable democracy becomes very poor, or if a resource that dwarfs the productivity the odds of this gamble change, and make it more possible for Because if the current or the wealth not dependent on the citizens, coups are worth the risk. When democracies fall, these are usually the reasons. [somber music plays] These rules for rulers explain not only why some men are monsters and others are merciful, but everything about politics. From war, to foreign aid, to political dynasties, to corruption. All of which, we can talk about at another time. But for now, you aspiring ruler, may be disgusted by the world of politics, and have decided to avoid it entirely, but you cannot, for rulers come in many forms. Yes, kings, presidents and prime ministers, but also deans, dons, mayors, chairs, chiefs. These rules apply to all From the CEO of the largest who must keep his board happy, to the chair of the smallest home owner's association, managing votes and spending membership fees. You cannot escape structures of power. You can only turn a blind and if you ever want the change you dream about, there is a zeroth rule you cannot ignore. Without power you can affect nothing. You may not like these rules, but surely, better you on the throne than someone else. And who knows, maybe, you'll be different. [somber music, slowly fades]