- Hi, it's me, Tim Dodd, Welcome to Cape Canaveral, Florida. I'm here at Blue Origin's factory and I'm going to do a I'm gonna take you inside We're gonna see their next of the largest rockets ever made. And we're going to see and we're gonna see the landing legs, we're gonna see the the engines, the fairings. We're gonna see everything for its first launch ever. And stick around for part two where I'm gonna take you where you're going to see where New Glenn's gonna be launching from. It's incredible. And best of all, we've guide, Jeff Bezos. Let's get started. Hello. I'm doing alright. Hey, So nice to meet you. I really, I mean, what a, what - Yeah. Brings back incredible memories. - Yeah, of course. I'm sure, I'm sure. What a remind me is this the, this is the first one you guys landed, if I recall right? Yeah, that's right. - But I think this one's flown five times, six times. I can't remember. - Yeah, it was a handful of times, which is crazy. And now it's just a, - Yeah. And of course it fits easily - That's the craziest thing about it. That's insane to think about. 'cause No, it's, I don't think even though this is a I mean, it's still huge. It's still huge. And Yeah, yeah. Yeah. - It's, it's a very, like the, the ring fan, even there are a lot. This is, it's a very clever design. This vehicle is very unusual. 'cause it has to fly in It flies up and it flies down. And it has to be aerodynamically And so that ring fin is because it's shielded on the way up - Yep. - By the crew capsule. Yeah. And when the crew capsule separates that re fin becomes a descent only aerodynamic feature. Yeah. - Yeah. So, and then also you have, 'cause you have the popup fins at the top of the ring that - That's for additional Then there also are drag brakes Yep. That basically are there to make the ballistic for the propulsive landing. Right. Right. So it makes lower, much lower. Yeah. - Yeah. And then these are the, Yeah. So, you know, you go up and we actually, we do something we measure using just inertial navigation. And, and so we can measure the high altitude winds how we're steering the vehicle. Yeah. And we know where the And so we can impute and then we adjust for those on ascent so that when we come down, the high altitude winds will blow us directly over the landing pad. No way. - And then, and that but then the remaining error that we can fly over the landing pad. Yeah. And then the, the final you know, terminal descent maneuver. So anyway, there's a lot going on. The fact that something like that math works. Yeah. Do you wanna go in? I do. I do. But I have to check out. I I, I try to save it. 'cause I saw and I have to have you, - There are so many objects. I don't know if you've ever - It's been about five years. Yeah. But I have been out there. Yeah. - Well, you know, as you can of their umbilical panels. And so it's just, I, we over Blue Origin. It's kind of inspiring and, you know, how they made things. What did, if you ever look at of the, a lot of rocketry was figured Right. We've improved We've improved sensors and computation. They wouldn't even with flight computers and sensors. And so they'd be blown But the big things about common bulkheads, you know, all these things they invented Right. Are, you know, they They haven't really changed. So our job today is not to do better than they It's to make it more affordable. So, you know, spaceflight was has been a solved problem for a long time. Right. The thing that's not - Right. Interesting. And, you know, that's about reusability and manufacturing - Yeah. Yeah. It's just, - I know, man, - You're a space buff. and see a X-33 umbilical, This is really cool. Well, sometime - You'll have to get a tour of, of our, our Kent headquarters too. And you'll see there's lots - Of, lots of cool artifacts - We go mic on Jeff. - Yeah. You, I think I - I I think you, of all - I think I pulled one of these up off the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean, actually. - That is the craziest thing anyone can say. Genuinely. - In the Smithsonian now. Yes. And so it's an I was sitting in my living room one day and I said, you know, I wonder if you could find sitting on the bottom And I went to Google and I typed in Apollo 11 And they popped up. all the way to impact. Right. And so I thought, this is gonna be the easiest I'm gonna go recover That was the only part of it that was easy. - It turned out to be incredibly hard. We did side scanning sonar first, and we located, the problem is Really? So it's like NASA's you know, all this stuff Most of it, there's like a big 30 mile long pretty similar corridor there. - Yeah. Very similar corridor. And so we found some things that we thought were very likely, and then we had to go investigate them. So we put together a big mission with remotely operated vehicles And it's in 14,000 feet So everything you do in those environments is very difficult. But it was actually incredibly fun. I brought my mom and my dad and my brother and my brother-in-Law. And, and my mom, there where we recovered the and one woman, my mom. - That's awesome. So anyway, it took, it took a full month. We were out at sea for And pulled up those engines. And that now that Apollo 11 F1 men to the moon is literally - Of that. That is the cool. And that I don't think people even appreciate. Like, I, I barely know that - I don't think many - I mean, you, you - Go go to the Smithsonian and see it. It's an incredible artifact. Did you used to have it at the Air - I also pulled up a to be from Apollo 13. That one is in Seattle. Oh. So the Apollo 11 one and it just went on You know, they've been refurbishing the Air and Space Museum. Yes. And so it's, it's there now. It's part of the permanent It's next to, they've because they've set it up Oh, cool. So you can see, and an unflown one in pristine condition because of course, you know, bottom of the ocean, it's eroded and You know, it impacted the It got crushed. Yeah. There's all kind the, you the nozzle is very fragile. Right. So, you know, it's - Just, it's paper thin, I mean, it's these tiny little I mean, it's a work of - Yeah. Anyway, you wanna go inside? Yeah. - We better see what Yeah. That is so - Cool. It's fun to pick up engines but it's even more fun to build rockets - Build up. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I don't think too many Yeah. What'd you do on holiday? and grabbed some engines - All right. - So I'm gonna take you and you know, feel free to Let's go, I'll start. We'll start down here and I'll show you some of how we make the tanks. Okay. And then we'll just, Oh, hey, I gotta, I gotta just scope this already. We'll come back here too. We'll come back. Okay. But - Yeah, but, but feel free. Oh, it's huge. - Yeah. You know, you see pictures and- - It's hard to tell the scale of things in person is always surprising. Yeah. And the first time or development article, You know, you see it in CAD and it always looks the same size. Yeah. It's always the size - Exactly. And I think even when you see a picture you don't have a normal scale of reference to the size of the factory even. No. So your eyes just how big things truly are. When you say it's seven meters That doesn't translate. You know, - We can go this way. We'll walk, we'll do the narrow path. This is where we make the tanks. Okay. And that probably obvious - Geez, - Watch these little things. Wow. You can see inside here you can see the ortho grid. Yep. Geez. This is a GS1, Glenn Stage One. The booster stage. For the booster. Okay. And actually this outlet this is the common dome. Okay. So this dome separates This is the down comer. Okay. So the LNG comes down through Yep. So what's about to barrel section of the LOx tank is about to be friction stir welded onto this. So the common dome just got, you know, we just finished friction That's the friction stir This rotates at a certain rate, you know, you develop weld schedules and so on. And this, the domes are see the isogrid that is spun formed. And then these gore panels to increase the diameter of the dome. And so anyway, this is a very high performance And especially because it's to reuse all that high performance. You're not building this incredibly high performing thing and Throw it away to by someone 50 years later. Exactly. Perfect. - Well that's what's so cool. I mean, you can tell just you guys this is at a very finished standpoint. I mean, even your, what the a piece of art. I mean, - It's, it all it, a does look like art. Like art. Yeah. Because going for function. Right. But there's something that last 1% of function, it - Yeah. Geometry is kind Highly engineered objects - Yeah. Oh, that's really So and so, so that's gonna be friction star welded - Yeah. So this is you can see they're rigging this, you can see it's getting rigged It'll be moved over here and then it gets, you know, press up against this. Yeah. - We'll, - We'll trim it to Make sure they're completely parallel. And then once they're trimmed and in location clamped together, then that friction stir welding Yeah. And then, then it'll to make sure that weld is good and then goes on to the keep adding the rings to, to You just keep adding And so the barrel section The barrel sections are made over here. So this is where the We have two of these stations. Okay. But these are where So each of these panels is I can show you where the panels are made. But each of these panels are milled and then bump formed. And then they're welded And then they're attached to each other horizontally - So the, I know there's kind of the top of this just - To be, technically that's orthogrid. Orthogrid. The isogrid is the one that is triangles. Right? Right. The - Orthogrid is rectangles, is orthogrid. And the orthogrid is way better because the orthogrid is And also you can bump form orthogrid. You can, I'll show you the, i'll, I can show you in the other room. Isogrid, you really have with like a five axis machine after it's already been formed. Okay. You can't really - Right. Yeah. of isogrid is it's very high performing. Especially if you're taking directions. Yeah. Makes sense. This is, this is a huge - This is, oh, this is a huge This is massive. You see it to like the visitor center and stuff, which is actually really cool when you're, it's really cool when the public can just drive right by and see it. We're - Like right next to the - But then when you're another thing altogether. - This is where we're, you the, the gore panels to the spun dome. Oh, okay. - You can see it happening here too. Yep. Wow. All these little, by the - Yep. - Lets you do metrology. So you can, there's, you can it just looks at this and because it has all these it can look at the, you can to look at these parts and - So it's like a QR code for every piece. I mean, they're not you, by the way, these are not put on carefully. You can put these stickers everywhere. You know, you don't have to put You can just put 'em anywhere. In fact, you're counting on some randomization so that the machine vision - And just, oh. And it just catalogs it at the beginning. It just looks at it and it knows of those dots is. And then it could just tell you can go look at the CAD and you can see is this dot, does it match what the CAD says it should be? - Wait, so are they just - Stickers, they're decal, No. And it doesn't matter where you put them. Do those have to have to have remove before flight? Not necessarily. - Depends on what, what You know, in our case, protection over this. Right. It's kind of it, I don't know if we remove them or not. Actually. We can find out. - For some reason the stickers on the- Isn't that cool? It's just random and cool. It's such a clever, clever way to do it. Alright, I'm gonna give We're gonna go up. Oh, let you, I'm gonna a hydrogen tank. Oh, yes. So this is a This is a GS2 hydrogen tank. Okay. And so we're gonna go up these stairs and it's- What we're doing right now helium bottles Yep. Inside the hydrogen tank. Oh, awesome. We might have to Hey guys, sir, So we've got a little We wanna keep the inside And we're just going to, we'll get, we'll put a little suit on. We'll be able to go inside the airlock, and then you can poke your head in. Cool. And what you'll see you'll see the whole tank. A lot of it is covered up in plastic, but you'll still be able to see. And then the, and, and you'll see the Cool. Yeah. - I think this is only the second or third time I've ever actually - If you wanna take a seat, - I think I'm already in You're good. I'm a pro for those, - Very coordinated over there, Tim. Okay. Not many people have seen - I know. And it's a, it's a big one when you think about it. It is. The only LH2 you tank that has ever been bigger is - That's right. And, and Right. It doesn't go into orbit. - Into orbit. Yeah. So, yeah. And even when you think about what was that six? That might have been But this is a much larger - Yes. All right. As we walk in, I'll do - Just step on the mat. Okay. - You can walk in. Holy crap. - Watch your eyes. It'll be bright. We're gonna, Whoa. That is sick. Could have to this light. Yeah. You could have to eclipse it. Yeah. - I think I might have Come over here. Okay. Up on Do you see the helium bottles? - Yeah. - Yep, we got it. You got it? Yep. That is, two more down here on the bottom. - Yeah. And I mean, basically around, but there, there's a, a number of 'em still to be installed. - And so they just climbed - And you can see the orthogrid. - That is awesome. And so this is the, is this - Yes. And that is the, and then Okay. So when it's I guess it Yeah. As it's under acceleration, the bottles will stay as much Yes, correct. Oh yeah, that's, I think that's better. - Wow. That's a little better. So we got the whole bulkhead here that we're poking our head into. And then the on top of like the fairing adapter and top of, basically on - Exactly. will slosh baffles, do they have to be- - Yes. Built in here too? There are some, there are some baffles too. I'm not the, but you have to remember lot of that job for you. So the baffles are actually more because there's, the Oh, right. Remember LH2, you know, light - So a cubic foot of liquid hydrogen only weighs 4.4 pounds. Oh my gosh. Yeah. A cubic foot of liquid hydrogen only weighs 4.4 pounds. That's crazy. So, you or LOx probably weighs 60 plus pounds. - Right. - So, you know, you Picture a bucket that's like Right. It's heavy. It's - Heavy. Yeah. - And you know, you pick up a or the same size, it's incredibly light. That's crazy. And so slosh with liquid hydrogen is not a very major, it's not a major issue. Yeah. It doesn't have as much, Like you don't want, you know, So if you have, you need to what, where you're the sump, where you're, you collecting the last Oh yeah. You don't want Because you might, it might Yeah. And so, which would, to get good utilization if Yeah. So you do have to to make sure you can Yep. But typically with - That's crazy. Thank you. I really appreciate it. Yeah, - Thank you. It was awesome. That was great. - That's a, that's a, that's a good ride right there. Thank you. - You have a good one. Thank you. - We can keep heading this way. - Cool. And I'm already seeing the aft end. This is second stage, right? That's right. So this is, this is, this is Oh. This is the second stage that will take Escapade to space a little later this year. No way. That is awesome. So this is, that's your first orbital second stage right there. That's it. - That's it. And in fact, the engines are, the flight engines are in this building. I'll show them to you a You can see, we saw, that's the flight article for the aft section of GS1. So that's the aft section The engines get mounted. Seven BE4 engines - Geez. - Oh, that's, yeah. - This is the forward So the on top of that- Sorry, the forward section of GS1 of the booster. Okay. So basically that's Yep, yep. That's the - And in between is basically the big tank, the big GS1 tank. And I'll show you the It's in a different - So, but these are flight articles. These are, these are mission And what you see that the, the fabric covering is Oh, cool. So we developed that ourselves and it's highly reusable. It's been tested on New Shepherd. This vehicle comes in at Mach 6 and goes through some quite extreme heating environments. We have, we have developed reusable thermal protection system that doesn't need to be touched up. So we're really excited about that. It's part of that path to but operable reusability. Right, right. It's through low This vehicle is designed to Really? 16 days. - Oh my gosh. That would be game changing. - That's what, that's the design. Wow. And, and designed to last Wow. So I'm hoping it, it we'd like to get to at least a hundred, but starting with a design for 25. So, wow. You know, we can go. - So that finish is what we're gonna see. Like that's, or it, does - It might, it, it But that is the, that is is that's the thermal material. So we, they're doing so we can't get too close. But this is, we can still look at things pretty well from here. You see the landing gear, there And you can see the landing gear doors. The landing gear deploy starting 14 seconds from landing, they deploy, takes them eight seconds to deploy. Okay. So they're fully deployed Okay. The deployment is gravity assisted because you're decelerating. Yep. So you've got good gravity assist on the gear deployment. There's a lot of effort that lightweight, you know, Right. Relative to an So this, we've learned a lot and we're able to take those So the six landing gear and six landing gear. Your mass trade is kind of, even when you have more landing to get the same tip over. Yep. So if you, you're designing probability of tip over, and if you have, let's say, you have three landing to get the same probability to have very big landing gear. Yeah. They have very wide split. Yep. If you have four, they If you have five, they can Six, they come in a So you're trading that, because geometrically it fits really well with a seven engine configuration. Yes. Yep. So you've got a landing gear between every engine. Yep. You, you've got the center engine and Yep. And you can, they, it just, it just packages. Well, well, makes complete sense. Anyway, the aft section So the engines fit up inside there, and then there's a heat shield that where each engine has Same technique we use on - And now when the legs are gonna be six seconds before landing. Are we expecting to see New Glenn kinda hover in New Shepherd or- Yes. And then kind of hone it We can do sustained Okay. So the engines, the BE4 engine can Yep. And the, so the final landing you know, a Right. Which is what New Shepherd does. - Yes. And it's, and then and the total throttle you're already dividing by So you're really down to like- - So there are three and four fixed engines that don't gimbal. Interesting. - So there's a line For the return, we to do the full deceleration. Okay. And then we do the final - Okay. Cool. - So the vehicle, as you it starts out very heavy, right? Yes. Because it's got, you and oxidizer on board. Right. - Right. By the time you land, And so, you know, the, of this whole vehicle is only a few Right. You've already gotten You've gotten rid of the second stage and you've gotten rid of all the fuel. Yeah. So you actually have that needs to land. And actually to go down to just a single engine Yep. And then throttle that engine to get to thrust weight equals one, but it gives you a lot of control authority on the landing. Right, - Right. And are you doing a, so you're, you're doing it always a landing on- We're gonna platform down range. Okay. We're not doing any We might do that later, but it's a very big performance penalty. Yeah. And if you are, but, which is, but it's still a smart thing to do if you have a particular mission. Doesn't need the performance. And so initially we're not gonna do that. We're gonna do all of our a floating platform. But maybe we will do later, with return to launch site if it makes economic sense. Right. - Do you have to do an - We do an exoatmospheric Okay. And then we do a Yep. The exoatmospheric deceleration burn is actually very short. And we get, so we have big And so the vehicle's ballistic including the strakes, fuel efficient. And so we did this, we and the strakes always Oh yeah. Because the landing Right. And so anything you of the exoatmospheric burn. Right. Turns out to be a winner. Turns out to win out And then at a certain point And so you'll see I you'll see the, one of the strakes later. Yeah. On the mid, on the mid But anyway, it's a very, We're close. We need to understand our which we'll start to do Yep. We wanna learn whatever through simulation and but there's some things you Right. And the final environments Yeah. So in the beginning you have to estimate your flight entry rates, et cetera, et cetera. You can do a pretty good couldn't do that in the sixties. Right. So there are some things that A hundred percent. You know, - Jeez. Monte Carlo. - Oh, everything, anything that has gotten way better. Yeah. So you can do a very good job, but then, but you have to have, you have air bounds. You basically have to design the vehicle for the conservative And then once you fly anchor your models, tighten things back up. Yeah. And so we'll be able to see after the first flight, how, you know, where you came in at kind of, and where, how long is that Cool. Does it even have to happen? Cool. Can we change the thermal to get rid of it all together? Yeah. 'cause it will improvement to get rid if you can. That's cool. - Let's see. Let's keep walking. Yeah. I take you over to the forward. - Oh, I, the one's completely cantered. It can swivel 90 degrees if it needs to - The fin or is that just for- - The operating range is 60 degrees. - 60 degrees. Okay. So that's just probably installation there or something. - Yeah. The operating is 60 degrees, - Which is a lot for a control surface. And these fins move fast. Really? They're, these are the, these are the largest hydraulic actuators probably I think ever. They're five times bigger. I, I'll show them to They're five times bigger than the actuators used on the Shuttle SRB thrust vector control system. Really? Yeah. They're giant. Well, because you really wanna because you, you want to be able to move them very book and you don't want to be moving though, you know, they're gonna be reacting The last thing you want is for those to torque one out of alignment. Oh, this is awesome. We'll keep going up. I can point a few things out Holy crap. - So flight computers. - Oh, everything is one fault operative on New Glenn. Okay. - You have some redundancy. - We have redundancy. so the big fins, that's the pivot point. - Wow. the fin, the torque box. - Wow. Here's another. So now we're up above, that's the pivot point down there. Yep. This is the, that's the That rotates the fin. Wow. Isn't that incredible? - That's insane. - That's big. - It's really big. Wow. And so there are, there are four of those. Four of 'em. Yeah. That is crazy. And these are our nitrogen or hydrogen bottles there and probably for RCS and That's exactly right. These are nitrogen pressure in bottles. So where we are standing, these are the RCS. Oh, cool. - Okay. Where we are standing above us will be the second stage. - Second stage. because the giant space nozzles for the BE3U engines fit in here, - Fit right there. That is crazy. Wow. It gives you a sense of You know, when we're standing here and yet the nozzle's gonna be, you know, - Yes. Basically the engines are right here. - Yeah. Yeah. The heart and the nozzles that right down - There, that's, and these, you'll see - Oh, the interstate push rods. Those are the pushers. Very good. Wow. - They're so big. Yeah. - I don't, yeah. And so where this green, you see this green tooling up here? That of course is just the second stage gets Okay. - Yep. And then these are looks like some, - These are the, this all Oh. And so you have to to keep the RCS propellant - Yep. Get that gas up to And so you have a quad thruster Wow. That's, these are just huge. - The scale of - And so there's gonna be, we, I'll have to take a look at this now So we got a tandem pair here. - Yeah. And then just, It's just not, it's of 'em are just not Wow. So this thing's gonna with thrusters galore. - That helps. That helps for Right. The RCS system can So you're basically you've got thrust vector to control the base of the vehicle. Yep. But you can also control - Helps you be able to do kind Correct. Correct. It's doing a vertical landing is like, is an inverted pendulum problem. So you're balancing a pencil or a broom stick, on And actually this is one, rockets love to be big in a bunch of ways. There's a lot of advantages. One big disadvantage to a large rocket is Right. But, but there to a large rocket parasitic mass doesn't matter as much. Rotating 'cause they have parasitic A lot of advantages. Vertical because it's easier to balance You can balance on the tip of your finger. Try doing that with a pencil You can't do it. And the reason is that the inertia slows everything down. So it's much easier with something that has high inertia to balance it. Yep. But if you can use of the vehicle, you, the you can't quite do this But if you imagine trying of your finger, if you could - Right. Right. You're cheating at that point. Yeah. The problem gets a So to some degree you can do that. And of course what you're really trying to do is you do need quite a that terminal landing because you don't know what Right. You get a lot of disturbances. You need to react to some of those. You need to be able to to unpredictable disturbances. This is why landing on is actually easier. You have, it's much harder For example, you don't have You have craters and boulders and things that, you know, landing surface that makes it harder. But the fact that you have no aerodynamic disturbances makes it easier. - Especially with - Yes. Correct. What we, the hard to model on a lunar, we don't know. It's very hard to model with your own propulsion Yeah. So I'm not, it's a very difficult problem, but it's a different problem. - Different problem. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. - Trying to think what I guess that's it. You - Sure. - Yeah. This is, I - Don't have to tell me twice. This is awesome. - Look at, this is an And this is the actuator that opens the door, you know, So you know, you basically want, so the, you know, when you lift off the door closes. Oh cool. To protect these so that - I'm ready for the next have to worry about if - Expendable. Yeah. That is cool. It's like Willy Wonka's It's like one thing, one room after another of magical surprises. I'm excited to show you the composite bay. This is where we build the and it's such an incredible technology. But first let's look at that can show you've seen Yep. Now I'm gonna show you - Okay. CNCed into those... - Orthogrid. Orthogrid. Correct. Thank you. Yep. - Oh, thank you. Yeah. Hi there. - Hey, how's it going? Good, thank you. So this is the finished product. The way this works is you while the plate is flat. - Okay. is called a bump forming machine. - Okay. after you've milled it, and there's a big hydraulic And as you bump it, it curves, it rolls, it rolls like this. And so you end up with And it's much more efficient than trying to mill it in this shape. Oh, right. You machine this, you need a five axis mill if you already round. - Yeah. No, thank you. Milling it while it's like this - I can imagine - Right, So in fact that big stack, Cool. This straight raw, that's Okay. - So it's pretty, it's as and then youre taking the - We actually take a thin layer Okay. Just to relieve some of the strain that ends up digging in manufacturing process. Okay. Just take a thin layer And then mill all those pockets. - Okay. Okay. - Do you have any idea, like how much does one of those looks- - I don't know, I don't know that weight. I mean and of course we removed - That's what I was gonna say. - But for GS2, we're we're gonna get rid of the orthogrid because we found enough that we don't need the Really. So if we're because GS1 is reusable. Right. Right. So, you know, to it makes more economic to go for the extra performance. Yep. Because that cost of, gets be amortized over 25 like GS2, the math changes and since we're gonna throw it away after every flight, the second stage. Yep. Yep. We want to have, and we've figured out how to save. There's, it's only, the mass penalty for going Okay. And the cost savings - It's a trade benefit. - It's a cost versus performance trade. And we've found performance For example, the BE3U engine is coming in at 172,000 pounds Oh wow. So we did- our requirement was 160. The team did an amazing job. Wow. It's really turning I'm gonna show you in a minute. we can switch to monocoque for GS2 and keep ortho grid for GS1. Yep. And that's a good trade. Yeah. Reusability expandability. Yep. We're also working on a And we're gonna let that be a horse race. So the, the goal for the so cheap to manufacture that Awesome. And the goal for the so operable that exp And so it's, and we will see because when you do that trade on paper, it just isn't obvious. Right. Right. On the first stage Right, right, right. Yeah. the cost. - It's lowest It's everything lines up For the second stage, it's an interesting horse race. Yeah. So we're just gonna go And try to figure out which And 'cause it's just about cost. - At the end of the day. Yeah. At the end of the - Are where you actually at in terms of that second stage, the We're doing all like thermal. We have a design we have, and we're doing lots of protection systems. Okay. Okay. And that's, by the way, there's also an and stainless. So because of the of stainless, it's possible for it to trade better than aluminum. Right. For a reusable 'cause it, it gives you some But it doesn't give you, it's not, it's, it's not totally obvious because you still have and if those work correctly, to the aluminum just because, you know, you can get better thermal structural mass properties with the aluminum. Exactly. - The space shuttle, you know, - It's, yeah. You know, so it's, that's. That one is a very that one is an interesting trade and you kinda have to work both. It turns into a lot of practical issues. Again, most of these interesting trades, you cannot decide at the conceptual level. - Right. Right. fine grained level. Right. There's little details to manufacture, you know, - Which, which is easier - Little things. Yeah. So you love the trades - You do the trade, it's like, &quot;oh, duh&quot;. - Those are great trades. And then, but a lot of them You know, it's not clear and the little practical issues are gonna dominate. Right. Does that make sense? And they might not rear their head until you're three years down the road. They - They never do. Yeah. They're like, because they're at that fine level of detail. Right. So - Again, you're talking about the modeling earlier of reentry. It's probably a similar Like the models can get you and the paperwork can get you so far, but until actually start doing it- - It's about the practicalities of things like thermal protection systems and are they actually operable? You know, how much et cetera, et cetera. - Yeah. That makes sense. That's cool. We'll keep moving. Cool. - This is just- I normally tell like when I go and see a rocket factory don't worry about showing every CNC machine looks the same until you walk into a room like this. And it's an entire building is one, is one machine. And it's like, oh, - By - The way, it's a - You should see our that you have to go there someday. That's in Huntsville. Yeah. We're not gonna see that But in another, another time perhaps. But that is, from a CNC point that's incredible. Oh, I'll bet. When you guys are ramping up BE4 production looks like it's starting to really ramp up here. - It is. Next year we'll be building Really? Yeah. And we've already got two Vulcan and a third ship set Wow. - And the New Glenn engines this first flight. Thank you. Now we'll head to composites. Cool. I'm very impressed by this technology. This is a technology that would impress the Apollo engineers. Oh, for sure. Have you ever seen a big carbon fiber tape laying machine. - I just saw a decent sized one. I think it was like two, like probably two meters And it was pretty, you know, And I'd never actually been I've seen like video of like the 787. Yeah. You know, machine and - Yeah. This will be kind of - That's crazy. It's mesmerizing. - It really is. Come on in. Hey, how are you? Good, thank you. - How you doing A great job. thank you. Appreciate - Appreciate. I've been in - Really appreciate that. - I'll tell you now, United Technologies, I worked for all three for more than 10 years. It's the best company I ever worked for. - I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you for taking the - This is still will be my last job. - All right. I don't have Thank you. That's so nice. - What a sweet thing to say. - That's awesome. And that and now I'll slip in - I like, I didn't even - I love that. That's a good sign. So we build the fairings here, the big carbon composite fairings. Yep. And we build the This is the Escapade payload This is the actual flight article. So you know this, it basically So the payload sits on and then it distributes the of the GS2 tank. - Yep. Yep. Because the load It has to get transferred So you have to spread that load out to get it to the periphery. And, you know, Escapade is, for Escapade, but it's a Yeah. And you know we have to hit that Mars window. Yes. - Coming, coming right up. Yeah, - That is coming right up. - I want to go and show This is the big oven. So after you manufacture the at temperature. And that's the big oven where We do non-destructive after it's finished. Okay. We use ultrasound to look for imperfections. - This is gonna be good through here because gives scale. - I know it's hard. Like my brain did one of those things where it's like, &quot;oh yeah&quot;. And there's like, &quot;OH YEAH,&quot; - It's a big oven. - That's a huge oven. - Come on in. - Thank you. - I'm gonna take you because that's the best viewing area. - We're building And so that is the head If you go down, you'll see the, the tape dispensers down there, which we can see on the way out. You can peek at it. But basically the head travels in a machine program programmatically lays tape. Yeah. Little narrow carbon fiber tape. And it just builds up the entire... - There it's starting to move. I to see it do its thing or not, - Just layer by layer. - Just layer by layer in a And you know, carbon fiber has strength in only one direction. Yeah. So what you do is you understand all of your loads and then you design it. So you're, some of the diagonal, you'll lay Yep. And so, but you 'cause your loads aren't equal. So you can make a material It can be designed so Change places with me, - Oh, that's cool. So does it as it's laying or- - That's for the glue. Oh, cool. So the tape has, the tape comes, has, has glue on it. So that's why it sticks. - Got it. - Wow. Isn't that incredible? - That's satisfying. And does this do like a, is like an aluminum core inside the fairing or - There is a structure inside it too. Isn't that incredible? - That's insane. That's really I can watch- You 'cause honestly, I'd and watch this all day. Like just meditation almost. - You know, it's, it's incredible. Oh that's cool. And you can, we make on the It's very versatile. So we make the payload adapters here on the same machine, it's just a different tool. Cool. It's a different tool But it's just as versatile as like a CNC milling machine would be. - Yeah. Yeah. It's like a CNC - Correct. - Yeah. Yeah. And it's So what, you know, we're doing this and we have repair methodologies, but we don't have to use them very often 'cause it's a very, very repeatable process. Yeah. That's what you're always looking for when you get to production. Oh right. You need the process Which by the way is what you need when you're packages a year too. Yeah. You need a repeatable process. - Yeah, you do. I promise you the Apollo by this. Oh yeah. Oh, they would love this. - Alright. Engine prep? Yeah. I know you like engines. I love engines. And I know you know something about them. This will be a treat for you, I promise. - Oh, I don't know. I don't know what it is - Don't you love this giant thing moving. I mean, again, it's hard to get the scale of this. - Right? I mean - It is massive. Yeah. - You can see the, the pod. That's all of the, the various carbon tape inside that. And then you can set up and it can exchange pods. That's crazy. So you keep - And so you can see all the tape. That's cool. See all the tape satisfying. That's incredible. - These are giant objects. Yes. - What I think a lot of so far the public has really and they think of a and they're just gonna be blindsided. I don't think the average how big New Glenn is and how just total like, you know, orders of magnitude bigger. - I'm sure you're right. - It's crazy. What I love about New to prove out so many technologies - Absolutely. - That you're actually, I that you're able to, to basically using a test bed Exactly. And by the way, that is how business works, right? You like, your customers use your services and that gives you repetition to improve your services. By the way, I don't know but we have four GS1s for booster stages in process right here. Like you can see, I showed you the one, but here's another one. There's another one over there. There are four in process right now. - How big is the - Well, we're gonna produce Really? So we're just gonna We're gonna You have to have a rate. Yeah. You could just say we're gonna produce a certain number and then stop. Right? You want to Okay. Oh yeah. Going in to see Oh yeah. - This is the good stuff. - These are the, the flight BE3Us. So these are the LH2, LOx engines that will power the second stage. This is for the first mission. So these are the Escapade engines. Wow. - They're bigger than you - Three. And, but, and keep in mind these, the, the vacuum nozzle isn't here yet. That's huge. Because we're gonna, we install these, then we do a hot fire Yep. At sea level. Yep. And you can't have the, for the sea level firing. Yep. Then we'll put the, we'll put the Vacuum skirts on. The They dominate the whole engines. Vacuum engines are always Because they, they have - Yeah. But it looks like they're, I didn't realize- do you mind if Absolutely. Look around a little bit. We're gonna get outta your way. keep doing whatever you're doing to let us bother you. - Thank you. It's cool that everyone signed their names on it. Yeah. We signed all that. I signed over there too. That's awesome. - That's so cool. So this is BE3U without its skirt. It's a very interesting So it is back to back turbines. So, the way this, this So a portion of the fuel flows through the thrust chamber. to regeneratively cool. And it picks up a lot of So it has a lot of enthlopy and then that gets routed to the turbines. Yep. So that hot hydrogen flows through the hydrogen pump turbine first. Okay. Yep. Because it requires the It requires the most And then, as for after it exits the the oxide turbine. Wow. Still enough energy. So basically you can is the high energy, hot Yep. And it passes through. This is the hydrogen pump up here. Yep. And so it passes through flowing in this direction down. And then right here is the Ox And then it flows through And, and what's very clever, it's a very clever little detail. The two turbines rotate in Because efficiency really And even just a few points of efficiency is a big difference. And one of the waste products of flowing through a turbine your turbine exhaust always has a little rotational component. Yeah. That rotational So there's energy in that rotation, which you wish you could capture. Right. But you can't except if you have a, if you have a second turbine and you rotate it in the opposite to capture the waste energy This can actually get you a And then what happens is after it comes through I'm gonna show you another I told you, remember I told you it had so They figured out so many Here's one more trick. So this is the turbine and there's another duct that doesn't get installed in Yep. But this duct comes over here and it dumps the turbine exhaust Yep. Into this big manifold. Yep. And that turbine exhaust So the question is, what are you gonna do with your turbine exhaust? Right. And is there In an open cycle like this? Yeah. And so is there anything useful you can do with your turbine exhaust? And the answer is yes. Yes. You can use it to cool your For your film cooling. You're basically film cooling for the skirt. And so that's what this Isn't that interesting? And so that's hydrogen coming out of there. Because you don't wanna It's, it's hydrogen. we can see it over here. This, okay, so this is, this is the high pressure hydrogen. Okay. Yep. Coming out of the So this is the pump, the high pressure exit from the pump is here. Okay. It splits. Yep. Into two paths. - This is the big path. Most, most of the hydrogen And it goes in straight - Through the main fuel valve there. - Correct. Yep. This is a little bit of the hydrogen high here and it goes into the regen channels. - So this is cooling the chamber. - Yep. that comes out and comes out over there. And comes around and feeds the turbine. - And it's hot at that point. It's hot hydrogen gas. - It's 445 seconds of ISP. Wow. - And that's considering and done, you know, it's, cycle and it's still getting 445. - It's not closed cycle. - Which is crazy. - But, but hydrogen also, because it's such a light hydrogen, hot hydrogen all by itself actually gets a very high ISP. - Right. Because it's so light. So open cycles on hydrogen turn out also not to trade too badly. - Right, right. What you're throwing over the end, over the edge is literally - Yeah. Yeah. Super, super lightweight. - And here we're even So you That's cool. So, - So it's, so it's technically it's, it is probably dual shafts mix ofs, mix of counter rotating. It's - Absolutely two shafts. But they're in line. - They're just arranged in back. Yep. But the two turbines face each other. - Okay. That's - That's clever. I've never - I don't know if an engine You might know better than me. - I don't know of, I've turbines that feed each other too. That's, that's the cool thing is that you get energy just off of the, after it's come through, the to power the oxygen pump. That's crazy. - This is a And now we use it for, you know, basically fitment tests and stuff. and things of development instrumentation on it. You can see all the extra wire looming and stuff. It's all, we call DFI do, I don't know, Development, Oh. So it's just like, it's during the development phase. Yeah. But yeah, single shaft This is basically very Except it's methane instead Very high performing cycle. And what we have is a life designed is I like a medium performing variant when you want reusability in life. Yeah. I like a medium performing variant of a high performing cycle - Because you have some margin in there? Because you take stress off of everything. So for example, we operate just above 2000 PSI chamber pressure because we are at relatively, the Ox rich stage relatively modest temperatures. Right. So the turbine gas Right. So that you're taking all of your oxygen, your, all of your oxygen is flowing through the turbine. Yep. So if you are flowing like in a gas generator cycle, of propellant through the turbine. And so you do need you to get to be pretty hot and that high temperature because of thermal of stress on your turbine. Andso in a Ox rich cycle, ox oxygen rich stage through your turbine is all of the oxygen. And so since you have so much to make it that hot. Yep. So it's more like warm Gox going through the turbine - And you're just adding - It's a tiny bit of fuel. And that's the preburner. The preburner takes a tiny bit of fuel and all of the oxygen. Yep. And you, you kind of make And then that huge mass flow of warm GOx gives you enough Does that make sense? Yeah, absolutely. And so again, you get the thermal cycling on Yes. Yep. And if you go to you start to lose some of that advantage. Yeah. So, and for a if since we can afford to do that, because this isn't our Right. So this is our So this needs to be, so it's gonna be, this is another they said, &quot;Hmm, we should use and LH2 for the upper stages&quot;. Yep. It's because the high ISP really pays for itself on the upper stages. You know, the F1 is an example was not a high performing engine. No. Right. Less than a thousand PSI of chamber pressure. Right, right. - And pretty low specific You know, this engine has 340 - Walk all over the F1 in that regard. And so on a booster engine, if you're a reusable booster, what you really need is reusability. Yeah. Yeah. And so we need and we need high life - That's cool. that engine is optimized for. The team has done an amazing job on it. - Holy crap. That was crazy. Okay. I know I probably but, you know, seeing pictures and video of this stuff is one thing, but then like, standing around and inside of these things, New Glenn's just a lot bigger and more crazy than I even pictured. It is just different to see and my mind's frazzled. That was incredible. And yeah, thank you so much for helping put all this together. Of course. And all this, I mean, giving me access like this, it's crazy. And especially thank you to That was very, very generous. I had an amazing, amazing time. And make sure you subscribe so you know, when part two comes out, you're And I, a huge thank you So those of you at Patreon and ex subscribers, wherever you're, however you're helping, even up or some thanks or whatever, it all and makes videos like this possible. So head on over to and while you're online, be sure and check out our awesome new that's part of our 1969 collection. We've got a ton of that pays homage to the 1969 Apollo era. And, you know, I believe we're kind of in a new Apollo era So really exciting stuff. So check it all Thanks everybody. That's I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday to earth for everyday people.