This is me entering an arcade wearing just your Only technically, it's not your normal everyday nonchalantly load a few balls into the water should and I win all the tickets. And that's pretty cool. But what if I told you I need similar backpacks, and this one. Basically coming up with contraptions to games, including some hacks that cost less than a ticket payouts. But we also secretly recorded data from a bunch of So I'll teach you the strategies to beat the games you the five games we discovered are actual scams. - Don't ever step foot in another arcade again until - Let's get started. Now, admittedly, the genesis for this video came that I could control just by leaning. Because I applied it to mini golf. And while that idea could be really useful for there's just no real payoff for my efforts, which golf course, the arcade. It was time to recoup all the allowance money I've And before we really see it in action, let me Because if you take away the backpack, you'll find machine that we chopped up and modified so it runs Then there's a solenoid here that makes sure the So if you just turn it on, then we put a ball in It fires the ball like this. The coolest part here though is when it's placed the ball exit and then place this water bottle balls at a time. Now, of course, if you don't have a secret robot human. For starters, if you watch the pros play, yes, they actually aim for the 4000 point hole. And this actually makes sense because even if your you're still getting significant points. A common mistake is to take the bait and go all or in the corner. The pros aim for this only in desperate situations make a comeback for the win. The other big tip is to brace your leg against the then try and only move your arm which will make you're reducing the variables that could lead to So if you want to win, just follow these tips and Or you just go with my route. So then when you're all done dominating or if you suspicious, you can just pick up the backpack at your card up. Up next is one of my personal favorites. Basketball. In this case, the backpack is being used just to the untrained eye, this is just a normal basketball when in fact, Now, before I show you exactly how it works, you Just underneath each rim is an infrared laser and the other side of that metal plate is a reflector. So when the laser beam shines straightforward, it like, yup, I can see the beam. So when a ball goes through the hoop, it breaks it for a second at which point it tells the game you must have scored. In engineering, we call this a beam break detector safety feature on your garage door. So if you really want to destroy the high score get out of the way. So the beam reconnects and then come back and as possible. But if you think about it, the whole ball doesn't in front of the beam itself. And how might you do that? One way is to 3D print the bottom hemisphere of a some linear guide rods, then add a battery micro so the bottom part of the shell can translate up This way, you would reconnect the beam and then points every time that happened. Now, you just need a way to grab the rim so you And if you add some pneumatic pistons connected to valve triggered by an RF remote, then you could And then with one push of a button piston rod And then once mischief was managed, you trigger Now, if you just add another 3D printed hemisphere then when you put it all together, it would look Now, if you don't happen to have a robo ball, score for this game. Now, the most important thing is you never want to And since these games normally come in pairs, just borrow the second set of balls and this should So just keep the balls that are the least Now you start the game and get into a rhythm where grabbing a replacement ball with your other hand Or if the rim is close and you want to get really strategy like this guy. But even that strategy is no match for my go, I just shoot the ball with one hand and then And now as the ball just sits there articulating, themselves right on up. And then as soon as time's up, I just hit the no one's the wiser, I've now engineered my way to Next up is a really popular game called Quick Drop pong balls at the right moment. And if you get all 50 ping pong balls into the missing any shots, then you hit the mega jackpot. But the thing is to get all 50 balls in before the there's essentially no margin for human error, don't make human errors. Now, you notice when I walk up, I can just set the The trick here is we 3D printed an exact negative And this piston rod that pokes through and pushes that's controlled by this Arduino micro controller the game. Now, if you're trying this on your own, here's 22 seconds, you have to drop four balls in each Now, dropping five into these two buckets isn't really hard to pull off without them hitting the Now, the jackpot starts at 500 tickets and every And each time that happens, the game gives you And so if you ever see the jackpot at more than you only need four balls per bucket to win and because that makes it so much easier to pull off. Alternatively, if you're too impatient to wait for six years to get a degree in mechanical And then even as all 554 sweet delicious tickets inconspicuously walk away with your backpack in For our next game we've got the perennial arcade air hockey. Now, this is the most complicated of all the Because if you look closely here at the top, through, then stripping away the backpack, you could see that camera connects to the brains. And in this case, it's a Raspberry Pi, which is Arduino micro controller, like all the other builds have used so far. The reason this one needs a bit more brain power And based off the trajectory, it makes a servo which is attached to an arm that moves the And perhaps my favorite part of this build is that sliding and moving all around. So we need to anchor it down securely into discreetly. Our solution here is a pair of So if you simply turn both of these knobs, the it to the steel frame of the air hockey table. And it's basically cemented in place. As you can see here. As for the human strategy here, playing air hockey But there are four simple tricks that will pretty The first is to hold the paddle like this and not paddle around and gain extra speed on your shots. The second is that for your default defensive right up against the goal right here. That's because this cuts down the angle and you far to protect the whole goal back and forth this If you're against the edge. This is the same if there's a breakaway in soccer. Even for a bank distance diagonally back like this. So your paddle should essentially always stay Now when you watch professionals play, yes, there You will see them employ both these first two The third trick you'll also see is they try and You want to try and cushion your opponent's shot up your own shot, which leads to the last tip, mix practice at least one trick shot like this one then when it rebounds back to you, you hit the Here's what that looks like in action. Now, the real benefit of my backpack system is you but then when you get a phone call or you have to is in safe hands. And then at your own leisure, you can eventually Then with the victory securely in hand, you just you're good to go. And finally, we've got the ultimate test of Now, for this one to make it more interesting, I whose muscles look the least like mine. So I stepped up first and rocked the 678 out of a But then he stepped up and rocked in 877. And since that's bigger than 678, the trash - Maybe if you spend a little less time at the - So that was disappointing. But lucky for me, I had a trick up my sleeve. Like actually, because that's a fake arm in order It's basically a bionic punching arm powered by To set the springs, we use a threaded rod and a And once under tension, they're held in place with finger at the exact moment I want to punch a And I would classify the initial test in the lab encouraging. Now it's important to note to play by the rules There's no side punching, pushing, running, no rule against spring loaded piston punching So now that my moment of sheer domination had and rocked in 838 which was less than 877 which And in hindsight, I should have known it's really things like punching and throwing because we're And I have to sacrifice a lot of the speed and wearing that heavy wrist mounted puncher. But you know what I'm a fighter and what I lack in So out of curiosity, I took a closer look to see And it turns out it has a beam break sensor just So as that odd shaped metal piece which is around the beam has this tiny window to hit the You can see the sensor in the front view here. So the game cleverly measures how many that, it infers how quickly the bag is rotating on And this gave me an idea. So I went to the prize counter and redeemed a few exchange for a Pez dispenser. Step one was to unwrap and eat some of the Pez And then for step two, I removed the head and cut and then went and tracked down my new friend. My theory was that if I extended the Pez dispenser the force of the spring would retract the card and think it was an insanely fast punch. But would it actually work? And it turns out it absolutely does because I So yeah, use this information responsibly kids. Now, a few years ago, I made a video where I games and then used physics to expose which beat them. So this time around instead of the carnival, I unlimited slurpees in exchange for them collecting And in addition to uncovering which games were here's what we discovered. For starters, the most popular games in the arcade experience games. And here's what I mean by that: Redemption games So like the Coin pushers or this Plinko game or you have experience games like air hockey, It's a trade off because the games on this side of as much about the fun of the experience. And then in the middle of the spectrum, you have that have middle-of-the-road ticket payouts, but Now, since the games on this side were a lot more even when you factor in the higher ticket payouts. We found that for a medium sized arcade on a busy and the more popular ones could be played up to At an average game play of $1, that means each $70,000 per year. And finally, we found that if your sole goal was Avengers one seemed to be the best return on But honestly, you can just ask one of the workers are probably pretty chill because chances are, see pay out the best. - All right. So finally, let's get to the real juicy basically scams. - Now, I actually have some experience in this area arcade robot to dominate this game. Basically, it would sense the light turning on a would hit the button with sub millisecond between runs and yet it would alternate between In other words, the timing on the jackpot light it's very different from all the other lights. You can actually test this yourself by picking a could somehow hit that random light every single Now, this caused me dig a little deeper. And after a bit of research, I was able to locate At which point I discovered the arcade owner could So this time around, I was curious what other you think it's a game of skill, but in reality, the arcade owner is controlling And as it turns out this really popular game really popular game, Key Master and this Cut The In all three cases, I was able to get a hold of a and each one has some language around how the I also found many but not all claw machines have strength, but then back off to a much weaker For this reason, it's best to try for prices time it's held in the claws. And I call these games scams because they present when in reality, it's essentially a random dice And just like at the carnival, the most lucrative chances of winning because they seem to get close, this is known as the near-miss effect and it will But this is much worse than a slot machine because how you pull the lever because it's random chance. And on top of that, those games are regulated. So there is a minute payout required by law. So for every dollar, for example, put into a slot back to the players. But for those scam arcade games, I just mentioned every dollar you spend. But a shady arcade owner could basically set that perfectly legal and that's especially messed up So if you remember nothing else, just try and pick element that can be rigged because in those cases, These games, however, are all great options to at I've checked the manual for all of these and what some arcades are more fair about this than others. For example, my home arcade here refuses to carry which I think is pretty cool. However, if they happen to see this, my only probably institute a no backpacks allowed policy. And perhaps also don't let people redeem tickets