Oh crap. What the hell should you Some bass shredder licks Wrong. Normal people are immune to So you try learning a bass line from a popular song, that But most bass lines that sound really boring by themselves. So what the hell should you And I went on a mission to find out. First I made a gigantic list of the most popular pulling from forums, Reddit and real life. Then I recruited a bunch of normal people, non-musicians at different to listen to dozens and dozens of riffs, and rate which ones they Out of all those riffs, there were seven the normies just couldn't get enough of. Seven riffs that actually made Even without a backing track. And what's funny is some like &quot;Don't Stop Believing&quot; or &quot;Money&quot; or &quot;Under Pressure&quot; So if you learn these seven riffs, you'll be insured for who asks you to play something. And the seventh most impressive to me 'cause it's from would be all that thrilling, This riff is a blast from the 1958 past featuring a tasty danceable rhythm, and it sounds a little something like... This riff seems easy enough, but if you don't get this it won't actually be impressive. You'll be disappointed in this And you'll unsubscribe and It sounds bad, right? That's 'cause no matter if you want to impress, You don't actually have to be confident, you just have to sound confident. And the best way to project is to play with solid rhythm. Without it, it doesn't really matter what cool notes you play 'cause So this riff is a great to be confident with rhythm, because it uses a simple mix which is music mumbo jumbo for nerds. Basically, it's not too complex to get solid even as a beginner. And it's easy for your listener And you can actually of different versions of So you don't even have In the original bass line, whether you check the or the popular Los Lobos cover, the bass players are as the song goes. So you could play this. Or this. As long as the average person thinks it sounds like &quot;La Bamba&quot; or they're gonna be stoked But they'll think you're one if you can nail this, the according to the official of our incredibly scientific tests. 'Cause &quot;La Bamba&quot; is fine, but it's a little on the dorky side and you might want something And bass line number but it takes more than and rhythms of the riff to Can you tell what's going wrong here? Well, it's a rock song, right? Not really. Because the secret to really is to play with attitude. And most teachers would just say that and then expect you to go But there are two measurable ways that you can sell the First, you've gotta nail which is covered in the Oh, and who left that And second is something even pro musicians who don't really play which is you gotta dig in and hit hard. When you hit the strings you subtly change the sound of the notes, and you fill in that So if you really wanna you gotta slam that and then hit the rest of the Match the intensity of that guitar riff played by Steve Lukather, who also played the bass on this track. &quot;Beat It&quot; and &quot;La Bamba&quot; both train good beginner bass solid rhythm, eighth note syncopation, all stuff you learn in beginner to badass course, at BassBuzz.com thanks to this incredibly seamless sales pitch. And as we move to the we'll be departing beginner territory, and tackling some tougher riffs that'll blow minds even harder. But I'll give you some that'll make them more So this next riff is a great way to impress your metal friends, but it also did surprisingly well with normal non-metal classic second album released in 1986. Coming in at number five killer riffs charts. Okay, I have to stop. It's too much fun. So how do you make sure as impressive when you play this riff? Same rules apply. You nail the confidence with rhythm. You nail the attitude by hitting hard. But because this riff is a you run the risk of of impressing the normies. You know when someone shows you something they're working on, but it like trying really hard and Same thing happens if you choose riffs you can't play comfortably, Perception is nine-tenths of the law. So whatever riffs you add to you gotta really put in the time so you don't look like you're struggling. Check out Dave Ellefson playing this live. He's effortlessly rocking out even though it's a kind of tricky riff. And you might also notice and not with his fingers. You can play this riff with your fingers, it'll still sound cool. but using a pick just gives So which should you use? Well, the pick is the right choice based on the original song, is whichever one you are 'cause then you'll seem more But staying in your comfort zone doesn't mean you have to You can also modify more advanced riffs for your current level. Like in &quot;Peace Sells,&quot; the hardest part are those little quick notes halfway through. But you can actually get that bit like this. And you'll still convince Normie Normison that you're a god of metal. You know, when I was guessing which riffs people would find most impressive, I assumed there'd be a lot of 'cause people love a good sing-along. They love a big chorus Don't stop believin' Like I thought that was and I really hoped it would 'cause it's unironically But it actually didn't do that well compared to more active, bass heavy riffs, like the next riff up, the fourth most impressive comes from a section of The riff itself's not even but it works because it's from a famous band known around the world. Such a sick Flea riff. But check out how easily I can What do you think is missing? It's not really flowing That's 'cause I played all the notes with the exact same emphasis. But the original riff Notes to get more emphasis and volume. So it's not... it's and you feel those highlighted moments that pull you along as a listener. Those accents which are created and just raw plucking volume are an important part when you play this riff. But there is a bit of a to sound more confident and without actually playing any better. And it turns this into this. Ah yes, the magic of the distortion pedal. Distortion, actually this is single handedly responsible for me not learning the guitar 'cause I just thought already sounded amazing. So distortion will help you sound more like the original song and you'll automatically And now it's time to put 'cause the third most with fast notes that take 'cause they just keep going. From 2003's &quot;Absolution&quot; record. But by the power of not you could easily start this riff thinking your friend will be blown away. And somehow by the end of So what's going on here? Well, back at &quot;La Bamba,&quot; we it is to nail rhythm so Well, there's another way to actually slowing down while you play. If we analyze what I just played, all the notes were the right rhythm in relation to each other. But the pulse, the tempo And you can imagine why this 'Cause Chris Wolstenholme for multiple minutes. And as your plucking and you'll tend to slow down unconsciously to try to recover strength. Even just playing through this riff once, you can get burnt out if Luckily, there are a couple First of all, make sure you Even if it's a little Probably nobody's gonna notice as long as it's still recognizable, and you don't slow down once you start. And second a trick that'll help you no matter what speed you're playing. You know how this song and then the drums come in after? So the trick to sounding good is to imagine the drums are Sounds a little dorky, but So you don't wanna just you wanna actually imagine Seriously try this next and you'll magically keep better time. And also you'll tend to just and having more fun, which will sell the impressiveness even more. Making our way to the Honestly, I wouldn't have in our test group, they're younger people, would've liked this riff that much. 'Cause it came out in 1971. It's from a band people don't But normies, young and old, all thought this riff was Yes, this riff is the bee's knees, but man, have I heard it many of them by me. Like, does this sound impressive to you? Probably won't sound impressive Let's face it, normies don't that us music nerds like to nerd about, but they will notice if because you'll look and also, they might not even recognize what riff you're supposed to be playing. And most unfortunately, the secret to playing clean is to start by playing it really, really, really slow when you're first learning it. I know. It's really boring, it All you want to do is play it at the fun sounding speed on day one. But if you want to actually in your brain and stand any you just have to take it slow. And besides avoiding slop, there are a few details you need to get right is a music nerd. People often mess up the hammer ons and ghost notes in this riff. So there's tabs and a for all these riffs in the And now the moment has arrived, we're finally entering Beating out &quot;Higher Ground.&quot; And even the &quot;Seinfeld&quot; Coming in at number one, according to our pinnacle the most impressive play Oh, &quot;Can't Stop.&quot; Yes, Chili Peppers again, what can I say? People love their Chili Peppers. But this riff is gonna sound like trash if you don't get your Specifically, it's gonna sound like this. It's bad. So you could put a bunch of just to play this riff. Or you could keep learning like the first 50 songs from super noob up to But I just can't stop Can't Stopping.