So we received, then, some fire. I could always somebody was shot. And then, And suddenly, a voice... "Hello, And I look up, and there are three G.I.'s standing Hey everyone, I'm Josh from Memoirs Of WWII. story, I want to tell you about who we are and WWII is an organization run by myself and my last living veterans of the Second World War, and that their service and this important history is people like you, both through Patreon where you and through our website. So, follow the links preserving this history. Thank you for your After having fought and suffered through an Austrian-born politician named Adolf Hitler bring the Nazi party into control by 1933. With a a new society ready for war, and German citizens Because my father was in World War I, the things Nazis started the War, I could not equate the war war began. The radio was on and it was Hitler German radio station, and there was lots of The supposed Polish attack on German territory Hitler's forces to invade Poland But France and Britain had been closely watching and warned him that an invasion of Poland would Hitler's disregard of this warning lead Eventually, the people of Germany not but the oppressive rule of a tyrannical leader Say the wrong word and you're in big trouble. She asked him what he thought about the war. He "If you look at the Fuhrer's daily bulletin, There's the news from Stalingrad: our troops are another city goes up in flames from the bombing. It's disturbing, is it not?" And she gave him a Was it too much I said?" She said, "Yeah, but He will save everything. We will win." She went my classmates, we skipped one of our lessons when sit down out of curiosity. The dentist was accused "The accused has been found guilty There, my friend and I, we sat, hearing. This poor And that is an unforgettable moment in my Then, come November of '44, I get a By the time Wolfram was drafted, Hitler's quest around him. The German foray into Russia had British and American forces were quickly loosening It was then that Hitler concocted a radical Shortly before Christmas, the company who could sing practice some Christmas And then, suddenly one day, "Stop everything! has been canceled because the German Army The German offensive, known initially succeeded in halting the advancing and gruesome combat ensured a long, bloody Eventually, German forces began to wain as Allied We were in combat relatively pain in my neck. And the next day, it was so bad I being within combat. I was totally I did leave the front to walk. And a young doctor take you to Hamburg. Somebody on the train With a failed offensive, German forces being pushed further into On the road to recovery, Wolfram faced Would he be sent to Western lines to face the Eastern front to face the Russians, who held I had to report to the German commandant to the West? It was very clear if they send me to they sent me to the West. And there And I ended up there, reported for duty the 10th the approach to the main road, coming from the the town time enough to get as many civilians from some fire. And the one thing I remember is because always somebody was shot. as soon as I raised my head to see They hit the ground, or a rock - I could see you know, digging the ditch a little bit And then, after an unknown time... sudden silence. I wasn't sure, could And suddenly, a voice... "Hello, boy! Get up, come standing in front of me, having their rifles aimed And I'm not exaggerating or trying to make I knew - I realized - I'm a The next morning - also unforgettable - the B-17's and B-24's in formation, going to Berlin. The entire day, we were on the If we came to a German town or a little village, out and gave us whatever - a piece of bread friendly. And then, to the next stop. We with no trees, with no bush, with no building, Then came one day, where the guards "Oh my god, what is this shooting?!" the call... "It's over! It's over! It's over! By the end of April, 1945, the Allies had Forces right outside the door of his bunker, a long years, the war in Europe was finally over. My father had an old friend from World War I who we survive - they survive and I survive - and we point to meet and get information. Until about in his pocket, and says, "Here's something In 1946, Wolfram was finally and began the slow return to By the end of the 1950's, Wolfram saw United States become a reality. He became reaching the rank of Colonel. But to this in the world around him that bring Things which, today... what I see on television what I see: the bombing, the destruction of the I have been there. I have Seeing this on television right now, is I'm not very happy to see the daily news that way.