YouTube play buttons have not And in that time hundreds of thousands of But recently, YouTube announced that They released a statement saying they're being made smaller; basically And in this video I'll be revealing the new We will also be unveiling the awards which have not yet been seen However, because I received my silver button back in 2019, if I want to to purchase them as replacements Now the process of this is quite simple. You just request a code from YouTube So this is what happened when I entered that code onto the Society Awards website Alright, I am on the Society Awards I haven't been granted an additional Because the last time I got one, I may have and then I ended up trading it with a And when Society Awards finally they did politely remind me I cannot sell it Anyway I'm clicking &quot;enter Here we go. &quot;Select your great major subscriber milestone! Share the purchase additional authorized So yes, if you don't know, when you hit 100K, YouTube will send you your However when you're a group channel, it makes sense for them to each get their own or if you wanted to have a Silver Play Button at your office where For any of these reasons Society Awards allow Now I'm going to purchase both today because I want to be able to But if I scroll down... I'm also going to be purchasing I'm not going to get the metal letters because I did buy those a few years But the silver and gold icon is something so I'm definitely going to be because I have not seen anyone show them off yet. So I guess let's get the Oh look at this! Before ordering, we because I think otherwise some people Now on YouTube channel name I'm In the past they let you mess with this a bit That's how I ended up with a 10 million subscriber Well that has faded a lot, But now you need to put your exact channel This is $125. I think they used to be $150 like either way. But with them being smaller Anyway let's approve and add to cart. Oh add more products. Okay if you insist. $250 for a Gold Award. This is going to be an Also once again, this is the old I feel like they were quite a bit Alright, we're being warned about the new Right, Silver Icon Awards? Yes please. $225. So it's $100 more expensive How big are these things going to be? not ready for this it does say I can enter gets printed on the back similar to a diamond Part of me also wonders if eventually replace silver and gold play buttons to ease us in. But that's just a theory, All right we need the gold icon It's $325! Oh no. That is so expensive, this better better be bigger than the silver icon as well Okay. JackSucksAtLife, there you go. I don't channel name when the only thing you're your channel name, but whatever we'll And here is everything we've our gold Creator award; our silver All right currently the total is $925, okay, Oh epic! It's an extra $210 for shipping. Oh what's that? That's another $229 of taxes. Which brings us to a grand total of $1,362.92. Genuinely did not prepare for that. the like button if you want to getting enough views these days to I've entered all my info so now all I need the purchase has been made we are once again also &quot;When you receive your Awards you'll notice we've the quality and design is staying the same, along So they are really hammering home that these turn up. I'm really interested to see them So it has been about 2 weeks since received a beautiful large Society Awards filmed in a Liverpudlian park, but Now before I break into this beautiful, cheeky bit of info about the diamond play button, Anyway for now, we're going to open this box up because it barely fits on Oh this is actually really exciting you know. All right we got anything Oh we got cardboard guys, we got lots and lots of cardboard. Is there anything Oh I see things; I see exciting things. Right, let's reveal everything one by one. is this beautiful little YouTube box. So I'm assuming this isn't the new updated silver But it's more likely to be a Ooh. So it looks like it actually For comparison, previous YouTube letter. But at this stage I don't know if or if they come with the play I've also received this award was inspected I don't think that's a real person; I think that's But now it's time to move this bit of form them first being teased 4 years ago, and then I am excited let's take a look. Ooh okay, okay. Oh, it's got some weight to it Look at that, and on the bottom it and a nice bit of form so that And my name's on the back so it's And it is solid as well like that's Wait, let me get my face in Okay this is cool, I like this. I feel like it perhaps could have been cheaper. I also want to reiterate that I have a play buttons will be replaced with these, Right, well I have no idea where I'm going Next in the box is another, You can see the difference. So I'm pretty I'm definitely keeping these boxes Okay, shall we reveal the Gold We have another package by Ricky G card. I don't think I showed this the first time, that tells you how to look after it and that We also have a letter, obviously this one is the 1 million subscribers version. And our gold icon. So these have got me really curious. is there a diamond plaque somewhere? subscribers so I couldn't check via my own We need to get this out so we can this is exciting, let's have a look. It's pretty cool, you know. So here's my gold icon and here's my see plaques being replaced with these, I'm sure these are really messing with Once again, I wish they were a bit cheaper though. Oh did you hear that when they Oh yeah, beautiful. Ooh. Anyway it is now time for a real review, because we are whacking out the and that is a very very small box. in my previous video, when we first found &quot;so these awards are not being replaced, but they are being made a little bit I'll be honest with you. This This is the current silver play button for your So I think there'll be plenty of bit sad about this update. Either way, Okay, we've got some form. We have and then we've got our custom Ricky G card. Your last name doesn't even start We also have the letter, is that the It's actually a little bit bigger. You can see it's the same text, but Realistically they should be both we take a look at the new 2024 silver play button? Wow that is small. It'll be hard to see on camera, I'm opening it up now; I feel like I'm a giant. Oh my God, it is so light. That's so Okay let me get the old ones so This is a 2018 onward silver play button, That is small, oh my goodness. I've seen people say that they feel like more you'd put on your wall, and I kind of It still looks beautiful of course, Oh my hands look big for once. But yeah, that is a lot smaller. Oh, let's compare it with the original Because the 2018 awards are larger Okay, yeah. It is still smaller than the original; so this is officially the smallest the Now, from YouTube's perspective for this. They literally have thousands and Some people have been saying that YouTube and non-shorts creators should get the originals. I disagree with this. Yes, potentially But that is just going to be YouTube shorts, does that mean No it doesn't because I have long-form too. The lines are too blurred, 100,000 subscribers is the same achievement It's a shame that they have to make them And also some the first time this has happened; let's all remember how big awards I think in a year time everyone will In my opinion the only YouTubers that have just hit 100,000 subscribers, Because if they'd got there they wouldn't have missed Anyway that's the silver play button; he's Let's take a look at the Gold player button. Now this box looks kind of battered. It also looks very much like the box of silver play buttons used to come Okay, we've got our standard bit of foam. We have our letter. We've got our card from Ricky G. And then under there we have a brand new gold play button. From here I'm not looking at it like I kind of was with the silver one. So far to me this still looks very cool. So let's take it out of its I think this is exactly the same size It looks nice though. Like I said, everything's Woah. I may have just looked over my and suddenly this is feeling a lot smaller. So let's bring in a side-by-side comparison. Hello there, big daddy. That is a big difference, specifically Is this silver play button size then? It is. it's actually exactly the same size. Like let's look at it next to each other. that's why this felt familiar Also, here's an overlay of the new gold play That is a particularly big difference. But I actually think this is okay. If I wasn't comparing with its predecessor, It just feels particularly small The silver play button on the other I'm sure people will get used to them, but To be specific, it is 9 inches by 7 and 1/2 And also you got to remember I That's a little pricey for something But as I said, I don't think this I understand why they had to do it. I think people will still be more than free when they pass the milestone, and, recently passed the milestone that I Anyway let's just take a look at I don't think I've unboxed four different Do you know what? I'm not going to lie, having these about four times heavier than this. it almost does feel like this would be It just feels more premium to me, I Now, I did tease that the diamond play and nobody has revealed this yet. But thanks to your boy, Ricky G, I can reveal that the diamond play buttons are So that is both length ways and height. Obviously, as I said, I don't so I couldn't order a diamond play button. I know that's ironic when this is in front of me. But this belongs to a KSI; it's But I suppose if it's 1 inch smaller, it But the actual design is not changing, so it will not be flat like the But there you go, that is the new Let me know your thoughts in the comments down I know I've said this already, but I'm not going to make a profit on if you subscribed if you have made it to the end. All right thank you and I'll see you later