Sunday, the 29th of April 1945, one week before Seventh Army's 45th Infantry Division liberates built by the Nazi government. The soldiers smell causing many of them to cry or vomit as they more than 30 railroad cars filled with thousands most of them severely emaciated, who look like and would die from typhus epidemics and starvation The shocked and angered soldiers as well as and abuse by their Nazi tormentors, want After Adolf Hitler was appointed Chancellor of Socialists used an array of terror measures to The major purpose of the earliest concentration intimidate the leaders of political, social, and be a threat to the survival of the regime. lived in constant fear of the brutal One such camp was Dachau, situated near Munich, which was established in March 1933 and The first prisoner transports arrived In October the same year, Dachau's introduced a system of regulations which for the slightest offenses. Eicke ensured all later concentration camps. It also violence "for SS guards who were deployed During the first year, the camp had a capacity of 5,000 prisoners. Initially the internees were trade unionists, and other political opponents other groups were also interned at Dachau, such homosexuals, repeat criminal offenders the regime incarcerated because they could During the early years relatively few Jews were they belonged to one of the above groups being convicted for violating the 1935 Nuremberg In early 1937, the SS, using prisoner labor, began construction of a large complex of Prisoners were forced to do this work, starting under terrible conditions. The construction was camp remained essentially unchanged The number of Jewish prisoners at Dachau rose 10-11 November 1938, in the aftermath of the synagogues, hospitals and schools were ransacked Jewish men were interned there. Most of the men in few weeks to a few months, many after proving they The camp was divided into two crematoria area. The camp area consisted imprisoned for opposing the Nazi regime The camp administration was located in the had a group of support buildings, containing the as a prison block called the Bunker. Detention to isolate rebellious and defiant prisoners as conditions outside the reach of their fellow The courtyard between the prison and summary execution of prisoners. a ditch, and a wall with seven After the Second World War began on the 1st prisoners in the Dachau concentration camp conditions, the insufficient rations, and led to a soaring death rate. From 1940 more Dachau concentration camp from countries The crematorium area was constructed included the old crematorium and the However, there is no credible evidence that beings. Instead, prisoners underwent so called weak to continue working were sent to the Hartheim More than 2,500 Dachau prisoners were murdered mass executions by shooting took place, first designed SS shooting range. Thousands of Dachau 4,000 Soviet prisoners of war following Beginning in 1942, German physicians performed Physicians and scientists from the Luftwaffe - Institute for Aviation conducted high-altitude and test methods of making seawater potable. These bombing raids or who were downed in icy waters. test the efficacy of pharmaceuticals against Hundreds of prisoners died or were permanently Dachau prisoners were also used as forced of the camp, in various construction projects, and camp. They built roads, worked in gravel pits, and During the war, forced labor using concentration to German armaments production. to increase war production, satellite Dachau were established near armaments Dachau alone had some 140 subcamps, mainly almost exclusively in armaments works. As Allied forces advanced toward Germany, concentration camps near the front to prevent Transports from the evacuated camps in the east dramatic deterioration of conditions. With more overcrowded. Barracks built to house 200 After days of travel, with little or no food or often near death. Due to overcrowding, poor and the weakened state of the prisoners, killing 100-200 prisoners a day. lives between 1933 and 1945, over one-third At the end of April 1945, the SS also began camp to prevent their liberation by Allied troops. system were sent on exhausting foot marches in trains. During these so-called death marches, the Many also died of starvation, Several thousand prisoners died in the process. On the 29th of April 1945, the by units of the 45th Infantry division. the camp's commandant Martin Weiss had already the camp and Nazi guards in the camp's gate tower when the American soldiers opened fire in return, After the SS guards surrendered, the US none of their prior combat experiences The first clue that something As they neared the camp, the American cars filled with bodies in various states they understood the origin of the smell. Inside the camp they found even lying where they had fallen in the last few Sometimes the bodies were stacked For many soldiers, seeing these atrocities that they were not just fighting an enemy, The Nazis had tried to cremate could before abandoning Dachau, but One soldier later remembered: "Everywhere and people near death or in a state of complete While many of the American others were filled with rage, anger and hatred. When four German officers emerged from one US lieutenant marched which were littered with corpses, When the mortally wounded Germans cried out in Later, it only got worse. After the US soldiers ordered the SS guards yard by the guard tower, Lieutenant the US soldiers opened fire with rifles, After a 30-second flurry of gunfire, However, even this was not the end. The prisoners themselves, many of them tortured years, also got their revenge. While all the some of them had to watch their wives being competitions in which SS members threw shot at them. Others saw their friends die which occurred shortly before the liberation. that if they could ever kill their SS guards, When the prisoners caught the SS guards, out of his way. The prisoners knocked Several other SS men and kapos were beaten fists as well as with sticks and shovels. stomping on an SS trooper's face until, as There were some SS guards who had changed they were recognized and lynched on the spot. While all this was happening, fellow often stood motionless, watching coldly and As one soldier later said &quot;We stood aside and beaten so badly that their bodies were watched with less feeling than if a dog were we were completely without feeling. Deep anger Upon finding a dog kennel with German Shepherds the animals. Rumors circulated that the Germans Later, American troops forced the German to the camp to see for themselves the the dead bodies. Many local residents were they had no knowledge of the atrocities To this day it is unclear how many SS guards were killed but it is estimated that Because General Patton, then dismissed all the charges, nobody has ever Out of over 200 thousand people who numerous subsidiary camps during its 12 nearly 42 000 people were murdered. Thanks for watching the World History and click the Bell notification episodes we thank you and we'll