- Now the best way to is to experience it yourself. (alarm beeping) (upbeat music) - I definitely don't And you wouldn't feel well either if you attempted to spend 24 hours living in virtual reality or the metaverse. Don't know what the metaverse is? That's okay, I'm not But Meta, formally known as Facebook, Microsoft and more are defining it as the virtual world of the internet. In this world, we have digital versions of ourselves or avatars. - And we call this the metaverse. And you're gonna be able you can imagine. Get together with learn, play, shop. - So I decided why wait? And stupidly I dared myself for a full 24 hours in its In fact, Meta and others will tell you that the metaverse isn't even here yet. But the best way to see the start of it is through virtual reality. And since I didn't with my kids running around, I packed my bags and moved around the corner. I set a few rules. The headset can come off to Yes, I attempted to sleep with it on. I checked my phone only if it was urgent. I had notifications It's about to be 6 PM, which is the start of I've got two headsets in And lots of apps and for different parts of the day and night. What could go wrong? - [Narrator] Welcome to Beat Saber. Now, cut the cubes in the arrow direction and match the color. That was too soon. Wait for the beat, wrong direction. Wrong direction. - She's very mean. I started with games like Beat Saber since right now they're And while many games allow I had no real friends to play So I decided to go elsewhere for some social interaction. AltspaceVR, an app that with other avatars in virtual venues. Okay, I'm gonna customize my avatar for a night out. I guess in the metaverse I wasn't exactly prepared I guess I'll go to this campfire hub. Hello? As soon as I was in the public area, I started hearing people (woman coughing) Apparently there are no I was dropped into an area with lots of trippy little and I attempted to interview them. - [Woman] Oh, a journalist are you? - I wanna learn what you guys do in here. - [Man] Pretty much in the real world. - I knew I had really made friends forever when they asked me to go to a comedy club by clicking on this portal thing. The club was so obviously fake but my presence in it and the presence of all these other Do you guys have wine? - Yeah, of course, wine, - I even felt awkward when the comedian hit on my avatar. - You were the girl I was but I can't 'cause I'm - I spent a good amount and came away thinking it's which I'm not sure is I need to relax for a moment. (clock ticking) The meditation app is launched. Okay. - [Narrator] Kindness starts with you. I highly recommend meditation apps like Guided Meditation or Trip. It's oddly relaxing and peaceful. And I could lie to you with the headset on the whole night but we have this proof. (playful music) (alarm beeping) I woke up feeling refreshed. I pulled up some morning Got Google News over here, The Wall Street Journal website over here. And Instagram over here on the right. And had breakfast at with a llama in the It's funny, this animal Why do animals get four and we get zero? And then I had a pretty - Welcome to Supernatural. Be ready for your first Flow workout. - There are various types of workouts you can do in Supernatural, which involve everything from doing lunges to using controllers to hit targets. Working out in the metaverse is great. I got so into it, I actually lost track of time. I have a meeting in Spatial in one minute. I need to change, crap. Yes, meeting in the metaverse are a thing. Hi, Erin, I'm Joanna. Nice to meet you. - Hi, thanks for coming. - The idea is that instead of Zoom, you chat as avatars. My first meeting was in And, of course, it required Yes, that's my actual I met up with the co-founder of Spatial, Anand Agarawala, in an NFT art gallery with works from Ken Kelleher, And this is a great stop because it turns out I'm which sounds like the metaverse to me. - Heck yeah, I mean, you than a pixelated dog or or these beautiful sculptures. - We also went to a campfire where I asked him about the lack of legs. - The headset tracks and so we can make it do realistic stuff. What are my legs supposed to do? We can't actually detect Legs are coming, coming soon. - I quickly had to jump from that meeting to another meeting as another avatar in Horizon Workrooms, an app made by Meta, Oh I see, so it's kind of like on the board. You can even invite who happen to be on their webcams. But again, there was this real feeling of presence in the room. I felt like I was actually sitting across from my editor, Wilson, in this meeting. - It's like in Ghostbusters, I'm a full-torso apparition. You don't need legs. Oh no, Joanna's looking under the table. That's so scary. - Yes, meeting metaverse is fun if you don't do it for four hours on end. That was so much time in avatar meetings. My eyes hurt and my head hurts. So what did I learn from this adventure other than I'd never Well, a few things. It's clear why big tech companies are fighting over this. There's an opportunity to build the underlying platform here. One avatar with legs living across games, workout apps, meetings and more. Meta's Meaghan Fitzgerald told me as much. - And the metaverse is not That there are other creators that maybe will use our avatars and allow people to move while still feeling like themselves. - Then there's the privacy It's gonna be insane judging from my brief comedy club experience. And then headsets will need to be smaller and more comfortable and Thank you guys, my headset's So yes, it's certainly the But lock yourself in a room like this and you can really see the potential.