[somber blues] [man] This is where my family was raised. My mom had five sisters When people think of hood, you will say But I want to widen the screen because these are still Like if you see some of your houses, these are some of This is my elementary school. It's now closed down. [Peter] Why is it closed down? -From what I've heard it's economics. This is my middle school. I don't know the real reason but this place -Okay. -This neighborhood develops people You think about resilience, grit, Man, I was taught so much and there's things you can get over here [Tommie] When I was growing up, man, The fact that they shut the schools down... The school really gave us a meeting place This whole neighborhood -Okay. -The swimming pool area, the play ground. This a different lifestyle 'cause from the outside it look like, Nah man, these are great working people when you think about it like where I stand now this is how you define success. Some people define success different. Some don't need the big house, the cars, and all of the things that we talk about These people, some of them over here I haven't been on this bridge but it brings back so many memories, man. -Just coming up here as a kid? -Coming up as a kid, watching people swim. You want to see The way we used to take bed mattresses, put 'em over in the field and we'd tumble. Kids walking, That was before we had the cell phones, the internet moving So this was all fun, this all I knew. I came from a broken home. So when you think about my mom and dad got divorced My mom and dad don't have but those are My mom is probably Without an education. So the variables It just about how you deal with it. The way that I cope with But when you look around, and you see across this track, you telling me I can be a lawyer, man I can be an astronaut. [chuckles] I can be all these things but if I don't have how can you expect me No one in my family and I'm the youngest of six. So I didn't get Where we talked about report cards or the future, My mom and dad were what I call hustlers. My mom and dad, they gonna make sure we have food to eat, and clothes on our back. And that's one of the modes that Because I done been in survival mode When a person in survival mode they got the mentality that -Do you think most of these kids -A lot of em. A lot of them are. -But again, it's some straight A students -Yep. -It's some working families Their kids have never shot a gun before That's why I was saying and we label them a certain way that's not the majority [Peter] Yeah, so if you look Jackson right now, is second most Per capita murders, break-ins, burglaries. What does that mean? Unpack that for me. -I bet you... I can almost bet you I bet he was broke. You don't steal You don't break in houses when you don't have to. So it's an economic thing. When you look at certain areas, right? For an example... And it's crime everywhere but you not gonna really see Why? Because when you got young men that don't know They don't know how They don't have the shoes, and they are in survival mode every day. So... -But Tommie, I've been to Bangladesh, India, Like this is like Beverly hills -That's what I'm saying, -They're poor but they're not robbing. -I'd say at the same levels. -So I can't necessarily connect poverty -No. -Let me put a better label on it. -Beause I said at the beginning of it you have your different people, -Okay. -Majority of the people they not doing that, they not out robbing. I'm talking about the individuals who think they are forced to. -They think they're forced to? -Why do they think they're forced? -I'm in a house, you telling me You telling me I can go I can go get a master's degree, and yet I've proved that that's right. -That you could do that. -But the majority of the young kids A lot of young kids can't see if we don't expose him to it. So we talking about the population That's the population of kids -So whose responsibility is that? That's the parent's responsibility, -Our responsibility. -That's your responsibility? -To come here -They say it takes a village But what if the village corrupt? So if it takes a village to raise a child, You know, every time I see on the news, judge done gave him all these years. Young, 13, 14 years old. Doing some of the same stuff that I did. But I'm like, that is somebody nephew, that is somebody neighbor. But the way times are now the media and everybody, So if nobody gonna hold us accountable then who job? Your job is to show me my way out. -I'm young, I'm a kid, I don't know. What about the victims? The 15-year-old, you know, breaks her pelvis, Her life is ruined. What about her? -That's horrible. -I don't support that. So what should happen -In a situation like that? -I think the law gotta deal with him. -So you think the law should &quot;Hey, he's a kid, -I think you gotta evaluate that. I think you gotta understand Trauma ACEs is real, and what that does to the brain So when you think that a kid yeah, that's true Is he rationalizing? Is he using the skills that we have? Reasoning skills. You know, I go in prisons a lot I ask them, I say, &quot;Hey man, when you was committing and he was like, That's a problem to me. So I asked a young man, I said, &quot;Hey man, what did you do? I said, &quot;What did you get?&quot;. He said, &quot;I got a cell phone, I said, &quot;Man, I can cut my phone off.&quot; &quot;My phone is locked, He said, That's a problem. Then he said, and I couldn't even use it, He said, &quot;I never even thought about a person can cut their credit card I said, &quot;Now they booked you with $10.&quot; The first thing he told me was, &quot;Man, I never thought about that before.&quot; Now that's what I'm talking about. Why is it the first time Because you didn't see it I'm not giving you a pass I'm trying to get you to think. I'm trying to get you So when certain kids they would tell you yes sir all day. A lot of those kids are not bad kids -But to get back to your question... The law is the law, But I also want to go 'cause I can't stop him and I'm not on either side of the law But I'm trying to say how we -Okay, yeah, -Education. So they need good parenting. -You said you grew up in a broken home? -Your parents got a divorce. So that led you to commit crimes, -Man, it's a lot When you think about my story, -Ten. -I thought it was smart to be dumb -You got respect for that, right? -The kids thought you were cool. I got respect for it -My anxiety level in a school... -And think about the stuff, adverse childhood experiences, what that does to a kid brain. So when you see me some of the stuff when I get in that school because you know what, -I felt the same way. -You was told you gotta go to school. You gotta go to church, those two. -Yeah, didn't like either. -Just because I'm there You gotta activate first then educate. What that means, let me unpack. You gotta activate the kid first When you get a debit card in the mail no matter how much money you can't use it till you do what with it? -You gotta activate it. -So no matter how much potential he can't be used You gotta reach your self esteem level. You gotta get me in a place where I love myself. I got the confidence -Okay. -But a kid like me, I didn't want to be in that building, So that's unpacking who I am though You can't lead me out You gotta see -Okay, so fair to say if the parents they're good examples, most likely, there are always exceptions, the kid's gonna be much better off. So why if someone brings... -I'm going out on a tangent here, Tommie. -And push back You choose to have a child, -Correct. -As a parent, that's your responsibility to give them guidance, To not commit crime, to work, -To do good to others. Why is that my personal responsibility When I'm just swimming and keep my family in a good place? -Okay. Do you know how many people and they tell me, &quot;What he doing right now, and no you didn't, bad company corrupt character. -Okay. -And this is gonna tie into your question. I don't care how good of a parent you are. When your kid leave where is he placed now? In a community. So when you get back to that, I expect for a community to help me out. -Because you said-- Not you but the world So that get back to my statement. It take us when this kid get in this neighborhood I need to be able to say, your mom didn't raise you like that, If I don't tell him that... -I agree, I look at it like this, Tommie, you have a good salad with great lettuce, and tomatoes, And then you put bad dressing on it, -Yes. Yeah, you can bubble up and try I mean that's But if we don't address Like it eventually hits everyone. Like you're on the highway and they smash Because they weren't and it's because some people I mean that's the reason -She need help though. -They need help, right? -The parent need us. When my kid leave that house if I had a community of people Because you know what, you know what my grandparents told me? If they get into any trouble the Sunday school teacher The neighbor would already give... -That's the village I'm speaking on, That's not the generation. -So I see it That still exists. This neighbor's watching over this one. No kid can get out of line -Correct. -And some places I don't. If we don't get back to that, 'Cause we can't wait till it hits my house and I'm walking down the neighborhood, stop the violence. I get what we're saying don't mean I supposed to stay It's strength in numbers. If everybody in this neighborhood said, You should never know -So why are people Why don't they stand up And I have my theories. Tell me where I'm wrong here. They're scared. People are scared Parents have lost a lot of the control for a lot of the youth -You can't be scared But you're saying the truth. -But that's what's going on, right? It is reality but you can't be scared It's strength in numbers. You know That raised me. This is my neigh-- -Ton of talent? It's a young man that I'm tutoring now. Not tutoring, mentoring. He's going to the navy. I'm like, &quot;Man, you fitting to create It is real good people How many men over here that will... It's a lot of men. Just imagine if we got together as men and we walked the neighborhood, You not 'bout to destroy our nei-- -[Peter] Look at their gardening. [Peter] That's cool. -[Tommie] C'mon let's see-- -[Peter] Growing vegetables out here. [man] Y'all have any bag in y'all car? [Tommie] Naw, I wanted him to see and I just told him, I said, &quot;Man, when the outside They always showing... But it's great people in the neighborhood. And I just told him, I said, &quot;Man, Like how you just welcoming us here. Tell him about what you doing, man. [Peter] What's going on? For the old folks, and I'm just gonna -That's cool. Whose place is this? -Miss Amy, it's a community garden. -Anyone can come in and it grows up, they can There's nothing said. -[Peter] That's great. -Miss Amy, she stay there. I forgot that lady's name She's a White lady too, -This the part of the world I come from this area. It's not all bad, it's great. Man, you just said this is where we can come and eat. This is what I mean by it takes a village because I know it's a place That's what the neighbor... We always showing the violence, the guns. Naw, it's great working people. -You need kids -Yeah. -Them coming out here, That's what needs to happen. -You see a lot of young kids? Young folks, They don't have minds I'm 67 years old, and showed me different stuff. Where we had to survive off of. -For real. -Only thing I see is older people You don't see young too much I'm just being earnest about it, You know what I mean? Crime is everywhere. Folks shooting you walking by. Drive-by shootings, you know? Thangs ain't just like it used to be. This world... Not the world but the people [Peter] So when you grew up, -No, no, no, we was doing this. -We was fist fighting. -Yeah, but all this shootin', it wadn't none of that when I was coming. -Do you feel like your generation or what do you think the problem was? -See my generation taught me. And so what... Okay, my gen If you don't never teach nobody, -I agree with that. But first of all, you wanna learn, -I was just telling him it take a village to raise a child -It do. Because what you just told me was if you see anything going on... Older people would tell me to this day, &quot;Man, you couldn't walk the neighborhood -The neighbor would whoop you. Now it's different and you can't be scared When you see young kids coming up, you're not gonna stop him and say, -Because it's different mindset now. N*gga, what is you talking 'bout? Just because you tryin' tell them I don't get involved in that. I just see 'em -See, that's the problem, you see? -That's my point, people are scared. -But you can't... How do you expect change I get... No, no, But when you say -Most of 'em I see with guns. This long, damn near tall as them. -I get it. When are we ever gonna We ain't gon' never say nothing about it. -That mean it gon' continue. -And nobody see the problem in that. If it was you and 30 other guys you would go up to them then. -Because it wouldn't be acceptable. -Why? Because I got -Strength in numbers, -Right, right. -That's the difference. Not you go individually. Because it's one thing But then we not talking The solution is you gotta in-house this. -We gotta get better as a group. And as a group, we get together, Because that's somebody's son That is somebody nephew but now you know his mom, But if we don't get together -Let me ask you a question. How could you bring Black people together and when they do not They all stuck on this gang banging, and you not on this. You on another level trying to show them You know what I'm saying? How could you intervene on there? -You lost at that point. -'Cause you gonna get pushback, you lost. -I agree with you. And see, gang violence, man, I know... I had a son in a gang, man, I broke him from there because I told him Only thing you think you get into some trouble and see -You telling right. -I said what you need to do go get you a job. He try to come up the house -What he do? -Come off the street, got him a job. -From me. Because now you just did that Now you gave him Now imagine if it was that's not scared to take that. You know how many other Now a lot of kids not gonna listen. They gonna give you the pushback I might be different from everybody else. 'Cause when I see them -I see kings too. -It's hard for me to see them because I come from that. -I come from that vein. -I'm always the guy that's looking at the positive perspective of everything. Yeah, he going through problems but that boy can be amazing. How do I know that? -Because God did it with me. -I think he knew that he needed me but I'm not gonna give up on 'em. -Right. -I'm not giving up, -It's for us to show them. There is a way out. Thank you, man. -My name's Jesse, man. -Peter, nice to meet you, sir. -All right, you have a blessed day. -[Tommie] Yes sir. [Peter] So Tommie, this is what I've learned If kids don't have father figures, if young men They usually get rambunctious, shout out, cause violence, destroy things, steal things, and join gangs They're craving leadership and so the gang offers that, right? The hierarchy of that gang? Or at least being part of something You're almost part of a family. Am I right on that? -I think it's a way to look at that too. -Okay. -Man, I've been a single parent [chuckling] One week. -Okay, you got divorced for a week? -Listen, for one week. You know, I give all the credit -It's gotta be brutal. Man, to raise a child on your own is hard. Yes, I agree that we need but I don't think that that's the problem but I think it's part of the problem But I know moms -Oh yeah, Saying she can't raise a kid but in two parent households, -You get 'em a better chance. My mother offered me something Completely different lessons, -I agree with that. And my father taught me There are boundaries. Like I was properly scared of him. You know, I wasn't gonna cross a line but he taught me If I didn't have that maybe I woulda And again, if I'm in the inner-city, gang culture, now you're part of some-- Everyone wants to belong, you know? Right? They wanna belong to something? -I would love to see because I know what it did for my house. That separation anxiety. -Yep. -And I was raised by a single father. So when I said single father, -Okay. I watched my dad to make sure I at least have So if my dad worked overnight -Yeah. -So... But the things that father love. Now I'mma make my own mistakes. I'm still gonna make those but I always and yes, you are saying when it come to that father. I just want to keep putting that credit. Giving those moms That done put They doing a great job. Some of them really just need help and I think we are saying the same thing. They need help from us. We are in the historical They are revamping this neighborhood. We bringing it back. It's gonna look beautiful again but we are on holy ground. This is where I got a lot of confidence that Jackson They still do shows There's a lot of restaurants on that end -You got some great art deco Okay, so you're saying -I think it would. I think they are in a development stage back to where it once was. [Peter] Downtown is pretty nice. Quiet and clean, I would say [Tommie] I believe we coming up. It's gonna get to a point where we gonna compete with I went to Tougaloo College and I got my PhD This is just one campus. This isn't the main campus. -Okay, so how did you... What was the turning point? 'Cause getting kicked out of ten schools How did you change your life, -I credit God but not only that, I think God knew what kinda story I got shot second period, I was a standout basketball player. Ranked in the country playing basketball. I skipped school, Sitting with my friend guys and I couldn't even move. That day was the best day of my life because it changed my perspective but in the moment I'm a basketball player and I jump off my left foot. To get that phone call as a parent, man, that's the worst conversation but that changed the way and it changed the way I see life. If that bullet wouldn't have never hit me Because it changed Until you change a person perspective, when you shift a person mindset Tomorrow I feel like working out. So mindsets are alters by your mood, but when your perspective change that's your morals, your beliefs, That bullet changed my perspective. So with me having a 1.8 GPA, and a 14 I was arrested for breaking and entering Breaking and entering Judge gave me... I didn't even know He was helping me honestly. Because if he woulda kept the crime breaking and entering, who's to say? But I didn't know at the time he was really helping me as young kid but man, I did so much. I repeated eighth grade, man. So that bullet came at a time because it turned me to an educator, Because when I laid on that bed I probably won't play basketball I was getting recruited And I'm first generational everything. So when I got shot, man, 'cause they were like, Just imagine that and now I can't even jump off I got a bullet in that foot now. That changed the way I see life, man. So when I was blessed and at that point It was about how can I do and that's what turned me [somber blues] [Tommie] This is the historical [Peter] What did you get your PhD in? [Tommie] Executive leadership I got my bachelor's, -So how did you afford it? -I was on a basketball scholarship but I knew what I wanted at this point. Once that bullet hit me just in case basketball don't work again. When I got to college, is we was on the road playing basketball but other than that -How was it with your friends? You get out on the basketball scholarship, From the eyes of the community Was there a lot of envy around you? Was it like some of your friends fall off &quot;Tommy doesn't... He's too good -I fell off. -When I got to a place where... And this is my mindset now. In order to get something you never had you gotta do something you never did I couldn't have the same mentality When I got to a place after I got shot I separated myself from the community, I was so dedicated I didn't have time to run the streets. I knew what friends got me back then it was mainly about my basketball players, That's all I was dedicated to. It wasn't me going out I was all about... I had fun in college. I did but I was so grounded. [Tommie] You see what we doing here? &quot;Transforming students in preparation -Where is everyone? -Everybody's on break right now. -Let me see if she have a yearbook. -They have great architecture here. Gotta say, Jackson has been a surprise. A, people, everyone I've talked to to the barista, waiter, very, very open, cool. There's always... The South is known but I'd say it's at Not in an artificial way but in a very kind, genuine, Which has been great. It's really a cool city to travel to. I didn't think it would be like this -This is the 2011 This is my run for Mr. Tougaloo College So I represented I take a lot of pride in that, man. [Peter] You like no people being around? -Well, I really miss... The students here at Tougaloo College I'm teetee to others. So all of them are like my babies. So it is really quiet today [Peter] You feel like -Mother slash auntie, yeah. -You're watching over them -Encouraging them, all of it. I feed 'em... yeah, yeah. -You got some good soul food? -Yes! I cook. -What are you cooking? I do homemade dressing, -[Tommie] I love this. Baked chicken, baked pork chops I do homemade scalloped potatoes. [Peter] Thanksgiving every day? [Tommie] Thanksgiving every day. -Not everyday and it's enough for at least two days. [Peter] You bring food in -I bring some of them food, yes. I buy their food, I bless... I just randomly bless Some may not have enough on their card -[woman] So yeah, they're my babies. [Tommie] That's what we do here, man. That loving family environment. Wouldn't that be amazing? You drop your kids off at school that you have a community around them Like she just said, We a family. [Peter] So what do you think if you didn't get that scholarship? -I probably would've My family couldn't afford and I don't think college if it wasn't for basketball. When I came here, just imagine a kid, I love this guy Not something you can take out. I had to have surgery to get So throughout life, I had gold teeth. And I was the king of the university. My story runs deep, man, in Tougaloo College history from the same college. I'm the first male to do it. So man, I love this place. This is where it's at, man. -You look happy here. -You can feel it? I am. My dad worked here, -Your dad works here? I call my dad my hero My dad coulda gave up on me I gave him every reason to. Just imagine you sitting in the office &quot;If he come back to school, she wouldn't.&quot; And as a parent you like I gave my dad every reason to quit. My dad never gave up on me. Then to this day I love that man. My mom too, same way. -So you had both your parents -Yeah, I can say my mom and my dad but my mom stayed in one part of Jackson, and they had their own lives. So for the most part but my dad was working two jobs. My dad worked overnight. So... How you doin' Mr. Prime? [Mr. Prime] You doing all right? -Yes sir, yes sir. I'm your hero? [laughter] For real? -Whenever you ready, I got it. -Whenever you ready. -I'm so proud of you. -[Tommie] Dr. Mavery. -This the new provost here at the college. -Peter, nice to meet you, sir. -Welcome back home. -Good to have you always. This was my home, they embraced me as a kid that came from You all showed me that it's possible here. You all embraced me as a kid. and when they say you all did exactly that. -Who wouldn't want -Absolutely. This is the thing, it's like you said, Because when you're prepared the success is guaranteed. -Mm-hmm. [Peter] You think anyone can make it -Anyone can make it. Anyone can make it -How do you reach-- It takes consistency and application. -How do you reach the kids that are pretty hard circumstances? How do they know If their environment how do they know they can even do this? -Conversation. Real conversation. Not the pie in the sky stuff. Like, hey every student's gonna make A's and every student's No, that's not real. It takes authenticity. Be a real person, like, then this is what you do, and you can make it to But it takes consistency So if you say you want to be successful don't half do it. Do it 110%. [Peter] Is Tommie's story super rare or is that happening -Far more frequently than we know. He's just a fabulous face for the story. Fabulous face for the story. But there are successes everywhere and so that's why it's good that he's tell the story. Jackson, Mississippi is a gem. -You lived in other places? From Florida, to Tennessee, &quot;Mississippi? You from Mississippi?&quot; and the horror stories, This is a fabulous place but you need to -Do you think the opportunities are there? If a kid's got the drive, can go to There are no barriers really? -The barrier is not trying. -That's the only barrier? -That's the... Its here! It's here if you want to succeed to your success. -How much is tuition? -Tuition here, I think for annually -Okay, so on the low side these days. Especially for a private, That's amazingly affordable. -Scholarships? -Grants? -Student loans? [laughs] -Hey, I paid my own way. I went to community college and then I could -And guess what, they can get a Phi Theta Kappa scholarship that will pay for -Okay. -Right, because the narrative is It's crazy expensive I mean that's a common narrative but you're saying the opposite. -But you need information. That's why communication is important. Communication is essential to success. There are avenues to assist and support -Okay. So you want more of -Absolutely. -[Dr. Mavery] Absolutely. -We all got a story The success is the same So you come and put the work in [Tommie] This easily could be a story the worst things that happen in Jackson, There's some bad apples But let's just start highlighting Let's start talking more about Because that's the only way By showing young kids That's the best way for you to show a kid, of somebody that made it Until you able to show him that, look, This young man is no better than you. This young man went to but yet he's gone to college, now he's got his PhD. What you are doing is you are building that he can operate now -And breaking down the artificial because you're poor. You can't make it because you're Black. You can't make it for whatever reason. Breaking that down because it's not truth. -It's not, man. And that takes You can do what you did here. -Don't set limits for them. Because when you set limits only thing you're telling me if you saw yourself in my predicament. No, don't put a ceiling on them. Let them figure it out for themself. When you tell a kid, &quot;You can't make it &quot;You can't do this.&quot; You're eliminating his growth and you're saying you can't see him making it [Tommie] This is the Shady Oaks area. Medgar Evers home, civil rights leader That's another school [Peter] Interesting thing that are vacant, grown over, we're still in the city, right? -We still in the city but a lot of that was operating at once. A lot of these places are coming back but these are still... Like that used to be a gas station Getting ready to eat You getting ready to eat some [claps] [Peter] So Bully's, you grew up going here -I've been eating It's just the hospitality You have people from senators, -All coming to Bully's, huh? Hey, how you doing? I'm good, I'm good. I saw her in the airport, you fine. -She told me she saw you in the airport. -You know we love you. This my man, Peter. -How you doing, ma'am? -I'm Gretta, nice to meet you. -He travel the world. [Peter] We're doing a video today. [Tommie] I wanted to highlight Bully's. [Peter] Tommie's saying [Gretta laughs] [Tommie] Do y'all love it so far? -[laughter] -[Peter] Oh, wow. [man] It was on True South. -[Tommie] Wow. -[Peter] How is it, you guys? [Tommie] See I told the truth This is my barber... The barber. -Peter, nice to meet you. -I wish he woulda record, [all laughing] -I said, &quot;What is dressing?&quot; [laughter] Salad dressing? [roaring laughter] You guys love that? -He said salad dressing! [laughing continues] -Salad dressing for my chicken? C'mon. -Tell him again what dressing is -We make homemade cornbread dressing but I think they call it stuffing [laughter] -That's a good way... [laughter] That was a good way to put that. -He said, &quot;Salad dressing?&quot; [laughter] -All right, stuff me up. I'm in. Hey man, nice to meet you, man. [Peter] Take care. -Brian Miller, nice to meet you. -I need to get my haircut too. -We're in the same club, man. [laughter] -You can get the shape up. -A good thing about Marquise, he come from and what we talk about a lot is there's more ways to be successful. Bringing it into I encourage young kids, Get your barber license. Own you a shop. He own his own shop. Not only that, to go off and get their own shop. So I've seen him mentor barbers, Everybody's not gonna go to college but to get a trade-- -Right, yeah, -I would love for kids for them to find their path. -Certain kids don't want to go to college. -But it's so many ways Plumbers, electricians, drivers. -There's a shortage all over the country -And that's where you make real money. Changed your life? -Oh yeah, life changing for real. I've been cutting hair about 13 years now. Been owning my shop for seven. It's taken me everywhere I wanted to go. [Tommie] You wanna explain to him [customers chattering] [Tommie] This is beautiful. Baked chicken, cornbread, mac and cheese. Oh, it's just all dressing, okay. Check that tenderness, -Oh yeah -Tender, juicy, little crisp. Yeah. -[Marquise] Like it? [Tommie] That's good. [Tommie] I wanted you to see the different These are brilliant homes, And we are still in North Jackson. -Yeah. -This is only a few minutes I love that home. -I've seen that home a few times. So when you were a kid did you ever -I wanted to be in these neighborhoods. I didn't think I would one day until now I got a beautiful home. I used to always say -Look at that place, that is huge. -Lot of property in the city. But you gotta protect your imaginations that if you can dream it, you can have it. It's the law of attraction for me, So if you tell the universe that's and the universe gonna bring you but you gotta work, you gotta work. And you can get the nice things. These are just working families. So you can't blame it on No, these are Black people and White but you just gotta work for that and nothing gonna You gotta work. -Right, and you gotta fail, and you gotta Maybe you don't fail but a lot of people, most of it's failure. -When you grow up like me -You think this is impossible. But everything is impossible -Yeah. [Tommie] Our kids have great access There's tons of jobs in this area. -So to me it's a choice. Okay, here's a point I'd like to make. I travel all over the country. What I notice in inner-city America the opportunities are there you just have to go up this road some bad part of the Bronx in New York, and go to where the job is. There are parts of the country out in the sticks of West Virginia, they don't have that option. There are like no jobs. No jobs for the next -Wow. These kids are stuck mentally. -Okay. -But the opportunity is here -Look, this is one of and it's on the backside You know how many jobs But you gotta go to school for that kind of job. You go to school for -[Tommie] Try something. [Tommie] It's a must that you try I tell a lot of kids Why? Because you have You have a smart phone with dumb habits. You can do everything on your phone. You can translate Spanish to English. You can break down Right now, your phone, and it can screenshot it You have all the tools to be successful It's no way I would be failing and break down everything -Right. -But you gotta want it. That's why I said You gotta want it. If you can see it, -Yeah, the work hard part You have to put in the time. -And it's not gonna come overnight. I wanted to show you Jackson is a beautiful place, man. But again, you gotta show the world because they think No, Jackson is beautiful and as you see, it's beautiful people. -Yeah, it is peaceful here. When I got on YouTube or one of the first were -See, I don't like that, man. Because this the part They just show the struggle. -As a creator, you have the power And I can show... You know? -I can show that or I can shot that and I can put the camera and I can direct the audience That's the power of the creator. -So you're right, you can-- -You see that? Just do the right thing. All right Tommie, that was awesome, man. -Man listen, thank you So when you see people like me... When I say people like me, You will see the greatness within them. You will see the genius within him. So I'm excited for you all, the world to and just see the beautiful things -What I really loved about today but driving home the point that it's actually not that far away and where you succeeded in life. -Yes. -And the barrier is -Yes. The opportunity is here. Don't let anyone tell you you can't because of your color, economics status, Because in Jackson, Mississippi, You're the walking reality. -I appreciate that. It's not an expiration date on success -Okay. -I cannot walk in my future You gotta be able to look past -Right, you can't control the past, -Yes, sir. -And Tommie, -This is &quot;Little Tommie's Four B's&quot; This is my new book, &quot;Perspective This is my middle school book, -Nice. -Sixth through eighth grade. And this is my prize. &quot;A Dark Journey to a Light Future.&quot; This is my life story. This to show you that One day I'll have the movie to this book. I just wrote the movie to it. So hopefully one day But this is my four books, man. -All right, and Tommie, You're a busy man. I'm gonna leave those links and if you're interested to hire him for a speaking engagement -Thanks, brother. -Thanks for doing it. We did it, we did it. All right guys, Until the next one. [somber blues]