A rocky peninsula and an archipelago at the Thousands of beaches across hundreds of islands no wonder that this country sees millions But don't be fooled by such touristic selling It can be argued that this land produced a beyond any other. It could be argued that the western world without the existence of this culture, with Having one of the longest spans of recorded influencers, to conquerors and then to the But their people and language have survived from others and deeply proud of their past. This could only be Greece. Greece is a country that marks the South Eastern It is home to the Greek people, descendants of history. The word Greece comes to us via the Latin with the Greeks were the ancient Graeci tribe Greeks today call their country Ellada, but and this is why Greek culture is often referred In this, the second of two videos about the geography of the mainland and islands, the the country's economy, and the Greek culture In Part 1 I focused on its long history, from and I highly recommend you watch that episode, done so, in order to truly understand the world. In particular, in that video, I detail the world at the appropriate historical ages in This second video will address the Greek culture Greece is a peninsula and archipelago at the the Adriatic to the West, the Balkans to the Mediterranean basin to the south. The mainland is a rocky, mountainous land The far north of Macedonia and Thrace which of the Aegean Sea to Turkey. The central part making up the bulk of Greece, in the West from Thessaly and Attica in the separated from the mainland by only a few It is in this part of Greece that we find one of the most well known of all mountains the Greek gods, rising to almost 3,000 metres. The last section of the mainland is the southernmost to the rest of the mainland by the narrow The mainland accounts for approximately 80% made up of islands in the extensive Greek To the west of the mainland we have the Ionian being the largest three. These islands never fell to the Ottoman Turks, a distinctly different feel to the rest of But it is to the east and south-east where the Aegean Sea. The northernmost are a relatively small number Limnos, Thasos and Samothrace. The Sporades group can then be found near group of over 200 islands are in the Southern The most well known of these is Santorini, Bronze Age, that blew the island apart, leaving hordes of tourists every year. The most south-easterly of the Greek islands Rhodes being the most well known - today home to one of the seven ancient wonders of Last but not least, we have the most southerly, to the first civilisation in Europe, the Bronze millions of annual visitors. The draw of so many tourists to Greece is, archeological sites. But the other reason is the presence of so in the form of a Mediterranean climate guaranteeing The classic hot summer Mediterranean climate Csa, comprises mild wet winters and hot dry all coastal regions experiencing this climate. The mountains of the mainland produce notable particularly wet winters as storms blow in cooling the air and releasing its moisture Consequently, the other side of these mountains humid subtropical climate due to drier winters, the Balkans and low overall annual precipitation. In the mountains themselves the winter weather type climate. The islands in general have a milder climate compared to the mainland, owing to the moderating As to be expected with such hot dry summers, scrub, a landscape of hardy shrubs and grasses Such a climate is favourable to notable species olive. Upland areas of the mainland see scrub giving conifers dominating the higher slopes, and One of the most notable geopolitical features islands in this sea belong to Greece, with Anatolian mainland. Why this is so is a result of centuries, indeed Aegean, and events that took place a century presentation. The land borders of Greece include a short Bulgaria in the historical region of Thrace. Albania forms the highly mountainous north-western bordered Yugoslavia. With the break-up of that country in 1992, as Macedonia, wished to be known by that name But owing to the prominence of this word in accomplishments of the Macedonian Greek Alexander claiming that Macedonia was a word reserved While this dispute was open, the country was Republic of Macedonia", but following an the name was finally settled as "North Macedonia". The word "Macedonia" features in three Greece, which as a whole formalised a shift when they were introduced in the 1980s. There is a special fourteenth region, known found in the third "claw" of the Khalkidiki This region, home to 20 Greek Orthodox Christian rights to govern itself, and to determine Many of the monks that have lived there for time. Despite this move toward regionalisation, state, with ultimate power within the central like the USA or Australia. Having in the past dallied with monarchs, within living memory, it is now a constitutional with a constitution introduced in 1975 after The head of state is the president although the prime minister, being the leader of the authority. Greece is unicameral, having only one parliamentary year terms under a system of proportional For decades up until the financial crisis centre-right New Democracy and social democrat But following that crisis, the political scene SYRIZA party and the conservative Independent The party political situation at the time Greece's foreign affairs tend to be dominated NATO neighbour, Turkey, with which it has with the whole country having been occupied years. Disputes continue over economic exclusion Aegean and tensions over the Turkish occupation Perhaps because of these tensions, Greece 140 thousand active service personnel. It is the seventh largest military per capita in these terms after the United States. Many of the medium to small vessels within Shipyards Company of Piraeus, the port of The Greek flag is distinctive for its blue a cross in the top left corner to symbolise The stripes have no particular meaning, but of the United States. It was developed shortly after Greek independence formally adopted across all land and sea capacities The Greek cross is duplicated on the national by a circle of two laurel branches. In the Cato Institute's Human Freedom Index health crisis, Greece scores relatively high, of all countries. Concerns over the justice system and size below the average for European countries. The population of Greece is just over ten A full third of Greeks live within the Greater in Macedonia has a population of one million. All other cities are significantly smaller The modern Greek language, the only member is spoken widely only within Greece and Cyprus. It is the descendent of almost three millenia making it one of the oldest written languages Chinese and perhaps Sanskrit and its derivatives At the time of Greek Independence in 1832, had drifted under the influence of Latin, ancient form was no longer legible to the There was a push by many educated Greeks since Greek a part of the official language, and the ancient form. The debate between the vernacular or vulgar a century and a half before finally being of 1976, which recognised "Demotic" as But those scholars had nonetheless done their the language much closer to the ancient form Recent studies of mitochondrial DNA found of Crete, which date back some four millenia, modern day Europeans, and especially to modern of today are, genetically speaking, descended The religion of the Greeks is still heavily church, with over 90% of the population identifying With almost 80% of Greeks believing that there religious in Europe. The Greek Economy is ranked 53rd in the world terms of 222 billion US dollars this year. Almost four fifths of the economy is within and five percent agriculture. Out of this dominance of the service sector, Around 16 million people visited Greece each in money equivalent to about one-fifth of same fraction of the labour force. Out of an ancient tradition of maritime innovation archipelago, and strengthened for centuries given to the Greeks within the Ottoman Empire, in the world by capacity at 245 million deadweight ships rank fourth in the world by number. Employing about 12 percent of the workforce, production of olives, for consumption as a globally. Cotton, pistachio nuts and rice are also notable Greek manufacturing output has increased in other European nation, with the most notable naval vessels and luxury yachts. Greece joined the EEC (later European Union) in 2001. Greece suffered more than any other European 2008. Faced with an inability to pay its foreign the Greek government introduced severe austerity civil unrest. Since that time the economy has recovered Greek culture today is highly distinct, being East, it has taken influences from both, while of its own. In ancient times, Greek culture was perhaps that time, and went on to massively influence philosophy, literature, drama, competitive I have gone into detail on each of these subjects of Part 1 of this presentation. Today Greek culture is notable particularly locally sourced ingredients that make it part Spread through the Greek diaspora of the nineteenth gained popularity around much of the world, and souvlaki, cold dishes such as the classic and pastry dishes such as spanakopita. Olives and olive oil feature heavily, while yogurt, a personal daily favourite of mine, Greek music has a strong tradition going back and the lyre documented in pottery from this The oldest known complete work of music is Known as the Epitaph of Seikilos, it may be the basis of this video's title music. During the Byzantine Empire, religious chants scale of tones that mark this music as distinct European music. In modern times Greek singers such as Demis international fame. But the last word I will give to one of my electronic music pioneer, Vangelis. In a career spanning decades from the 1960s sound that became noticed by television and Carl Sagan's Cosmos, Bladerunner, 1492: and Chariots of Fire, the latter for which His passing earlier this year was the catalyst about his country and people, and it is to And that's Greece. I hope you enjoyed this two part presentation I want to especially thank Geoff Knorr for Epitaph of Seikilos that forms the title music You can hear the full suite variations of the side of Greece in the epic Civilization in my all time favourite game series which If you'd like the buy the sheet music from Please like and share this video if you enjoyed your thoughts in the comments, especially out anything you feel is important. If you haven't done so already, then please icon so you don't miss future episodes. You can also support future development of for as little as $2 a month. Thanks again for watching, and I'll see