- Today, I'll be telling you a story. The story of the mouse the clod versus the God, except in my version of the story, David is kind of an and we're not sure if we That's right. This video is sponsored by dbrand, but because dbrand doesn't pay enough to review our sponsored I'll be saying whatever the that took place that led They're Darkplates 2.0 So, strap in or strap on, and listen to my tale. It all began on a cold when a mild and well-mannered best known for making expensive stickers, released their Darkplates. A black colored version of for the PlayStation 5. There were a couple of differences. One being that they were black, and the other being that instead of having Sony's little X, on the inside, they had a more and nuclear symbols and I skull and crossbones, that sort of thing. I can never remember (plastic rattles) Then what happened next for anyone who's never and has no familiarity with how they treat upon their intellectual property. Sony issued a cease and desist to dbrand, citing patents pending, which we found out later for the unique shape of and since this video I'm not going to editorialize on the shape of the PlayStation 5 that before dbrand sent me my bag of money to make this video, I had said that-- Also I think they were going for like Alienware futuristic curve, but it actually just ends It just looks kind of defective to me. There are a number of reasons in this type of lawyering. Dbrand's best guess is to maintain a monopoly on whether they come from Sony of themselves in the form of a new or whether they come from-- (static crackling) We interrupt this program Sony just announced a oh, I was about to call (man laughing) Sorry, their replacement of the PlayStation 5 they're available, and what do they call them? Like galaxy of colors So, back to the video. A licensed partner. In my opinion, it's less about the actual since if Sony gave two hoots they probably wouldn't have in the first place, and it's more about on the overall accessory ecosystem, because whether you're that whole authorized, is only worth the paper it's printed on, unless you go out and sue the bejesus out of anyone who doesn't apply for it. So, that's my best guess, but whatever the real reason that stage of the battle. The good news is that that they were able to make against dbrand producing that dbrand's plates and therefore wonderful shape. So, since dbrand, I think about this at a fairly early stage, they almost immediately were (funky upbeat music) This is actually my first and there are a number One that I actually didn't expect. Okay. First of all, let's look to the original plates. So, this appears to be Ah, yes. Okay, so we've got the disk You can see it still but instead of having it's got like a rounded corner look to it. One big difference you that it now comes with a ventilation hole. That is a pretty big deal in my opinion. Dbrand's already talked but GamersNexus did some on the PlayStation 5, and found that by you could see lower internal about five degrees. Now, putting a dust filter on it might affect those results somewhat, probably to the tune Especially if you, you know, onto your fan filter, (laughs) which David that's a - [David] True. - But in my opinion, having is an absolute boon, and for the however slight for having the filter, because of a difference in performance, if you let this thing In case you don't want it, the So, you can just opt to have like that. The thing I didn't know about after dbrand mocked Sony for of symbols was somehow infringing of completely different in them actually changing the of the console. So, now instead of having, you know, these four different in the same kind of general that almost certainly are about what horrible Knowing them, I mean, David, is there any other possibility because? - [David] No, that's what it is. - That's got to be what it is. Have they talked about that publicly? - [David] No. - I'm sure it's what it is. You know, the irony is to find out what it says, they're going to have to (man laughing) Someone's going to have and figure out what the heck this says. Nothing's cut off at the edges, so it's almost certainly Can you see that? Overall, really good. It appears as though any exterior defects. They've got a pretty nice and then they've got, you can see, they've got a little bit of rippling here. So, that might happen when the into the mold, or it can little things like that. But on the outside, absolutely nothing. Looks really good on this side. So, what else can we say about it? We can apply dbrand skin. The one that looks like a PS1. I think legally they're not allowed to say it's the PS1 color, especially now that If I were them, I would just that Sony could possibly turn This is totally not how Dbrand.com/how. Hey, not bad, okay. I didn't say perfect. Pretty slick, huh? And I can say that after you do this, your PlayStation 5 will Get it? - [David] Hey. - Hey, 'cause of the vent holes. (PlayStation beeps) Which one is the power button, David? Oh, I found it. Hey, there they are. Check that out. As part of the new Darkplates 2.0 design, you can get these little You can get them in a Unfortunately, they're not to actually be built into But they are little diffusers What just happened? - [David] No, so you That's the PS5 color. - But it's blue? Well, they don't appear to but they're definitely which you can check out Thank you dbrand for and making everyone's One set of Darkplates at a time. That's totally the route that I would go. Although, I don't know that They've actually got a I'd probably go white. - [David] White? - Yeah. - [David] Oh. - Yeah, so it's like a white and gray. Actually, I'd probably just go all gray. Man, it makes this thing so in with your home theater Like compared to the big ole like. (David laughing) Oh, and what's nice about the gray too is it'll match the ugly cheap gray metal (plastic rattles) and didn't bother to treat with anything. Yeah, I like it. Oh, I guess I didn't actually to clean the fan filters. (plastic rattling) I did accidentally pop it off, and then you go clean it and then you put it back. It's weird. They've got a mark on here that seems to kind of help you put but I don't see a corresponding of the Darkplate. The only thing I can tell to just put your own little it's a little bit easier to line up. 'Cause we try and put you can see the spacing So it might just take you in exactly the right spot. Okay, we got the other (box thuds) That's pretty sweet. We still didn't find but that's okay. That's less of a big I want to put the retro gray on here. - [David] Oh. - Oh, I'm kind of liking it, David. - [David] Yeah, me too, oh. - And the best part is, - [David] You're not on right. - you don't get that contrast on the inside and the color out here because they actually through the fan filter. That's not bad, is it? - [David] Yeah, I like that. - [Colton] Dbrand should make - Man, you could probably get for the metal inside actually. Dbrand, (hands clap) hey, let's go. You need white and black for the little metal grill thing inside. Come on. You'll charge 10 bucks for them because you hate your customers so much, and everyone will win. Oh, it's not bad. In my opinion, if you want then you can just keep but the gray ones and the black ones, especially the gray ones. So, that's it. Thanks dbrand for sponsoring this video. (beep) you dbrand for Thanks, you guys, for watching. Subscribe to ShortCircuit. JK, dbrand, love you. JK, you suck. (laughs) Sorry, just I'm all over the