Last year, we ranked every Sony franchise We decided soon afterwards to rank every Microsoft let's do Nintendo instead. Nintendo did not make this task easy for us. In addition to the sheer volume of franchises belong in which series. For instance, the first Wario Land game was Yoshi game was released as a Mario World sequel. What's more, the game called Yoshi is pretty Then you have things like Metroid II, which or a completely different gamebased on the Also, in our Sony list, we were able to rely but Nintendo's history is much longer than We will still be getting our ratings from we turned to our friends at Nintendo Life Where both Metacritic and Nintendo Life didn't And where all three of those failed us, we Our ground rules are quite similar to those We are defining a "Nintendo franchise" first- or second-party studios. We are only counting series that have three Ports, remakes, collections, and rereleases first release for each game on a Nintendo In addition, we aren't going to include If those games were ported to consoles, however, We also won't count dedicated handheld games, Same goes for Satellaview games, as those Let's rank 'em. I'm Ben,and I'm Peter from TripleJump, from worst to best. #69: Mario Discovery Series - 43.4% of this list, did you? I don't know; maybe you did. I have no particular insight into the way Perhaps I'd be more insightful if I'd Probably not, though, because look at this We wish we didn't have to bring these things Nintendo saw it fit to publish ports for its tax paying adults, playing Mario is Missing would let us die. The series also includes three games under Letters, Fun with Numbers, and Preschool Fun. That's three games with fun in the title Perhaps that's why the series is no more; advertising. #68: Donkey Kong - 51.6% established Nintendo as a serious contender it and its sequels made their way to the NES, Scores for the NES games only went as high 25% for Donkey Kong Jr. Math, which we're will give us a bump if enough of you start or we should have considered that a spinoff. The highest-rated game is Donkey Kong for That game ultimately gave rise to the Mario to include it there instead. Had we done that, though, the average score it into last place. And hasn't the stupid apesuffered enough? #67: Balloon Fight - 52.33% Balloon Fight was among the best. Granted, that's similar to choosing the a car door, but still. In the main game,you pop the balloons of baddies There's also Balloon Trip Mode, in which far you can get. The Game Boy sequel, Balloon Kid, attempted Nintendo territory. It was a side-scroller that attempted to marry standard platforming levels. It was awful. We did eventually get a third game, and by put Tingle in it. It was - by quite a wide margin - the can't wait for Nintendo to finally release #66: Pokemon Rumble- 55.5% this many big names end up so far down the In the case of Pokemon Rumble, though, it's After all, the idea behind the series seemed love about Pokemon, and then didn't do Simplicity has worked to the benefit of many experience this far down has yet to win over None of the Pokemon Rumble games have even I guess nobody was impressed by their core the game off, and wishing you were dead. Most Pokemon spinoffs bring at least something is like Pokemon for people who don't like And if that's the case, why bother? #65: Famicom Grand Prix - 62.33% that isn't the one you're thinking of. These Japan-only games form a kind of franchise, It's hard to tell. The first game was titled F-1 Race, which Famicom Grand Prix: F1 Race. The third game dropped the F1 Race but retained Rally, which is also my name on RacingSingles.com. F-1 Race was a tough-as-nails race into the Famicom Grand Prix took a bird's-eye view 3D Hot Rally went back to the racing-into-the-distance Which was the best approach? Famicom Grand Prix scored the highest with 61%, so it's not like any of them performed Fortunately, this was far from the last time #64: Fossil Fighters - 65% darling - it peaked with a 70% average for of devoted fans. Players roamed around, digging up fossils, Its sequel, Fossil Fighters: Champions, did pleased fans well enough and averaged a similar Its dismal - and so far final - 3DS outing, place so low on this list. It averaged 57% among critics, and a good that is too generous. It felt like a series that suddenly didn't that worked out, because people indeed stopped One could even say, it ex-stinks. Please save your applause for the end of the #63: Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games- For years, Nintendo and Sega were at each Meanwhile, gamers were at each other's literal The console wars of the early 1990s saw children to either a plumber with a mustache or a hedgehog The clash was brutal, without around 80% of Anyway, then the two companies became friends! What's more, the mascots of history's teaming up for an all-new series of games. The imagination ran wild. Sonic's speed, Mario's whimsy, the possibilities Yes, the series built around the industry's Olympic tie-ins. It's not what anyone was expecting nor what shows exactly how thrilled critics were to #62: Dr. Mario - 66.83% Mario in a lab coat and making him play PuyoPuyo. Okay, it's not exactly like PuyoPuyo, but series than anyone should have been comfortable Nintendo's upbeat puzzle game about the Review-wise, though, it never averaged more benefited from being one of two games on the When paired with another series for Dr. Mario 74%. So should we put Dr. Mario / Puzzle League We did both, because no matter what we did, We decided, therefore, it was only fair to #61: Pokemon Mystery Dungeon - 67.1% crossed over with different IPs a number of Dragon Quest, Final Fantasy, and TwinBeefor RPGs in gaming history. That third one was a joke, by the way. We make those sometimes; enjoy yourself. It's even crossed over with Pokemon, which said the name of this entry. Perhaps strangely, the best-received Pokemon WiiWaretitles, with scores ranging from 75% The worldwide releases fared quite a bit worse, score of 59%. The Switch did just recently get a remade isn't dead yet. Remember that; it will really annoy you when coming back. #60: Dillon's Rolling Western - 67.33% Western? If you do, go to bed without supper because Nintendo doesn't even seem to care about hoping nobody would notice. The first game earned a 65% average on Metacritic, with Dillon's Dead-Heat Breakers scoring The games did get better as they went on, without giving players leprosy. We'll never see Dillon again, we promise, his fan wiki. It contains such valuable information as this: last two syllables of 'Armadillo', his species, You heard it here first; the name Dillon may Citation probably not needed. #59: Chibi-Robo! - 68% for the Game Cube. Its following wasn't huge - and with a wasn't all that impressive - but it slowly the quirky, household adventures of a brave Well, he's four inches, so he isn't that Right? We can all agree that's about average. Anyway, what was Nintendo to do now that it That's right; destroy it! The next game, Park Patrol, was released as Perhaps because that game still managed to Japan exclusive. Nintendo then squashed fan enthusiasm for They released Photo Finder, an innovative Of course, surelythe nextChibi-Robo! game To which Nintendo answered, "Zip Lash." And nobody ever mentioned the series again. #58: Pokemon Ranger- 68.33% difference, and that difference is nobody Okay, well, some people did like it, but none on Metacritic. In fact, they all scored either 68% or 69%, One welcome feature was compatibility with Platinum, HeartGold, and SoulSilver. One less-welcome feature was that it was not the stylus gimmickry that marred so many other "If we're going to give them a touchscreen," make them hate it." The odds of us getting another Pokemon Ranger If you listen closely, you might hear somebody, You might, but you definitely won't. #57: Mario Party- 69% list isn't evidence that the series is bad; Average scores range from a very fair 80% Of course, scores are bound to fluctuate when will simply have better minigames. With Mario Party, though, much of the criticism Later titles reduced the number of boards, entirely eliminated the strategy element, declared a new winner on the spot. It shouldn't be difficult to make a good franchises benefit from experimentation. In this case, though, the series seems to enjoyed it in the first place. As Arnold Schwarzenegger once said, "Party's He said that, right? He must have. Sounds like something he'd say. #56: Donkey Konga- 70.33% Do you just want to bang on de drum all day? Then, brother, is Donkey Konga for you. Donkey Konga seemed to be Nintendo's answer on popular songs. Which makes sense, but part of the appeal You could live your dream of playing the solos Is it as exciting to slap along to the music down to your own opinion, but the answer is The games didn't benefit from being built Just one look at the DK Bongos made it quite It's not like you could use these things OH MY GOOOOOOOD... #55: Art Academy- 70.63% at developing artistic skill. How successful the titles were at this is from 40% to 82%. But the impulse is a good one, especially touchscreens. Drawing and painting programs were a good The series even had some crossover appeal, properties. It probably wasn't a series many children given them a creative outlet. Could it produce anything as impressive as I didn't think so. It's possible we'll see another release perfect home for it - but we don't think generation. Or the rest of the generations. #54: Brain Age- 70.75% Age barely gets a passing grade. The series, also known as Brain Training, your intelligence. A noble goal, but not an especially fun one. It's like a minigame collection, but instead There's no real evidence that Brain Age capacity for thinkin' real good, but it What's more, it fills an important niche console but would rather not play games on Critics didn't seem to enjoy it much, however. The first two games scored a decent 77%, but game, Brain Training for Nintendo Switch, #53: Hamtaro- 70.87% game for arcades. It was a success, but it wouldn't be long of original characters, meaning they would again. They could sell their games on the strengths anyone else's. Except for Hamtaro. Mario, Yoshi, Link...they're nice and all, Could they even hope to? Hamtaro is a hamster who...well, he's a OR SHE.It's a hamster. It's called Hamtaro. It's cute and it slots easily into minigames; The games themselves range hugely in quality. Question Castle in the Clouds holds a 50% an average of 83%, presumably because saying #52: Yakuman - 71% series, but you probably don't know much That's because there isn't all that much It's a series of mahjong games, with little adapt existing concepts. That's because there's already a market to rely on zany gimmicks or to turn it into Mahjong sells as is, and Nintendo gives the The first game in the series was released the Famicom, the Game Boy Advance, the DS, We wouldn't be at all surprised if the Switch After all, Yakuman can't be that difficult which we will all call them starting now - surely #51: Labo- 71.25% that will sit in the corner mocking you for But the cardboard also came with games, which Which in turn means you have to listen to Of the kits released so far - we say "so - the Variety Kit has fared best with an It was released alongside the Robot Kit, which play one game. I admit that's not much of an observation, Strangely, Labo also represented Nintendo's With the LaboVR Kit you could press your Switch The number of games that take advantage of frankly, we think is for the best. #50: Custom Robo - 73% Japan until its fourth game. There was only one game to come after that, Westerners got just enough of a taste of the The two games that did come westward actually Custom Robo for the GameCube earning a 65% That latter score is much more in line with which scored either 75% or 76%. It was never one of Nintendo's biggest critical robots alone or with friends earned it a devoted But don't lose hope! Nintendo could well release Custom Robo: Zip #49: Pilotwings - 73.67% tech demo for Nintendo's consoles. Each of its three entries was a launch title, the Nintendo 64 game showing off 3D environments, impressive depth of field. Beyond that, the games tend to not have much in their modest critical appraisals. The averages range from 70% to 80%. Not bad, of course, but also nothing worth For those who stick with the games, there the various vehicles and gadgets, and they in the lonely skies. Nintendo doesn't seem keen on developing and that's a shame. There's a great formula here but, as of #48: Mario Tennis- 74.86% entry on the Virtual Boy - which we mention ina previous videoand we need your sympathy as most of Nintendo's other sports titles. The games have powerups and silly courts and If you enjoy the sport, you can have a good If you don't, these games won't win you The series has a wide range of scores - from the way down to 58% for Mario Tennis: Ultra We'll almost certainly be seeing Mario Tennis novelty - what small novelty there was - has #47: Yoshi- 75% to sacrifice so that Mario can jump a bit of games since his introduction in Super Mario We are only counting his platformers here we'll still end up with some wildly varying The first proper Yoshi game, Super Mario World cited as one of the best platformers ever 100%. After that, however, the series never hit Crafted World coming closest with 78% and Massively disappointing was the attempted Few people would have expected another perfect downright embarrassing. #46: Excite - 75.4% Nintendo that isn't the one you're thinking the three games with Excitebike in their titles, games Excite Truck and Excite Bots make the Excitebike 64 fared best in a critical sense, The lowest average - 70% - goes to both Rally.It may be true that the first game has early title for Nintendo, showing us what simplicity. We say that as a compliment, to be clear. Nintendo wanted a simple, easy-to-understand into a larger series. The problem was, by the time the second game racing franchise on shelves... #45: Art Style- 75.58% It hails from Nintendo's earliest dabblings Remember the DSi? It was like the DS, but it was the same thing. Of the Art Style games, Boxlifescored 80%, boxes into a frantic nightmare. Orbientscored 82% and is one of the simplest orbit to avoid larger bodies and absorb smaller The highest-scoring game, though, was called where you lived. It hit 83% even though it was a fairly uninspired It featured sprites from Nintendo history was the one everybody bought. Not that we can blame them. Most of the Art Style games made their theoretical Might as well go with something that at least #44: Pokemon Stadium - 75.67% and until the Switch came along it was the Pokemon experience. The reason the series is so far down this Monsters Stadium. It earned what is honestly a generous 69%, Fewer than one-third of the first-generation Pokemon Stadium, the second game, fared much It even had a selection of fun minigames, even if they didn't care about Pokemon. We're joking, of course; if they don't It and its sequel refined the rough formula improved averages of 80% and 78%. Fun as they were, we're glad to live in instead. #43: Kid Icarus - 76% oddity. It was one of Nintendo's original platformers Boy as nearly every other franchise did, and It wasn't until the 3DS that Kid Icarus That's a gap of 21 years. The original Kid Icarus starred an angel exploring defeat Medusa. Y'know...the story of Icarus. It was brutally difficult and you'd periodically The sequel sanded off the rough edges to the Uprising, however, was well received by critics It has a Metacritic average of 83%, with criticism A direct sequel could solve that problem and it's always wanted. I suppose we'll all find out together in #42: Mario vs. Donkey Kong- 76.57% for this series, but Mario vs. Donkey Kong The first game, Mario vs. Donkey Kong, is and the later titles. It also introduces thelittle clockwork dolls As the series progressed, the Minis became through the many obstacles of each level, Or like Krusty's Fun House, if you prefer Fans may be pleased to know that this is the distress from the original Donkey Kong arcade characters have been represented by Minis not very memorable. It is well made, though, and you could do #41: WarioWare- 76.63% but starting with the Game Boy Advance, the True to their name, microgames were designed minigames is that they were too long. They fleshed out Wario's new series with to be very, very silly. Before long, WarioWare was being used to show such as gyroscopic sensors, touch screens, These tended to be well received, not least long enough to wear out their welcomes. All but three games in the series averaged coming from the camera-focused WarioWare: I guess making funny faces isn't a great Who could have imagined? #40: bit Generations - 76.71% We weren't sure how to treat this series See, bit Generations was a series of seven Boy Advance. The issue comes from the fact that some of Technically ports, which we aren't considering games were rereleased under the Art Style and all but one of which had a different name. Further, both series had exclusive titles Art Style wasn't just "bit Generations, See what we meant about Nintendo making this Regardless, bit Generations is a strange series. And if you'd like to import them, don't You'll just be baffled by everything else. #39: Style Savvy / Style Boutique - 76.75% where people know how to spell and pronounce games published by Nintendo for the DS and We aren't all that familiar with these, Mainly because we're the two most stylish have an unfair advantage playing these games. We are surprised to see the series this far these might actually be quite good, as far The original game on the DS averaged 73%, the 3DS fared better, with average scores Perhaps we'll play these games sometime other's hair. Or perhaps I'll finish recording this entry Who can say? #38: Wave Race - 77% Nintendo that isn't the one you're thinking The first Wave Race game saw a western release this list. Critically it averaged a mere 59%. Nintendo was willing to give the series a they'd release it in Japan. The result was Wave Race 64, which was a massive I mean, okay, of course. Just compare this to this. It represented a huge step forward in terms The Game Cube got the third and final game, weather effects and water physics. It scored a bit lowerbut it showed that the upcoming consoles, showing off what they could Needless to say, it was never heard from again. #37: Kirby- 77.11% game characters to be made entirely of candyfloss, We're only considering 19 of them here (yes, games, sports games, and...well, that's But he's been in a lot of them. Mainly he's known for his platformers, which Kirby games aren't defined by challenge, worlds.And by the fact that most of the games a penguin. The lack of challenge hasn't held back the The supremely relaxing Kirby's Epic Yarn On the other end of the spectrum, Kirby Battle Kirbys drop onto an island and clash until of 57%. #36: Wii Fit - 77.33% in the 1980s. Then Microsoft recreated the gamer lifestyle Always one to rise to a challenge, Nintendo Wii Fit. The strangest thing is...it actually worked. Well, it worked from a sales perspective. We have no way of knowing how many Wii owners the game outpaced production several times sums on eBay. I think we can safely say nobody expected I wonder how many people were killed in the There were two games on the Wii, one on the Nintendo isn't out of the fitness game...game Ring Fit Adventure for the Switch is a clear of its own. #35: Game &amp; Watch Gallery- 77.6% &amp; Watch games, but surely by now you understand just things we say to make you angry. Game &amp; Watch Galleryconsists of mainly compilations is an excellent way to relive the days during What elevates the series, though, are the They look better, they play better, and they not just little computer sneezes. These remade versions are a bit more engaging them will still boil down to how much you The Game &amp; Watch titles are far from Nintendo's way of keeping them alive. #34: Kururin - 77.67% art, but it's at least pretty true to what The game is about navigating a slowly spinning It's exactly the sort of game that looks from the person recording the gameplay footage. Critics gave it an overall average of 80%. Its very similar sequel earned a very similar A much-enhanced third game was released for It didn't fare as well - it earned an easier to control with that console's analog It's a shame the series didn't survive control schemes could have made the games #33: Star Fox- 78.25% entirely to its strong debut. It was an important, fast-paced, action-packed The company would have been foolish not to The company would have been even more foolish what they did. Star Fox Adventures was the last game to score The next several games dipped into the low Years after the series crashed and burned, Fox 2 available officially. This gave modern critics an uncommon chance by nostalgia. Would this prove that Nintendo had forgotten that they were never that great to begin with? The game earned an 80% average and proved, Whoops! #32: Punch-Out!! - 79% be one of Nintendo's tent-pole releases. It followed them from the arcade to the NES Nintendo didn't seem to have much interest It did have a brief - and excellent - resurgence We're not quite sure why Punch-Out!! doesn'tstick Perhaps it's something to do with the fact stereotypes who you punch repeatedly in the Punch-Out!! is a lot of fun, though, reimagining game. It's up to you to work out what to do and It's a pretty brainy way to represent a to the brain. #31: Daigasso! Band Brothers- 81% Band Brothers is not the most famous rhythm it is the one that's most directly connected Throughout the games you'll play along with game tracks, and so on. All of this works well enough, but the real Even if you had no musical talent, you could melody,whichthe game would then convertinto Pretty neat. The series was almost entirely exclusive to North America. The second game, retitled Jam with the Band, If you want to play any of these games, the an import copy. Word of advice on that note: If you're Googling of typos. #30: BOXBOY! - 81% by an exclamation mark, indicating that the great emphasis, into the ear of your sleeping The games are puzzle platformers, with the That makes sense; BOXBOY! isn't the sort sessions, but it's a perfect fit for a handheld. Just don't let anyone see you playing a and climbs around on them, because they may The series has been remarkably consistent The first two games averaged 80% on Metacritic, 81%. They're good enough puzzlers with fair difficulty but there probably aren't many die-hard Ahem. #29: Mario Golf- 81.17% golf games so high on the list, but the fact We are counting NES Open Tournament Golf on but name. That game established the basic mechanics every other golf game worth its salt. As the series has evolved it's definitely powerups, and so on. At its core, though, it remains a simple and whenever you get the urge to use the words Some of the games even include RPG elements, own career. This mode teaches you the rules, the controls, Golf a decent way to learn the sport. #28: Panel de Pon- 81.2% recognize the name "Panel de Pon." You may still know the series through one The franchise first came to the West with of the first game. Replacing the game's fairy characters withthosefrom of the original. Also, the game plays nothing like Tetris, Afterward, the series went by the name Puzzle to serve as Pokemon spinoffs. It's obvious Nintendo doesn't know quite as it keeps relabeling it and tying it into buy it. That's a shame, because Panel de Pon, while Also, the soundtracks stand tall among Nintendo's #27: Rhythm Heaven - 81.67% Heaven, is a difficult series of rhythm-based timing, despite their often-cartoony, childlike Either that, or we lack rhythmourselves. But I think we know that isn't true... It's a simple series, but it requires a adjusting. And, as with any collection, not every minigame to confess their hatred of one frustrating There are only three games in the series that in their overall quality. Both Rhythm Heaven and Rhythm Heaven Fever Tengokucoming in only a few points below that The series almost certainly has a future ahead have a game for the Switch. #26: Nintendo Wars- 82.09% strategy series, Nintendo Wars scratched the And like that other fiery, emblematic series, Of the ones that did, the Advance Wars games Games were released for other systems, but the formula had been improved and refinedto them fondly today. Critics agreed, as the Advance Wars titles than both earlier and later iterations, which Is there still a place for the Wars series Possibly not, but you never know. Nintendo Wars and Fire Emblem have completely Then again, so do F-Zero and Super Mario Kart. And we all know how that's working out. #25: WarioLand- 82.13% when Mario already had one might seem redundant, that set him apart as a character. He's fat, he's greedy for coins, he's I assume there's a difference. Cooler moustache, maybe? Anyway, Wario's games do differ quite a They're overtly tongue in cheek, and a number in which it's impossible to die and the They're both more experimental and less their protagonist well. It's anyone's guess as to when Wario will For a good while, both this series and WarioWare since Wario Land: Shake It for the Wii.A return #24: Donkey Kong Country- 82.3% it looked lightyears beyond anything else The level design and soundtrack were top notch, platformers ever. The two SNES sequels that followed were held a phenomenal run for the trilogy. The lowest-scoring game in that initial batch After that, however, the banana started to Handheld outings did well enough, but Donkey its 70%. And, frankly, we think that's a bit too Fortunately, a pair of recent titles have adventures can be as strong as ever. Donkey Kong Country Returns and Tropical Freeze What can we say? This monkey shines. Insert sunglasses emoji. #23: Picross- 82.75% Do you like looking at images with your eyes? If so, Picross combines both of your life's The series began on the Game Boy with Mario's with a picture of Mario tossing you saucy Official magazine Nintendo Power dedicated to teaching you how to play it. They even included puzzles for readers to to Picross as a series: You really can play That's not something that can be said of Picross is a fun series, and it's mainly where it fits best. It's made no major missteps, but it certainly #22: Metroid- 82.8% if we made Alien, but with more than two good Metroid was thusly born. It was a game that birthed a genre that appeals and forth through rooms until they accidentally The shining star of the series is Super Metroid, today, and which Nintendo Life has blessed (The highest possible score.) Not far behind is Metroid Fusion which sits With scores like that, you might think the hated Wii entry, Other M. In truth, it's scored 73% and 70%. Other M, by contrast, missed out on an 80% Critics must really like watching Samus wet #21: Paper Mario- 82.83% is frequently cited as one of the best role-paying Fans waited patiently for a sequel that never successor with Paper Mario, a humorous RPG that guaranteed we'd get yet another timeless Only that didn't quite happen. Paper Mario is this high on the list due to sits at a mighty 93% on Metacritic. The scores haven't gotten anywhere near The era of gimmickry hasn't helped, with diminishing returns. The lowest ranking game in the series is Sticker one point higher. The Origami King proved to be no less gimmicky, This is the stage of grief we call "acceptance." #20: Mario Artist - 83% Paint for the SNES. It was an art program slash bug-extermination During the Nintendo 64 DD era, though, Japan learning fine arts from a plumber. Consisting of Paint Studio, Talent Studio, was described by IGN as being the Nintendo Being as that device never left Japan, very Artist. For the purposes of this list, we are not little more than allow the sharing of creations. Of the three that remain, though, two of them the average a bit with its score of 79%. It's one of Nintendo's strangest and least-known outside the Top 20 all the more impressive. #19: New Super Mario Bros.- 83% with the other 2D Mario platformers? Maybe, but the more we thought about it, the does stand on its own. The gameshave unique enemy designs, powerups, give this series a clear and deliberate identity. Which might be odd, because the first title, Mario to his roots. The fact that this effort became an entire of an appetite there was for back-to-basics The scores range from 77% to 89%. They're not the most exceptional games Mario it - but they represent a great modern spin in love with games in the first place. #18:Luigi's Mansion - 83.33% sticking him into Mario is Missing is slowly releases. Each game sees Luigi in a haunted mansion...or haunted hotel? Okay, so half of the name of the series is Armed with a variety of gadgets bestowed upon it's up to Luigi to clear out these ghosts Or, y'know, until the next console launches.The Metacritic, but its reputation has grown in gem in the GameCube's library. Each of its sequels - one for the 3DS and exactly mean they're better. It more likely means critics finally came #17: Fire Emblem- 83.4% outside of Japan. Perhaps they felt western audiences wouldn't to appreciate the series and...yeah, fair After Super Smash Bros. Melee introduced Marth fact that they had nothing to do with most a shot. Fire Emblem has since become a popular and Nintendo has even remade a few of the earlier this massively expanded group of fans. It's largely those early titles that drag Fire Emblem Gaiden, the second game in the It was followed a few titles later by Genealogy Nearly every other game settled somewhere Fire Emblem Awakening, which hit 92%. #16: Pikmin- 83.75% spaceman Olimarwaddling around a mysterious his rocket. Also he's running out of oxygen and will the rest of their lives wondering why daddy Olimar - and others in later games - can as Pikmin to perform tasks for them, and if nightfall, they all die. It's fun! The main games were loved by fans and critics Then cameHey! Pikmin, which hurt the overall average with We debated considering that game a spinoff, should qualify, this one should, too. Had we not counted it, the Pikmin series would #15: F-Zero - 84.33% that might be the one you're thinking of, a high-speed futuristic racer that was no racing games, but a lack of weapons, a high regarding opportunities to repair your vehicle The first four games in the series all scored The other two didn't do much worse, with Aside from Smash Bros. featuring Captain Falcon his drivers' license - the company isn't as a series, though. The final game was released in 2004 for the subtitle Climax. That's...appropriate because it's where With the climax.Not because I... With Kirby keeping the peace in the sugary-sweet land, it's up to Starfy to keep the peace Not just any Starfy, though...the legendaryStarfy. Known as Densetsu no Stafy in Japan - and so don't bother letting me know - this the light of a Western release. Its fifth game was its global debut, which one in the series, perhaps convincing Nintendo It is a bit strange that Nintendo hasn't in common with its more successful franchises. An adorable mascot, great music, simple gameplay. For whatever reason, though, Nintendo has How far behind? Oh, about 20,000 leagues. ...I'll get my coat. #13: Mario &amp; Luigi- 84.6% series starring Mario - possibly because - it's the Mario &amp; Luigi series. The defining feature of these games is the whether in combat or while exploring. The series began with Superstar Saga on the style and surprisingly strong sense of humor It currently sits at a well-deserved 90% on From there the series has of course varied of 76% for Paper Jam on the 3DS. Much of the criticism today is that the games of #13 is nothing to be ashamed of. Maybe being formulaic is okay when it's #12: 'mo- 84.75% series? Each of the games change the overall name Pushmo, Crashmo, Stretchmo...at least in America. Europe got Pullblox, Fallblox, and Fullblox, We won't even begin to attempt the Japanese The series revolves around manipulating various so that they can be climbed and the goal can Each title gives you different ways to interact that they are all recognizably part of the The puzzle editors and shareable creations There's no sign of it yet on the Switch, Yes, Ihave a feeling we will see 'mo games. Pause for laughter. #11: Xenoblade - 84.75% the Wii era that wanted three things: Pandora's These were Japan-exclusive titles that, at western release. Shockingly, the movement was successful. All three games came westward. Only Xenoblade Chronicles ended up having high-profile RPG series for Nintendo. The first game was a critical success, earning Ideally, subsequent games would have refined but the average has decreased for each game for Xenoblade Chronicles 2, and 80% for Torna Even with this downward trajectory, though, the 10 highest-rated Nintendo franchises ever. That's definitely a success story. #10: Animal Crossing- 84.8% question, one of the most relaxing and warm Beginning life in Japan as Animal Forest, series many passionate fans. It's difficult to describe the appeal of Tell somebody what you did during your last trying to set a world-record for wasted time. Once the games click with you, though, you'll charm. Also, Tom Nook gets a bad rap. I know everybody likes to tell their jokes if you've ever had a mortgage you'll appreciate zero-percent-interest, pay-whenever-you-like #9: Pokemon- 84.96% many years trying to develop a cockfighting could take all the fun and excitement of that Alas, they never quite cracked the formula, It was an instant smash. Trading cards, toys, manga, anime, sellotape and much loved. Even those who didn't play the games had The series was so popular that it warranted but upgraded followups. We can't think of many franchises that could II leads to Let's Go Joel and Let's Go Dog relentlessly. #8: Golden Sun - 85.33% only beloved series this far up the list to In fact, it's not even the only RPG this Golden Sun was released in 2001 for the Game It holds a 91% average on Metacritic and often stop. This and its sequel look and sound fantastic, surprisingly mature. It seemed like a franchise Nintendo would 2010 saw the release of Golden Sun: Dark Dawn, the DS. It scored decently - 79% on Metacritic - but haven't seen anything since. #7: Metroid Prime - 85.6% were making 3D gaming the standard, a number the new possibilities. Except, perhaps oddly, for Metroid, which The wait proved to be worth it, however, as represent a transition into 3D; it's one 97% average on Metacritic. That's even more incredible when you realize few notable examples of first-person Metroidvanias. Though the sequels failed to live up to the 2 still hit 92% and Metroid Prime 3 hit 90%. Even the DS game, Metroid Prime: Hunters, So what dragged the average down? You already know. We don't want to talk about it. And you can't make us. #6: Super Mario Kart- 86.5% the one thatgave the world thekart-racer genre. The company hit upon a goldmine with Super franchises. Much ink has been spilled - ink, see? Like the...okay, anyway... - much ink has on luck over skill, but that's sort of the You don't need to win every time you play The critical response to these games might The lowest-ranked game is Mario Kart Wii, a Wii put enough hours into this game online The highest-rated? Mario Kart: Super Circuit for the Game Boy The highest-rated Mario Kart, here. Yep. This is the best one. #5: Super Mario 2D Platformers- 87.14% conventions that all other great platformers obsolete. The physics, the level design, the enemy types, the dawn of a new era. The sequels absolutely lived up to and built Super Mario Land for the Game Boy ranked the All of the other games in the series scored Super Mario Bros. 3 and Super Mario World. The games have aged well and are still fun What did surprise us was that this particular 2: Six Golden Coins. That's right; if you don't count New Super 2D platforming series. #4: EarthBound/Mother - 88.67% to let its fourth-most-critically-acclaimed hear from you. Brilliantly colorful, masterfully constructed, the company at its most fun, most inventive, To this day, Westerners haven't gotten an Mother 2 came to the SNES as EarthBound, but WiiU's Virtual Console. A localized version of the first Mother game Leave it to Nintendo to stick two of its most wanted. There's no reason the series can't continue, produce anything that will live up to the Then again, these are the guys who released probably not their concern. #3: Super Smash Bros. - 89% a humble first outing, but all of the ingredients And, frankly, if anyone wanted to see Pikachu weren't many better options. From there it grew to a celebration of Nintendo since, with Super Smash Bros. Ultimate including enough non-Nintendo characters in general. In fact, Ultimate has a roster so large, it yet. While the first game scored 79%, Super Smash That's actually the lowest score of any still pulled in a respectable 85%. Few other companies in gaming have a history knows how to have this much fun with it. #2: The Legend of Zelda- 89.89% legendary than this one. What's more, Zeldacontinues to provide highlights Ocarina of Time even stands as the highest-rated Each of the major games feels like a response Zelda II expanded the world of the first game Majora's Mask took the years-long story cyclical three-day nightmare. Twilight Princess responded to the sunny, in the corner until we paid attention to it. And, most recently, Breath of the Wild responded Skyward Sword existed. For just about any developer, The Legend of and guarantee their place in gaming history. Nintendo, though, has managed to outdo even #1: Super Mario 3D Platformers- 94.29% sure Mario's core games are nothing short the absolute best games ever. This is all the more impressive when you realize Sonic, our beloved Bubsy- failed to make None of the 3D Mario games have earned less That relative low-point was Super Mario 3D good game. An incredible three games are tied at the Super Mario Galaxy 2, and the recent Switch We do realize that a number of you will disagree from the 3D Mario games. We went back and forth on that ourselves, Mario's platforming adventures would have The race with Zelda would have been much tighter point in that case - but the overall result Mario has absolutely earned his place at the And that's every Nintendo franchise ranked By other people, remember; we're just ordering all of your disagreement at them. Do you think Donkey Kong got done dirty? Would you personally place Kururin at #34? Did you expect to see Mario at the top? Of course you did; these questions are rhetorical. You can follow TripleJump on Twitter here, the things you enjoy by having a look at our Finally, don't for get to like the video, to the channel. I'm Benand I'm Peter from TripleJump,