The Strait of Gibraltar, also known as the the ancient Greeks and Romans--is the channel Sea. At just over 8 miles or approximately 13 kilometers this seemingly modest distance separates two the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. Despite the relatively short expanse of water, worldwide that are longer than 8 miles, no leaving many to wonder why such an ambitious The idea of bridging the gap between Europe with various proposals surfacing over the The strategic importance of this crossing a vital link between the 447 million people people inhabiting the African continent. The potential economic impact of such a connection and ease transportation between these two So then why doesn't such a structure exist? Will you ever be able to drive or take a train Let's find out. The strait connecting the Atlantic and Mediterranean It's between Point Marroqui in Spain and to just over 8 miles, or roughly the same distance between San Francisco On a clear day you can even see across to The depth of the water running through the feet or about 365 meters in depth. There is more to this important waterway, that the Strait of Gibraltar currently is shipping channels in the world. It's the only natural waterway that connects The Suez Canal in the Western Mediterranean, Red Sea, is manmade. Also, the Strait of Gibraltar is much larger to navigate through. This means that huge amounts of cargo ships daily. In fact, it's estimated that over 100,000 every year. In comparison, the Panama Canal, which connects 14,000 transits per year, while the Suez Canal sees approximately 20,000 Many of the ships passing through the Strait Hemisphere to deliver goods to the Middle However, there is also a lot of traffic that to Asia and China as well. At the same time, fleets of ships travel west and Eastern Europe to Western Europe and the Being so close to the fossil fuel-rich countries of oil and natural gas pass through the strait. Over 300 ships carrying oil travel through Just to give you an idea of how crazy this and 190,000 barrels of oil which is about A larger tanker can carry between 190,000 14.5 million gallons of oil. So, on a busy day, somewhere around 2.4 billion Gibraltar. For comparison, the United States consumes day, which equates to about 840 million gallons. This means that the amount of oil passing day is nearly three times the daily oil consumption The Strait of Gibraltar is an important route this natural passage brings huge amounts of of the strait. Since the waters around the Strait of Gibraltar so many important ports and shipping facilities such as the Port of Algeciras in Spain, one in the Mediterranean Sea, and the Port of facility crucial for African trade. Spain and Morocco are also rapidly increasing the coast. So if the money to build a bridge connecting due to trade and tourism, why hasn't a bridge What exactly is standing in the way? There have been numerous committees and businesses venture, and many have concluded that building some big obstacles that need to be overcome. Ever since the first feasibility investigation project, a bridge connecting Africa and Europe It shouldn't come as a surprise that one being built has to do with the political situation with unfortunately way more tension and disagreement consensus. But in terms of building the bridge, a lot the project and how it will benefit each nation. A bridge that runs across the Strait of Gibraltar with some estimates ranging from $5 billion This money would need to either be split between by outside sources. The problem is that there isn't a huge economic If a bridge crossing the strait brought in tourism or the movement of goods, that would However, this is not the case. There are alternate routes across the Mediterranean, passengers annually, plane, or private boat, In comparison, the Channel Tunnel, which connects of around $14.5 billion and serves around In terms of moving goods, cargo ships make across the Mediterranean relatively cheap. It also doesn't take long because, as we've ten miles apart at several points along the The economic incentive for building a bridge governments. The shipping lanes through the Strait of Gibraltar 100,000 ships that pass through, but a bridge bring in more revenue. For example, the Oresund Bridge, which connects to construct, but has not generated the same Construction projects that cost large sums typically run into delays or are abandoned A bridge across the Strait of Gibraltar would There have been several major plans for such stalled due to the enormous cost and the amount Let's be clear, a bridge across the Strait point, is absolutely doable with our current Again, there are numerous bridges that span used every day. The problem with a bridge that crosses the built in a way that will not disrupt shipping Hypothetically if a bridge was to be built, a relatively narrow point. Let's say that the length of the bridge Ten miles will cross directly over the strait, side so that the incline to get onto the bridge Remember, any bridge that crosses the strait A draw bridge isn't really an option as on a daily basis that the bridge would constantly At that point, traffic jams stretching several turn to cross. People would be stuck in their cars for hours social media as they waited for the drawbridge The world's longest bridge is the Danyang-Kunshan in China. This bridge is 104.2 miles or 164.8 kilometers The longest bridge for cars and trucks is or 53.9 kilometers long. So, length is not a problem for engineers. What is a problem is the height required to the bridge without disrupting traffic. The largest container ships on the planet These vessels are built by Samsung Heavy Industries, units, and are over 100 feet high. And even though a lot of the vessel sits underwater, to get under a bridge. The crazy thing is that bigger ships are always a bridge that will cross the Strait of Gibraltar of it every decade, they need to build the not higher to make sure these giant ships What it comes down to is that the construction and any engineer who tries to tackle the problem to make both the travelers driving over the and go under the bridge happy. But this isn't even the biggest problem across the Strait of Gibraltar. To explore the largest obstacle standing in and even under the crust of the Earth itself. Although a bridge crossing the Strait of Gibraltar storms that blow in from the Atlantic, it's to the bridge's stability. If you think back to any earth science class the Earth's crust is made up of different shifting. Areas where the boundary of two or more plates including earthquakes. Unfortunately, for any bridge or large-scale the African and Eurasian plate meet directly continents. It's here that the Azores-Gibraltar Transform A transform fault is a location where two at these locations that earthquakes are more This means the region where a bridge connecting to devastating geologic activity. Any bridge that is constructed across the earthquakes without collapsing because it's but when. For instance, the 1755 Lisbon earthquake, 9.0 on the Richter scale, caused significant while the 1960 Agadir earthquake, measuring destruction in the Moroccan city of Agadir. And since earthquakes are just a natural byproduct to stop them. Other bridges, tunnels, and connections that have this problem. It's the location of the Strait of Gibraltar active area. Surveys have also found that the seafloor locations, such as where the Channel Tunnel Researchers identified that the floor of the channels, which are highly unstable and make other structures to support a bridge. Quaternary clay channels are layers of clay recent geological period, known as the Quaternary. These channels consist of soft, unconsolidated easily under pressure or due to geological Geologists warn that any construction project failures solely due to the location of the Earth's crust in the area. The bottom line is that building a bridge dangerous due to the presence of these unstable So, is it impossible to build a structure Surprisingly, no. Engineers have found some ways around many there may be solutions that present themselves But before we can explore these options, we itself and exactly what we're getting into. Due to plate tectonics, the Earth hasn't Over the course of millions of years, the and topography has changed. It wasn't until relatively recently that Of course recently in geologic terms still it's important to understand how exactly Originally, what became the Mediterranean ocean that existed between the continents and early Cenozoic eras, spanning roughly what today would be India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Over time, the African continent shifted and what would eventually become the Mediterranean The waters in the region began to dry up and European, and Asian continents. Around 5.3 million years ago, during an event land began to sink due to the movement of flowed into the depression, creating what The waters of the Atlantic constantly flow water lost to evaporation. Even more important for the aquatic ecosystem flowing through the strait carry less salinated becoming too salty. At the same time, the saltier waters of the under the surface current and empty into the The waters from the Atlantic are also full to support a variety of fish and aquatic life. For example, an orca pod of around 36 individuals takes advantage of the bountiful waters in Though with the increase in shipping and trade in the strait are either threatened or endangered. So then it's also worth considering how and, therefore, could improve the ecosystem But this is a long way from ever becoming can be made by moving cargo ships through Sorry dolphins. Interestingly, the Mediterranean Sea would of Gibraltar. So, the strait is not just a metaphorical an actual one thanks to its replenishment 125,000 years ago, Neanderthals lived along In fact, the Rock of Gibraltar, the most prominent have been one of the last holdouts for Neanderthals Humans like you and me, wiped them off the Neanderthal sites dating from around 24,000 archaeological evidence shows that humans Once large civilizations developed in the Carthaginian empires, the Strait of Gibraltar up the coast of Europe and into Africa. As the Age of Exploration and the Renaissance and increasingly became riddled with trade Throughout history, invasion campaigns and between the peoples of Spain and Morocco that Both sides warred for centuries without any peacefully. The lands straddling the Strait of Gibraltar But as European colonialism began to take of the political issues that the region faces It was mostly Portuguese, British, and Spanish cities and forts, such as the Alcazar of of Sao Joao da Barra in Tangier, to control this time. And like in many parts of the world, Britain along the strait, and in particular, the city famous Rock of Gibraltar and its extensive Gibraltar is actually a British Overseas Territory Empire. It is approximately 2.6 square miles in size, 32,000 citizens. It was in 1704 that Anglo-Dutch forces captured War of Spanish Succession. In 1713 when the Treaty of Utrecht was signed, been controlled by Britain ever since. While Spain continues to assert a claim over live there reject proposals to be incorporated This is because, for centuries, they have While the citizens there speak Spanish as have very little interest in switching their With the passing of Brexit, Gibraltar left this decision ended up being pretty unpopular to remain. So, Gibraltar is a point of contention between At this point, it seems that the citizens business as usual under British oversight be ceded back to Spain any time soon. However, things might have been slightly different Either way, the Spanish government still brings borders from time to time, but as of yet, city with the rest of Spain. But Spain has very little ground to stand be returned to them as they have carved out The Spanish have their own protectorates in Both sit on the African side of the Strait On November 27, 1912, a treaty between France spheres of influence in Morocco into formal At this time, the territory which Spain controlled In 1957 the Ifni War broke out when Spain proclaimed was their territory. Nations across the continent of Africa had reclaiming their lands from Europeans. Spain hoped to stop this from happening in started, it was over. There had been several back-and-forth battles, Army of Liberation against the combined Franco-Spanish in the region. On April 2, 1958, the leaders of Spain and de Cintra. This agreement stated that Spain would cede much of the territory they controlled in southern However, it wouldn't be until 1969 that Ifni. And it would be another six years before Morocco of its domain. But they still didn't have complete control In fact, to this very day, Morocco claims to the Moroccan people and should be incorporated Yet, both are still internationally recognized The Moroccan government even compares the which should be easy for the Spanish government But Spain continues to consider Ceuta and since they have been under Spanish control This is a weak argument when you consider and colonized for hundreds of years. But, Spain stands by the fact that even though they still belong to them. In reality, Ceuta and Melilla are in very is why Spain wants to maintain control of If the cities held no economic or strategic would have ceded them to Morocco long ago. And this is where many of the problems come between the governments of the region. It's hard to work with a government that back. And this is exactly what has happened with for Morocco. If each of these territories were returned productive relationship be built between the Perhaps. It would take time, but it would likely be However, this does not seem likely to happen Instead, both Spain and Morocco will continue nation control territory within their borders But these disagreements don't just stay Having multiple nations claiming territories has also complicated who controls the waters Most of the marine territory is held by Spain the United Kingdom, Britain also controls However, it's Spain's territory in Morocco Both Spain and Morocco claim that the southeastern and it isn't hard to see why. The Spanish government uses Ceuta and Melilla claim to the waters off the coast of Morocco. Obviously, the Moroccan government does not should be under their control in the first Currently, the United Kingdom claims that miles or 5.6 kilometers of water off the coast Britain also claims that much of the strait and Morocco disagree with. To keep relative peace in the region and allow of Gibraltar, the United Nations Convention a transit passage, which allows ships and crossing through the channel. It's clear that the region's history has lot of disagreement over the Strait of Gibraltar When we understand the geography and events Spanish and Moroccan governments haven't manner to plan a bridge connecting Africa But what about a tunnel? Can the two governments put aside their differences Over the years, bridges have not been the Europe and Africa. As far back as the 1930s, Spain came up with the Strait of Gibraltar to allow trains and A subsequent survey of the seafloor's composition rock that the tunneling machinery of the time To get around this problem, one engineer suggested Strait of Gibraltar's waters and securing This plan went nowhere as the idea seemed the world had a much bigger problem to worry invaded Poland and kicked off World War II. The tunnel idea then all but vanished until new round of discussions to construct a tunnel But once again, these talks went nowhere due feasibility of the project. Even though technology had come a long way, plans for a tunnel were once again abandoned. In 2003 both governments agreed to explore They would use a rail gauge of 1,435 mm as from broad gauge systems to standard gauge. This was forward-thinking, but it meant that no guarantee the railways in Spain and Morocco This meant the tunnel connecting the two continents on either side of the strait were switched So the rail tunnel was postponed to a later In 2008 a new geological survey was carried was doable. But this study concluded that the seafloor's like numerous other surveys from the past It then became apparent that the shortest not be the best place to construct a tunnel. Instead, engineers recommended that the project to the east of Tangier. This would mean that the tunnel would cross would be in a more favorable location for When completed, the tunnel would span 21 miles to the Spanish high-speed railway system, cities throughout the country. The planning phases for the project commenced, of both countries rarely discussed the tunneling Then in April of 2021, ministers from both meeting in Casablanca to discuss the tunnel This meeting was likely a direct result of of 2021 to see if a tunnel linking Gibraltar This would completely replace the tunnel that the past several years but had yet to make The surveys by Britain lit a fire under the a high-level bilateral meeting between Spanish on the tunnel under the Strait of Gibraltar As of now, construction on the tunnel is supposed times that progress has stalled, it's a actually happen by then. But what about a bridge? A tunnel that runs under the channel would ever see a bridge that connects Africa and Some engineers have not given up on such a Remember that due to the geologic location such as earthquakes need to be considered. But this hasn't stopped engineers from thinking Multiple organizations including UNESCO, the and both the Moroccan and Spanish governments a bridge across the Strait of Gibraltar is Many have concluded that it just doesn't But when has that ever stopped humans from Professor T.Y. Lin, who received the National Medal of Science an incredible plan to connect Africa and Europe. He proposed that a bridge be built between 8.7 miles or 14 kilometers apart. However, it was his plan to have the bridge pier to the next that caught the engineering than any other bridge in the world. Computer models were generated to test aspects of the environment and relative aerodynamic Several different types of bridge designs Professor Lin's proposed hybrid stayed-suspension best for the crossing. It allowed for stronger rigidity and was much bridges with shorter spans. The bridge was estimated to cost 15 billion dollars today. Lin's dream bridge never became a reality exorbitant cost wasn't a barrier. However, this hasn't stopped other engineers and out-of-this-world designs. Eugene Tssui is an American architect who What this means is that he incorporates structures problems. He also incorporates ecological principles mimic the aesthetic values found in nature. This was the basic premise for his bridge However, Tssui wouldn't just be building island and an underwater bridge be constructed His project was called The Strait of Gibraltar 14.5 kilometers in length. The bridge would be constructed underwater It would be around 650 feet and about 200 underwater bridge with plenty of clearance The island that would connect the two sections wind turbines, a port, and businesses. There would also be a marina for smaller boats The wind turbines would be supplemented by The most astonishing aspect of Tssui's plan between its wind and tidal turbines, it would most of Morocco and southern Spain. This would not just be a bridge; it would rolled into a structure that connected Africa Tssui planned to have 24 lanes for cars and continents. The floating bridge alone would cost somewhere There are no current plans to make Tssui's but perhaps future bridges will be multifunctional It seems like a win-win for everyone if a and serve as a tourist destination all at However, this would require massive amounts together, which are things that don't seem So, the question becomes: if there is no bridge across the Strait of Gibraltar? The answer is by boat. Humans have been crossing the strait by ship seem likely to change any time soon. Perhaps in the future, there will be a railway Or maybe Spain and Morocco will work together respective continents. Right now, shipping lanes and trade are much any type of structure that will cross the Neither Spain nor Morocco will engage in any the enormous amount of cash and goods passing So, until a solid plan is agreed upon to connect non-disruptive, people will just have to keep way they have for all of human history. On boats.