[ Music ] &gt;&gt; Good morning everyone. Hello friends online as well, staff, faculty, Thank you all for coming to the For those of you that didn't know, today is Whitman Day and-- Now, what Whitman Day does is it brings to reflect upon how Whitman has affected as well as to show appreciation for of our students and for our community. Before I get started, I'd like to firekeepers of the Haudenosaunee, on whose Syracuse-- Well, Firekeepers of the Haudenosaunee, on whose ancestral lands Got that right. Said lots of times, never goofed until today. This is also the fourth speaker at our Those of you who haven't participated really helps to bring in outstanding guests to in business practice, in leadership, in So with that, what we really try to do with about what lies ahead in to share insights from outstanding leaders that they face in their regular business for our students, and also and positive role models So today is a great day, it's Whitman Day, we're Coach Jack is obviously the coach of the in leading the Orange, she's Resurrected the team from being at the in the nation's best conference for basketball. [ Applause, cheering ] And I'm not done yet, there's lots more So including some of those accomplishments in 20 wins is a big milestone in Made the post-seasons both years, most and as a reflection of these significant of the Year in 2024, and this is in basketball has received that award. Right, men and women. Also, the first woman in Syracuse Athletics' Was BIG EAST Freshman of the Year, Second and also when you graduated, the and you led the Syracuse Women's Basketball Did I forget anything big? &gt;&gt; No, that's all, I think that's pretty good. &gt;&gt; I think that's very good. And so I think that's, and the about today obviously will reflect, you know, importantly for the business school, your culture building experiences. But let's go back to the very beginning. Letting the audience know a little in Syracuse University women's basketball team. Can you share kind of an abbreviated version in Syracuse, as one, some of the that maybe helped shape you &gt;&gt; Well, thank you so much for having me. This is my first time in It's amazing. This used to be a parking lot that I used to and those establishments that our [inaudible] party a little bit in college. But, you know, I grew up in Syracuse and I'm Because we were local people that dreamt about of the student population and you know, and they all wanted to come to Syracuse, and that was chosen to be a part And when I came here, I came here, you know, Like, why wasn't my brothers and sisters good And so when I played my sport, I decided to and Syracuse was fourth on the list. Which is a good number to be if you look at And I think that's important to know, especially you must believe so much in yourself, and you that when it gets just about the job or the and it's easy for you to sustain or and an athlete or a business owner. So, we came here, we were told that this wasn't and my guidance counselor thought that because everybody didn't look like me and such a diverse room, and I'm so grateful I to come here and not just get one degree but I and rebounder in the history And all those things really doesn't through this great university is the friendships through this process of getting by the number one school, in And I still hold those friends dear to me over I was on the phone with one of my college and we haven't missed a beat, and so I'm We still have so much more work to do as pay for play and you know, everybody's I forgot I wasn't happy today, let me go to And so how do we make Syracuse relevant, on our chests and the other schools don't. &gt;&gt; Great. So if we think about your, you know, How were you inspired to develop the &gt;&gt; Well, I learned to coach because I was just going to play I was going to be the player And my senior year, when I was preparing and I saw the game from a coach's that's what coach been yelling This is why this person got to work with that at this time, and I think I can And that moment when I blew my knee out is when in 1988-89, and I became a high school coach, by Margo Plotzke at Boston College. She needed to hire an African American coach and and I was roommates with her and asked me to come out and interview. And I go to Boston College, she said she had at Boston College for women's And she said, this job will all you've got to do is get these young Like, I just got to convince somebody that, for their career, is that cool, I'm like, I don't even know You know? And by the time I left over the and I got my start of being an and Syracuse, and I went on from there. But I developed an idea that, you know, no matter how great you are as an that and I think that is character. And if you have character, I think it can and it can enhance your basketball I've always said if I ever become I will lead it with my CAB approach; and I think that Basketball is a that I think I can coach it pretty well. And so, that's what we do, I am not the best coach you're ever going to but I do understand the dynamics of people and I think people working together can create &gt;&gt; Great, so as part of, you know, with your there's only five players on the floor at some starters, some supporting, How do you think about building a culture, but also need to have specific Well, I think winning begins in the locker room. You can't just put people out there and say, it's time to represent Syracuse, You-- that's kind of corny, but that-- &gt;&gt; That's what people-- I get that You look like that the Gipper's going &gt;&gt; I think that in the locker room in the summertime our kids come We talk about what their why is. We talk about what ignite And it's not necessarily the ball bouncing my mom has Alzheimer's, or my sister and we tap into that why, and if we tap deeply or not, they're in that locker room being I think that creates the culture to sustain a winning formula, in my opinion. &gt;&gt; So do you, you work towards a &gt;&gt; Individually first. You have to build relationships with that we have a fantastic football coach who's I mean I don't know, I take a lot of time to and it's only up to 15 and so for me, it's a you know, he's the number one I'm learning from him, I'm learning from my But I absolutely go after connecting with each then three, and the whole team as one. As freshmen they'll come in three or so a lot of time to connect with them and you with the team, it's an easier process I think. &gt;&gt; Okay, so in your leadership role, and with and when we have a winning Sometimes players make mistakes, and How do you coach these players, they're not finished, they can come back. How do you keep them focused &gt;&gt; We get after it in practice, hard you know. At 57-years-old, I still and two days ago we were playing about to win the game, and I gave her a We lost, and I jumped on her. I jumped on her hard. Because at the end of the day, losing but that score said you didn't win, you know? And I challenged her hard, like you know, it wasn't your fault, or hey, we'll get the and I was watching as a coach, I There's going to be times when it's but you need to come to me and let's engage We lost that [inaudible] when and I really pushed her hard And I told her, go to another team, and I wanted You let me just tell you as a coach or And so she went on the other But then she went on the other team, she scored the first seven points She actually won. And I think that we're going to see a lot of because her intensity of purpose is not and I think that's, sometimes we have to hug and sometimes you've got to share stories and to raise these young ladies to not just be at this amazing university, but when I need them to be phenomenal women to go because I've discovered in my years of being on you're not counted as equally as And we have to be able to go beyond so they can understand who you are and &gt;&gt; Okay. So with that, obviously women's in terms of national appeal as well. There's some people who, you know, In terms of, you know, that level so desires to maybe get public fame beyond just to have these outside of the classroom, &gt;&gt; Well, first you've got to help them recognize even though you earn something, when you don't get the thing that you've earned. Like we have the third best scorer in the ever played basketball, who of you didn't even watch her Is it because she's a women's basketball player? Is it because we're too busy I don't know what that answer is, but Dyaisha with over a 3.0 GPA and was and we don't even know who she is right here. So, what we try to help our young people to come and it doesn't show up, how And so we help with that, that's the hardest when it comes, we talk about having that's a biblical term, and when it comes, but keep working hard because as and if you tap into it's not going to come continue to fight to become something even I think that balance of greatness &gt;&gt; Great, well obviously, you know, &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; When you talk about character, and recruiting than before, how do you evaluate 18-year-olds who are maybe coming directly How do you start to tap into whether they're &gt;&gt; Well, my psychology background here, and those counselors have That's a good plug and I so I wonder if I can get my GPA a little &gt;&gt; Master's degree, master's degree. &gt;&gt; Master's, let's go, let's go. Congratulations Jim Boeheim, he just got his-- &gt;&gt; Honorary doctorate. A couple weeks, yeah. &gt;&gt; -- honorary doctorate. Absolutely. Wonderful guy. How do you-- &gt;&gt; How do you evaluate character? &gt;&gt; -- character. I think it's a feel, what I think it's, you watch them, so loud you can't hear them, And so when I go out and I recruit look at them as needing to see me. I want them not to see me, I want to I want to see how they respond knowing that they've got three more I want to see how they respond to their coaches, publicly or hugged when they do something well. And I want to see if that fits with me. I like that passionate kid that I like that kid because I want to find out what But I like that quiet kid as well, who seems that like quiet assassins, and for the culmination of building And so I know what I have, I know what I we have a great nucleus of young but who fits with that group to add to demonstrated to be a crazy situation for us all, I'm recruiting a few very hard to find that we already have in our locker you went in the locker room and &gt;&gt; Okay. So the portal has changed things, historically with college you expect to have them for four years. It was very hard to transfer. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; With the portal, you know, being effectively whenever they want, how your team development but &gt;&gt; You know, this is very hard because she was with me for five years. That's a thing of the past. Georgia Woolley will be with me for And so as a coach, what are you in it for? Some coaches are in it because so they can sustain their financial some people don't have anything else to do other with that job and they want to maintain You know, I'm in it for something way to have these young people with me, and so to share what helped me to become and to help young people find their why and to do it, we go faster and dig deeper because to be with me for the entire time. They are blessings, if they're not, from this amazing institution, let's make that really a high even if you go to two different if you do sustain all the rigmaroles of the you should go here, look at how much money you I know that you're going to be to help young people find because there's a possibility &gt;&gt; Okay. This is insightful, and especially when Sometimes people describe success is out of, you know, some down times. So, knowing that you've overcome how do you approach learning to continue to, knowing there's all these other potential How do you make sure that we focus &gt;&gt; Well you've got to focus on and you know, I think winning is easy. And that's what, like oh, she's I think you have to help kids win by getting up and to have the young people say, I That's winning. And I know that if they don't put the ball in I've been fired before, so I'm okay with that. But it's important that I see the mirror and and to me, success and winning is getting and really now they're saying, I have a dream about becoming something and And really tap into their passion towards A lot of professors, a lot of they want the now and let's get this thing. For me and why do you have people I do this because it's my give-back to the and they're my players and I try to help And the first step is waking up and and being with 30-32 pearly And then you go out there and compete and you're and help you become, there's a little that's never seen basketball played before, show what is it going to look like to her? And now, it becomes, I have this thing where Right? And if we can do that as a world, Winning could, when I was a student There was nobody transferring, because the about us waking up in the morning, that were small to others but big to them. You know, we had an AD called Mr. Jake when it came to hiring people and they sustained and the lacrosse coach and everybody you know, we had a good experience. I was having-- as an assistant and our head lacrosse men's coach and he said [inaudible] a plaque for you, coach. For me? I'm the assistant. He said yeah, you just like, nobody And I don't, I can paraphrase it, it says; more powerful than that, it is hope. Never give up. And that's what we need to get Syracuse back to. Seeing them people that can't make you great, that was winning championship after So I see soccer players, I see, I see our men's basketball players, But I think winning, I think that's how &gt;&gt; Great, so one of the things that you're but everyone says how great you are at So you shared about the why, you shared that you wake the team up and motivate them? Especially in advance of big events, like Is there a particular tactic you use to &gt;&gt; That's it, it's the why. I don't make playing against Arizona in NCAA a non-conference game that the world Everything matters. When you get out there and you and you representing something bigger that's the biggest event, that's how I motivate. I don't change who I am, you come to my like the players, I'm fist in That's who I am when I'm going against St. And that's why you're down 15 points and you've got the ball, have Because we don't change who we are they make different occasions Like this is as important as playing in this room needed to hear this message. Somebody in this room saying, and never come back because this isn't for me. And she or he is saying, I just as I've ever heard her speak before, and remind me to tap into my why. I'm coming back tomorrow. I need to be able to give that energy outwardly Might be nobody. But it might be one. If you can help one person as you pass along, then your mission is not in &gt;&gt; That's great advice that every game matters. Every moment matters. &gt;&gt; Everything matters. &gt;&gt; We live in a world of distractions, however. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Social media being a big one, where there's the opportunity but also where people develop and over the last three years has become and become known for their to their athletic or academic prowess. So, how do you coach the students to think about and they might be focused on social media. How do you kind of manage that part &gt;&gt; I don't manage social media. That's a Pandora's box that's But I can stay consistent about my I can tell them what my expectations I can share with them quietly, loudly, because they're not tapping into their and where their feet are, and if I see a to make some decisions on why why you're at this amazing Melo Center, to help young people grow and if the then that's who you need It's just not going to work for me and my &gt;&gt; Okay. So the business of with recruiting, with portal We're expecting to see some increased Do you want to share any thoughts of this is business school so we'll Do you have any thoughts about of sport, athletic college sport will be? &gt;&gt; I think NCAA right now It's every hour somebody's I don't know how it's going to sustain itself I said five years three years And before we just kind of got do as I say and that's all you need to do. And we followed the rules and Every rule is being questioned, you've got to do their thing, and you've got Northwestern and you've got student athletes saying And it's all real and it's all important. I'm not questioning that, but the questions and I think it's going to get too much, to have two power conferences and I I don't know why I think that, but I think it's to figure out how you jockey yourself into to run the athletics and television and those because everything else is going to be I don't like to be wrong but But it's going so ridiculously fast and that that rubber band, it has to pop, right? And I'm one of those people that sit back and and do my job, but if you ask me &gt;&gt; No, obviously something to [inaudible] so because you're from a large number of years here as a student, as a progress, improvements, in what Central what Syracuse University has done for of what's coming next for Syracuse University, and Central New York? &gt;&gt; You know, I pray that this We can go on the biggest stage, UConn, out because the fan base is ridiculous. I watched before our game started, I was and 45 minutes prior, it was into a women's basketball It's just time, I think that the they really, really have a great time. And because we're touchable, we're I remember when I used to stay at [inaudible] and so the students would have to wait and they'd wait out for a week and sleep outside and they would go to class and then come back And our football team was winning bowl the athletes would come out and bring pizza to It's not, we're missing something now. I don't know what we're missing, I was in a Going to Purdue and playing at Indiana, One game we had eight thousand and the students would just utilize sport as as a reprieve and just go out and be in that go back and these establishments We called it M Street, right across the street You know, we had two walls where you sat on and Oh, I know where you are. I don't think anybody knows that, that's We had this comradery and I'm hoping that it's cyclical, meaning that it's &gt;&gt; Great. Thank you, well especially I want to ask one more question, then I think they want to ask you some &gt;&gt; Sure. &gt;&gt; Okay, so my last question is, knowing you place of higher ed, we have a lot of into leadership roles in the future, what What can they do to really make an that you're able to, that you're able to make? &gt;&gt; Don't forget your authenticity. Don't let someone tell you what it Everyone that's in leadership right now, and they told them how to become Your leadership is right now as you communicate you don't want to go to the party I'm not going because I need to study. That's leadership. You see somebody struggling and you say, let's Let me dialog with you and I know I'm only 18 years old, but maybe That's leadership. You're going to your professors, and they gave you an A minus and you, Not it's not good enough. Lead yourself to where you belong and I think of what you stand for, and you become that you know, sometimes you're going to take it when you think is going to fit that speak negatively about you and say you're you can ignore them or you can use that as fuel to help you become something I just don't think the formula on how to lead, a little place called Brick They call it Central Village, You know, I had a single mom raise five kids. I was told by everybody that none of I didn't listen to them, I just looked at by coming to VA hospital every and becoming that person I admire the most. And because of her, I became. And because of her, we are doing well and we're not done yet, because So find that person that you want that no matter what they can't make you better and a part of your life, don't forget your at 17 years old, when you stand for something and you become something different and you &gt;&gt; Wonderful, thank you very much for sharing about your personal background and family. Well now, I think we have a mic, Josh has a please raise your hand and Josh &gt;&gt; Thank you. I didn't intend to go first but, I because we went to Nottingham at the same time. And I am really touched that And I was curious to know, I think to Nottingham gives you a different And I think a lot of the wonderful things of a city background that we both And I'd like to know what you, do you see what those seeds might have been which I completely agree with, what were those seeds or what were &gt;&gt; You know, thank you for that and go Bulldogs! Yes. I didn't mean this to I've never been coached by a man. I've never worked for a man. As an assistant coach I've always, and Willetta Spease was my high school coach and wanted me to join her team early on because she saw something Yeah, I love the public school system. I value that, my son was a basketball player in Buffalo and was going to pay his fee to go to public school in Buffalo because I believe in the trenches, more so as you move forward I didn't have to come back, I get to come back. I get to come back into this We didn't have a lot, man, we but we had enough to make us And I need to figure out how I need to get who are struggling with the word That if they see me coming from where So, yeah, they actually pay me to be here, but I would do this for free it's important that you equip And I think there's a lot of us, like yourself There's so many more that we have to reach and Thank you. &gt;&gt; Thanks. Other questions? Great, let's do that one and then-- &gt;&gt; Thank you very much. My name is [inaudible] your students. I was very touched by the things Because in a world where there's, you know, is and business school is down to P You know, how do you maintain You know, sometimes you have to make tradeoffs, Are you sticking to your guns, but sometimes that doubt creeps in. You know, you're sure like this is what you know, everyone else is moving. And you know you're on your own path. What are the things you would say onto those things that are true to their why. Thank you. &gt;&gt; I'll tell you a quick story, I was I never failed at anything in And my family was in Jamaica and I didn't know how to hold onto my why. And a professor at Indiana asked Like, share my story? Where's those stories to share? But I said sure. And so in front of 250 students, with them what this is what fired my families going to come back and I've that I'm strong even though I am weak. And it was difficult. And as the breadwinner of our family it And when they came back, we said we're going to internally you go through And a couple months went by, you know, I or three miles, I was running eight miles a day, with my God, and questioning him. What is this all about? And I'm trying to hold onto my why, but But eventually, a couple months went being that mom that'd drive her kid to I'd never done this before, taken my son-- my husband was going back to I was that person that every a person that can take their child to And so I got comfortable with that let me go and tell my story to everybody. And I got stronger and then it got to a point at Buffalo, and that was I had the most success at a Mid-Major school I would drive by to get to other places. I'd never stopped at Buffalo. And I kept seeing the sign, I just And we took that little school called University in the SUNY system, men or And we lost it in Sweet 16 and a gentleman ask that has lost their job, and they And emotionally, all that, what I went through I said, it isn't easy, it's necessary. So yeah, you're going to lose your balance you going to have to fail, you're going to have to question God, to question yourself, But it is not your right to quit because that speech I gave, so many, so that one poignant thing you said encouraged and I became a head coach now, I and you don't know why you do it, you just know to become so they can have the strength to be. And so, I don't have a real answer to that, other than the fact that My why fails me sometimes, but But I lean forward with knowing that there's &gt;&gt; Thank you, I think we have Anne, do you? Right up front Josh. &gt;&gt; Josh, you're getting a workout, man. &gt;&gt; It's good, gets the steps in. &gt;&gt; Appreciate you, man. &gt;&gt; Hi Coach. &gt;&gt; Hello. &gt;&gt; So I had the privilege of hearing to campus about a year or so ago. And you told us the story about and how you have spun it Can you talk about the, it's not failing, in the women that you coach, and losses, but there's wins and learnings? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I just, you know, that example alone I let my family down. I didn't win enough games to sustain my And then God steps in when I go to Buffalo and have the most success I've ever had that decision, I'm never failing. I just think that you win I've learned so much from Indiana, Hofstra, and I brought that to Buffalo and I've learned so much from even Buffalo and I we had four players that Four. And I had to find players to fill [inaudible] Mid-Major and Major, from all Mid-Major programs. And everybody was wondering In my mind, we're going to win a national To believe that you're not? A lot of people tell their brains to them, and they become what they think. And so what I just challenge my student I challenge you to believe that you can be be president of the United and come through this great institution and and that will be amazing for the world. And if you fall short, well you're You reach for the moon, just land The alternative was you didn't up to the curb, right, to step up. So that's the way my brain I'm not the best coach you're I just believe in everything I have that we're supposed to pour out, you can you are enough, let's go after this thing. So those eight players plus the And the following year, which was this with some more additions to And you know, what about the eight you lost? What about the 24 that we didn't And so, that's how I believe and I just think that if we can just change the world a little to do is tell everybody in this room and they're perfectly built for the to become the best version of themselves. And if you can do that, you're not only Thank you for the question. &gt;&gt; Wonderful. What a great way to celebrate Whitman Day, your approach, how you build This has just really been wonderful. So thank you so much for joining us today, &gt;&gt; Thank you. [ Applause ] [ Music ]