(hands clapping) - That's not gonna work for me, Linus. (hands clapping) So here we are, day two, because we shot a tour yesterday and Linus wasn't there. Oh, well you must have - We had this Linus. - So day one, we had this Linus, and then Andy gave us the So we're not sure if we're with this one or if this or what's going on. - But yeah, thanks for, thanks. - Really? before I did that. - That'll buff out. - But we're gonna test you and see what your camera knowledge is and if ever you don't have the answers, we'll just cut to Andy. - He knows a little bit, but like, he's definitely more of - Okay. a camera nerd. - Linus has a custom mic, we learned, tell me about this, like - Yes. just my Tentacle Track E, I used the stock mic that came Does it sound good with How did that start? - It just sounds a little better. - Yeah? well, what actually it started with was our old Lectrosonics packs, which were more reliable in our studio compared to the EW 110 G3s that we were using before that. - He's dropping numbers. - They used a mini XLR. - So I had to use that particular pack, I had to use that And then we used the old EWs for our co-hosts or - 'Cause you didn't wanna splurge on that many Lectrosonics? - Well, they're like four grand. - Yeah, fantastic. but anyway, the problem with Lectrosonics is they don't support time So then when we switched over to just the 3.5mm connector mics, we had to find some other but that didn't use the - How many mics did you go through to find the sweet spot? - We just picked something up from Sanken 'cause we figured it would be fine and it was fine and it was good. - Okay. we try to use, we used to use the 416s and then we switched over This is a more- - MKH50s. this is a recent edition. - I like this, this is my favorite mic. - So we use these when we I move around so much and Texting, whoa. And I never stop talking, and then we won't end up because switching between But you can catch us doing it if I'm standing still for an intro and then we have a sponsor spot. - Right. to my lav. I think it's pretty smooth, I don't notice it that jarringly. - It's pretty hard to notice for when we're allowed to switch mics. - Yeah, I can say though, I'm somebody who never lavs, I only use the like overhead mic, but I also tend, I don't - Yeah. this mic has a lot more, it's a lot more forgiving if I were to like be here, the 416 wouldn't even - Yeah. we're both actually gonna its like sort of orbit is pretty good. So I think the MKH50 for this kind of shot. but I just don't like that are not really necessary, - They sent them to us. - Yeah, 'cause it ain't - That explains why we have it, I mean, we did buy our 416s, so we bought I think three, right? - Yeah. we paid for all of those. - Do you know what camera - I believe it's an FX6. - So far so good, he's you know, model numbers, I think you were downplayed by your staff who said that Linus doesn't - I pay attention, the thing is, I know exactly what I have to know. Problem with the cameras these days is the sheer volume of them. It's not that the individual cameras are that expensive, in fact. - But you have seven of them - I don't know how many FX6s we own. - How many FX6s do you have in operation? - We have a total of seven. - Seven FX6s, I think we have - We have two FX3s, they're mainly for either sometimes we steal them for a car shoot. - For inside the car? inside of the car and stuff like that. - We've still got one or two - Expensive paper holders. - And they'll pull those out if they have a particularly that they wanna do. - Like for example, our fanciest lens is only compatible with our REDs. - Is that the Fujinon? we invested in this thing because it was a big fight getting the But basically, what I to have the full zoom capability, because I like it for comedic impact, I like it for being able to - You do have your sort but now you're using that's what it was, right? they're lighter. - Autofocus. This is nice to see. The cameras are in use. - You don't have like a oh, yeah, there's a couple REDs, and I've already deducted a - Yeah. like you said, when I and then I saw that they were I was like, well, that's some of the legacy stuff, Sell it, like what's - They're worth more to us - Paper holders. - And these are both the DSMC2 platform, so even though this is technically like a weapon or whatever, and then I think that one's a they both have the same capabilities, so they'll both do up to 8K60. - I'm disappointed, Linus. - Why? - Oh. - He knows his camera stuff, I was like, I'm gonna he is over here dropping DSMC2, 8K, you know what you're talking about. - Well, I have to know some stuff. - Quick, what brand of lenses are these? - I don't know, Sigma probably. - Damn it, yes, they're Sigma, I'm like getting upset that he They are Sigma, they're Sigma Cine Lenses. - Yeah, good. - And the T means they're better. - Do you know about T? - I know T means they're better. - Well... - It's like a tighter grading - Yeah, that's fair. - The requirements like versus f-stop, like T-stop means that like. Sorry. for light transmission rather than just like the size of a hole, you know? - That's all right. - That's a 600D. 600 D Pro or non Pro? - You got like an Octabox from that one. - Yeah. did you guys build like a - Yeah, a book light. - 600C Pro, I love that light, So we're bouncing it in and then diffusion material in front. How are you controlling these lights? - Just the ballast here. - You're not using like a DMX or remote or aperture stuff or whatever? so all the things, all the they're controlled by DMX because we're not moving them around. - Okay. on the floor, it's manual control. - Do you wanna talk about Because these are cool. These are running on an HEDT platform, So these are Threadripper Pros, and the reason for that is not because we need the CPU performance, they're just copying But because we needed all the PCIe lanes, so these are really cool These are from Sonnet and they But what's special about them is connected to a dedicated controller. So there are four controllers on the card. That means you can get the to each of these ports concurrently. Meaning that if we're coming that has a whole bunch of media, they can basically just and copy it all at once The other big piece of these is that they're using running at 25 gigabit. - The forest of C stands and light stands. - What's that? on a jib. I'm gonna keep testing you. not know what a jib is? I guess if you know all your It'd be funny if you - Yeah, yeah, I made them buy the jib and then we never used it. - This is the old ShortCircuit set, which now gets used as an LTT set. - Why did I just trip on your rug? - Because it's from Ruggable, we don't work with them anymore. - (sighs) That's hazardous, taking points off. there was tape. This tape was actually put and it has already been there's, what is it? There's the strong and then there's this force, this is much stronger than that. are you talking about? - Yeah, it's a joke. - Starting to use intermolecular as a way to get out of the and I almost died. it's a very strong force. I don't know how to work the Here we go. of all your little remotes and stuff? - We just know where they are. - No, I don't know, I actually don't know, oh no, here it is. - ShortCircuit ambient, there it is. - What's this? What's - It's labeled, it's called DMX. - Also, I know that. - But now we'll never know. for your computer, except and it costs thrice as much. - What about this? - What are you pointing at? - The lighting rig, yeah. what the hell is that now, 14 foot square? we have four 300d up there. And because fire department so we have to be able to open - [Gerald] Oh, that's sweet, It's opening on both or, wait, that's not - It is a bounce. like a book light in the ceiling. - Yeah. - The hats? Well. why do you have so many hats and wigs? - Well, because, in my line of work, you have to wear a lot of different hats. - But literally, Indiana Jones? (Linus singing Indiana Jones theme song) Or Indianapolis Jones. - You know, you never know, right? - No, I mean that doesn't make any sense, nothing you just said makes any sense. - What? It makes perfect sense. I mean, do you know how a cheap prop adds compared on lighting and cameras? - To what though? What do you, what? Like, reviewing a motherboard, what do you need a hat for? - Well, to make it entertaining. No, seriously, honestly, a little pirate hat and a sword or like, okay, this was one of when I did that video with the golden key caps, - And you think the hat is what did it? - That's a 10 million view It's part of it, because this, you know, ah, look at the golden keyboard, is better than this It's about cohesiveness, - I mean, I'm not gonna argue - Yeah. - This is the build corner, the idea was everything you Now it has all the keyboards We're working on a video that is how many USB devices can you We traded some like buddy who works in the production industry a GPU to do the work for us, - A single GPU? And then we just paid for - [Gerald] What's this cart for, Linus? - [Linus] This is our stream cart. - Who makes this microphone? - I don't know, but it's an RE20, I can't remember who makes it. RE20 is good enough, yeah, Electro-Voice, but RE20 is correct. So another FX6, the Technica M50, this one's rigged up body pack receiver, teleprompter, it's pretty like, you kind of - Yeah, yeah. - So this is more like a so it's more like. a shoulder pad though. - It's comfortable enough, - [Gerald] 15 mm rods it's comfortable. - Okay, so this one is a lot of Octaboxes. - Yeah. you have, Patrick, if you and look this way, it's - This is the motherboard - Oh you know what? - [Gerald] I didn't notice it at first, yeah, that's pretty dope actually. - Yeah, there's one in my old office. - You guys did like a powder - Spray paint. or something. - Isn't that cool though? it's pretty rad, yeah. I was inspired by, they when you go to Taiwan that's - Does this illuminate The WAN Show or anything? (bell dinging) Yeah, yeah, that happens sometimes. - Dad, I'm hungry. Hey hungry, I'm dad. (bell dinging) - Yeah, that's exactly what That's in case the power Nothing stops The WAN Show. - Is that hooked up to a power strip or like what all does that juice up? Like everything in here? - Yeah, everything here. So our router is on a battery backup, our switch is on a battery backup, all this equipment is on battery backups. The laptops are on batteries. All the cameras are on battery backups, so the idea is that if the power goes out, we at least have about, I think we can run for - Which models do we got here? So at the time. - [Linus] Sorry? Oh yeah, - All three the same, okay. at the same time because the idea was that we could have multiple crews and then not disrupt any productions that were still running - So C200 18-35 from Sigma, over here we got a 24-105. - Probably some other random lens. This is a 24-105 as well. - You're good with cameras, Linus, but let me ask you something, - That? - That's just like commercial grade. - Nah, nah, nah, don't get cheeky. - We're talking about - Oh, some aperture thing, I can't remember. - 300d, no, I don't know, I don't know all the different models. - And then, okay, this set was the one that I thought was pretty fascinating. - [Linus] Yeah. - So this is your ShortCircuit? - ShortCircuit. - Yep. of a run through last time. apparently we use FX3s - FX30s. - [Gerald] Oh, it's the APS-C size version of an FX3 basically. - Neat. that's what we're using today. - Oh yeah, Patrick's - Cool, oh I never get - [Gerald] There you go, - Ooh. a little bit, I feel like we might have enough coverage of it, but if not. This is cool how you can so talent will be over here. - We got three angles, we've got overhead, we've got sort of the main and then we've got - Yes. and the overhead are in manual These are like Sigma. - 50-105 and a 18-35 up there, I think. But they're both running And a single operator - Yes. this is overhead camera I think, right? - Probably. - Over here or something. - Probably. - Which is kind of wild doing everything. - [Patrick] You look good - So what are you looking at then? You're looking at the B cam? - I got a B cam here. - I got A cam here. that shows that camera? - Where's the third monitor? Oh it's in the middle. - Yeah, so I'd look at it, I would say, oh, so here it says Noctua. And you gotta pull focus on that. - Yeah, already did. if I drop it down here. - Done. - You audit this, okay, Patrick? I'm good for it. - Done. - Is he good? Is he pretty good at it? - [Patrick] Yeah, he's nailing it, do it one more time. - What if I'm holding over to this camera? - [Andy] Okay, then I have - Andy was talking about these go to FTP. Where is this ethernet going You know what I mean, like? to our server rack that used to be here and isn't here anymore and is just a network Yeah, there's a patch panel and a network switch right there. - And does that connect the ingest does? it goes back to the server room, so there's two 10 gig links that are running up over the top 'cause we're in a unit that was not part of our original We had to buy this one put it up for lease and we had no idea what was gonna move in. - Oh, yeah, I was told, so you just railed basically, right? - Yeah. just to make sure that our studio space would be safeguarded 'cause if some stupid something clang, clang, clang, all day, we wouldn't be able to shoot. So yeah, so we just have a conduit that runs all the way down and you could do a hundred without any signal loss, so which are probably these that are going back to the server room. And then we've got these two and then this patch panel runs - So you know how some people Linus flexes so hard that he sound treats by just buying another unit beside it and all this air in between for that room over there. - I mean. - Right? I don't know if I would put it that way. I mean, the space could - I mean, we gotta take And I understand that and you probably should've in the first place. - But that looks like crap, Linus. - So I basically said, &quot;Look, ShortCircuit there will be no batteries on the ShortCircuit set, not one, there will be no media cards And it makes so much sense. If you're not moving around, why aren't you just recording straight to a redundant, Like, SD cards are madness to me. You're basically trusting, it's not just zeros and ones, right? You're trusting all the that you've done to get that shot, which might be a slow-mo shot, it might be really difficult to recapture, to what is the cheapest, - Anyway, battery died. - In the middle of my rant about SD cards. - Yeah, Linus was literally ranting about how like SD cards are not the way to go. We were talking about FTP offload. The battery died, the camera shuts off, Patrick goes and gets a and then the file isn't We found it on the card - It's a reserve file, so but it hasn't been properly terminated. - It's still got the normal Well, you guys missed some that you're never gonna see, we'll just have to air the Andy tour. (hands clapping) - Yeah, well, we still - That's right. - Here, just get a static shot of me, I'll not even be looking into the lens. - I'm gonna look right here, so it seems like I'm - It's a podcast tour. - Okay, well, let's finish up and then I'll make this work. - We can switch back to the FX30. - Yeah, yeah. one of our videos is without us talking about it. - Love that. a cookie if you can figure out which one. (hands clapping) - Goddamn you, Linus. (hands clapping) I did have a question for you about the lighting stuff though, like I'm sure you got people that do this, but I've seen a few of the sets where there's a lot going on with either like negative fill or bounce. - The one thing that I ask is that we have no colored light spilling onto the host's face. - How many stairs did we just climb? How many steps? standard is 13 and 19. making this stuff up. If you were making it up, it's convincing. He's like, &quot;Well, the standard is 13, you know, the rise has gotta - Why are there always To minimize the number of trips and falls and blah blah blah. - What do we got? What's - What's really cool about this is that we're able to do in real time using hardware acceleration with our Ultimatte 12 4K. So you can actually see we are into our TechLinked set and then we can use this we actually just launched that channel, really exciting, we built So for TechLinked, this is just a plate, so it's just a shot of the But then, for GameLinked, it's a render of a completely new set. So it's one of the exceptions to my- - Is that that sort of spacey blue and red one or whatever? So it's one of the exceptions I'm willing to allow an ever so that we can get a actually being in that space. Getting in that virtual - Yeah, right, I mean, it's super cool. - Okay. a couple Titan tubes down here, There's a, whatever the thing is called where you get the hair of the host, a key light or whatever it's called. - Hair light, rim light. - Yeah, like an Amaran, maybe it's 60, it's short, it's stubby, isn't it? - It's a little guy, right? - That one may be turned but I'm not sure, it actually matters a how evenly lit the green because you can basically for the inconsistencies which is super cool. - So 120D over there behind that bounce. 300C, is this instructions on the side? Like 240 hue? Is that? - Probably. what purple to dial in? Do do do ah do do do Oh sure, now I'm in GameLinked. - [Gerald] One button and you're switching - What's up, y'all? It's GameLinked time. talk about tech. I'm talking about tech. - Quick games, game time. - Key lights are 300d Mark II, popular light around the Linus, what do we got? Oh, well, that's, I mean, I gotta take points off or - What, that's a slate, it's exactly where it was supposed to be. it tried to kill me there, I don't know. We got a little paracord you didn't burn your I gotta take points off for that. - Sure. why you have paracord hanging - Oh. on the C stand? on the green screen because we - Oh, so actually these that should be exactly where they are, Now, we have my proudest possession, my Super Chexx ice hockey game. Would you like to play? - All right, let's play Super Chexx. This is like my favorite game, so I finally just treated - [Gerald] Patrick's now a - Flying V! - Nah, you're doing great, - Why is my opponent I feel like I'm being lulled - Oh, yeah, a hundred percent. - Oh no. (laughs) - Accounting department. - That's my wife, this used to be my office. in 2023? Now it's Accounting Quarters, get it? 'Cause they're accounting quarters. - [Gerald] And quarters are - You can ding the bell if you want. - Theoretically, like an if someone wanted to sit on their laptop and that was in that it's just more editors. what your rooms used to be, let me ask you some questions that matter, okay? - Multiple editors working everybody has their own video? - It depends. No one is working concurrently but you will have- - That was gonna make me ask if you have anything like. And I'm seeing Premiere Pro exclusively. - Yeah, we do some but we are a Premiere - You hated Adobe subscriptions. - Of course I do. Why would I hate something If I didn't have to pay - Any standardization or is it preference on the editor or? - In terms of monitors, it's You know, some of them like. - ASUS, ASUS, ASUS, are these ProArts? That looks like a ProArt - [Linus] Everyone has at - What's your video editing prowess? Did you ever edit in the beginning? - You can actually find the the &quot;Fix Your Corsair Gaming Logo - Super Legit Modding Guide&quot;. That's the last video that - So who edited the - This guy. Oh. he's our production manager. quite a bit, but he never - Yeah. - Yeah, he's Ed-itor. (bell dinging) This was our kludgy solution the two units as you go down the stairs and then across and then up the stairs, because otherwise there to that landing over there. - Wait a minute, wait a minute, Linus. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 9, 10. - 11, 12. There's T-bar. - There's a space. - Yeah, because that's the T-bar space. - I'm so confused, I went - It's 28 foot ceilings in here. So when you have a total of 28 feet and you need to make you end up with some loss in the middle, so there's the ceiling joists. - 16 step staircase, eh? - And I feel like you there's so many harder - Well, I figured I wanted to test to see how much of a camera nerd you were, not how much of like a grip nerd you were. But I have been, just so you know, inspecting all of your working C stands to see if your knuckles were in the right spot. the right hand rule. It's more pirate code, - But the fact that you even I'll give you a pass, okay? - Are you gonna even try to beat me? - What do you mean beat you? There's no winner here. wait a second, there isn't This is a mini bar menu. - This is your score, You did well. There you go. - You did exceptionally well from a camera nerdery perspective, I'm impressed with your despite how downplayed I think you should probably - Paper holders. - You're now in a Gerald Undone video. - Oh, oh really? - Dun dun dun dun. - Oh sweet. - Yeah, no, I know, I know. - 10 Gigabits per second. - What is the speed of the internet? - Light remote drawer, we have a full bag of aperture remote here. - Whatever, if you don't like it, then you can buy a new building. - It's a set. - [Andy] A label maker, and we permanently wired so nobody steals it. - You now work for. (laughs) New merch. - Let me pack my stuff and move it over. - FX6, I'm like talking into the teleprompter. - I'm sitting here. not for you, this is Hey, Linds, they've got that same janky She was in love with these as and I hate them because you - Oh my God. three legs is not enough legs for a table. It's incorrect, it's an You see how tippy that is? And this thing doesn't attach. I hate 'em, I hate that, - But I can't see the - You know what I got at They're not doing that. Shut it down, Patrick. (bell dinging)