Hey, let's invite the new couple to exchange wedding rings. Husband, my wife, please give me more advice for the rest of my life. Ha ha ha ha ha yeah Li Chenggong, please stop fighting, okay? Oh, good boy Good. Distinguished guests In order to wish this couple will soon enter the palace of newlyweds. We have prepared a VCR for them. Please look at the big screen. Please promise me that you will cancel the wedding with Su Yu tomorrow. What's the rush? This stupid woman is probably planning my wedding with her. Uh-huh, it seems When the time comes, the bride is directly cut off from unmarried infertility. Love these It was a fake fairy road before. My own flowers, difficult women are all one If Su Tiannan is still alive, you will be angry again. Hum That's where you're really bad bad Ouch, this is a sweet pair of dog men and women Bride ah Old beautiful, this is to rob the marriage These two sisters really have enough fun with their adoptive fathers. ouch You have nothing to do with this wedding today. Go back Ouch, these people You're a junior bitch. A scum on the brain of a sperm, hey hey hey This scene is too wonderful it's really beautiful Ah. What do you think you are You motherless thing is too cruel Really a slap Today is our family Su Xin wedding If you still dare to touch your mother, you won't be able to keep Sun Yue from coming back. You don't think I don't know how many men you're out there. Ouyang Wang, an abominable woman like me, will not marry home. You gave me a bloody lip service. I didn't think Miss Su was such a person. I won't go if I want It's all like this and we're still having a wedding. It's a shame, it's I 've been comfortable playing hand games before. If you think about the little girl, I will you at any time. I told you to talk nonsense again I let you see that my brother Ouyang and I really love each other. Don't be a clown here. It's okay Make yourself good Seeing your failure, which man in the East China Sea dares to marry you? I can do it Well, I, uh, uh Beautiful bride, don't cry, don't cry Come on, come on, come on. Are you okay? Nothing to cry, inform the security Today is the wedding day of the Su family No one is allowed to make trouble The grand wedding, the Su family, has not been so festive for a long time. Today, as the eldest daughter of Sue's family I also came to give the Su family a happy The present, who will marry me I married you on the spot, only to eat hot Hey Don't mess around here Your daughter can get married, why can't I Who wants to marry me? er, lin fan lin fan marry me Lin Fan Come on, come with me I don't. Lin Fan District Marries Su Yu Ha ha Do you really want to marry me? Well, didn't the second young master of the Lin family become stupid after a car accident a few years ago? This idiot is a perfect match for the bitch. Ah ah ah ah, hum I am willing to marry Lin Fan as a wife Would you like Lin Fan willing, who Uh uh u Not into the West Lake, just shipped back from Italy yesterday. The cake turkey is all ruined Smelly of cheap gas Want to know you listen to add chaos to the family Let go of me, husband. You let go of you You ah You don't know what you're doing. Am I enough? Get up, Lin Fan Uh, uh, what's wrong with my husband This stupid cake on me The bad guy molested me. Ouyang had to molest me just now before Lin Fan threw the cake on him. Shut up, you really think you're gold-edged. He always said that Ouyang coveted the jade girl and stopped quarrelling. If Su Yu hadn't opened it in old lady Su You didn't even have a chance to get into the company. Don't mess with me The five-year period has arrived. The power of mixed yuan has long been refined. It's time for revenge. Why is life dead? His son fled to the neighborhood I'll find him as soon as I can. How did this happen? Dunshank found him unconscious for more than ten hours The doctor said that his intelligence could be affected in the future. Miss Lin I'm really sorry about your father and your brother. If there's anything I can do to help You just say Mrs. Su, do you have a heart Ha. You're welcome, just call me ah hong What did you rob the killer and let him get away? The doctor says he's a fool. What are you afraid? At the beginning, it was agreed to kill them and help me get the shares of Jinxiu Tangzhuang. What to do now The plan has only changed, not to say that it cannot be carried out as scheduled. Give some patience. Which nightclub in the names of Ouyang Xuan and Liang Wei will send a group of girls to the island tonight It is said that several rich businessmen want to have a sea-sky feast. Do you want to do it tonight? Get in the car. Come on. Brother, I'm not going Then I'll go Don't go, you say it again I warn you, Guo Shao is famous tonight. Give me money to serve Or I'll chop you up and feed the dog to the car. Uh-huh. Someone filmed us. Ah ah ah, who let you shoot Come on, let's look at the camera and give you a close-up. Lin Fan, the silly young master of the Lin family to thousands of young brother-in-law So what do we do Are you also stupid Today, I haven't seen him for years. You have to want to help him Then it's bad luck that we meet him today. When the time comes to kill him, he will learn to go to the oil man. Hey, Xiao Juan, give me your cell phone or I'll kill you later Who are you going to kill Are you fucking stupid? How can no one escape driving I already called the police You guys take the money and buy them tickets and go home. Thank you. If the police ask anything, you tell the truth. But there's only one thing Tonight you have no responsibility Understand? Why did you collapse your face all night? What do you usually like to play outside I -- I don't care Please don't tell us today in the company. If it were someone else, if it was passed on Your cooperation with the Su family will be affected. I'm sorry, don't forget why I put you in law. Did Suxin sleep? fell asleep Hey, what's up? Let you save people, didn't let you hurt yourself Did you see how I beat them up? I saw, two hours ago, the whole platform news Ouyang Xuan's nightclubs have seen a large number of collective prostitution in turn. Mysterious citizen left a lot of evidence at the scene Ouyang Xuan seems to be unimplicated Just issued a statement to clear the relationship It's just an appetizer There are more wonderful waiting for him So what are you going to do next It's getting late. I have to go home quickly. Otherwise, my sister and Su Yu will suspect By the way, I'll see you perform tomorrow. Where are you going in such a hurry? Should not and Ouyang partner nightclub had an accident, ready to run away Where's our passbook? Where have you been Why do you need a passbook? Murderer, I don't know what you're talking about Who the hell put you up to my dad's car? Tell me, your menopause is early What nerve? The day before the accident, you drove my dad's car out for maintenance. That night you had an extra 1 million of anonymous transfers in your account. I, Huang Zinu, want my father's life for a mere 1 million. I'm warning you If you have proof, you can sue me. There is no evidence. Don't bark here. Go Hey. Bowen Morin Yo Your old lover Why did he show up at our house? The Lins didn't let me I came to inform you You hold a 30% stake in Fairview Tangzhuang This morning has been completely acquired by me Hum You fucking bitch You're united. You always listen to people fuck me, right I, you, you, you, you, ah, ah, ah, ah I'm going to sue you for borrowing my money Now move your head and think clearly Now who is going to sue who Maureen You're here, just in time for me to suspect him of murdering my father and my brother. Please help me sue you That's me filing for divorce Wenwen Have you not been developing abroad? When did you come back I 've been on track for overseas investment companies for years. I want to go back to China to see the domestic market environment. Six months ago, I met a partner I didn't know about your company until later. Since the accident between Dad and Lin Fan Splendid Tang suit has been a lot of impact No matter what I'm here this time, I just want to tell you what it means. I 've decided to use an overseas company to take a stake in your splendid Tang suit. Get you back on the market. The current situation of our company is not optimistic. I don't want you to take that risk Jia Jia When I left you I 've been so guilty So now I have this ability, let me help you Sister, since Mr. Lu wants to help you Just accept it I haven't had time to meet you. You are Miss Su Jia Da, right That's right. At the same time, he is also the creative director of Huayue clothing group. It's not easy for you Two women make a home. Mr. Wen, Miss Li, is here Our hotel how also don't say a word Deng is always there. You have a reputation on Wall Street. You splendid Tang brick this time is really like a fish in water Hua Yue is the industry giant In the future, I still need Wen's advice. Where to say advice Well, I'll leave the party alone. We'll talk next time What about today's regular meeting Our creative planning department is mainly aimed at the promotion plan for the next 5 years. With a new revision We're going to wait What is it? Wen Zong Later you go to the financial settlement salary Starting today, you won't have to work in the garden. Uh-huh. Ouyang You came just in time Let me introduce my son-in-law, Ouyang Everyone should know Starting today He will officially replace Su Yu Our new creative organization of the Huayue Group Yes, what does this mean I need a clear explanation You leaked our company's trade secrets to a rival company. Is that a clear explanation? I 've never done anything to hurt the company You don't frame me Are you framing me for cooking Yesterday, Deng Bowen and Lin's business party, you seem to be idle Do you need me to help you remember Yesterday I was just a family gathering If a family reunion is a leak of company secrets... Then you have dinner with so many company bosses every day. Then what are you My devotion to Chinese is obvious to all. I have a clear conscience Workplace changes are normal. Don't be so narrow-minded I really want to let go, no way This is my family's company I won't say the same thing again April you also don't give face to face You know, divulging company secrets, according to the laws and regulations. We can always get you sued This is not the way you talk. You know your own business Now you have no right to speak here Uh-huh. I forgot to tell you I have been promoted to deputy general manager of the company since yesterday. The virgin is a director of the company, unanimous decision Check out quickly I 've seen your salary clearly. You guys have been working together for a long time. Waiting here to kick me out, right? People who have nothing to do are out now. I just want to kick you out. What's the matter? You don't think you can really beat us now, do you? If it weren't for old lady Sue's sake I kicked you out of the company years ago I wish you a bright light in your husband's company. Luo Zong How many people do you think are suitable for my induction ceremony Let us meditate together Creative Director Wish Director Ouyang a smooth sailing Smooth sailing everyone Great. Ouyang, we can commute together in the future Qingqing I'm warning you as chairman You must not patronize the flirting If you don't take care of the company's internal affairs I will deduct your salary Mom, you can rest assured I will supervise for you Confidence makes him work hard. My position is higher than you Why do you supervise me I am your husband, shouldn't I supervise you? Qi Qin Ouyang is much more experienced than you in this field. You have to work hard with him. Grandma, isn't she abroad? Mom. How do you come back without a notice You want me to die too Grandma, Mom. I... I'm not your mother I only have one daughter-in-law. That's Su Yu's mother Today, all the employees of the company have something to go home. Besides, these employees were interviewed by my son and I in person. Select me as a director of the group You have to take into account their background when you speak. Don't forget, you're just an agency now. You killed my daughter-in-law Seduce my son, step by step to deprive our Su family of origin. Why is your character so bad? Do you really want Ann? I have never done anything wrong to the Su family Then your daughter seduced her fiance. This is not these overhead my good grandson and kicked him out of the company This has no Hey, don't be angry This is all a misunderstanding You, the son-in-law, have no right to talk to me. Know I'm not feeling well Forced me to go abroad to recuperate Then it will harm the foundation of our family for generations. All right. Mom, I was wrong Don't be angry Anything to say at home Xiaoyu Mother is not good I know you won't do anything wrong to the Sue family. You help me persuade grandma not to cry in front of me You're a woman. Every tear is a crocodile tear. If I die, I will become a spectre in red. Come and meet me. Don't try to hurt my child Don't be afraid Grandma has wronged you in recent years I'm moving home with your husband tonight. Grandma's None of you want to drive Su Yu away. Hum Child Let's go Uh, grandma, grandma, grandma, grandma Often the doctor. My grandma, how is she Borrow too.Don't talk anymore Uh-huh Doctor Mrs. Sue, are you okay? Old Mrs. Sue I'm afraid I won't get through this. Is the doctor mistaken? Grandma is fine, how can I endure it? But what about this week? Mrs. Sue's body has been in a state of exhaustion. Plus the night's overemotional So please, doctor, can we think of another way I'm sorry, I did the best I could There must be another way, right? I heard earlier that Boss He was critically ill and was maintained by drugs. Can we also try No matter how much money we can afford, drugs and instruments will cure the symptoms, not the root causes. You still accept the reality and spend time with the old lady. The last paragraph is me. There must be a way Everyone, let's prepare for the funeral as soon as possible. Uh-huh Wife does not cry I'm Su Yu, it's okay We'll find a way to fix your grandmother. Western medicine, if not, we will try traditional Chinese medicine. Mom, stop asking foreign doctors See what foreign doctors say Didn't you hear what the doctor just said Your grandmother has less than a week left. What do you mean? You just want to see this grandma die, right Oh. Life and death have a life, wealth is in heaven Old lady song will happen like that You and I can't ah ah ah What bitch? When you say destruction, you really expect him to die. I don't know what you're talking about I only know one thing The doctor has just made it clear Old Mrs. Su's body does more useless things. Tonight wouldn't be like this if it wasn't for your grandmother. Even if there is no thing tonight Your old lady Sue's health won't last long. Su Yun, what the hell is going on here This woman is going to kick me out of the company Grandma came forward and said for me that she not only promised to pass the wedding. For the last time, firing you is a unanimous decision of the board Your grandmother fainted because of physical problems. You don't want to get everything into my head. Let's go. If you are really good for your grandmother Just don't make a scene here I'm not leaving Grandma said she wanted me to stay. I'm staying here tonight until she recovers Uh-huh Husband Accompany Wife Accompany Wife Yu Fan Brother-in-law is a grandmother said this evening She said she wanted to meet Lin Fan Starting from this evening, Lin Fan and I will stay at Su's house. What are you staring at me? I am also the eldest daughter of the Su family in the Ju Qing Bureau. This family is not up to you alone Wife does not cry, wife does not cry Lin Fan I'm so tired If something really happened to Grandma... What can I do later Uh-huh. Lin Fan Accompanies Lin Fan in His Wife Not Afraid of Idiots Lin Fan is not stupid I'm sorry I haven't been able to take care of you I didn't even take care of myself Uh-huh. This two years wronged you Ah. Did I stop you at the scene It was only a few days before I came back on my word. What kind of amusement park is our Lin family? I'm sorry, Miss Linda. I was when you were disgusted with my brother and intelligence I still don't think our Lin family is worthy of me. No, you want compensation or something I can give it to you It's not about losing money If you don't want to continue this marriage, just put up with it. We Lins can't stand the slightest insult Isn't that hard? Family marriage is not the woman you play. I was going to seek revenge from Wen Hong and them for this matter. God gave me a chance. Another way to approach your so-called family Your heart is broken and I'll make them pay I won't let anyone who cares about you have any accident. How about Have you had enough? Can you feel good about being beaten in the face by this dead old woman in public? The doctor said she won't survive this week. What are you afraid of him What does this kind of time mean? You 've been going on too long I don't have the patience. You're gonna kill him I just want to get it. I want the plain heart. I think we should discuss it with him After all, what does he have to do with him When I get the Su family property I will naturally tell him things really Mrs. Sue, you are so kind-hearted Shouldn't have left so early Daochang He said The power of the mixed element can penetrate the original god. Can even reverse everything Is the third kind of death back to life Ah. It turns out that pure energy loss consumes so much physical strength. Uh, uh... It hurts ah ah ah ah You are sick, isn't it why bully Lin Fan Uh-huh We're taking him to the station I think the person going to the police station is you. What's wrong with you in the middle of the night? Last night my mother passed by grandma's room Seeing your stupid husband trying to kill someone Fortunately, it was stopped in time. Otherwise, I can't imagine what can happen to kill people. Are you mistaken? You against me even if Why did you frame my husband? I was worried about my mother's body in the middle of the night. I wanted to see the cut. As soon as I entered the door, I saw your husband pinching his mother's neck. Evidence is conclusive Don't even think about denial No, no, I didn't It's bad in the bones. It's just that I'm really out of sight. I didn't think it was a murderer. Shut up. My husband wouldn't do that. He wouldn't do it But what if it was you, abetting him Fuck off, come on, follow me to the police station No, no, no, no, no. The power of mixed yuan should be a filial son immediately. No, I Uh-huh. Fortunately, the power of mixed yuan works, grandma. Uh, grandma I was in a coma But I'm not dead yet In the past few hours, my house will be a mess. Mom, you misunderstood It's Lin Fan. He's Lin Fan wouldn't do such a thing. I know who is good and who is bad. I'm just presbyopia, not blind Is there any misunderstanding between you I'm doing all this for Grandma Su Just now they framed Lin Fan He wants you to take Lin Fan to the police station. Uh-huh. Han, if she doesn't have any other ideas Why is she in Mom's room in the middle of the night? Then why are you in Grandma's room I'm worried about mom's health You appear in grandma's room is worried about grandma's health Lin Fan is going to kill Do you want Lin Fan what you said Don't what you have there. You give me out Do you want me to call the police before you dare to take it out, take it out Glucose, the doctor said, mom When I may not wake up, I am very worried I just want to give my mother some glucose to maintain nutrition. I didn't think, Mom. Mom, I'm sorry It is not good for me to be a daughter-in-law. Is I can't make you satisfied I didn't make a good impression on you But I never wanted to hurt you Grandma, don't be angry You see. There's no way my mom would hurt you 4. I'm sorry I misunderstood that your husband is really good at acting and will not be an actor. What a waste Who do you show this midnight snack? Hee hee come Mom, why are you apologizing to Lin Fan and Su Yu Mom, this one is yelling at Lin Fan to kill people. How could I apologize for such a misunderstanding? Brother-in-law, I'm sorry Afraid of grandma's body hard hard No one wants to bully you We'll have the chef over tomorrow Let him make us a full Chinese banquet. Eat, hey, hey, go, hey, hey, hey, eat, eat Ah, hum Come on, yeah. Not expensive Don't feed you just take it I wasn't there when you married Suyu This is my wedding gift to you When I was abroad, I heard that you and Mr. Lin had wronged you. Children must have been very hard these years Take care of Su Yun in the dark Maybe you how he When I'm in a daze All the things are seen Thank you for luring me to the enemy Although I don't know what method you used But I'm very grateful to you I know you must have your own reasons for pretending to be like this. Old Mrs. Sue You must pay attention to the body I don't have this old bone for long. That's why I came back I just want to help my good son do something. Uh-huh. Can you promise me one thing? If one day I am not You must take good care of Su-Yu, I It's a secret for both of us Jia Jia didn't make it clear what happened on the phone. I got a text kidnapping Lin Fan Lin Fan, wake up Lin Fan I'll go, what's the situation I was kidnapped, Lin Fan Lin Fan Someone will come and save us. Who kidnapped me? Granny, have a glass of milk first Don't drink, said how many times Call your sister and brother-in-law again Grandma still no one answered Why did it take so long to go out and do some shopping? It's not good for me to find them, Mrs. Sue. What did your father Li and Su Yu get bombed Miss Su Da, don't waste your energy. Wen Zong Lin Sheng is dead The son fled to the neighborhood I will find him as soon as possible Shen Tao, who sent you Leave us alone How much money you want is easy to discuss Hey hey hey You don't really think I tied you up for money, do you Come and smile, hey hey hey hey hey hey Sanye, let me see I really blame Sun Heshi's son-in-law In such a short time, where can I gather 0.3 billion? Don't worry I have more than 0.2 billion in my Swiss bank account. I'll find another friend to figure it out. You guys don't have I still have more than 10 billion in the accounts of the Sue Group. Mom. The company has a planned use for this money. Misappropriation is not good for the company. Su Yu is my granddaughter He's in danger now Why can't I take the money to save his mother Su Yu Something worries me too However, the company has several projects to be carried out at the same time. If you use the funds at this time. The impact on the company will be great. You are thinking of the company Or is this whole thing about you Grandma. How can you say that about me Mom, mom. I know you won't change your mind about me for a while. Master If you think of me like that I will really be very cold You're not acting in front of me anymore. If there's anything wrong with my granddaughter and grandson-in-law today I'm going to use you as a cushion. Don't be afraid I will immediately inform the group finance to let him take money to save people. Old lady Jia Jia su, let me redeem the hot spot when the money is ready. It's not convenient for you now Shh, I'm leaving You Su family also didn't take you seriously You don't mess around Kill you first Kill your loser husband again Dizziness is normal when blood flow comes out. All you need to do is keep your breathing steady. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, stop it. I sent you the money. Mr. Du came alone. That's right. I sent you the money and released it immediately. Here is 10 million cash, the rest is in the car. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh You gave the money I see, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, ah The boss said, none of you want to run today. Uh, you bastard, you're not going to die a good death. The Su family will not let you go. Fool wants to die, doesn't he? I'll kill you first Uh-huh. Well, eh, ah, ha, ha Uh-huh. How much money did I give you years ago Kill my father and son Aren't you a fool? How do you know all this He's not a fool, who Who are you? He Feng, the Taoist leader of Heavenly Heart View Drive, drive, stop. He killed my dad In the past five years, have you learned this forbearance? The life we met was saved by karma. It's not about killing and hatred. eat it this is mixed yuan bead The power of mixed yuan comes from Sansheng One from the meridians not virtual two from the perseverance amazing Three layers of negative gas retrograde, four layers of air solid As long as you concentrate on your practice, it will take time. You must be able to do something with it. He's just a puppet The man who really killed your father I'm still staying with you at Sue's. Can't lose big because of small I know. I used some powder for Deng Bowen's wound. Currently not life-threatening Thank you for the reminder just now Over the years, you should have mastered the power of mixing yuan I just got into the calculator some time ago. The life cycle of the force of the mixed element is significantly shortened. Still that sentence No matter how strong your power of mixing elements is, you cannot abuse your power. Otherwise, you will be turned by the force. Remember the original cold taught by the Taoist leader You, you, are you sure you won't stay in the hospital for observation for a few days? It's okay, the wound is also stitched up Don't worry if you don't get hurt. I'm sorry. I'm the one who got you into trouble If you were asked to deliver the ransom I really dare not think about the consequences This favor is owed to you by our Lins, okay These are my voluntary You don't owe me anything Ah, what about Lin Fanan and Su Yun The two of them are fine Now go back to the Su family to report peace, then Xiaoyu You can laugh grandma to death Grandma, don't worry. Lin Fan and I are fine Starting tomorrow, Grandma will get you a team of bodyguards. 24 hours to protect you. Grandma, you're exaggerating. It's really okay, how could it be okay? Son This has never happened to our Su family in Donghai City for generations. Grandma has already contacted me by phone. The chief must get your people out. My good grandson-in-law, are you all right? Hey hey hey, no hey hey Su Yu It's great that you guys came back safe and sound What about the man who kidnapped my granddaughter It's so cheap to do such a dirty thing behind your back. Sooner or later, lightning strike, not a good death Mom. You haven't eaten all day Now that Su Yu and Lin Fan have returned safely Then I'll call the kitchen and let's have dinner. Have you contacted? After more than a dozen phone calls, no one answered. What if they get caught and give us up? This kind of time you don't mess up canIs it? I 've worked together so many times, I shouldn't have. Now that we're still here, we'll prove it's okay. Do you need more help? You don't think things are big enough, do you? Why is it so hard for me to kill someone? The most troublesome thing now is that the old immortal gets in the way all day long. I suspect there's someone behind them helping Could it be that Lin is pretending to be stupid? It's so weird It's all unreasonable Let's put the killing of Lin Fan on hold. Now, Mrs. Sue, she's watching so closely. Any more trouble won't do us any good. So what else can we do now Don't forget that the most influential is always the Lin family's splendid Tang suit. Now they have capital Can return to the state of 5 years ago at any time I really didn't expect the Lin Fan family to end up Didn't his sister just get divorced some time ago? That Leung Wei, where is he now Hey hey hey The Lu family will not let you go Ah. Was I wrong Or are you bothering him? Hey, hey, Lin Fan Ah ah Let me ask you something. Did someone come to the scene to save us during the day? Uh-huh. I don't know If you think about it, how did the bad guy who kidnapped us suddenly disappear? Someone must have come to save us, right Ah. I don't know don't want to uh, don't want Don't want to don't want to uh-huh, don't ask again If you ask again, you'll get through it. Headache, headache, okay, okay, okay I don't ask I don't ask Don't worry Lin Fan We are safe now We are safe. Go over there Your health is just better than going home to rest. It's okay. Thanks to the powder of Taoist He There's nothing wrong with the wound. You don't have to spell that Oh, you're welcome. The four of us were a whore, volunteering for a desperate row Let's report on our progress. Splendid Tangzhuang's shares scattered over the past five years. I have recovered 85%. Soon, you and your sister will be the sole shareholders of Fairview Tangzhuang. very good The next step is to increase the operation of the production line. In addition, I need several large new product launches. so that the public will know that we exist Your sister and I have already planned the activities for the next six months. Recently, we have also been recruiting new people. will soon be implemented Then when will the old love between you and my sister rekindle? All right, don't joke with you How are the three of them now? Private Detective Feedback Here Recently, that Leung Wei has been in and out of casinos and bars. Anyway, a stall of mud What about Wen Hong and Ouyang Xuan Uh-huh. It's all true Hey. What did I say at the beginning I just think these two guys have a different relationship. You, everyone lost ten dollars to me. Ha ha ha ha ha How long have they been like this As far as I know, it should have been more than half a year. I really didn't expect this I have doubts They are mother-in-law and son-in-law This wouldn't be disgusting, would it? Wen Hong was only 22 years old when she married the Su family. Now it's only 40. For Ouyang Xuan, she is just a mature woman. This is too strange Something's wrong Wen Hong will definitely not do anything bad to himself or his family. He knows better than anyone the risks behind this Unless unless Su Xing is not his own There is this may not be biological Can't Su Tiannan see it I don't know. Su Tiannan died shortly after Su Xin was born. Wen Hong alone has been holding the lifeblood of the Su family But before long, I will make everything in his hand disappear. I'll help you make a beautiful Tang suit, Maureen. Help you collect their incriminating evidence Hey. Count me in. I can be your cooking monitor, ha, ha, ha Ah, Lin Fan You just walked away If you don't leave, you should be suspected. You should also go to bed earlier. You left without this. Ah Too sleepy recently This can forget You 've been like this since you were a kid, and you're still so rash. Don't you, too? I tell you, I have to be a lawyer since I was a child. Otherwise Otherwise, how? Otherwise, you're a bitch Hey, you call me a shrew, right You are so strong, you I tell you, what you are saying now has insulted my personality. I can sue you anytime. Shut up All right, Counselor. How much are you going to punish me? You'll be punished, all right Don't make trouble with you, I have to hurry back Otherwise, you're really suspicious, okay? Then you go home, Lin Fan, another laborer. What is it? These bad people will be punished. That's it. That's it. Uh, uh, uh, uh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah Hey, hey, hey, uh-huh Hey hey hey Er, hey, hey Er, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey The goblin gives you his life. Don't worry You go take a shower first Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey Li Ge Good interest It's really Viagra. Don't let me do such disgusting things again next time. Brother You owe me millions. Now I have to fuck my sister, right Only Mr. wronged I haven't written yet, have I? And you 've seen What I saw was that you wanted to rape my sister, and I stopped it in time. It's not interesting for you to say so It's not fun, is it? I... Uh... Ah ah ah ah ah ah ah Wen Zong Viagra Hungry Eat Thank you, Mr. Wen. Ah ah ah Wen Wen's total meal is also yours. Mr. Wen, I'm sorry, sir I'm sorry Why did Ouyang do this to Viagra He is also our partner. Hum, hiss, ah, ah, ah, ah Wen Zong I owe you guys money I must think of some way to return to beg you not to, ah Viagra You don't have to pay back that money. You just got divorced recently. Turnaround needed There are 7 million here Take it first and tell me if you don't have enough. Ah, ah Wen Zong What do you mean by this I mean, you'll be more eye-catching in the future. Wanshan Ah, ha Mr. Wen, what do you want Hey The agreement is clearly written. You won't get a penny for our divorce. Smelly bitch, what divorce agreement do you take less pressure me I also know the law. My lawyer said that you must pay for your derailment in marriage. I don't have much, either. Just give 30 to 50 million Are you crazy about money? Uh-huh. If you don't go, I'll call the police. Ha, ha, ha, then you go Say it like you can do to me I connected you to Deng Bowen on the Internet. I see how round you are Uh-huh. Security Security Hum Hey hey hey Elder sister, congratulations Fairview Hall has been a hot spot recently. How did you come Did you not return to the company today? Peers held a new conference I think I have to learn how to learn First row outside. I saved a place for you and Lin Fan We'll talk when we're done. Okay, uh-oh. Go and see Dear reporters and friends, take more pictures. It is this woman who copied our new products of the current season in Hua Yue, Mr. Wen What do you mean? What do you want to bring these reporters here What do I want to do, you have no idea Just three hours ago Our legal department in Huayue sent me such a message. It clearly indicates that you copied our new design this season. This can't be There must be some misunderstanding I don't think it's possible How can your splendid decades-old brand copy me? But the facts are in front of us. This matter has not been investigated before I'm not going to respond Wen Zong, Jinxiu Tangzhuang has just recruited a group of new and cutting-edge designers recently. There is no need to copy I haven't said you You 've used your position to reveal company secrets over and over again. You eat inside and outside things Su Yu If you want to make the development of your husband's family better, just say so. All are relatives. We can't just stand If you have proof that I leaked company secrets... Although you can go to the police Otherwise, don't give a bloody lip service here. Isn't this evidence enough? Journalist friends Please listen carefully Given the seriousness of this incident Our company has decided to formally file a lawsuit against Jinxiu Tangzhuang Ten billion 1 billion, 60000 You must remove all new products immediately. And apologize to me in the newspaper for a month, you give me more close-ups. What is it really like to take a clear picture of these cancer in the clothing industry? Hey, hey, hey, Lin Fan, stop it, uh, uh, uh, uh Video, what video? This is when Liang Wei came to my office to ask me for money, ah There's another one to look for, and here's another one. Boss. I have already copied the design drawings from the Lin family's computer. Hey. I kind of figured out It turns out that Liang Wei asked me for alimony. I was the one who helped you steal the designs that time. Ah ah, Lin Fan praises me Ha ha Is this evidence enough to prove your brilliant idea of Hua Yue's condition? can't change Er, hey, hey, hey, you promoted you to be the creative executive of China Resources. You actually play plagiarism Wu, forget It's not what you think. I'm too disappointed in you. Uh-huh. From today on, you don't have to worry about China Resources. Wan'er, listen to me Ah ah Miss Lin What happened just now was a misunderstanding. I'm really sorry today We'll talk about the rest another day. You give me stop Uh-huh. Dear journalists, please listen up This is not the case with our splendid Tang costume. Introduction, we would like to file a complaint with the Huayue Group 2 billion to claim compensation for plagiarism and framing. Did you receive our lawyer's letter? Ah. miss big lin There's no need to kill You are the one to kill. Let's go hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey hey Er, hey, er Lin Fan, um How did you get these videos Uh... Lin Fan, good pat No matter what This time, our good Lin Fan saved us, Jinxiu Tang suit Hey hey hey Ha claim 20 you tell me how to return a little thing You panic like this I don't believe what he can do to me. You are not afraid that you will put the blame on me. I will take the blame. You give me calm down Have we touched less of this kind of lawsuit? If his family wants to sue, let him sue. This kind of thing has not been a pretty person for 35 years. I did it from your home who Are you listening to me The most important thing now is before it gets worse. Control the form that is good for us. So how do you do it? He's not trying to promote new products. Let him go I 'd like to see how many trees there are. Don't worry I won't let anything happen to you Mom, what are you doing? Oh, isn't Jinxiu going to sue us? We're discussing the lawsuit. The nanny said the meal was ready. Then we ah Let's go down together Uh-huh. Thank you for reminding me this time I have a chance to seize the evidence that they set my sister up. I should be thanking you If it weren't for you, our Sue family would have been finished. As long as we're here, nothing will happen to the Sue family. You went to great lengths to find someone to invite me back. And doing so many things secretly. Tell Grandma why. I shouldn't have told you this In fact, I 've been planning revenge on Wenhong for the past five years. Revenge what revenge Wenhong, he killed my father Grandma, you're too old to work hard. There's something I can tell you Then you must not act on your own. Just convey what I mean. Let him do it according to the contract. If there is no Elder sister, why are you here here is our huayue senior internal meeting If you have something Please go to the front desk to make an appointment Don't think you can do whatever you want in our company just because you are the boss. Why did I come I think your stepmother should be very clear I'm sorry. I really don't know, Mr. Lin, why did you come here in person? All the raw material companies on the same day to Jinxiu proposed termination Don't even think about it, you must be behind it. You, huh Do you want to hear what you're saying? I was behind it. Do you think I am the Buddha Hands to cover the sky You're not popular enough to talk about cooperation. Lay this on our company business. Negotiations fail every day. If other colleagues also failed to negotiate, it would be our Hua Yue's business. Is there any misunderstanding? No misunderstanding Boss Chen of Silk Square and Chief Xue of Tianyue The original contract has been negotiated Now because of a quote from the so-called chairman of the business community Don't dare to cooperate with us Even if I really want to do your company What can you do with me, okay? Now even the eyes do not itch Is it true that you are not very good Wall Street injects money to expand production line I'm going to see how you expand it now. How to produce Which one are you going to do? What does it matter to you which one I do? If you don't like it, you can leave your job. Our group doesn't need a black sheep like you. Why did I just hear a dog barking at the office? Alas Mom, why did you come to the company? I am the chairman of Huayue Group Do I have to report to you when I return to my company? Mr. Lin, I have already known about what happened to you on the way here. We have never unilaterally imposed any sanctions on your company. All this little movement behind Mom. I'm doing all this to ensure the normal operation of Huarui. Is Hua Yue's normal operation carried out by suppressing other companies? Mom. Do you know what you're doing I know very well I...What should have been done more than ten years ago. That is to set things right Starting today, I will re-manage the size of the transaction Xiaoyu will be my executive director Hey, mom, it's really bad luck. You can see it anywhere. Mom. I know you're still mad at me But there's something I 'd like to say What else do you want to argue here All along, I didn't mean to target Su Yu. I'm not even thinking about hogging the Sue family. I just think, so he needs more time to precipitate my more lines You 've changed a whole chapter. Don't make yourself so clear. What do you think of this black heart nest, I clearly know What do you want me to do so you can forgive me Get out of the Sue house with your fake daughter, and I'll forgive you. This look is unexpected, I will find out these dirty things behind you Son, I have already sent someone to find out what happened earlier this year. The white bone demon in your belly died I went to the orphanage and bought a little girl to cheat me. I heard Susie a little bit of exclusion. Su Yu is now eaten by dogs Grandma must have misunderstood How could Su Xin not be your granddaughter? Shut up your dog man, can't You two are disgusting Paintings of the dirty things done by the Su family's body. I really think I can't find it I don't expose it, but I want to leave you with a sense of personality. Pack your own things and leave the hostel. For the sake of our mother-in-law and daughter-in-law I'll leave you some money to settle down. Well, how can this be What the hell happened Grandma fell down the stairs The doctor said the doctor said your grandmother died of organ failure How can there be something else I used the power of mixed yuan to treat old lady su. shouldn't I? Is it Grandma? Did Grandma say anything else before she died? Old lady Sue grabbed my hand and said I hope I can help him to love you well During the day, Mrs. Su also said that Su Yu would be the executive CEO. How can you be in charge of the group now? That's exactly what Mrs. Sue said. These are your one-sided words Who can prove that I can prove that you believe what you say Believe it or not, these are the facts. We went home and had a good chat with your grandmother about the day. And then she chose to forgive me And let me continue to manage the Sue Group. Su Xi I don't know if what he said is true. Grandma was already in the ambulance when I got home. It was just us and your grandmother. If you don't believe me I can't go without you Things I haven't asked clearly Old lady Sue is dead After a few days to deal with the matter I will formally take over the Sushi Group Hey. Xiaoyu, let the doctor handle grandma's affairs first. Grandma's death. There must be some strange file for me. Don't leave us a penny, Mom We hide the will like this Will I do this for you to see clearly, this dead old woman Not a penny left to you Are you thinking about anything else at this time? Don't worry about your wife. Miao Jie's money to the Su family Did you find out who the lawyer who helped this dead old woman make her will? It's like that lawyer named Maureen Maureen How did I hear that name? Ask, isn't that Lin Fan's legal adviser? Lin Fan Call Leung Wei to get things done before the funeral. Leung Wei, hum Help! Help! Help, help Help! Don't scream, lawyer. No one can save you in this wilderness. Who the hell did you send What do you want? I'm dying. Even if I tell you who I work for, who does it? You are nothing more than medicine, right? I can give you whatever you want. I knew you 'd say that There are a few stinky money great ah Yo Where is the original will that you helped Mrs. Sue revise? Wen Hongpai, have you ever been here Shut up. If you want to die, don't be too miserable. Just say it honestly Even if you kill me I also backed up the will documents. No matter what, my colleague will make the will public. I think you are tired of living I see you are tired of living Hey. How did you find this, you Aren't you a fool? Don't you come over here Come again, I'll kill him horizontal trough Ah, ouch You're getting better and better at this mixed power. Or is it Taoist Chang He that you knocked well? Ha ha, what is your situation Over the past few years, our Lin family has brought you infantry. I didn't want to move the killer or betray him. Hold on, no. This is a waste of Lin Fan I do it because of the small evil, let it go Ah, hum I'll keep you alive There's a lot to ask Right? I'm fine. Does it hurt? It's okay. Have a good rest these two days so as not to be infected. Yeah. You're going to keep looking at me like this If there hadn't been so many things in your family before. Will our endings be different Molly. Actually, I know You married Su Yu to get closer to your enemy. I admit that I did think so when I married Su Yu. But these two years I slowly like Suning I can't believe we 've known each other for over 20 years How long have you known him? Don't you have any other feelings for me? Wulin In fact, I have always regarded you as my own sister Take you as my family Never if revenge ends Do you want to continue to play I hope you can make a real decision. No, you shouldn't be talking about this right now We have more important things to test What exactly did Liang Wei kidnap you? What did I do wrong God wants to do all the bad things to me. She put me under house arrest and bullied my fortune abroad. Also any outsider to lie to me I should have done my best to oppose my son marrying her. I didn't I 've brought a scourge to my family. Mrs. Sue, please calm down Can I help you? I'm too old to fight this bad woman, help me change my will. I witnessed too much death. What do you mean I designed Mrs. Su to help Su Yu run the overall situation. And I also teamed up with Mrs. Su to stop Lu Hong's actions several times. And I will also Su Qing's life experience As well as Wen Hou fornicated Ouyang Xuan Therefore, Lin Fan, it is not your fault that old lady Sue was killed. It is Wen Hong. What we need to do is to give old lady su's will these days. you should have a good rest first. Don't make the will public for the time being. Why? I'm going to go around once Even I have a hunch that old lady Sue met you when she made you Then what do you need me to do What about you? Just take good care of yourself at the river leader's house. I want to go before Miss Sue's funeral. Ah ah ah What are you going to do to me Don't mess around Well, I know the law too. What is Maureen trying to hide in such a hurry to kidnap him? I don't know. I really don't know what the plan is. I am when the monster died duck Just because I have nothing Then don't blame me for being polite Since you don't say it, I'll check it myself. Ha ha Taoist leader, what's wrong with Lin Fan Call you something unknown I gave Lin Fan the power of the mixed yuan. After five years of cultivation He has put his power to good use. Then what is he doing The Power of the Mixed Element The fifth heavy magic snake is my shed So you're saying he's here How did you get here Didn't you say we 'd meet at the hotel? Laugh what talk Mullina, I 've cleaned him up Is to tell you is not appropriate, less So less people know we can't. That's right. Old lady Sue's will The will has been placed in a very safe place. You don't hide, quickly take it out to me Anyway, the will is not public What are you afraid I'm going to destroy it with seniority. Don't worry about big sleep. Sure enough, there is something to hide from me Hum By the way, didn't you find it on the way here? I told you not to worry about the will. All generations are at peace But what I want to know is Why is Mrs. Sue's will so important to you? Is there anything in it that's not good for you? What do you mean Hum Or that Mrs. Sue's death has something to do with this will. What did you and Wen Hong do Have to hide, uh You know too much Uh, uh, Lin Fan, what's wrong with you Take a deep breath and relax your hands for too long. It's easy to be unconscious. Just slow down. Two The two were killed by Ouyang Xuan What, no way I have to call the police Molly, slow down. They're guilty now. Just confirmed my conjecture Last time we suspected that there was something wrong with the Su's daughter's life. Might have something to do with this Right, um Has Su Xin's life experience been found out Recently, Bowen has been looking for someone to investigate. I believe there will be results soon There are still two days to go before the noise of old lady Sue. This Wen Hou must have thought he had a winning plan for five years. It's time for a life to escape back Why does Lin Fan always run out alone these days? The last time I abandoned the ban, there were also those activities between Liang Wei and Ouyang Xuan. He's you. I 've been running out for the past two days. But that's why I should be asked for this ecstacy. Should not ah Why would he pretend to be a fool? Steal something. It doesn't matter if it's stupid, but it doesn't matter. Try your agility That's no good. It hurts to hit a person with a mobile phone. Hiss ah ah ah Wife sugar sugar Uh-huh Sugar What sugar you brush your teeth, can't eat sugar Uh-huh, no, uh-huh, uh-huh Uh-huh. Wife kiss you, Lin Fan You don't pretend Lin Fan When will you return to normal What does it actually mean for a while? You 've been lying to me What the hell are you trying to do Su Yue, listen to me, Su Yue Listen, I'll tell you slowly, Su Yue When are you going to get back to normal? Or have you been lying to me all along? Lin Fan Did you have fun lying to me? Listen at will, I'll tell you slowly I'm not trying to lie to you It's just that after I told you the truth I'm afraid of you what the truth My father's killer five years ago The murderer What you say is true I swear I didn't say a lie Well, if he's gonna kill you Why? Later, my name was Sin Tuo In order to find evidence, under the guidance of a friend began to play dumb So you 've been playing the fool, just to investigate him You can put it this way. Then you marry me, and you're about what happened between us. I will explain it to you slowly But the most important thing right now We still have one thing unresolved According to old lady Sue's wishes Starting today, I will officially become the chairman of the Su Group. Good. Heard about this kind of thing Can confirm my daughter, Su Xin will take over one of the Hua Rui under the Su Group Be your general manager, good Can't you talk to everyone Please give your advice in the future. To be a general manager, you have to walk away like a manager. You so casually perfunctory two sentences How will you accept it later, Mom? Let's talk about it later. Ha. In addition Our other eight flagship stores And the design plant in Donghai will be managed by Ouyang Xuan. We, the Su Group, will also formally acquire the Japanese clothing under the name of Ouyang Xuan. Thank you for your trust. I also hope that the Japanese Overseas Chinese Group will do better and better under my leadership. I also hope you can give me more advice. Yes, is it true or not? So will ah Just these things recently I know there's been a lot of gossip about me in the company lately. Said I was so angry that my mother-in-law bullied Dafang's daughter. But I want to say what you want to say Want to say these are true right You're no longer a member of our Su Group. Please go out. If you say no, it is not a reason. Mrs. Sue gave me the Sue group Now I'm in charge here How do I remember Grandma? It seems that I have left all the company and Su family assets to me. You're a dreamer. Mrs. Sue told me on her deathbed I 've been taking care of the Su family for more than 20 years. She wants me to help her continue to manage the Sue family well. So I really don't know where you imagined these crap. I can prove Before she died, old lady su used her last strength to give her fortune to Mr. Wen. The content is exactly the same as Wen's instructions. It's really a show to open your mouth and shut up. Why didn't I realize you were so good at acting? If you don't believe me, you should always believe your grandmother's will. There's your grandmother's autograph and paper on it. Your will is false Did the lawyer who gave you the fake will die in a car accident last night? You think you're making a movie now? What is my mind in control I think you're crazy about money. Is it my decision to think about money or are you crazy? You say I fake Say I kill evidence, I have evidence Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Lin Fan a fool Why aren't you stupid? I'm sorry to have recovered from a little stimulation recently. Even if you go away, your luck will restore your sanity. Then you came empty-handed. There's fart evidence Don't worry Maureen, the evidence is here Why are you here? Why can't I be here Or Mr. Ouyang, where do you think I should go Get rid of these troublemakers Notice By the way, call the police The bigger the trouble, the better. Mr. Wen, why don't you listen to the distribution of the estate before making a decision? Wen Zong Why don't we go out and sit down EverybodySit tight, yeah It's not a bad thing to let your employees listen. After all, they have a right to know How abominable is behind the leaders they once served. The following is the content of the body that old lady Chen asked me to change two weeks before she died. I am Su Chen Fenglan on September 26, 2022 at 10: 00 a.m. Attorney Maureen Changes to the distribution of my will after my own death I, Su Chen Fenglan, after his death 32 companies, enterprises and properties owned by the Sushi Group All assets in the bank account of the Su family will be inherited by Miss Su Yu. In addition Print a few words casually and say it is a will. Who are you fooling? it's really old lady su. ah, yes, yes, yes My God, old lady Sue Above these contents You confirm that the revision was made while the mental condition was stable. Right? Right. I'm sure Even if I die, I won't leave a penny for Wen Hou and his daughter. If these contents have no other meaning We will be signed in the presence of two notaries in the lawyer's office. Wen Zong, can you still say this word is to beat him this time? I don't understand why little darling did this. Because you're not from our Sue family You're an abandoned baby at Nanshan Orphanage Wen Hou bought the dean Jiang Yu and his dead child off the bag. Mom, Su Yu lied to me, didn't he Hee hee me Ah. Mom, what's wrong? Something happened at home, haha. Jinxiu will give you an explanation, that is, he Dear media friends, give these two more close-ups. They're the most famous murderers in the city of Donghai. Li Fan What are you talking about Do you two murderers have anything to say about killing Mrs. Sue? Jing Ma, how did you get back to Su Xin You still call me mom This woman is not familiar in the back Uh-huh. Ouyang Xuan ah ah, ha ha What are you doing with my mom There are more exciting, I didn't let you see It's really the picture can't bear to look straight I'm afraid I didn't take it out because of the long needle eye. If you media friends want I'll pack it for you The title is called the three or two things of the Su family's mother-in-law and Xu's son-in-law. Ouyang Xuan, you scum man You scumbag, calm down. Ouyang Xuan The witch really likes you, you idiot Ha ha Indeed, you two have survived for at least 67 years. Killed for 67 years. In order to suppress us, the Lin family united to kill us When things are revealed to you, you simply kill my grandmother Lin Fan Su Yu. Is everything you say true? I can testify Five years ago, Chi's father and son were killed by Wen Hong. The two of them also have a Liang Wei Liang Wei, where is he Liang Wei has been killed by Ouyang Xuan The two of them gave thanks for Old Lady Sue's site. Send the two committees to the desert After the matter was leaked, Liu mou was taken This is when his child died Why don't you just buy you back and fool all of us? He doesn't really mean it to you He's just trying to use an attachment to seize our Su family's property. These are your side of the word Now you guys find a savage and say your words like accusing me Sun Yue I can prove that they killed Grandma What did you say I was actually home that night, Mom. Do you really want to come with me What do you want to do? You die of old age, still die Two murderers, we Li family have no grievances and no enmity. Why do you want to do this Is there anything else to explain How to do ah, Ouyang you give me stop Su Yu, you bitch Uh-huh Surrender yourself and don't kneel down after doing so many bad things. miss lin zong su I will be responsible for my actions I will give my full cooperation to testify against mild crimes. Hey hey Huh. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, I am beautiful, Ms. Wu Are you going to play crazy to avoid legal sanctions? Uh-huh. I don't know I don't know Er, hey, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha Don't worry, they will be punished by the law. Lin Fan What's wrong with me Things are over, aren't we Are you trying to say, should we end it? What do you think Do you remember the launching ceremony of the zero clearing program Zeroing Plan, 6 years ago 6 years ago, all the clothing companies in Donghai City launched a public welfare project Help Plan At that time I had just returned home I saw a confident person on the stage. At that moment, I was fascinated by him. You noticed me that time I was going to wait until the project was over and then find a chance to meet you. But I had an accident first. In order to investigate the truth of the matter, I began to approach Wen Hong By the way, let's get to know you more. Lin Fan You're independent and fragile You hide all your weaknesses Is to want to survive in this troubled environment I'm close to you Nothing wants to take advantage of you I want to say that we have a chance and time to start So, you 've been playing dumb for five years. Yes, so that their team's vigilance can be minimized. Then Bo Wen Mo Li, what about you Four years ago, when I knew that Wenhong was behind it I quietly contacted them both. I 've been planning this for five years with the help of a friend What? When I knew something like this happened to your family, I came straight back. Sister You have worked hard all these years Ah, ah, ah, pain, pain, I am your elder sister Something so big has happened Why didn't you tell me earlier? You made it clear to me earlier I can still deal with him with you. As for treating him like a good person for the past five years? Uh-huh. I'm not afraid they're after you Lin Jia Lin Fan's starting point is good Don't blame him You too, Bo Wen. If he wants revenge, you can accompany him to revenge. Isn't this all your business? So I 've been spending a lot of time with my brother learn the glib tongue And you You have made Su Yu laugh for two years. How can you compensate? Uh-huh. Sister is right I was cheated for two years. You're still playing dumb Shh. It took so many days to come You don't have me in your heart Oh, don't you joke What are you doing here What about Morrie? I thought you said he was here. Maureen came to give me some medicine. What are you doing here What medicine to send I am old and have more physical problems. I am not as good as before. Line Then you have a good rest Hey, you son of a bitch What's the matter with Red Lotus? Mr. Lin Stop it. Didn't you all call me smelly before You still know What can I do for you? Where are you going? Plane tomorrow night. I 've been dealing with you for five years. I should also have a good rest, rest can not go Forget it. Lest you see things and think of people Don't do this. In fact, I am really happy to see you finish all this. At least we're all safe now Can you take care of yourself? You 'd better take care of yourself first. Fool, I'll go first You have my phone to call me anytime The evil spirits went in, yeah The reporter said that he lost his mind on the spot. Now locked up in a mental hospital What about you? Didn't you find it when you came? You really think I'm you Stealing the piano was filmed and could not be found. This time you don't dig at me All right. Eat quickly The train has been parked there for too long for fear of being suspected. Yes, Uncle. You can't let me out. Your brother, for the sake of our relatives Just stop hurting us, okay? You have forgotten what I did to your family before, haven't you That was before You're a fugitive now, with a few lives on your back. We're being questioned by different people every day. I really dare not provoke you That's enough. I don't want this My dad quietly told me that day, you have to bear it first. After this wind You quietly sent you out I can't stand a moment Then there's nothing we can do What else do you want to do Don't go back and kill that Lin Fan I killed Lin Fan What do you have to kill him now Become like this, there must be another hidden Arrest that lawyer. Arrest him for what? Girl. The girl's outward orientation is still stable. Girl. Give him an hour hand and don't give it to him. He can't mix yuan beads. It's so wasteful I bought some powder. It's good for you to wake up, girl. I'll get you some water right away. Girl, don't be afraid I found you on the side of the road Did something happen to you? I don't remember Here is good Here is my Taoist temple My name is He Feng, just call me He Daochang He Daochang, are you the kind of Daochang I saw in the movie who can exorcise demons? Hey yo It's all a lie in the movies. Which have so exaggerated No exorcism There are some skills. Girl, my head is a little dizzy Do you have any medicine for me? There you are. Wait a minute. I'll get you the powder. What are these Forget it, you don't understand these It's all I 've developed over the years. Some ah Can also enhance physical fitness, prolong life So powerful, wouldn't it be that some pills can also make people immortal There are still many problems. 13115 And their Taoist priests I think it's just so Did something nothing I just gave you a few shots of muscle relaxant. As long as you obediently cooperate with me I guarantee your brother I 've searched all over and there's no chance that Maureen will lie to us. Impossible I found one of the best hypnotists in the country. The address he gave me is right here What did you do to Mo Yan I just found someone to pay for a good service. That scene was an animal. I won't tell you where the witch died. Don't say anything I'm also a way to get you to talk. Uh, uh, uh Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh You want me to tell you where the Moonball is again. Hey, Maureen, what's going on? Taoist priests, are you all right Ah, have the guts to come at me As long as you don't tell me where the mixed yuan bead I have plenty of ways to make him die. You can't tell me where Su Gu Yuanzhu is. Yo, big lawyer woke up Drink some water You lost a day when you were hypnotized. Don't be thirsty. Don't you pretend here Lu, you killed me Don't be shameless I'm warning you I can kill you anytime Today is half your responsibility. What is the real fuck off You have the ability to kill me Or I'll make you feel better, huh Danger Who can save you now? Is it your Lin Fan or your He Feng I forgot to tell you Your Taoist Master Ho should be feeding the dogs at the junkyard by now Why did you kill him You murderous maniac, ah ah ah Who told him not to cooperate with me If he had handed over Huo Yuanzhu earlier, nothing would have happened. I 'd like to see what Lu Yun made Lin Fan so powerful. The original is this feeling Master goes to Huayue Zhiyi Group Master Aren't you going? Go. Send you to hell, long time no see Miss Sue Wake up. Ouyang Xuan, don't you want revenge? Why bring innocent people in here He's innocent. Your boss brought me into this. He killed you all Ouyang Xuan Even if you kill us, can you escape the law? Kill you, at least I am very happy ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Let them go. Lin Fan, you're finally here I don't want to bullshit you You give me release If I don't let go What's wrong with beating me and my husband with your mixed power? He was fined more than 200 babies, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Walking dead, driving, driving Lin Fan, didn't you think I also know the power of chaos. I just got the power of chaos. Hum That's all you got. I told you to eat only one mixed yuan Dan, but it can't be hidden. Lin Fan, today I want you to come to a bad end Yeah, yeah. You, you, you, ah I am Beiqiang Niang, ah ah ah I'm gonna kill you, you... Ah. Are you all right? Lin Fan, what's wrong with him? The power of members has been turned back. Don't worry, we're safe.