So the goal that we want in AI to make decisions by itself, take in this video I want to look at some frameworks, and look at a new agent which focuses on the idea of making do a variety of different tasks. I'm going to cover the key changes that are already out there. and also at the end we'll look from this to improve your own So up until recently, we've thought in thinking about agents. One has been the whole sort of model do as much as possible. So this, I would say, is like Where you would see You would see things get in loops. You would get into all and then the other style was perhaps were really controlling the engineering kind of graph where you map from node Now, both of these systems Obviously, the style where you leave challenging In that if your LLM makes to go off the rails and your results to basically trying to work out lots of And that can be seen in things like agent, using the wrong tools, getting the second way of really strictly really good and much more reliable, And it also means that your agent gets to So one of the things that Microsoft's last week is called Magentic-One. And this is one of their early approaches So the idea here is that you want to not to make it so the multi agent system is going to generate, bad results out, etc. So the key thing that Microsoft is have a multi agent architecture where of different tasks without having instructions as you go through this. Now, the way that Magentic-One approaches first off, they've got an the orchestrator's job is to agents, it will use next in there. in some ways, this is very similar things that we've seen in other can build quite easily in Swarm, etc. The difference with this compared to the So they've got a series of other choose to basically pass things off to. So those agents include a web surfer, browser and a way to manage state and So this is using And the idea here is that this can any page, extract information out of So it allows us to do a whole typing, reading, summarizing, The second agent is the file server. And this basically has the ability around your local file system, etc. The third agent, and while I think too much in here, could be one of the So this is a specialized agent for collected from other agents, So you could imagine that you off and read some docs, etc. And then the coding agent can take that and then the last sub agent is So this basically has the ability install new packages, new Okay, So the orchestrator agent high level planning, deciding what And another thing that's that the orchestrator's job And I'm going to come back to this that sets this apart from some of the So the orchestrator will create it will then gather And then at each step, it's going information to give that agent, et cetera. Now, this is where it really, gets key things that the orchestrator And actually, these are two ledgers. So we've got a task ledger where it's it's got this process ledger where it done, has this been completed, what's that we haven't done, that kind of thing. So it starts off by making its plan and each step it creates a progress ledger, checks what's done, checks what's not assigning things to a sub task or a Another key element with this is that it's not making progress and it's go back and update the actual plan. by updating the plan, if it's running here is that will update the plan to errors and then go back to subagents or So this is probably one of the key different than some of the agent ideas it's got these multiple loops of both sort of plan, and then this inner loop steps of the plan, and making subtasks, And being able to do sort of reflection Another idea that they're really of multi LLMs or multi models. sometimes that might be a VLM in for a small language model, etc. it might be a specialized fine And the idea here is that you would they're using GPT-4o, for being like you could have smaller agents that use are really good at one particular thing. So you could imagine, they don't have could be a sort of RAG agent that you use a fine tune small language model that your company or your organization, etc. So if we look at this, we can see basically says, Describe the latest So if we look at the orchestrator's about, okay, what it's going to use, and it decides, okay, what it's So one of the interesting things planning stage, it's already deciding we can see that after the web surfer general purpose AI assistant that has and linux commands, and it's going to use So it's also interesting here to thought things that are going on here. So we can see that it's planned of given or verified facts. There are no specific facts or Facts to look up, it's basically got It's going to look for things volumes, facts to derive. then it's going to have some And I think the educated guesses part up in some ways, some few shot examples of things that would come out of this. And then we can see that, it to follow as best as possible. Use the coder to write Python library to retrieve latest data. Then Retrieve relevant information, Python script and extract results, So after that, the orchestrator kind saying, has the request been satisfied? And then it says, no, the, the request has retrieved or analyzed the latest SMP. we've got the sort of in the loop, We are making forward And the next step is to So again, you could think of this as like where you're getting the model to think do and what's working, what's not working. Next up, the Coder agent writes some code, Y Finance tool if you've used that before. it's also using Pandas in there. And you can see that it basically decides, trends and execute it to get the latest Again, we go back to the orchestrator, script now, again, we can see, is the has been written to fetch the latest SMP being made, but still not finished. Next up, we have the executor, It's obviously getting the data back. We can see that it gets the latest that, okay, it actually compiles So the latest closing price, recent recent low price over the last Now because the request in this case not giving a whole bunch of data. You could imagine, that we what happened during the day. or tell me what happened each day Now, finally, we come The orchestrator basically says this data has been, completed. And now it basically compiles that so in their paper, they also have actually how it actually performs and I think starting to see with agents is people they can test out how an agent actually measuring the LLM, we're measuring the So another big contribution that also introduced Autogen Bench. So Magentic-One is built on is basically the Microsoft framework And with AutoGenBench, they've now built for running benchmarks, that allows for different parts and different components So they look at three And while I'm not going to go into of the challenges at the moment is system against another agent system. Really, the code for a lot of these You're kind of benchmarking the the outputs and returns from tools. So I've talked a lot about custom tools out of tools formatted in a certain way. one of the things that I was thinking many ways you could look at their sort of in that the orchestrator here really a web surfer agent, a coder agent. And it looks at those things as being a obviously, they have access to multiple So if you want to try out AutoGen actually have a look at this yourself. This is now in their AutoGen repo, bunch of things for using it. They're recommending using which makes sense if you're going going to access a file system, etc. But the cool thing is you can also come like, okay, what are they actually How are they actually So you can see early on, I checklists and stuff like that. And you can see here, they've given or verified facts. It wants to come up with Facts to look up, facts to derive, so you can see that there's quite a bit doing this, for actually putting it And if we come into the various agents in tools that they've got are, how they're we've got the tool schema of what they're tools and stuff as we go through this. So I think this project is really useful. Even if you're not going to use the you're able then to basically learn from their tools, how they structured their So overall, just to sum up here, this are that things are moving Check out some of the how they have the orchestrator agent use both the task ledger for coming ledger for sort of, having a sort of it can measure what it's doing and Now the thing that I've heard is that project, and we can expect that there you could imagine them over time adding the orchestrator could use, Again, have a more generalist agent that can it having to be planned out step by I do think that Magentic-One is It's definitely worth you checking out. Like I said, go and have Go and have a look at, how they I'm certainly going to be playing ideas out here, perhaps taking some of I use, just to take these lessons away As always, I'd love to hear What challenges are you having, Like I've been saying to people on a lot of the challenges are not around designing the prompts for the Anyway, if you enjoyed this video, you want to see more videos like this. If you want to see more in depth videos, will talk to you in the next video. Bye for now.