amna: This weekend, El Salvador is holding its general election, and all eyes are on incumbent president nayib bukele. He came to power in 2019, and has since overseen a vast and brutal crackdown on gangs that terrorized the nation for decades, arresting more than 75,000 people. His popularity has soared, but his government has been accused of mass human rights abuses and dismantling democratic institutions. Judges allied with bukele re-interpreted a constitutional ban on re-election, clearing his path to run for a second term, along with his vice president Felix Ulloa, who sat down with me in San Salvador earlier this week. I asked him how long his country can continue with mass arrests and detentions. &gt;&gt; This is a big change, and it happens because our policies regarding dealing with the gangs, the violence in the communities, allowed the president to face this challenge. When we took office, that was the first challenge, to bring back the peace, the harmony to the communities that were under the control of the gangs. Once we declared war against the gangs, we started dealing with the criminal structures. Now we have over 76,000 inmates. The sustainability of this process, as we said, is now in the hands of the population because now the people trust the institutions, this is a new country. Amna: You have gone from having the highest murder rate in the world to now having the highest incarceration rate in the world. The criticism is there are a lot of innocent people being rounded up and detained. Can you continue with that? &gt;&gt; Take a look at the big picture. We have so far and 76,000 inmates. From those, 90% of them are verified that they belong to the gangs and the criminal structure. Amna: 90%? &gt;&gt; 90%, because from all of these persons who have been captured over these two years, more than 6000 have been released because they proved in court that they were innocent. Amna: But 6000 people, if I may, that is basically one out of every 10 people or so you are rounding up are innocent. Is that acceptable to you? &gt;&gt; We try to do our best, but we are not perfect. We are human beings and we make mistakes. Amna: What about those who have yet to be released? &gt;&gt; That is part of it. You want to have a perfect job, you can never get it because perfect is the enemy of the good. If you want to be perfect, you will never have that. So, you have to do your best, and you have the duty to recognize your mistakes. Amna: At the same time, one of the reforms cashed through means that mass hearings are now acceptable. Up to 900 people in a single hearing. How is that justice? &gt;&gt; Absolutely. This is an innovation of the penal law. Amna: 900 people to be tried at the same time, that is due process to you? &gt;&gt; It is due process because it is under the law to do that in a legal process in court. You have to create the provision in the penal code so we modified this responsibility, which in the past was each person. How long it takes to conduct individual process for 76,000 cases? It would take hundreds of years to do that. The only way is to proceed and change the structure. Amna: The criticism, as you know, is this the nice people do process, that there is no way hundreds of people can get a fair trial at the same time. What I hear you saying in your mind is the end justifies the means. &gt;&gt; No, no, that is not right. But I am saying is you are witnessing a different country for the 21st century. If you were a lawyer, you could understand. I am a lawyer, and I started in penal law. Amna: As a lawyer, could you defend 900 people at the same time? &gt;&gt; Yes, why not? Because you are not defending 900 people. You are defending one accused. Amna: Can I ask about another reform I know has gotten a lot of attention? The law was changed so that children can be treated as adults in the legal system. That was lowered from the age of 16 to 12. 12 seems very young to treat someone as an adult in the legal system. Help us understand why that was necessary . &gt;&gt; Because young people from 12, 13 years can kill you, and they want to kill you and were sent to kill people because the leaders of the gangs, they understood that under 16 years old, they were not charged as adults. So they sent the kids to kill people. Amna: So they should be charged in the legal system as adults? Is there any duty for the state to protect those children, to rehabilitate them? &gt;&gt; Absolutely. But now you are facing young people under 16 years old, 15, 14, who have 2, 3, 4 homicides. That allows the gangs to kill people without being charged, or escaping of the justice. Now we have closed that. That is a loophole that was in the law, and then we closed that. Amna: As you mentioned, you are a constitutional lawyer. You previously said when you looked at your constitution that it was very clear that it did not allow for consecutive presidential terms. That all changed in 2021 when the supreme court magistrates who were appointed by president bukele reinterpreted that closet so he can run again. So here you are, running for four consecutive terms. Do you worry that it weakens the constitution to have judges who are viewed as allies of the president change it in his favor? &gt;&gt; No. The legal standing will be weaker because the justices of the supreme court were appointed by president trump? Amna: I am not saying about here. El Salvador. &gt;&gt; In any place, these supreme court chambers interpret the constitution. They said -- if you checked that, you will find the base to run because that article said the person who is the president. If you wants to run, he has to fulfill two conditions. First, it should be in the first term. Because it was not in the second term. You cannot run. Amna: Can I ask you, when the court ruled that this new interpretation of the constitution was coming out, U.S. Officials came out and said that decision undermines democracy. Do you agree with that? &gt;&gt; Because they don't know our constitution. Amna: You are saying they misunderstood? &gt;&gt; Absolutely, 100%. Amna: Can I ask how you would characterize the current relationship between El Salvador and the U.S.? &gt;&gt; It is really good. We have an excellent ambassador. In the past, there were some misunderstandings because of the type of ambassadors we had, or from the administration here. They didn't understand what was going on. Once we respect each other, the relations are better. This is one of the most important alliances that we have. -- We want to maintain a good relationship with a state that has been our ally, our friends, and we want to be partners. Let us treat us as partners. And doing that, you have to maintain a good relationship. That is what we are maintaining now with this U.S. Administration and whoever will be elected in November of this year, because it is not a matter of political preference. We are not Democrats, we are not Republicans. We respect the administration and the president selected by the American people. Amna: Vice president Ulloa, thank you for your time. I appreciate it. [Laughter] -- I appreciate it.