A group of French tourists at a hotel only for foreigners. We've slipped in amongst them. It's already 10:00 p.m., but we feel Okay, goodbye. The porter follows us looking worried. Turn that thing off. Here? -Stop! He waves us back as it's forbidden without an official guide. Nevertheless, we insist. Thank you. Stop, stop, stop, stop. -No? -NO? The tone is polite but firm Thank you. Inside, two North Korean dictators, Mr. John works for the state I wanted to go for a walk in town, Everyone knows you're a spy. We've arrested spies nearby. Here, every foreigner is a potential spy. North Korea and an example of the worst kind Since its creation in 1945, the country has been living Acute paranoia and abject poverty There are no statistics for its economy, but what is known is that famine In the late 90s, are believed to have died of starvation. Even today, according to the UN, 20 percent of the population in particular, It's why the World Food Program distributes about 400,000 tons We managed to film these scenes in secret. Lacking machinery and even animals, local agriculture People eat what they can find, seaweed, and roots. It's a starvation diet. Officially, the country is still headed the dictator who died in 1994 but is designated He's represented everywhere frescoes, and posters. His son Kim Jong Il succeeded him and is officially known He continues to wield almost surreal, thanks largely believed to be over a million strong, massively equipped, and technically Kim Jong Il begun by his father. The result is people living in conditions comparable to those The same queues the same empty stores as the public never ventures inside. Not everything, of course, is so bleak. There are highways, and the clean-up squads There is even a casino in the capital except there's never a jackpot. There's also golf, the most capitalist of sports For the 23 million North Koreans but smiling is mandatory. Outbursts of joy in grandiose street parades. It's in this nightmare world inhabited by people that a group of Western tourists At EUR8,500 for three weeks, Only here, there's no luxury, only unfriendly minders no mattresses in the bedrooms There are blankets in here, look. Wow, that's enough for me. Naturally, Welcome to North Korea, The organizer of this trip of a lifetime Guillaume de Baudry of the worst places on earth. In his group is Claude. For this young retiree as for the first time, she can follow who was originally from North Korea. Jacqueline had no qualms A former librarian now also retired, this will be her first experience There's also Henri, It's not his first dictatorship, having already visited North Korea was missing Our minders are In the glasses is Mr. Ho Three weeks of propaganda lie ahead. Pyongyang, the DMZ, the demarcation line the extreme North, The first Westerners to ever make Our trip to the land of Communist bliss to share a joyful experience What, after all, could be more appropriate the only funfair in the country. Here, everyone smiles. Welcoming gestures The fair features attractions archery, games of skill, Ancient swings and rides fitted with machine guns, very popular with the adults The infrastructure is creakily old Still, never mind, to spoil the fun of the French group On board, everyone is having a good time. We're still going up. Yes, we're already halfway. Will you be okay? Now it's stopped. Maybe we're broken down. Everything here is so quiet, not like the funfairs back home where it's so noisy. Henri seems captivated by the calm, Even Mr. Ho, one of the guides, is enjoying the moment I'm filming the joy of this funfair. Crowds jostle, proffering money kids with money, and even young rappers. Is this really North Korea, Look, there's even the riff-raff, Here, there's a queue, Soon, though, the harsh realities of life when a group of soldiers on leave appears. Watch out, there are soldiers. No filming now. To find out why the soldiers are here, we follow along Mr. John, what's written up there? Down with the imperialists Really? Why is there still all this hate? The war is over. No, the Americans occupied our nation, The peace has never been signed, The Americans started the war The grunts fire away with toys but they are ready to fight for real. It's a war since the state was founded 65 years ago, By 1950, the world was beginning Two blocks faced off Korea finds itself at the center and is consumed by a war The South is supported by the US, In 1953, Korea is officially partitioned, and to this day only a ceasefire. Technically, It's a situation the French tourists Right now we're about to enter into the two kilometers which is used for farming. On the right is the flag of North Korea. On the other side, just a few meters away, The tourists have to form a single file, The atmosphere is tense This is the world's most sensitive area, surrounded by 1 million soldiers ready to do battle. The small group finally arrives It's a solemn moment. On both sides of the border They don't look at each other The first one will be immediately spotted The soldiers' uniforms The retro style of the North Koreans and US equipment of the South. The Americans On the South Korean side, They have their photos It's as much as they'll ever see For the tourists, it's time to leave. First, Claude wants to sign It's an important moment with a Korean father and a French mother. Claude has made this journey It's eighty-nine years after my father had to leave the country I've come to this demarcation line This division always who never saw his native land again. Claude's father fled Korea in 1920, The photo was taken He was never able to return It's an emotional moment, but the tourists are soon reminded they are in a state Their guides and the soldiers demand Many will be erased. To the tourists, comes with the territory, The tour continues following the program arranged and the next stop is the War Museum. At the end of the courtyard, Suddenly, one of the guide's assistants She was spoiling the scenery and that is something The very image of the country is at stake, an image of perfection and an image that is constantly monitored. Hello, welcome to our museum. Behind her is a gigantic mural, as one would expect, the founder of North Korea. He has a godlike status, not least because he rewrote Please sit down, and this will help explain Visitors to the museum are served a rather partisan version It's a version in which The voice, the style, the video everything resembles Who then started the war in Korea? These scenes will help provide the answer. Listen to how North Korean authorities World War II earned the United States through the sale of weapons. However, after the war, and entered into a period They then deliberately started to help their economy, Everything is false. The United States as it was after the Second World War. However, it matters not, in the same tone. Truman, the US president, declared in a message to Congress in 1945 so that the United States It's the exact opposite. Historians agree A reality the regime in Pyongyang and being the perfect dictatorship is something it teaches all children The tourists are stunned, Not one word. Obediently, they continue the tour At the double, they cross rooms The rewriting of history continues. The Americans to bomb the towns and villages Henri has never heard about Americans He takes his carriage in both hands Excuse me, in which year, Which year was this battle? The battle? It was during the war, 1950 to '53. Okay, so there's no precise date, The answer is evasive However, he dares go no further You didn't follow up on the question. You were scared. I just don't have the courage to. North Korea is a totalitarian state The country has virtually and if you get into trouble here, there will be no diplomats The young woman inside real ships and aircraft. The propaganda lesson continues. This is the weapons room where some These all distinguished themselves like the torpedo boat. It was one of four While the young soldier we dare ask a sensitive question. Were the same ones used recently There was a South Korean boat It's the first time We've never heard of that. Only a few weeks earlier, a South Korean naval vessel On board, 46 sailors were killed. Tensions between the two countries just when the French tourist group Following our off-camera question, we were summoned and spoken to who warned us never to repeat and the penalty of extending our stay here For now, all proceeds The museum guide continues her tour, She proudly presents one This plane is a MiG. It was visited The aircraft, a MiG 15, has been in continuous service as this video shot at the airport It's an aging military, but one which should not be taken lightly, Now, in this area, that are trophies. All these weapons are used in action like machine guns, an Aladdin's cave of Implements of death. It's also yet another opportunity They used chemical and biological weapons during the war, and this plane was shot down True or false, it's impossible The highlight of the visit a huge mural The Limelight, who saved the communist and protect it to this very day. The tourists are beginning to understand Tired, they return to their hotel. It's rush hour, Everyone is heading home from work Are the people They are waiting for the bus. Pyongyang never has traffic jams. In the middle of the road, There was an accident and everything On the left, and this is the city's main thoroughfare The few buses are packed On the roadside, there's no advertising but huge propaganda posters We see men proud of building the future A country in which women are there The two towers on the right one of the most luxurious in the country. Inside is the restaurant, constantly tuned in The programs are patriotic songs generals making speeches, and How Best to Use a Kalashnikov. The French appear Back in their rooms, the tourists discover even to their families. All here is dictated by the state, and the laws make it obligatory of the recipients to a local official. Henry seems to find nothing wrong I told my friends beforehand [French spoken audio] The country is cut off The following morning, The same background music It's not yet six o'clock in the morning. The sky is darkened by the opaque swirls Already, small hands are busy A woman is directing nonexistent traffic. Her movements Everything must be perfect The extreme poverty of the country Between two rows of buildings a septic tank on wheels, which used to be a truck. A few steps away, a group of men, practicing That's North Korea, a crazy contraption 60 years on. In a country where religion is banned He's called Kim IL sung, the local Stalin. He ruled the country His image is everywhere in the country, More powerful than a mere life president, he appointed himself Like everyone in the country, the French tourists What will you do with those flowers? I'll lay them Next, is the approach At more than 15 meters high, It's solid bronze The protocol is precise, We stop here. Hello. First, we'll put the flowers down, Go and place your bouquets, Step back a bit. Altogether now, in a line. Then, we'll count to three, -How many times? One, two, three. Paying tribute to one of the worst doesn't seem to upset Jacqueline. I love it. Saluting a dictator? It's amazing. The Asians like to bow. Even when they say hello to each other. Everyone does it in Asia. What if we had to bow How would you feel? I wouldn't do it, Maybe for Carla. After the French group another group of Koreans A perfect salute, but it's time for the cleaners to move in so it goes every hour, For now, the tourists' visit The North Korean guides in the best light. It's a far cry from the more usual image The tour Next up, is the pizzeria, Dining there is a privilege reserved This restaurant is essentially a whim, created on the express orders simply because he loves pizza. As in any hot spot, filming is forbidden. Everything started Then, he had an Italian chef from Naples Then, he said to himself: The chef left for a little time Then, an Italian expert came In the beginning, the Italian chef said: &quot;We need to carry on The only pizza man in all of North Korea In the kitchen, the staff heat the oven The pizza man one of the few North Koreans Two years ago, I went to Roma in Italy to learn about pizza. Okay, thank you. A cheese and ham pizza Guillaume says it's not every day This is the only chance we'll get so enjoy it. Payment is in dollars or euros, but not the local currency North Korea might be opening up a little, and not just People are now allowed by boating on the River Taedong Rollerblading youngsters and mobile phones although only local calls are allowed. There are even places bowling, and pool, and highlighting the growing influence imported from their ally, China. The tourists pay scant attention What they want is tradition. Souvenir hunting takes them When they arrive, there's some bad news. There's no sign of any embroiderers. I want a refund, and there never will be. Can we see just Just one, just one? Are there any ancient examples -Yes. The only evidence is two little kittens in the dark. It's hard to make anything out. A lighter isn't bright enough, On the stairs, an employee finally arrives but even that doesn't help. The only option is to take the embroidery It's pretty if you could make it out. At EUR150 Mr. Ho, the guide, [French spoken audio] It's painstaking work. It's pretty, but it's not handmade. The tourists are disappointed and don't I was very disappointed. We didn't see any old examples, Nothing. [French spoken audio] They realize that here Information is not freely available. Everything is filtered and controlled The Internet is prohibited. At the Central Library of Pyongyang, but are they linked to the Internet? A quick test on Google No response, nothing. There is no network They want to control and it starts at a very young age. In the streets, are already learning to march in step, chanting patriotic songs A few blocks away, a kindergarten. These kids aren't singing, and other playground games, Again, the image of happiness on Henri, is under their spell. He told me about the youngsters in town you won't see young homeless people there's certainly no kids and the children respect their teachers. All I can say is it's true. Poverty is carefully hidden and almost impossible to film. By contrast, to present to tourists. Inside, the children are beautiful, The teaching tools are incredible. In this room, the kids learn to recognize A little further A collection of all the local wildlife. What better way There's a brief show The headmistress The kids welcomed the visitors warmly, In this class, children under five are learning about the major episodes which are then recited with gusto. Using a video, The Eternal President Through them, Their brains Claude, who was a teacher all her life, They learn a lot by heart. They learn everything about history, about the president, They start when they're three years old where he lived, what he did, They repeat everything I still remember the first thing Claude makes sure what she says This room is the dormitory as well as sleep at night time. From the age of five never going home. The state takes over the role of parents. A little further, among some fantastic toys. The military influence is all-pervasive. Exact replicas of MiG fighters, some kids dressed as army officers, It's better than any Western school. There's so much happiness and humor. You almost have to pinch yourself It's tough to criticize when presented To conclude the quick tour there's nothing like a little show. It features a gifted young violinist. The kids who are all made up, and all behave like miniature adults. Guitarists, twirling dancers. Virtuoso singers. Everything stage-managed Even the smiles appear forced for these little puppets Hundreds of hours of work to achieve these sorts of results. To finish on a high, who reproduces every gesture The French tourists are enthusiastic. Did you like it? Oh, yes, it was magnificent. The visit to the kindergarten is now over. We'd just like to thank the headmistress. Thank you. I was reminded of my childhood when we always did We would never have dared misbehave It reminds me a bit of what it was like In the yard, a sign catches our attention and slightly dampens A guide translates Our general, They want to be soldiers It's a slogan that reminds everyone A dictatorship Twenty-five percent of GDP one of the highest rates in the world. That's ten to 15 times more than most European nations. In all, it's estimated ready to do battle An old-style army from the Stalin era with hundreds of thousands Tanks and missile launchers and completely obsolete fighter aircraft. Yet the North Korean army Since 2006, This is precisely why and why even the United States It's something that makes Mr. John We feel very good about having For example, we've now managed to possess A heavily armed and very secret country. Now, we're on our way, which is on the blacklist of airlines Hello. It's a two-hour flight Making the journey is why Claude is here. We're now close to Siberia Foreigners are usually not allowed. In the special area, Three new guides join us. The slightest movement and, if necessary, reprimanded. We're on our way now to Mount Paektu, It's 2,750 meters in altitude. After the winter, which is why The road is barely passable, and it's not long We can't go up to Mount Paektu. It's dangerous, If we slide, it's all over. There are still 28 kilometers to go It's impossible. Claude is hardly surprised, though. Claude, is the road closed? Yes, it's only to be expected They have no machines The vehicles aren't properly equipped. There are no snow chains or special tires, Can't we rent some snow rackets? [French spoken audio] In the absence of a sacred mountain, the tourists at least It looks deserted. It's like an abandoned show village. Where are all the inhabitants? There's no smoke or anything. Where are the people? Only a can of cooking oil We'll never find out more. Mr. John immediately intervenes We'll go and have lunch at the hotel then. What time is it, lunchtime? Rather than meeting residents, the tourists will be subjected about the life of the dictator. It's cold and damp, and some in the group To begin with, are deleted. A young woman dressed in military uniform is waiting to welcome them where Kim Jong Il, Smoking here is strictly forbidden. One more minute. One more minute. First, we'll visit the house On the way back, we'll go that way. This house is where Kim Jong Il A shrine that is to be respected. Please, don't stand on that. We're told the dictator was born here and there were Claude, who knows the country's history, Wasn't he born Yes, he took refuge over there, Is it just propaganda, then? Yes, it's written somewhere Kim IL Sung In 1920, he was only eight years old. Do they think we're idiots? It's incredible. He must have been at least 12. Claude regrets having dared especially as all around them They heard what we said. Are there are microphones They'll translate it. The friend Jacqueline, whispering, to the local political system. It seems like we're in a fairy tale, The ogre is still alive. Still, so long as we're not eaten up. That's fine. Oh, there's another house Henri, for his part, has no such issues. He loves everything but even he's amazed when the guide, launches into a patriotic song about the great leader Very nice, thank you. That was good, everyone sings well here. Kim Il Sung wrote that song. As to the many statues of the dictator, Henri salutes them The minders can't get over it. Do it with me now. Okay, I'll do it again. Mr. Ho is delighted with this Frenchman who behaves A few kilometers further on, yet another bronze statue Again, it's to the glory of the dictator, Claude has had enough This is just all too much. What do you mean? By their size, their style, The cult that's everywhere. Henri, of course, disagrees. You need to remember Yes, but I mean, they're all the same, [French spoken audio] From the urban point of view, all the perspectives are respected [French spoken audio] It reminds me of what Hitler wanted to do. Yes, In Berlin, his plans with Speer was the same kind of thing. [French spoken audio] I've seen the models. I just can't get to like Me neither. Comparing the Pyongyang regime to Hitler, When it's time to leave, Fortunately, a group of soldiers pass by, at least a dozen, Their assistance cheers up Henri. We've been in North Korea for over a week, but have so far still been unable This will change, though, as we head to the country's coast with a promise and being able to move about freely. The reality is quite different. Like all the country's shores, To prove it, the road is lined which is there to protect by the South Koreans or Americans. It's forbidden, for example, It's impossible to see Even Guillaume, for the past ten years, They make me cross, Why, even a photo like this? Look, they don't like it, If it stays like this, Do they bother even you? I'm going to complain It's too much. I understand they don't want pictures This is just the countryside. As usual, Mr. John this time to justify all the security. On the beaches and the coast Everywhere around here is a military zone. Too bad for the tourists, who will, however, still be able It's an extremely rare privilege except that everything here is false. The village was built This village was built for people It's very nice, The people here are lucky. As for the residents, This woman, for example, The evidence, she had the incredible honor An honor that's no coincidence, since this charming lady as Mr. Ho explains. From time to time, We select the mothers and in the proper socialist way. Rather than endure yet more propaganda, The beach is not far. It's too good an opportunity For the first time, the grinding poverty and that must remain hidden. On the beach, and stuffing it into old sacks. The seaweed will be served up for eating. We are soon tracked down We can't go there, -We want to see the fishermen. -Let's go to the fishing boat with you. -Oh, please. -I have no... I cannot go forward. If you go with me, afterward I... You'll have problems? Okay, okay, okay. The gesture has the merit The man will risk his life This is my last straw. Look toward this side, He says This time we are promised, assured, and guaranteed At the entrance is a slightly odd map. The architecture is typical Korean. The tourists seem to perk up a little. It's nice, I love it. I've taken lots of photos this morning. It's beautiful and clean. There's even a small demonstration Again, everything is stage-managed Nobody lives here. The tourists never see any North Koreans, apart from some employees Hello. We find a small passageway but it's useless, Hey, hey, hey! -No? Can't I go like this? Can we walk outside over there, No, no, first, Okay, I'll take a walk outside and come back a bit later, okay? No, no, no, we go together, Why? I can go that way, No, no, no, you can't, it's not allowed. No, no, we won't permit that. Mr. John! Mr. Ho said I could go for a walk for No, he never said that. Okay, I'll go to the library then. Is it not possible? I know what you're up to. At least I tried. Mr. John, our guide, isn't fooled. He knows the rules No images of real life. This fake village A prison from which you cannot escape. The solid wooden doors A third generation of Kims Indeed, Kim Jong Un, the 27-year-old son has been named his heir.