As autumn settles in, we kick off the new week under bright blue skies and Philippe is back at it, determined He's already digging beyond the new barn. Working steadily behind the old one. to make the most of the good weather, eager to see on task But the next day, the remnants of Hurricane Kirk bring heavy downpours, forcing us to pause the work. Despite the weather setbacks, Philippe And it has to do with an old barn door. I already pumped out most of the water What I did yesterday, is, the road that I was using was, really deep with deep ruts. So, made it higher and compacted it and drove over it a lot of times So what it has done even with all this rain, So hopefully next time I will be able to use this, more quickly. fingers crossed, I can, start working again sooner. You see the overhang behind me because I want to keep that dirt The wall will be a lot lower. I almost reached the barn door And what I also discovered is you can see the black or brown layer of soil, and in here you can see a rubble layer, The rubble layer is the layer that used So like I thought it didn't used to be this way. That's just soil that kept adding up, Digging it away again Now you can see as well When we bought it, it was like this. So what happens is Because there's no gutters And would stagnate And then we also had and water coming down from the hill. All rushing here. So there was no choice then to just dig it And apparently, like I thought, The only thing I'm doing That's the only thing. Oh, it was the rubber layer. Yellow layer and the top soil. So this is where they would And it goes a little bit up, up up up like this. So you can see over a period over 2 or 300 years how soil adds up. And how things get buried. All right. Yesterday was a little bit of a sad day the chickens in their coop, looking for the rest of the hens, And the third one I found here. But not alive anymore. So, I think, Fox got to her and, killed her because the intestines So, yeah, bit of a sad day, She's the one The paw was fully healed, but there was She couldn't fly, and she would She was the one who got taken. They can fly It's a little bit, doesn't make it less sad, but the only solution is get a guardian dog Yeah. So the way the fox came So underneath here there was digging. It's a little bit but you went underneath here. Then you can see his path going behind it and then just going You can also see path leading up. this is the neighbor's, field. So he has been traveling around here. And the chickens, And I was thinking this was dangerous because it's close to the to the fields Because there are walnuts So I think they were eating them So it's, stuff that happens. No, there's no solution. Either I build a cage for them, and they always live in a cage, Like we see Just let them free range. And once in a while, hen that gets, eaten in the meantime. Waiting for the rain to pass There's A wild cherry tree and blocking Okay. It doesn't matter. How much I take out of battery powered I'm always going back to this one. Now, there's probably something clogged, because it was losing power So, I'll have a look at it. It's maybe poor maintenance. It's maybe some stuff stuck in here. So I'm not going to fault it yet, because I just want to get it done. I'm making mashed potatoes with broccoli. And I'm using the potatoes As a side dish. And then I'll be preparing some fish That of onion, as well. Mmmm ca, ca mama. Je moet blazen. (You have to blow on it.) Yeah. Goed zo. (Well done.) Encore. (More.) Encore. Nog? (More?) Mama papier, papa papier. Lucie papier. June papier Da daaa! Mama The daily routine of pumping water. Should stay dry today and hopefully tomorrow as well. And then maybe we can start digging again. Okay. Today I'm going to do some other stuff, but I'm going to try tomorrow, If that works, I'll be able to do loads for the couple of days. This is where the cherry tree stood. And this spot between our neighbor's property to ground level to create a passageway It's difficult to show it, but down here, it's a mud fest as well. We are at the. Entrance of the barns here behind me. The driveway. And this is the corner of the old barn. That is in a very bad shape. And it's because of this constant, constant water. And, Okay. It's quite a walk. This chopping block was still, left at the spot where we found. the old tractor. We used it to, put it underneath So it's still there? The old tractor. We're going to look at it this winter. I know So once I can't dig no more, then, I'm going to have a look. If we can get the tractor working in Claudia's workshop. Because here in, the newer barn is full of my stuff. So I'm not able to do it. There. Oh, and then the old barn is still wet. Perfect. Just a quick little update. Don't mind the mess, for more than a year now remembers last autumn, winter, spring. There was always water And as you can see And because of the works I'm doing behind the barn, So, it is working. I just need time and dry The old barn still has, water inside so, But you can see the effect. And for me, it's a lot So for me, problem on this property is water. And I don't understand. And all these years, nobody did anything. How could you live here? Work here? Beats me. No idea. Everything. Constantly So weird. So weird for me. I mean, you want to give your animals That's what I think. And you want to have them, in a dry So, I'm not a farmer, but weird. Weird. Weird. As the week goes on finally improves, just enough for Philippe at digging. One flat tire and I had to charge the battery I've noticed the digger (Fred) sometimes doesn't want to start properly, getting tired as well. The machine is from 2015 so... Probably still the original battery. So that's 8/9 years so. It is going to need a change as well. that's it for today. All right. Aie aie aie. Mud. Mud. Mud. Mud. Mud. Mud. Mud. It's like deja-vu Today. Today started battery flat, tire... Then I got that fixed. Went down to the dam. Got the dumper stuck. Took the excavator there. Took a while to get the dumper unstuck. Just got to give up. There's too much rain. Too much water. It's not efficient anymore, I'm just losing a lot of time, flattening stuff the only solution is and then it stays dry another five days, But not like this. Yeah, that's what it is. I have other stuff to do. I'm gonna look, at doing the tractor together with Claude. There needs to be some work Yeah, I will get the other stuff done. Just sucks. The only positive part is I have no more water in there. So, that's that's amazing.