- [David] No. - [David] No. - This is going great. We're back again with where Intel has given to Anthony, Riley, Dennis, tons of members of the team so far, and we've seen some great themes. Like VR gaming, extreme But today's is unlike James has what I would describe Hey, it's $5,000. I'm gonna take advantage of this to the greatest extent that I can. - Don't you knock? (upbeat music) (air whooshing) (light jazz music) Hi, my name is James, and So I make sure the videos get made. (light jazz music continues) Describing my current setup in one word, adequate or suboptimal. If you're a glass half you could pick which way to go there. - Not gonna lie, your setup What exactly are the pain points we're trying to address today? - I have these giant tower speakers. My speakers are pretty good, I didn't think that it was worth changing them out with this budget. These are way, way, way bigger than anyone should have ever. Especially, this room. I should've got bookshelf, But even though they have that's still not as good of They don't go as low So the biggest problem is that I don't have - You don't have. You have these ballin' speakers, and no subwoofer. - Yeah, exactly. - [Linus] This is pain point number two, this does seem that bad. - This is okay, but it doesn't have Atmos, not that I have any but I want them in the future. And it's also underpowering my speakers. I don't need more power but it's nice to have more headroom to have a more dynamic sound. - Right. - When you get those transients coming in, it'll be more lively sounding. Plus, this doesn't have the And the solution that I have for it, has great room correction. So I'm excited for that. - Hey, remember when we did But James actually has it legit. You won this at the - That's right. And so, today, I'm keeping we're just gonna shove a new and use a new Rocket Lake - [Linus] I don't wanna be a downer, but I couldn't help noticing there was a 3080 over on the table there. What are the odds that's - It's gonna fit. The final pain point is another Speakers are only half the equation, the other half is the room. This is a giant reflective room. Look at that big blank wall. - [Linus] Yeah. - And that's the first reflection point from this speaker just going - Right, so your surround is gonna be just kind of all over the place. - And it can make it harder to understand what people are saying in movies. Now this is a living I can't do anything about this, you know? I can't put acoustic panels - I mean, you can, but is gonna be pretty low. - Well, case in point, look at this. This is seemingly a boho shelf, but actually these are acoustic - [Linus] Oh, that's pretty cool. Who knew you were crafty? - Don't look too close at 'em. (Linus laughing) So on that wall over there, I figure we can make a bunch maybe even an art panel, and just fill that all up with - Are you telling me that these are just a devious ploy as well? Are these just bass traps? - No, we bought these in Morocco. But you actually did uncover another thing that I'm upgrading. These cables under here, they were taped up with but it doesn't matter, my kid grabs them and (Linus laughs) And like, I just hate how That's why I got this, adhesive vinyl that matches my floor. - [Linus] That's kind of genius actually. - Except that I'm moving - Before we look at the receiver, I have to do some of the traditional poking around in people's homes. Nice cat tree, love it. Oh man, okay. - [James] The essentials. If you're gonna stage it, you might as well just You know? There. These are some good quality baby toys. Hey, is this the same penguin - [James] Oh, maybe. - I recognize this one, stolen out of the hands of my child. These things are like A, the best, 'cause kids absolutely love them and use them all the time. But B, (beep) impossible to store. - That's nothing, look at this thing. You know what this is? - Is it a puzzle? - It looks like a puzzle. - It's a potty. It's a headstand trainer. - No. - This is the kind of - Oh, my phone! So it doesn't prevent you oh, it does. Oh, so yeah. It keeps you from going over. - Is that what it does? 'Cause it'll support your shoulders. Have you never tried it? - No, I don't need this (beep). - It's actually not the I mean, it's stupid to- There's a little window behind - [Linus] Oh, that's pretty cool. I like it, I like this sort of thing. - [James] So that whole cat And check this out, see right here? I made this in the winter and this is all like extraneous Rockwool from the acoustic panel stuff. - I like it. Oh, hold on, there's one last Books are the absolute when you go into their house, especially, if you know Chris Hadfield, &quot;An Astronaut's I believe you actually read this. - I didn't, I bought it for my wife. - Do you actually read Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on. I think you forced but you hate Tom Bombadil as much as I do. - I read &quot;Lord of the That copy I've only read - Wait, dammit, is this the, you haven't actually read it shelf? I was bamboozled! - No, you're missing all the best ones. - [Linus] I fell for it. To be honest, I've only read parts of it I guess. No, no, you're done. You're out. This is a copy of &quot;The Wealth that I got from a used bookstore. This is from like 1915 I'm not really a Milton but you've got to know your enemy, right? - Did you read it? - Oh, not the whole thing, but I've read. Hey, look, hey, wait. I just saw my bookmark. I gotta say after seeing, particularly, David's and your haul here looks more focused maybe. - [James] Quality not - [Linus] Wait, what is that? - [James] This is my new AVR. - You spent half your - Yes, yes I did. - Wow. Okay. Well, why don't we go straight into that? - You've got your mainstream from Sound United, like Marantz and Denon. And then you've got your next that some people think This is a higher tier, supposedly made with better components, kind of amplifier from Anthem, which is a Canadian company. I was searching for something that had really good room correction. So the top of the game is gonna be either Dirac, which you get in NAD products, or ARC, which you get in Anthem products. I was really interested but then I read all the and there was just so many problems. Go for it, buddy. So I went with Anthem 'cause - [Linus] Okay. that was modern, like Atmos and stuff, powerful and aesthetically pleasing, and I think this is the One of the sweetest things about this is that has Chromecast built in. And the reason I care, is because I hate YouTube Music. What? What are you- - But that has Chromecast - Yeah, but the TV has to be on. - Oh, okay, all right. - Dude, don't get me into this. I have, okay, look at this. Using the SHIELD remote However, I have to still use the LG remote if I wanna use the down the voice command which would allow me to play music and then have the TV screen turn off. But then if you hit any And then using this remote fricking sucks. Like there's a lot of problems that it doesn't interface So like, no, this feature matters to me! - Okay, all right, thanks, Intel. You're so fired up, James. - I've been waiting for This knob. - That's a good knob. when you weren't looking. - [James] Wait, there's more, Linus. - Wait, is this like room correction infrared apparatus or something? - Yeah, so receivers typically with which you can- - Yeah, but like it's a toy. - But this one, as far as I can tell, this is just a rebranded UMIK-1. And the UMIK-1 is a $200, kind of the standard measurement And now I've also confirmed that this thing is not software You can just plug this into your laptop and use it with REW or what - [Linus] Does it come with like a stand for it and everything? - What the hell? I got to tell you, as someone who's pretty I'm finding some aspects of this upgrade a little hard to justify. So why don't we start with the before? Why do we always end up in bed together? - [James] This always happens. I think it's my turn to wear the wig. - The acoustics in this - The volume of air in here My home theater doesn't know that there's an imaginary wall right here. It has to pressurize all - And passed. - [James] I think these eight-inch woofers just can't do that. Plus, they're not gonna they're just not gonna go as low. - Yeah, I'm still very - You can hear the bass more on that one. - Yeah, I can hear it, but you're not supposed to hear bass. You're supposed to feel, There's no arousal whatsoever. I'd love to help, but you You can't really, oh, you're not gonna, oh you moved her, poor thing. - [James] Stop looking at her butthole. - I'm not looking at her butthole. Her tail's down. - I think what we should do is unplug the existing receiver. - Put on banana plugs, which will make it way more convenient when I move. - And have to plug everything back in. And get this in place. - Okay, let's do it. Ho, oh god! Oh no, the plant was overwatered and it sogged in and swelled. - [James] Dammit, I - All right, give me some - Oh, they're all individually wrapped. No, that's way more plastic than I want. I want this to be in the so it's not so easy as like taking them and putting them here. 'Cause they have to go through the same cable management hole. So is this a one person job, if we only have that one - Yes. - See you later. - Oh, I'll got a bed. - (laughs) I might even join you. For those of you who aren't familiar, this is how this works. You just take your bare wire. And usually you would like, I don't know, sandpaper it a little bit or something, because you care about it But, realistically, we all know that's not gonna make a difference, so I'm just gonna pop that in there. - And this is the subwoofer I got. The ever popular SVS SB-2000 Pro. The S means it's sealed. The B means it's a box And the pro means that I - And now we go from just bare wire that is a pain in the butt, and hurts your fingers to plug in, to screwing this guy on. Oh, look at that! And it plugs right back into that same. Well, you gotta tighten But then it plugs right back There it is. - It comes in two colors, black ash, which is and then glossy piano black. But I went for the black ash. - [Linus] You like that - [David] That's not black ash. - They sent piano black! This costs $100 more. - Oh really? that into my budget. I appreciate you SVS, my - This is gonna sound so much better. - Oh, this thing's gonna haul (beep). - I honestly thought that a lot of your money, until I heard the before. - I would like to run naked, That's why even on I have all the grills on, 'cause they like to touch stuff and color. And, crucially, I got this kit. The SoundPath Subwoofer Isolation System. So these are for decoupling The last thing you want is and then to hear a rattling So these are the feet they come with. They are not hard plastic. They're not that substantial. And here is the foot we're Look at that. - [Linus] Oh, I like feet, I wanna see it. - Well, it kind of looks - Oh god. - So subwoofer placement is a thing, especially, if you have If you only have one subwoofer and there's only one or two then you should just put it But if you have multiple potential spots, you should do what's And so what that is is and you move your subwoofer around to different when you're sitting in that bass sweep is an equal I'm not gonna do a I'm just gonna plug it in (laughs). - [Linus] 'Cause I'm moving in two weeks. - Yeah, exactly. My kid is gonna use this Phantom cables, I don't think one they sell, but this is I'm pretty happy with this. I'm excited about the cable. - Hey, I mean, I'm sitting for the last half an hour, so. - This couch has made it really hard to find a new place to live, 'cause it's just such a huge couch. I'm basically in bed all the time. - [Linus] I am done with banana plugs. - Should we do the vinyl floor thing? - Oh, totally. But I think we should do that after we put the new receiver in. I keep trying to sit on this table and it's a piece of (beep). - [James] Yeah, I spent like $99 off Facebook Marketplace for that thing. - [Linus] Okay, that was too much. - [James] Goodbye, slim friend. Hello, chunky hybrid class A. - [Linus] Okay, that's deep enough. - [James] That's what he said. - There's a really No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I got this, I got this. Are you trying to capture the moment where I realize that I don't got this? - One thing to know about this receiver is that it's not the best option for people who have multiple subs. And that is because inside there's not two different circuit paths, it's actually just an internal Y splitter. So the two different just go to the same thing. And the reason that's not great is 'cause when you get to the it can't separately You work on the PC, I'll We'll do the ARC Genesis set up after, because it requires using the PC. - And we'll be ready to go. - So I'm gonna work backwards and show you the finished product. This is a finished acoustic panel. It's got some white fabric on it that is acoustically transparent. You can tell 'cause you can hold it up and see light come through it, and you hold up to your mouth and you can breathe through it. I just stretched it over this wooden frame and stapled it and put some hangers on it. This is a partially completed one that's full of Rockwool. This stuff is cool. It's not like the pink insulation that you have to wear and that irritates your skin. This stuff is super workable. You can cut it with just a bread knife. You can touch it, handle it. - Now, James, I couldn't that you're planning to after the video is done. And I couldn't help noticing that you've got an RTX graphics card already in your rig. So are you planning to not but also make some money here? - You know, I gotta keep up and get a 3080, 'cause Being able to do so at MSRP, giving me two very good because I have some people in my life who I'd love to give a PC to. - [David] How hard is this It's clearly designed to and then not really worked on. But for a pre-built, it uses so I can't really complain. - Ah, crap, it split the wood. - Oh man, this is really fricking tight. James, how am I gonna put - [James] Okay, this is, oh This is really bad. - Oh what the, what are I didn't think I was doing Your Wi-Fi is hooked up like internally to antennas that are built into the case. How does this power supply? I am going to have to I have to get the power supply out in order to remove these Wi-Fi wires. - I pulled a David. - [David] That's not - Well, not exactly, but similar. Hey, David, David, David. - Oh, my god. You're in luck, James. I am extracting your Wi-Fi. - [James] Thank you. - There's just a couple that need to pop off the bottom feet. - [James] All right, I'm just gonna do this over my kitchen sink I think. - [Linus] What are you even doing? - [James] I'm just lopping - [Linus] Wait, over the sink? - [James] Well, yeah, I can scoop it out. - Let's have a look at the motherboard we're using for the upgrade. Really nice little board. Lots of features. So we've got Wi-Fi AC We've got USB 3.1. We've got Type-C, we've got, is this 2.5 gig LAN? - [James] I believe it is. We've got support for the latest Intel 11th gen So because James isn't it's not necessary for us to We've got a Core i7-11700. We've got an H570. And then we're actually reusing his memory from his old system, which is wow, 2666. (saw motor running) (saw motor stopping) - Eye protection, use it. - Yeah, if you ever feel that's probably gonna hold you back just a little bit with this puppy, but, hopefully, it's fine. - [David] Oh, we don't have thermal paste. - We don't? I have a plan. First, let's go ahead and install the CPU. Oh, no way, this is awesome! Check this out, so this motherboard, because you've got support on Intel's 11th gen processors, you can have a high-speed M.2 that runs at gen four speeds, and then you can have like And even though this is an ITX board, they actually managed to without like a big sort of like riser that comes off the board Check this out, it's just right here under their M.2 Armor heat sink. Fricking awesome, I love it. - So, no. - [Linus] If you need I can help you. - Psh. It's just so annoying not or the vice grips. - Here's my plan. We don't have any thermal compound, but I have some experience Reusing thermal compound. - Unfortunately, there's for us to just kind of plunk So what we're gonna do is we're just gonna kind of salvage as much of - Pilots are done. - [David] No. - [David] No. - [Linus] This is going great. - Oh yeah, we're gonna - Oh, I mostly just meant my Now I understand, David, you might look at this and go, &quot;Gee, Linus, I don't know if especially, 'cause it's That's where the stock heat sink that came with the CPU comes in. We don't wanna use this heat sink, but we can get a little bit of extra fresh thermal paste off of it. Oh wow, this stuff's way better. I should've just used this. - Is Linus somehow more jank than yours, David? - It's not trying, succeeding. - I found the extra Rockwool. The highest frequencies can get absorbed by like But the lower you go, the deeper you need, because the wavelengths are longer. So this is about four inches, or actually, I think This is kind of too thick That wouldn't really look like a normal painting or anything. So I'm actually gonna take a bread knife and cut this in half. - Oh, this is really tight. Just get out of the way! - It really does just go right in there. So I'm just pulling this tight, so it's wrinkle-free on the other side. I did the opposite ends first And then now I'm gonna go to the side, starting with the middle. - I'm just checking the front panel connector configurations. Usually, from one brand to But sometimes when you switch Usually, they print the But on these really small boards, they often can't fit it right next to it. So you can see this one's over here. But it looks like they're the same. So I can just plunk that in, excellent. - So one of those front USB that doesn't work. I was hoping you could- - [Linus] Mhmm, I'm sorry to hear that. - Maybe you could do something about that. - [Linus] Oh, I see, that's - Well, you don't just get you get eight hours of Linus's time. The only thing left to do now is put some fabric on the back. So if you don't wanna use the you can cheap out and get either burlap. Or if the fabric store you that's like refuse, that's what I got. Mine happens to be white, but it just serves to cover - And I've got an update too. I've got my motherboard and CPU in. I've got all the cable I think this panel should close. So all that remains for me is to put in the RTX 3080. Look at that, it's almost like it's new. You left the peel on there and everything. You pretended that you weren't You know what? This was a little annoying to work in, but good job MSI for making a pre-built that's actually upgradable with completely standard parts. - [James] Look how - Yeah, totally, you could absolutely do like anything in here, as long as it's not triple thick. - We're finished with I have four white ones like this. But why just stick with white, when you can get printed art panels? So what I've done is I got some artwork who's an artist. She does prints now. So I got one of her prints. I have another one in my bedroom. And I got it printed onto fabric using dye-sublimation printing. - That is a very colorful art. - [James] Well, it's mostly orange. - [Linus] That's really not what I meant. So do I get to listen to it now? - No, we have to do - Are you ready for ARC Genesis? - [James] Yeah, pretty sure - Oh, really? From position one, position the microphone at ear level and point it towards the ceiling, okay. - Okay, now once you hit start. (speakers playing abruptly) - We should actually get out of the way. - Oh, I'm getting down. - [James] Gotta be quiet. - Everybody, shut up! (speakers making sharp tone) - [James] That's some - Mhmm. I think this little bump right here is actually me saying, mhmm, to you when the sub was running, because the other one didn't have anything above one kilohertz for the subwoofer. This is super cool. (speakers making sharp tone) Okay, it says it's done. Please wait for your correction curves. It's ready to upload So I click upload now, I guess. Oh, we should probably swap - Sure. - Well, also don't forget about the floor. - Oh, right, right, right, okay. You get the SHIELD, I This is gonna be really high effort, 'cause I know James is This self-adhesive can be applied to all smooth, clean and dry surfaces. I dunno, let's eyeball it. Oh, in that case, it's Realistically, yeah, that'll reach. - [Linus] I don't really care though. - [James] Honestly, whatever, man. At this point, this is a waste of $20, so. - [Linus] This is not going very well. - [James] Oh no, it folded in on itself. - [Linus] Okay, here, hold Dbrand, are you proud of me yet? - [James] Oh god, I can see why they want the surface to be clean. - There, ah. - [Linus] All right, enjoy, James. Totally not noticeable. - [James] Is that worse - [Linus] (laughs) I think so. - [David] I think you - [Linus And David] Yeah! - [James] And we're back to square one. - [Linus] And the worst part is that I taped down the - [James] Right under the leg? - [Linus] It's like - [James] You son of a (beep). (Linus laughing) - What are you gonna do? Ask for a refund? - [James] Oh my god, - [Linus] Oh my god, this feels like an Like this is awesome. - [James] I'm gonna wrap you in this for a prank one day. Okay, I'm ready. Are you ready? Who gets your daughter's pee spot here? - [James] Hey, that's maybe animal pee. - Ah, I'm totally gonna be that guy that goes into someone else's home and takes the alpha listening spot, right in the dead center. And I just dropped a silent fart onto your alpha listening spot. (upbeat music) That is night and day. - Do you feel like the - No, you probably do. - I'm right beside it. feel the vibration of it. One thing I did notice though, is there's only so much that your ARC calibration can do. - Exactly. - There's still a void over there. - It's the cherry on top. It's not gonna change your world. - No, but it's better. What about your impressions? This is your setup. - Well, let me sit there. - (sighs) You piece of (beep). (upbeat music) - I wanna see some - Wait, you're not gonna other than that? - I'm not ready to. I need to audition it (bass rumbling) That sounds awesome! - This is like neighbors - The sound stage, I can Like when he stepped on it was like right in front of me. I can't wipe the smile from - Yeah, it's night and day, man. Any regrets about spending $2,700 of your budget on the receiver? - Not yet, but a receiver is you learn about over time, But right now I'm very happy. It looks awesome, it sounds awesome. And it's gonna be future proof - The way James flips his is just by moving the cable, because he's only got But what you'll do in the future then, is you'll just go display 'cause this one doesn't have display port. And then you'll go HDMI And then you can just Now we're ready with the gaming PC. - [James] Hold on, I need to be able to see this from my wired - [Linus] You do? Where's - In my storage locker. - Oh. - I haven't couch gamed in a long time. - [Linus] Okay, this is co-op gaming. - [James] Oh, it looks fantastic. - [Linus] How's the sound? - [Linus] So that's pretty much it. Once you move into the new place, you can get the wireless You'll have gaming, movies, music, everything freaking covered, it's sick. - [James] I'm very - I saw your setup and I We're upgrading something that But then I tried it and it blew chunks. And now it's awesome. Man, now you didn't on these speakers, because. - Those weren't as expensive Marketplace, baby. - My stuff's all used, all the time. This was the first new - [Linus] And yet when you go and buy a bunch of stuff brand new. I see how it works. Or rather, Intel did. So thanks, again, to Intel for sponsoring Extreme Tech Upgrade: James Edition. We will see you guys at the next one, which I believe is going to be. - Maybe Alex. - Oh, it might be, the If you guys are looking make sure that you guys check out our previous Intel with Dennis, Riley, Colton, all kinds of colorful characters. Oh, Dennis.