The Titanic saga is well-worn and it has ever watched a documentary on the ship you've overflowing and heard all about watertight But what does it all mean? Why wasn't What exactly caused the ship to sink so quickly? a close look at all this and more and find To answer this question we have to look at design. Second, the events. Third; the damage First some quick context. Titanic was designed of engineers, builders and artisans and even the time - the Titanic was actually built in an of other ships. You see, Harland and Wolff - building ships since 1861 and they were pretty one of the best shipbuilding firms in the world. Titanic's owners the White Star Line, but dozens Furness Bermuda, Royal Mail and many more. But commissioning virtually every one of their ships stupid myths about the Titanic disaster is that and built their ships out of sub-standard this for a long, long time and knew their stuff; So when White Star Line began discussing plans 1907 or 1908, Harland and Wolff was all their entire shipyard to accommodate the all their old slipways and built a monstrous as well as a cavernous graving dock to fit the The reason I'm telling you all is this because Titanic, and her two sisters Olympic and Yes; they were big. Really big for the to re-invent the wheel on this project. They ships like White Star's Oceanic, Laurentic way up. So if you can understand how Olympic how almost every Harland and Wolff ship So when White Star began talking about advanced Wolff was happy to oblige because up until only a bit of a gamble - fairly regularly ships White Star Line cut its teeth on the run to route and the worst 19th century loss of 4 months at sea when the ship was just one So the travelling public was a bit apprehensive 1909 White Star lost a ship, the Republic, White Star and Harland and Wolff would go above as possible - safer really than any other ship So - what does this all have to do with the built from the ground up. Titanic's hull was way then all the individual components will make are ideal for resisting torsion, or twisting, very long and prone to flexing and Box Girders require four "walls" to function. In top wall the strength deck and the two side walls was laid - this is essentially the ship's backbone slipway's blocks - and then a girder which ran length of the keel were fitted these things called longitudinal girders to be riveted to - and slowly an immensely strong steel skeleton. The bottom of a watertight skin for the ship. They were made the plates ranged from .64 of an inch - 1.6cm - to under the keel, was where the heaviest plates were Now on earlier ships this is kind of where the Titanic's day things had developed a bit and the involved riveting a second watertight skin of this created was called the Tank Top, and for good the bottom of the keel and the plates on top oat water. The reasoning for this simple; ships for things. So there was a lot of knowledge around Grounding damage was some of the worst - in fact, If Titanic encountered shallow rocks or and open the ship's hull up to the ocean, sinking tank top would prevent this from happening. ended there. It did not continue up the sides of Next, to the floors were riveted giant the side floors of the box girder - these were bent into the correct shape to give Titanic's hull the length of Titanic's hull spaced out every 24 frames were riveted the majority of Titanic's hull From here up, the plates which weren't part of the to save a bit of weight and give the ship greater storm. Each plate had rows of rivets hand-driven pushed red-hot in place and then hammered home were used to construct Titanic's hull and every If you were standing in Titanic's boiler or you'd be standing on top of the tank top. Looking curve to join the keel and its floors - and you'd and the ocean on the other side. There's not a Finally to give the box girder it's roof the sat at B-Deck, was riveted into place Remember when I called Titanic's hull a box a cross section of the tubular Okay - so Harland and Wolff have the hulk of a bottom in, say, a grounding. But what if the ship would mean water could flood the hull and sink the prevent this. It seems incredible that the idea of for hundreds of years ships had Titanic took the idea to the next level. Titanic's massive self-contained rooms, by 15 bulkheads that ran up the hull as high as practicable. ran through some passenger and crew areas in the there had to be some kind of doorway fitted that Titanic, this came in the form of the watertight First is probably the most famous; seen here These ran on rails and closed downwards. They and engines rooms had to be wide enough for men to doors were held open by a clutch; this could be or individually by simply lifting a Each door could also be closed manually by One final safeguard was installed; in the event and disengage the clutch, lowering the door. so men could get out of the way, but for the a guillotine to create a watertight seal. The second kind of watertight door closed the ones found in most of the passenger These had to be hand-cranked shut The watertight bulkheads had as few openings created a compartment with four watertight watertight bulkheads. However; there was no top watertight because the bulkheads rose fairly high here on E-Deck. With this system in place, Titanic If hit by another ship from the side, two or but the ship could float because the water the watertight bulkheads. If the ship received compartments, say in a side-swipe collision or any higher than E Deck before the ship found ship would survive - although it's bow would be was designed to withstand any and all of the kind point. Bow-on collisions, groundings, impacts from was almost... what's a good word here - unsinkable? Part 2 - the events. 1912 Titanic's lookouts and bridge spotted an The ship only had seconds to react and it was just Titanic's rudder had moved the nose of the ship berg scraped past along the side. Rushing Titanic's captain Edward Smith now had to diagnose He ordered the watertight doors closed but First thrown the switches, so the vertical-closing doors Then he ordered the ship's 4th Officer, Joseph and eventually the ship's carpenter. Already one of the ship's lamp trimmers walked up on deck a hissing noise. Up at the forepeak of the ship, tanks; the peak tank. This was the forwardmost the level of the ship and keep it on an even keel, had to be displaced, so the vent allowed air indicating that the forepeak tank was Just aft of this area, in the cargo hold, for damage and he could hear water rushing the belly of the ship and at certain levels was the tarpaulin was being pushed up by air as it all reported to the bridge; to Smith this meant opened to the ocean and flooding. Then there came so rapidly, the crew had had to escape up That made at least 2 compartments flooding; then up on G-deck and had a mail sorting room just one the collision, water began to flood the mail began to shift mail as fast as they could to save compartment forward of boiler room number 6; Finally, Smith went below to check the damage Boiler room 5 had a small hole and it was flooding collision, the Squash Racquet court was reported for Titanic's commander and officers; cargo holds 1 and flooding rapidly, cargo hold 3 boiler room 6 flooded and boiler room 5 taking the ship was designed to stay afloat with with the bow of the ship being pulled down by the the tipping point and water would surge up over compartments were not watertight. And this it the collision, Steward Joseph Wheat found water the Turkish Bath one deck below. This meant that separating the damaged boiler room 5 from boiler 3. The Damage kind of wide-spread flooding? I mentioned earlier that it managed to turn a couple of points and This meant that Titanic's side brushed up against 50,000 ton mass was grinding up along the ice. ice; very dense stuff. By contrast, Titanic was under pressure. If you look at photos of Titanic's you can see the steel plating bent like wet rivets on Titanic was immensely strong but when amount of pressure was put on them and they likely to open up ever so slightly and allow water in. if that was the case, Titanic would have it was a series of small cuts in the hull plating from the night, we have a good idea of where in the region of the forepeak tank. This as it flooded with water. Next, a 5 and 6 foot Then the seam of plates in cargo Just after this, between cargo holds 2 and 3, a compartment - and finally just aft of this, a and a little bit of Boiler Room 5. The by about as little as a half inch to 6 inches 4. The Aftermath by the disaster initiated wide-sweeping changes next few decades. The most obvious solution was to the double-bottom but running up the height of made to Olympic and was built into Britannic, the were raised higher; on Olympic, these went as also meant now, in public spaces, there had to be After the disaster, the general consensus somehow hull had been ripped open by the iceberg but this would have sent Titanic to the bottom way faster. the ship's damage had been intermittent; "I cannot the whole way. I believe that it was in a series series of wounds which flooded the different In 1986 Wilding may have been proved correct; be seen of the area that made contact a 45 foot long opening about 1 to 6 inches wide that directly opened up boiler room 6 and part of