The man known to history as Caesar Augustus the Palatine Hill in the city of Rome, the In Roman times individuals often had many acknowledge great deeds or the manner in which Consequently Caesar Augustus is a constructed The man who would one day become the first Octavius or Gaius Octavian and is typically as Octavian. His father, also Gaius Octavius, was a member class. The Octavia were not part of the Senatorial considerable significance in Rome by the first of the family providing military and political As a result Gaius was considered a 'novus This was a term which was applied to many wealth and authority in Rome, but who came differentiating them from the patrician classes their lineage back several centuries. Octavian's mother was Atia Balba, a daughter who served as a praetor of Rome, one of the after Octavian was born, and his wife Julia Thus, Octavian was born into a notable Roman his father's sides. Octavian's very first years were turbulent. The city of Rome had increased dramatically century BC and early first century BC. As it became increasingly overcrowded many to spend more time outside the city at their Octavian's family were no different and lands at Velletri, approximately forty kilometres However, the more significant development in 59 BC when Octavian was still shy of his His mother quickly remarried to Lucius Marius family. But this was not an ideal marriage for young his new step-son. As a result, Octavian was largely placed in BC, whose brother Gaius Julius Caesar would years as well as his ascent to become Emperor Octavian was evidently very close to his grandmother oration, despite being only twelve years old. It is not possible to understand Octavian's of Rome in the first half of the first century Octavian was born into a volatile period in On the one hand Rome had never been more powerful. Beginning in the third century BC the Republic Central Italy, first coming to dominate the against its rival, the city state of Carthage Rome emerged victorious from what were known century BC was in control of all of Italy Further rapid conquests occurred in the century Gaul, Carthage itself and Greece under the These conquests would continue unabated in But there was a contradiction at the heart While its military power increased, the Republic of the Roman legions became ever more powerful. And in 83 BC a civil war had even broken out the age, Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla emerged victorious from this in 81 BC And while he did resign that position in 79 his own death, many wondered how long it would power on a more permanent basis. The answer to that particular question, many individuals who had formed a loose political was born. The most famous of the three at the time was He had risen as a supporter of Sulla in the between 79 BC and the mid-60s BC by leading the Eastern Mediterranean, bringing regions name Pompey the Great in the process. Like Pompey, Marcus Licinius Crassus had been himself by becoming the richest man in the the gladiator Spartacus in southern Italy The third member of what became known as the been on the side of Marius in the earlier Despite this, Gaius Julius Caesar had managed and 60s BC after he obtained several senior of Hispania on the Iberian Peninsula in the As noted, Caesar was the brother of Octavian's And in the 50s BC, as Octavian was growing dominant figure in the Roman Republic. As Octavian entered his teenage years the turn. During the 50s BC, the three triumvirs had Crassus led an army against the Parthian Empire in 53 BC he was killed at the Battle of Carrhae experienced by Roman forces. Conversely, Caesar had undertaken in the early with modern-day France and which was then He was enormously successful in this enterprise, of the Roman Republic from the Alps all the Sea in the space of a few years in the 50s Meanwhile, as Caesar's star was in the ascendant to acquire a military command which would in years gone by. But he still had strong support from the Roman power as a potential mortal threat to the Thus, a new civil war was brewing, one between Pompey backed by the Senate. Octavian would soon grow closer to his great Caesar was emerging as the Sulla of his age. In 50 BC relations between Pompey's faction point. Anxious to limit Caesar's power, the Roman for a new term as consul of Rome, the highest were also trying to strip him of his military Pressured by these efforts, Caesar brought on the 10th of January 49 BC crossed the Rubicon This was a boundary beyond which no Roman in crossing it, Caesar was effectively initiating In the weeks that followed, Pompey and his Eastern Mediterranean. Greece now became the main theatre of operations, Dyrhaccium in July 48 BC, but followed it the Battle of Pharsalus just weeks later. Pompey subsequently fled to Egypt where he The civil war would drag on for three more North Africa and Spain, but the events of of the Roman Republic. There is a popular misconception that Julius This is not true. Caesar held the title of dictator during the This should not be confused with the modern and refuses to accept any challengers to their In Rome dictatorial powers were regularly to hold extensive authority in civil and military Thus, for instance, the Roman politician and dictatorial powers by the Senate in 217 BC general Hannibal had invaded Italy by bringing base in Spain. He relinquished these powers after a short won the civil war against Marius in the late As such, Caesar was operating within a relatively served as dictator in the 40s BC, but what it seemed that he would never relinquish his However, it is important to note that he never novelty would be an invention of Octavian's During this period of immense political change, his great uncle and also finding his own way Following his grandmother's death he had step-father. In 47 BC, when he was just fifteen, he was of Roman priests, while in 46 BC he played of the Olympic Games which were held at this He was also anxious to prove himself militarily in the civil war to be allowed to join his She initially refused, but eventually acquiesced saw some of the last actions of the war in supporters were making their last stand. Octavian evidently made a major impression BC altered his will to both adopt Octavian Adoptions of this kind were very common amongst position as the primary beneficiary of Caesar's that Caesar did not have any legitimate male an illegitimate son with the Egyptian queen Caesar's adoption of Octavian and his naming were more vital than Caesar could have known ultimately the Roman dictator was not long As the months rolled by after the end of the that he intended to renounce his dictatorial the ranks of the Roman Senate to assassinate Although word of the conspiracy slipped out place, the individual who learned of it, one days in Gaul, Marcus Antonius, typically known Caesar to the danger he was in. Accordingly, when Caesar entered the Senate BC, one of the great festival days in the to occur. In the minutes that followed, a group of senators Most near-contemporary accounts agree that killed and the idea, popularised later in the great commander turned to one of his assailants, and said 'Et tu, Brute?', meaning 'And invention. Octavian was not in Rome at the time of Caesar's training in Illyria, the region on the west Croatia and Albania. The later Roman historical biographer, Suetonius, should try to assemble an army from amongst when he heard of his great uncle's death, just eighteen years of age at this time. He did head straight for Rome, though, upon only have been at this time that he learned of his very sizeable estate. Moreover, the fact that Caesar had adopted uncle's political power in the eyes of Caesar's Thus, although he was still a very young man, Octavian had both the financial power and asserting himself in Rome's politics in uncle's assassination in 44 BC. To broadcast his role as Caesar's political Caesar to his titles. While the clique of Roman senators who had Republican rule, they were soon frustrated Within weeks figures such as Brutus had been eulogy given by Mark Anthony at Caesar's In the months that followed they would be reasserted some control over the government. And with individuals such as Brutus out of into a battle between a number of military could succeed Caesar as the new dictator of Foremost amongst the possible candidates was the time and who was in a position of strength. Yet others were wary of Anthony, viewing him next in a line of over-mighty political generals times. This faction began to give their support to Lepidus, another one of Caesar's close allies The emergence of these opposing factions would Caesar in the immediate aftermath of his assassination. Despite his youth and relative inexperience, he could be within weeks. In the months following Caesar's assassination in Italy. Part of this was the war chest of 700 million accumulated in southern Italy to pay for a been planning at the time of his death against far to the east in Mesopotamia. Octavian had re-appropriated a substantial augmented it by effectively stealing the enormous states in the Eastern Mediterranean later Now in late 44 BC and early 43 BC he put this legions to follow him and also recruiting across Italy. To copper-fasten his swift seizure of Italy, a highly unusual move was quickly given the usually reserved for senators who had previously Finally, in mid-43 BC he marched on Rome with himself, as both the consuls who had been campaigns. He encountered virtually zero opposition and consul, the most significant political office Octavian had clearly emerged as a significant and Lepidus. The emergence of these rivals for power soon which mirrored that which had been agreed On the 27th of November 43 BC the Roman Senate divided power within the Roman Republic between This Second Triumvirate, as it has become earlier First Triumvirate. The First had effectively been a private and and Pompey to co-operate with each other, agreement which had the backing of the Senate three spheres of influence which the three Octavian was given control over the region Africa, as well as Sardinia and Corsica. Hispania and southern Gaul were granted to Alpine region and most of Gaul. The Senate would control Rome itself and Italy, in the Eastern Mediterranean had fallen into Cassius Longinus who had assassinated Caesar. As these lands in the east constituted the triumvirs could seize the region would be triumvirs in the years that followed. The first years of the Second Triumvirate cordially and in conjunction with each other. Firstly, they began strengthening their position Proscription was a process whereby Roman citizens and had their estates confiscated. By proscribing hundreds of wealthy individuals vast estates and wealth which they used to own factions. Together, the three began the work of crushing had taken control of much of Rome's territories Octavian and Mark Anthony took the lead in Sea to Greece. From there they marched north and met with Phillipi in Macedonia. The resulting battle involved upwards of 200,000 In the clash casualties were actually relatively military terms, however when Cassius was given been defeated he committed suicide and Brutus actual fate. Thereafter their forces surrendered. It was a bizarre end to the wars which followed The power dynamics of the Second Triumvirate victory at Phillipi. Lepidus, who had always been the least powerful on the back of a spurious lie invented by secretly providing aid to Sextus Pompeius, of Sicily in the aftermath of Caesar's assassination. With Lepidus removed in this way, Octavian of power, whereby Octavian would effectively notably Italy, Gaul, Hispania and the North control the eastern provinces such as Greece over the many client kingdoms in this region part of the Roman Republic, but which were Then, to cement the new dispensation, an agreement sister, Octavia, in October 40 BC. The alliance, as uneasy as it was, would hold One of Octavian's most pressing problems between himself and Anthony was the presence Pompeius had ensconced himself firmly on the between the Western and Eastern Mediterranean, Sardinia and Corsica, having built up a formidable By attacking and seizing shipping passing to Rome Pompeius was able to interfere in to Rome. The Eternal City was heavily reliant on such to feed its swelling population and provide Consequently, something needed to be done Initially an agreement was brokered in 39 acknowledged in his possession of the islands however once his plundering recommenced, after sent his foremost commander, Marcus Agrippa, accomplished in 36 BC. Pompeius fled to the east where he was captured the following year. The conclusion of the war against Pompeius of the Second Triumvirate. Lepidus had been side-lined years earlier, islands in 36 BC now saw him try to re-establish Octavian made clear his dominance of the Western by sending his armies south, upon which Lepidus's heir. Octavian had once again shown his belief that it known to Lepidus's legionnaires that relinquished their allegiance to their commander. As a result of their defection, the third offices by Octavian, other than the largely chief priest of Rome. Yet Lepidus was allowed to retire peacefully live for nearly another quarter of a century politics. But the immediate consequence of his fall definitively only two triumvirs left and the loomed ever nearer. While Octavian was enjoying these successes trouble in the east. In the late 40s BC Anthony had struck up a Ptolemaic Egypt, who had previously been the him a son named Caesarion. Making his base in Egypt in the early 30s position relative to Octavian by undertaking the Republic. In particular he was anxious to rejuvenate Parthian Empire in Mesopotamia. Thus, in 36 BC he invaded Parthia with a massive However, the invasion soon turned to disaster the baggage trains of supplies and siege equipment. When a mobile force of Parthian cavalry intercepted general was forced to retreat back towards along the way as his forces were harried by The campaign had turned into a disaster, the remedied by his conquest of the Kingdom of of his son, Alexander Helios, as its king. This was the context in which Octavian made Anthony's absence from the Eternal City, preference for the Egyptian capital of Alexandria his followers in the east, all provided ammunition that Anthony wished to seize power in the which Egypt and the city of Alexandria would Octavian was particularly bullish in claiming of his sister, Octavia, to whom Anthony was with Cleopatra. Moreover, Octavian was actually able to substantiate In 32 BC he entered the Temple of the Vestal which was housed there. With this he was able to demonstrate that eastern territories between his family and at Alexandria following his death. This, combined with Anthony's celebration in Alexandria rather than at Rome, seemed was effectively turning into an eastern despot if left unchecked. In late 32 BC, following this campaign to agreed to revoke Anthony's powers and declared A new civil war had begun. Yet Octavian did not have unequivocal support As much as forty-percent of the Roman Senate of these now left the capital and headed east cause in Egypt. In the months that followed, the largest military war occurred. By the summer of 31 BC Octavian had pulled 200,000 men. To put this in perspective, Caesar had only of Pharsalus, the decisive engagement in his of 48 BC. And Octavian's massive military build-up to field about 200,000 men. Just as significantly, both quickly assembled was a war which would play itself out as much By the summer both sides were channelling and Pompey's showdown in 48 BC and the end in 42 BC would act as the theatre in which Republic would play out. Octavian and Mark Anthony's forces would of Actium in north-western Greece in 31 BC. This was at the mouth of the Ambracian Gulf, tip of the island of Corfu. Anthony had begun assembling his land and preparation for a planned strike against mainland Octavian responded by concentrating his forces north of Actium. Here by the late summer Octavian was beginning to Anthony's grew and Anthony became increasingly Then, as the days went by, desertion and disease As a result on the 2nd of September 31 BC Gulf with slightly over 300 ships and perhaps board. Octavian's forces of roughly 400 galleys had lined up in the waters around the exit passed Actium to try to break out into the The Battle of Actium which followed would Octavian's fleet was numerically superior, than the larger galleys of Anthony's eastern However, even this seeming advantage for Anthony ships proved more agile and could stay out in the hours that followed. However, what possibly sealed his fate at 'dead water' while trying to break out whereby ships can only move at a fraction in highly saline water. This, or perhaps a run of bad winds, stranded that Octavian's galleys were able to come of Anthony's own galleys. This, combined with a breakdown in communication fleet, saw his fleet almost completely destroyed As night-time descended near Actium Mark Anthony's the waters outside the Ambracian Gulf. In the aftermath of Actium Anthony managed Octavian and Marcus Agrippa pursued him, and on his own sword on the 1st of August 30 BC This brought the latest civil war, the final Cleopatra followed her lover's example nine poison, not as legend would have it through And Octavian was not inclined to show mercy Both Caesarion, Cleopatra's son by Julius Anthony's son by his earlier wife, Fulvia, The two had been born within weeks of each late teens in 30 BC. Octavian had not been much older himself when and military ascent. Unwilling to take any risks that the pair them killed. Egypt, which had been a client state of Rome's the latest province of the Roman Republic. Like Caesar before him, Octavian did not move of Rome, although he was now unrivalled in and 44 BC. Unwilling to make the mistake his great uncle never relinquishing them or asking the Senate's his own constitutional position in the months in 30 BC. Firstly, after returning to Rome he had himself and he would hold the title every year down In tandem Octavian tightened his grip on the wealth into his own coffers in ways which financial patronage. Then he reached an agreement with the Senate provinces between them, whereby Octavian and Senate others. And by this means he created the idea that and the old aristocracy, instead of bludgeoning For all that these changes magnified Octavian's Anthony, it was not until 27 BC that the real Republic and his position within it was transformed. In January of that year the Senate granted The first of these was that of 'Princeps', The new title signified that Octavian was The other title which was bestowed was that One' as a term of reverence. Octavian now took the latter along with his Henceforth he would be known as Caesar Augustus, a term which in Latin effectively means 'Commander', or ruler, based largely on the knowledge that emperors of a Roman Empire. And these developments in January of 27 BC the point at which the Roman Republic came of the Roman Empire, one which would last Having established himself in a position of soon set about expanding the Empire's borders. Rome was a society, whether it was ruled as as a natural thing for it to do at all times. In the early years of Augustus's rule, this Egypt had been annexed as part of the end The Kingdom of Galatia in central Turkey was BC when its ruler, Amyntas, was killed. In the years that followed that, Augustus of northern Hispania, which had resisted Roman The final conquest of the Iberian Peninsula gold deposits were soon discovered there, both Augustus and the wider Roman aristocracy. In tandem, Augustus tightened Roman control such as the Herodian kingdom of Judea by the A diplomatic success was also secured in 20 Parthian Empire to return the battle standards the Battle of Carrhae in 53 BC in which Crassus, had perished. Yet it was not all plain sailing during these In the spring of 23 BC Augustus became seriously Therefore he made provisions at this time Marcus Agrippa would succeed him militarily be groomed to succeed him politically in the Although he recovered from the illness, the of the necessity for a clearer constitutional he agreed with the Senate that henceforth would be granted the office of tribune for with this. In this way he placated the Senate by giving control over the magistracy by the creation tribune. And while these new arrangements did incite which was launched by one Fannius Caepio in and Augustus continued to solidify his rule Augustus's reign saw many innovations in managed. The century or so prior to his seizure of but necessary social reforms had been neglected civil wars. In particular there were major issues in the fires, diseases, a crime problem and growing Augustus began addressing this imbalance. In the city of Rome, the population of which by the first century AD he transformed the professional police force and fire service, fires had become rampant. These 'vigiles' did much to make Rome reign. He also drastically reformed the way in which expanding the personal bodyguard he had established Guard, to become a much larger unit whose was charged with the protection of the capital In the wider empire Augustus, in conjunction administration which would last for much of This divided the empire into senatorial provinces provinces which were administered by magistrates There were some exceptions to this rule. Egypt, which he had conquered following the of the entire empire and Augustus placed it the Roman equestrian class who was directly And he also introduced major reforms to the revenues that were collected. This was a necessity, as for decades Rome territories for much of its wealth. In introducing a proper taxation system of stable and secure source of revenue for the Finally, in order to improve the overall administration road building system, and a system of relay at maximum speed to and from Rome. As a result King Louis XIV nearly 2,000 years from Paris to Rome any faster than Augustus The reign of Augustus is generally perceived particularly of Latin literature. The poet Horace published his Odes between renowned works such as the Metamorphoses, and his Ars Amatoria, meaning 'The Art of calendar, all towards the latter end of Augustus's The historian Livy spent nearly thirty years history of Rome from the foundation of the Urbe Condita, meaning from 'From the Founding Yet it was Virgil, an Italian from near modern-day poets, his magnum opus, the Aeneid, providing by Aeneas, a refugee from the legendary siege Many of these poets were supported by Gaius who acted as an unofficial minister of culture, of Latin literature was considerable, although beyond the empire's borders in Romania in related to the scandals created by his love The Augustan golden age extended beyond the Rome's first emperor left an indelible mark He was responsible for constructing numerous the city, notably the Forum of Augustus complete Arch of Augustus, while the Mausoleum of Augustus civil war covered an area the size of several Tiber and became the resting place of the and many members of Augustus's extended Other buildings, such as the Portico of Octavia, sister, and the Baths of Agrippa, the city's most trusted ally, Marcus Agrippa, were built family and friends. Perhaps unsurprisingly, given all this building De Architectura, was written by the engineer of Augustus's reign. It was still being used as a major work in and Vitruvius's writings were used in such Brunelleschi built on top of the Cathedral fifteenth century. This Augustan golden age of culture, of course, When figures such as Maecenas patronised poets of Rome and Augustus patronised the building City they were also creating propaganda for Coins and other mediums to disseminate Augustus's to the same end, often advertising to Rome's empire exactly who their new ruler was. In addition Augustus continued to add further Although he had ceased to hold the office Senate granted him the right to wear the insignia itself he sat in a symbolic position henceforth Then in 12 BC when the former triumvir Lepidus Maximus, making Augustus the senior religious Finally, in February of 2 BC the Senate granted the 'father of the country'. It was the culmination of three decades of Throughout his reign there continued to be would succeed Augustus in the unique position state. Augustus had married three times. His first two marriages were brief affairs. The first to Claudia between 42 BC and 40 up alliances during the politically turbulent The second to Scribonia followed immediately it only lasted two years down to 38 BC. However, this particular union did result named Julia. Augustus, who was still Octavian at that time, birth to Julia. The grounds were that she had committed adultery, excuse as Octavian had met and fallen for Livia was married herself, to Tiberius Claudius children. She quickly obtained a divorce herself and They would be happily married for the next the marriage never produced any children, and Augustus had children from their previous Had Augustus's marriage to Livia resulted have been clearer, though this is by no means involved the adoption of an heir who was considered From the 20s BC onwards Augustus considered Early on his preference clearly seemed to and ally. Agrippa was periodically placed in charge betrothed his daughter Julia to him, a union However, Agrippa had been born in 63 BC, the long before the emperor. Thereafter Augustus began grooming his two Gaius Caesar and Lucius Caesar, as potential Unfortunately, though, the two young men both within 18 months of each other between the Suspicions abounded that the Empress Livia of her surviving son from her first marriage, His route to the imperial titles seemed assured only living son and Augustus's only surviving banished from the empire for his excessively In addition to concerns about the succession, a shifting situation with regard to the empire's policy. As we have seen, the earlier years of Augustus's borders in regions such as the Iberian Peninsula, in the early 10s BC. The second half of his reign saw an effort western and eastern parts of the empire in as Pannonia, Illyria and Moesia, approximating Kosovo and parts of Serbia today. In doing so the empire's territories were coast of Iberia all the way eastwards to Thrace A final revolt known as the Great Illyrian tribes, but once this was crushed in 9 AD under Roman rule. Other consolidations involved acquiring greater up the eastern border, while the Herodian state for decades, was formally annexed and Thereafter Augustus began a process of down-scaling limiting the amount of future conquests which To that end the number of legions, which had wars, was reduced to a standing amount of The one region where Augustus continued to was in Germania. His great uncle had conquered the vast expanse BC and Augustus was determined to emulate the tribes of Germania. Operating out of a major settlement which town which would eventually grow into the led by Augustus's great nephew, Germanicus Rhine into Central and Eastern Germany in The advance was so swift at this time that the River Elbe in the east of the region and established out of these lands. However, this seemingly comfortable conquest to be true. In secret, the Germanic tribes of the region lands and in 9 AD when the Roman general, into the region around Saxony they were betrayed Virtually the entire three legions, some 15,000 as the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest. Henceforth plans to conquer Germania were as the northern boundary of the empire. Caesar Augustus died in the year 14 AD, on after him, after July had been named after He was nearing his eightieth year and was as spurious rumours that Livia poisoned him It was this step-son of the emperor who would to be a particularly worthy or accomplished all of his rivals for the position. Augustus's advice to him prior to his death But instead to secure its existing borders on the south by the Sahara Desert, on the Sea and on the east by the River Rhine and Although this advice was not precisely followed enough extent that it brought peace to the This is often referred to as the Pax Romana, 70 million subjects lived through a period It was a far cry from the chaos which characterised into it. In the decades which followed it became clear of Rome had been. His reign was followed by several much poorer His direct successor, Tiberius, is generally who spent years absent from Rome and who relied Sejanus to rule on his behalf. He was succeeded by Caligula in 37 BC, a great-grandson have been a mad tyrant and a sexual deviant. When his short reign ended in 41 BC another Claudius Caesar, became Emperor Claudius. Although he was generally depicted as a weak the most successful of Augustus's near successors, system and initiating a major building programme of him was most likely on account of his being not being seen as a martial figure who could The last Julio-Claudian Emperor Nero is typically who burned down Rome and whose reign eventually dynasty in 68 BC. Thus, Tiberius, Caligula and Nero, through how great Augustus's accomplishment had Caesar Augustus, the man who became first ascent as Octavian when he was little more divided opinions in the 2,000 years since It could be argued, and has been argued, that established a system which destroyed the empire's Such a view was articulated by subsequent late first century AD senator and writer, the will of the people and made them slaves. In this interpretation the man who was granted the Roman Senate was nothing more than a power after decades of civil war which tore the Moreover, his reign was dominated by warfare, Triumvirate to the civil war with Mark Anthony and then in Germania. Tens of thousands, and quite possibly hundreds the conflicts he engaged in or directly initiated. Yet there is another completely opposite way After several decades of internal strife within constant civil wars between opposing generals stability. This allowed for the initiation of wide-ranging empire, while the more settled environment greatest period of Roman culture that was Moreover, his foreign policy was practical control over the regions it was a major player easily defensible geographic areas such as In doing so, he effectively consolidated the chaotic expansion since the middle of the In doing all of this he bequeathed to his Rome faced in the days of Julius Caesar and arrived in the second century AD the Roman stability and prosperity. But perhaps ultimately he was both of these power-hungry man who ended the Roman Republic individual who brought stability to a withered it to history. What do you think of Caesar Augustus? Was he a great emperor who finally brought was he a power-hungry tyrant? Please let us know in the comment section, watching.