The teacher gave the children three stick insects. Every day we will pick guava leaves and try to eat them! Grow up quickly:) Today I will introduce storage boxes of various sizes used at home. I hope it will be of reference value to you. IKEA storage boxes are very convenient and can store various kitchen sundries, stationery, and toys. Classified toys are easier to stack and display without taking up too much space. All the clutter has been put away, making the home tidy. It can be used with the IKEA TROFAST toy storage cabinet to allow children to easily sort their own toys. The pine wood color matches the home decoration. The colors are very coordinated and easy to extract. The items are clear at a glance and the children's treasure collection. The dazzling cabinet can be used for sitting or lying on, or it can also be used as a game. The table top also serves another purpose as children grow up and have fewer toys. The storage cabinet can be erected as a kitchen work cabinet. There is enough storage space for condiments, cooking oil, etc. The cabinet can be placed with ovens, rice cookers and other electrical appliances , making the kitchen instantly beautiful. The cabinet is not obtrusive when placed in any corner of the home, creating a warm home atmosphere. IRIS OHYAMA eight-compartment drawer The cabinet can be used to store any stationery, sundries, parts and small items, etc., into eight-compartment drawers. There are two sizes. The lower four compartments are taller and easier to access. The cabinet is placed in the corner and will not be cluttered. It is worth it. Buy it! The double-layered fruit basket purchased from Shopee is used to store fruits that cannot be refrigerated. Do you want to grab one to eat?) The multi-compartment storage box purchased from Xiaobei Department Store is a multi-functional storage box that I use to store seasonings. I bought a basket from the vegetable market. IKEA also has a similar style. I usually use it to store pumpkins, sweet potatoes, etc. IKEA KUGGIS Storage box with lid, 26X35X15 cm in size , with round holes for easy extraction. It can organize messy food packaging of different sizes IKEA KUGGIS series, storage box with lid, 32X32X32 cm, large space, can store rarely used household appliances and various baking supplies. I have a home for my slow grinder. It is suitable for IKEA KALLAX cabinet. The IKEA storage box can be classified into kitchen supplies, small accessories and stationery. Stackable use, space saving, high CP value. Frost Mountain Bread Box can store toast, seal and keep bread fresh, and extend the taste of bread. You can also use the IKEA storage box to store groceries . I use it to store alcohol and disinfectant supplies at the entrance. The hand disinfectant spray is really convenient. The IKEA extension storage box is really amazing, easy to use and suitable for many spaces. My kitchen drawers are very narrow, and I often can't find storage boxes of the right size. This telescopic storage box solves my problem:) The storage space is also suitable for storage. It is much tidier. This IKEA transparent storage box is affordable, but I will not use it again. The lid of the repurchased box is not tight enough and the box is too transparent. The storage will be cluttered. The lid of the MUJI soft storage box can be purchased separately . The IKEA storage basket is placed at the entrance of the stairs to place items to be taken upstairs for easy carrying. Shude LIVINBOX desktop drawer-type storage box drawers come in three sizes. Each drawer has two partitions. The guide grooves of the partitions are very fine and can be adjusted according to the spacing you want. The quality is very good. I like it very much. , I bought 2 sets of MUJI soft round storage boxes for each of my children . They have a place to put any small accessories. My children like to do art work. I use them to store art supplies. The Daiso drawer storage boxes can be placed in parallel. It can be pushed up and down to stack brewed drinks, and it is easy to take . IKEA high CP value small storage box and large wound paper box. The children were playing with the dog in the front yard, and I prepared afternoon tea for the two of them:) With the help of these storage boxes, The home space feels enlarged and tidy. I hope my video is of reference value to you :)