In the waning years of the Blessed Age, reptilian Dragons, thought to have been hunted to extinction above the world of men and devastated the Reading this as an epochal omen, Faustine age: the Dragon Age, which in her holy wisdom, upheaval, and dramatic change. Thus begins the period in which the titularly is not where the history of its world begins. Welcome to special longform video on the vibrant we will explore the entire background lore up until the beginning of the first game. If you're lore-heads like us you probably and for that, you need a portable option for Today you need look no further because this sponsor Raycon. Raycon provides premium quality wireless earbuds on quality or skimping on the design. You'll get top end audio quality at a price in the modern age of economic uncertainty. Once charged you get about eight hours from then take the base station with you and charge day - this makes enjoying the freedom of wireless been using Raycon earbuds for 2 years and Raycons come with a selection of gel tips best fit, they're water and sweat resistant noise isolation so you can enjoy your audio you need to switch out and hear the real world Be it lore, audiobooks, music, or news, there day more fun and productive, and with wireless this is now more affordable than ever. And even better: click the link in the description your Raycon purchase! For over 10,000 years, the continent of Thedas of wondrous marvels. However, the race of humans, although nowadays newer arrivals to its shores. As far back as 7,600 years before the founding inherently magical people. They called themselves "Elvhen," which ruled a massive Empire they called Elvhenan. Elvhenan was a place of arcane miracles, encompassing beyond the physical realm itself: the Fade. The Fade is the dimension from which all magic travels when they dream and where beings of In the modern Dragon Age, Elves and Humans Still, they can rarely travel there physically which separates the mortal world from the However, in the Ancient Age, no such barrier in the land of dreams and built entire cities However, few in the modern age remember the those who do describe them as a place of surreal One particular dreamer asks us to "imagine palaces floating among the clouds," and whom magic was as natural as breathing." Much like all roads led to Rome in our world, a name meaning "this place of love," and of Thedas. While the children of Arlathan built spires Dwarva mastered the land beneath the surface. The Dwarves literally carved an Empire for cavernous cities known as Thaigs, connected called the Deep Roads. Dwarves are a race incapable of magic. Having no mental connection to the fade, they However, what the Dwarva lacked in arcane and industry. In contrast, their non-magical status made crafting with the magically volatile but extremely While the children of the stone thrived, the Over time, certain powerful mages in Elvhenan as revered war generals, to elders treated becoming seen by their people as living gods. In total, nine Elves became powerful enough They were Elgar'nan, the god of vengeance and motherhood, Falon'din, the god of death, the goddess of the Hunt, Sylaise, the hearthkeeper, the goddess of navigation, and Fen'harel, as "the Dread wolf." The Evanuris were not benevolent gods, but Under their despotic rule, Elvhen society and high priests who showed complete devotion to enslave vast swathes of the Elven population. These slaves were branded with facial tattoos showed which of the Evanuris their noble owners Over the centuries the Evanuris warred among slaves against one another in an unending, Elves did not age, but they could be wounded Evanuris' senseless wars. However, not all the Evanuris were tyrants: depraved inclinations of her peers, while becoming a champion of the enslaved, lifting them in a crusade against the False Gods. As the flames of revolutions ravaged Elvhenan, As Fen'harel continued to elude them, they friend, Mythal. In an act of treachery, the Goddess of Love Consumed by grief, Fen'harel created the the mortal world from the fade. As a result, the Evanuris were permanently However, the cost of achieving this had been Many of Elvenhan's cities had been intrinsically severed, they began to collapse in on themselves, eons of knowledge, killing many elvhen and Moreover, after their connection to the world immortality, and for the first time in their The Glory days of the Elves were now over. Around 3100 years before the founding of the from the North. Over time, a diversity of primitive human Of the men who migrated south, the Alamarri, masters of what is now Ferelden, while the Nevarra were the domain of the Ciriane, Inghirsh, Of the men who remained north, four tribes, created Kingdoms for themselves. In their earliest days on the continent, mankind It seems that in some regions, these relations while in others, such as in the lands of the brought about violence. Either way, not long after first contact, of Arlathan, where their last great city of Later legends would claim that it was contact aging for the first time, but as we know, Fen'harel created the veil, making it all to abandon the majority of Thedas and let Originally, these early humans lived relatively simple agriculturalists, holding to an eclectic This status quo persisted for centuries, until made a discovery that would change the face Around 1595 years before the founding of the named Thalsian mastered the ability of lucid into the fade at will. While roaming the dreamworld of demons and one of the Old Gods. It is unknown exactly what the Old Gods were, power who took the form of massive dragons heart of the Fade, known as the Golden City. Whatever they were, it is said that they imparted Humans had likely already discovered various magic stood apart. Most mages cast spells by drawing on their which allows them to pull energy across the Blood mages, however, titularly use the blood Using blood as fuel gives blood mages a level cannot achieve, yet it comes at a high cost, more blood must be shed, resulting in Blood ritualistic human or elven sacrifice. Because of his discovery, Thalsian was able During his reign, the worship of the Old Gods a pantheon of seven great wyrms known as Dumat, of Chaos, Toth, the Dragon of Fire, Andoral, of Beauty, Razikale, the Dragon of Mystery, 1195 years before the founding of the Chantry, descendant of Thalsian, had united the Nerominians, In so doing, Darinius became the first Archon the most historically impactful nation in The Tevinter Imperium was a magocracy, with higher regard than those who did not, and in Imperial society. Around the same time as its founding, the of Kal-Sharok, whose King, Endrin Stonehammer, This partnership was predicated on trade, supplier of Lyrium, which was an essential magic-based society. This bond of friendship between the Empire it the longest lasting diplomatic treaty in However, for the next non-human species the not go quite as smoothly. Around 1000 years before the founding of the pioneers began building settlements on the woodland they thought to be [un?]inhabitable. There in the trees, they encountered scouts who they had never seen before. At this point in time, it had been millenia world, and as such, it is very possible that until this point, been unaware of their existence, ancestors made with the Elvhen over 2,000 During the reign of Archon Thalasian, the forests, but none returned alive. This did little to endear the Magisters to ensuing decades, border skirmishes between while Tevinter settlers were sent into the These settlements disappeared overnight, no the coaxing of Elvish magic. 981 years before the counting of the Chantry, into open war, and the Imperium unleashed Thedas' oldest people, cleaving a bloody to the Elven capital of Arlathan, which previously While still valiant warriors and powerful a shadow of their former selves, their magics had been capable of before the Dread Wolf Thus, they were ultimately unable to overcome magisters allegedly were powerful enough to war effort. After a six year siege, Arlathan fell, and most ancient and beautiful city into the earth, Some Elves managed to escape this devastation but most others were enslaved. For centuries thereafter, the descendants nothing more than a slave caste, losing much the process. The lucky ones got to toil away under Tevinter ones became grisly sacrifices in the rituals After the conquest of Arlathan, the Tevinter as their new caste of enslaved elven provided blood to empower their mages. Within the next two centuries, the Empire Wherever the Tevinters went, they enslaved same fate as the Elves, becoming thralls to Minrathous, the capital of the Empire, became and far-flung provinces were connected to that sprawled across the continent. With all that said, Tevinter control over absolute, as tribes like the Ciriane and Alamarri, by the Magisters, never stopped fighting back Moreover, Tevinter itself was rarely a stable of ambitious mages in its magisterium scheming eras where civil war could rage across the 395 years before the founding of the Chantry, Empire in the land, Corypheus the Conductor, began receiving visions. According to the Canticle of Silence, an apocryphal thus to Corypheus: "Open the gates. To my Golden City, you must sojourn. At the foot of my throne, I shall anoint you, raise you up to godhood, that all mortals Corypheus became obsessed with achieving these the waking and spiritual realms, let alone an unfathomable amount of raw magical force. So it was that Corypheus went to his esteemed High Priest of Urthemiel, the Dragon of Beauty. Upon being asked to aid Corypheus in ascending Urthemiel in his dreams. Urthemiel responded in kind with a vision, in helping man ascend to the heavens, not but so Urthemiel could make his chosen servant Thus, the Architect agreed to help the Conductor However, even between the two of them, they a physical passage into the fade. To that end, they recruited the five other Watchman of Lusacan, the Forgewright of Toth, and the Madman of Zazikel. Each one of these mighty magisters had received help Corypheus enter heaven, and that when of their peers, who achieved apotheosis. Thus, with the magisters all agreeing to work each other, mankind embarked on his quest In the following months, the seven High Priests, labouring in preparation to enter the Golden The cost would be enormous: two thirds of the lives of thousands of slaves, mostly Elves, spells. These macabre efforts bore fruit, for the veil to rip open, creating a passage for the flesh. And in so doing, they doomed the world. So it is written in the Canticle of Threnodies: each step you take in my hall. Marvel at perfection, for it is fleeting. You have brought sin to heaven, and doom upon In the modern Dragon Age, no two legends or High Priests stepped foot into the Golden The Chantry teaches that the Maker instead true God, who cast the magisters out of heaven, the primordial Draconic beings in prisons Other sources, however, claim that when the it was black as shadow, its throne laying Either way, the Magisters were forced to return corrupted ghouls, for their time in the realm bodies, making them into a new type of twisted Upon their return, any mortals who beheld would themselves become darkspawn, and thus, Although the Darkspawn are inherently vicious to be an existential threat. That is until they awaken an Archdemon. Deep in their subterranean prison, the Old darkspawn unto them. Whenever the darkspawn uncover one of the taints the ancient Dragon, turning it into This blighted divinity then assumes control horde capable of threatening all civilization The first Old God to be transformed into an the first blight began. Although the coming cataclysm was devastating who were by far hit the hardest. Having built their vast Empire deep beneath the Darkspawn first emerged. Moreover, the First Blight could not have Although they were, in theory, a unified Empire practice, each of the great Dwarven Thaigs with one another in feuds that could last Moreover, Dwarven society was deeply stratified, into the upper and middle castes, like warriors, rights and privileges than born into the lower who were not even considered people. As such, when the Blight came upon Thedas' was caught gridlocked amidst neverending internecine Before long, the darkspawn horde emerged onto Soon, the vast underground highways which of miles became infested, as Darkspawn swarmed arteries. The Dwarves, divided and distracted, were onset, completely failed to organize a unified Nearly overnight, countless cities were raised the Dwarva's history and cultural achievements Eventually, the leaders of the stout race whose leadership the Dwarves finally managed However, this came at a massive cost, for off and countless more Thaigs abandoned to of the four largest Dwarven cities: Gundaar, A beacon of hope for the Dwarves came when discovered the secret to forging Golems: huge near indestructible in battle and immune to These Golems became the backbone of the Dwarven Thaigs and stretches of the Deep Roads which However, these victories came, once again, required the soul of a living dwarf to be At first, many Dwarves volunteered for this, an instrument of war to save their race, yet but the Darkspawn threat remained dire. To compensate for this, Dwarven Kings began and political dissidents in Golem bodies. When Caridin objected to this, he was himself However, unlike other Golems, he retained To put a stop to the involuntary harvesting of the Void, the lyrium-infused device which it deep into the blighted Deep Roads. Now deprived of the ability to make more steel made on the Darkspawn were turned back around. With near complete control of the Deep Roads, network that they could use to surface almost Thus, when the Blight came upon the world leaving the armies of the Tevinter Imperium defensive front. Wherever the Darkspawn struck, the land around and turning plants to dust. The skies filled with rolling black clouds Disease and rot followed. Huge swathes of the territory became unlivable, down, there were always more to take their During their raiding and pillaging, the Darkspawn captive, bringing them to their underground process that transformed them into twisted, were capable of birthing new Darkspawn in Different Broodmothers produced different it had once been. Dwarven broodmothers spawned genlocks, human spawned shrieks. Most terrifying of all, broodmothers who had giants known as the Kossith spawned massive, If all this was not bad enough, the Archdemon than one occasion. A deadly, draconic force to be reckoned with, even when he was slain by brave warriors, he would immediately revive: his spirit simply promptly transformed back into a massive, soul. Indeed, it seemed as if the horde was unending For over a century, the Blight continued, only violence and pestilence in their lives. Barbarian tribes on the fringes of Thedas, were overrun, while in the Tevinter Imperium, The imperial masses, who for generations had into a crisis of faith when faced with the own sacred Dragon Dumat, while the other six, responded only with silence. In a cathartic fury, the citizens of the Empire had failed them, forming mobs that burned their priests. Truly, it was the darkest of times. And yet, it was when the hour was bleakest 305 years before the founding of the Chantry, the mountains of the Anderfels in the fortress They were the Gray Wardens and would bring Unlike the rest of Thedas' institutions, race or faith, taking on Dwarves, Elves, and Each member underwent a special ritual known toxic blood of the Darkspawn. This was an extremely dangerous process that Those who survived emerged enhanced, possessed to sense when they were near, and able to them an immense advantage in the battle against Riding atop massive Griffons, the Gray Wardens over the horde. Crushing victories over the darkspawn in places in morale across Thedas, rallying Tevinter the Wardens' cause. Yet, the blight continued, for the Wardens As previously mentioned, if an average person its spirit is released and travels to the The only one capable of permanently killing When a Warden strikes the deathblow, the Archdemon's creature, but that creature is the Warden. Since the Warden has a soul, the attempt by destroying both souls in the process. 203 years before the founding of the Chantry, of the remaining armies of the Tevinter Imperium Rivaini, joined with a stalwart legion of and his endless hordes at the Battle of the It was one of the bloodiest days in Thedosian cut down. Yet, it was all worth it, for in the carnage, lost to time, got in close enough to Dumat soul to the archdemon, and destroying it forever. Deprived of their leader, the Darkspawn horde back underground in droves. The first blight was over. As the darkspawn retreated back into the bowels Thedas rejoiced. Yet, for many, victory over the blight which bitter draught. One blight had been defeated, but there were deep beneath the earth, meaning future generations For the Dwarves, the first blight never truly Although without an archdemon to guide them, of the surface world, they still infested they had taken from the Dwarva, using them earth in search of Archdemons to awaken. While the world above enjoyed peace, the war Before long, the Thaigs of Gundaar and Hormak and Orzammar as the only bastions of Dwarven As for the Gray Wardens, whose order had saved death. Tainted with darkspawn blood, each warden After that, their tainted blood would begin into a subservient ghoul like any other in Knowing this to be their fate, the Wardens which, when their time came, they would venture slay as many monsters as they could before alternative to transforming into the very After suffering the inter-generational ravages was not the juggernaut it had once been. While the Darkspawn had been driven back underground, on the land was still causing droughts, landslides, As supply lines buckled, the Imperium was reducing its ability to project power onto In the heartland, people lashed out over the massive social unrest between the general As the Empire fractured from within, the aforementioned the up and up. While the Blight had hit them too, it had begun to consolidate their small, squabbling Imperial might. One example of this occurred when Elderath, in what is now northern Ferelden, married with the tribes of what is now central Orlais. In the year 203 before the founding of the produced a daughter, Andraste: the girl destined the most dominant religion on Thedas. In the modern day, the most comprehensive Chant of Light, the religious liturgy of the Like all holy scripture, the Chant has been with the true story of its Prophetess touched inspires conformity and obedience in its believers. As such, we should be careful not to take document, but neither will we ignore its usefulness Tragedy befell the young Andraste early in The girl had grown up with her half-sister, concubine. According to later historical testimony, when Halliserre wandering into the forest, entranced Andraste followed her sister into the trees; All that is known is that, when the pair were scorched by fire, with Andraste nearly still seen. After this incident, Andraste would be plagued, by fits and seizures, in which she would go visions. Upon maturing into young adulthood, Andraste chieftain of the Alemarri who controlled much Their marriage precipitated the largest alliance which stretched across most of southern Thedas The pair would not enjoy marital bliss for Sometime after -187 Ancient, a Tevinter raiding with spell and steel borne, killing her father, Following this, Maferath became the most powerful control of the confederacy forged by his late However, Elderath had been an extremely popular of the subchiefs under Maferath's command old Chieftain's legacy, his daughter back It is unclear how long Andraste languished her husband was able to negotiate her release, Back among her people, Andraste reflected for those she had left behind: the countless the other tribes of men, and Elves, who still whip. Seeking guidance in how she might bring salvation the traditional animist Gods of her people, found only silence as her reply. During these mournful days, Andraste's visions to sing to her: "Heart that is broken, beats drown. You have forgotten, spear-maid of Alamarr. Within My creation, none are alone." Indeed, if the Chant of Light is to be believed, first conclave with the Maker of the World, God of Thedas. The Maker revealed that all men, elves and turned their backs on him, prostrating themselves He elucidated that the world had once been for mankind to take their place by his side However, when the endless greed of the Magisters spurred on by the whispers of their heathenous his back on beloved children, abandoning man away in a world polluted by corruption, misery So it was that Andraste realized the truth Black City, towers all stain'd, Gates once Heav'n filled with silence, then did I know Burning with compassion for her people, Andraste chance. Reluctantly, God agreed, charging Andraste Only once all peoples across all four corners hearts as their one true deity would the Maker paradise that was promised: "For you, song-weaver, To My children venture, carrying wisdom. If they but listen, I shall return." Thus charged with a new divine purpose, Andraste Through her as its conduit, the cult of the the Alemarri, who latched on enthusiastically that magic should serve man rather than rule for the men and women who had languished for Soon, Andraste's ambitions expanded beyond After all, the Maker had declared that only all the world would paradise be restored, of an Empire where magic still ruled over chains, and where worship of the blighted So it was that Andraste beseeched her husband bring the light unto those wicked lands. Thus, the exalted march aga/inst the Tevinter In -180 Ancient, Maferath and Andraste crossed of Alemarri warriors. With the bitter rage of centuries of Imperial fervor of the Chant of Light invigorating northwards through what is now the Free Marches During these initial stages of the invasion, Still dealing with caustic political turmoil to suffer immensely from post-blight natural of their armies to the southern front. As such, Maferath's dynamic military leadership they encountered, while Andraste's preachings determined to drive deeper into Imperial lands. One internal turmoil that prevented Tevinter rising epidemic of slave rebellions in its Long had the children of Arlathan, the once-immortal of Magister chains and watched as their wives blood sacrifices. The Elves had lost much of their language, of bondage, but they had never lost their rose up en masse against their masters. According to the Chant of Light, the Elven Shartan, who spearheaded a successful uprising and annihilated the Imperial Legion, which Shartan then rallied any elf in the Empire to join forces with Andraste. This united coalition continued their northward they fought into the Empire's heartland, What started as a blinding blitzkrieg soon Up until this point, individual Tevinter magisters fires in their own provinces within the Empire at their gates. However, as Andraste, Maferath, and Shartan the Sorcerer-Lords finally put up a united and battlemages, then meeting the invaders a place called the Valarian Fields. Like with everything else in this era of history, fields is shrouded in religious myth-making. What is known is that the contest took many a siege and then back into open melee, and in an ocean of blood. Then, after a long struggle which claimed lines broke, and the Maker's faithful were The Chant of Light speaks thus: "At Shartan's At our Lady's, ten thousand swords rang A great hymn rose over Valarian fields gladly, now free." This was Andraste's greatest triumph, but her betrayal and downfall. After the victory at Valarian Fields, Maferath with Hessarian, the Archon and supreme leader There, he brokered a peace treaty that favored the full independence of southern Thedas as However, the price the Tribal Chieftain paid Archon Hessarian could accept the cessation been the squalid backward of the Empire anyways. What he could not tolerate was the rapid spread Indeed, as Andraste's armies cleaved northwards, adopted by large swaths of the Tevinter commoners, own Draconic pantheon had abandoned them and The rapid spread of a religion that preached foundations of Tevinter society, where the arcane talents to exert control over their Shortly after this meeting, Tevinter battlemages enter Andraste's provisional stronghold Taking the prophetess completely by surprise, carting her back to Tevinter. To secure peace and independence, Maferath In Chantry teachings, Maferath is traditionally victories won should be accredited to him conspired to eliminate his wife so that he Historians have since disputed this narrative, no doubt brutal, were ultimately pragmatic. After Valerian fields, while the Tevinter war effort had also begun to flag hard. Many of their most experienced war captains that, in the interest of a lightning advance, had captured ungarrisoned as they marched This had allowed Tevinter forces to reclaim threat to the Alemarri rear. Finally, with the Alemarri coalition having Maferath must have known it was possible that by the Barbarian Horde to unite his people, to the invaders' success thus far, and bring exhausted Alemarri expedition. Carted to Minrathous, then paraded before execution was to be a cruel one. Bound to a stake, and set atop a wooden pyre, burned alive as a brutal example of what happened of its Mages. However, as the flames beneath the prophet's Archon Hessarian: guilt, and moreso, pity. As the flames slowly consumed the Lady Redeemer, death now stepped forth with a blade drawn, to her suffering. Andraste's holy war was brought to a close After the hostilities, Maferath retreated domains, which he split amongst his sons. His eldest child, Isorath, was given the lands Evrion was given what is now the Free Marches, of Nevarra. Maferath himself returned to his eastern homeland, now Ferelden. For their part in the war effort, Maferath For the first time in nearly a millennium, to call their own. Tens and thousands of them would make the which they called the Dales. There, they labored to restore the eons of the fall of Arlathan. All the while, from the arid deserts of the of the Maker continued to spread, for the her into a martyr who the faithful claimed in Paradise. Ten years after Andraste's death, Archon true god. Worship of the Maker and his divine Bride of the Southlands, but ironically, Lady Redeemer's Andraste's teachings into a properly organized To demonstrate his newfound submission to revealed the truth behind her death to the own husband, had been the one who betrayed independence of his Barbarian Empire. This revelation shattered the status quo in After the exalted march on Tevinter, almost under the rule of Maferath and his sons. When the peoples of those lands discovered father had directly caused their holy prophetess' The Chant of Light is peculiarly reticent that he was killed, likely by his own sons, Soon, the sons, too, would lose control over Evrion, the middle child and ruler of the to spreading his stepmother's teachings. He willingly abdicated his throne out of shame holdings among the many tribes in the region. The other two brothers would not enjoy such In truth, tensions had been bubbling in their Nevarran, Planasene, Ciriane or others, had Alamarri chieftains. The revelation of Maferath's betrayal simply In Nevarra City, the youngest son, Verald, his court was murdered. He fled to the court of his brother, Maferath's There, both brothers were outplayed by Isorath's Jeshavis. In a ruthless ploy to free the Ciriane people into kinslaying Isorath for his throne, only killed the subsequently weakened Verald. The establishment of Jeshavis as the first is generally considered to be when the tribal romantic high culture of the modern Orlesians. Indeed, it would be the successors of Jeshavis Tevinter as the cultural and political heart and social institutions which define the daily years before the founding of the chantry, Drakon, the son of an Imperial Tevinter nobleman, prominent Ciriane chieftain. In the generations after Jeshavis, Orlais known as Gothi. Castana had ambitions to become the next Gothi As it so happened, her husband was a brilliant best by growing up among Tevinter's cutthroat With Septimius' support, Castana was able Soon after, she gave birth to their son: Kordillius When Kordillius was but a boy, he claimed had appeared before him and charged him with By the young prince's time, most of the worship of the Maker. However, outside of Tevinter, there was no tribes and clans each having their own variety traditions and versions of the Lady Redeemer's At the tender age of sixteen, Prince Drakon he lacked the loyalty of many of the clans In a bid to secure much-needed allies, he daughter of a powerful lord in Val Chevin, At the time of their marriage, Orlais was was soon to change. Kordillius and Area soon embarked upon a holy and the sword, transforming the nation from city-states into an efficient, centralized into modern-day Ferelden and Nevarra. Through these conquests, Drakon also forced orthodox version of Andraste's chant of faith. To further glorify his god, the righteously fortress, which had once been the seat of In its place, he had erected a grand temple song of Andraste shall forever after be heard." After a successful spree of conquests, Kordillius and, in the waning years of the ancient era, As his first act in the Imperial office, Drakon the Andrastian faith. He declared that an official Church, the Chantry, authority to interpret the Chant of Light. To lead the Chantry, Emperor Drakon appointed in Drakon's armies during his wars of unification arts of war and for her devotion to her faith. In Olessa, Drakon saw an echo of Andraste, So it was that Olessa became the first divine name of "Justinia." This day marks the end of the ancient era, year one of the Divine Age. One of the first acts of the Chantry was to magic. After all, when Tevinter had ruled the world, Moreover, the practical risks of magic use, were a threat to anyone who lived in proximity However, in the early years of the Divine suppress the use of magic, which continued by rogue hedge mages, cultists and heretics. In response to the rampant and unchecked sorcery vigilantes called the Inquisition was created: from the tyrannies and dangers of the arcane Before tensions between mages, the Chantry parties found themselves facing bigger problems. In the fifth year of the Divine Age, the Darkspawn, deep roads, found and awakened the Old God beginning the second Blight. Like the first blight, the second was a calamity However, unlike during the time of accursed and a holy purpose to unite behind. Indeed, in the first decades of Zazikel's armies of mighty Orlais led the charge against The Emperor was nothing if not a pragmatist of nature like the Darkspawn, he needed powerful they were. To that end, he enlisted the help of Orlais' on their practice, and permitted them to use This culminated in the Nevarran accord, which organization governed and monitored by the As members of the Circle, mages would be allowed However, they would also be isolated from they were locked in, unless granted leave To enforce these rules, the Inquisition of order under Chantry authority which was charged refused to join the Circle or escaped from for the mages within Circle towers to ensure arts. Knowing the Gray Wardens were the only force the Darkspawn had brought their full might Here, Emperor Drakon achieved one of his finest siege, delivering the Wardens from certain So impressed were the Wardens by Drakon's to the teachings of the Chantry. Indeed, wherever Drakon's armies fought, they spread the Chant of Light. Through the crisis of the blight, the authority her Andrastian armies proved themselves to world and oblivion. In the 45th year of the Exalted Age, Kordillius took up the mantle and never let up against In year 95 of the Exalted Age, the Gray Warden Now future generations only had five more By the end of the second blight, numerous the political geography of the continent beginning modern Dragon Age. In the south, the Empire of Orlais was the In the Free Marches, the descendants of former had coalesced into a disunited league of city-states, the most politically relevant. Originally, the city of Nevarra was one such leadership of the Pentaghast dynasty, it rapidly formidable Kingdom in its own right. No such political centralization would occur of Andraste's homeland. Although the region today is home to the Kingdom until the fifth age. The Alemarri would remain a stubbornly disunited In the north, the political reach of ailing were birthed out of the Empire's former The free-spirited peoples of Rivain had rebelled for themselves in the waning years of the that Antiva, a hive of smuggling and piracy of good repute. Antiva, for its part, would never forget its a nation famous for the House of Crows, the on Thedas. Meanwhile, in the northwest, Tevinter had it after the second blight, and eventually, There is an immense amount of cultural diversity far been mentioned. And yet, throughout Thedas, peoples as different a Nevarran crypt sweeper or a Ferelden dog adherents of the same Church. Indeed, from Rialto Bay to the Western Approach Chantry was the chief religious body that lives. There was, however, one exception to this There could be no doubt that the Tevinter In fact, they had been organizing the Andrastian had appointed Divine Justinia as the first As such, while the authority of the Orlesian the ancient Empire guardedly kept to their Soon, tensions between the Chantry and the irresolvable doctrinal disputes. The Grand Clerics of Tevinter Andrastianism whose hierarchy was comprised exclusively This was because Andraste herself had been too prone to anger, jealousy and passion to Maferath had been when he betrayed his divine However, by far, the greatest source of conflict Canticle of Transfigurations in the Chant never to rule over him.&quot; The Orlesian Chantry fulfilled this verse them in circle towers away from society. However, Tevinter had been ruled by mages trait, prized and nurtured through selective These old habits died hard even after the Thus, when the Imperial Clerics argued that serve man and never to rule over him,' it which was best accomplished by allowing mages those with arcane prowess to retain their Eventually, it became evident that this liturgical of the Orlesian Chantry declared the worshippers In response, the Archon of the Imperium officially appointing its own Divine, a man, at the head To this day, the religious rivalry between an omnipresent source of tension in Thedosian Whatever the case, by the end of the Divine Thedas' dominant race, was now subscribed However, the Chantry did not intend to stop After all, it had been one of Andraste's Light had spread to all four corners of the would the Maker return to make the world a After successfully liberating the whole of the Empire to secure his land gains, Maferath, his massive new holdings in the family, dividing one exception. As a reward for fighting alongside Andraste's that the Elves would have a homeland of their land of the Dales, located in what is now Across northern Thedas, hundreds of thousands were born into slavery and grew up in chains, Many died on this trek, which involved cutting untamed wilderness. Set upon by human bandits and wild animals many began to despair and consider returning "At least in Tevinter," they said, "we What do we have here? Nothing but the open sky and the prospect And although some individuals would peel away the vast majority's resolve never broke There, they founded the city of Halamshiral, end of the journey." Finally independent once more, the Elves were ancient Elvhenan, speak their original tongue, However, this was easier said than done. Countless generations of slavery under the most of their language, culture, and history. What survived was a patchwork of folk stories, of the old Elvish tongue passed down in secret The Hahren, or Elders of the Dales, did their knowledge and stitch them back up into a coherent Despite this, many of the truths of ancient For instance, the Elves of the Dales worshipped Elven pantheon. They believed the Evunaris to be benevolent with the gifts of the earth: with Sylaise gift of fire, Dirthamen the Keeper of Secrets June, God of the Craft having given the elves The Dalish Elves also believed that Fen'harel and malicious treachery, deceived the Evanuris known to them as "the Beyond," which is immortality, why Arlathan fell, and why the a millennium of slavery. The fact that the Evanuris were not true gods had not been benevolent beings but instead more akin to a freedom fighter than a scheming to time. In spite of the fact that this new nation's fairytale than reality, it still became a sophistication that only the Elves were capable Within only a few generations, the Dales had woven seamlessly into the natural woodland It was a far cry from Ancient Elvhenan, which metaphysical dimensions, but it was a land The Elves were, of course, armed. Never again would they be slaves, and to protect an order of warriors devoted to protecting Each knight rode into battle atop a type of who fought at their side. Initially, the relationship between the Dalish good. After all, both the elves and southern menfolk fighting side by side to win their freedom Yet, the Elves would soon discover that human by the righteousness of religious zealotry. As we have covered previously, in the centuries humans underwent a rapid metamorphosis as Orlesian Empire through fire and blood, spreading point of a spear and founding the Chantry, to govern the vast majority of humanity on Emperor Drakon considered himself a righteous expansionist policies with alarm, seeing echoes ascendant Orlais. As such, the Dalish Kingdom severed diplomatic a policy of near-total isolationism. The growing enmity was mutual. It was a core Andrastian belief that only the peoples of Thedas would the Maker return By now, almost all humans were adherents of but the nonhuman peoples of the continent The Dwarves of Orzammar were not a realistic faithful. The stout mountain dwellers were the continent's trade which could be disrupted if the Church into their lands. No such commercial interests protected the by slaves who had once fought alongside Andraste of the Maker and re-embraced the heathen idols Tensions between Orlais and the Dales worsened which the elvhen refused to help the Orlesians, even as the lands of their neighbours were It is even said that, in year 25 of the Divine city of Montsimmard, an elven army watched After Orlais emerged from the blight, bloodied missionaries into the Dales. When these priestesses were turned away, the lands in their place. By the end of the divine age and the beginning pressurized to explode as the Chantry began as sacrifices in blood rituals. Soon, small-scale skirmishes became common As is so often the case, the road to total and personal tragedy. In the ninth year of the glory age, an elven for having unknowingly strayed over the Orlesian Siona, the woman's sister and an emerald grief. In this, she sought the aid of her brother, Elandrin refused. As much as he grieved for losing his youngest humankind. Later, it was revealed why: he had fallen town of Red Crossing. Siona was blinded by rage. She had lost one sibling to human swords, human God. With a commando of Emerald Knights, she rode him to come home. When they arrived at the hamlet, they were with a letter in her hand. She would never get to read it out. Without hesitation, Siona ordered her men with arrows and killed. Her screams roused some of the village folk, elves, but they were no match and were cut As more humans poured out of their homes, were forced to retreat. Only then did Elandrin emerge to be met with Even in death, he refused to leave his lover's To the vengeful humans, it made no difference: was butchered in revenge for his sister's The letter in Adalane's clutches, written Adalene, for a Maker I do not know? Let others distract themselves with such lofty I know only this life, I have seen only this Perhaps your priestess distrusts the sincerity If she must hear me say I will follow the Your god intercedes as much as ours. My life will not change. I will return in two weeks' time. My heart longs for you 'til then, and will Elandrin After the massacre at Red Crossing, the Empire Dales, and the contest for the fate of the The Elves struck fast and struck hard, storming and blitzing into Orlesian land. In 2:10 Glory, the Emerald Knight Vaharel it in a lightning strike. As the Elves continued to storm through eastern of Val Royeaux, panic spread throughout the In response, Divine Renata I of the Chantry all the Andrastian nations to take up arms However, none of the other human nations provided own affairs. By the end of 2:14 Glory, Elven armies had a brutal sack and plundering the sacred tomb arms and armour back to Halamshiral to be This was a crippling blow to the great Andrastian Orlais was a huge country with vast reserves which their opponents simply could not match. Indeed, although the Dalish had almost every those engagements was felt sorely, while for three more peasants in the countryside ready By using attrition to their advantage, the and turn the tide. Eventually, they liberated Val Royeaux and out of Orlais before advancing into the Dales. The Emerald Knights made the Andrastians pay into the Elvish forests, but they could not By 2:20, Glory Orlesian and Chantry banners and soon after, the Elven Capital fell. Even after this, the Dalish refused to surrender. The last holdouts of the Elvish army led by to a place called Dirthavaren to make a final Here, they faced down an Orlesian army led the Chantry. The Elves were cut down to the last man and death, so too did the dream of Elven Freedom At the conclusion of the Exalted March, the were annexed by the Empire of Orlais, which Elven domain. The shrines to the elven gods were struck Light was sung. The faithful rejoiced, for the word of the the earth, and thus He was one step closer As for the Elves themselves, whose fate now had this to say: "Even Maferath the Betrayer Who are we to say the elves do not? The Elves were guilty of the greatest sin, But we will show them mercy, for that is what For the heirs of Arlathan, this "mercy" They were subject to mass deportation, forced squalid, walled-off sections of human cities like second-class citizens. Moreover, they were forced to fully assimilate Gods and converting to Andrastianism, undoing revive the ancient knowledge of Elvhenan and religion to a slow and pitiful extinction. The Elves would not be enslaved people, as the Tevinter Imperium, but they became a ghettoized Some, however, refused this fate. Rather than submitting to Andrastian "mercy," committed to roaming the continent as a homeless, These itinerant wandering tribes, known as would continue to reject the human God. It would be in them that the last vestiges Life among the nomadic Dalish was tough, and lands, but they survived nonetheless and continue With Elven independence vanquished for the to remain deep under the earth, fighting a believed there would be no more obstacles of Light to all four corners of the earth. They would be wrong. Before we move on to the next chapter in the the clock to the time before the rise of the In the ancient age, 410 years before the founding giant folk from a faraway northern continent where they established a colony. Virtually nothing is known about this horned in the records of the Tamassrans: Kossith. During the first blight, the Darkspawn overran Thereafter, memory of the giant folk would twisted, blighted descendants, the Ogres within of Thedas for centuries. Let us now leap back to where we left off age in the Chantry calendar, and the Kingdom and the Andrastian faith as the monopolistic above the surface. The next three ages, the towers, black, and by two major themes: holy war between the Tevinter and the continuation of the blights. Over the centuries, the armies of Thedas had the Darkspawn threat. Whereas the First Blight lasted nearly two the third and fourth blights, which occurred more than a decade. During the fourth blight, the armies of the army united and led by the most unlikely of in an alienage slum. However, these triumphs came at a cost, for famous Griffons, which the Gray Wardens had In the sixth Chantry epoch, the Steel Age, In 6:30 Steel, a race of ashen-skinned giants, in the northern hemisphere, landed on the conquered the isles' indigenous human population. These invaders were most likely the descendants colony in the Korcari wilds in the ancient appearance on Thedosian soil, the horned behemoths Their old culture, old gods, and even their They now called themselves Qunari, followers Founded by the philosopher Ashkaari Koslun date, the Qun was not a religion, for it worshipped Instead, it was a form of social architecture an extreme form of complete and total conformity To a Qunari, individualism is the greatest The Qun teaches that their entire civilization is a single cell responsible for fulfilling body function. This belief is reflected in the tripartite society into three segments: the military, workers, which represents the organism's the organism's soul. Consequently, Qunari leadership is a governing representing the body, an Arigena representing Under the Qun, no social mobility or freedom Nor does the concept of love or nuclear family Procreation is strictly controlled through are raised communally by the Tamassrans: an When children come of age, the Tamassrans then serve for the rest of their lives. So complete is this conformity that the Qunari referred to by their title. For example, in the Dragon Age, a Qunari warrior who called himself 'Sten,' which in the Commander.' In the Qun, a person's identity was their Perhaps the most unenvious role to be assigned 'dangerous thing.' The Qunari, like men and elves, are a race the Qun uses draconian methods to regulate However, a sorcerer in a sequestered yet comfortable to how their Qunari counterparts are treated. 'Saarebas' are kept masked, collared, Their every moment is spent under the watch Saarebas are essentially treated like organic they wield kept under lock and key so it can Qun. Despite the almost comically draconian nature sort of egalitarianism to it as well. The Qun teaches that all beings are equal between the highest Arishok and the lowest their designated role for the organism's wellbeing. Whatever one's opinion on mandatory conformity, highly efficient. What it lacks in freedom, it makes up for finding comfort in having every difficult Indeed, wherever Qunari armies conquered, to the Qun through willing conversion or by 'learning camps.' For example, within a single generation, the been almost entirely assimilated. Nowadays, their ancient culture, whatever only by the ruins of ancient Pyramids, long In 6:32 Steel, a host of massive Qunari dreadnoughts of Antiva and the isle of Seheron. Soon, their ground forces made landfall. Thus began the war to conquer the lands of se, but as purposeless souls who needed to Through conventional warfare, the Qunari horde through the sheer size of their giant shock Saarebas were capable of. However, the invaders also possessed an advanced people of Thedas: gaatlok, an explosive black or adaar. Initially, the nations of northern Thedas invasion, and their defences melted like a Within a decade of landing, the Qunari had through most of the Tevinter Imperium, with of Minrathous holding out against the foreign After stabilizing their hold on a conquered populace. Learning camps were set up, and the locals Many poor Tevinters converted willingly, seeing as a preferable alternative to Magister cruelty. Indeed, wherever the Qunari conquered, they of Thedas' hierarchical, feudalistic societies. Elves, either living as second-class citizens Mages, were particularly susceptible to the Despite this, overall resentment against the 6:55 Steel, massive, widespread rebellions Tevinter Imperium. Taking advantage of this, Tevinter forces of allies from all across the Andrastian nations, The invaders retreated back to Antiva, Rivain There, the Qunari entrenched themselves, and Fourty years later, the Steel Age came to Divine Renata, predicting the seventh of the and bloodshed, declared that it would be named She was right. In 7:25 Storm, the impossible happened: the slaughtering one another in endless holy wars against their common enemy. Yet, even with their forces combined, the to dislodge the horned colossi from their Three exalted marches were launched against The first was successful, with Andrastian The gains made in this campaign were largely of Magi, whose spellcraft proved an effective magic. During this time, the Tome of Koslun, the and the most sacred book in Qun society, was 27 years later, a second exalted march was disaster, with the Qunari crushing the expedition Following this, the antaam pushed southwards, Starkhaven and Kirkwall. In 7:55 Storm, a third Exalted March was launched. This time, Chantry forces made an unlikely notorious hub of pirates. These buccaneers had little love for the Kingdoms upon for booty, but they certainly had no forced to surrender their rugged, freedom-loving conformity. Thus, the freebooters united into a massive raised the black flag against the Qunari host. The pirates made a critical impact on the Qunari navy and disrupting the enemy's naval to push back into Antiva and Rivain steadily. In 7:78 Storm, the raiders even managed to and take the strategically crucial island Despite this, the struggle was still long, Years of fighting stretched out into decades, The worst sufferers in this prolonged slug whose homelands had been turned into desolate, fought over every hill and village, condemning or as collateral damage. Before long, the resources of every nation with their treasuries empty and populations casualties. Meanwhile, despite the countless horned giants if the Qunari were under no such socioeconomic Indeed, it stands to reason that a borderline churning out soldiers in much the same way Contemporary Thedosian historians often comment setbacks which forced the Arishok's forces concern for the mass destruction and death After all, their sacred objective was conversion, Their goal was to bring the purposeless Bas strict father would teach selflessness and This could not be achieved by waging a war determined to make them do if they were ever In 7:84, envoys of the Andrastian nations gathered in the pirate isle of Llomeryn and In the titular Llomeryn accords, the Andrastian dominion over the northern Archipelago of from Antiva and Rivain. One nation not present at these peace talks the most during the initial wave of Qunari Driven by bitter vengeance, the Imperial Magisters To this day, the war still rages between them of the isle of Seheron. In Northern Thedas, much of which was under invaders' impact on the land is still observable When the Chantry regained control of those and elves who had converted to the Qun hard Eventually, the Church decided that what it it would achieve through fire and sword. Thousands of Qun converts, especially in Rivain, mass graves. However, even this did not permanently root Even today, the Qun has a firm stronghold in the port city of Kont-aar. Thus, the philosophy of the Qunari retained At the beginning of the modern Dragon Age, again, but it seems only a matter of time coasts of Tevinter and Antiva once more, bringing Thedas once more. Since the story of the Qunari does not yet southeast, back to the sacred homeland of A century before northern Thedas was gripped ancient tribes of the Lady Redeemer's sacred In the waning centuries of the Ancient Age, driving force of Thedas' destiny. After all, the Bride of the Maker had been had been the backbone of the army that toppled After Andraste's martyrdom, her widower their King, but after the earth-shattering was quickly deposed. Consequently, while other Andrastian lands ages of the Chantry calendar crystalizing alpine woodlands and rolling plains of Andraste's warlords known as Teyrns, who ruled over large Each Teyrnir was subdivided into Bannorns, rural farmlands, and Arlings, which were ruled city and its hinterland. It should also be noted that while the Alemarri tribes also dotted the landscape, such as and the shamanistic Chasind of the swampy Overall, the clans of Ferelden were a bellicose for the allegiance of Banns and Arls, and for the allegiance of various localized land-owning Infact, these warring states were so proverbially Ferelden historian notes, a war was once fought war dog. It would be the fifth Chantry epoch in which would transform Andraste's homeland into first to wear its crown. Calenhad Theirin was born in the tenth year merchant from Highever. What his immediate family lacked in funds, Calenhad was the distant cousin of Ser Forannan, Consequently, as a young man, Calenhad was Hill to serve as a squire. Almost immediately, Calenhad was wrapped up a rival noble, Arl Myrddin, laid siege to After encircling and blockading the castle, forth from his walls and discuss terms with Despite the inviolable nature of the right refused to entreat with his foe. Instead, the Arl dressed Calenhad up in his him in his stead. However, being a bold and principled boy, to Myrddin when he came face to face with More amused than anything, Arl Myrddin revealed of parley and kill Tenedor, but that he greatly in his masters' stead. In recognition for his gallantry, Myrddin Calenhad dogmatically refused, unwilling to use treachery to eliminate his foe. Shortly after this encounter, Arl Myrddin Although Myrddin's forces were successful Myrddin himself was accosted by Calenhad and Holding the Arl's life in his hands, Calenhad In gratitude for his clemency, Myrddin recognized and swore both himself and his armies into Hence, overnight, Calenhad was transformed Suddenly possessed of one of the most capable decision to make a play for Kingship, and since Maferath the Betrayer to unify the Alemarri As it turns out, Calenhad was a natural soldier One by one, he defeated the petty Nobles of Arls and Teyrns alike swore fealty to him. As Teyrn Theirin's successes mounted, so One of these was the Ash Warriors, an elite mabari war dogs, and for their guiding principle cause they deem just. In addition, Calenhad was also able to recruit circle tower, the latter of which was said armour which had been forged in the magical was built. All in all, it can be said that what Emperor to Ferelden. His wars of unification came to an end when fell to him. In the 42nd year of the Exalted Age, all the in the city of Denerim, and unanimously recognized From that day forth, the Alemarri were finally with the House of Theirin serving as its royal To the rest of Thedas' Andrastian Kingdoms, Orlesians, Ferelden is considered a backwater of their dogs. However, her people are still admired for sense of warrior's gallantry. This love-hate sentiment is embodied by a I of Orlais: "As a people, the Fereldens They repelled invasions from Tevinter during dogs and their own obstinate disposition. They are coarse, willful, dirty, disorganized ushered in an era of enlightenment, and toppled While the perception of the Fereldens as an One can understand how the other nations of Religiously, the Kingdom of the Theirins is that Andraste herself was born in its lands. However, even though the Orlesian Chantry order, signs of the Alemarri peoples' ancient, Animist symbols are still a common motif in while stories of the old Gods are still told, at children. The Chantry branch in Ferelden is surprisingly its clergy makes no effort to stamp them out. Indeed, the old Gods of the forest, swamps his holy bride simply stand above them. Even after its unification, the political drastically. Under the Theirin dynasty, the Banns, Arls only now owing their allegiance to a common for power. Much of ancient Alemarri tradition survived custom of all: the Landsmeet. In ancient times, the Landsmeet was an assembly with one another. After the unification of the nation, it became vassals, who had considerable power over the Indeed, any heir apparent to the Theirin bloodline being crowned, and the Landsmeet had the power through a majority vote. To outside observers, whose monarchies were was seen as a chaotic, backwards custom. After all, why would a King put himself at Yet to the Fereldens, it was a wonderful expression so valued by their people. Religion and politics aside, no discussion about man's best friend. Outsiders often derisively refer to Ferelden Ferelden's canophilic tendencies likely was the first Teyrn of the Alemarri, and according Dogs are everywhere in Ferelden, guarding armed forces. Perhaps the most recognizable and treasured hound, hyper-intelligent animals allegedly A terrifying beast to face down on the battlefield, of any respectable Ferelden nobles' levies. Like all the Kingdoms of Thedas, Ferelden While the descendants of the mainstream Alemarri the nation's demography, many other peoples, social fabric. Having rejected the authority of the Theirin Alemarri, such as the aforementioned Avvar society. Forced from the central Ferelden valley, deep homelands, these two tribes have remained civilized cousins. Indeed, while the Clayne-Alemarri clans of of Light, the Avvar and Chasind continue to the spirits of the earth, the waters and the In Fereldens cities, crowded, dirty alienages their daily lives. Much like in every other Andrastian Kingdom, doing society's dirtiest jobs for half what Yet, for all their suffering, the Elves of counterparts in countries do not have. Serfdom as a concept does not exist in Ferelden, and all are entitled to move freely and work This right is extended to the Elves, but since common and virulent, most choose to stay within Meanwhile, their distant kinsmen, the Dalish woodlands, and it is not uncommon to see caravals forest, driven by the children of the Evanuris God to this day, keeping to their old Gods Unlike the Elves, Dwarves generally have an society. Ferelden benefits from being in close proximity which still maintains diplomatic relations of the incredibly lucrative conduit of the Beyond the subterranean citizens of Orzammar, in cities like Highever and Denerim. These are usually well-to-do leaders in commerce, trade between Orzammar and human-kind. Even if in theory, any Dwarf who leaves the the rigid laws of the Orzammar Shaperate, From the Steel Age onwards, Ferelden's relatively never-ending bloodbath of the Qunari invasions. Nevertheless, its history was not without By the 5th year of the seventh Chantry epoch, was growing deeply unpopular with the nobles Secretly, some of the Kingdoms most powerful Dryden, a noble woman with a blood claim to The only issue was that Sophia was the Commander which stood above national politics, and devoted Nevertheless, Warden-Commander Dryden decided and launched a rebellion against the throne. This insurrection was eventually crushed, banished from Ferelden, where they would have Although the Gray Wardens were a formidable threat looming over the horizon. In the 24th year of the eight Chantry epoch, Orlais, known also as Reville the Mad, launched King Vanedrin Theirin was killed in battle, to win the confidence of the Landsmeet. As such, many Banns and Arls sided with the their lands and privileges under the new Orlesian The Theirin dynasty was now fighting a losing of stubborn, dogmatic valiance, it still took the country. Modern historians in Ferelden consider the years, to be a dark blot on their country's One such commentator gloomily remarked that: their freedom over all else, were forced to The Empire declared our elves property and Chevaliers routinely plundered freeholds of excused it as &quot;taxation.&quot; And for 70 years no Landsmeets were held, laws a form of treason." And yet, there was hope on the horizon. In the waning years of the Blessed Age, a army with the help of a rebel-champion, the to retake his country. The revolutionary war that followed was successful, Ferelden became a free country once more. In the 30th year of the Dragon Age, the Archdemon The nation of Ferelden was the first to be the earth in the southern Korcari wilds. Facing this threat head on, King Cailan Theirin the tainted horde. However, in the battle that ensued, he was vassal, Loghain Mac Tir. What happens next is no longer determined to tell. Indeed, from here on out, the fate of Ferelden, We hope you've enjoyed this series and that of Dragon Age. We plan to cover the battles of many other so make sure you have subscribed and pressed Please, consider liking and sharing, as it - we will try to read and respond to every about this video and which videos you hope This is the Wizards and Warriors channel,