- [Narrator] The taste of Unconsciously we become So much so that the food industry likes to use it in countless products. The demand for vanilla has risen dramatically in recent In order to get the best brown pods, traders go difficult ways. - For me, vanilla is the queen of spices. (gentle tribal music) - [Narrator] The vanilla boom Crime is on the rise. - The vanilla thieves trying to steal vanilla here. - [Narrator] Lynched vanilla demands a high price. (inspirational orchestral music) (birds chirping) The vanilla orchid, hand pollinated, the orchid blossom produces green pods. The elaborate processing give it's brown color, exudes a sensual aroma and is in demand worldwide. Antananarivo Airport, Vanilla dealer, Jurg Brand in the sack's material. His destination is difficult to reach, the city of Mananara in - [Brand] The fact that the cyclones that came over Madagascar have increased the price of vanilla but in my opinion, it's The cyclones may have effected but at the same time we have I think it's just a question and demand is still very high. - [Narrator] It is a two hour The vanilla dealer is known, one of several dealers in the city. He has lived in Madagascar Most vanilla dealers here Brand is an exception. Around 40,000 people live in Mananara. There's only one paved road. The branch of Jurg Plant, it has the function of a stock exchange. Representatives of the to fix the prices for the harvest. - I'm a little nervous because How expensive will vanilla be? Will it possibly become - [Narrator] For some time now, farmers have been experiencing A kilo of processed vanilla costs 35 euros just a few years ago. Today it costs over 600 The farmers expect this to continue, which makes negotiations difficult. - There is a strategy, which why I think the prices they hope the prices will stay high. The problem with the negotiations is that we are the price makers here, which means that all people and then adjust to those prices. - [Narrator] It's tough competition and Brand can miscalculate. - There may be adjustments, the price could even go up of course. If we agree on a prices and then we won't get any vanilla anymore, they'll simply keep it. - [Narrator] Two hours later. (group clapping) The clapping seals the deal. The price this year, 400 euros for a kilo of processed vanilla. Before export. (suspenseful music) (waves lapping) Sambava, a vanilla center of the country, about 100 kilometers further North. The pretty beach idle is deceptive. Here, the battle for vanilla has taken on extreme proportions. Marino Rajaonina is considered the voice of the vanilla farmers. The only journalist in the world to deal almost exclusively Every evening he reports and crimes around the A dangerous job, he was kidnapped and threatened with death several times. Never the less, almost daily he travels to the villages of the region, listening to the concerns Radio is often their The rumor mill is boiling. The radio reporter wants (dramatic orchestral music) The villagers tell him about fraudulent merchants 70% of their crops are They feel defenseless, The police usually let the peasants down. That's why they think - Only a week ago, a young family man was caught red handed and killed by the village community. - I witnessed one murder so far, they killed him right in front of me. Usually the vanilla farmers don't call me until after the murder. - [Narrator] The lynch law of the farmers is carried out with machetes, the reporter documented over 90 murders in the first half of 2018. Ten of them were farmers Official numbers don't exist. Murderers never get caught. A vanilla farmer takes the All the green pods she explains Even before they were really ripe. Rarely are thieves caught by the police as in these pictures of the reporter. If they are, the farmers wife says, they are released through bribes. Thefts are a huge problem. The farmers say that more than 70% of their crops are stolen, a controversial number but The reporter meets an interview partner. The American has been living working for the US Peace Corps. He rather believes in 30% to 50% loss. - That's such a high number, I feel like people would And there'd be more, But what I see is people and buying TV's and computers So it doesn't seem like 70% of - [Narrator] Authorities That's why the journalist is so important. But who commissions the thefts? For many farmers it is clear. The big companies from Europe and America. The rumors are persistent and the name of a German company is mentioned again and again. - The farmers have no proof But a lot of people complain about it and there are rumors. Simrise stated that they They claim they're not - [Narrator] The vanilla reporter wants to get to the bottom of this, his destination, the branch (gentle tribal music) (truck motors whirring) Back in the Mananara region, is fighting his way through the jungle on the way to the plantations. - In order to get the best vanilla, you have to take stony paths here. - [Narrator] It can take him five hours to cover 15 kilometers. - But roads simply belong For many men, this of to drive on such roads, even - [Narrator] The huge island State off the African South-East There is a unique animal and plant world. (birds chirping) There is hardly another place where the vanilla grows better. Climate and soil are ideal. 80% of the vanilla comes from here. Actually, the whole country But as in many African countries, the money remains with only a few. Of the 25 Million 92% live on less than two euros a day. The catastrophic road conditions make the supply in the country difficult and that's why Jurg Brand always Gifts maintain friendship, - We bring them tools, the machetes so they can And shovels, they make the Shovels so they can work the fields. - [Narrator] Brand not but also deliver organic quality. He associates some gifts - They get the material from that all the organic requirements are met and that there is no contact with material that has already been in contact with pesticides or chemicals. So every year we give them new material to avoid that our vanilla or chemical residues. - [Narrator] Around this a particularly good aroma. Locals show Brand the way Another two hour hike. The valuable plants are guarded A sip of homemade - Most vanilla plantations and hard to reach. Of course there are also They are then relatively - [Narrator] Vanilla When planted wrongly, they suffer. - Exactly, you just explained of sunburn on the vanilla plant. It happens when the plants don't get 50% shade from the big trees. Too much sun gives sunburn on the leaves and that effects productivity. - [Narrator] Above the village Everywhere the farmers have so they get their typical brown color. At the beginning, the Then they are treated with hot water and reach a dark brown tone and the typical aroma by extensive drying. - This is the vanilla ready for export. With great aroma and You need about six kilos to make one kilo of this vanilla. (dramatic orchestral music) - [Narrator] Hamburg, here the is causing headaches. The city's spice traders must pass on the high prices to consumers. Christoph Hantke operates He sees strong competition - Vanilla has become very and above all, because also play an important role. The need for vanilla is huge So prices go through the roof. - [Narrator] The trader obtains most of his pods directly from Madagascar as a powder or as a whole, he usually sells the valuable Vanilla is not just any old product for the Hamburg spice retailer. - Of course the smell and I will never forget how I ate the first vanilla ice cream. - [Narrator] Hantke likes to to make the extreme price It's problematic. - Unfortunately I have no other choice because the prices have risen so much and I don't know how to - [Narrator] Restaurants claims that only recently while he is now supposed to pay $720 euros for the same amount of vanilla. He jokes that Christoph Hantke is probably on holiday too often. They finally agree on Almost $670 euros a kilo, a premium price. But he reckons it was worth it. But now it's time to take a The chef thinks that the top - It's similar to other foods sectors, whether it's truffles, saffron or turbit, at some point we get out. - [Narrator] But today business - I'm in a state of happiness. (motor whirring) - [Narrator] Sambawa, Madagascar. Investigative journalist Marino Rejaonina is still on the trail who's responsible for his target, the German corporation. Simrise produces fragrances and aromas. The reporter was here unannounced His journalistic resources are limited. (drone beeping) With the help of our if the company already has bags of green vanilla on the premises. This would be forbidden at this time because the harvest is Nothing can be seen from the air. And the families of that there is still no green vanilla here. The vanilla reporter wants He gets an appointment via Together with the translator He has no idea what to expect, he has not had good experiences But this reception is friendly. The French manager shows - What is true here in Madagascar and especially in fine vanilla is that you will always found some actors who will buy vanilla before the opening. But fortunately, it's regarding the quantity - [Narrator] The volumes tend They would hardly be relevant - We cannot afford to do something wrong, I mean we are so much who don't like us, that it's - [Narrator] In fact many with state reprisals here. The caution is understandable. In his evening program, Rejaonina reports live from his research. Considering his possibilities, the reporter has achieved a lot today. He'll keep up the story is out of focus for now. (dramatic orchestral music) (birds twittering) Jurg Brand in a village near Mananara, 2,000 people live here. A week ago their village with a vanilla dealer, now their green vanilla. The degree of maturity of the pods is particularly important for Brand. - If many pods were harvested then we don't have the vanilla - [Narrator] An important with the sale of their that Brand has granted them - Most of the pods have a which means that the maturity If it's already split, it's overripe. - [Narrator] Brand can rule out that vanilla thieves also - We can even see the NGN is the owners name which really comes from his field The stamps are like a signature. - [Narrator] Good produce for good money. None of the farmers here have No one knows what is conjured The Swiss is considered but he also knows the tricks. - For the buyers there's the possibility to declare less weight and to say, we only paid a then they never show up again. And the worst thing which is if the buyer pays The people here are very isolated. They don't know exactly and which aren't. - [Narrator] The SUV's are loaded. Brand buys green vanilla because he can increase his profit margin and ensure quality through First the green pods are (water splashing) The spice is then The pods must sweat for two days now, only then does the typical - The effect is that of the cells is killed and So the transformation of glyc or vanillin into a vanilla takes place. - [Narrator] In the next six weeks, the vanilla is laid out but always comes back into the box. After that, the drying process. For almost two months, an enormous effort to guaranty the unique Finally, the product - Here the vanilla is massaged again, so that is can unfold its full aroma. It doesn't do this because but because the massage mixes and so the aroma can - [Narrator] Each of gives the spice it's high value. With the transport to Europe the price almost doubles. Gondiswil in Switzerland. The importer Fornatec, has imported the vanilla from Jurg Brand and has the pods Its managing director checks the goods. - Fresh smell, typical bourbon vanilla. - [Narrator] The pods Vanilla worth millions is shredded. - What do you see here now on my glove, the very small black seeds If you buy a yogurt or a vanilla milk, you can check yourself if - [Narrator] Extracts, vanilla that can be dosed is in demand. It is used in many products worldwide. The natural pod becomes a - The industry demands an aseptic extract which the bean itself can't offer. It contains water and through extraction, we free the vanilla bean from water and thus obtain an extract - [Narrator] The alcohol removes all aroma components from the because that is what makes In addition to the thousands of other components that make up their unique aroma. - This is now the finished vanilla extract as it goes to the industry. All the ingredients from these And filled up with ethnol - [Narrator] Yogurt, vanilla then reappears in small drops in supermarket products. (haunting tribal music) Hamburg, vanilla retailer Christoph Hantke is not a friend of mass produced goods from the refrigerated shelf, his customers are mainly He's delivering the vanilla. - The products in the refrigerated shelves of our supermarkets consist But it still says, contains vanilla. - [Narrator] Hantke only supplies whole pods for the catering trade. Head chef Cornelius knows a trick to enhance the taste once again. - We briefly put the vanilla only for a few seconds, you The aroma unfolds and They are puffed up and much - [Narrator] But the Meanwhile the market is also China and Indonesia play - Most important is to get good There is a lot more bad and finding a reliable vanilla supplier, that's very important for us. Vanilla is always exciting even in a hearty meal. That's that last touch for me and for us. Which might make the whole dish a bit different from everything else. We let the whole thing simmer while we do the veal sweetbread. - [Narrator] Even the again and again to see what - A bit of freshness from lemon thyme but then the vanilla Vaudovan sauce. Noble bourbon vanilla is a difficult situation Fortunately for me the point where I say I will get out. Of course the high prices and I have sleepless nights watching how the prices (gentle tribal music) - [Narrator] In Madagascar too, the value of vanilla is well known. Business has changed. It's not only crime - What makes it tricky at the moment are the very high prices which bring a lot of who had nothing to do with it before. I'm talking about mafia - [Narrator] As a result, there is little trust in politics Corruption is part of that controls the vanilla trade. After the work is done, to see if there is still The dramatic increase has many causes, the high but also storms destroy But Jurg Brand sees an - I think the vanilla price We've reached the high. The supply is getting bigger and bigger. The farmers are growing more and more. And the prices are so high, that the demand is also - [Narrator] Brand has done fair traded. He flies back to the where he lives with his family. (plane engine whirring) Madagascar, the land of vanilla. For many it means enormous wealth, for others, misery. The social divide in Fair trade can counteract this. This may be worth a thought when enjoying the next vanilla ice cream. (dramatic orchestral music)