Is winning without items even possible? I which does not help. So, if I started in maybe not need the items. But here, this Okay, we're in first place. No one else knows for the double item box. This does nothing for me. Ah, so no trailing the items, no throwing a boo or shock sealed- This feels so bad. 'Why is this Baby Luigi holding a green shell and the reason is because Baby Luigi has to win Still gonna try and drive well uh and there's try to be in first place. I'm lucky of people don't know how to do the Yeah, I got trailed, that's bad. I need to get thing I can't avoid, or like blue shells, might try to stay out of first place, but I don't be because I need to build the biggest lead I can They're gonna toss their greens back right didn't toss it back, okay. Well, um, it's still Banana! Oh okay. How can I- I need game. I can't believe I can actually do this! watching out for getting back here. No, is there Or a shock, at least? No, no, I actually got look on the bright side here. I mean, I feel me and with no one knowing how to take the Dragon here? I have boost panels and a glider at the end by items. But again, I just have to front run back besides having it be easier to dodge items, at the end anyway. All right, so I can't. I... I like a punishment for what happens if I do use I guess I'll see about it Like, a coin seems pointless, but like, this would I would be at three coins instead of one. Oh, I All right, I'm still in third place though, and behind me a lot of the time. Actually, there sometimes I make decisions with my own items when Oh, why am I even going in here? Stay on the I stay on- like, yes! Okay, well, I managed That is huge! I'm in second place again. [Music] on, come on. I'm actually doing so well. Nooo! red shell, it would have gotten stolen anyway. So compared to if I was allowed to use items. All right, these results actually pretty good. Okay, I might get third. There's nothing I can do, there's no decision making to be made. Okay [laughs] I got third place. Wow, these I chose this build for the maximum mini turbo Mario. Baby Luigi has the same stats as Baby that's actually pretty pointless because the than the speed stat does. So, of course, I'm the only stat I really need is acceleration, and I can't defend against it or use mushrooms Wow, no one got the bridge? That's crazy. Okay, to the right. I keep using different combos that cloud is very difficult when your handling Okay, let's do this. I couldn't get the This is crazy, no one's getting cloud but I'm Okay, I just got out of the way, thinking but they didn't throw it backwards, so that's good Nooo I'm right in front of a red shell. I'm just my only strategy is to hope. That's all Thank you dad, for the boost. All right, Boo stole my item for- for once, This is about more of what I expected, to just get terrible results. Are we Wow, I was about to get second place because I can't believe- I all hope is lost in my place has to be possible. We have a relatively I just tried to go for an item box, that was I got bumped. I didn't want to end my drift perfect otherwise I'm not gonna win,' so I just ultimately bad decision. The race doesn't have luck involved I don't have to execute perfectly have happened. I was hoping the red shell would if that's possible. [Music] Oh no, this is bad. possible. I give up. Okay, I just need to keep Hopefully everyone else messes up. Hopefully but it's a little too late in the race to be again. These mushrooms are actually a bad item to That was so close! I knew there's a green shell coming based on the previous green shell thrown through the air blocked a red shell that Didn't get last, let's go. Okay, Mario Circuit my chances here. But I'm pretty decent at this I get a lot of mini turbos. So Yep, the plant bit the other person so we're All right, wow, I'm in a top position again and What a- what a breath of fresh air. And okay, that was just a green shell snipe. I only have a certain amount of red shells that shells is not a good sign for this race. I'm gonna Oooh the fire. Okay, I'm lucky to not have I don't have to worry about it. I'm so worried I'm just always feel so vulnerable I can't even uh it's gonna hold Oh, this person's gonna trail me from in front in front of the person with the- wait, they must because that was a banana spin out. Ah, nooo, Like what was I supposed to do? Go wide? Go wide available to me. I take the best line or I lose, signed up for. This race was actually going really too many people threw their item without All right, what are we getting here? Ninth. I, I Highway was one of the options so I decided oh Highway and if I get hit it's fine because there combo on Cloudtop Cruise and there are boost it was an educated uh, strategy I didn't just take I was trying to get, but this is still bad, this is not gonna help me here. Oh, and I got a is when I need everything to go perfectly, so I'm I'm gonna need shocks at good timings, I'm gonna needs to red shell each other but not me, and uh, Okay, so like this entire section is bad for me, My hitbox is so big I couldn't get the boost we got last. [laughs] So I changed rooms and Roller is better than Azure roller in my before because I thought it matched the combo learned in this video, it's that items are Okay, so uh, gonna have to try and get into first side though, I can always take good lines because Look at that. Stop bumping me, that was shroomless shortcut. I didn't even know that I just wasn't sure if it was faster. All right, um, I guess I'll hope for a blue shell, because drift, brake drift, they're not gonna slow down, This is still not good, still terrible, the worst for shroomless shortcut, I can't risk anything Okay, I have a sizable lead, people might I didn't look in the beginning to see if anyone's Just no one throw anything at me please. Normally I have no protection because I've never had this is all I know, yes!! I would with no items on you should be embarrassed. I can finally sleep. Um, I'm gonna do this one with items just to that I was playing against there. So, uh, if it's not that items are important, everyone knows items as it turns out. Like, I spent about half that goes to show that if you struggle, part of it for a lot of the time because I didn't have items. many driving mistakes, maybe you're not taking the like that. [Music] So, oh, I told you I can use game-changing. This game would be so different if a room or like a tournament in the tournament mode no items skill only, which is so funny because Because I don't play skill actually makes when I've done a video full of bagging, where like because I'm just focusing on using items to panel and since I'm small I'm not gonna have just gonna go up there for an item. Nice, got Even if they don't squish me, I do not want this combo. Please go for them. They we're in they took the blue shell for me. Oh no, they but they don't know I have a bomb. Okay, now which way they go. I'm following you, got him. what? No, no, they dodged it, someone else shell protection now this feels- out of the they're in first now. Okay, well, I mean, They didn't hit me, do they stuff, they they're gonna suddenly change direction, [Music] Oh there's a blue shell again. No, I'm better than these players [laughs] I win without items on a baggy track and I could