&gt;&gt; Okay, so we have Kirk Sorensen who founded proponent of using thorium to cure the words--world's for several years and now he's at University &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: As a student. teaching courses there and is working--is Brown Engineering. And he's here at Google with nuclear energy. And he's got--done elementary waste or the nuclear resource of spent reactor simulations about what's in waste, how it some value to be collected there. Kirk Sorensen. everybody, I hope I earned that. My name's from Teledyne Brown Engineering in Huntsville, energy as possibilities for the future. We've of years and also with the U.S. Space Program so I have been spending a number of weeks what the heck is a--what the heck is in spent called. So we'll start out about what the takes place. So you have a heavy nuclei, uranium it splits into two fission products, so one's also several additional neutrons come off what's really significant about this is a as much energy as, like, 13,000 barrels of that at the notes, this is why we care. This a very, very energy dense way to go about about nuclear energy, a lot of times they a real problem? And you now, what's involved?&quot; Why do we have waste? Well, the reason why is because the fissile material has a particular This is why this stuff's been around for billions close to being stable, it's not as radioactive, and take this stuff that's at such and such to 1.56 and you split it in half, all of a that neutron-proton balance, but it's all neutron-proton ratios of about 1.25 to 1.46, neutrons. They inherit too many neutrons from they will go ahead and they will change this. process, radioactive decay, specifically beta care of this imbalance of neutron and protons. and it will do it by--there's a simple way but as you could essentially think about them, bust it into a proton and an electron and happy. The beta particle, which is an electron, stays put. Now if you recall, the electron on the other hand, weighs about the same amount changes the chemical composition of a material product is born, it pretty much stays at whatever But what it will do is it'll undergo changes what it--which element it is. It'll go from to think what the next thing on the periodic beta decay changes one element into another I wanted about was, well, okay, what do we we fission a bunch of fissile material and see? And you kind of see this double hump a--on a normal plot and then here it is again hump distribution. And where this comes from piece and you'd think that fission would split whatever reason again, beyond me, this is it on the periodic table, a bunch of people in the periodic table.&quot; And so I got curious it really do that? Well, it turns out, no on periodic table but it's a finite number. created through fission and at different amounts. in fission, what was being made. So I wrote kind of want to show you guys and I'll probably going to about--I'm going to shoot for going questions, because Chris told me yesterday after 10 minutes. So I figured 20 where I'm our luck beyond that. Okay. So, took a typical and I took my computer code and I burned it. is, in nuclear terms, this was a 39,000 megawatt on the high end of what you'd normally get fuel. You know, this is taking advantage of you essentially drop all this stuff in the Now let me talk just really quickly about This is a word that actually has a rigorous of disintegrations per second, so how many you have two samples and each of them are disintegrations a second, a thousand decays. okay? Now what else is really interesting called a decay constant, they have different of mass you have are interchangeable concepts. of activity, you know exactly how many grams know what the sample is, but those two numbers of iodine 131 and I have one curie of iodine I go, &quot;Wow!&quot; both of these have the same level out that that sample of iodine 131 is like is probably like the size of my car or something very, very different amounts of materials. how fast or thick--how radioactive is something, Another rule of thumb is to remember that--and if you have a nuclide and it's radioactive, words, there's no fraction of it that's not is. All of it is radioactive and it will all else. It will never become--you'll never have decay into something else. So that kind of something, it's going to go away over time. they are, the faster they decay and the more are the ones that have the shortest half-lives, The longer the half-life, the less active Okay, so we show up at our reactor in this after shutting it down. And what I'm going of decay of this nuclear material. So we're going to watch it. We're just going to imagine going to see through--we're going to see roughly era is going to be we're going to have lots and then we're going to go through a period activity, and then we're going to drop to finally, all the fission products are basically on to an era where it's just dominated by Okay, so I'm going to try to start running follow this. The circle size is dictated by this is a--this is a megacuries per metric from one day and this is a log scale on the to follow it and the first thing we see is, 239. What's that? Well, that's uranium that's future fuel. Neptunium 239 always has a two-day So by about a month into things, we've already era and our radioactivity have fallen by about then, we start moving into this era where and they're so many; it's kind of hard to running the simulation more and more, and and smaller. Now we're going out to about set of stuff to look at. One of the things which is not an isotope we normally think of plutonium. We see promethium, praseodymium, turn out to be related. Cesium decays into guys because they're going to turn out to right here, strontium and neutrium, that's but you can see they're not really the big so let's take it forward a little further 10 years. Okay, so now we've dropped to less now and we can see that as a fraction of our lot larger. Now, really, you can see strontium barium are another big chunk. So I'll take out to about 20 years. Now, 20 years is a fuel that's 20 years old, that's been sitting this is essentially from a radio--from a radioactivity right, so first order, you can say it's really got strontium and neutrium, and you can ignore So it's got strontium 90, its got cesium 137, it's one, two and then the third thing you've the americium and the plutonium. And you can scenario. So then let's take it out even further hit play and let it go for a minute. Okay, now we're taking it out to about 100 years. 30-year half-life so at 100 years, we've gone down to about 1-100th the rate--no, I'm sorry And let's keep following it further and further decaying away to--by about 300 years, they're why 300 years? Well, a good rule of thumb got a 30-year half-life on strontium and cesium, So by the time we get to three or four hundred problem essentially is entirely the stuff is pretty much gone and it's the stuff that out through a couple of thousand years and without a--without a terribly big difference. stop it real quick at 10,000 years. And the Mountain Waste Repository was intended for a 10,000-year isolation. So what do you got basically. So the reason I think that's something can burn it up in reactors and we can make is a good way to kind of loose track of it radioisotopes will burn away. Okay, so and and further in the future and you essentially that's radioactivity, and let me go kind of to think about is decay heat, and that's when you release a certain amount of heat. And of heat; some release a lot more than others. you can go and you can switch everything to you can look at how things change. And one broad changes but not super different. So, that comes from the decay of radionuclides; danger, you know. People are scared of radiation nuclear fuel that it could harm me?&quot; Well, alpha, beta and gamma decay. And of those part of decay. That's really what you have for is gamma decay, because gamma's particles stop it with a bunch of concrete; this is activity times decay heat times the fraction gammas and I found something that really, simulation here and show you what I found gamma power, and I'll take it out about 15 me so much is that from about five to fifteen coming off from two radio nuclides; one of 137m. Barium 137m comes from cesium 137, so, extracted only one thing, one element, cesium. taking this out,&quot; you would remove most of And that was a big surprise to me because or anywhere else. I don't--maybe I made a can certainly go and see if I made a calculational could address spent nuclear fuel in a very and potentially reduce the risks substantially nuclear fuel, and that is cesium. So, kind you that and I want to jump back and talk nuclear fuel. We have a variety of things. that were radioactive. But most of the things radioactive because they're stabilizing very categories here of things in spent nuclear looking at. One of them is high-value, rapidly of these that are--that are really of interest gas and we use it--at NASA, we use it in ion and you can use it in energy-efficient windows. that comes out of fission and also, it's the in just a few months. So you could go and and it is completely non-radioactive and it amount of mass. This is not--this is not, super cheap either. So this would be kind you could economically recover from spent at all after a few months; it is completely $1,200 per kilogram, and so, a metric ton xenon in it. The next most common fission say a number of you have already--this morning if you know what I'm talking about. Okay. your ears today, you've had neodymium in your because in the '80s, we discovered how to So this is the number two thing that comes about it is it stabilizes really quickly too. longest-lived radionuclide only has an 11-day stuff is not radioactive at all. So, I think out of spent nuclear fuel have potential economic of stuff you might be able to get, and these products that have--that take about 10 to Ruthenium, rhodium and palladium; all of these higher valuations than neodymium or xenon. and rhodium's worth $90,000 a kilogram and valuable materials. They're--some are just is also very valuable, although we do have in palladium. But it's got a half-life of radioactivity levels are exceptionally low. that and use palladium. I mean, it's a very pose any radiological risks, so even the palladium Okay. Now ironically, some of the most valuable be reprocessed quickly, are the things that very long. One of them is molybdenum-99 and to create technetium-99 which people ingest very close to an X-ray, so people are able talking to an elderly crowd a couple of months drunk tech-99m.&quot; And I would say about half said, &quot;Yeah, I've drunk it,&quot; you know. So, all the time. Another one is iodine-131 which the thyroid. In fact, it represents probably release from an accident; but it's also used long; it has an 8-day half-life. So if you quickly. So, if we could reprocess spent nuclear some of these materials. Then, there's also cesium which have enough radioactivity to know, I'm thinking like a NASA guy, we could deep-space probes. We could also use cesium-134, about? We could use that to irradiate food is a process that does not induce radiation but what it will do is it will destroy some heal a group of people who are killed by E.coli several thousand people die each year from with widespread use of food irradiation. So, may be valuable. And then, there's also the I'm running out of time so I'm going to jump all add up? And what I did is a benchmark will charge you a dollar per megawatt hour make from nuclear power.&quot; So if you got a you're paying a dollar and a tax, and they to use it to build Yucca Mountain. Well, Yucca sitting in this fund. So I got curious, I the fission products to pay back that dollar I kind of racked and stacked these different per kilogram. I took how many kilograms we I hit it with a value coefficient because And so then I extracted a value. And these these have rather high valuations. The number sure if I should use a value coefficient to 107. Rhodium was also very high, ruthenium. than money?&quot; Those are the three that rise it as a percentage of the nuclear waste fee. where it would potentially payback the money So, if you went and summed all the fission got to about, you know, maybe a third of the looked at saying, &quot;Okay, I was going to recover nuclear fuel, that got you to about a quarter in my mind was the plutonium. If you could I just assessed, you know, assuming the plutonium electricity was going to be sold at such and I make? And you could see that of all the was the one that had the best chance of making a reactor for electricity. So, what I took waste? Well, I would say no. I don't think useful things in it. And I think, in a culture it behooves us to look carefully at these. in there now in the way we do nuclear now fee? It does not appear that there is enough of value, about maybe 40% of your--of your fuel and you go burn it, there is a substantial all this would seem to be, let's go and take the stuff that's going to last for a long the electricity from it. So, I hope that's Yes, sir. question about the--not the price but the a--there's a presumption that these values like for example, to put a neodymium iron that it doesn't have any trace radioactive &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Yes. That seems a logical desire. nitric acid is just the beginning, then there have to occur. Have you looked at the cost forms that they can be safely used? and it's definitely one that underpins the I don't know, it's beyond the scope of this you're saying. And in order to go and extract or six uranics and transuranics, you're looking steps. So if you had a perfect separation, processes in it. That's probably too many. going to make sense.&quot; So the next layer is that may be worth recovering?&quot; And that's one of all to get out and the one you have is xenon. Because it will come out of the krypton; and those two can be distilled cryogenically So, xenon, to answer that part of question, not a (inaudible) chemist and I don't pretend that. But neodymium would most likely be compounded on Wikipedia, you find out that those two actually also stabilizes very quickly, so if you had some residual praseodymium, it's for you. But, you know, all of them, nth of a--this is a valuation at which to go and Okay. If I have a processing scheme that costs doing this? Maybe not. If I have a processing no, maybe a whole different story. So, I think to the next layer of analysis, which is to &gt;&gt; And it's very unlikely that you're going was a technique for extracting pure plutonium this. You'd probably use some kind of electroseparation get a lot of these things out in high purity &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Yeah. But that nitric acid is the basis of the PUREX and the other aqueous we use today has sort of dubious economics. it's very dubious, so. Any other questions? &gt;&gt; So, your chart showed the radioactivity 50 years or something. &gt;&gt; It was four or five orders of magnitude energy in plutonium is different from the &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Yes, yes. Yes. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: The embodied energy in the plutonium I mean you didn't even see uranium 235 on of uranium 235 in the fuel but its radioactivity years it still doesn't even show up on our &gt;&gt; Did you do any pie charts that show the reprocessing the fuel to use as a nuclear &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: I didn't do that because I was I knew they have no--they have no additional the decay heat which is a chart--that was decay heat if you are pulling out like strontium much cesium but more strontium 90, that may decay heat purposes. And there is a, you know, get especially if you needed a long-lived we look at for space probes. It could be a most of the energy that's in the plutonium the activity. masses of the, I guess, the two main things, as nuclear fuel again? have put--I think will help understand this. and you start out with fuel that is essentially it's about 3% enriched, it's all uranium, And this shows the process as that fuel burns then gives you a snapshot. So that bar on the beginning of the simulation that I showed 235 burning up and you see those fission products generated from uranium 238 and then some of fission as well and it's creating also some xenon, zirconium, neodymium, molybdenum; you is by mass, this is not by radioactivity. is back at about natural levels of concentration 239, 242, 241, the so-called transunranic. this kind of reactor going, but you could consume that plutonium and I really think up that plutonium. And some, you know, my it up and make U233 and run thorium reactors long period of time is kind of just dumb on a long-lived radioactivity. Its radioactivity thing too is it has economic value. You know, Dan, go ahead. why we haven't pursued reprocessing in this is obviously the security-related issues extracting aspects of that might be useful for you to time and I think looking ahead, the economics future of nuclear power in this country is of new reactors. All the projections for the factor in the stumbling block that existed pull fuel out of this doesn't seem, from an and then, of course, there are the environmental as you know well, produces a lot of waste and have caused a number of issues that we've weapons side of that. those too? Let me make sure I got this right. &gt;&gt; Number one there are proliferation issues. of reprocessing. Number two was the cost of &gt;&gt; Cost of the reactor. the cost of reactors. Okay. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Yes, good point, good point. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Okay. to be addressed. when you say reprocessing, you're talking acid, aqueous base reprocessing? because... &gt;&gt; ...traditional has been what--it is what do use. we've used. When I say reprocessing up here, I'm talking about a process where we just you asked to the next level go, &quot;Okay, how are the costs involved?&quot; As Chris has mentioned, through reprocessing because the first thing stream like an aqueous based reprocessing do is they let you handle very, very radioactive salts are impervious to radiation damage; to be very careful with your solvents like not having too much radioactivity in the fuel. talk about proliferation. In plutonium, it's nuclear process now makes plutonium and for plutonium and we say, &quot;Okay, we're leaving Well, one of my real surprises here was to what, there's one thing in the spent--in the that's the cesium, so. As long as plutonium fuel, I don't really think that our approach any other approach, because nations around of what we do. So, I guess I just--I look get a basic fissile currency that is much place?&quot; And that's why I think we want to is stuff that is a whole lot more suited for The uranium-233 has a natural built-in barrier uranium-232. So I'm in favor of saying, you have now to the world where fission is based two things: we would get rid of the plutonium need for enrichment which are the two main you agree with that? you're going to be pulling plutonium out of &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Yes. concern from a proliferation standpoint. step that we have to take. If we leave in will decay away and you'll have--you'll have see it. If we don't do a plutonium separation this in the long run? &gt;&gt; KIRK SORENSEN: Address the existence of have this amount in our spent fuel now, and of it? To get rid of it, we need to take it &gt;&gt; The U.S.--the U.S. decision for decades side and you find an adequate place to put &gt;&gt; KIRK SORENSEN: Yes, and I just--I think because eventually, we'll reach a point where fission product protection around it, and got to get past that. I mean, just my opinion, a really important which you talked about, costs, they're really not significant. I had and you realize that fuel costs even today, not very much. It's--the calculation there we were going to make. So, if we recover this of money? No, not probably. The bigger deal How do we do that? Well, I got a few ideas, a system doesn't require 9-inch thick steel all that kind of stuff. And that's another ones. You go to a system that has a lot higher cost, because capital cost fundamentally are a nuclear future. And Dan is absolutely right, to be tackled. And that's why I think, in it happens it's--you know, I want to see us I don't think it's going to happen with our happen with nuclear technology in general And even better if we can use this spent nuclear future. If we can destroy these long-lived material that will help us get to that. The &gt;&gt; The environmental footprint. Okay. The environmental question--and that reprocessing steps. What they tend to do--and the waste stream and they're designed to extract primarily the PUREX processes. Everything stream and then it has to be vitrified. It's you go, &quot;You now, if it's not worth it to really not worth it to go inflate this waste to turn around and vitrify it in glass.&quot; And want to look at reprocessing scheme that does I think this--the salt base reprocessing schemes to through fluorination. But it's very different research and development. Okay, any other &gt;&gt; Just a question. So in the spent fuel, you're calculating the decay period and the--what that different whether the chemicals are in words, do they influence each other? to what you said. You said as they decay and assuming fission is over. So fission is done nothing else happens. And the answer to your whatsoever if they're separated from one another it lives in its own little world. It doesn't There's nothing you can do to affect radioactive G. Wells actually wrote a book 100 years ago based on the idea that you could change radioactive how to do that, and there's little prospect it's so fundamental to the properties of a them or have them together, everything will &gt;&gt; Going back to your simulations, have you waste products, like the starting stage and &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Well, the code that was used that's pretty much an industry standard code nuclear fuels. So essentially, all my java big stream of data that comes out of this much using the same code to get the data, picture. so they have compared to the actual waste &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Yes, they--Origin has been validated know, and essentially, what I showed you is code. &gt;&gt; SORENSEN: Any other questions? All right, had a great time. ?? ?? ??