If you have your Bible let's go with &quot;Now David was greatly distressed, for the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for this is what I want to focus on this morning. &quot;But David strengthened himself in the Lord his God. says before this story happened where his men is that David had a promise from God that he would young age and then his life started to actually quickly killed a Goliath and then he got a job and then Saul made him an armor bearer, and then got married actually to a Saul's daughter. I mean mean God is just, has favor in his life and then get persecuted, there's a conspiracy that was trying to kill him. And then he was running for people and they were not helping him. And his life backwards. And then the Scripture says, there's But David thought to himself, &quot;One of these days want you to notice what a great man of God said escape to the land of the Philistines.&quot; How can says now the best thing I can do with my life, you killed one of them? You're wanted there. do more to a person than the devil will do to that wears a person out. It's completely fine if third year, fourth year, sixth year, seventh the great man after God's heart, it wears you out, God. Deep discouragement can drive a man to do to enemy cannot get you hooked on addiction, on some his arsenal that usually works all the time, to &quot;And he will speak the words against the Most and shall wear out the saints of the Most High,&quot; for God to finally turn things around, and what to slay them but now to be there. And you will see what Saul could never make him do, only to return that Saul has ever done to him. David becomes stops chasing him. He submits to an uncircumcised for honor. During this period of his life it is sort of quit. No songs were written, no prophetic pressure. And the Scripture says, as a result and everything is destroyed and David is at in this room today who've been waiting for God to healing in your life, bring about change in your had a promise from God and you believed, you grabbed it and stomped your foot, marched around and maybe it wore you out, and you kind of decided love of many will grow cold. You're not dead, want to share something with you that I believe your zeal but you have a role to play in that. David's men had this brilliant strategy, to cut the leader for everything, and they're not always David does something that was so unique in the encouragement. I, I have directions to this verse get tired of waiting, because unlike a lot of things never in my life came fast. Even things instantly. It took me six months. It's like God faith, lack of my persistence. I don't know what of 16, I became a youth pastor and I had a vision It was like a voice from God that came in that the next 10 years nothing was happening. I mean could. I preached my heart out, I brought sermon I brought a goat on the stage, a motorcycle on We went on TV and literally I would go for six to youth group. It was a struggle. I fasted, I prayed Why is this not happening? And after a while it when what God promised is not happening? What do and you've been burning for God and you see other toward God and it seems like God just blesses The Bible says, &quot;David strengthened you to notice the Bible does not David strengthened himself in the Lord his God. and said, why? Nor did he come to God and say, discouraged, disappointed people do is they ask even if God gives you directions you can't hear strategy or solutions, why? Because even if He that are distraught, broken, disappointed, don't need a strategy. They need strength. They don't if you compare this story of David going through King Saul, the Bible says the Philistines came God what should I do? And God said nothing. And reconnecting to God and making sure everything is his desperation to get direction from God, goes to a mistake. When you are at the bottom you don't and when you get strength, you get a strategy. after he strengthen himself, the Bible says and said, boom, boom, boom. If you are discouraged, you will be tempted out of desperation to that's not how God works. And usually those and they're once again reminded, God abandoned me, just give up. I quit. I'm hurt. I'm disappointed. your life you don't need a strategy, you don't won't give it to you. You have to learn something strengthen yourself in the Lord your God. I'm center of the universe. You're not a little spark we have God that lives in us, the Holy Spirit weakest point. Did you know the this chapter, this last battle before David became a king. This was life right before he became a king. This was for somebody in this room. Sometimes your closest right when you're closest to your calling. something is about to shift, the devil will throw into that new season. He wants to wear you out life. Because after this chapter, the Bible says and then over the rest of the tribe seven and will try to throw in his best, why? So that he can Stress is a gap between the demands placed on us bad. It just simply means what you are facing out. I rebuke stress. I don't think we should strength. Stress is just a sign that the your strength. That's why my Bible says, those and He removes their stress. He says, He because if God removes the stress, For some of you, you don't have kids. It's your going to remove your spouse. If God removes your If God removes your stress, He has to take away carries responsibilities and life carries weight more than we can handle. I didn't say God allows when it comes to temptation. But when it comes handle. Even Paul tells us in one reference, he It was more than, it was beyond our ability to beyond our ability. But God will always allow us will never allow us more than He can handle, which my life, allowing me to handle what me and Him and I used to pray that prayer, Lord remove all that's going to happen, I have to quit living. The pressure, problems, trials or different kind I don't want to remove stress. I want to increase thrown your way. He renews our strength, He this is what happened to David. The Bible says God. And right after that you see him asking for that you see now these guys who were trying to have a purpose. Right after that we see David by his master, and he strengthens him. And right he gets the spoil back, he get his family back, after that he has enough to give it to the elders elected and gets appointed as the king of Judah, went back to this one point that I believe every this. How to strengthen yourself through the Lord Not even when God comes in and without your becomes buff by sitting on a couch. Nor do you build a gym in my house during covid. That gym is And I revoked my own membership there. And either and it's just there. The only thing and it's there. It does not, presence of the gym share with you for the remaining few moments that can do to strengthen ourselves in the Lord. Number Sing to the Lord. David says, and he was the this about God. He says, &quot;The LORD is my strength I'm not talking about one of them country songs about when you sing about the goodness of God. Now during that time. What we feel during that time hurting somebody, whining to God. But something you will begin to sing. What will happen during will shift. What will happen at that moment is wings like eagles when we renew our strength. you notice when the airplane goes up everything become smaller. It's that in your view things things become. What worship does is that worship is still there, even though the children are situation is still the same. But when you begin to to do it but because you make yourself do it. You And sometimes if you don't have strength to sing along. And if you cannot sing along, listen to until something in the room shifts, and you will realize, I just reached a tipping now I am above that, and I'm no longer a chicken my wings right above that, and things become right now if you believe there is power in your second thing I want you to write down is you can Scripture says in Corinthians 14:4, &quot;He who speaks himself up. I want you to notice, this is not you the Holy Spirit but when you speak in tongues you're pushing that bar, you're exercising, Many of us, our mouth is like a thermometer. It our life, but if you speak in tongues your mouth It changes the atmosphere in your life. It I don't feel like it. The Bible doesn't say, prays in another tongue builds himself in and Paul quotes this verse in the New Testament. tongue He will speak to these people, to whom He the weary to rest,&quot; and, &quot;This is the refreshing&quot;; speak in tongues God releases rest and strength Spirit is the river of God on the inside of you but what happens when we speak in tongues is we to the faucet in your house. Until you turn on Spirit's power and strength is in your spirit in turning on the faucet. The water, not coming begins to refresh you. First five minutes tongues. Maybe first seven minutes nothing will in about 12 minute mark something just breaks, And you're no longer a little cat you're like full of energy. You're full of visions. You're of tongues but because of the river that's flowing Number three. Not only we speak in tongues, number it says, &quot;Why are you cast down, O my soul? speaking to himself. Now he doesn't have like or multiple personality. This is a spirit speaking praise Him for the help of His countenance.&quot; You O my soul? Why are you disquieted inside &quot;Why are you cast down, O my soul? Why are you &quot;Bless the LORD, O my soul.&quot; I want you to notice He speaks to his soul. When you're worn out you are your thoughts. No, you are not your thoughts. You are a spirit that's connected to God and you enemy will confuse you and say no your mind thinks no. When you speak in tongues, when you sing your soul speaking to you. You can speak to your so disquieted within myself, O my soul? Trust ever abandoned you? He loves you. How do I know for you, your name is written in the book of life, lives inside of you. Speak to your soul. Now you other people because people might call a doctor speak to your soul. Do you have to do it? If your it. You read David and you see he's worshiping God why, because all of us experience exactly the same this soul? And then he's not just under subjection give you a little education. Hope in God. Trust soul is like a child. It needs to be trained. Your not have PhD in life. Your emotions are immature, A lot of times your thoughts cannot be trusted So what you got to do is instead of trusting your and make them captive to the obedience of Jesus let their thoughts capture them and captivate them why we sing to God, we worship Him, perspective other tongues, why? Because something happens. A our circumstances but my God everything inside is of describing our situation and saying how bad simply tell our soul about the faithfulness of our not from our emotions. Are you with me? Number somebody else. Find somebody who is in a worse is that important? Because the Bible says when before he recovered everything he lost, he found was. And the Bible says he gave him some food, he strengthened that gave him specific instructions Strengthen somebody else. Don't go into self-pity. serve because you're too burned out. Life is like Step out, go help somebody. When Abraham could like God just slapped it in his face by asking were barren. Abraham didn't have experience in you can't give what you don't have. Well explain, was barren. The first healing in the Bible was a his own wife cannot have kids. How could Job pray prayer? How could Joseph translate the dreams of been on hold? How could Jesus heal in the garden servant? How could Jesus lead another criminal not an excuse to stop serving. In fact it's the God's power to get activated and the miracle then self-pity, woe little me, I can't serve anymore. to stop eating, I'm going to stop caring and I'm going to die if you do that. Get out of that somebody to love and somebody to serve. I'm not you don't grieve. I'm not saying that, but listen, we build a bridge, we cry a river, build a bridge we serve. Find somebody to serve. Sometimes you down the street, you find somebody and you love to move through you, and not only you feel better, can do to strengthen ourselves practically, the I've read in a book and it's not some kind of today. The last thing is this is we subdue the soft, but the other word is speak to the devil or you speak to your soul, you strengthen somebody, There's one more thing that we have to do, and have to do it. If you notice that the weariness, It's more than just what you've been going to open your mouth and tell the devil to get lost. leave you. Jesus says get behind Me, Satan. Jesus you please take this bad devil away from Me? I'm devil the Scriptures. He spoke it. He didn't think have a dog that you want to get rid of, you don't You scared that thing. Why? You make a move, what they do is they will rather talk to God about Bible says, a faith of a mustard seed will speak that situation, and sometimes all you have to do you're helping other people and you're seeing that despair, is honestly just get mad enough and tell You don't have to have a fancy King James version devil, you're really annoying, and I'm sick and get out. Leave me, leave my mind, leave my my house right now. You open the door, you say, is messing with the furniture in your house, my furniture. I have the receipts, I bought If he's tormenting your children at night, tell that nightmare and you say, get out child for nine months! I gave birth to it! But Pastor Vlad, I hear voices. Okay, the devil voice. He needs to be walking around telling I come to this person, I always hear voices. the devil speak. We silence him by our praise, but speak the Word of God right in his face. Now never dare to do that. I just go come to God and me from the enemy? That is a good posture to be submit to God and resist the devil. You have to That's how we cast out demons. We don't cast out cast out demons by coming to God and say, Lord right now? The demon is manifesting. We really do and grace. Would You please, Son of David, extend and put it where ever that demon is supposed to That's not how demons leave. They never leave like speak to them. We don't have a conversation with confront them. When David strengthened himself most likely was singing to God. I don't know, I probably spoke to his soul. But you see the end in the physical realm, not in the spirit realm ask God to kill the Amalekites, he thanked he let them have it. He defeated them and that's from is sin, not Satan. The Bible never says to from us. He can't run if you're the one running. chapter 6 because of the warfare, principalities It says stand, stand, stand. Some of us, all we and let the devil know, I ain't going anywhere. leave, not me. I ain't leaving the church. I life. Devil, you're the one that's leaving How do we strengthen ourselves in God? We sing to soul, we strengthen others, and we subdue the that worn out season and it's been a long time. and things have become kind of really challenging just strengthen you, God will just fix all you're realizing like man, this I got a little bit I need to, I need to step in in some warfare. just raise your hand, just going to pray together. 60 seconds, I want to just worship God. Not your You are good and Your mercy endures forever. You. I praise You. I thank You that You wrote I worship You Lord. You're highly exalted Lord. my Healer, You're my Deliverer. You're the Rescuer the Lord is my hiding place. I hide under the worship you Lord. I worship you Lord. I don't have You, God. You my strength and You are my source. moments I want you to open up your mouth and just with the gift of tongues, if you have the gift of now. Come on, come on. You can do that. You don't says, he who speaks in a tongue speak in that release that living water right now. We thank Jesus. Nothing is impossible to You. Holy it's not by power, it's by You. It's by Your power yoke. Holy Spirit. It's Your finger that drives that destroys sickness and disease in our life. Lord. We worship You, Lord. We worship You, Jesus. Lord. If you're in this room right now, just one eyes for just a second. If you're in this room and not spoken in tongues before, or perhaps you're in we just shared about. You've been, this whole going through that very, very difficult season or you're in one of these two categories, I want going to pray for you. Just say hey, I would like this message is exactly that's what I've been I have about a few minutes right now and we're just a basic instruction, we're going to pray for then we're just going to pray that the Lord's The Lord's going to meet you at the point of okay. Those of you in the front, I want you to a second. Don't pray yet, just look at me for just gift of tongues. I'll give you just the basic river of God is already inside of us. The Holy this is not God giving it to us from heaven. It's He talked about river from your belly. He didn't like water connected to the faucet in your house. you're just trying to get the water out of the When we're going to pray right now we're going and after that, you open up your mouth and you that come with it, trust God to add meaning to young daughter how to pray so he taught her the her room and he hears her saying A, B, C, D, E, F, her door and he hears her saying A, B, C, D again. comes to his daughter, he says, hey honey. I goes, our Father who's in heaven. Why are you God the whole alphabet and I trust Him to arrange tongues is? The sounds that come from your spirit, It's there, by faith. If you think that I'm just to come and attack me. That's how witchcraft He doesn't force us. We have an act to play, this. I'm going to lead you in just a simple fill you with His Spirit. Say this with me. Say, with the Holy Spirit and with fire. Fill me with that water, that living water out of my mouth. Ghost right now. Receive the power of the Holy that sound that comes in, let it come out, in the 30 seconds just praying in the Holy Ghost. Father, for with the Holy Ghost right now, in the mighty in the mighty name of Jesus Christ, in the mighty mighty name. Lord, let the rivers of refreshing come right now in Jesus mighty name, in Jesus [Speaking in tongues] In the mighty name of Jesus Christ. [Speaking in tongues] Rivers of refreshing are being released right now released from the Holy Ghost. Rivers that will not [Speaking in Tongues] ln God's strength, there is there is solution. In God's [Speaking in Tongues] Holy Ghost. [Speaking in Tongues] Holy Spirit we ask You that Your fresh wind, Holy Spirit I ask You that divine strength will I rebuke every distress, I rebuke every demonic Jesus Christ. I speak the water of the Holy Ghost. begin to penetrate every fiber of our being in that we will walk in strength, that we will we will meet the responsibilities that are name of Jesus Christ. Thank You, Lord. Thank You, from the top of our head to the soles of our feet, Breathe in that presence of God in your life. With into your life, with that strength will come a with that strength will come a strategy, with strength will come a strategy, with that strength in Jesus mighty name, in Jesus name. Can put your room I'm going to make a final call and you don't you're visiting today this church for the first a friend invited you or you watched the YouTube believe in spirituality and you just believe a Catholic or a good person. I want to let you without being born again. We have to become born a new person and God does that when you place not enough. Demons believe in God, they're still I'm Catholic. The Bible doesn't say unless you're in Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Oh, my daddy He only has children. Right there where you are at Christ is the only Savior and give your life to get you saved. It's kind of like ending up in the the airplane. I missed a lot of airplanes being in in church. Our desire today is that you get into that person, you say Pastor Vlad this is me. I and I walked away from Christ and today's first where you are standing, Jesus sees your heart. If come back to Him, just slip your hand up and I'm saying this is me. I need to give my life to the lift that hand high. Doesn't matter how young haven't done. Keep your hand up, pray this prayer pray with them. Say, Lord Jesus Christ, I believe for all of my sin. I repent of my sin, wash are the Son of God who died, was buried and save me and make me new. And from this day forward in Jesus name, amen. Right now we're going to for the first time or you just rededicated in a long time being at church, please listen orphans. If a child is born in a that's a sign that a child is not healthy. A child to Jesus needs a local church. They need to have follow somebody online, you got to be connected connect to this church. If you're connect yourself there. Connect to some kind program. Start serving, why? Because