(eerie music) (suspenseful music) - Monday. (foreboding music) The peak is shrouded in fog. It's the aftermath of one of the most violent storms A search helicopter scouring the region for a who set out the day prior and haven't been seen or heard from since. This hunt has been ongoing for hours, sunlight dwindling as search yet find no trace of anyone around. But as nightfall takes its grip, enveloping the area in complete blackness, suddenly something (thunder crashes) Just south of Mount Asahi-dake, a crudely constructed, from a clearing. It's undeniable that the and it's a damn good thing they did, because with conditions like these, finding them otherwise would've (helicopters chopping) The team swarms the that these hikers just They search, and search, and search until, finally, (tense music) they find them. (helicopters chopping) About a mile north, the They are completely disoriented, but most prominently are that the rescuers found them. As they're pulled up into the aircraft, the search team reassures them before commending them on &quot;We couldn't have found you &quot;You guys did a really great The men pause for a &quot;I'm sorry. We didn't build a sign. We have no idea what (foreboding music) (air whooshing) (screen whooshes) (mysterious music) You know, I'll admit, the It's a landscape adorned trails with serene views, and giving the area an almost It's no wonder that it's one of the most as no matter what time of year you go, you're bound to have an (mysterious music) From the summit of Mount Asahi-dake, it was 2.6 miles directly south (air whooshes) Resting in a relatively flat wetland, it was constructed with 19 each measuring at around 16 feet long. (mysterious music) Interestingly, the deviation down here is considerably longer than the main hiking making its existence entirely perplexing. As far as it's known, there are no trails implying that whoever built it had to have made their a detour littered with steep and even the turbulent Chubetsu River. At this point, it's completely unknown and for Japanese police, it was undeniable that a mystery was Someone is still out there, (tense music) (wind whooshing) (eerie music) One day later, a second team for any signs of hikers in distress, this time with emphasis on And while they all held out hope of finding someone still alive, unfortunately, just a few they'd uncover quite the contrary. (eerie music) Hidden near the SOS sign covered in bite marks (tense music) a backpack containing various items: (bright music) a Sony Walkman, four cassette tapes, toothpaste, a bar of soap, and a towel. At first glance, it's and the human bones are connected. However, a curious question How did this person with to build an SOS sign out of 19 to die in nature? For the rescue team, nothing further was discovered that day. For what it's worth, though, this seemed like a pretty Locals have claimed that the weather on this with thunderstorms rolling Perhaps this person got turned around, mistakenly made their way down here, and spent their final days (thunder rumbles) The site at the SOS sign and But all things considered, seemed relatively straightforward. Someone passed away here and built an SOS sign before it happened. The only question really was who was it, and how (wind whooshing) (eerie music) (foreboding music) Two days pass, and examiners from the notify Hokkaido police that the human bones belong to a female. (bright music) Reportedly, she was about was somewhere between 20 and 40 years old at the time of her death, carried bone fractures and died within the span of Aside from this, there was no further about her, and effectively, (interference buzzes) (foreboding music) (foreboding music) (bright music) (foreboding music) Something is wrong. (foreboding music) This doesn't make any sense at all. (foreboding music) Upon calculating the by utilizing numerous I found that 16 foot segments between 150 and 400 pounds Multiply this by the 19 segments and we have a whopping total range of 2,850 and 7,600 pounds of total weight making up this sign. So with this information, that a 5'3&quot; female with and strength to not only with tools that were never found, but also had the stamina between one and three tons of Let's not forget either after taking a treacherous down the south side of the mountain, undoubtedly causing from the elements. Without help, constructing this sign alone is an extraordinary feat, a feat that doesn't add So was this person actually alone, or was there perhaps someone else that died there with her? (suspenseful music) (machine clicks) (static crackling) (cheerful jaunty music) All right, guys, before we I'd like to tell you about All right, so it seems I read about yet another data breach. I mean, just last month, millions of social security in a massive hack. Your information is potentially out there, exposed to hackers who could buy a car. They could be you, approving purchases that It goes without saying that the implications which is exactly why I use Incogni. Incogni's a service that actively safeguards your information through an intuitive dashboard that shows you how many data and if you've been affected After signing up and giving their team gets at it, for any traces of your info online while demanding its removal Go to incogni.com/nexpo and use code NEXPO for an Once again, that's incogni.com/nexpo or click the link below to take your personal data off the market. Thank you so much to Incogni Now let's get back to it. (suspenseful music) (foreboding music) It's late at HQ, and investigators are scouring for clues. Of everything they uncovered, the cassette tapes seem to on uncovering the identity of this woman. And so they put them in their tape player and begin to listen. As they play, they're taken from various anime TV shows. However, once they make something strange gives them pause. (foreboding music) (static hissing) (machine whirring) (upbeat jaunty music) (vocalist singing in Japanese) (music stops) (SOS voice shouting in Japanese) (machine clicks) - [Nexpo] Despite the bones being female, the voice on this recording, belongs to a man. And the translation? (bright music) &quot;SOS, help me. I'm stuck on the cliff. SOS, help me. I'm at the location where The sasa is deep, and I can't climb up. Please, pick me up here.&quot; Interesting. (mysterious music) (foreboding music) Aside from the blatant I can't help but find it strange that this man uses not that he's with someone. I don't know about you, but if I were stranded I'd plead for someone to help us because we are the ones stuck here. In this recording, though, it sounds as if he's completely alone, unaware that a female is almost like, to him, this female doesn't exist. The woman who the bones belong to and the man who the voice belongs to almost exist in a vacuum, remnants of two people discovered completely unaware of The only thing tying them together, an SOS sign nearly impossible and whispers of an agonizing death. A site of demise that we are years too (mysterious music) (wind whooshing) (foreboding music) (wind whooshing) (mysterious music) Fascinated by this case, a Japanese reporter named to the site of the SOS sign in search of any clues the While uncovering anything new surprisingly, after they (object scrapes and thuds) they actually uncovered something. Just 165 feet north of the SOS sign, and hidden under foliage, was a large hole containing (bright music) two cameras, a notebook, and most, prominently, (bright music) a license. This ID belonged to a someone from Konan City in Southern Japan, over 800 miles south. (foreboding music) This discovery was massive this was bound to be their guy. I mean, this had to have been the voice on the recording, right? And of course, this man in some capacity with the female bones While she may be, up to this at the very least, those investigating this Kenji Iwamura. (machine clicks) (machine whirring) (foreboding music) (machine clicks) (machine whirring) It's the middle of summer, and 24-year-old Kenji Iwamura for a short hiking trip. He arrives at a small mountain lodge at the base of the summit, and only plans to be Later on, he informs the hotel owner that he's embarking on a hike, that would hit the area that night. Hesitant, the owner agrees, and so Kenji sets off from the hotel lobby and embarks into the great unknown. (mysterious music) (screen whooshes) (clock ticking) As time ticks by, the sky darkens, the hotel owner becoming and with no way to contact him to confirm how he's faring Hours pass without a word from him. The storm comes and goes. The clock approaches. (bell clangs) Days pass without a word from him. Weeks come and go. Kenji Iwamura never turned up. (eerie music) He was never seen again. (eerie music) With the discovery of Kenji's ID, police were certain that Reportedly, determining isn't always accurate, and for all they knew, From here, they tracked down believing that this was the they needed to close this case. Their confidence was at an all-time high, catalyzed by his parents later claiming that he was an avid fan of anime and that the backpack they And so, at last, the police certain that they'd recognize And as fate would have (suspenseful music) they didn't recognize this voice at all. They have no idea who this person is. (foreboding music) With no evidence of foul play, Hokkaido police bizarrely that this sign was built by Kenji Iwamura. They cast aside the the lack of identification with the voice, and simply ran with it. It took just 11 days for And to this day, the mystery surrounding the SOS sign has been cast into the void yet completely bewildering to By 1990, the bones were reexamined, and the consensus underwent Reportedly, they never belonged to a woman with Type O blood, but rather a man with Type A. (screen whooshes) (eerie music) Why the hell were the bones Who was the man recorded on Kenji's tapes? How were these massive by just one person? And how were these trees Taking a broader look at the landscape, we've established that the site by a diversion from the As we've seen, though, So how have they all made So as it turns out, there is an incredibly confusing It's a boulder called Safe Rock, and it's typically used by climbers to orient themselves on their trek, as once you encounter it, you're required to take a right turn to continue your journey to the peak. Bizarrely, however, there sits another identically shaped boulder called Fake Safe Rock. Unlike the former, using this to the much more dangerous terrain littered with steep filled with a specific type of In recent years, Fake with a rope to signal that However, to this day, for the actual Safe Rock, to an already disorienting situation. I'm sure you're finding this convoluted as I'm explaining it to you. Now imagine if you were faced with this dilemma while exhausted in the wild and completely alone. (foreboding music) To this day, it's believed and Kenji Iwamura made this mistake, leaving them both to be stranded So with this in mind, let's go forth and entertain the idea that Kenji Iwamura was the Let's just say that everything belongs to and was done by no one but him. So it went a little something (machine clicks) (machine whirring) like this. (mysterious music) Kenji Iwamura begins and makes his way up the Asahi-dake trail. Because of the impending storm, it's possible that there were He makes his journey all the way up before the sky darkens He encounters the Fake Safe Rock, confusing it for the real one, and makes a right turn, leading him south. As the day bleeds by, he begins to panic, the sky darkening as his psyche He recognizes not a single and it becomes rapidly clear to him that he's venturing (mysterious music) Completely turned around he continues, following even though it's only heading down. Is he heading back to camp? Are there any towns in this direction? Where exactly is he going? As hours pass, he becomes more panicked, and begins screaming for He falls off a cliff on the and so, in immense distress, pulls out his Sony Walkman and later plays it on repeat to save himself from damaging his voice. As he continues to limp downward, he encounters and crosses before eventually landing the flat wetland where and where the two would inevitably remain. (eerie music) (screen whooshes) (rain pattering) You know, on the surface, However, when you begin to this story rapidly falls apart. As we know, the only cliffs in the and if these are what Kenji's assuming it's him, then with broken bones and Even if we give him the and say that he had building a sign of this scale for just one person. It's been said that something to construct for someone healthy. So how in the world did Kenji do this while critically injured? There was no ax ever found. And why would he have one On top of this, the condition that he would've been incredibly frail by the time he passed away. There is no way this man leading me to believe that Kenji Iwamura, perhaps, wasn't the only one to die there. Consider this. (mysterious music) Kenji is on the hike, and encounters someone else out there. The two are both on their and so they pair up and As the fog rolls in, the two begin to undergo making their turn at Fake Safe Rock and getting lost down Injured, one of them makes a recording while the other pleads to keep going. And so they continue downward, cross the river, and where Kenji lies in agony. It's possible that this other hiker, for some, reason had an axe, made this sign with incredibly Kenji knows he can't And so, in a final fit of desperation, (zipper buzzes) the other hiker grabs and takes off to find them help. (mysterious music) In a way, this could explain This could explain why the voice on the and this potentially could explain how this sign was even The human body can go and perhaps this unknown in a final push for rescue. At the end of it all, though, and instead would die a slow death, surrounded by darkness, by wilderness, and in a forest, completely abandoned. (mysterious music) (rain pattering) (object scrapes and clacks) (rain pattering) Perhaps their body is still out there, but we just haven't found it yet. It's a tragic end to someone but goddamn it, it's the only way this Kenji Iwamura had to have on the mountain that night. There is just no way in (rain pattering) (thunder rumbles) (foreboding music) I refuse to believe that on Mount Asahi-dake that night. The circumstances are for one to pull this off alone. The broken bones, the the rapid closure, someone after vital injuries. Everything about this conflicts with the reality of the These theories, as are the only way this makes And even then, I'm still assuming that an entire and assuming that this other person died and was never found No matter which way we approach this, nothing makes sense to things that may or And to me, that's what makes this incident The man on the recording never stated that he was with someone. And even if we assume the only way this story it's almost like the two of them never even knew the other existed. It's like two people just on completely different timelines. (mysterious music) It goes without saying that about what took place on Mount Asahi-dake and how the SOS sign, given the evidence we currently But out of everything, the one detail that is the simple fact that, the police have never as belonging to Kenji, and this is after they were reclassified to belonging to a male, after the story spread and after the mystery and all of its bizarre into one of the most captivating (suspenseful music) (rain pattering) There has never been an official answer as to who the bones belong to. And to this day, nobody knows and who in the world built it. (rain pattering) (mysterious music) (mysterious music continues) (mysterious music continues) (mysterious music continues) (mysterious music continues) (mysterious music fades)