- Imagine being able to pick up any book, read it, and remember This kind of superpower like fiction, but there are that seem to carry an incredible ability to hold on to information and I'm definitely not one of them. I've read hundreds of books, but my ability to recall So I decided to finally to learn about how the smartest people in the world remember information and to uncover their systems This video is brought I'll talk more about If I were to show you a non-fiction book that you've read over the past year, whether it was for school, work, or your own personal development, how likely are you to be able to remember five facts from the book? How well could you explain All right, let me give &quot;Steal Like An Artist&quot; being by other people and you It's really a book about- (lip trills) I just read this book so this What else was it? What else was in this book? Great ideas are really simple and clear. I think that's all I got. I can't even remember one of the 48 laws. I just read it, I just read There's not much of a point particularly books about if you're not actually going to absorb and implement the insights, but remembering everything for the average person. After some research, I to remember things varies Some have terrible memories, and even others have As you might have guessed, body, messy, and often unreliable. It's easier for us to a deviation from our Like getting hit in the face with a ball, that interesting thing you not so much, but my question I knew exactly who I needed to speak with. I read online that you've read over 3,000 books is that true? - I don't know, I think it's you know, like with the romantic partners. - I don't know about you, but that number, well, it wouldn't take Ryan Holiday is the of great books like &quot;The and &quot;Ego Is the Enemy&quot; and of what I read in these books, I do remember them being really good. Ryan, thanks so much for being here. - [Matt] One of the things when I first interviewed was his memory recall. He pulled quotes and stories effortlessly from the books that he's - Eisenhower, he had this line, he said, &quot;William James talked about this. I have a quote in the Buddha and Marcus Aurelius - I seriously needed to know his secret. So I jumped on a video call to the bottom of it. One of the main reasons why because I have this problem and then I completely Like I can look at that book and be like, &quot;I don't remember one or How can we get better at and putting into practice what we read? - First off, I'd be a Having one or two things if those are important things you know, you paid $11 for that you only got two life So like I think sometimes people are like, &quot;I don't have perfect recall of the book,&quot; I mean, the book was supposed and leave you with something. I started in publishing I work for this amazing and he showed me a way of reading that I practice to this day which is basically, as I read a book, I fold pages as I'm reading and I'm highlighting the and then what I do as a writer of this information is I that I really liked or and I put them on note cards that I had that it inspired and then I sort those note cards by theme. So I'm kind of creating that organizes the stuff - So I decided to put and try it out for myself and than &quot;Courage Is Calling,&quot; that's Ryan's latest book by the way. All right, so I've got my my post-it bookmarks here, and, of course, my book, So when you really break there are three main parts. First, take notes while you read, second, revisit and revise your notes when you're finished with the book, and third, categorize and file your notes. The reason why this kind at helping us retain more to how our brains process information. Over time, we've developed to help us determine what in our explicit memory. That's the type of long with recollection of facts and events. Thanks to what's known as we tend to prioritize information recently used, or likely to So becoming a better learner the work, reading, taking notes, studying, and making use of the information In other words, having and while Ryan said that he he thinks that there's an - I do tend to find that &quot;Oh, I listen to a lot of I read a lot of eBooks,&quot; They're like, &quot;I do my highlights, but they just go I think there is something from the screen, sitting with the world in front of you. (gentle music) - All right, so I have &quot;Courage Is Calling&quot; and I have taken extensive notes throughout. So I am a slow reader in thorough notes throughout the entire book, definitely slow me down even but the idea is that hopefully, this will make these a little bit more sticky. Now, I need to go through this entire book and take all of my notes, that I've taken and put them So this video is sponsored by my friends over at Squarespace. I've been using Squarespace for one main reason, they to bring my ideas to life, Let's say that you've where you teach people how You start off by going to squarespace.com to grab your new domain name, Next, you browse through dozens of beautifully designed that feels the most like you With a few clicks, you to your homepage, you can and outline your core business offerings. You could even start doing online coaching and earn money through your You could call them Memory Mentorships. You know, that's actually let me write that down. With Squarespace, you with detailed analytics, It's never been easier to build a website to share your special gift with the world. Visit squarespace.com and when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com/mattdavella your first purchase of When you support Squarespace in the description down below this video, you're also supporting my channel So now, that I've gotten into this note taking that this is a very slow If you're anything like me, this can make you feel a bit antsy, but what I continue to remind about becoming superhuman It's about taking the time think critically about it, and and repurpose what I'm learning to actually enjoy the process. - Reading is a pleasurable and so you would never &quot;Dude, I have the fastest sex you would not believe it,&quot; right? Or like, &quot;You should see how at this fancy restaurant.&quot; I'm having a conversation or Marcus Aurelius or these are like the best people I wanna enjoy that like I'm - So I have finished taking and quotes from this book about 20 to 30 note cards in the process where I need to go through and organize all this. One thing that I've realized that you don't remember which means I need to all of these notes into and themes. It's probably too early to tell whether this system will improve I have a feeling I'm still gonna be on the goldfish end of the memory scale, but I've learned something over the past few weeks You actually can't remember you just need to store Oh, and if you're wondering whether I'll keep this up myself, maybe, but I don't know if it'll I don't know how many boxes at my place and still keep my sanity. How many boxes of note cards do you have? - Well, at least one for every single book that I've written, but I'm four, five, six, I have My system is an amalgamation and yours can be your own spin on mine. - [Matt] Whether you decide like Ryan's or go digital, the important thing is - You're better off starting imperfectly than being paralyzed by the hope or the delusion of perfection. My system has evolved over the years, it will continue to evolve. Maybe there's some version in the future where it does become digital, but right now, this is what works for me and the main thing is and I'm getting better as I go. - Thanks so much for watching this video, if you liked it, don't and especially that so you get future videos from me that way you don't have to to watch my videos later. By the way, my exploration into memory and learning is only just beginning. Stay tuned in a couple weeks for new video about how to build a second brain by taking all the information we consume and putting it into an - It's the complete ecosystem of apps that you use to manage information. - [Matt] Thanks for watching