For the past few weeks, every night when It's Simon Hoiberg leaning in Ok, Simon. Looks like people on Youtube Specifically, they want to know what kind of MicroSaaS they should build Let's give the people what the people want. Here are five Micro SaaS ideas that have the You'll see a bias towards B2B in my list, simply It's more black and white. With B2B, you're convincing customers to spend money to make money. It's a With B2C, you're offering to improve quality You have to think of people's feelings and shit. I'm a developer. I don't do feelings. Idea One: An ACTUAL Infographic Automator The idea: An app that allows you display and converts them into beautiful Infographics are used by businesses for a variety to backlink opportunities and We use them everywhere. Social media posts, as supplemental some even print them out for real-life displays. The problem is that infographics are one of the most time and resource-consuming There are 'infographic makers', but none of Canva's Magic Write can pull but generic stats don't make good infographics. And even then, it's not free - if you need to subscribe to Canva Pro. I would love a web app that can take data it's displaying, then suggest Timelines Lists - that's a big one Flowcharts It gives all these options, and I pick one. Then it inserts the stats into the infographic, customizing certain visual elements That would be a free service offered to anyone, For the paid tier, I should obviously be able I should also be able to upload company assets and of course company colours, and the infographic It should get to the point where I'd look at it and think I'm happy A SaaS like this would be welcome by everyone from You integrate social media scheduling media marketer is going to throw money at you. I stand corrected, while we were brainstorming the what I'm suggesting. I went back into one of the Demo of &quot;Infographic Ninja&quot; - Outline Ninja The fact that the only thing out there as on in development is a good sign that Theirs is a bit limited in I tried it out and the product Now we know why the input was only produce one type of infographic for now. But hey, they've got some custom touches - look I wouldn't pay for this level of infographics. But the idea is solid - it Especially that watermark. Idea Two: Google Reviews + AI The idea: A plugin that combines Google reviews with an automatic translator The WordPress plugin store is massive and It feels I don't remember where I read it, but someone once said there's probably a plugin that My point is that the WordPress plugin market is But go onto the WordPress questions asking for plugin ideas all the time. There's a reason - traffic. In spite of all the Webflows WordPress is still the most popular CMS That's a LOT of developers and business And I was very surprised to find out There are multiple plugins There are multiple plugins for translations. But none that combine both. For people who have websites in multiple nationalities, they'd want their testimonials Right now, that means two plugins. If you reduced that to one, It may not seem like much, but considering The WordPress plugin game is a game of gaining But if you're a dude, you know how much The way these plugins work is their free The paid version lets you Yours would be the same, only you and, if you were smart, you'd incorporate one of that have a certain tone to them - some will others will want them more casual. I don't want to spend too much time elaborating Idea Three: VR-assisted The idea: A VR app that applies clothing wrists with careful attention to Continuing our plugin theme but Shopify, which is the platform Last I checked, there are over In particular, we're gonna look at how we which, combined, account for just The gap that I see: Comprehensive VR Try-on apps These are apps that allow you to onto live videos of users via their cameras. When you're buying something internationally, so this gives users a layer of confidence Or not. So right now, if I were to search for these only find VR-assisted try-ons for accessories I can't find something that does it for other Why wrists? Watches! You won't know unless you've gone through it, the right watch is matching the diameter of the Nobody wants a watch that And at the same time, it would be nice not to That's why sites like Watchbox and allow users to check how specific There's nothing exactly like which means you'd get a shot at a clear market. Anyone who plans to sell watches I also mentioned torsos, because, of course, people will want to check how shirts The closest I could find where you create an avatar and put your But it's not your body and it just stand in front of your camera and have an An app that offered either one of these the shopping experience, like nothing else Hey guys, I could talk app ideas all day Tell me about your micro saas ideas in the past the subscribe and like buttons, Alright, back to the video. Idea Four: Decision 'Tree' Wordpress Plugin The idea: A plugin that immediately questions and directed them to the most We go back to WordPress for this one. And this comes from a specific Here's the thing. I checked. There ARE decision trees. However, it does tell me something that this user, who seems to be a freelance web Or maybe they did, and weren't There are only two search results that Problem is that the most which means lots of potential Also, I can't help but wonder why neither an OpenAI model that can be trained to answer Have you heard of Cody? Cody - The AI Trained on Your Business It allows businesses to upload documents and AI serves as a 100-year-old librarian who knows Imagine a decision tree Now you don't need a flowchart of questions. Users can roughly say what they're automatically direct them to a page It would be FAR more efficient a more interactive and human-like Idea five: A pay-per-use Grammar Nazi Figma Plugin The idea: A pay-per-use Grammar Nazi Figma Plugin For our final idea - which, surprise, Figma needs no introduction. Here's a short introduction. Figma is an interface design platform - to create app frontends for both mobile and web. It has millions of users from all over the world, and only about 15% of them are from the US It's not 100% accurate, but how many people are using Private In fact, as you can see, the next I don't know if you've ever had the pleasure of playing Counter-Strike on I haven't but I hear it's a lot of fun. This brings me to one of the biggest pain in the asses developers have to Many of us are not native speakers, but a lot of the money is in countries So any UX copywriting and documentation should not just for clarity but to make a clients that think good English = good developer. I'm not saying they're right - not even close. But man, I just want to We could dedicate years to perfecting our As you can see, there's a But it's fine, nobody wants Remember, it's a game of gaining inches. You don't have to be groundbreaking. Just different. So I checked out SPELLL, which is by far and I went into the comment And I found it. And it was stinky. Absolutely stinky. It's actually not that bad, but quite Users asking for more on-demand grammar checking One user even said it made it And you'd think larger files are where There's also an interesting request from Harriet I'd actually not thought of that since but I can totally see how a bigger app overseas freelancers would absolutely 124k users just for this plugin, and grammar helpers. The demand is there. I think offering on-demand checking but go through the rest of the plugins to Your market is basically every And even them, to be honest. So as you can see, you won't be able to charge an arm and a leg for one user but try Simon, I hope you approve of my micro saas ideas. And to everyone else, hope you had fun listening. And now, allow me to shoot myself in the foot. I have to ask: in addition to have you been doing your own research into what It's good to get different opinions, but comes close to the validity of an idea Look back at your own professional and life experiences or look for Then scope out existing solution providers Then ask on forums like Reddit and Quora. If you're not sure how to start, I'd to come up with your own SaaS ideas that strategies to find not just profitable SaaS So that's it for this video. If you've got you'd like to pitch, please, please share it Otherwise, please subscribe and like the video and