Recently, I made a video about whether gravity comments - always an eye-opening experience - and This individual asked if the weak nuclear force It turns out that this is a common question, with should sit back, because I have a story to tell. (intro music) To determine whether something is a force, you While there are technical definitions, for this is something that either causes an object to move in place. There are several known fundamental forces. more subtle than you'd think, it is common to say gravity, electromagnetism, the strong It's a force, because if a cat misses a jump, it and brings us thousands of funny cat videos. Electromagnetism is also a which is part of electromagnetism, it's a force too. The strong nuclear force holds the nucleus a nucleus usually contains several protons, all In electromagnetism, when you have two charges another, which would blow the nucleus apart. a stronger force holding the nucleus together. So that's three of the four forces. However, nuclear force, we usually just say "and the weak radioactivity." And that's completely true, but causing things to definition we're using here. So that's the origin of that YouTube comment that nuclear force cause something to move? Well, to begin with, let's talk about how the Like all quantum forces, the weak force force particle that then flies off to there are actually two carrying particles. the electrically charged W boson. In the case of a weak nuclear force interaction, a Z boson. The Z boson then zooms over to another the weak nuclear force is transmitted. So now let's get down to brass tacks. When the If it's initially stationary, it will move in the It's not very different from when you're in a boat the boat moves. And when the other quark absorbs the Z boson, catching that sack tossed from a boat. So, if a Z boson is exchanged between two quarks, therefore the weak nuclear force definitely of a force. That's the basic answer. However, the weak nuclear interaction is much For one thing both the W and Z bosons are very times heavier than a proton. It turns out that the mass of the W and Z It's weak because weak force interactions are And, I should warn you, there's some quantum an example. If you look up the mass of W boson, times as heavy as a proton. But when you're talking about quantum particles, reality, every subatomic particle has a range of having a small one. In the case of the W boson, If you find a W boson, there's a good chance You can see here a curve which kind of it's likely the mass you find is there, where boson with that mass. However, the numbers I mentioned just gives the rapidly decreasing probability In the kinds of radioactivity that involves the mass of about 80 GeV. What's needed is a And, as we can see from the graph here, that's W bosons with that mass are crazy rare. So, this explains why the weak force is required mass are super rare. If a rare it isn't really all that weak - it has a similar I should probably tell you something that is force is the only one that can change a particle's it does so via the weak nuclear force. What when it does, it turns into a bottom quark. When W boson and becomes a charm quark. This identity changing behavior is usually the weak force. It's not that the weak all the forces do - it's that only the weak that's the thing that we mention. 'Cause- come The weak force can push particles around, so it's not really weak, so much as it's rare. And it's identity when it decays. When you get right down (phasing sound effect) Okay- that was an interesting topic. It's about various particle physics concepts. After we sometimes cut corners and don't always say dive into the nature of the weak force, please down there. And come back often to hear makes good sense to me because, as I think (outro music)