Summer, 1945. During the Europe Day victory celebration, in front of the Kremlin Palace the famous Russian army celebrated Just as it's done in the Roman Empire, Soldiers threw flags of the vanquished The man who beat Adolf Hitler, Generalissimo Joseph Stalin. After 20 years of power, the master of the USSR A poet wrote this: "Stalin, you are higher than "and only your thoughts "Your spirit Stalin, We call him the small father All over the world, he stands for hope of a fairer society. He is the idol of hundreds In France, we also sing his praises. With our whole hearts, for Stalin and we assure him Stalin! Stalin! Meanwhile, this man is one of He slaughtered his own people "We will annihilate without mercy "or even through thought, He put in place the Gulag and enslaved 18 million people. "You have to cut off "to preserve it of disease and infection." He cynically caused famines "Death solves all issues." "No people, no problems." He sacrificed his family to his own power. "A true Bolshevik We are going to tell you about of this son of a small craftsman, who became one of the most powerful We are going to tell you how this man, who said he brings joy to his people became, by dint of megalomania and fanaticism, one of the most deadliest dictators that mankind has known. The year 1924, is when it all started. We are in the vicinity of Moscow, in the middle of the Russian winter. Lenin, the father just died. It's one of the first movies He is carrying the chef's coffin Stalin is 46 years old. He is secretary-general a relatively erased post. Among his comrades, nobody can imagine that he will be They don't know that ten years from now, He will have almost all of them Among them, nobody knows yet To his comrades, One of them said, "Stalin is the most Another confirmed: "As soon as he will want to get For long now, Stalin has been His real name is Iosif Djugashvili. He was born in 1878, A monarchical regime based on inequality and submission to the monarchs. With a childhood spent in poverty, an alcoholic and abusive father, he grew up with Orthodox monks. Very early, he joined and took the name Stalin, the man of steel. In 1917, He participated in which overthrew the tsar, abolished privileges, and gave power to the people. In the shadow of Lenin, he was just waiting The death of Lenin was that opportunity. In 1924, he succeeded, to rule out the greatest character Trotsky, before exiling him to Kazakhstan. Nobody saw it coming, but just a few weeks later, He won't leave it anymore. He chose to settle here, in the Kremlin citadel, the former palace of the tsars. It's from there that The Union of Republics Soviet socialists, the largest country of the planet. With a few people for about 30 years. He wanted to go further, much further than Lenin. He wanted to rewrite history and his determination was absolute. "We Bolsheviks, we are a special breed." "The others have no value, "Do not doubt it, comrades." "To the working class, "all my strength and Stalin wanted a clean slate of the past. He abruptly wiped out that the revolution had spared. He passed a decree saying religion Across the country, he removed the old Orthodox icons, before destroying them. In place of the old order, he had a radical project which was to build communism. An ideal, a happy and healthy society. Without any rich nor poor. A world where everything is shared, where everyone has equal chances at birth, Where health and education For the Soviet Union, "Old Russia has always been defeated "Slowing down the pace "and the stragglers will be defeated." "We, in the Soviet Union," "we don't want to be defeated anymore! " He launched gigantic construction sites. Skyscrapers, subways, railways, dams, power plants. He wanted to modernize Russia For her to become a paradise for workers. A world where unemployment does not exist. and where each worker can offer A world where Stalin occupies We, the pioneers of the great country, party soldiers, always ready! We thank you Stalin for happiness that Stalin is the leader of the Communists. His portrait is everywhere. In factories, on trains, in every classroom, and even in the dining rooms. He must be perfect because He personally corrected with millions of copies sold. On the copies, he added "Add the sentence:" "Stalin is the greatest captain Actually, the real Stalin is more common. He is only 5'3 feet. He is putting on his wedge heel shoes. He often stands on a small wooden plate that makes him look taller. Look at this exceptional image. It's his real face. His skin is pocky because but strange enough, in public, he had pristine skin. The new master of the Kremlin He spends his time locked up in his office and he hides jealously his private life. Here are the only photos left She was a former wrestling comrade, He had two children with Nadejda, Vasili and Svetlana He devoted little time to them, but on his little girl, he demonstrated a real fascination. "I miss you, dad." "I don't care if "If dad asks me A few photos show us During summer vacation, When he takes his deputies Ekaterina Voroshilov, remembers that "Stalin loved nature expeditions." "He would drive us there and "We would light a fire," "grill meat while joking and singing." "It really was the good times." The problem is, for Stalin, from the early years, the bad news are piling up. His politics were disappointing. By multiplying major industrial projects, stalin sacrificed his daily life. The Russian population was growing, yet no housing facilities Families had to move in together in requisitioned apartments and occupied all the small spaces. The standard of living was deteriorating. As proof, these clandestinely shot footage are one of the rare proofs It's this rich English woman, who during a trip, recorded "Everywhere I see signs of malnutrition." "I was told that this man "was a former aristocrat." "And that this one was a famous teacher "Here is a little boy who was all alone" "and who asked me for help." "Store windows are almost empty." "Above all, the queues are endless." "In the queue, "unable to buy anything." In the USSR, the communist dream but in the Kremlin, For him, the system was faulty because He was looking for culprits Just like the financial desk,, Bryukhanov, that and who a collaborator drew At the margin, Stalin wrote; "For all his sins past and present," "hang Briukhanov from the testicles." "If they hold up," "consider it acquitted by the court." "If they give up, Stalin was only half joking. In 1930, He invented a method The political trial. The defendants were scientists, engineers, senior officials. They were all competent, but Stalin accused them Get up! Stalin himself is absent from the debates, but he appointed as judge Andrei Vyshinsky. He told him the sentences I declare the session of the Government of the Union For the trial to appear credible It was necessary that They were tortured for weeks How do I say this, I have already that my counterrevolutionary feelings had never really left me. I completely acknowledge this I acknowledge that... I deserve the worst punishment. For the prosecutor, The government convicts you and request that the defendants be shot. After several days of deliberations, the judge pronounced the verdict. He knew that Stalin hence a certain feeling. Kalininkov Ivan Andreyevich, according to articles 583, 584, 586 The Soviet Union gives you Beeing shot with the confiscation Their sentence will be commuted But the message is clear, Those who oppose Stalin as well as their loved ones too, Stalin is becoming brutal. His relationship with his eldest son He recently attempted to committ suicide. His father showed no compassion. "he couldn't even shoot on target." "I can't have something Stalin's relationship too His wife, Nadezhda, is fragile. She was constantly rebuked by her husband. During a dispute She got carried away. "You are an executioner." "That's what you are." "You're tormenting your own son, "It's impossible to live with you." After 14 years together, One winter evening, after another quarrel during Nadezhda returned to her room and commited suicide The truth will remain hidden for 60 years. Russians were told that Because, according to suicide is considered as treason. Even her friend "Nadezhda was wrong." "She left Stalin Stalin did not stay at the funeral, he was devastated. "Oh Nadezhda," "Nadezhda, when needed of you, "She abandoned me like an enemy." "She made me a cripple." "She ruined my life! " In the USSR, Nothing will bethe same again. Stalin was brutal, from now on he will be merciless. His first targets were peasants who and join the kolkhozes, these huge cooperatives where under party control. To harm them, Stalin sent police officers and requisition the crops. Their mission is to asphyxiate Tortures, r****, assassinations. Nothing could stop them. One of these policemen is Lev Kopelev. "I took part in these expeditions." "Probing the ground "I emptied the pantries, "the children's tears "Anything was allowed." "Destruction," "lies," "theft." "The end justified the means." "Our aim was 1933, the year of the result. Stalin's requisitions One of the richest regions in Europe, was already been ravaged under Lenin. But this time, the slaughter took The peasants no longer had A father wrote to his son in Moscow. "My dear son," "I am writing to you "She died of starvation "I don't have much time left myself." Some members of the party on site did not understand and even wanted by Stalin. They protested. "Is comrade Stalin," &quot;a member of the Politburo." &quot;Is he aware of "Otherwise, let me hint you." "A train full of corpses "After picking up bodies along the way." In Moscow, Stalin wanted to eliminate the Ukrainians He prohibited hungry peasants from leaving their villages In good conscience, he condemned to death five million people, half of whom were children. It's one of the greatest massacres At the same time, the French deputy Edouard Herriot invited by the Soviet government. I make ardent wishes for the prosperity of the Russian people and I hope that my trip will be useful for their happiness and The French man and the delegation visited Ukraine by train. He is pleased with the trip. "I crossed Ukraine." "I can assure you that "There are only Kolkhoz gardens, "While it is said that "Allow me to shrug my shoulders." How could the Frenchman In fact, the streets were cleaned The workers that he met were extras. We brought in food. Edouard Herriot was fooled by propaganda. In Moscow, Stalin's rule is full of lies. He gave a mission to journalists They don't have to describe the world The harvest is bad, We have radiant peasants Industrial results are disappointing, We publish victorious press releases We invent heroes like this famous miner, Alexei Stakhanov. During a competition, he broke down by extracting 14 times This story is completely false. It was made up by the party, but it helped abuse the Soviets. Truely, the USSR is no longer just Stalin's agents are everywhere. They control the whole company. They received a terrifying order. They won't just to arrest the suspects, but also deport them. Everywhere, thousands of men, women and children are grouped and taken A child remembers. "How long did the trip last? " "I have no idea." "In the wagon, seven people "When we are arrived in Tomsk," "they took us out "Children, youths" "and old people." They headed to the gulag, Soviet labor camps. They were real concentration camps, long before their appearance in Germany. These were all enemies of the revolution, at least from an officiall point of view. Actually, ordinary citizens, notable people, religious people but don't fit with They are mixed with common law prisoners. In the party, We calles that re-education through labor and we are proud of it. Here, the deviant spirits In fact, these prisoners In the camps of the Far North, the temperature sometimes A prisoner wrote: "It's dangerous to stop moving." "I can't stop kneading my toes "The act of touching a metal tool "may rip your skin off." Maria Iov can't take it anymore. She's a political prisoner. "Our team is composed of intellectuals," "but among these scarecrows, "harpists, scientists? " "We are in a constant state On August 2, 1933, an event showed the cruelty On that day, the Stalin Canal Two hundred kilometers of waterways that connect from With just pickaxes, Exceptionally, Stalin chose to move. He wanted to make the canal that would Theoretically, It was a technical feat. The construction deadline Truely, it's a new tragedy. Thirty thousand prisoners, or one They died in vain. It seems hard to believe, but to meet up with The channel was not dug quite deep. Most boats will never Abroad, we are far from imagining Most Western media repeat the lies Meanwhile the gulag Here's how the French news in Siberia. Once upon a time, the tsar revolutionaries Today, the Soviet government decided to give Large rabbit breeding under the watch Intoxicated by propaganda, every year, Communist delegations and especially from France, came to Moscow to greet the little father of the Peoples. Despite Stalin's crimes, prestigious rallies were fast multiplying, like that of the French writer who not only approves the gulag, but publicly sings its praises. "The proletariat will "rehabilitation of man by man." "We are at a moment "that looks like in the transition For the Bolshevik Party Hooray! Hip, hip, hip Hooray! How do you explain such dazzlement? At the 1935 Congress in Moscow, Maurice Thorez's speech, the leader explained that Stalin gave back Listen comrades, for a moment, didn't know how to respond in factories, didn't know how to defend themselves against such blames There was a time when, they did not have the means to respond. There was no longer harmony between Now they're proud, they're talking, They are known in factories, those are the ones who organized We are sure of victory because is in the firm hands of our dear and great Stalin. Blinded by his communist ideal, the Frenchman did not see, or did not want to realize that And that his only purpose was now Stalin decided to kill which was still shading him. Remember, Lenin's funeral in 1924. Most of those who carried Kamenev and Zinoviev, executed. Tomski, driven to suicide. Rikov, shot. Radek, murdered. Stalin finds pleasure "Choose your victim, "Relentlessly carry out your revenge "There is nothing sweeter than this In 1938, he attacked his dear Bukharin. He's been a friend for 15 years, but he dared contradict him several times. In his eyes, he became an enemy. To prepare for the fall It started the steamroller Propaganda. Across the country, these conspiracies were fiercely committed dogs of fascism none other than Comrades, what I have to tell you Our country is surrounded by enemies Who want to destroy Death to these enemies, During this time at Lubyanka, the headquarters of the secret police, Bukharin is being tortured. In a letter, he implores "I am writing you this letter, "My heart bleeds at the thought that "I am ready to drag myself on my knees and "If death awaits me," "I beg you, in the name of "not to allow me to get shot." "I would like to take poison." "I beg you." It is indeed death that awaits Bukharin. On March 2, 1938, In a room full of members his trial begun. It's mere formality. Our people want one thing. We need to crush these pests! Bukharin is in the defendants box, But there is nothing left, He was not considered docile enough He will be shot and his family deported. The purges are now expanding without distinction. Stalin saw enemies everywhere. He became totally paranoid. To those he suspects he encouraged whistleblowing. In each village, you had to be ready and even your own parents. A young boy denounced "As a pioneer, I have to tell you that." "My father acted in "And I'm asking you not as a son, "to be hard on Stalin had a henchman, Nikolai Yezhov, Nicknamed dwarf He was the boss of the secret police. "I might be short "These are Stalin's hands." "We are launching an attack "There will be innocent victims." "When you clear a forest, Stalin had set execution quotas. As proof, this terrible document. On the first line the name Here is Azerbaijan. followd by three columns of figures. One for executions, one for deportations and one last for the total. There are no names. It's up to party officials to fill up the quotas. A random file in the archives Name: Cilorov. Heritage: a wooden house a cow, four sheep, two pigs. Indictment: Cilorov is malicious against Soviet power. He said Stalin killed a lot of people, but we can't talk about it, otherwise Verdict: Shoot Cilorov and He's called the Great Terror. Since the year 1937, Yezhov gets shot an average of "Strike, exterminate without sorting." "It's better to go too far In the midst of terror, Yet, life continued At the Bolshoi Theater, they're playing It's Stalin's favorite ballet. He never missed a performance. Each evening after the concert, He returned to the Kremlin to sign the execution orders Sometimes he added feedback. "Tighten the screw on this gentleman, "The more the teeth are tightened The Terror finally turned against Yezhov is accused of treason, and even erased from official photos. In 1938, Stalin had eliminated be it real or imaginary. He gradually replaced them who owe him everything. They're the nomenklatura, the new people, and that whom he can count on. They split up the property and they took advantage On 17 March 1938, four days after the end Many families went to Moscow airfield. Be it activists, officials, They were all present which connected Russia to America The welcome of the pilot Tchkalov, Stalin decided to make him On that day, on the streets of Moscow, Chkalov proclaimed his love "I am ready to die for Stalin." "If we have to give him our lungs, "And if we have to give him our heart," "we will give him our heart." Stalin is far from imagining will soon threaten his regime. In Germany, the Nazi Party has been in power He advocates superiority As leader, Chancellor Adolf Hitler just like Stalin, He had already annexed Austria. He wanted to seize including France. But most of all he dreamt and to annex its territory for the benefit "The mission of the Nazi movement "Destroying Russia will give "a vital space the masters need to eat." "My ambition is to be the man Stalin finally realized the threat, but too late. THE USSR was not ready for a conflict. Its weapons were outdated. Its staff was decimated. During the Terror, he had shots fired members of the general Staff during this 1934 movie, There are only a few who don't understand just like the dashing Boudionny. "You won't change my mind." "As soon as the war breaks out, "Changet the cavalry! " To make up for the delay, In August 1939, he managed with Ribbentrop, the two giants sign Just a few days before triggering the World War. An unnatural agreement, which has a lot of ulterior motives, but which gives Stalin a break. "It's all just a game about "You'll see, Russia will succeed "for a while longer." A week later, September 1, 1939, The German Army attacked Poland. It's the start of the Second World War. In a few weeks, the Nazis crushed and won a resounding victory. The first out of many. Eight months later, in May 1940, Hitler attacked from the West and occupied France He enforced his law military occupation, racial persecutions and political repression. In the meantime, In favor of the pact signed with Hitler, He conquered new territories. In the winter of 1941, he still thinks but this time he is wrong. It's at that moment that Hitler decided Destroy the Soviet Union. It's the Barbarossa plan. One of the biggest military operations Hitler planned to overwhelm and to reach Moscow in just a few weeks. As early as spring, The German army sets ready On site, Soviet generals They sounded the alarm and asked for permissio But in the Kremlin, Stalin, just as paranoid as ever, dread a trap. He answers them. "You have a big head, but a small brain! " "Germany will never stand alone June 16 1941, a spy sent a message saying But Stalin persisted "He's a disinformer, June 21st, the eve of A German deserter passed the border and said that the attack Stalin's verdict was, "Shoot him." June 22, 1941, the invasion started. Three million German soldiers From the first hours, they destroyed The steamroller German entered the battle. A woman was trapped in a village. "Thousands of our soldiers "all scattered around." "Our leaders are leaving." "They are leaving us to die." Symbol of defeat, Stalin's eldest son, Yakov, was captured as a prisoner while At the back, Russia is in shock. In order to understand, the population Everyone is waiting for Stalin's reaction, but its not coming. Muscovites, like young Guena, "We're glued to the radio." "We are waiting for Stalin's speech." "We need to hear his voice." "But he is silent." "It's Molotov, his deputy, "Everyone is listening." "We are told that "But where is Stalin? " Stalin is entrenched It is annihilated. "All is lost." "Lenin founded our state "He left us a fantastic legacy" "and we ruined it." Because of his repeated mistakes, Stalin is personally responsible But he doesn't want to admit it. As usual, he is looking for culprits. These thousands of soldiers surrendering Their families will be deported. As far as deserters are concerned, he sent to the front special units responsible for watching soldiers and 'In case of panic "have them shot on the spot including In just a few weeks, Stalin jumped from In Ukraine, he prohibited his generals Five days later, nazis captured 500,000 soldiers. It was the biggest catch In October 1941, Four months after the start of Hitler almost won his bet. The German Army was a The capital is bombed every day. The population took refuge in the subway. Writer Viktor Kravchenko "Moscow gives you the feeling "Panic reigns" "and it enables "Some said that a coup had "and that Stalin was arrested." Actually, stalin also took refuge in the subway. Here it is, while all his followers urged him and take a decision Inspite of the danger, he decided to remain in Moscow. In a few hours, he will address his soldiers. November 7, eight in the morning. Regiments joined the Red Square following Stalin's call. The tanks came directly from The Germans could attack at any time. But Stalin's speech galvanized the troops. Male and female supporters, The whole world is watching us and is waiting for us to crush down the hordes of looters who died during the German invasion. Glory to our country, Onward to victory under Lenin's flag. In a few days, the Soviet army managed to stabilize It's only ten months later, in the summer of 1942, that of the greatest battles We are in Stalingrad. It was the turning point The Germans, who did not succeed wanted to conquer this crossing point They occupied 90% of the city. But they still had In front, the Soviets put up The Russian gunner "We heard the footsteps "I can't See them with the smoke." "We shoot following our instinct," "by ear." "My head is buzzing." A total of two million people For the first time Stalin, wisely, decided and to let his chief of staff General Zhukov do the work Zhukov had a battle plan. He wanted to trap the Germans November 19, 1942. at seven in the morning, 1,400 tanks, over 1,000 planes were rushing on the flanks These images taken show two Russian armies come together. A few weeks later, 300,000 German soldiers surrounded, poorly equipped and hungry surrendered with their leader, Marshal von Paulus. It's the first time that To Stalin, it is a miracle. In the eyes of the world, he is the first to defeat Adolf Hitler. And he will launch over the next two years the heroic counteroffensive Despite his crimes, despite his pact in 1939 with Hitler, stalin became unavoidable. In Moscow, during the visit then a few months later Allies all came meet the great Stalin. The Briton Churchill took a toast. "Is there anything more precious "to each and every one of us." "I sincerely hope "would be able to preserve Churchill knew that The USSR was becoming a superpower. He knew that after months The Red Army would soon enter Berlin. We are in the spring of 1945. These terrifying weapons, were bombing the German capital. Stalin decided to avenge Stalingrad In front of such firepower, Germany finished by capitulating Two months later, Generalissimo Stalin arrived in the German capital In this famous propaganda movie, We welcomed Hitler's conqueror like a messiah. In fact, it's fiction where the role This masterful arrival never happened. Stalin was scared of flying. and contrary to these images, Comrades, today, we are celebrating the big victory on fascist Germany. The real Stalin took in the suburbs of Berlin, where 5,000 police officers He was obsessed with the attacks. If he agreed to leave his country It's because the opportunity was worth it. He had appointments around with his American and British allies. Since the Yalta Conference, he asked for half of That is all the countries that his army Stalin's demand was accepted Soviet rule From Eastern Europe It will last nearly half a century. For the Russian people, The conflict has annihilated 70,000 In the summer of 1945, the soldiers and getting ready to be reunited A soldier said. "People are screaming," "they're running." "They're crying when the train arrives." "The men kiss their wives." "They hug the children "They proudly show their decorations After so much suffering, For them, the crimes of Stalin They are wrong. Stalin is at the peak of his power. It's been over 20 years that For victory, we prepared with thousands of extras. Even the American general However, Stalin seems to be absent. His health is fragile. He has memory lapses. He had several heart attacks. Above all, he is a single man. During the war, he lost his son Yakov, who was made prisoner of the Germans. It is said that Yakov sought to escape Stalin refused to exchange him as Hitler proposed. "If I had traded Yakov," "What would have said "whose children were made prisoners too? " "If I had done that," "I wouldn't have been called Stalin." His private life was a disaster. He no longer sees his second son, the aviator Vassili, and who keeps flying on his plane. More paranoid than ever, Stalin even got mad at Svetlana, who is now a young woman. He didn't understand He did not accept particularly the one who he sent to the gulag. He didn't accept either a Jewish, too. Over the years, Hitler's conqueror became antisemitic. "All the previous generation "And now they want youths to join." As soon as the war was over, depending on his mood and his craziness. With two million prisoners, the gulag had never been this full. In France, Communists who fought against still worship Stalin. In 1949, he celebrated his 70th birthday. Gifts were sent from everywhere so did tremolos, the man behind "In this small workshop from Belleville," "the workers spent 300 hours "a gift for Stalin." "Their gift was a minute tour." Despite the evidence, The horror of the Stalinist system We have not forgotten what we went through It is necessary to understand that Another man's son fell into The wife and the daughter Without the victory of Stalingrad, would have still been occupied Like all of France and Europe. Therefore, we all, peasants from Grigny, We wish a happy birthday and long life to Generalissimo Stalin We wish long life to a clear-sighted guide to Stalin, the man of peace. For his birthday, the man of peace the international communist elite especially the Chinese Mao Zedong but a little 12-year-old girl Her name was Natalia. She was Poskrebyshev's daughter, She was immensely honored Live close to us dear one, lead us through your lights, for the Soviet regime to flourish and get stronger every day. The room cheered this touching scene but the little girl wasn't aware A few years ago, stalin had her mother shot. At 70, the little Father of Peoples "What would you do without me? " "You are blind." "You are little cats." "You don't see the enemy." "The country will fall" "because you can't March 4, 1953. This time It is Stalin who just died. No details in the newspapers. We won't know until later. Stalin agonized alone without anyone to rescue him. Not even his doctors, who were terrified and as a result, getting shot. His body was displayed where he had convicted his friends Among party members, A teacher had a hard time "What will happen now? " "How are we going to live? " "What will happen to the country? " On Red Square, officials were reciting Our master and guide, the greatest genius of all mankind, has finished his glorious path. However, despite the mourning instructions away from the cameras, thousands of Stalin's victims At the Vorkuta camp, the deportees got down "May his soul go to hell." "Thank God," "Today, the man During his reign, the man who promised heaven on earth had caused the death of 20 million people.