One of the great mistakes of piano beginners don't give enough attention to piano techniques. not able to progress further in piano. In this piano techniques. You can use it as a checklist and which ones you think you can improve I'm actually going to play some musical examples useful. Technique Number 1 is &quot;PEDALLING&quot;. hugely from pedaling. One example of such a With a pedal it sounds like this... The right pedal on the piano the sounds of the chord which makes it sound using the pedal is basically to press down and Just to show you very briefly how the timing So play and as you change the chord, Change ... Change... Change. Change. Every time come up at the same time and immediately Technique number 2 is &quot;PIANO CHORDS'. Some may think it's really important for beginners to Without getting too deep into this, I think what a minor chord is. And then, from there you can move on to means a series of repeating chords. This is A minor. This is F You start to create some pretty decent music. their purpose in music is. Technique number piano technique is pretty much the same thing as So instead of playing. you would play something to string several rounds of that together it would I just did there 3 octaves of the of course, practice it with also your left hand. Or even hands together. I'll do 4 octaves for you. And, of course, you also want to Not just C major but eventually every possible So on and so forth. Composers a virtuosic effect. You may It's a piece that sounds pretty which is what I need to do, but if you look at the a bunch of so many random notes!&quot; What I want just a bunch of very simple arpeggios. So, we have shape: G sharp, C sharp, E and G sharp. Okay, number 3 was this one and it just repeats again When you take time to learn you can do some very virtuosic patterns When you can play arpeggios really technique. Technique number 4 is an interesting piano per se. Tech number 4is &quot;PRACTISING WITH all the time beginners make is not following in As you can hear from that playing there, it There are a couple ways you can mitigate this. with your smartphone. Click record and then the actual recording and see if there are music. Another way to mitigate this is, to practice with a metronome. For the past my traditional metronome anymore but I've I click a beat and it basically gives Just always helps me to check if I'm staying for a discount code of 20%. Technique Number 5 tension-inducing technique especially for smaller relaxed wrist and a relaxed arm. To start, you Octaves are found in all kinds That was Turkish March by are your &quot;MAJOR and your MINOR SCALES&quot;. Let's do And a minor scale sounds like this. the most famous one which is a Harmonic Minor. Let's just go back to Major Scales for a second. As piano players, eventually we actually want So in piano, there are 12 keys. Right, 1 - And it just repeats after that. 1 - 2 - So eventually over time, this might take a want to be able to play at least all the majors, every different key so for I've already showed As you could see there, D major actually D major scale but I didn't play the See? That sounds wrong but I play the black next to it. It sounds correct. Let's do another one on E major. That one has even more sharps. It has a total of 4 black notes. As a beginner, scales. starting at least from all the white are good not just for technique but also your if I had to learn a piece in E major I wouldn't learn it pretty quickly simply because I practice of E major which is to have four sharps in it - pretty deep topic to cover you know in just this time to study and knowing what the notes are in but not least, Technique Number 7 are &quot;CHROMATIC It basically means in whichever direction you're That was one octave of the C learn how to play with your right And also eventually to learn A really good exercise and technique for checklist of 7 different piano techniques. you do pretty well with and which ones you have I'm gonna go teach Milo some piano now. I'll