The Arctic is still a mystery Could there be A terra incognita. Reaching the North Pole Many expeditions set out, but none succeeded. Then, in 1926, it all changed. Explorers took to the air. The first person to reach the pole His airship took just 17 hours. In 1931, another adventurer He wants to reach the North Pole traveling under the ice. Hubert Wilkins, will write history and then be forgotten. Until now, when modern explorers They're determined to find out why so little is known and what happened to him Hubert Wilkins, was raised in the wilds His first job was as a kangaroo hunter. Outdoor life in this parched land teaches him about the sun, It also gives him a lifelong quest: to understand how weather He has other skills too, many of which are self-taught: pilot, photographer, However, his real passion is exploration, In 1928, Wilkins sets out the first transarctic flight. It's more than 3,200 kilometers from Alaska As he flies over the icy waste, he collects data that will help explain His goal is Spitsbergen. Twenty hours flying It's a worldwide sensation. This pioneering flight and a knighthood from King George V. From now on, he is Sir Hubert. New York gives him During the celebrations, a fellow Australian. She's a singer and actress A few weeks later, they get engaged. Suzanne soon realizes a true adventurer, for her husband is once again planning not by air, He rents a redundant for just $1 a year and equips it His scientific goal? Collecting data If we can demonstrate for traveling underneath the Arctic ice, I believe it may also prove useful and for the development along the Arctic coasts In 1929, newspaper mogul Randolph Hearst offers Sir Hubert aboard the airship Graf Zeppelin. During this flight, Wilkins thinks of an idea for his planned expedition: the submarine and the Zeppelin Hearst is thrilled and promises $250,000, provided the rendezvous actually happens. Wilkins' plan makes headlines worldwide. Walt Disney too is fired with enthusiasm. He sends Sir Hubert with best wishes Hubert Wilkins is on board his submarine Over 800 enthusiastic onlookers The guest of honor is Jean Jules Verne, The French national anthem is played. Prohibition forbids alcohol. Lady Wilkins must christen the boat &quot;Ship, I name you Nautilus.&quot; &quot;Go on your wonderful adventure.&quot; &quot;In your heart is great treasure.&quot; &quot;Bring that treasure safely back to me.&quot; She's called Nautilus in Jules Verne's Wilkins fixes a bronze plaque to the hull. On it is Captain Nemo's motto: &quot;Mobilis in mobili.&quot; Moving amidst movement. I find it remarkable by Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Seas, written by Jules Verne, It combined Wilkins' dreams with his ambition He's just like the heroes sharing their desire to collect data Sir Hubert borrows another idea He converts the submarine's torpedo room As air is pumped in the researchers' ears begin to ache. They try to equalize. When the air pressure inside is greater they open the hatch. For the first time ever, scientists have direct access Now they can take samples from the depths. Just like Captain Nemo, Sir Hubert wishes to explore His theory is that On his submarine expedition, plays a key role and determines our climate. He hopes his research During the fitting out, Wilkins relies but none of them has experience since no one The plan is to build so the boat can slide In case of collision with an iceberg, Wilkins also thinks He's afraid of being trapped so he designs a special ice borer They test it on land. The drill should bore a hole but it sticks. The designer has to help with a hammer. Despite this, Wilkins makes The clock is ticking, and he wants to start his expedition Another new feature Its job is to keep the submarine Nautilus is now a unique However, is it fit for Arctic exploration? Nobody knows yet. You will have to judge it from its time. Judging from that time, that was, in some way, high technology. You had never before and you had never had a ram with this purpose That was quite new. Nautilus undergoes her sea trials, Almost immediately, there's a problem. Nautilus, out of control, Captain Danenhower Can she withstand the water pressure? A major leak Fortunately, luck is on their side. A catastrophe has been avoided. However, Nautilus still needs repairs, and their departure Newspapers begin to criticize Wilkins The constraints of having to use were due to financial limitations. He could've achieved if he had plenty of funds so the criticism was somehow right. Wilkins defends his plan Under the North Pole. This documents his adventure in detail before he even sets out. Sir Hubert sees his book and as a testament for future generations. &quot;However, if we fail,&quot; &quot;I want to leave behind a record &quot;to help that someone who will someday&quot; &quot;make a transarctic journey Nautilus and her crew of 20 They're facing a voyage Time is short. In just two months, Even if all goes well, to reach the North Pole. Lady Wilkins waves a final farewell. Later, she will complain The first stage and then on to Norway, A week after setting out, She's tossed around like a toy, The engines fail, They tried to repair the engines in vain. Adrift in mid-Atlantic, It's just 19 years The crew is scared. Their elderly submarine is supposed but now they realize she's in poor shape. By luck, a warship, She hears the distress call For hours, they attempt Finally, as the storm dies down, An officer from the Wyoming offers Captain Danenhower They'll also supply Sir Hubert with welcome fresh vegetables, The crossing continues under tow. The crew is now divided. Some are determined to continue while others want to disembark After 23 days, Nautilus finally reaches Plymouth She must yet again be repaired. Once more, the team loses valuable time. Wilkins is worried before the Arctic winter sets in. The omens aren't good. Repairs in dry dock take over a month, and the expedition is still While the men kick their heels, Sir Hubert welcomes Edward, Prince of Wales. Five years later, Wilkins has known him and they both share a passion At last, the dock is flooded. Sir Hubert is impatient. Every hour counts as the shorter days The four-day voyage from England In Bergen, for the trip under the ice. New supplies More researchers join the crew. Bernhard Villinger from Freiburg, Germany, acknowledged as the leading Then a final check Our Chief Captain Tunc Nilsson, was kindly asked to do an inspection and share his findings as well as his thoughts When he came up again, he told Mr. Sverdrup that he'd never The whole of Bergen is wondering Wilkins receives a telegram asking him to cancel the expedition. He should try again next year but Sir Hubert is undeterred. They've reached Spitsbergen, still more than 1,000 kilometers For the first time, Inside the hull, it's freezing cold. Despite this, Wilkins and his researchers Harald Sverdrup's particular interest is to find out To do this, he uses a special pendulum. Gravity varies from place to place. The smaller the distance the greater the force of gravity Sure enough, close to the pole, the pendulum swings It's thanks to Nautilus's pioneering work that we know today These measurements They were the first ones taken at sea. We knew a lot about gravity on land, The nearer Wilkins the more unbearable The temperature is below freezing. Everyone must keep moving Inside Nautilus, The boat has no heating, All the crew can do is tough it out. There's almost no insulation in the hull. It's like living in a freezing cigar tube. It is no wonder that the men eventually began With all the problems that this submarine imagine suddenly of actually diving Imagine thinking Imagine thinking Where were you going to get the air from? Were the drills going to fail? Despite the appalling conditions, Wilkins and his team Day and night, They want to find out and use a plankton net to catch specimens. Everyone is amazed by the jellyfish, Wilkins writes in his diary: &quot;The jellyfish were the only things &quot;some of them looking Jules Verne's Captain Nemo They did valuable scientific work for the very first time importantly, showed that science operating in that icy wasteland However, science alone Randolph Hearst and his newspapers when Nautilus Sir Hubert writes in his private diary: &quot;Without exception,&quot; &quot;the others in the vessel &quot;To do so Wilkins gives the command A diver does a final inspection Everything is checked to reduce the risk If anything goes wrong, It's bad news. A vital part The two horizontal diving rudders have disappeared. Without them, Nautilus is unfit to dive. How could this have happened? Was the damage A submarine voyage and the consequences are unforeseeable. A rumor circulates among the crew that it is sabotage. Perhaps fearing the dive one of the engineers The men would do anything, They had had enough. The ice inside the submarine, they had to somehow end it. On 28 August 1931, the Nautilus reaches the edge They're still Despite the missing hydroplanes, Sir Hubert is determined to show the world and reach the North Pole. &quot;This is the first day since we discovered &quot;that we've had calm water,&quot; &quot;and I was determined The forward ballast tanks are flooded. Nautilus's bow sinks low in the water. Then Captain Danenhower and rams the submarine under the ice. Later, Wilkins wrote: &quot;The noise of the ice scraping along &quot;It sounded as though &quot;was being demolished.&quot; At last, the historic moment, Sir Hubert and his crew the first people ever to do this. They discover that it's much lighter However, the risky dive From now on, Nautilus is cut off The radio operator tries to contact but it's no use. Even sending an SOS is impossible. It was actually a very good point which was, if you are going don't have any means of communication, because if you don't communicate, Back in the US, rumors fly. &quot;The submarine has disappeared.&quot; &quot;The crew is dead.&quot; The Washington Post is first to print. Now Wilkins has another problem. He needs proof that Nautilus Once more, he gives the order to dive. This time, he and his cameraman to provide firm evidence. Again and again, but only submerges a few meters. Eventually, Sir Hubert but he's afraid won't be enough to get his expedition However, he and his crew a great pleasure after almost four weeks To find Nautilus's exact position, just as Captain Nemo did for his Nautilus. Fortunately, there are no clouds. If they can't see the sun, they can't calculate Meanwhile, Sir Hubert It works, and they send Soon they receive a reply the expedition's backer in New York. &quot;Dear Sir Hubert,&quot; &quot;I'm exceedingly happy &quot;but I feel continued concern &quot;and your crew.&quot; &quot;I most urgently beg you The message also tells them with a zeppelin and Hearst is stopping For Wilkins, this is a bitter blow. He's invested around $100,000, almost all his personal fortune, Now he could face bankruptcy. Sir Hubert and Harald Sverdrup, decide there's only one way to concentrate on the science. Using a device called a Nansen bottle, deep below the surface A weight is dropped down the line. Far below, it hits the Nansen bottle and turns it upside down, Now no water can get in or out. Nautilus made a very important discovery, that there's a branch of the Gulf Stream The salinity and temperature readings since the Gulf Stream and fairly obviously, It's the Gulf Stream that is responsible It's why the rhododendron, can flourish in Norway's mountains. Wilkins' measurements deep in the Arctic Ocean. This is chilled seawater which flows from the warm south part of the worldwide system We now know that the polar regions, are key to understanding what drives Wilkins' Nautilus expedition gives us data and includes readings This information is priceless. After three weeks surrounded by ice, Nautilus sets course for Norway. However, the sea between the edge is notorious for bad weather. Once again, and once again, Finally, on 20 September, The crowd can hardly believe However, another engine failure means the elderly submarine The US Navy, who still own the boat, give the order to sink her A fjord near Bergen The radio operator sends a final message. &quot;Goodbye, Nautilus, &quot;There will always be a warm spot &quot;for the first submarine Wilkins is already back in America, his dream of reaching The crew watched Nautilus Ever since Sir Hubert people have asked why. Was the steering gear damaged by ice It took the Second World War to make Wilkins' dream Both sides set up extensive networks a milestone for meteorology. During the 1950s, an important one for Wilkins' dream. The United States builds the world's first It's a giant, 100 meters long and over 3,000 tons, five times larger than Wilkins' boat. Mamie Eisenhower, America's First Lady, again named Nautilus. Prohibition is long over, so this time it's champagne, The launch marks a major advance At last, It's now possible The nuclear power plant Air conditioning, and much more room. It's nothing like the old Nautilus. Then the Soviet Union launches The Americans have lost To divert public attention Nautilus is sent on a top secret mission, Few people are told her route. Following Sir Hubert's example, and makes the first ever dive more than 3,000 kilometers Shortly after this, she beats the target of 20,000 leagues On her return to New York, but Sir Hubert is not among the guests. His pioneering journey is long forgotten. Although he failed it was his expedition that proved under the polar ice cap. For almost 80 years, his Nautilus has been lying undisturbed just a few kilometers from Bergen. Now scientists in a modern submersible are determined to find out had to be aborted. Can they find evidence of sabotage? Over the years, He's now acknowledged as one of the greatest and his submarine expedition of scientific history. Nautilus ought to be declared This two-man submersible It's powered by electric motors. In an emergency, The water is murky. Light fades quickly Two parallel laser beams allow the crew The eagle has landed. After 30 minutes, the submarine On the surface, Three hundred forty-six meters. Okay. The submersible uses its sonar Then at 340 meters, It's the Nautilus. [Dutch spoken audio] Okay, Jurgen, fantastic. Felicitations! These skids allowed Nautilus A hatch. It is Sir Hubert's door Now the hull is a paradise for shrimp. An anglerfish guards his territory. The flag on his strangely shaped fin On the bow is the shock absorber, Many years ago, at the launching party, with his wife, Suzanne, Nautilus's name is now red algae, and other marine creatures. The big ice drill is well preserved. In an emergency, it would've been used This thin ice drill allowed the crew to regulate Now crustaceans graze on it. The wooden deck rotted away long ago. So far, the researchers They're particularly keen which is where the hydroplanes were Was Nautilus's steering gear Is the sabotage theory true? The scientists can't reach the rudder. The stern is buried deep in the sediment. Their submersible can go no further, so, like Sir Hubert, A salvage vessel equipped with an ROV, a remotely operated vehicle called Argus, Fortunately, the team of the Nautilus. This allows them to work out The ROV operator is Halvor Mohn. Argus starts its dive. Command send down this umbilical cable A special suction pump around the Nautilus's stern. Once it's clear, the scientists can examine to which the hydroplanes They wait for evidence. Will it prove that the diving rudders A video camera sends images These show that several cubic meters This will take time. The researchers wait anxiously. Clouds of silt make it difficult to see. Argus's pumps are at full power but can't dig deep enough. Once more, Back in Bergen, they talk to the Norwegian Navy's It's very likely through very dense ice with small icebergs lying all the way along the supports, it might have been damaged and then the whole thing Whether it was sabotage or not, the essential thing is that Nautilus used to regulate dive depth, It would've been suicidal. Crew, scientists, Wilkins, but they all came back alive. That, in itself, is a great achievement. Sir Hubert himself never joined Even in old age, he still dreamed of making another In October 1958, he met James Calvert, Wilkins suggested in midwinter. Sadly, just six weeks Sir Hubert died, aged 70. Although Wilkins' expedition and was soon forgotten, it did make a major contribution and he was right. Submarines could reach the North Pole. Captain Calvert uses this historic moment &quot;On this day, we pay tribute &quot;He spent his life &quot;the attempt to broaden The captain has brought At last, Sir Hubert's dream comes true. He has reached the North Pole.