[mellow music plays] [Peter] So this is all [man] You can see Boston in some points, -Okay, so Gerald, We spoke on the phone and you told me Central Massachusetts Mm-hmm. I don't think most of us They might think of Boston for example but I've never thought of Central Mass. Most people don't. It's pretty crazy how the towns differ I mean you drive over town lines They need love put back into 'em but then Which is good. -You're an old soul, Gerald. -25 years old, right? You have the true accent. Maybe considered Actually my family's from Canada. So it might kind of... They spoke French when I was growing up. -You got some &quot;eh's&quot; in there? [Gerald] It's pretty crazy with all its different cultures. Everybody seems to get along pretty well with the conflict in the media and political conflict Which is kinda sad to see. There's families because one believes in one thing, Massachusetts was Now it's considered the first, for a while I think it was a lot of old money There was a lot of farms around here. -All right so even though -We're an hour away. Yeah, we're kind of in the mix We are in a pocket of rural area and obviously not everybody's There are some people and are doing well who are just struggling, trying to pay rent and cover groceries. -Are they living in Like don't interact with one another, They get along pretty well. There's not a lot of disagreement but there's definitely some stigmatation I mean if you tell somebody people will get a weird look in their eyes because they probably -We're going there today, right? My parents are middle class, Being out here but in the past 20 years a lot of have moved out here which did cause -Okay, how much for one of these houses? The average house in Massachusetts I mean this house is for sale right now Which is a lot of money -Yeah, one garage, not that big. What about a guy like you, 25 years old, Um... Honestly kinda worried A lot of the younger generation is getting born into a world If that makes sense. It's almost to buy a house or cover rent. My uncle a town over from here... but he pays $1,800 -It's pretty crazy. -This is my dad by the way. -How you doing? Not much, I'm blessed -Taking you for the tour? -Peter, nice to meet you. -Why aren't you doing the yard work? I do help out a lot. We have a wood stove We get five cords of wood, So there's always whether it's mowing the grass, My tomato plants are decrepit, -Dad, I'm just grabbing something. -Nice meeting you. -Your dad's how old? -Wow, he's in great shape, he's ripped. -So this is where you grew up? Born here, this is the only house -Which is pretty crazy. -And you got the old 300D Turbo Diesel. It was sitting in some guy's back yard It was his grandfather's and I kept He's like, Then finally last year he's like, I'm like, &quot;Of course, Got lucky, I woulda took that today The last sticker's from 2008 -Can I keep rolling the camera? -Tell me when you want me to shut off. -This is great. We got some jalapeno peppers We got some chickens in the back. We have a tree house but a really bad wind storm These are some of my friends over here. -Okay, so back in the day, what was the price of My parents, not to give an exact amount I'll just tell people it was $100,000 for When my parents moved in every wall -When did they move in? Okay so $100,000 then was like 250 now. -But now this would be half million. This whole town is half million Western Mass, it gets kinda cheaper of being so far from everything to pay for the house. -All right, well let's get into it. Yeah. -You sure you don't wanna come? I got a gig tonight, Oh, nice. Nice! -You play banjo? -Nice. -What's the name of the band? -The Suqnots? Okay, do you have -Facebook. -So people should look up the Suqnots. -S-U-Q. S. We don't want to offend anybody. [Gerald laughs] Love you, dad. -Okay, guys. You got a cool dad. You know the band Heart, Peter? His band opened up for one of the sisters People who played that song Barracuda [Peter sings the guitar from Barracuda] You ever go to that staircase -Yeah, I have. It's pretty cool. I was lucky enough to be able I mean even in the time I've been alive I have seen a lot of Some good, some bad and there's a lot that need people to want to care I mean some of the towns -So not far from here you have towns -Mm-hmm, definitely, yeah. -This is a great existence. There's stuff for people to do like gardening clubs When you say they think it's Boston like when someone says New York is such a big state -Yeah, New York is huge. [Gerald] Some guy just cut us off and that's what gives and why everybody calls us Massholes. It's not 100% across the board but if you go to other states what their least favorite state is or a lot of people will say Okay, so growing up in Vermont, and totally looked down on anything but definitely on Massachusetts But these days, I was in Southern Vermont That part of Massachusetts -It's beautiful up there. -Up in the mountains. So back to all my content. -You can't necessary label a state easily. Because there's a region of the state, there might be For anyone watching, check out Western Mass. -It's very overlooked. Not a lot of people talk about it but there's mountain biking, -Beautiful out there. [mellow guitar plays] [Gerald] This is the town It was a military base It actually got shut down mid-'90s and there still is a portion of the town but there's a lot of residential When my dad was growing up and they used to come out here to pull through the gates. Now there's a lot of There's a nuclear power plant coming up after high school I was in the Carpenter's Union. That's a state-funded program The people from the inner-city jobs that they otherwise wouldn't be able Okay, so super helpful for you? Um, I consider it helpful there was a lot of It depends what group you aligned to. There as a lot of people who were So you had to stay and be with the right people, When I was growing up I got in some trouble that was in Worcester and I learned a lot from them. I think getting in trouble that there's a lot more in life and if I hang out with the right people instead of hanging out with There's a lot of trouble out here and gang violence. And there's definitely stuff to do but there's a lot less to do now There was a golf course basketball courts, batting cages. I mean there's still stuff for to do but it's a different type of Okay, this town -The migrant hotel's -Migrant hotel? -I think this town got approved and there was an open hotel. So I think the state They shipped the families over here So a lot of families get shipped up Any of the borderlines and some of the towns and a sense of community coming back. Whether you're out of the country Some towns are slowly dying and how densely populated Some towns do need Over on the back side you'll see All the bikes and some of them -Okay, so do you know any of Definitely... I actually wrote down Like what percentage of the people So there's 770 families Even though the number's probably But out of those 7,700 families and were eligible to work, and then another 2,000 were stuck waiting in the dust -Nothing figured out yet. But some of the were eligible to work and some were in the process or whatever the right paperwork [Peter sighs] These are the amount of families that and there's probably outliers and the town we're in right now and they got 45 families total they got like 150 people total. And then you got Worcester Which is a very big sum and... [Peter] Yeah. -Who am I? [Peter] I'm a human being. Okay, so what are you doing? [Peter] Oh, we're doing a video -Okay. What's &quot;Making Opportunity&quot;? -It's MOC, it's an organization. A non-profit. Um... There's the WIC programs, housing. -Okay, for who? What do you mean for who? Who are the people you're housing? -Um, anybody that needs help. -So any homeless person or any... Anyone can come here, okay. Where are the majority of people from? -There's different places. Do they need to have papers for this? As in asylum documents or it doesn't matter? -I don't think I can share that. I don't think I can You can't share? Why not? My job, sorry. -They won't let you? Who funds you guys? -Mm-hmm. Are all doors full or can someone It has to go through the process, Okay, but currently is every room full -No, it's all full. Do you know if these asylum claims giving 'em work papers so they -What do you mean? You know, they have legal documents, but the government's So do you notice a lot of that? A lot of people just wanting Um, yeah. Some of them. That's why we have -Okay. -[Gerald] Hey, how's it going today? We're making a video We were just at Wachusett Mountain, to get a glimpse of how the area's -You shouldn't be on this property. -I need to ask you to leave. -Okay. That's usually how it is, Peter. All these non-profits they don't give you any insight what's I was just in Kensington and there was a group there that's doing a lot of work -...and tight lips. And I think that's where the issue is Let's explain to the public This isn't an anti-immigrant, Yeah. It's a, we've had an influx of over...&quot; Who knows the number? Let's just say, I'm gonna get the numbers wrong but let's just say in the last four years, we're looking at 10 to 12 million. -Mm-hmm. -And then a ton that we don't know of. And so when we have communities more of a strain on the resources. You know, everyone's life has become -Things have, you know... I don't think everyone's life Especially the middle class right now and so they want to know Especially in a state like Massachusetts And I don't think it should be A lot of people just cling Whatever side you're on. So there really is It's the same arguments over and over -Let's go to a business near here. Maybe this guy would want to talk -[Peter] Okay, what's going on over there? You want me to do this -Yeah. So have you been down to Fall River, -[Peter] What? -Three got burnt down a little bit ago. Two of them were like a month apart. -An accident or they... No, they didn't do it on purpose I think one was a grill. This is the only one the National Guard as security. -Other ones have National Guards? -Okay, how many of these are there? You can't go on a website -But you'll know. The signs -Okay, so that's how you know? -So you'll go buy a... what.... a Motel 6? The only sign but the regular one will You'll know a motel -I think that's their meals. I wish you guys could walk in there It's sad because a lot of the food Say they bring a hundred meals in, you'll see them when they bring because they're getting a card than just, you know, mac and cheese -They get stipends -Yes, they have little beach wagons. You just came at the wrong time, there's -Because it's Saturday maybe? I mean they'll go down to do their laundry over to Shop 'n Save First off, they kicked out Which was wrong. Um... -Born in the US people? Probably see six or seven of them Those were people that lived in this town They had a vet over there He was amputated from his knee down -Oh, wow. So I get you come over the right way, You know, but they way they're There's a bunch of Brazilians in this town that don't get any of this. Right. You know, and I don't understand that. The people that did it the right way, -...are really pissed right now. The people that have been here for a while The locals, if they know what's going on, -Yeah, we're all immigrants. -You know how hard it is to find people. You want good workers and if that person but in a legal way, in an orderly way. -Yes. -Dime. I think that's what it comes down to. They have nicer cars than we do That guy bought that motel Six months before and he's literally put a new roof on it, painting it, gardening, He's gonna have the... -Just on rental. So you figure he's He's driving a corvette now. -Okay. -The red one. Indirectly, you two -'Cause you live in Massachusetts. What's crazy is if my daughter the town will shut us down. They'll go and sell groceries. I'm not joking. -Okay, so your daughter does like... And the second day [exhales in disbelief] So the most quintessential is have your kids set up a lemonade stand. -I grew up doing that. She doesn't learn the basic lessons and making something, -On her own, right? -Instead, across the street... Everyone here is supposed to do the work and pay for people's Where it gets complicated some are legitimate asylum claims. Yes. Some are, they should be here, Absolutely, yeah. -The majority are economic migrants. Pay $20,000 from India, fly into Mexico City, fly to Mexicali, Yep. Gets you to the gap in the wall, our Customs Border Protection gets on 'em, quarter mile down the border the sex traffic, Yep. -They're making billions. And we're facilitating it. So a lot that originally came in here that we had no idea -Wait, the migrants Logan Airport, yes. -Where were they staying? In a back room? No, in a hallway. Like where you get on the flights -Okay. How are people in the community Is it split There's, um... No, because you can't really go online if you go on and bash something So there's not been any backlash Uh, that got shut down. There's been other YouTube people -And the cops have made them leave. Does the media ever show up? -Local media? They don't touch it. Not with a ten foot pole? Uh, 'cause we're Okay, so if it looks bad for one party Absolutely, yes. Vice versa, if it looks bad for the other I have to find out on YouTube down in Fall River, other hotels I literally find out the news So... [laughs] That's my news, man. [Peter] All right guys, it's deep, there's I haven't found a media outlet Because who doesn't have compassion or these kids that are on their bikes My beef with all of this is just The secrecy. Where the money is going. And also the chaos at the border. Which communities and the only reason I know this is because Texas, Arizona, So you can sort of see It's just very messy to operate a border like this Nobody else really does it. A few Western countries places like Ukraine, despite the chaos there would never and live there. And I'm talking migrants, But my point is I can't go to Mexico and do this, I can't go to Ukraine and do this. So it's a somewhat Where we're all paying for this and Gerald wanted to show It's all kept in the dark You wouldn't really know Wouldn't you like to know what this is These are all simple questions. The fact that me, as the YouTuber is a bit crazy we currently live in. But thank God we have these platforms Ask questions, dig deeper, be respectful, [twangy guitar plays] [Peter] So from first impressions Fair to say? [Gerald] It's slowly coming back you can hear my car's rattling every 20,000 miles. There's not a lot of work There's a lot more decay Over there, that bridge was and my dad said when he grew up people were talking about how that bridge and it's gonna be and obviously Fitchburg's -Yeah, and just to let all you guys know we're gonna go to some -Just to show the contrast, right? On YouTube we could just show and people will walk away thinking, &quot;Oh, Central Massachusetts Right? America's falling apart. Or I could show the nicest places all day and they'll be like, -Yeah, exactly. [Peter] This is not putting Fitchburg -I'm sure there's awesome stuff here. -That's a crazy looking church. [Gerald] There are stores on Main Street but it is a lot more empty and you don't see as many people walking There's broken glass on that storefront. -There's vacant buildings. [Gerald] There's also stuff coming back. There's good restaurants, Back in the '80s and '70s it was but there was and come around the '90s -Do you know what the industry here was? -The major industry was paper production, and a lot of that stuff. A lot of the local rivers from them dumping the dyes -This looks really nice around here. But you can kind of see on Main Street how it never will be like it once was. Like how when they were growing up [Peter] Well the things are still there [Gerald] Changed, yeah. [Gerald] This area's a lot more built-up, a lot more corporate places that was filled to the brim for a while. [Gerald] Maybe we can ask this guy [vacuum whirring] [Gerald] Excuse me, sir. -Are there any rooms available. -How come? -Oh, okay. They gave them to the homeless people. -Where are the homeless from? [vacuum continues] -[Peter] All over? -Oh, here's the number right here. &quot;If you're looking for accommodations at &quot;Adult shelter only.&quot; We don't know -The guy in Ayer said migrants Like the guy was saying it was originally -Oh, it's open. [vacuum continues] [Peter] Okay, I would It could be just homeless people but he was saying it was migrants. [Peter] Sir, why are you wearing the mask? Because COVID! -COVID? [Peter incredulously] I'm bringing COVID Read that. Call that number. You got Mpox in here? [Gerald laughs] Mpox too? -Get out of here! [Gerald giggles] Sounded like my Uncle Donny, They had Monkey Pox vaccines You drive by, So he put on the N95... -And stood behind a door. Wow. Guys, it's really hard to get you Getting access or people to speak -Impossible. [both laugh] Well I'm guessing the Federal government's Per room, per family, and they get -Right, and the average The federal government's not stepping in That's what I'm guessing. It's a very deep dive issue because when we have Like we have and people are struggling, right? Oh yeah, definitely. And so there's all sorts of homeless, -Mental illness. And some not, right? But it's just like rent has gotten so high and so we have more people down and out. Imagine you come into a new country, you walk over the border they process you, give you a free bus ticket documents that say you're legit, free housing, food, healthcare, and then maybe you can go work. Okay, that's sticky. Some can, some can't. Some people are gonna do A lot of DoorDash stuff. A lot of delivery stuff. The loopholes you can get. And so those are your and then you're around beautiful roads, and you're probably thinking, I mean look at this, &quot;They just paid for all my stuff, Not understanding what you're saying -There's a lot of people on the other side collecting government checks, People who've been living So now they're accustomed to that I had a cousin like that. He claimed disability for, I don't know, [Gerald chuckles] And that's not... Okay, to be fair, some Definitely. But Cousin Donny stubbed his toe [Peter] The reality of all this is you die. Mm-hmm. But you can be here. We're growing a population and we should be, I feel as a nation, recognizing that, giving the mental health treatment the job training that's needed, that's needed, right? And build people up so they can build their life, and raise a better family. Like that's the... None of this is easy -It seems like we're doing the opposite. My mom grew up really poor. She grew up with a single mother and she grew up eating Cheerios, because it was She didn't know what a healthy meal because she was kinda stuck in that box of not getting or learning about nutrition, or learning and I mean I think the public in that same situation. They don't teach a lot of kids and what should be learned. -Like how to run a business. That should be number one Because the internet is a thing, right? And the information's gonna come at you Most of it's garbage and BS, right? 100%. So developing critical thinking skills and we're in a time where Everything's politicized. I don't know one media organization Like truth is very hard to find But like there's no There's no blue-red stuff. It's like let's get to the bottom of this. I don't think that exists anymore. So this actually turned into and that's fine. -I go where the story goes. What it leads into. [Gerald] The average house in -Wow. -Henry David Thoreau wrote his book, -No way. Walden Pond's pretty close to here. That's a pretty nice little area. A lot of expensive restaurants [Peter] &quot;Concord Bookshop.&quot; Yeah, looks very nice. This is how far from Fitchburg? -Like 25 minutes. -We didn't even go to the real bad part -Not really, no. If you're living in Fitchburg or here you're living in two different universes. Colonial Inn, 1716, look at that. Wow. -We're right nearby Henry Longfellow Inn, the one Henry Ford also made his own village He planned on having full of like-minded individuals, and they all did this and that. -Had his own utopia out there? Own utopia, he built a dam and it's called because the dam wasn't set right and the ground rock If you walk in the woods There's a 2,000 foot long dam by ox and man. He didn't want to use any machines, and the whole village ended up flopping. -Oh, this place is beautiful. -Okay, so no migrant hotel here? And it has 89 families. I don't know exactly We can hit it in a few minutes -It's right nearby where we are anyways. So that is surprising that -Mm-hmm. -And you pulled up &quot;Former Concorde hotel Quietly welcomes migrant families.&quot; &quot;Simon Cataldo said the town of family shelters.&quot; &quot;Last year the Best Western It was the first of its kind in town. Which has a median home price last year Okay, that's what you said, right? &quot;The new shelter on Elm Street accommodates families from Concord as an overflow from emergency It's just interesting that we're in and we're coming across and that's what this video turned into. Sorry for those looking for Didn't happen. 'Nother video maybe but that's where That's the most interesting Now to be fair, the last month, month and a half. For a couple reasons, 110 degrees in Arizona is pretty tough. And two, this administration to slow it down. We're coming up on elections. to have a huge flow -Is it here? 'Cause they're not gonna label it. -Yes, they have the signs covered up. [Peter] Okay, let's try Okay, this has to be a hotel Just drive to the back actually. Okay, we have some nice cars in here. All right, yeah, people are living here. This is not a hotel right now. Lot of storage here. Storage containers brought in. Interesting. But with the cars we drove by, sorry to say, Gerald, nicer than your car. [Gerald] No, it definitely is. [Peter] And... &quot;No outside donations&quot;. -It was the Inn at Historic-- [Peter] Okay, they see the camera. Go ahead. [Gerald] I'm sorry about that. [woman shouting in Spanish] [Gerald] Hey, how's it going? [man] Actually it's no longer -Okay, what is it -It's a private shelter. [Peter] Is it for -Yes. -It's a hybrid of homeless -Yes, refugees in general. -Asylum claims? It's like a shelter. It's for everyone. [Gerald] Mm-hmm. -[woman] Hello. -Good, you? We're trying to understand. that want to go to a shelter. How do they do that? -Are they families or individuals? -Individuals. -Individuals? and it depends the area they're from. -Okay. -So like for example, -Okay. Usually around here -Okay. -So it'll be like from Gardner, -Yep. -Halfway down here. Um, and we refer them to SMOC. SMOC are for individuals. -Okay, cool. But I don't know, there's other places. I guess it depends on the area. -Mm-hmm. But you're just seeing -Oh, yeah. -[Peter] You get your COVID booster? [Peter] USCIS, okay, That's interesting. [women speaking Spanish] You guys have healthcare here? -[Gerald] Mass Health. [woman] I don't work Every shelter works differently. I know they're supposed to -Talk to us? Okay. [Peter] What percentage is it migrants [woman] I mean right now we're trying to sustain -Migrant families, yeah. -But individual people, and that's if they can get in 'cause right now they're changing -How so? -Before I could, um... He's got roses, look at that. -Romantic. [Peter chuckles] -I can make referrals. But now they have to call the new number and the process goes like if they can find shelter they go to that overflow shelter -They kick them out? I don't know where they go [Gerald] Not to interrupt, with a cell phone and everything [Peter] The feds do but that's terrible [woman] Yeah, So I don't know, I mean-- -But big increase overall -Big time? [Gerald] Thank you, Have a great day. [Peter] We're all around the region [Gerald] Those are the people People that want to speak on it. -Yeah, it's so hard So what is that? What is that language? Swahili or something? That's interesting. Yeah, so look it... &quot;Find a doctor, Citizenship Resource Center, Naturalization Eligibility Tool, get legal help.&quot; So as she says, it's majority migrants and then a lot of people 'cause there's no room. Wow. And then... We should get going. And then the owner of this place All right guys, quite an interesting day and we all have to thank Gerald Now way I would have And I think the big question after today, we all want answers, and when you have something it makes people wonder what's going on. So I think that would quell or the questions if we just had &quot;Here's what we're doing. They are allowed to work. They get no free meals, no healthcare.&quot; or &quot;This hotel is for migrants, they're not allowed to work. They get food, healthcare, school.&quot; Nobody knows. We're all sort of left Which is very unfortunate Most Americans are great people. We're getting pitted against one another because nobody I've been trying my best. Been to the southern border, really put a lot of time in on this topic So watch my content, watch other people's content. Understand this has become and hopefully in years to come we'll have better transparency about what's going on here. All right guys, Until the next one. [twangy guitar plays]