Ly Tieu LY hello everyone, I wish everyone a happy, peaceful and peaceful new day. Thank you everyone for taking care of Tieu Ly during the past time. I cleaned all the house around the place to make it neat. Come in. Yes, I'm going to the construction site. I'll come over with you this afternoon . I'll arrange everything around to be neat. This place has just finished construction, so it's a bit messy. Let's go. There's this place in the back, I'll arrange it neatly. Let's tidy it up. Yes, it's a bit of a hassle, but I'm willing to work hard to keep everything neat and tidy. As for the kitchen, I'll just clean it up a bit. I'll arrange the other tubers and call them so we can get firewood for cooking. Yes, as for the places in front of the yard, when I have time, I will clean them up. Little glass, what are you doing? What are you doing? I 'm eating corn. Can you help me a little with the one I just bought? Give me some food I'll put it down here. It's just a joke but it's too heavy. I'm looking at what you just ate. I was eating corn. I just went to get water on the way back and got another corn on the way . Buy me some things so I can cook and eat better . Thank you. I bought a lot of things for you. If you see what's missing, I'll buy more someday. Do you have something? I went to the market and saw them. I have a very beautiful chicken. Someone buy it here so I don't feel sad. I have to leave it for 1 or 2 days before I can release it. My face is dirty. I'll clean it. It's okay. I bought a lot of things for me today, including food. I put the things out to see what's missing. I'll come back someday. It's flying up there. This box is a cup for drinking water. I bought both pots and pans for you to cook. I bought some rice and gave me a a little meat , let it slice and then I'll cook. The whole bowl, chopsticks and spoon, let me know if there's anything missing. Oh, are you drinking water? It's convenient for me to go get water and boil it. I'll wash the dishes and cook the rice, too. Let me know. Put this tea set in there. I just put the cup and the drinking mug on the bed. I bought food and rice for you to cook. Yes, I've finished cooking. I'll eat here with you. Can you boil water in a bamboo tube? Yes, I boil water in a bamboo tube. From tomorrow onwards, I'll boil water in this kettle. I just bought it for you. Yes, I'll cook rice now. I'll eat here and eat with you. Yes, I'll eat. Come with me, I'll get you some water to drink. I'm shaking like this but I can still cook sticky rice. Boil the rice in a bamboo tube and I can still get sticky rice like normal. I've never drank water boiled in a bamboo tube before. Let me get you a cup to try. Boiling water Inside the bamboo tube, there will be the aroma of bamboo. I've never drank it before, so I don't know what it tastes like. Put the bamboo tube in like that and the sticky rice will come out. Let me try. Let me try. Let me wait for you to blow on it a bit to cool it down. Yes, you can give it to me so I can blow it myself. Thank you. Yes, I'll go cook rice. The fragrance is really pleasant. The water is fragrant and delicious. Yes, there's still a little left. I'll drink it again. This morning, I'll wake up and go. get water Yes, you guys go to the water and put it back on the sidewalk. The other day there were some bamboo bars that were still open. Then I went to the water. And a little more miscellaneous work. Yes, the kitchen over here is bigger, so I have to move. Go to the side to cook. From now on, I boil water in a kettle, not with a bamboo tube anymore. Yes, before I didn't have much to use, so I used to boil water with a bamboo tube. This is a very fragrant drink. This is the chicken. I dare you to leave it here with me for fun . Yes, this water is very fragrant. Today is the first time I've had water boiled in a bamboo tube. Yes, I often boil water like this to drink because it will have a natural fragrance. more The climate here is starting to change, I feel a bit uncomfortable. Yes, the weather is starting to change gradually. I see people often boil water to drink with medicinal plant stones in the forest. Try to learn from them. See Yes, I went to cut palm leaves to make a broom and saw it so I took it and boiled it for you to try. This water boiled in a bamboo tube is really delicious . This chicken is really very good. I'm going to the market today. Yes, today. When returning from the construction site, I passed the market and I turned in to buy you some things Have you finished cleaning the house and the bed ? Yes, I've finished cleaning it all. This time I have a lot of work so I'm tired. Please sit down and rest so I can cook for you . I'll cook for you. Yes, just rest. These days, work is done. I 'm tired from a lot of work. Just take a break, I can cook for myself. I'll help you . Yes, just sit down and rest. I fell down the other day. Are you still in pain? Oh , I've had a lot of relief. Luckily, I'm okay. I'm full. I'm sure he 's so tired. Why am I so tired today ? Have you finished cooking? Are you awake? Yes, I've finished cooking. Let me carry it into the house. Let's eat together. Yes, I'm boiling some water. There's a tonic in there. I'm so tired, I'll lie down and fall asleep. What kind of water is this? Yes, this is some medicine. It helps nourish the body. Come in here to eat. Come and eat with me. Look, the water is boiling. Yes, I'll wait for you to take out a kettle to put it in. Push me to help. The water smells really fragrant. Yes , this is also a medicinal plant, so it's fragrant . Let's go in and eat. Come in. Here, I've finished everything. Oh wait, let me put the chicken in here too. I'll put the chicken right here for it. Please sit down to eat. This time, I have a lot of work to do and I'm very tired. Yes, what day? I'm too busy to come with you. I see the rice and soup you cook is delicious . Let me get a glass of water . What are you boiling? It's very fragrant. Yes, this is a tree. It's very fragrant. I invite you to eat rice Yes, thank you . The rice is so delicious, I have to eat a lot. You cook very well. Let's eat rice too. The rice is so delicious here. It's cool and the air is fresh. Please eat. I'm sorry. These days, I'm sorry. When the weather changes, I feel a lot of pain in my body, especially in my throat. You eat a lot. I think this meal is very delicious. I work a lot at the construction site and rarely have time to eat and cook. When will I be too busy? If you have time to cook, then come here and I'll cook for you to eat. I always go to the construction site and sit with my brothers, so I eat this. This water is so fragrant, I really like drinking it. You'll be fine with me too . Yes, sir. Where did I get this vegetable? It's so delicious. I got it from around here. In a few days, I'll clean up and plant some vegetables in the front. You see, this front is still very spacious. I'm gardening to grow vegetables that I can eat and eat at the same time. I can sell it. I can also raise some chickens, some pigs, and some other animals. I can raise whatever animal I like. Yes. When I can build a barn, I will buy it to raise Com. It's so delicious, I have to eat a lot of it. Yes, I have to eat a lot. You also have to eat a little. I'll give you one. It's been a long time since I've had such a delicious meal. Whenever you're free, come over with me to eat. Let's have dinner with you. I will arrange more time to spend with you. The air here is very fresh and pleasant . I think it's also very quiet here. I really like this place. I think there will be no one here. I won't bother you anymore and it will be much safer for you. Please give me this fragrant and delicious water. I see you go to the construction site and people boil a lot of delicious drinking water like this. I see medicinal plants. When boiled, natural ingredients have a fragrant aroma and are easy to drink. They help us cool down the body. Go ahead and eat a little more. Yes, let's eat together. Speaking of the new home, the crow must like it very much. Now again, now. I also have another friend staying with me and I don't feel sad at all. I'll move all my furniture so I can have a place to sleep. I'll also stay here for now, don't go anywhere. I feel like I'm still missing one thing. Just a few things, but I'll probably buy them when I go to the market. If you see anything missing, just let me know. There's a little bit of the wall left so I can call someone to do it for you. I can do this, no need to call someone. I also I don't do much at home, so I can do it myself, and I also want to do it my way to make it more enjoyable. Yes, I can eat too. Try to eat. I feel full. I can eat the rice you cooked and it feels delicious. I will eat more . I haven't eaten a delicious meal in a long time and feel happy. Like that, I only eat at the construction site and at home, I'm alone. Even though I live alone, I still have to try to eat well. When I 'm alone when I'm sick, there's no one to take care of me and be by my side . lol I'm listening. You guys just wait for me at the construction site. I'll be there. Okay, okay. Can you help me move these things to the kitchen ? I'm taking off now. I have urgent work at the construction site, so I have to go. Yes. Of course, it's late at this hour but there's still a lot of work to do. Hey, I forgot my hat. Hey, I forgot my hat. Thank you. Thank you. Please help me move the tray down to the kitchen. I have to go to the construction site now. When I'm done, I'll come back to you. Yes, yes. I'll go. When I'm done, I'll come back