Hi there, I'm David Benites and this is Extreme about false cord vs. fry scream. Now, there's a Internet about this subject so I'm gonna give the functionality of the moving parts for both them to work together to make these sounds in a and reducing the amount of effort you're using anatomy so I'm going to talk to you a bit about into how to turn that into the scream sound. The larynx or the voice box, depending on who you're a little bit here. The vocal cords are smack in are actually right above this part that sticks out what houses the false cords themselves. Now, they just like bits of membranes just folded over like activate the vocal cords you can actually get vibration. Now, it's not quite the same because as the vocal cords are in our ability to be able pitch. The false cords are a bit dumber with their of connecting in specific spots they connect in what this does is it creates overtones. That's this but with any sort of distortion work it's all for example of how these sounds kind of come out similar to ours but it's underdeveloped it's not their vocal cords aren't as small or delicate or they smack around a little bit less coherently. you get overtones from that. I'm going to use that and you can hear how they come together. Now, I'm the false cords sound like by themselves. It's kind of thin. It's not that big a sound. You way in and on the way out if I'm just breathing silently and you don't hear anything that sound vibrate. Now, by themselves it doesn't create that that and combine the sounds now we have something sounds. And it doesn't have to just go down either bend the sound around by using pitch control as well. Now, like I said it's the combination together that make this big intense very full before you play around with this style. On the what I find is not talked about enough is what register and the fry scream are not the same that is, is it's when you slow down the movement actually starts to be able to hear the individual Quick thing on that, for pitch control when getting stretched out and they're coming closer how higher pitches are made and the other way the vocal cords are slowing down and spreading a certain degree it's still relatively fast but You can hear all those little individual Notice how I can still control the pitch at that moving so this is very much a tonal movement. to be able to use the fry vocal scream well and able to have a fair amount of flexibility in range work as well are very important in terms to make that sound itself, it's a combination upper part of the throat and a bit more air and that's going to cut through a little bit more. as well is very crucial to this sensation as well. register [fry vocal register example] fry vocal sound is different. There's a little similarity sensation in there. I think of it almost like a that's kind of what that sounds like but with the Now, I'm not working that much harder to get sensation forward and using that resonance to register to help [example] and essentially able to make the sound. Now as you'll notice, The mouth shapes that you're using for the fry on how the sound comes out. So flexibility in this control this type of vocal. Now pros and cons always going to be the right or the wrong answer versus another because if you can balance them vocals to happen in a healthy way it more so comes is being able to get them to happen naturally and force. That's one thing that I see talked about, people say that getting this type of vocal out sound and how much push and squeeze you're able whatever. You want to make sure you're not working too hard to make these sounds that's when instead going to get this very intense internal conflict lot of people end up hurting themselves. Now, the fry vocal scream is purely vocal cord based, of scream where people more often get hurt because out. Compared to my standard voice [sung note] it's not that loud. It's not supposed to be that more so about how you balance it and then increase of just, like I said, force. If you work too that's where things are gonna get tired very likely to damage yourself. So, regardless of time make sure you're thinking about the balance and wrong with either of them. Now, to wrap it up out there those aren't the only two forms of vocal see as being the two most common ones out there, misinformation about those and give you guys a parts are to these types of vocals, how to get have what you need to make sure you can make to do and how to get there. Thank you so much