Guys, thank you so much for watching today. It was, I can say, the best sunrise I've ever witnessed, the best set I've ever witnessed. Everything was magical today. I don't have any word. During the whole live set, I was completely lost in your sound and also watching all the comments. I saw only love and only people united today through your music. I think that's really something out of this world. Thank you, man. It was really speechless. Speechless. - Yeah. You guys are crazy that you do that. Thank you. - It's completely insane. - Yeah it was insane. One of the happiest experiences of my life. Thank you so much. Thank you to everyone. I just want to say thank you during 10 minutes. What was your mindset before coming here when you woke up this morning? up this morning? I don't know, I don't know, at 3am or something like this? I woke up at 3.30am. 3.30am, yeah. I went to bed quite late because I was excited. But I woke up and I was filled with adrenaline. So I wasn't even tired at all. There was... - I really have to interrupt. No worries. Yeah, no worries. No problem. Insane feeling. I can't describe that. It was my first time on a hot air balloon... And I'm quite comfortable at the ground, to be honest. And not really in the air? So I was nervous, to be honest. I was. Not the same kind of nervous that when you play in front of people, for example? Are you still nervous when you play in front of people? I am. It depends on if I'm in a new country, in a new venue, in front of a new crowd. And it's a new experience. Then I, of course, get nervous. But I like that. That keeps me focused and concentrated. But today, yeah, there was all of this world. And at the beginning, a lot of stress, right? Yeah. Let's speak about your last EP, Phases. Okay. Which I find really, really beautiful EP. Thank you. And most especially, I really like the track &quot;Phases&quot;. But I wanted to ask... You always have this kind of epic feel thing in your tracks. What images come into your head when you produce or when you play these kind of tracks? I think of a process of the... Like in the beginning of the production. It's not about image. It's more about the feeling that I would like to bring into the track. Of course. But I also like... I'm hearing you in the afterlife. Sorry, that's why I was a bit... It's more about the feeling that... More about the feeling, yeah. But also the visualization of music. To get pictures, to get colors with the tracks. I also like that. And what is the color of Phases? Purple. Purple? I don't know why I say purple. So in this track, Phases, you collaborated with Spencer Brown again. But how does this collaboration work? Because you both produce this track. How does it work? He lives in San Francisco. And I live in Berlin. And when I was there, long before Corona, I spent some time at his house and we started to make music. And that's how the first track came around. And then we made Phases when he was in Berlin. We were both playing at ABGT 350 in Prague last year. And so he stayed at my place. So we were able to work on that track. And both tracks were finished after that week. That was pretty good. Oh, nice. And also you played a lot of unreleased tracks today. And one of the tracks is called &quot;Cappadocia&quot;, like this place, that we will release on our brand new label Cercle Records. - Congrats for that, actually. Thank you for being the first release! It's an honor. It's an honor for us too. You have special vocals in there. But I think it's a sample, right? It's a sample, yeah. How did you... I mean, what is your process when you select... No problem, you're right. Sorry. What is the process behind selecting this kind of vocals or the artist you want to work with? That depends. With this track, my friend Romain Garcia, who's also from France, he sent me the idea of the track. And that included the sample I really loved that. And so we decided to start to work on that together. You have time to think about it. Then I would say... in my room with the singer. And it depends. Sometimes you get vocals from another singer via the Internet. Sometimes you're in the same room or sometimes you sample. We were lucky enough that the African band applied or said yes to that. Also, a question that I really saw a lot on the live stream was things or people that influenced you. If you had to choose one person that influenced you the most during your life, who would that be and why? One person. Can I choose three? You have time to think about it. Then I would say... Paul Kalkbrenner, Stephan Bodzin and Extrawelt. Because all of them are insanely good live acts, and they don't try to fit into gaps and they found their own sound. I have big respect for that, that they do their own thing without sounding functional or like that. I think these guys inspired me a lot. I love their music. - Interesting. I will also look for the online questions. So I selected two, but the first one is not really a question. It's, I think, more of a compliment for you. Question from Mike: Have you thought about how the history and culture of this place has shaped the modern world and how your music will do the same for later generations? So it's more as a compliment, I think. That's sweet. Thanks, Mike. And I also wanted to speak about this whole pandemic. And this is a question from Sin Maya. What's your vision on how we are going to listen to live music in the future post-pandemic? That's a pretty good question. And it's difficult to answer that because nobody can tell you how this will be next year. But I feel like that we are able to have small gatherings maybe in a half year, and that we continue with that and slowly getting bigger and bigger and bigger. But nobody knows right now. What has been your biggest teaching during this pandemic? And have you done something that you had never done before? I actually did what I did before, just a bit longer. I love to be on stage, but I'm feeling more comfortable in the studio writing music. And last year I was playing quite a lot. And so I had the chance to spend a lot of time in the studio and working on the new album. And I'm pretty happy with that so far. And without that lockdown, it wouldn't be like that. And it was also nice to get in touch with friends again and focus on a bit of normal life, awake at the same time. Last question. If you had to choose: sunrise or sunset? I like to sleep. I like to sleep probably sunset, but you don't get that many... Ah, it depends. Actually, no, I'm a fan of sunrise. It was beautiful here. It's difficult. Well, thank you so much, Ben, for today. It will stay in our memory forever. Same for me. Thank you so much, guys. Really. Much love. And we have a little gift for you. I mean, GoTurkiye--which is the country, Turkey-- is offering you this pottery, which is very old from Hittitian culture. So I hope you will like it. Thank you very much. It's beautiful. And I also wanted to thank Murat, our pilot today. That was really nice. Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for helping us with all the organization because it has been really tough for all the team. And thanks to you, we made it as well. And thank you to GoTurkiye that helped us as well. Thank you, guys, for watching. You were so many. And you sent so much love that it's really why we are doing this, I think. So thank you very much. And see you next time. Bye-bye, guys. Bye-bye. (team cheering) I need to hug you. Yeah, definitely. F**k Covid. Wow! We did it! Thank you. Thank you so much. Well done. Thank you. It was insane. Feel hacked. Oh, I need a cigarette.