- &quot;Can I tell you something? There's nothing better than the pump.&quot; I said that in 1975 in &quot;Pumping Iron,&quot; I'm not gonna go there. Hey, I'm Arnold, (laughs) But anyway, come and work out with me. Let's do it. (upbeat music) The only reason why someone when they get up is That's the biggest mistake you can make. I don't think I feed my and immediately after get on the bicycle and bicycle down here. And then after when it's and have my breakfast that's When you train it is not just and gets stimulated with And you have a much more on the day and on life. When you have already or a bicycle ride or a or whatever sport you do. Gotta get this out of the way for the rest of the day. Everything is kind of like versus looking through a It's like everything looks brighter. My body and body building I don't know if I wouldn't if I would've gotten the clear vision of where I wanted to go in life. I don't know if I ever that you have to work your ass in order to be successful. This is why I say I was born in Austria, but made in America. Not self-made, but made. There was a lot of things (steady music) - [Soldier] Uh! - Obstacles that they had to overcome and not consider yourself a self-made man, which is bullshit, but to know You know, &quot;Hercules in New &quot;Predator,&quot; all of those and &quot;Total Recall&quot; I I worked out two hours a day. 'Cause after having had and then having had surgeries and all those kind of things. It's important to kind of protect my body and do therapy training at the same time. So I just do it faster, and I try to stay young. (gunshots firing) - You the fastest, 65 year - I guess I'm done. I'm gonna give you the inside, inside information. So this is what I do every morning. I come in here and I do 25 - Sir. Look at that. Here's a happy camper. - Arnold, Morgan. Morgan, Arnold. - Hey, nice to meet you. - Take it easy, this is my drinking arm. (both laughing) Jesus Christ. Can't get no respect around here. Do the biceps a curling exercise and always start out with high reps. So we kind of warm up the Like in my case, the elbows. The first set I do like It's just for the elbow protection. (steady music) I know I'm pumped up because I have my new Arnold's Classic watch. It's the official watch Close up. It just came out this is the first one. Oops, oh. (chuckles) I feel bad because the Olympia Let me just put it back (steady music) Tries extension exercise. No different than when you do squats. You warm up the knees or when you do that if you warm up your It's always important to For me, it's not about working out with the heaviest weights, it's just I try to move as fast as I can from one exercise to the next. Look at this master here. Go for it, come on now. You can gimme two more. One more. There you are. And one for mommy. You son of a bitch. (group clapping) You see, when you have he can inspire you to do (upbeat music) Front press. (upbeat music) 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and hold it up there, hold it up there. Hold it in and slowly down, slowly down. Yeah, get the burn. Think about the growth of No, there is jealousy in your eyes. - Yeah there is. Do you believe that? I'm jealous to look way. - Oh you? - I'm nonthreatening. (laughs) (hands slap) - Ow. He's one of my training partners. So when I miss Franco, I Franco was 5'2&quot;, 5'3&quot;. - I'm 4'5&quot;, 4'6&quot;. - Yeah, but you powerhouse. A great stunt man. - Yeah. - Swordsman, yeah. - And a great friend. - Right, yep. - You're strong like an animal. Go ahead let's hit your arms. And now flex. Now you're talking. See, this is the man. Give me five. Come on now, let's go, - You gotta have fun. We always have fun when we work out Elbow raises on the machine. (steady music) Because so many people when they exercise and then they wonder, &quot;Why am I not growing? Why am I not progressing?&quot; But they didn't exercise the right way. If you do it from the beginning you can really tell that it Real deltoid exercise. (steady music) That was a set. Today I did front press a deltoid exercise. So we can cover the front, the Just like in the old we did like 30 sets for If you want to go to the gym every day and you want to work out every day and your bike ride every whatever training it is every day. Then you roll out bed and you don't think. Most important thing is There's a time to think So you roll out bed, you put (air hissing)