Summer 1945... Victory Day Before the Soviet leaders, famous russian army As under the Roman Empire, soldiers throw the flags The man who beat Hitler Joseph Stalin. After 20 years the master of the USSR is A poet writes, - "Stalin, you are higher than and only your thoughts Your Stalin spirit - It is called Worldwide, he embodies He is the idol of hundreds In France also - Yes, with all our heart, we proclaim our and we assure it - Yet this man is one He massacred his own people. - &quot;We will mercilessly annihilate or even in thought, - He enslaved - &quot;We must cut off the harmful limbs and infection. >> - He cynically provoked famines - "Death solves all problems. More men, more problems. >> - He sacrificed his family - &quot;A true Bolshevik - Here is the amazing story one of the characters The story of the man who declared and who has become by force one of the most dictators The year 1924. the surroundings of Moscow, in the Russian winter. Lenin, the father of the revolution It is one of the first With Soviet officials, he carries the chief's coffin. Stalin is 46 years old. He is secretary general a relatively quiet post. Among his comrades, no one yet imagines that They do not imagine that in ten years, he will have had almost all of them liquidated. Among them, no one has understood yet For his comrades, - &quot;Stalin is the most eminent We are not afraid of Stalin. As soon as he wants to take - Always, His real name is Iossif Dzhugashvili. He was born in 1878, A monarchical regime and submission to rulers. A miserable childhood. An alcoholic and violent father. Educated by Orthodox monks, he flipped very early and he took the name of Stalin, the man of steel. In 1917 he participated with Lenin A revolution that overthrew the Tsar, abolished the privileges In the shadow of Lenin, he waits for an opportunity Lenin's death is that occasion. In 1924 he succeeded to spread the highest Leon Trotsky, before exiling him. Stalin in a few months He won't leave him again. He chooses to settle here, in the Kremlin citadel, It is from here that he will lead the USSR. Union of Republics the largest country on the planet. With a few devotees who go he wants to go further than Lenin. He wants to change the course of history. - "We Bolsheviks, we are of a special breed. The personal element is not worth a nail. Do not doubt it, comrades. I'm ready all my strength and every drop of my blood. >> - Stalin wants to do He abruptly removes which the revolution had spared. He decrees religion In all the countries, he makes it disappear In place, he nurtures a radical project, the communism. An ideal society. Without rich or poor. A world where A world where everyone A world where health and For the Soviet Union, - &quot;Old Russia has always Slow down the pace and the stragglers will be beaten. We in the Soviet Union we don't want to be beaten anymore. >> - He launches gigantic construction sites, Skyscraper, subway, railway, barrage. He wants to modernize Russia for her to become A world where unemployment does not exist. and where every worker can offer - We, party soldiers, always ready. We thank you Stalin for the happiness that - Stalin is the guide His portrait is everywhere. Every Soviet must It must be perfect, because it represents He corrected himself millions of copies. On the trials, - "Add the sentence, Stalin is the greatest and of all peoples. >> - The real Stalin is no longer commonplace. He measures 1m60. He wears shoes Often it stands on a small plate Look at this picture, His skin is pockmarked, because he caught Curiously, in public, nothing seems to be. The new master of the Kremlin He lives locked up in his office and he jealously hides his private life. Here are the photos that we a former comrade 22 years her junior. With her he had two children. Vasily and Svetlana, his darling daughter. He exerts on her - &quot;As long as dad loves me, I'm If daddy asked me I will do it. >> - Very rare pictures show us during the summer holidays when he takes Ekaterina Voroshilov, the wife of one of his - "Stalin loved He took us by car and we settled down We lit a fire, we were grilling meat It was really good times. >> - However, from the first years, Stalin's policy Standard of living By multiplying Stalin sacrificed The population increases, but the building Whole families crowd together Look at these pictures, they were shot almost She is one of the few in the early 1930s. It's that rich Englishwoman, Lady Mountbatten who during a - "I see everywhere This old man who rummages in He was a teacher Here is a little boy who is all alone and asking me for help. Shop windows Above all, the queues In the queue, some remain without being able to buy anything. >> - In the USSR, the communist dream is already In the Kremlin, Stalin does not want to hear anything. For him, failure does not exist. If the system is faulty He is looking for culprits Like the commissioner that he considers incompetent and that a collaborator In the margin of the drawing, Stalin writes. - &quot;For all these sins hang Brioukhanov by the testicles. If they hold consider it as If they let go throw it in the river. >> - Stalin is only half joking. In 1930, he invented a method for The political trial. The defendants are scientists, engineers, They are all competent but Stalin accuses them of having - Stand up ! - Stalin himself is absent one of his devotees. Andrei Vyshinsky. He gave him the sentences to pronounce. The death. - I announce open, of the union government - For the trial to appear the accused must They were tortured and they don't really have a choice. - How to tell you... I have already explained to you that my feelings against Soviet power that these feelings - I fully agree that... that I deserve the worst punishment. - For the prosecutor, - The government finds you guilty and ask that - After several days of gesticulation, the judge pronounces the verdict. Not without a certain emotion. - Kalininkov Ivan Andreevich according to articles 583, 584, Soviet Union - Their sentence will be commuted to ten years Those who oppose With his loved ones too, Stalin becomes brutal. His relationship with his eldest son Yakov, He recently made his father did not show - &quot;To say that he has no I can't have anything - The couple of Stalin His wife Nadia is fragile. She suffers from being snubbed During an argument she gets away with it. - "You are an executioner. This is what you are. You torment your own son, your wife, the Russian people. It is impossible to live with you. >> - After 14 years together, Nadia is exhausted. One winter evening, after a new argument during Nadia goes back to her room The truth will remain The Russians are told that Nadia Since, suicide is betrayal. Even her friend - "Nadia was wrong. She leaves Stalin - Stalin did not stay He seems devastated. - "Nadiah! Nadia, as we had She left me She made me a cripple. She broke my life. >> - Stalin was brutal, now he will be ruthless. The first targets are the peasants who and join the kolkhozes. These huge cooperatives under party control. Against them, Stalin sends and requisition the crops. Their mission is to asphyxiate They have all the rights to collect supplies One of these policemen is Lev Kopelev. - "I took part in these expeditions probing the ground I emptied pantries by forcing myself and the moans of women. Everything was allowed. Destroy, lie, steal. The end justified the means. Our goal was triumph - 1933, the result. Stalin's requisitions This region, one of the richest in the 1920s under Lenin. Only this time the carnage takes A father writes to his son in Moscow. - &quot; My dear son, I am writing to teach you She died of starvation Myself, - Some party members that this famine They protest. - &quot;Did Comrade Stalin... Does any member of the Otherwise, A train loaded with corpses After picking up bodies throughout its journey. >> - In Moscow, Stalin decided He forbade the peasants to reach the big cities. He thus condemns to death It is one of the biggest long remained secret. At the same time, the french deputy at the invitation of the Soviet government. - &quot;I make ardent wishes for the prosperity of the Russian people. I hope my trip and for the peace of peoples. >> - French and the delegation that He is delighted with the trip. - "I crossed the Ukraine. I tell you that I saw it There are only vegetable gardens of kolkhozes When we support allow me to shrug my shoulders. >> - How could the Frenchman In fact the streets have been The workers he has We brought in food. Edouard Herriot In Moscow, Stalin no longer governs He gave a mission They no longer have to but as it should be. The harvest is bad. We film radiant peasants The industrial results are disappointing, fake numbers are published. We even invent heroes, like that famous miner, Stakhanov. During a competition, he smashed the productivity record extracting fourteen times This story is totally false. It makes it possible to deceive the Soviets. In reality, the USSR became Stalin's agents are everywhere. They control the whole society. They have the order to stop Everywhere, thousands of men, then embarked A child remembers. - &quot;How many days did the trip last?&quot; I've no idea. In the carriage, seven people died of starvation. When we arrived in Tomsk, they took us out Children, young people and the old. >> - They are directed to the gulag, real camps long before they appeared These prisoners are officially In reality, simple citizens, notables, religions that have nothing in the mold of the regime. They are mixed with common law. in the party, we call it rehabilitation Here the deviant spirits In fact, they are turned into slaves. In the camps of the Far North, A prisoner writes. - "It is dangerous to stop moving. I do not stop and clench your fists. Touching a metal tool - A political prisoner, Maria Yov is exhausted. - &quot; Our team Among these scarecrows, who will recognize the violinists, the harpists, the scientists ? We are in a constant state - August 2, 1933, an illustrious event That day, 200 kilometers of waterway which With simple pickaxes, 300,000 prisoners dug this canal. Exceptional fact, Stalin chose to move. He wants to make the channel that carries In theory, The construction time In fact, it is a new tragedy. 30,000 prisoners, i.e. one in ten, They died for nothing. It seems hard to believe, but to finish on time, Most boats Abroad, we are far from imagining Most western media, to burlesque. While everywhere this is how french news in Siberia. - &quot; In the old days, the tsar locked up there Now the government another destination to this place. We will now organize raising rabbits on a large scale under supervision - Every year, intoxicated by propaganda, delegations and in particular from France, the little father of the peoples. Despite Stalin's crimes, rallies like that of the writer Louis Aragon - &quot;The proletariat comes the rehabilitation of man by man. We are at a point in history from ape to man. >> - For the Bolshevik Party - Hooray. - Hip-hip-hip. - How to explain At the 1935 congress, leader of the Communist Party Stalin returned their pride - Understand comrades, during a moment, it happened that the communist workers in the factories, that they don't know how or such charges. There was a time when, they did not have the means to answer. There was no more harmony between them Now, they answer, They are seen in the factories. One says, These are the ones who organize We are sure of victory, because the helm of our ship of the greatest of pilots, - Blinded by his communist ideal, the French did not see or did not want to see that Stalin has already turned the page. That his only goal is now Stalin decided to liquidate the whole Remember, Lenin's funeral in 1924. Most of those who wore Kamenev and Zinoviev, executed. Tomsky, driven to suicide. Rykov, shot. Radek, assassinated. He seems to feel a certain - "Choose your victim, prepare carefully, wreak relentless vengeance and then go to bed. There is nothing sweeter in the world. >> - In 1938, he attacked his dear Bukharin. He is a friend of fifteen years. However, he dared To his eyes, he has become an enemy. To prepare for the fall he launches the steamroller - In all the countries, - These plots are committed with ferocity by capital agents by the dogs of fascism, - Comrades, what I have to Our country is surrounded by enemies. They want to destroy - Death to these enemies, - During this time, at the Lubyanka, Bukharin is tortured. In a letter, - &quot; I write you this letter, My heart bleeds that I am really guilty. I'm ready to drag myself to my knees If death awaits me I beg you in the name not to be shot. I want myself I beg you. >> - It's death On March 2, 1938, in a full room his trial begins. It's a formality. - Our people demand one thing, We must crush these accursed vermin! - Bukharin is in the dock, but there is nothing left He wasn't deemed docile enough He is shot The purges extend Stalin sees enemies everywhere. He became paranoid. Against those he suspects it encourages denunciation. In every town, we must be ready to denounce A young boy accuses. - "As a pioneer, My father acted in such a way I ask you, but as a pioneer to judge harshly, - Stalin has a henchman. Nikolai Yejov nicknamed the Nabot. He's the head of the secret police. - &quot;I may be short in stature, but my hands are strong. These are Stalin's hands. We launch an attack There will be innocent victims. When we cut down the forests, - Stalin fixed him As proof, this terrible document. On the first line, the name of the republics Then three columns of numbers, one for executions. Another for deportations. One last for the total. There is no name. It is up to the party leader to find A file taken at random from - Name, Sidorov. Heritage, a wooden house One cow, four sheep, two pigs. Indictment, Sidorov is ill-intentioned He said that Stalin but we can't talk about it Verdict, shoot Sidorov - It's called the Great Terror. Since the year 1937, Yezhov gets shot on average - Strike, exterminate without sorting. Better go - In full terror, life goes on At the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow, we play Tchaikovsky's Swan Lake. It's Stalin's favorite ballet. He never misses a performance. Nightly, he returns to the Kremlin to sign He sometimes adds comments. - Tighten the screw on this gentleman. Beat and beat again. The sharper the teeth, the better. - Terror eventually turns around Yezhov is accused and even erased official photos. In 1938, Stalin liquidated all He gradually replaced them by a new generation It is the nomenclature, the new men whose dreams They divided and they take advantage of the vacated apartments. On March 17, 1938, four days later many are those who go activists, civil servants, they are all there to welcome a plane through the North Pole. The greeting of the pilot, Chkalov, Stalin decided to do That day, in the streets of Moscow, - "I am ready to die for Stalin. If we have to give him our lungs, If we have to give him our heart, - At the same time, in Germany. The Nazi Party is in power He advocates superiority At its head, Chancellor Adolf Hitler, He has already annexed Austria. He wants to take over all He mainly dreams and annex its territory - "The mission of the Nazi movement Destroy Russia, will give whose master race My ambition is to be - Stalin was slow to realize the threat. The USSR is not ready for conflict. Its armament is outdated, its General Staff decimated. During the terror he did Members of the General Staff on this 1934 film, nothing remains but They don't understand Like the dashing Boudienny. - &quot;You won't make me change my mind. As soon as war breaks out, everyone will shout, - To catch up, In August 1939, he manages to get along with The two dictatorships sign only a few days An agreement against nature, with many ulterior motives, but which gives respite to Stalin. - &quot;It's all just a game You will see, Russia will succeed for a while longer. >> - Eight days later, It's the start of In a few weeks, The first victory of a long series. Eight months later, in May 1940, Hitler attacked from the west In half of Europe, military occupation, racial persecution and political repression. In the meantime, Thanks to the pact with Hitler, it appropriates new territories. In the winter of 1941, he still thinks he's safe He is wrong. This is the moment when Hitler the destruction of the Soviet Union. This is the Barbarossa plan, one of the biggest Hitler intends to overwhelm the Soviet army and reach Moscow From spring, the German army stands On the spot, Soviet generals They sound the alarm and ask In the Kremlin, Stalin, always - &quot;You have a big head, Germany will never launch - June 16, 1941, a russian spy transmits, Stalin persists. - "He is a disinformator. You can fuck him. >> - June 21, eve of the offensive. A German deserter crosses the border and warns that the attack Stalin's verdict, - "Shoot him. >> June 22, 1941, three million soldiers From the first hours, they destroy The Steamroller In a village, - "Thousands of our soldiers Our leaders are leaving. We are abandoned to death. >> - Stalin's own son, as he flees, In back, People don't understand However, she does not come. The Muscovites, like the young - "We are glued to the radio, we are waiting for Stalin's speech. We need to hear his voice, but he remains silent. It is Molotov, his deputy, who speaks. Everyone is listening. We are told that it is war. Where is Stalin? >> - Stalin is entrenched - &quot; All is lost. Lenin founded our state He left us and we screwed it up. >> - By his repeated mistakes, but he doesn't want to admit it. Like he usually does, These thousands of soldiers who surrender Their families will be deported. Against deserters he sends They are loaded He gives explicit orders. Within weeks, Stalin In Ukraine, it prohibits Five days later, nazis capture It's the biggest catch In October 1941, four months after the start Stalin almost lost the war. The German army is no more The capital is The population takes refuge in the metro. The writer Viktor Kravchenko - "Moscow gives the impression of dying. panic reigns and it circulates the noises Some say one shot and that Stalin was arrested. >> - In fact, Stalin himself It's here, while all his devotees took that he makes a decision Despite the danger, In few hours, November 7, 8 a.m., regiments join the place at Stalin's call. The tanks are coming The Germans can but Stalin's speech - &quot;Participants, partisans, the whole world is watching us The hordes of looters Death to the German occupation. Glory to our country, Coming to victory - In a few days, the Soviet army arrives It's only 10 months what will play out the most We are in Stalingrad. It's the turning point The Germans, who do not have conquer this waypoint They occupy 90% of the city. They still have a few left The Soviets oppose them Among them is the soldier Koseainov. - &quot;We hear footsteps I can't We shoot by judgement, by ear. My head is buzzing. >> - A total of two million men For the first time Stalin decided not to intervene General Zhukov. Zhukov wants to trap which they have just conquered. November 19, 1942, 7 am, 1400 tanks, more than 1000 planes and 1,000,000 Soviet soldiers These images filmed after the battle the junction of the two Russian armies. Few weeks later, ill-equipped and starving, Marshal von Paulus. It's the first time For Stalin, this is a miracle. Thanks to the sacrifice of these soldiers, it is he who first in the eyes It is he who launches Russian soldiers against Germany. Despite his crimes, despite his pact in 1939 with Hitler, Stalin has become unavoidable. In Moscow, during the visit of General de Gaulle, then a few months the allies all come Britain's Churchill toasts. - &quot;Stalin's life is for each of us. I sincerely hope that the people his marshal for a long time. >> - Churchill knows that the U.S.S.R. is in the process of That after months of counter-offensive, the Red Army will soon enter Berlin. Spring 1945, those terrifying weapons, Stalin's organs Stalin decided to avenge In the face of such firepower, Germany ends 2 months later, Generalissimo Stalin to celebrate his victory. In this famous propaganda film, we welcome the winner In fact, it's a fiction This masterful arrival Stalin is afraid of the plane and contrary to these images, he hates crowds. - Comrades, today we celebrate about fascist Germany. The real Stalin in the suburbs of Berlin, where 5,000 police are He is obsessed with attacks. If he agreed to leave his country is that the opportunity is worth it. He has a date around with its American allies Since the Yalta conference, it purely demands i.e. all countries Stalin's demand Soviet rule It will last nearly half a century. For Russians, the price The conflict wiped out 70,000 villages In the summer of 1945, the soldiers begin and prepare to reunite with their families. A soldier tells. - "People are screaming, they are running, Men kiss their wives. They take in their arms They proudly show - After so much suffering, For them, Stalin's crimes In Moscow, Stalin It's been over 20 years For the victory, we have him With thousands of extras. The American General Yet Stalin seems absent. His health is fragile. He has memory lapses. He had several heart attacks. Above all, he is a single man. During the war, prisoner of the Germans. It is said that Yakov sought Stalin had refused to exchange it as Hitler proposed. - &quot;If I had exchanged Yakov, what would they have said whose children If I had done that, - His private life is a disaster. He hardly sees anymore He became an alcoholic fly over red square More paranoid than ever, Stalin even got angry with Svetlana, his darling daughter become a young woman. He does not understand He does not accept especially those with whom he sent to the gulag. He also does not accept his marriage Hitler's winner - All previous generation - Now they are - As soon as the war was over, Stalin With two million prisoners, never has the gulag been so full. In France, communists who fought they continue to worship Stalin. In 1949, he celebrated his 70th birthday. From everywhere, we send As the poet Paul Eluard tells us. - "In this small workshop in Belleville, the workers spent 300 hours a gift to install. Their gift, a miniature lathe. >> - The Crimes of Stalin - &quot;We have not forgotten what One should understand Another man's son is The woman and the girl Without the Stalingrad victory, our village, Grigny, like all of France, Also, all of us, peasants of Grigny, and long life to Generalissimo Stalin - &quot;We wish long life to the guide to Stalin, - For his birthday, the man of peace summoned to In particular the Chinese Mao Tse tung. However, she is a little girl Her name is Natalia. She is the daughter of Poskrebychev, She got the honor - Live near us dear. Lead us by your lights for the Soviet regime to flourish and getting stronger every day. - The room applauds but the little girl A few years earlier, At 70, the little father of the peoples - &quot;What would you do without me?&quot; You are blind, little cats. You don't see the enemy. The country will die, because you March 4, 1953. This time, it is Stalin who has just died. No details in the logs. We will only know later. Stalin agonized alone with no one to help him. Not even his doctors, terrified at the thought of taking His body is on display where he had condemned Among party members, A teacher is struggling - What will happen now? How are we going to live? What will happen to the country? In Red Square, - Our master and guide, the greatest genius of all - Yet, despite away from the cameras, thousands of victims of Stalin At the Vorkuta camp, the deportees set themselves - &quot;May the devil take his soul.&quot; Thank God today the man with the mustache - During his reign, the man who had he caused death