I'm really excited to be here, among other things most beautiful places on the planet. but seriously: Seventeen Mile Drive is Sometimes I feel we spend too much time in the tent / So I'll try and keep this relatively short and talk to you Five years ago, I heard about The first time I heard about Bitcoin was I read an article about how gambling sites I'd been interested in cryptography and its application But I drifted away from that space. [Then] I heard about this Bitcoin thing and thought, That's the reaction pretty much everyone has. In fact Satoshi Nakamoto -- the creator of Bitcoin -- of their own creation. They weren't quite sure Pretty much everyone from that point on started off with: &quot;That's not going to work. That can't possibly work.&quot; That was my reaction too. (which I remember quite clearly) towards the end of 2012, the person who talked about it had introduced a link to the white paper that explained how it worked. I have a master's degree in distributed systems, which this paper. I started reading it thinking, 'Oh, let's see I thought, &quot;This is not what I thought [it was].&quot; my life had been firmly derailed completely. this was an extremely significant invention. In computer science and distributed systems, we study One of those is called the Byzantine Generals' Problem. It's a description of a certain type of problem that occurs between parties who don't trust each other on a network How do you coordinate if you can't trust As with many problems in computer science, it is It is surrounded by four generals. These generals because in order to communicate with each other they where the city is. so they can't tell if their message has been received. They can't coordinate. What they're trying to do is If only one of them attacks, they lose. but they can't communicate that [to] each other It's not a problem you can solve with encryption, In distributed systems, it's about This problem [affects] many areas of computer science and distributed systems. It has to do with, for example, All kinds of synchronization [activities] in because in the absence of a solution, the only way to coordinate is via central authority. One of the things I understood by paying attention to was that the biggest problem digital, They had either an issuer or a central clearinghouse that but also that a transaction which had occurred In a digital domain, where you can copy digital how do you create scarcity? 'Scarcity' meaning something that is rare and cannot be copied. In terms of digital currencies, if I pull a $50 bill out of my pocket and spend it, But if it is a digital files, a copy is perfect, The only way to solve this was to have a central authority. Lots of people tried that. They built servers and systems that, every day, One of the first interesting applications of this They created one of the first digital currencies. If you suddenly announced to the world, &quot;Hey, you know that thing [under] the that is the basis of control and power for every nation-state out there? I'm going to do it in my company! For free! We're going to run a completely parallel Well, what happens next is the nation-state comes along And they shut down the central system. it's going to be squashed, sued, bought, and this kept happening to digital currencies. &quot;This person has solved Byzantine fault tolerance. They've solved the Byzantine Generals' Problem.&quot; There are other solutions out there, but they're not efficient. This is actually a practical solution. With this solution, we can have a digital With a digital currency without a central point, there's nothing to shut down. If there's nothing to shut down... Oh dear, this might actually work. The next four months are a bit hazy. I [would become] obsessed about technologies. where I would get so caught up with excitement, enthusiasm, passion, and focus on a specific problem that I would lose the world. Or the world would lose me, I would disappear off into my corner. It happened to me I started to learn how to program, programming blew my mind, and I disappeared for six months. I emerged a year later and I could program in assembly (asm) and BASIC. I could do electronics, things like that. Then I got my first Then I got my first modem, and I disappeared for a full In 1989, I got access to an internet account; not strictly legally, because I was 15 [year old] and they don't give academic access, to what was Let's say this archaeology professor at a university The statute of limitation I lost myself because, for the first time ever, I could on this internet thing. They taught me UNIX, all kinds of I lost myself for a year and a half. Every time this &quot;Listen, this is the greatest thing that's ever happened. Imagine a 15-year-old in Greece, a country that &quot;Listen to me! Everyone will be online!&quot; The response and stop playing on that bloody computer!&quot; When this happened to me with Bitcoin, at this point I I decided I wasn't gonna listen to anyone who told me otherwise. But I did lose myself. Four months went by. I dropped all of my work. All I did was read code and write, [for] eighteen hours [every day] until I dropped. Then I got up the next day, ...and did it again. I lost 26 pounds. They brought me these protein shakes Because they were worried. [But] I came out of that to explain to the world what this At first glance, you may think this is an investment If you looked at the early internet and [decided], &quot;We can We can change history. These technologies offer an opportunity of an opportunity for connection, just like These new technologies -- cryptocurrencies, digital give us an opportunity to create a fully interconnected completely flat, that discards Some of you probably work in some of those trappings because banking has a few centuries of It has never faced competition from the internet. It's just the first one and it's going to It's going to disrupt it more radically than most What is this technology? What is it all about? you can create transactions and record 'facts' without even having to trust On the same level, peer-to-peer, equal basis You shift trust from being [hierarchical], bureaucratic governance systems -- one of its emergent properties. Just like the internet has communication Once you do that, you don't need the hierarchy Institutions replaced by networks. You may have heard that happen before, We're all experiencing this great transformation year by year, decade by decade, we're watching great These flat networks deliver in a more open and accessible manner, the same thing We've seen this happen to the august institutions the movie companies, the music companies. One by one, they have faced where it is no longer profitable or even tenable to be Because 'others' can find each other What happens when that is translated into finance, What happens when we start considering rebuilding based on networked, market-based governance models, If all you are looking at is the price of bitcoin, coming from the media from every side, The fundamental point being: this is a new platform for trust that is global, open, completely borderless and egalitarian. Currency is only the first application on this It is a full-blown platform for trust. &quot;Drug dealers / criminals / pornographers If you've been around the internet for a while, I remember it clearly, in the beginning of the internet is about fraudsters, thieves, pornographers, Yet it didn't matter because, eventually, all of us We didn't use it to make pornography. We used it Because they're cute and hilarious. They project their own needs, their own using technology as this empowering tool. Feeding our families. Security. Education. Healthcare. When you hear all of these scare stories about how allowing them to pay anyone anywhere without censorship or control, freeing them completely from the shackles of oppressive governments that in many countries are very hard to What happens when people The ability to transact freely with anyone in the world? Do they buy weapons of mass destruction? They buy healthcare, they buy food, they buy education, Within this technology, there is this enormous promise but the internet first, and then transforming some of the fundamental institutions in the world that have failed us. When I talk to audiences around the world about places like this -- there is a bit of confusion. I have VISA. How is this different from PayPal? Does it make it easier to buy coffee at Starbucks? That's a fair question, because the only fundamental is the fact that it's all of that without the PayPal, without That's meaningful if you can't trust the company. PayPal has service in 19 countries. Last I checked, there's 194. Banking is available to maybe 4 billion people. Two-and-a-half billion people around the world That's the World Bank statistic which Their children, their spouses are a statistical irrelevance. If you add up all of the people who have they are the majority of this world. Bitcoin and these You have VISA? Good for you! [You're] part of the 5% The rest of the world doesn't operate that way. You have stable currency? Fantastic. I can count sixteen of them. What about the other hundred and sixty currencies? out of your bed at night because you said the wrong thing or attended the wrong protest yet? Good for you! Fantastic. What about all of those places We live in a world where access to financial services is We have constructed a system, If you're in the industry, Know-your-customer (KYC), anti-money laundering (AML), control of terrorist financing (CTF). You've heard those acronyms? What those acronyms do, to maintain our own bourgeois illusion that somehow we who has access to financial services. In that delusion, we are willing to allow billions of people Bitcoin is the radical proposition that anyone anywhere For many people in the world, For many governments in the world, I'm here to tell you that it's going to be okay. It really is. to do these things, they will use them to do good. Even if you're afraid, even if you think we This technology is a system It is now known anyone anywhere in the world can go which is for software engineers, for free. A fairly talented 14-year-old programmer could recreate that's even better than most of what bitcoin does today This is now the world we live in. We cannot unlearn this technology. So now we have to consider, how do we live in a world where anyone anywhere can engage in commerce with anyone anywhere, and those transactions cannot Because it's completely flat, completely decentralized, This technology has taken money from its physical manifestation, or its centralized implementation as a digital abstract token, and it has I can do a bitcoin transaction using the Bitcoin network, translate it into emojis, and then transmit that using Skype or Facebook, or put it in a Craigslist ad. How do you stop that? You don't. I think it's a brave world. But what I do know is that it will be a different world. The You are among the tiny percentage of What would you have done if you learned How would it have changed your life, your career, You now know. What will you do about it?