This is no ordinary rocket engine. Limited by the technology of their times engineers method for centuries, but the constraints revolutionary test of this rotating detonation With the very latest advances in material NASA has managed to break through to test fuel efficiencies of rockets by up to 5%. [1] A 5% improvement in fuel efficiency for a Rocket weights are dominated by fuel. The 1st stage Saturn V had a dry mass of 137,000 its weight was 2.2 million kilograms. The first stage was 94% fuel. A 5% increase in fuel efficiency represents That's not far off the total dry weight [2] This does not just provide cost savings. It represents a drastic change in capabilities Allowing humans to launch larger payloads This latest test of the technology saw the duration of 113s seconds per run. [3] This was a test, and the engine is not ready of decades of research, enabled by newly developed very latest advances in computational fluid Let's delve into the science and engineering how they work. Engines powered by detonations are not a new The Air Force Research Laboratory developed Powered by 4 tubes in which the detonations Traditional rocket engines work by mixing With the ignitor typically located at the needs to travel through the fuel mixture to If the speed of this flame front is below deflagration. If the "flame front" travels through the called detonation. Almost all combustion engines work with deflagrations, engines use a supersonic flame front to produce for the same volume of fuel. However, this is easier said than done. The energy needed to initiate a detonation engines used on the Air Forces test vehicle, of times a second. We can initiate a normal deflagration combustion and with some encouragement will transition totally understood and are not always reliably We know that detonations happen more often conditions, pulsed detonation engines often One method to achieve this is by placing a [4] Pulsed detonation has a more obvious problem. They don't provide constant thrust. They pulse. Rotating detonation engines are the solution They consist of a ring shaped combustion chamber. The process starts by opening a valve at one the tube. The valve closes and an ignition source at begins. A shockwave begins to travel around the circumference temperature of the gas behind it almost instantaneously. This gas then expands and leaves the tube This cycle then repeats with the shockwave This clever arrangement solves the major problems only set off the detonation once, it eliminates of detonations a second and its continual in consistent thrust. Keep in mind these detonation fronts are going fuel mixture. This means that the waves complete a full ranges between 1 to 10 kHz [5]. This is an incredibly difficult phenomenon Detonations release energy very quickly, are In fact, for the last century of aerospace hard to prevent detonations in their rocket During the development of the F1 engine in to control what they called "thermodynamic These were in fact detonations that were destroying On June 28th 1962 these combustion instabilities during testing. This problem was plaguing the engineers of challenge they faced in scaling this monstrous A list of 18 potential sources of the instability This was an incredibly complex and dynamic One method to reduce instabilities and to the side walls, like a sound wave, was to chamber radially. Several iterations of baffles were designed, the engineers of the F1 engine turned to the They set off tiny bombs inside the combustion small combustion instabilities. The combustion chamber bomb was attached to the combustion zone. The detonator was encased in nylon that would time, allowing the engine to reach full operation Resulting in a pressure wave that traveled would. The engineers could test the effectiveness took for normal operation to resume after These baffles effectively acted as acoustic sound treated rooms. For decades engineers have been working to But engineers and scientists are stubborn When they hear "uncontrollable" all they And rotating detonation engines effectively were trying to prevent, allowing a traveling ring shaped combustion chamber. The appeal of using detonations as a combustion makes them dangerous, their quick release We can visualize the amount of energy we can of a hypothetical detonation engine and a chart. This chart simply plots the pressure and volume In a gas turbine, the air enters the engine A compressor decreases its volume at a constant It then moves to the combustor where heat Then the gas passes through a turbine as it The energy we extracted can be found by finding In a detonation cycle we skip the combustor wave increases the pressure of the gas almost Spiking it much higher. This creates a much larger area inside the The theoretical differences in thermodynamic immense. Using hydrogen as our gas, a gas turbine engine a detonation engine has a thermodynamic efficiency Simply, this means that more energy is extracted However, an increase in energy yield is of it simply destroys our engine. To harness his energy we needed to develop This is where a new material, specially developed Data sheet on table GRCOP-42. A nasa developed alloy made up of niobium, A high strength metal alloy specially formulated but a high thermal conductivity. Meaning it takes more energy to melt it and to prevent itself from melting, and critically, of using it metallic 3D printing, meaning with this new age material. Maintaining this reaction is incredibly difficult. The shockwave, by nature, is traveling incredibly and pressure. Take the injectors. They have to be designed to handle not only pressure and temperature. As the shockwave travels by condition change to 2 megapascals of pressure and 3000 kelvin. That cycle happens one thousand times per Our copper based alloy can help us dissipate from injecting gas to resisting the pressure To manufacture an inlet capable of handling A typically machined injector may look something detonation engine need to handle back flow, which would be impossible to manufacture with The shape of this passage allows fuel to flow to travel in the opposite direction it impinges Effectively it's a valve with no moving A perfect solution for this application. [8] The use of metal 3d printing doesn't stop Every part of the rotating detonation engine of detonation. From the combustion chamber design to ensure cooling channels running through its walls. The rotating detonation engine that NASA developed actively cooled using Deionized water.[3] It also features an aerospike nozzle. Aerospike nozzles are kinda like inside-out Instead of the traditional bell shaped nozzle, Aerospike nozzles allow the rocket to operate To understand why, we need to cover some basics The bell nozzle operates optimally at a certain To work at its most efficient we want the the external atmospheric pressure. If the external pressure is higher than the the overexpanded condition. Flow separation from the nozzle occurs and If the external pressure is lower than the the underexpanded condition, the gas expands is lost. However if we match the exit pressure and velocity is maximized, making our engine more We could fit rockets with variable geometry add a lot of weight, complexity and cost. These nozzles are a lot bigger than fighter [9] Aerospikes provide a lighter simpler alternative Here the shape of the exhaust is dictated At higher pressures, at lower altitudes, the which redirects the exhaust to point straight No flow separation can occur as the pressure As pressure lowers this expansion continues, to external pressure changes. The exact science of these aerospike nozzles a video entirely dedicated to them alone. But they are uniquely suited to rotating detonation cone design, requires a circular combustion also requires. However these is a more important reason, need a consistent chamber pressure in order rotating detonation engine the chamber pressure of the combustion chamber. The aerospike's ability to adapt to external to internal chamber pressure changes. [10] There is a lot more to do to make rotating These prototypes, while promising, struggle thrust. In 2021, Japan tested a rotating detonation producing 500 Newtons of thrust, and while way from the millions of Newtons traditional The mechanics of detonations are still not This means that maintaining a stable detonation The system is inherently chaotic. Engineers are fighting against entropy to With each revolution of the shockwave more A single vortex on revolution one can cause completely unstable by rotation 20. NASA even stated that their tests sometimes waves in the combustion chamber at once.[12] This NASA test was a huge milestone for the They demonstrated that their copper based enough in this environment with their longest to successfully initiate the detonation front The biggest challenge facing engineers of models to predict these instabilities and combustion instabilities, just as the engineers in the 1960s. The next real engineering video is ready right It's about the M1 Abrams. We detail it's unique turbine engine, an used in this heavy armored vehicle for 2 special We dig into how the armor of the M1 has evolved It will be available on YouTube in 2 weeks, on Nebula, as a thank you to our show's supporters. Here's a rapid fire list of incredible features 50 a month. Ad free videos Exclusive behind the scenes of our documentaries, Documentary all your favorite creators. I know they are your favorite, because it my analytics. We got Mustard, Wendover Productions, Practical And here's the incredible thing , by signing me. You are supporting educational creators across of this platform. We created it to give us creative freedom, Nebula is the lifeblood of our channel. As sponsors and ad revenues have dropped off team of writers, animators and editors across myself, can feel secure in uncertain financial Real Engineering started with just me. I barely knew how to animate. I just had a dream of recreating the magic growing up, but for engineering. Over the past 6 years I have continually reinvested make this channel possible. Mike, Dylan, Stephanie, Eli, Kirtan, Lorraine, This channel is not just me. It's a group of dedicated people that you, If you want to see Real Engineering continue this is how you support that mission. 2 dollars 50 a month for the annual plan, boot.