Young people are facing a serious debt Between 2022 and 2023, Boomers in debt year over year, But Millennials saw their average debt and Gen Z more than 15%. Many young adults are finding themselves This credit card concern Young people today are being shut So how much worse off And how did it get so bad? I am in debt for education. Oh my God, Doom spending. I start getting overwhelmed about, okay, If you ask me how I would describe my Very broke. The minimum wage is so low I don't feel like wages Do I feel like my income has kept up and cost of living in general? I now make probably just a little bit more than I did Meaning like my income has not gone up degree now. Meet Shaheem, The difference between Gen Z, Millennials they had a lot more opportunity because their wages kind of matched up They're not wrong. Younger people today are making less Adjusting in 2013 were making almost $52,000 a year. That number today down to $45,000. And that difference puts Gen In 2013, the debt to income ratio Today, it's more than 16%. Technically, younger generations than any other generation did. But when you adjust for inflation, to the cost of everything else And from 2021 to 2022, for those aged 35 to 44, median income fell .8%, compared to a 0.6% drop for those aged 25 to 34. But for the 15 to 24 year olds, median income fell 5.8%. That means the youngest generation saw the most significant drop in median income Emotionally, about my wages and income, I cannot tell you how much anxiety I don't have a safety net. I don't have anybody financially I don't have a support system. I don't have anybody to go to And that is anxiety inducing. The gap between wages and cost of living to increasingly turn to credit cards Last year, the average credit card higher than the balance Millennials Not only is Gen Z racking up credit card but 1 in 7 Gen Z credit card In this period of high inflation, the lifestyles that they've always had, Increasingly, with another big challenge Rising housing costs. What I'm more worried about after The market right now is kind of scary. There's no way I could own a home. That's like a far fetched dream. The cost of, like, homes has just changed It's, like, really hard to even rent. The older generations just do not have a realistic view They grew up in a time period You could like work a 9 to 5 And over time, you'll be able to save up That's not the standard anymore. The landscape for housing, looks very different Thanks to soaring prices and high interest rates. Older generations, still make up the majority share of home The barrier You have to have a bigger down payment because the median value of a home is over At the same time, And so taken altogether, and a lot longer to be able to buy, For renters, it's also troubling. Rents while wages across the country You know, housing costs are just taking up The rent goes up every year. The wages do not. Depending on the month, it can be upwards Between housing being so expensive the debt crisis for younger But for many, including Shaheem, obstacle looming over them. If I had to say which debt scares me It is hands down my student loans. My tuition is around $90,000 a year, You meet someone from another country Like, that's a lot of money. I don't know the balance. Last time I checked, One of the biggest debt burdens and one of the first debts More than ever before, the very thing their future is one of the biggest reasons We're seeing college enrollment levels are trying to be smarter about, Some are living at home. Some are forgoing college altogether. Let's look at the average when a year's tuition cost around $1,300. In 2020, public university Of course, But when we adjust for inflation, in 1970 was only around $10,000. Less than half of today's cost. When we look at the cost of private a huge jump, too, to less than $21,000 in 1970. Those really high student debt level We are seeing, a mass kind And, you know, degree used to be so intertwined And some young people are rejecting that. In one poll, more than half of those who loan debt has caused them to put off I grew up in abject poverty. I went to school. I graduated, that I should This massive burden combined with others paints But there's a fourth, lesser known reason It's called doom spending. Doom spending. Doom spending to cope with the stress. Home ownership I think that people that'll bring us a semblance Doom spending, I love it. It kind of makes us, you know, feel So if it's going to be like this I might as well get something for myself For me, It does alleviate some of the stress. Doom spending is like retail therapy A lot of people feel hopeless or and that's manifesting Some people turn to doom spending. And this consumer habit So in one of my research papers, why do people not save enough That's Stephen Wolff, an economics And there have been many explanations Sometimes people lack the information Some people might lack self-control They may know that they should save, And I introduce another phenomenon people are fatalistic. They think that whatever they do doesn't Professor Wu's study found that tendencies, believe they have little So that may lead to individuals to just why worry about saving now? Because even if I do save, I may still Instead of saving, many are splurging on luxury goods And while 27% of Americans of all ages higher among Gen Z and Millennials Well, I believe that people do it Younger generations are also growing up in an online People want this kind of TikTok, Instagram Never before have young people been "Partner with L'Oreal Paris to show you-" Where people kind of what they want their lives And those things cost more. And the rise of buy now, pay later Today younger people have Venmo, they have buy now, pay later. They have earned wage access. They have cash advance It's so easy to lose So what does the future of this ballooning Many are looking to the government But young people would need change to truly lessen the burden of debt. The emotional toll on younger people There is a lot of uncertainty, and I think When those generations get older, they may Younger generations face economic headwinds of their time to achieve the same lifestyle