Good afternoon, everybody. So up first, we have Dr. Eric Verdin. He is the president and CEO of the Buck He's also a professor at the Leonard Davis at the University of Southern California. Last but not least, he's a professor San Francisco. Welcome, Dr. Verdin. Good afternoon, Villagers. I want to start by thanking Aviv Clinics I think there's nothing meet and present the work that we're doing I also want to congratulate you As you will see, lifespan, healthspan is all about taking care of your own health. And this is going to be that I'm going to be sharing with you. And by being here, you're already showing and at least a critical step and So let me start by asking you a question who wants to live to 100? Okay, but it's high. But it's a it's not everybody. And I think it's going to be an important to this question later and decide, in the way you did? I have organized my presentation And I think this is I want to share with you growing revolution in our understanding And we lie right now at a critical point of work, we have redefined what aging is And I think this revolution is slowly the realm of clinical medicine. And Aviv Clinic is a good example of this. And therefore, one of the messages is to do everything to be able which will really change in a dramatic So for breakthroughs, I'm going to be sharing with you of what aging research is today The first finding is and that's an amazing 25. 30 years ago, this was thought impossible we really have been able to identify within the organism that we can trigger intervention or through a drug This happens in animal models. And I'm going to give you a first example which is actually almost 100 years old, whereby we can study And what I'm showing you here So we starting with 100 animals are on As the animals die, the curve goes down. And you can see in orange, non-CR is against their own. So apologies. Thank you. Thank you for keeping me on track. You can see in the top left arm, As these animals die. Look at the line on C.R. They progressively die. And by the time they reach 36 months, All of other mice Now, suppose you take these mice and measure of how much they're eating individually, They're eating as much as they want. The food is always available. What we do with them that they have available by 25%. You can see the curve What this means is now But look at what happens The mice are living almost twice as long. So this is actually pretty amazing potential Now, calorie restriction as you can There's a there's a calorie restriction So some older people to go on calorie restriction. And it's very hard. I've met many of these people some colleagues told me one time that this might not make you live forever, but it will certainly feel that way. And so we don't recommend this as an intervention, to see what happens to these individuals So this is the type of intervention not to use all of the modern tools that we do in the lab within the cells and within the organism there's less food and to and to transform And so these are the types of experiment I'm showing you a little worm. C elegans, it lives 21 days. The fruit fly Drosophila, And then mice, as I mentioned Now we can we have a calorie restriction So we can again, using all of the tools and modern biology, This is certainly a series of molecules If you remove them and you put these animal on calorie And so we and many others in the field And this is what we found. Now, this looks very complicated, but I want to point out a few critical points. You probably will notice in every one of the organisms We have identified pathways and molecules between all of these organisms, indicating that the regulation of aging from the little lonely worm We also have TOR. You have TOR in every one of your cells. That's one finding. So aging pathways are conserved and they function The second finding is, TOR is named TOR And rapamycin is actually a drug And the implication is that, if you put at any they live longer up to 20 and 30%. So these are animals now We don't change anything else to their But simply by taking this drug, Remarkable finding. And today, after mice more than 100 interventions Many of these interventions pointed Some of them are already in the clinic. Metformin, a number of you who are on glucophage. Glucophage, Metformin is a drug that it seems Acarbose is another drug in the clinic and there's a whole series of them, moving from the early lonely models I should say also that none of those but the efforts are ongoing 5 to 10 years we will have the first drug that will delay aging. So think about this and think about it, Breakthrough Number two is, is the realization factor for what we call non-communicable disease. If you think about in 1900s, actually, from infectious diseases, All of these infectious diseases vaccination by a whole series and you will recognize them. Atherosclerosis, heart attack, stroke, Many forms of cancer are linked to aging, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, knee pain, hearing loss, sarcopenia, Alzheimer, Parkinson, type two diabetes. How much fun it is to get old So why I ask you the question A significant I do want to, but I would say pretty much And I suspect and ask you, who wants to live to 100? Not afflicted by all of these conditions, Yeah. So that that is the key thing Aging is associated with diseases in a way you reach 65, 70% of from one of these conditions About most of the people So we associate aging with disease We've seen our parents, our friends suffer And in some way they really color Aging is debilitating, Now, what I want to point out to you with the animals, the equation These animals not only live longer, And we also know in our midst not only to a hundred, being sick typically So your typical centenarians afflicted by these conditions versus about 15% of their life, 65 to about 78, 80. So and their lives really People talk about longevity. Some of my more crazy colleagues and living to 150 or living to 200. Frankly, I think it's all nonsense. And this is not what I'm working on. I'm working on really improving the that we all live today. And I will make the point later if you were to optimize everything and could be expected Now think about this and think about what Now, breakthrough number three is, this will lead So think about how medicine works today. We call it health It's sick care, medicine is focused on. I'm really treating you when you are ill. Medicine does very little prevention. It's organ based. You go see a cardiologist, Each of these doctors is talking to you And you've all experienced this. It's reactive, that is, we wait And medicine does an amazing job at this. I don't want to diminish We manage disease and we pretty much give If you have high cholesterol, Even though we know that only one out of 20 people who are on Now, what is the vision Think about a true health care system Remember TOR. TOR is not just in the heart It's in every cell in your body. So when you get rapamycin, rapamycin will affect the activity of TOR So you will prevent disease It's also proactive and preventative. That is, we instead of waiting for you to actually be afflicted by a disease, And finally, it is personalized. And this is using the new tools So life, the last question is what drives aging? Is it genes or lifestyle? You probably have in the back of your mind a thought that, well, So, you know, I should probably prepare And a lot of people actually do group of people who say, no, my lifestyle So let me ask again another question. If you were to decide your genes about which you cannot do anything, That's going to be the major determinant So first, the genes, the gene believers. Okay, who believes it is 50/50? Okay. And the rest, I guess, who believes it is lifestyle. Okay. Well, I'm about to surprise you. 93% non-genetics. Lifestyle. meaning that your longevity, your lifespan is going to be determined Now, the other thing Even late stage interventions have very powerful effect So I'm sorry, Now, what is lifestyle? And this is what I'm going to finish And look at this and these five pillars of aging. You probably know about them, And I suspect many of you as retirees are But I believe there's also an enormous gap that actually works and what people indeed And this is really what and many of our colleagues, which one of all these interventions So what are they on the left? Nutrition. What you eat, when you eat. Everybody knows about this. But you know, There's a lot to be learned. Second one is physical activity, is the greatest anti-aging medicine and that we're going to have Next one is our sleep. Probably one of the most important ones that you can optimize. you know, managing your stress The fourth one is what we call is human connection. And believe it or not, of your life expectancy as a community, that you have a lot of friends, socially is the strongest predictor This is what the data says. Now, unfortunately, I don't know how mice are feeling (laughter), But we know, for example, by themselves versus four or five or how That's been shown in many species and there are a lot of peoples But it's not only the sense of purpose. What are you here for? Are you are service to your family, to These are all sort of very hard to study, Last one, last bucket And the drugs are not here. And I think I want to be totally honest, some people have already started to take metformin, You'll hear about this Barzilai later. These are not proven. And so, in terms of whether they are wanting to go But I can tell you the answers So the idea that I really want to look at these four buckets on the left with all of the intention that you have, the drugs will come in the future So every time I give a talk, people say, well, What am I supposed to do? What can I do today Now, let's start by the the worrying and the sad news today in the US, we have a shorter life expectancy any other high income countries, And so on. And paradoxically, we spend most in the world on health care Let me show you what it looks like. So this is the life expectancy in the US. You can see we've been lagging for a while and this has been even further You can see the really rapid where most Western countries Now, I want to congratulate you for living in Florida, because I live in You live in Florida. You can see there's incredible disparity expectancy in this country, But we can also see this, If you do the same study in Glasgow, and in Cleveland, code where In fact, predictor of your life expectancy, paradoxically, which means, you know, in a more educated, wealthy community, You have access to organic food You know, in an urban ghetto to no vegetables, where you're working three jobs and so on. So it just makes a lot of sense. And I can say I have not seen the data but I'm almost ready to predict Now, I've made the point earlier that most of you today could expect to live to 90, 95 in good health. And I'm able to say this is that we know they are communities in the US today that lift average life expectancy is 88 next to where I live is a town called Ross And I can tell you that when I go to this Not everybody has a perfect diet. I mean, obviously, as a wealthy community, other areas. But 88 Hence the prediction that 95 is not So I want to review a because you're still wondering. Each of you. Okay, I won't be able, to go through everything But I want to give you at least a framework about your own longevity This is a study that was published in the Journal of the American Heart of healthy lifestyle factors, I exercise, but I like my alcohol And so what is the effect So what is the relative impact So this is what the study did. They looked at a number of healthy and measured their effect on life And this was actually done by combining something called the Nurses' Health Study follow up study. 123,000 people were studied in this. They were all sent questionnaires So there are some variables I think it's a pretty strong indication in the field of preventative health. So the conclusion of that paper is that what they recognize, for increasing your life expectancy They identified a number of low risk, low risk lifestyle factors that actually Some of them are completely obvious, Regular exercise. Again, you will have ever, Moderate alcohol consumption. I usually hate to bring this up to people. We have been sold the myth that alcohol The only thing I have to say regarding that many of these studies were supported And so you draw your own conclusion, in front of audiences like this Remember how we were sort of delusional meant in the 70s or 60s? And then we had a movement essentially And, you know, cancer rates went down The same thing will happen with alcohol. And I think I am not recommending but I'm certainly discouraging them that it will improve their health. It will not, and increases cancer pretty much every complication And the people who don't drink but I drink in moderation maybe one or two glasses a week. That's and I feel a lot better. My sleep is much better. I feel stronger, So take this one home and think about it. No smoking. That's a no brainer. High quality diet. I'll say a few words about this. And a healthy weight were the really the key low risk lifestyle factors. Regular exercise, again, the data I just want you for every one of them what's happening here on the left between for more than five and a half hours gain an extra eight years of life, three and a half hours a week, So there's a lot of diminishing return. Once you reach a certain peak of exercise, You can do it because you like it. But in terms of if you want to get three and a half hours As retirees, I would I would venture to say that you at least So, I do exercise an hour, an hour And frankly, it's not only thinking about longevity It suppresses depression and it does everything that you can And this is true for females and males. So remember that 15 minutes of walking in the morning that you would all commit to me This is something that has changed. And if you don't do it which is become significant, join a gym class, do water aquatics. There's so many ways to exercise, is the basis of healthy longevity. No smoking, no smoking period. That's an obvious one. If you are a smoker, you lose. You can lose up to And that should be a no brainer. High quality diets. Again, people here running out of time, the things that you should really be five servings of vegetables per day, extra serving of green leafy vegetable. Skip the French fries. Doesn't mean you can not-- I'm against any absolutist I don't support the vegetarianism The question is there I'm Belgian, by the way, originally And it's a really-- for those of you who travel to Belgium, And it's impossible for me to imagine life from time to time. And I suspect Just don't eat them every day. And if you eat in them twice a week, eat them once a week So four servings of fruits This is one of the biggest That fruit juice is healthy. Fruit juice is like Coca-Cola. Again, there's no difference not healthy and you should never certainly Second thing that I hope will change, 15 minutes no fruit juice Eat fruits. Totally different . Eat an orange the juice comes the same same amount of juice is actually present When you chew on an orange, these little cells You don't break all of them. The rest goes into your stomach, That means the sugar from the fruit sort of drips into your bloodstream And therein lies the key five or six servings of whole grain. per day, one serving of protein from nuts, legumes and add healthy fats Skip the butter. It depends what kind of butter, these healthy oils and avoid seed oils. You're probably have heard You can read more about it online. Again, moderate alcohol consumption. I've said already alcohol should be a special treat, Not certainly not every day. I don't find it healthy or helpful which is going to happen as a function of If you're eating regularly and vegetables, very hard to gain weight, Now, here's the most important slide, okay, this is nice, but I do one of these I drink Is that the fact that these interventions So and this is shown here, each of these lower risk risk life factors counts for one. And what you can see here, you get to 14 years of extra life And so the framework that I would like I think about for my own health, So I have a bucket for nutrition, the same way It doesn't mean that I have to be perfect I put something in an account or a bucket, And since we know they work together, the better you will do. So as you go through your day think about these five different making one change every day about the way I guarantee you you will start feeling better If you're doing all of this already. You didn't even need to come today. So all of the advice, it basically adds up. Adherence to a low risk lifestyle This could prolong 50 by close to 14 years And again, we'll be back next year. I think our work with the Aviv Clinics, bringing this type of revolution And hopefully next year I can about nutrition or all about exercise you know, form of exercise is better. There is, this is the Last point that I'll make. Since I have 29 seconds, Actually, I'm already over. So I will wrap up and I will thank you