Welcome to Good Mythical More. Stevie's gonna present us with But is it a real fact Uh huh. - [Stevie] And all the Mythical Snyder's pretzels. They're great, aren't they? They're so good. I mean, like, that's It's one of the best snacks. Isn't it one of - [Stevie] I mean, the honey Oh. Try that ranch. - [Stevie] You really gotta You gotta watch it get better Yep. Freeze frame. ((Dramatic Music)) I'm really, I'm really in the Swiss Alps inside Like. It's a pretty Could, I mean, that might best Wheel of Mythicality video. It's beautiful. That might be the one that Jealous? Jealous. I'm like, Ahoy, I'm in Burbank. Ahoy. - [Stevie] In a fondue Yeah. Yeah. Not the same. I mean, it'll probably happen. Not the same. - [Stevie] Your first pretzel fact. Yeah. - [Stevie] Pretzels without salt Baldies? Baldies. Well, they're called bad A baldie. Give me a baldie. I like that. I like that. It does seem true. Maybe, they might be Cause they're, they - [Stevie] Skin. Skin. - [Stevie] It's true. It's true. It's true. Baldies. Now. Goldies? I never got soft pretzels, be honest with you. Maybe you relate to this. Stevie, you might as well, same place that we're from. I don't know if it's some point, because my you know, just like I do. And, and I just had this pretzels were for Yankees. - [Stevie] Yankees? Yeah. Yeah. Pretzels are for Yankees. Pretzels are for Yankees. Bagels are for Yankees. Definitely. He never said that. But I don't think, for some pretzel at, like, the mall. It's Yankee food. You know, I don't, he sounded like the kind of And so, I developed this. Is that crazy? It doesn't seem like Because it is kind of like midwestern sort of like where know, settling or something. Like a midwestern It feels Yankee and, Am I wrong about this? - [Stevie] I guess you like a hot dog too. Right. - [Stevie] You know? Hot dogs are for Yankees. But we've like fully embraced and made them like, there's But like, you know, - [Stevie] Well, no, at Four Seasons Wetzel's or an Annie's? It was always there, yeah. Did you, did you get them? - [Stevie] No, because presented I would never choose Right, because it was? - [Stevie] For Yankees? For Yankees. - [Stevie] Also, it was, I the, scarier area. The scarier area. The scary part of the mall. One of the four floors. - [Stevie] Yeah. Well. Yeah. Stevie grew up She worked there. She built bears. Eventually she - [Stevie] Yep. You built bears. Now I did recently, well ago, I went to the mall. Build-A-Bear? I was reminded that I don't But I did get, I did I was with my nieces, and pretzels, and we got up there, A sack? Of a cinnamon and sugar. Ooh, twists! No, it was just like, Balls. Balls. Balls. It was like chopped Oh, those are good. Did you taste one? That was so good. You tasted one. I ate the majority of the bag. That's the way to go, I think. - [Stevie] Oh, I don't remember those It's interesting they don't It's basically like Munchkins. You could do the Those pieces could That could be one of the ones. They should do that, Snyder. Come back to shore And come up with a new flavor. Let's hear another. - [Stevie] In 2002, Wetzel's Pretzels did sold edible pretzel purses Edible pretzel. Two-thousand and what? - [Stevie] Two. Purses? People didn't do that It's pre web, is what People didn't do That's a good point. Cause who are you You gonna put it in the paper? You might put it in Yeah. I don't know, it might Yeah, too early. Too early. - [Stevie] You got it. Thank you, Rhett. Now people just do You know? That's what the No. They used to do Now they do things For the clicks. - [Stevie] I also didn't look at, like, the don't remember pretzel bites And the next fact was that was my bad, really. Ooh. Ooh. Let's hear it. - [Stevie] The average Philadelphian of pretzels per year. See, it's kind Yeah. Yeah. 12 pounds on average? There's, okay, first of all, like. There's no way, right? Let me do some math here. One pretzel at a pretzel stand. Is not a pound. Is not a pound. It's not even a quarter pound. Right. It's an eighth of a pound. So 8 times 12 is 96. You telling me somebody's No, everybody on average Every Philadelphian's having, I mean, that's like, you're You're having almost 7.5 pretzels a month? Somebody who lied Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a. Got you again. That is a stinking lie. - [Stevie] Those are But this is supposed Well, I guess if you're taking like, all snack pretzels. Now Rhett's like, - [Stevie] Well, it does say pretzel. It doesn't say soft pretzels. It says pretzels. Can you give us a Just one of the bags that ((Laughing)) enjoying. Now, give me a, This whole thing is 10 This isn't even a pound. So they're eating, they're eating like. Philadelphia, y'all need to. 15 of these in a year. Y'all need to Y'all got to stop. Y'all need to eat more Y'all need to stop. - [Stevie] The term tying the knot Swiss couples breaking during wedding ceremonies. So breaking a pretzel is That doesn't feel right. It feels like. Where is this again? Switzerland? - [Stevie] Switzerland. Switz, you said Switz. You know, the Switz people. So they would get break a pretzel apart? That seems to be I don't think this you remember Braveheart? Yeah, man, yeah, yeah. Freedom, yeah, yeah. They got married in secret. Right. And they didn't have rings, like around their wrists. And I think that it comes tie people together. That was the way that It was literally tying people So I think this is a soft lie. It's not about pretzels. - [Stevie] It's, it's a fact. The way that you're guessing the things that are facts. Welcome, welcome to my world. I can convince you So, tying the knot came apart in Switzerland? - [Stevie] It's, I guess it's like exercise, but with a pretzel. Do the Swiss still do this? I certainly hope so. I wonder if that couple fondue pot will get married. - [Stevie] That fell in love ((Laughing)) I could see it. I could see it on their faces, - [Stevie] Pretzels were one of the most by sailors due to their simple abundant access to salt. You can't go on a trip with might fall in love with. I don't think. I'm just saying, you Like I think if like. What do you mean? I'm just saying, you it, uh. - Stint goggles. So there was a thing Back when, you know us, And people would go little missions trips. But you do with long stints. And it was called Short Term Stint, for short. And what would happen like, eight Americans would to tell everybody about they'd never heard of him. And, well, And, it's true, And, what happens is, with, like. It's true. Eight other Americans, in a way that is like you know what I'm saying? Like a summer camp bond? It's like beer goggles. But we called them stint fall in love, and a lot of And then they would, it would be like, what? When we were in that fondue ((Laughing)) So what I'm saying is. On the inside. What I'm saying is, you gotta with people, because you Yep. True. And if you go to prison. Yeah, that's a whole You know, it's What was the question, though? - [Stevie] Yep, I was waiting for it. Pretzels were one of the at sea by sailors due to I was waiting for it. This is a lie because you have let it dry out or something. to make a pretzel. So, they're not baking Oh yeah, they are. They got a, they - [Stevie] Well, I didn't ((Laughing)) Yacht ovens. Is what they call it. - [Stevie] But it is fake. Not yachts. - [Stevie] It is not true. Yes, see? I got you, Rhett. - [Stevie] Ooh. Many experts believe the I was about to say organs. And the shape of the a child praying with their Let's look at a pretzel. Let's look at these peanut It's like that? A child praying. This is how you're Yeah, yeah. This is a child praying. Which way, though? I don't, I think it's, you're It's really like. I think this is a child playing that game where you, like, Oh, yeah. Remember that? In middle school? I'm making out with someone. ((Laughing)) I'm not praying, I don't, I don't, Soft lies. That is a. That's a hard pretzel. - [Stevie] It's real. When you told us that you were just talking. I even, I kind of got - [Stevie] Yeah, I always, I do Many experts I thought, I thought you were Yeah, yeah, yeah. Conversationally. Like one you already knew. Like, oh, I'm seeing this one. Well, a lot of In my yacht search. - [Stevie] Yeah. Kinda disappointed in the, Yeah. Do you know the like own Catalina Island. Did you know that? Chase knows. He's done some You can't pin down - What? Yes, it is. And the Cubs did their spring Field in Chicago, that's They did their spring training Crazy. And then, when you go in probably seen it, right? You've seen the pictures up there on the left. That's the Wrigley house. They used to own the whole like, Wrigley grandkids. are the, they run the board Island and they make all is like, is like kinda The Wrigleys. So I just kinda had in were very similar and could go eat pretzels on. - [Stevie] Well we didn't look That might lead to Now we're Was there a question - [Stevie] There's another question. We're not letting her get - [Stevie] A pretzel almost when the royal family of of France with a pretzel which was seen as an insult. Ooh. No. Yes. - Yes. They were happy just to be Yeah, it's fake. Ah, Prussia! ((Laughing)) Ah, Prussia! I'm under so much Prussia. Under Prussia. - [Stevie] I'm out of pretzel facts. Oh, well, come up, come the top of your head. - [Stevie] Many experts believe. ((Laughing)) - [Link] Preorder the Mythical mythical.com/cookbook It's got fan favorite your favorites, GMM and Do it.