2014 The Year of Culture Supported by the Ministry of Channel One Star Media Babich Design The Russian Society of War History present April of 1814. The Russian only to be conquered by Paris in turn. The Russian Emperor could afford to the surrender of Moscow was The decree of His ...to treat the residents ...and to win them over with ...not following the example "Not following the example and what are you doing, bastards? After three years of bloody war, were bursting with the joy of victory. WARSAW BERLIN LUTZEN DRESDEN KULM LEIPZIG CHAMPAUBERT MONTMIRAL FERE-CHAMPENOISE CHATEAU-THIERRY PARIS THE FOREIGN CAMPAIGN THE NAPOLEONIC WARS - THE Episode Four. The Last Battle The Emperor ordered to pay the and gave a year-worth pay General Miloradovitch even for three years in advance and up to the last coin in Paris. Officers wasted money in gambling houses and spared money for The Russian officer N.Kovalskiy remembered: "The officers who had some fortune came to bankers with a banal stating that they were creditworthy people, and got considerable amounts Not everybody paid their debts. When in it was the commander of the Count Mikhail Vorontsov who He was forced to sell one of There were some cases of of the Russian regular army. Former serfs fled to the French However, not a single case like that The Cossacks camped in the They washed their horses in the Seine. because the Cossacks went into The Cossacks enjoyed immense and became favorite The "steppe barbarians" were in fashion. The Cossacks remained They didn't miss opportunities They weren't ashamed to sell loot and they fished all the famous of the Fontainebleau Palace. You'll answer for these carps, Karpov! Your Excellency, Alexei They are not mine... not mine... What did I send you to I did everything that they might be General I know them only too well! Beware, Karpov! I have enough - What do you have there? - Clean up! It's not a Cossack village! The French units were keeping order The city was infested with the among the former allies all the time. Samoilov? Atmosphere of Paris favored it. - Samoilov? Go out, bastard! Who is there? - Nobody. - What has happened, Simeon? - You're Simeon now... I'll kill you... bastard! Your Excellency! Don't Sergey Volkonskiy called Paris "the The famous Palais-Royale There the major part of the The Russian officer Chertkov remembered: "There was an accumulation of whores on the third floor, a roulette on and an arms repair shop on the ground and real picture of what wild Soldiers didn't go to the city more and more difficult to Many officers even stopped and came to the inspections The situation troubled the the victory over Napoleon made only Now, when the diplomats his main trump card was a Your grenadiers lost the skill A company fell out of step It was because of the wrong music, Sire. Arrest and send the commanders to the guardroom. Sire! Respect their service and don't You have Siberia and fortresses for that! Execute your duty! The Russian colonels in the They didn't drive Napoleon away Tell the Tsar that these in some settlement. Tell Maybe the Emperor will Karpov! You're a fool! Who He will... He has so much on his hands. The Emperor will have I beg your pardon. This Good for you. You may end Alexander had to turn from a The post-war Europe had to for Russia and secured On the Russian Emperor's initiative to the Bourbon dynasty dethroned by The new king was on his way to Paris. Louis XVIII was a brother to Louis XVI executed at the times He was notable to neither He was very clumsy because He spent almost all the time He took his enthronement for granted nor to England that gave him shelter. Alexander knew: the Frenchmen might act in the same way with the and a war would start. That's why Louis would get the throne of France's Constitution. Alexander threatened not The future king had to oblige. and the French monarchs When during a festive banquet a servant and not to Louis, the latter Louis behaves as if I owe him Talleyrand was right: the and didn't learn their lesson. Alexander had no intentions He remembered the burnt On April 10, on the Orthodox Easter, on a square that would later French military commanders were invited. After the liturgy all the present and watched Napoleon's The majority of them were not From the letter of "Our spiritual triumph is absolute. the entire numerous phalange crowding by the Russian Orthodox to have the opportunity Alexander didn't forget the Moscow turned into stables. However, he permitted himself to take. as much as he could, as The French provinces occupied by were devastated with requisitions. Dozens The Prussians killed a man in They also threw a baby A word "Prussian" became The German General Yorck said: to command a detachment of the a gang of bandits". In one district Vendeuvre that of wounds and beatings. There were However, the punishment was one Russian soldier was shot for The Russian Emperor was trying and lawlessness as hard as he for the sake of the future peace in It was the reason why he practically to Louis as a present. However, An order for the leib-guards What about the colonels of this regiment? As General Ermolov reported, these If the officers of this regiment are not in the French guardroom by will leave the city too.... to a place Yes, Sire. Do you consider me forgetful, like You may go. I beg your pardon, Sire. Louis is scheming something The French are preparing a Austria is ready to join them. We must sign a long-awaited The Bourbons are incorrigible On May 30, a peace treaty was signed Austria and Prussia from one side It was Alexander who did everything as complacent for France as possible. It got back the majority of the colonies The country France was allowed to keep almost all Still, a row of issues remained They were to be discussed in a convened on the initiative of Alexander I. Alexei Petrovitch? As for the Colonels who Arrest them immediately. Don't hand Bring them to my palace. A separate Yes, Sire. Karpov! Cossack Captain Karpov! Cossack Captain Karpov, Remember, Karpov -- I never Ask Bonaparte. You met him, didn't you? He must be recalling you on the Elba. Your Excellency? May I Napoleon arrived on the Elba In any case, it was what In 1811, when Napoleon was the Bavarian General Wrede tried Napoleon cut him short with such words: "In three years I'll be the master of The former Emperor owned in the middle of the Mediterranean The population of the island With his characteristic energy, he He concerned himself with the taxes and laws, law-enforcement 600 grenadiers and foot a hundred of cavalrymen and 300 His life on the island It seemed that he lost interest However, only people who didn't By autumn, the former Emperor to the news in France. Louis, his court, ministers and aristocracy nor Napoleon had ever happened. and go back to the old order. that former ways couldn't be restored. Brilliant! After Louis enthroned, all the state remained the same. The new rulers failed The organization of the ministries, forming and supplying of the of the Legion of Honor functioned exactly as they The majority of his Aristocracy that returned to their lands, estates and palaces It didn't suit the French Intelligentsia was outraged The army hated the new rulers Soldiers and officers recalled brought by the Emperor. as he was called in the troops, shared and the triumphs of Brilliant! Unable to create anything to the Bourbons did nothing more with their words and actions, Everybody hated them, despised but the royalty didn't However, one person It was he who created the Brilliant! It was December of 1814. At that that was to decide The Russian army left Paris A part of the troops was The other part was going In the course of prolonged a large Polish-Lithuanian state Russia got its Lithuanian, The rest of the territory, namely Poland, By 1807, Napoleon on the territories retaken The Duchy of Warsaw that he founded in Napoleon's war against Russia. from which Napoleon launched A 100,000-strong Polish army from the first to the Your Excellency, you - What question? What are you talking about? The Emperor said that you saw Oh, Samoilov, it was so long ago. In how did the Emperor got to know But he called me Oh, Lord! Your Excellency, what is he like? - Who? Bonaparte? He is plain. Like It happened in Tilsit. I stood He went out from behind a curtain. They I think he wanted to take a leak. My sabre. He came up to He took a pinch of tobacco out He spattered me with his saliva. You should have cut him You won't believe it, Samoilov. He couldn't wipe a humble Cossack. Therefore, he said "pardon", It was a blunder, Your Excellency. You should have cut him with your sabre. Stop it, Samoilov. They were signing Let the rulers sign treaties. You're a fool! You know nothing I just can't understand one thing -- about my advice to Ermolov... My tongue is my enemy indeed. Don't - Me? With the Poles? Stop it! It makes no use to talk to you, Samoilov... To keep Russia safe from an to annex the territory of the Duchy Meanwhile an 80,000-strong under the head of Ermolov on the very border of Poland Austria laid claims to However, Alexander gave "I'll hold what I'm occupying". England A country defeated and saved from was trying to impose its will on Russia! The Vienna Congress procrastinated. Diplomats, ministers and monarchs were Silesia and Belgium. They discussed of the new states. However, not to let any of their And it was the might of Russia The Russian Emperor proved Behind his charming smile and safeguarding the A person who suited everybody as became an enemy. The Russian became useless and dangerous. Europe nor in Poland but in some deep The issue of Poland became a stumbling They tried to talk Alexander out of However, the Emperor was firm: "I'm push me out of there". So, the former from Napoleon to Russia betrayed In January of 1815, a secret tractate between England, Austria Each of the countries was to put 120,000 of infantry and England undertook to pay 30 and 20 pounds for each infantryman of live force forward. The only soldier our This treaty was signed on January, will be taken too if Russia doesn't It won't. Do they want a new war? Europe was one step away from a new war. However, the events On February 26, 1815 on the island the French garrison got an order All the 1,100 soldiers who were at The soldiers had no idea However, when Napoleon ascended it all became clear. Shouts "Long Your Excellency, write To what Emperor? What are you talking This is it! Hay costs almost 5 rubles, What shall I feed the horses Write... Think about what you're - But... He remembers you. He knows He remembers. But what will happen if I'm not talking about some What if we move against Bonaparte Are you out of your mind? He must be fishing on his sit down and write the Yes, Your Excellency? Bring paper and ink. But... Your Excellency... I don't Give space... Write all the words that you know. Your Excellency, the alarm! On April 1, a small fleet moored near the Antibes Cape. The customs The towns of Cannes and Gras fell of resisting. A detachment headed along the mountain trails to Grenoble The garrison of Grenoble announced Soon all the neighboring and Napoleon headed a detachment The Emperor moved towards Paris without a single shot. Their troops had already left France. retuned to the Motherland too, and were spoilt. It was scary to fight to put it mildly. Austria and Prussia &quot;Louis's court felt extremely uneasy. cities surrendered to him Louis pinned his hopes Marshal Ney was Napoleon himself awarded him with "the bravest of the bravest". I'll bring him as a Ney was against Napoleon's nothing but new troubles for France. He However, in a few days a Ney and his troops went over On March 19, Napoleon That very night King Louis and his The next day the Emperor The road Napoleon covered from and the ease with which he returned shocked Europe. On pain of the the foreign monarchs and to talk the Russian army into joining Napoleon, in his turn, He found a copy of the secret treaty in the archives of the and sent that document to Alexander It looks like Napoleon wants They are all ready to betray each However, the usurper is more dangerous. Get the troops ready. Shall we tell our allies What for? They already know about it. This land is inhabited by 30,000 two-legged devoid of both rules and honor. Soon the agreements on the were signed on conditions set out A new anti-French coalition It announced Napoleon as "the enemy of humanity". The allied armies moved By June of 1815, Napoleon had 198,000 soldiers and at his disposal. According the allies sent the following forces 230,000 people, the English army -- 100,000 people, The English Field-Marshal However, a major part of the allied to the French border. The Russian While the armies of Russia and Austria Napoleon decided to settle accounts with those allies that were in the English troops of Wellington of Blucher quartered between This is how the last military On June 3, the Russian approached the border of France. - Have some rest. - Your... I beg your pardon, Your - Are you warming up? - Sit down. What a nice toy! I had a When I left for the war four Then I got a letter from the He is four now, and I'm still at &quot;then retreated to Moscow with Prince I reached Paris, then and now I'm going Then I will go home...I hope. How many miles did I'm going back and forth... At least you're riding. And the infantry Your Excellency, holy Lord... How My son is growing. Soon he'll I told you, you should It's all right. If God lets me, And then -- let the May I ask you about Can you show Napoleon to He is very curious. He has been However, the Russian army had the nor to give him another battle. Before the entering the allies announced him In a few days a mobilization Napoleon could use only while the allies had 700,000-strong and intended to increase Napoleon had only one to try and break the allied armies in On June 15, Napoleon sent of the English troops of Duke he attacked the Prussian On June 16, 1815 by Linnie the and sent Marshal Grouchy Napoleon himself went to Brussels Under the pressure from Ney On receiving assurances from he took a position by the village The allied forces amounted The French had 72,500 The battle lasted from It rained on the eve of the battle. Therefore, both the fought in knee-deep mud. The a few times. It seemed that the However, Wellington succeeded in In the evening, the Prussian Marshal Grouchy whom Napoleon was engaged in a battle by Wavre Napoleon threw his last reserve into The blow was directed into the to prevent them from joining first stopped that attack and then By 8 p.m. the battle was over. Blucher was turning but Napoleon didn't have The guards started to retreat. Only three battalions out of the It was the last stronghold Surrounded by the guards, the "Brave Frenchmen, surrender"! General "Shit! The guards die but don't that he pronounced only the "die but don't surrender" After that answer Cambronne's with artillery shelling. Marshal Joachim Murat. After the second abdication and planned a landing party in would rebel under his banner. In where he was arrested by the In five days, the military Standing in front of the with his wife's portrait and commanded: "Save my face! Shoot me in the heart"! However, almost all the shots The place of the Marshal's burial Marshal Michel Ney. After the defeat to Switzerland but was The military tribunal consisting of issued an order on its incompetence to the Chamber of Peers. The On December 7, 1815 Ney was shot. He commanded his shooting himself bccause the soldiers refused There is a version that and that Ney was In 1821, he allegedly sailed to and lived under another person's name. Marshal Louis Berthier. After the abdication of Napoleon Under unclear circumstances, he fell of his palace in Bamberg, Marshal Louis-Nicolas Davout. the allies to amnesty all in the restoration of Napoleon's would continue resistance. He remained the only Napoleon's to the Bourbons, so they didn't had the In 1819, he elevated to the He died in 1823 of tuberculosis. Arman de Caulaincourt. After the his name was registered in the It was removed only after He lived in Paris and didn't After the defeat by Waterloo, on a French frigate. However, he by an English squadron and moved to on his own accord, hoping to However, according to a decision he was sent to the island of There, in the village of Longwood, he The return of Napoleon that some countries demanded and division of its territory Only the interference of The Russian Emperor was looking a decision that would give at least Not a single year or even day All the previous XVIII and the passed in fighting. France was Prussia and Spain, Russia -- &quot;and the Osman Empire; England and fought both in Europe and in Asia. Holland and the German and the Balkan peoples were fighting too. of the Napoleonic Wars over 3.5 It seemed that the history of of bloodshed and aggression. Alexander to stop that nightmare. Just a few the Vienna Congress convened on Thanks to the Congress the Vienna was formed known as A new epoch started -- an between the European states, Alexander I was its founder. The Vienna system of the international the first example of the collective for 35 years, until the In its framework, a notion of the Remaining a form of this system effectively limited the freedom Despite wars, revolutions, and international Many-lateral diplomacy formed Diplomatic ranks (an ambassador, and four types of consular Diplomatic immunity and a notion of a This is how the epoch of ended and how the epoch of the The Russian army left the Your Excellency, how It's none of our business. We have been Anything may happen. The Emperor ordered us to wait. Everything is quiet in Europe. What is it? This is a list of the officers. They're talking about the Constitution. About what? Talk bravely! On dethroning the Emperor? These data aren't verified The sources are reliable. Your Excellency, I don't have a right to judge them. They are talking not only about dethroning All right, give it to me. Sire, tomorrow if not today... tomorrow in this world. An Emperor may but he is unable to stop it. Thank you. Let's go! Cossacks, at attention! Samoilov? Yes, Sire! Look, brother, I heard - A portrait? I see. I do, Sire. Will you give it to me? In exchange With great pleasure, Sire! We haven't been together We got to like one Have another portrait in exchange. George the Victor suits a I'm happy to serve you, Sire! It's time to go home. Go, go! It's time to go home, it really is... Samoilov, I'll kill you! Let's go! Yes, sir! Let's go! Cossack Captain Karpov lived He served in the Caucuses Cossack Samoilov was killed in a In 1816, General Ermolov was appointed in the Caucuses. He headed the and the Russian-Persian Emperor Alexander I After his death in December of the same took place in Russia known Many of the rebels participated and the foreign campaign Script by Marina Bandilenko Photography by Dmitry Kiptilyi Art Director Make up by Galina Korolenko Narrators - Sergey Chonishvili Music by Maxim Voitov Produced by Valery Babich, Vlad Ryashin. Commissioned by Channel One, Russia