Hello everyone This video starts with cute 'Mary'! For lunch today, I'm making smoked duck fried rice! First, rinse 2 cups of white rice. Add one pack of 200g konjac rice and mix it together. Cook the konjac rice Cut the leftover smoked duck into small pieces and add it to the pan. Add the remaining green onions generously. Stir-fry sweetly. Add 1 large tablespoon of oyster sauce. Add the rice and stir-fry. Add 2 eggs Mix well without clumping and stir-fry. The smoked duck fried rice is ready! Finish by adding sesame oil generously. I feel like it's not enough just having the fried rice, so I'll quickly make some jjajang. Add a little oil and stir-fry the onion until golden. Since I don't have jjajang sauce at home, I'll use curry instead. Add 1 block of curry paste and cook. The curry is ready Scoop the fried rice into a bowl generously. Put the thick curry sauce beside it. Top with parsley to finish I'll also take out the delicious fresh kimchi I've been eating lately. Let's eat~ I was craving jjajang rice, but... curry goes really well with it! I should order some jjajang powder for next time... With the smoked duck in the fried rice, it's nutty and packed with protein It tasted like Chinese restaurant fried rice! 'Mary' and 'Yass' are sunbathing under the warm sunlight. From morning to lunch, the sun shines perfectly here, so it's their regular spot. I was wondering what to make for dinner, but my mom ordered some grilled intestines, and they arrived! I'll put them straight into my stomach. It's a set with small intestine, large intestine, and pork intestines, but I'll save the large intestine for later for braised chicken. I'll immediately open 200g of small intestines and 200g of heart and grill them in the pan. I should have used a wide pan first, but the seasoning is mixing together now.. haha Add whole garlic and enoki mushrooms too. Grilled assorted intestines complete Take out plenty of fresh kimchi and eat it with the intestines. The sauce that came with the intestines is the sesame sauce! It's 11 o'clock now, and I'm really hungry It doesn't look great because I mixed the seasoning while grilling, but it tastes good. If you grill it over high heat, the intestines will taste amazing The intestines were ordered from Toss Shopping by my mom! Thanks to the well-timed delivery of intestines, dinner was quickly finished. Feeling great, 'Mary'. Winter means the season when 'Mary' will come close to me! Relaxing with cute 'Mary', wrapping up the day For lunch today, I'll eat lettuce! What's up with these thick lettuce stems? Cut the lettuce stems into a V shape and remove them. I'll use the tender leaves of the lettuce to make wraps Overlap the V shape to make a round hole. Place a bite-sized portion of the smoked duck fried rice on top. Place them neatly into a dish. Top with ssamjang. Lettuce wrap complete Cut off the bottom of the enoki mushrooms. Split them in half and cross them. Wrap with 2 sheets of seaweed and tightly roll it. Wet the seaweed with a brush so it doesn't tear and rolls easily! Slice into 1 cm pieces. Coat with corn starch evenly. Add plenty of oil and grill them on both sides. Generously pour on Buldak sauce Let the crispy mushrooms soak in the sauce. Arrange them neatly in a dish. Top with sesame seeds to finish Take a bite of the lettuce wrap, shaped like a flower. The outer part of the mushroom becomes chewy after soaking in the sauce. Spicy and chewy, it tastes amazing Lunch today feels healthy and tastes like home-cooked food Making lettuce wraps with smoked duck fried rice was delicious even with just ssamjang! Of course, it tastes great because there's meat in it Charging up during study time. Ice cream feels even more tempting in the winter, like a frog in a well! It looks like I'm studying, but when I type this fast, it's usually 99% likely to be a KakaoTalk message. My mom came over with my aunt while she was on a business trip! For dinner, I'm making spicy braised short ribs, as per 'Ryu Soo-young's recipe. Grill the pork ribs until golden, then add the sauce. Add 2 tablespoons of allulose, 2 tablespoons of oligosaccharide, 5 tablespoons of soy sauce, 3 tablespoons of minced garlic, and 3 tablespoons of chili powder. Mix well. The key ingredient is 2 tablespoons of tomato ketchup! Add enough water to cover the ribs, then simmer. Chop the onion into large pieces. Chop the sweet potatoes into large pieces as well. Add them to the short rib stew and simmer. Simmer for about 20 minutes to finish the spicy short ribs I'll quickly make some seaweed soup to go with it. Stir-fry the seaweed with sesame oil and soy sauce, then add water until it's submerged. If you have bone broth concentrate and perilla powder, you can make a delicious seaweed soup in no time. I'll quickly make a rolled omelet, and the dinner is ready Enjoying the meal The braised short ribs only took about 30 minutes to cook, and it was so delicious! The seaweed soup was also really tasty, they say My aunt, who's a great cook, also approved of the seaweed soup taste My aunt had dinner and went home, and my mom is staying over for the night. I made a delicious fruit and cheese platter with Ivy. The wine wasn't very good, though... The furry little monsters fighting since the morning. Guys... Why are you fighting on such a nice day? It seems like 'Mary' won today. Bought a Hachu Ping figure from Mega Coffee (14,900 KRW...wow). They were having a sale on the spicy rice cake (Yupddeok) for 9,900 KRW, so I bought it and took it home. For lunch today, it's Yupddeok Making some rice balls to go with it. Roll them into balls and place them in a bowl It's been so long since I had Yupddeok.. I ordered the spicy fish cake (Yupddeok) flavor. I'll scoop just enough to eat with cheese. Since it's my empty stomach, I'll take a sip of Coolpis first. Let's eat! I was thinking of adding mozzarella cheese at home, but... That would hide the spiciness of the Yupddeok. I think the spiciness of Yupddeok is just perfectly spicy I mixed the leftover soup with the rice balls. So good. So delicious... Yupddeok refueling successfully completed :D I'm going to separate the leftover Yupddeok into portions and freeze it! Exactly three portions to eat later. For dinner, I'm making oven-roasted chicken with chicken thighs I'll let it marinate in milk for about an hour. Rinse it slightly and place it in the pan without overlapping. I was flipping through Shorts and saw 'WaraIt's' video, and got hooked on this seasoning. It's 0-calorie seasoning! Since it's 0-calorie, I'll use it generously. Flip it over. Sprinkle the seasoning generously on both sides. Air fry at 190degC for 10 minutes, flip once, then air fry for another 10 minutes (total 20 minutes). I'll wash the salad vegetables to go with it These aren't from my garden, my friend gave them to me. Rinse them thoroughly and shake off the water. Tear them into bite-sized pieces and place them in a bowl. Slice the cherry tomatoes and add them. Top with tasty Snacking cheese. The oven-roasted chicken is also done Top the salad with the chicken as a garnish. Finish with Oriental sauce. Since it's salad, I'll have it with Asabi soda. The chicken looks amazing It tastes just like a delicious oven-roasted chicken! Is this seasoning really 0-calorie...? For real? The familiar taste of this seasoning makes it so good! I feel like it'll go well with all types of meat! Next time, I'm definitely going to buy wings and grill them with this seasoning. 'Yass' charging at 'Mary'. 'Mary' doesn't seem to like being chased like that (so sensitive). What's going on here? Is there a bug at home? Relaxing with the cute 'Mary' and 'Yass', ending the day For lunch today, I'm making tortilla wraps with oatmeal! Use a 1:1 ratio of water and oatmeal. Grind it finely. This texture is just perfect for me. Spread it as thinly as possible on a dry pan. Cook on low heat, flipping both sides until golden. Tear a large sheet of plastic wrap. Place the salad vegetables generously on the tortilla. Chop the cherry tomatoes and add them. Add the oven-roasted chicken I set aside yesterday Add cheddar cheese + mayonnaise. Add a generous amount of sriracha sauce. Cover with more vegetables. Wrap tightly with the plastic wrap. Compress it tightly and roll it up. Cut it diagonally. The chicken tortilla sandwich is ready I also washed and placed the Shine Muscat grapes that my aunt gave me. Let's enjoy! Pull the plastic wrap down a little and take a big bite. The salad I had yesterday was mostly vegetables, so it was a bit bland Adding carbs made it so much better. But I heard that if you grind oatmeal and use it to make a tortilla, it's not great for a diet. That's okay... I'm not really on a diet anyway. In 2025, I'll really focus on dieting (New Year's resolution). After class, I'm harvesting a ton of perilla leaves from the farm I bought a microwave pasta cooker! You put pasta and water in it, and it cooks the pasta in the microwave. I always burn my pasta when I cook it in a pot. But now, I can cook it separately in the microwave. Much easier. I add enough water to submerge the pasta, and cook for 10 minutes in the microwave for regular pasta. Since I'm using thin capellini, I cooked it for 8 minutes. While the pasta cooks, I can prepare the other ingredients... This is a great purchase. I suddenly craved squid jeotgal, so I ordered 1kg of it. I put the cooked pasta into a bowl and roll it up. Chop the perilla leaves and add them. Add a generous amount of squid jeotgal. Add a generous amount of sesame oil that my grandmother gave me. Sprinkle with perilla powder and sesame seeds. The dish name is Squid Jeot Capellini. A regular dish I make whenever I buy jeotgal Mix it all together, and it tastes so good The ingredients are simple, but it tastes gourmet, like something from a pasta place. But I was a bit too greedy and added too much jeotgal, so it's a bit salty. When that happens, I just drink a cold beer to balance out the saltiness. The combination of salty squid jeotgal, perilla leaves, and sesame oil is perfect That was delicious :D Some people were curious about my hydroponics method, so I'll show it in detail I bought this hydroponic system from AliExpress for about 30,000 KRW, and I've been using it for 6 months. It was perfect, but a few days ago, one broke. (Water is leaking from the bottom). So, I don't really recommend it... but it was worth the price. Right now, I'm pulling out plants that have grown enough and moving them. I'll plant new seedlings in the empty space. I could just plant the seeds directly, but if I sprout them first and plant them in sponge, the chances of failure are much lower. Put them back in the hydroponics system, and let them grow until they reach the desired size. Just make sure to add water occasionally, and they'll grow really well. The light turns on and off automatically... a cool device. Of course, I can't just grow them in plain water. I add hydroponic solution mixed with water. I use Dayu Mulphure, and mix 5 ml of A and B solutions into 2L of water. Then, I move the plants that have grown bigger to the veranda. I grow them in pots without LEDs and just add nutrients. Once the plants grow enough, they don't die easily, and they thrive as long as I add water! I like to grow a lot of plants at once, but honestly, even if you just start with seeds in the system, they grow well. And now, the hydroponic garden on my veranda is finished Would you like to try plant investing with me? At lunchtime, I'm making Genoise. This is the recipe by 'Dabok', and it's a mini cake size. Mix 1 egg and 30g of sugar, then melt the sugar over a double boiler. Whip it up at high speed. I didn't whip it enough, and stopped... The start of disaster. Add 30g of cake flour. Be careful not to deflate the foam while mixing. Melt 5ml of milk and 5g of butter in the microwave. Add a bit of the batter and mix. Then mix it into the entire batter. I could tell the batter was a failure, but I kept going. Pour it into mini cake molds. I baked it in the oven, but... yeah, since the whipping wasn't enough, it turned into a hard cake. I'll quickly prepare lunch. I'm making a quick spicy ramen porridge with Buldak Bokkeummyeon! Put the noodles in a plastic bag and crush them. Cut up the remaining pink sausages. Add half a bowl of rice to 400ml of boiling water Add the whole Buldak Bokkeummyeon sauce packet. Add the chopped sausages. Add the crushed ramen noodles. Add sweet corn Let it boil, and then add mozzarella cheese generously. Let it simmer until thick, and the Buldak Bokkeummyeon porridge is done Serve the porridge in a bowl. Sprinkle the included powder soup. Add a drizzle of sesame oil. Mix well. Since I added so much cheese, it stretches so much! The taste is similar to adding cheese to spicy Buldak Bokkeummyeon! A combination that can't go wrong I've heard that Buldak Bokkeummyeon porridge is delicious. But for me, I prefer to just boil it and drink all the broth. Simple and delicious, enjoyed it! :D After class, I made Genoise batter again. This batter is definitely different from earlier. Knock the batter to remove air bubbles. Bake at 160degC for 20 minutes. Remove it from the mold and let it cool. I'll let the Genoise rest in the fridge and make the requested cake tomorrow! For dinner today, my mom sent me some cuttlefish She probably bought it from Kakao Shopping. I've never had cuttlefish before, but she says it's delicious when steamed and dipped in vinegar. Layer it neatly in a steamer. Cover and steam for about 10 minutes. The cuttlefish is short and plump I'll make a warm fish cake soup to go with it. Add fish cake skewers and tofu pouches Let it boil, and the fish cake soup is ready. It looks like mini squid, so cute Dip it in the vinegar sauce and take a bite. There's a core inside each piece, so it was a bit of a surprise. It tastes similar to squid, but with a delicious sesame-flavored filling. It's delicious, but it's a bit overwhelming? I'm not a fan of the filling Fish cake soup is the best to eat on a cold day The part of the cuttlefish that's flesh is chewy and nice to bite into! If I eat it without the filling, I think I could finish it all. There's cuttlefish sashimi too, I think it'll be chewy and delicious like squid sashimi I really enjoyed this meal! Good morning Yass: How do I look? I walk so well, right? Yass: If you saw it, give me a snack now. I came back to the farm again for lunch. It's so abundant Chop half an onion into small pieces. Chop up the leftover cuttlefish from yesterday. Wash and roughly chop the lettuce and perilla leaves. Mix 1 tbsp of gochujang, 0.5 tbsp of gochujang, 1 tbsp of soy sauce, 2 tbsp of oligo syrup, 1 tbsp of vinegar, 2 tbsp of sesame oil. Add sesame seeds and mix it all up. Now it's a spicy cuttlefish salad Transfer it to a bowl. I'm going to mix it with somen noodles for a bite. Boil it quickly and rinse with cold water. Roll it up and place the cuttlefish salad next to it. Sprinkle sesame seeds on top to finish. Let's eat! Mix everything well. Slurp it up in one bite. The spicy and tangy sauce goes perfectly with it The cuttlefish innards taste less overwhelming when mixed with the sauce, and it's so savory. It's kind of like sea snails with noodles, but it's even more savory because of the innards This would be perfect as an alcohol snack... I'm quickly eating and then going to make a cake with the Hachuping figure I bought before! The color of the cake depends on the Hachuping figure in the package... It's one of the six types on the packaging. Secret Pink Cut the Genoise into 3 parts. Slice the Shine Muscat in half for the cake. Peel the tangerines. Slice them thinly to about 0.5cm. I'm going to make two cakes today! A tangerine cream cake and a Hachuping cake! A friend asked me to make these cakes for them Since it's a gift cake, I can't mess it up... I'll brush the syrup on the cake base to keep it moist. Wrap the cake with tape and secure it. Spread a layer of whipped cream. Place the tangerine slices on top so the cut side faces out. Fill the center with whipped cream and tangerines. Now fill the rest of the gaps with whipped cream. Place the chopped tangerines on top as a decoration. Lightly coat the tangerines with syrup. Decorate the edges with whipped cream. ...Let's just cover it again. I fixed the surface to make it nice and neat. Peel all the tangerines and place the segments on top. The tangerine cream cake is done Now I'm making the Hachuping cake. Brush syrup on the Genoise to keep it moist. Spread a thin layer of whipped cream. Add a generous amount of Shine Muscat. Add one more layer. Add another layer of whipped cream and cover with Genoise. Now cover it with whipped cream. Add a lot of cream and shape it carefully. Spreading whipped cream... difficulty Lv.99999 First, I shape the sides, then the top. Whipped cream is way harder than buttercream. Now, I'll carefully transfer the cake to the cake board. Oh, right, the bottom whipped cream Carefully move it again. Mix food coloring into the whipped cream. The main colors for decorating are pink and blue from the figure. Wash the figure carefully and place it on top. Decorate with whipped cream around the cake. The pink and blue combination... I'm weak when it comes to color combos. The sides of the cake looked empty, so I spent a while decorating it. I had to re-adjust the cream to get the pretty direction right. The Hachuping cake is done This cute Hachuping cake will go to a friend's nephew's birthday I need more practice making cakes Whipped cream is so tricky to handle... I packaged it up carefully, and luckily they were satisfied with the quality I delivered the cake, and for dinner, I felt exhausted, so I went for something simple. The best quick meal is ramen with triangle rice balls. I warmed up smoked duck fried rice and pressed it into a triangle mold. I took it out of the mold. Wrap it up in seaweed and tape it to secure. Triangle rice ball is ready For ramen, I got Jjapagetti. Add Buldak sauce to make it spicy Add 2 fried eggs Serve it in a bowl. Top with half-cooked fried eggs. Add cheddar cheese and parsley to finish. Take out lots of kimchi and eat with it. Ending the week with beer Enjoy a refreshing sip. The best thing about triangle rice balls is eating crispy seaweed! It's even tastier because the ingredients are more generous than store-bought. Mix everything well. Take a bite with kimchi. It's so delicious The combination of Jjapagetti and kimchi is awesome. This kimchi is from Emart's Peacock, and I ate it without complaint. But next time, I'll try kimchi from somewhere else I had a simple and delicious dinner Ending the video with the cute 'Mary' :D That's all for today's video! Thank you so much for watching until the end