I am about to get buried in concrete. And while that's happening, I'm going to explain about this substance. So the first thing that I want between cement and concrete, because people often mix these up, okay? Cement is like the glue. It's the matrix of stuff. Oh there, I feel it. Okay, that feels good. Now concrete is cement plus aggregate, so plus gravel and sand. And this is filling up Cement is the most on the planet. We use more of it than any other Every year, 500 kilograms for every man, woman, and child on earth. And that amount of cement of concrete, which is about This video is sponsored by Wren. I don't think people realize So here's another way to think about it. Every year, we make a certain more out of aluminum, and then you have glass, asphalt, lime, iron is a big one for all the steel, and then there's ceramic and wood. But by far, the solid is cementitious material, We use as much of it as we do And it's easy to see why. Concrete is liquid rock. You can pour it into any shape you like. It's strong and durable and inexpensive. And it is so easy to produce that people have been for thousands of years. To make primitive cement, the key ingredient is limestone, which is basically calcium carbonate. If you heat it up to around that drives off CO2 out of the rock, leaving calcium oxide, which Now if you grind up the calcium you get an exothermic reaction that creates calcium hydroxide, which you can pour into a mold. And over a time, it will turning back into calcium Now, that's a pretty It's the first way that but there are several drawbacks to it. I mean, for one thing, you because otherwise, CO2 can't and harden it. Plus, it's not gonna work underwater where there is no CO2 The Romans discovered the They added volcanic ash called pozzolana to the crushed limestone And they discovered this and much more durable. They used it to create the largest in the world, the Pantheon, And they built concrete which hardened underwater. Some of which are still standing today. I did not expect it to feel this heavy, like it's already really and making me slightly concerned about being able to get out. What I can tell you is that as dense as water. - Are you able to lift a leg? I just wanna make sure that you're not gonna - Yeah, okay, I'm gonna try to lift a leg just to see how bad it's gonna be. What I like is having and I'm not sure I can after I lift it up, but oh, boy. Okay, so that was like... I'm gonna try to lifting and I was able to lift it. - Right. - So at least up to this My fear is that the concrete is so dense that when it gets up around my chest, it may apply a lot of pressure, making it hard to breathe. Yeah. and having it cave in on you. You cave in your lungs so that once they contract and the weight gets against your lungs. - That's gonna be hard. - Have you thought about that? - Well, now that you mention it. But we do have oxygen Earlier, I practiced how I if I'm in trouble. - Do you feel that's okay? - That's no problem. - Okay, great. (truck signal beeping) So how did Roman concrete And in thick slabs that CO2 There is a claim that it was So, was it? For centuries, the Roman recipe was lost. It was only discovered in a book in a Swiss monastery in the 1400s. And since then, architects, scientists, and engineers have been experimenting with different cement recipes to try to achieve the best result. Now it turns out that durability, and ability to set underwater of the Roman cement, that came from the pozzolana, that volcanic ash that was added. And nearly 2,000 years later, people discovered that adding before it was crushed and And the reason is that all of and silica totally changes It means that it doesn't need In fact, the water of that hardened concrete so that it actually when it sets underwater. - So this is the compressive We're required to maintain in 100% humidity. So we've chose to submerge - Every time concrete on a job site, they cast sample cylinders of the material so they can later test it to ensure it has the strength required. - So we actually intercept a little bit of the concrete going into whatever structure they're pouring: a slab, a wall. We'll intercept it into a wheelbarrow, take the wheelbarrow over and start casting these Every day we're breaking these cylinders, checking it for strength. You can see these have been broken today. - This strength increases over time, so samples are tested when the concrete is said to - So what we do is we list the date that there will be placed on top of every cylinder. - In reality, it will after that. Samples are placed in a hydraulic press and then the pressure is - All right, ready? - I'll start loading. - We want to maintain - And it's important to load at that rate. - Yeah, you don't want to shock it. You don't want to shock it by applying too much load too fast. This middle number is in pounds per square inch. And then the top number, the big number is showing us the force of pounds we're applying. - What are we gonna get - 10,000. - 10,000. So this is gonna be really strong. - Very strong. - Okay. - It's always fun when we get something over 10,000 in a free show. Bang! - It'll shake this room. - And it has reinforced concrete walls. - It's amazingly just like you even under all that pressure. - It's still holding. - I know, right? - Oh, here it goes. - It's starting to dry. - Here it goes. - Mm-hmm. - Over 11,000 now. (cement cylinder pops) Oh yeah! - It still got a life. Having it, it didn't even- (Derek laughs) - It's my favorite part. (cement cylinder blows) - Yeah, that's cool! - Let's see. - Like the strongest - Well, the strongest concrete in the world is gonna be - In a competition, it - Today, virtually all concrete is made with a cement formulation It's known as Portland cement, but the name is really You know, they claimed that the gray color of the cement would resemble which were quarried near the But the Portland cement was and then mixing it with of shale or clay to provide the silicates. And that was all ground and put in a kiln and heated And what comes out are these They're called clinker. Now, it's suspected that cement chemists in the past may have when they overcooked their lime mixtures. But since this clinker they just considered it waste. But if you do grind it down, the cement that it to basically any other which is why it is so commonly used today. Now there are lots of compounds The most common one is I'm now feeling incredibly buoyant, like I am now floating in concrete, which is pretty ridiculous because most of my body But because it's three you can float just up to your waist. This is totally unexpected. I did not expect to be able My feet are off the floor. That's where my feet are. - My feet are here and my shoulders are up and I'm just being pushed up out of this. Once you have the cement powder, the other things you need to make concrete are the aggregates, sand, and gravel. (quarry blasting) These are blasted out of a quarry. Then they're ground up There are very strict and shapes of the aggregate, which is gonna get because, of course, that of the concrete that results. - Yeah, this is a just a The most well-rounded as far as their finishability goes. - You know when they're running they want a rounded particle, not a jagged crushed particle. - Do you really want - Around it, yeah, a spherical sand, like a river stone, like a river sand. Designers on the strip want They want to lighten up We'll incorporate some in place of this normal weight. (rocks rattling) 3/8 size. Typical concrete will weigh normal weight. This gets us about 110 - The aggregates are hauled in big trucks. All right, I'm gonna release the rock, (hydraulics hissing) where they're dumped (rocks rattling) and then they travel on big conveyor belts These get loaded into big hoppers and then weighed out and - Control operators can open this gate and drop material into this hopper, down into the mixer truck below. This is where the batch Right here in front of our is the actual recipe into the concrete mixer. Each line represents a different That top one there is a 3/4 rock. We have an intermediate 3/8 rock below it and there's your sand. Over here in this column, he's targeting, for instance, 3/4 rock. He wants to hit 13,000 pounds The computer's gonna try to - So everything's... - Everything's weighed up- - Filling up? - Now if he goes out tolerance and he overshoots a target, it's gonna change the red, a red color. Up here on this screen, we're actually showing the holding hopper. This material he's weighing is directly above the mixer truck that - What about the water, William, being orange? - Yeah, we're a little under on that. - Okay. - But we can always add little water. - Yeah. - We cannot take it away. All right, I'm gonna take a (rotary gears whining) That's what it looks like So I was interested to see in strength between pure and cement with sand and gravel like the typical concrete So I had them make up and test them in the hydraulic press. You might think that since it would be the strongest. - Cement's the magic, right? The glue. So if we lessen or lower the amount of we're gonna have less strength. - [Derek] But when we tested it fractured a lot as (cement cylinder pops) Is that it? - No. - Not officially. It can take some more pressure. What? (cement cylinder pops) - 8,000 psi, now it failed. - Now, cement plus sand. (cement cylinder blows) 9,163 psi Edit the prediction. Oh, my prediction was based on the strength it was two weeks ago, which we have here. We got 14 days of 6,600. So, you know, reason would another 1000 psi above that, but it definitely gained a lot. - And finally, cement This is the normal concrete mix. (cement cylinder pops) Is that it? No? - A part of it. (glass shatters) - Whoa! Okay, so that's it. - That's it. - That's it. (cement cylinder blows) - So it did fail at 8,300. Okay. I was surprised to see that under about the same pressure. I think, to me, really interesting that you could have all But you don't get appreciably... - Right. or that. Cement is the most So if you can get away to 30% in the mix and still get the same well then you should definitely do that. The other thing that was to flake and chip more as it was loaded. So it seemed like adding the aggregate actually helped the sample cohere and stay together even (cement cylinder blows) So was Roman concrete Well, the answer is no in short. I mean there were some that Roman concrete had. For example, it was actually less well-mixed So there were little blocks or quicklime that remained And then what happened is and water got in there, it would dissolve that calcium oxide, forming calcium hydroxide, and then you would get the new So Roman concrete was That's kind of a fascinating advantage. But I would say by and large, you know, when we look back at the Roman structures, we only see the ones that So there is a survivor bias. And finally, there's the issue of cost. We could make very strong concretes that could last an incredibly long time but we choose not to and we don't expect our Before the concrete goes out on site, they have to make sure for the customer; not too dry and not too runny. This can be adjusted with water but you don't really wanna do that because that can also affect the strength. So here, they use modern - Up here on the top left, you have our dispensing units for all our chemical add mixtures. - And that's what they're adding now of superplasticizer. It makes the concrete easier without really changing the To check that the consistency is right, they perform something called - We're gonna fill the cone and we're gonna pull that metal cone off. Measure the distance it - The concrete they're pouring on me should have a spread of 27 inches. - We're gonna measure it both sides. (crew member cheering) Right on a 27 on that one. - Yeah. - And go this way, right on a 27 on that one. - So why is it so important that you got the right - You don't want it too dry. You want it wet enough to flow and fill up whatever container in this case, the sphere with you in it. - So the question you're how long can I stay in here The usual answer is about And that's why when you down the road, that drum has to be turning to keep the concrete agitated and prevent it from setting up. But what happens if the truck breaks down or there's a traffic then, at times, concrete of these trucks and that But there is one thing you can do to slow the concrete down from setting and that is to add some The sugars inside this coke actually prevent the setting and that can buy you a few hours. So apparently these truck drivers, they drive around with a inside their cab and so they can dump it in to prevent it from setting up. So hopefully that means But how does concrete actually harden? Well, you have the dry and cement powder and then you add water. The water starts dissolving so ions enter solution, and some of those ions So that's what makes concrete What do you see? - We're approaching 12, 11.8. - So the pH of concrete The pH of this is 11.8 and which means if it's on your it can be dissolving your skin and cells. Being buried in concrete in a bath of bleach. And that's why I'm and some latex gloves. Yeah, it's not something So do not try swimming in concrete. So now the ions are And remember, the most common compound in cement is tricalcium silicate. As it reacts with the water, crystals start to form of plus other hydrate minerals. And all these crystals grow causing the concrete to harden. Note that the water is essential to the formation of these crystals. So water is not evaporating, it's not drying out. It's actually becoming part of And that's why this chemistry It's also why freshly poured in as damp an environment as possible. Las Vegas is so dry they to spray around new concrete to ensure the humidity was high enough. One of the things I realized that limestone, the core well it comes from ancient sea life. Limestone is formed from of ancient sea organisms of years ago, and then all of that got compressed. And now we use that to and, you know, overpasses, basically every huge it's made with concrete. And so now when you look at what you're really seeing Skyscrapers are made of seashells. Skyscrapers are made seashells Skyscrapers are made seashells - Yeah, this is wild. This is hilarious. I like, I have no words. - I'm like trying to but it's like, it pushes me up. Like I'm pushing down into the concrete, but it's like bop! I'm getting pushed out of this thing. I'm just gonna try to Ooh! Like that is it. There is no... - You can use that. - You cannot get buried in concrete. Okay? I'm doing my best right and it is not happening. But I'm gonna use my (Derek grunts) (Derek exclaims) Working against buoyancy. This is hard. We were worried about getting me out, but like I can't stay in. I'm gonna try to jump in. Here we go. That's it. All right, here we go. One, two, three. That's great. (Derek exclaims) That feels so good. I, like, don't wanna get out. This is so nice. Has anyone had a time check? This stuff is not gonna So as we've seen, concrete is one of the in the world. It's made possible most of the large-scale but it also creates a lot of CO2, an estimated 8% of the global total. That is more than the But together, we can do I would personally like to offset one month of And I will do that through Wren is a website where you can calculate see which aspects of your lifestyle make the biggest contribution, and learn how to reduce your impact. And then if you like, you can by funding a diverse mix of like tree planting, mineral weathering, and rainforest protection. For the first hundred people to sign up, I will personally offset your Just click on the link in the description. Now, I don't think we're using individual action alone. If you can change your light that is great. But what we really need is And that's what I like They not only plant trees they also support policy like the Clean Air Task Force, which advocates for new to get to a zero-emissions economy. The way I see it, there are moneyed interests lobbying to keep things the way they are. So we need to band together through organizations like And if you agree with me, then I invite you to click and join me in offsetting and investing in So I want to thank Wren and I want to thank you for watching.