In this life there will always be obstacles, there will always be challenges, there will always be giants. What has defeated you? What is your giant? Name it. Is it fear? Is it anxiety? Is it insecurity? Is it doubt? Perhaps your giant or your improbable feat is a better relationship, weight loss. What has been your obstacle, your challenge, your task? What is your giant? This is the last day you are going to allow this giant to defy you. I know it hasn't been easy. It's time to win. GOLIATH There will be many times in your life there will be depression, there will be anxiety, there will be oppression, there will be stress, there will be overwhelm. Will you buckle under the pressure? Or will you rise to the occasion? The Bible says, that David got up and ran into the army of the Philistine. He ran towards the battle and like an eagle is the only bird that flies into the storm. It is time for you to fly into the next dimension of where What is your dream? What is your idea? What is your assignment? There is a new breed of champions emerging and fear. Your knees may be knocking, your palms sweaty but the time is now to rise up and run after it. Run after your dream. Run after your idea. Run after your goal. Run after it with everything that you have. You will never have your future until you are fully persuaded that you are a carrier to fulfill your destiny. If nobody believes in you you got to make it up in your mind that all you have is all you need. You are going to need vision before you win you're going to have to see it I want you to see yourself winning. If you can see it you can have it. In this life there will always be a man, a woman, a boy, a girl or a team who will face impossible odds. And somehow through will, grit and a mustard seed of faith they'll manage to overcome. What I love about David is that David was not only the smallest, the least likely not only was David underrated but his weapon of choice was underrated. And there will be times in life neither what you are carrying. I'ma tell you the one thing from Goliath and that was his heart for God and God's people. If you are going to defeat your giant you are going to need heart. You must overcome what lies and the summit of your knowledge. Our Goliaths, our challenges, our giants oftentimes meet us in our valley places. It's not on the mountaintop but it's in the valley. I'll tell you this the tangible giants by means that are intangible. If a man can conquer his mindset if a man can master discipline then there is nothing he can't win. They will tell you that your dream is too big they will tell you that your destiny cannot be fulfilled. They will tell you it is impossible to accomplish But it's not about what they say it's about what you say. I believe that you are born to triumph over every demon, over every devil, over every addiction. You are fighting for your family, you are fighting for your legacy. What you are fighting for is bigger than you. Do not forget this David ran toward the Philistine. David ran towards the army. Your dream, your idea, whatever goal you have get up and run after it. You can defeat this enemy and you can have your future. If you're going to defeat this giant, it starts on the battlefield of your mind. This is where the war is won. Over the course of your life is the way. That there is great counsel in conflict. We would discover that we are most creative in the midst of adversity. So do not run from your battle. For the battle is a learning experience. You got to overcome fear. The moment that you overcome fear then your opponent is bankrupt. There's nothing they can do you're gonna have to dispense with fear and with negative self-talk. Remember your Why it is the why that gets us to win. And it is the why that gives us the power to persevere through the how. Stop looking for the addition. Stop looking for the validation. Stop looking for everybody to agree Stop looking for everybody to understand. And know this, all you have is all you need. I can see you're tired of addiction running towards you with words of darkness, death, attempting to strike fear in your heart will you cower? Will you back down? Or will you run? It's a battle. But I see a generation rising up against the one who called you powerless. Rising up against the fiery darts of the enemy. Rising up against the lies that have Rising up against the despair and the heaviness and the chronic anxiety. I have waited my whole life for this moment. Thank you to everybody that doubted me. Knees buckling, palms sweaty, heart heavy but I'm ready. I'm afraid, but I'm running. You will hear my feet walking the pavement. I'm no more complacent. Here's to everybody that doubted me. Here's to everybody Here's to everybody that counted me out. What has been tested? what has been proven? Do something with what's in your hand. Do what you can with what you have. All you have is all you need.