Designing a luxury home requires a maximizing the use of space while My name is Alex Lee and Today's episode on Design Seeds, make your home look expensive. Before we begin, we would like sponsoring today's venue at the Ashwood The Ashwood is located along the Kuala The U-thant Enclave is more It stands as a premium address for The Ashwood stands as a symbol of this distinguished address. So with such exclusivity, we took this Home as a benchmark of today's topic on Let's start with today's main agenda on look opulent, stylish, practical, and Here are some top tips worth noting down. Got your pen and paper ready? Here goes tip number one Create visual interest Most people would miss out corridors and corner bare walls This project, for an instance, once you would be this corner bare wall painted The designers of this project took corner wall, including the long corridor This naturally elevates the impression to look luxurious, calming and cosy. It also improves acoustic Creating visual interest is like If you want your kitchen to look expensive definitely a worthy tip to note down. Most ultra luxurious homes we've featured across walls, floors or even carpentry. Instead of compromising on natural alternative man made materials like this would be a wiser alternative. The kitchen is designed to maximise includes a built in oven, microwave and even a refrigerator The remaining counter top space is highlighted in travertine character to the entire kitchen design. Instead of having the entire kitchen wall this would definitely be a more affordable option and yet keeping the expensive look. Tip number two, It may seem relatively simple, mirror does makes a huge difference. Applying large mirrors in interior spatial impression and elevate the look. the sense of class and elegance. However, if there's too much mirrors, placing mirrors right when you enter The Ashwood apartment is intentionally allows for a panoramic view of Kuala Royal Selangor golf course. And due to the L shaped sliding doors, the dining table The design intention was tackled by a The large round mirror that's an opening to a different space to the open floor plan. Tip number three, choose timeless color scheme. A monochromatic color scheme create a calming, elegant look. You should not mix more than three to create balance and consistency. And a common mistake made by most home is to have multiple design Selection of furnitures are Before purchasing any furnitures or loose colour palettes of your interior space. This would allow you to achieve mood board outcome. Before we proceed to the next tip, let us first introduce If you're new to our channel, please button to contribute a small token of more encouragement to continue pursuing I would first sincerely for your kind support. Let's get to tip number four. Emphasize on lighting Good lighting can make a small apartment Use a combination of overhead lighting, create a warm, welcoming atmosphere. The curtains along the L troughs that is hidden within washed out, diffused interior lighting mood for the living area. And because the ceiling at the living and the feature wall along the living area up throw lighting that gives a comforting Spotlights are also commonly known as have to create a classy ambience for your home. And finally, tip number five, our Personalize your space. Don't design a space because you saw it in extra room and just decide to furnish it Personalize your home based If you have an extra room to a private study space or could you the dry kitchen or the dining area? In this property, the design intention private mini theater for the young couple For Netflix and YouTube fans, this In an apartment, you will realize functional Design and personalize spaces a reason to your lifestyle. Compared to having several housing guests only once a year. Space is critical. Make every corner and design purposeful. Consider the flow of the space. Ensure that the layout of the and a sense of flow between the different areas. The Ashwood boasts 302 units of condominium, 40 units rise development with only 12 units property a truly rare find in the city. Architecturally designed to have wide ventilation and unblock panoramic view of This episode refers to the 1707 square feet, 4 bedrooms large balcony and 3 to 4 car parks. Most condominiums would face challenges may not allow for a proper laundry space. But the Ashwood Condo fits spacious commodious yard for laundry and an extra This property could fit families a pet friendly community. If you want to know more about show gallery along Jalan Ampang. We hope you gain some knowledge on it look luxurious and expensive and made mistakes in renovating your home. If you enjoyed today's episode, please notification buzzer to stay in the loop My name is Alex Lee. Thank you for watching. I'll see you guys next week.