How are you doing today, Edward? It's great to see you, and it's great to be Yes, to give some context for people who are about, the reason we're here is that my good WhatsApp messaged me a webpage titled, Proof then he asked me if this was legitimate. namely you, Professor of Mathematics Edward and you said yes. Forrest Gump, and many mathematical achievements foreground or in the background. Yes, exactly. That's your popular book, and the link to And in that book, you provide an accessible of all the mathematical topics, And since this is a recent monumental result, is one of the places where we can go form instead So you brought your trusty iPad, and you're means, how it was achieved, That's right. And I also want to say that from watching your on this podcast series of everything, I feel in-depth discussion of some fairly sophisticated other areas. accept your invitation to talk about this subject, and quite technical, because I know that there audience, who actually dig this kind This kind of discussions, which perhaps go deeper on other podcasts. So, I just want to say from the beginning that indeed. of work by a large group of mathematicians. so I was, you know, I was very small. Drinfeld, who was one of the pivotal figures and probably got all the major awards He's a professor at the University of Chicago. Harvard University visiting, and he was because it actually, he was anticipating starting program, which became known as a geometric And he thought that my results, And so then we would meet And so then I was like, curious, This is 1990, so there were not so many, talking about this that much, especially new, of interest, which was representations And so I had the luck of actually having one about this, the basics. how many years I have been involved in this. Drinfeld's work with Bellenson, geometric Langlands conjecture, that kind works by, I think it's nine mathematicians, it's really like 500 pages or more, led by We've written like, I counted today, 11 papers related to the subject, and in And there are many other great, you know, Biraldo, whom I have known, I was basically here at Berkeley. I'm kind of like well-positioned to see it with you and with your audience, because and so one needs some guidance to kind of you know, kind of maybe somewhat obscure And I think that people don't necessarily have but just have an idea, have a gist of an idea to each other. people know about quantum physics, they know about of weird aspects of quantum mechanics People know a little bit about string Because physicists have done a great job kind terms. Mathematicians haven't as much. one of the motivations for writing this in an accessible form for the general audience. And so I've always tried to do it. ideas with the general audience. do this again, because we are witnessing kind being done in this recent series of works. some of the aspects of the Langlands program, of the concepts and ideas that go into Because these concepts and ideas are not only are kind of bread and butter And so the more of us, the more people are the air, in the conversation. Mathematicians benefit because it helps us desk and go talk to other people. of a bigger picture, but also helps other what kind of ideas are being played Some of those people you mentioned that you with Langlands himself? Just as an aside, for people who are listening, long, decades now, the Langlands program, because it's such a historic name, but he's Study. So here he is sitting at his office at the This picture was taken in 1999. previously occupied by Albert Einstein. It's not a joke. And in fact, if you look, if you compare the he's given some talks, there With the picture of Einstein, you Now, as I mentioned, I have We actually wrote a paper together with another Medalist at the University of Chicago. That paper I think we So I've known Langlands for many years and we we collaborated quite closely. at the Institute for Advanced Study. sometimes arguing with him. I have to say, he doesn't take any bullshit. you know, locked our horns. Well, you know, he would be And you know, I was kind of, I guess I was to prove myself. no, it is correct, you don't understand. Well, I would be biased, but I think... I think that I held my own and well, we It was published, like I said, about 2010. but his comments were always on point. you know, that even though he was already like sharp and kind of like, you know, quick on He would pick up exactly the things where example. So that's who he is. by the way, Canadian born from British Columbia. he was, you know, he lived in a small town. he would just inherit the family business install window seals and stuff like that. teacher at his school who inspired him to He went to UBC, University of British Columbia. This is after the war, you know, he was like, I'm going to live here and, you know, But his teacher, this is all according to like, notes for when he received some major awards, He said something like, his teacher shamed his classmates, saying that you have to go to if you don't go to university And he was like, okay, well, And so he enrolled in UBC, And he describes how he felt early, you know, to a lot of kids from Europe who seemed He studied, you know, in this provincial inferior to them. of fuel, like, I'm going to show these guys. he comes up with these ideas, which became So how did it happen? In fact, 1967 is the year when he formulated it was in a letter. So sometimes mathematicians would write things or if somebody was close enough, as was the who was in Princeton at the same time as of notes and they were actually handwritten. show you later, but Andre Andre Weil could not So actually he asked him to Eventually he typed it up, and I think it's you can find it online, It's not clear that Andre Andre Weil, in mathematics, a very important a professor at the Institute for Advanced Study. Institute for Advanced Study, he was But they were in the same town, I'm not sure Andre Andre Weil actually understood for Langlands to put these And then the whole thing just launched, because Xerox copies at that time, and a lot And that's how Langlands program was launched. 40 years, I wrote this book, I wrote this Langlands Correspondence for Luke Groups. to each other, even though letters are very Correspondence here means kind of like one-to-one of objects, and we will talk about this later on. book, this was published by Cambridge And the first thing, the Is that the Langlands program has emerged unified theory of mathematics. So it was a bit of a showmanship, you know, like, the most favorable light. this expression caught on. kinds of places as one who said that this So now this gave me an idea for the opening. well, first of all, your podcast So obviously you are interested It's another question whether what we But obviously it's something that is very much on And actually not only these And so in physics, that's grand unified theory. talk about all the time, right? okay, so what about mathematics? And so in what sense the Langlands And so I thought I would just take between physics and mathematics. which is actually missed by a lot of people. kind of merge the two and kind of People as in the general public or mathematicians? physicists do know. this line between the two is not clearly I think it's important to talk It's essential because this way recent controversies about string theory. a year ago on your podcast, in my opinion, But it has not been great for physics. Because the original promise of string theory was And it failed spectacularly doing so. In other words, yes, it has helped some interesting ideas and push mathematics. we will say string theory is a success, right? that mathematicians and physicists actually And there are different expectations. So what is the difference? Let's talk about this. Sure. So let me go back to the beginning of my slides. you know, what does the idea of And so I want to start with At the times of Galileo, the two Natural sciences and mathematics. The book of nature is written Right? Its characters are, the characters in and other geometric figures without which Without which one is left So in other words, mathematics Okay? talk about, so let's talk about physics. We have unified field theory, which actually Einstein to unify general relativity, the force of gravity. There were only two forces Then eventually physicists found that there the nuclear forces, subatomic forces. which describes three out of Electromagnetic, weak, and strong. But of course, a lot of questions remain. has something like 19 parameters. They feel that there are much deeper Right? physics refers to an attempt to merge these forces So for now we don't have a Strength theory promised us to give one, but they And it looks like, it doesn't look very good. your money on this. Don't put any money on this. You know, like in the markets, Shorting it is probably still a good idea, but Because more and more people kind of look at the reality of the situation and say, All right. Do you say that with any reservation theory in the past or you've published with So speaking of Forrest Gump, right? and other people that I've mentioned, I In 2007, around the time when this But see, this is the thing. mathematical ideas involved in strength theory. but more like quantum field theory Well, high dimensions is not a proper term. upside down because in strength involved is a two-dimensional field theory. of strings, right? It's like a circle. So it sweeps something two-dimensional. embeddings of what we'll discuss later. Think of the surface of a donut Okay? They're maps or embeddings into the end of these maps. But the theory itself is surface. That's weird because you're taking target space is the space-time. Normally, we So the roles kind of switch, which is kind of Now, but string theory is not just a theory of Because in string theory, once you study these surfaces. That's not enough. That's the first possible Riemann surfaces. And that involves like sphere or a surface of a donut and so on. So sphere is of genus zero. A torus is of genus two. The pretzel is of genus three. So you have topological type of Riemann surface. And then possible complex structures, basically. In fact, because the theory is what's called conformally dimensional integral over what's called on the Riemann surface. So string theory is defined on a specific Riemann surface. So like some bugs, for example. Let's say you have and you have a little spider who lives on that but okay, let's forgive me for this difference. is a sphere, is the surface of the globe. So then if it were indeed her space-time would be a Riemann surface, namely the surface of this theory yet. String theory is when you can see the and you sum up every calculation over what theory. So that's a very simple explanation of string theory. So first of all, quantum field space-time is on the receiving end of maps from So the theory effectively is two-dimensional. Then which gives us a possibility to actually sum up And it's when you sum up, you get amplitudes a very cool idea. You turn things upside down. theory. It's not the ground of the theory. It's itself is defined on Riemann surfaces. It's a kind of precipitates its own demise, string which space-time do you have to choose? So it your theory on your space-time that is given spatial and one time dimensions. But it becomes an essential condition is that the theory be which means that if you rescale your metrics And this enables you to go from an integration which is basically intractable, to Instead of the integration of all metrics, you go to the integral over which is a finite dimensional manifold, so that the integral in principle could be of singularities that need to be regularized, to do in general, actually. But at least there your space-time is a kind of an external thing is, how do you differentiate between them? How And so one condition is that the theory has to it's Calabi-Yau. So you probably heard this said is a Calabi-Yau manifold. Calabi-Yau manifold is theory of maps from your Riemann surface, say a is conformally invariant. But the problem and the problem is that string theory is only Superstring theory, to be precise. it would have to be 26-dimensional. So it's a string theory allows you to work with. So the going from bosonic string theory to sort of a balance between bosons and fermions, And 10 is much closer to 4 than 26, so you have okay, well, these six dimensions, they curl onto And the problem is that nobody has been able to a single one, but it's moving also with the these extra six dimensions. It's also changing, which nobody has been able to observe. So with experiment. Not to mention that it's in this universe. So anyway, that was a long Just to show you what the problem is, if you're a physicist, this is your job, you only have one job if you're a there are other areas of physics, statistical physics, and so on, But if you are a quantum physicist who works, or grand unified theorem... physicist in fundamental physics. one job, which is to describe this damn universe. describing all possible universes, But mathematicians are interested in all of That's the major difference. As a Or 10-dimensional spaces, if you will. They're just as good. They're my children, I don't differentiate between Or even infinite-dimensional a mathematician is interested A high-energy physicist is only And not just some generic spaces, but the Now, there may be some other and maybe this theory describes those universes. how do you find out if it's true or not? who live in 10-dimensional and say, grand unified theory of our universe. Now, I have to also add, By doing these more general theories, which you may find more difficult to And then you can try to adapt it, to So, for instance, lower-dimensional theories are So, for instance, 2-dimensional for physicists to try to develop ideas. There's a famous work by Alexander Polyakov, about instantons and 3-dimensional because it gives you a mechanism of how which we still don't understand And if we could, we would be able trying to understand why quarks cannot which is a feature of 4-dimensional gauge theory. There's this phenomenon called instantons, in 3-dimensions and in 2-dimensions But this is that province, that area of research, models in other dimensions. That's the overlap. I said Venn diagram. Something else. So, if you look at the Venn yes, there is this overlap. So, all my life I was very interested in that, I was actually very interested in And then I learned that actually to even speak about those theories. I realized that I actually But also, occasionally... SU3, that's right. The description of elementary which goes back to Maury Gell-Mann So, anyway, my work with Witten was because it was about understanding certain models and potentially string theory as well. For example, those models are supersymmetric. The geometric Langlands is in four dimensions, though. In a sense, yes. But supersymmetric theories, People think, the general as just one supersymmetry, There are perversions of supersymmetry. That's right. we study n equal 1, n equal 2, n equal 4. Supersymmetry, by the way, is a very simple idea. One of the requirements of quantum field theory The Poincare group combines the Lorentz group, or pseudo-rotations So, the Poincare group is built as what's called and the group of translations. has to be invariant under this action. the space of states, representation of this group, In a supersymmetric theory, this representation But, in fact, not a group. Because it has both bosonic degrees of freedom The bosonic degrees of freedom will stay the same. But there will be some fermionic transformations. They're kind of like little shifts. in the ordinary way. which, depending on its size, is classified as But the biggest one you can get, field theory, And that's the theory we're talking about. electromagnetic duality, gauge theory, n equals 4, in four dimensions, to the geometric Langlands correspondence, So, anyway, this was just of how similar phenomena actually arise Although, today, this phenomenon the Langlands correspondence, or Langlands duality, Langlands conjecture, they actually, so far, we to supersymmetric theories. it's mathematical physics. Yes. but now let's go back to this idea of unification. not mathematical physics, like string theory, Okay, I'm not trying to offend anybody. and I'm not a physicist, so I'm I have no horse in this I'm just like, I'm kind of an observer. you have to describe this universe, So then, in the perspective there are these notions of standard model, and theory of everything, TOE, okay? So, I guess, yes, grand unified theory. It sounds familiar, right? GUT, grand unified theory, usually references of the standard model. So, TOE means that you include gravity. Okay. Yes. this is a beautiful quote from Einstein. when he received the Nobel Prize in 1923. after an integrated theory that there exists two distinct fields other by their nature. which is a very natural human impulse. You want to reduce things to something, there is only one phenomenon many different ways, right? if you're seeking after an integrated theory. he already has the assumption That's right. because there's a philosopher who says there are different models of the world, and one is the integrated approach. where it's akin to open sets that overlap, you just have to have compatibility. and then furthermore, you could have regions No, I agree, I agree, absolutely agree, In mathematics, we do not seek, In mathematics, we do not seek We do not, actually. So, yes, so in a sense, what you described But you see, a lot of it So, when we brought up, because I studied mathematics since I was a kid, graduate school, and so on, were my teachers telling me, theory of mathematics. Nobody, first of all, I think it's impossible. There's just so many different subjects. there's another analogy I use in love and math, So, there is number theory, there's function analysis, there's geometry, And they are all connected somehow, subsume all other fields. But physicists, I've spoken physicists, oh, yes, when they are studying, that maybe I'll be the one to come up So, I'm hopeful that the will see through this and it gives you kind of a kick, it gives you kind of, but also there is a great downside. with string theory is, in many ways, to subjugate everything to what you already know. and say that they are not serious, amateurs and stuff like that. and kind of understanding what am I doing here that the theory I'm working which was an expression used for a long time. So, well, one day, it's like reality intrudes, but reality will look you in the face every day when are you going to accept reality? not accepting it, and other people will come Just a moment, why do you think, in the past, in physics, when it did produce mathematical results as well. while it's not producing physical results, testable in our range currently, and we could use that as some proxy indication What do you say to that? between mathematics and physics. where string theory has been positive because it points us to some in a whole range of theories with our universe, you see. Number one, it helps pure mathematics. to mathematicians. which we probably would not have discovered So in other words, it was some kind of mathematics in the 20th, 21st century Yes, also, these ideas, these theories, they are not useless at all. you observe some phenomena to come up with realistic theory of this universe. electromagnetic duality, which is connected to the Langlands program. which are absolutely beautiful mathematically, because they are the phenomena in theories as quantum field theories You see, they're different they are supersymmetric, and so on. that you have to put on. the clothes of your universe. You see, that's a very simple thing. in the first 10 years of That its success in mathematics gives you going and working on it because But after 40 years, after 40, actually yeah, about 40, I would say, yeah, 85 This is the first super string revolution. the Green-Schwarz constellation of anomalies. people, and I understand the human element of it. Of course, you get excited. who was it, Archimedes who jumped out of a Of course, you want to jump and run I have come up with this incredible discovery. And of course, please do After 10, 20 years, and I think the crucial online and it was clear that there's no That was the time for reckoning in the field. conversation where the adults, the elders of the not working out, and allow other ideas to come in. It's not just, yeah, please, But when you deny resources to everybody Now, I don't want to spend the whole I think it's important to talk On your podcast a year ago, on the heels or it's called challenge talk, at the big strength Toronto, I guess near where you are, in July of and I saw up close what's going on. And I spoke about the failure, what promise of strength theory. I would like to bring up the connection between or Langlands program, which is the main topic of and supersymmetric Young-Mills theories, So some people, some viewers, So how can this guy be criticizing he's saying that it's very interesting So that's why I took some time to explain of mathematicians and physicists, What is appropriate, what's not responsibility as a physicist to make sure that and not claim something that is not there. names, but you can easily find quotes where people theory of gravity with quantum field theory. And even then, it's still incomplete because of because it's only defined But let's just say that, yes, in But they don't put that in the sentence. And it's a lie if you just say And the first time you say it, it's kind of cute. it's a lie if you keep saying that. as one of the major figures in strength theory Oh, I don't know about that. Yeah? Interesting. You know, I usually, when I teach, I give A+. Like, I never give A+++, especially for problem in the exam, you know? So I wanted to explain this difference. In mathematics, we don't have this issue. It doesn't have to be in It can be 10-dimensional spacetime. But it doesn't mean that Understood. All right. So, there is another aspect of it, which And mathematical theories appear to How do you explain that? So what does mathematics actually describe? concepts and ideas in mathematics with the physical universe, with nature. four-dimensional spacetime. So, for instance, in this geometric Langlands not even functions, which are kind of is rooted deeply in the physical reality. At every point in the room, there is a at that room, or barometric pressure. And that's what mathematicians call a function. bread and butter of physics. you saw a sheave on the street, you know? Or infinidimensional Hilbert spaces, or periodic esoteric numerical systems that are bread and them in the physical reality. unification mean for mathematics, you see? you know, if Leo Tolstoy did not write written exactly the same novel. or did not discover his theorem, we It would still be a squared plus b squared And it stays the same for the last 2,500 years. was discovered by others in other places, even before Pythagoras. Whereas, for instance, our theory of going from Newtonian theory of gravity So there's something very Some mathematicians believe that there is this the Greek philosopher Plato, who, I must say, was These ideas really go back And so, the question then is usually posed as, And I used to be squarely on the side of, is this ideal world of mathematical objects almost like ESP, like extrasensory perception. world and discover and bring back the fruits than Charles Darwin actually wrote that mathematicians are endowed wrote that. Closer to the end of his life, he mathematics more as a young adult, or as a a direct quote, mathematicians are endowed with and I have to say, as a working mathematician, asked me, like, how do you experience it? How And so the best I could come up with is that, You know there's something there, but you part of it, the mist kind of starts dissolving, castle or some exotic animals, and then maybe that you have. You don't feel that you invent with something just on your own. You feel by our inability to see it, it was invisible. also feel that mathematics is a human activity. just say, yeah, it's discovered, it's just out ideas? Human mathematicians, right? And so, do. Apparently, some animals can count up But for now, all the mathematics that we know to be said about that. Now I feel it's a mystery. and both. An electron is both a particle and But it's a very interesting thing to think the great logician, the greatest logician that mathematical ideas form an objective or change, but only perceive and describe. Of about artificial intelligence and so on. But to get to the Langley's program. So, well, of mathematics. I don't know if we should go You want to say it quickly? just to give you a sense of how weird mathematics question. Is there only one mathematics, or universe, not another universe, like another and they have their own mathematics. What if we meet and we start comparing our notes? Is different? And so the traditional argument that this new civilization has many different of pictures of these aliens. So then they of like similar to us. So naturally, we start idea that there are many things which are you have a Solaris-type intelligence? Solaris science fiction writer, and it's been made also was a Hollywood remake of this movie, where the intelligence was this one thing, then the argument goes, there is no reason to come up with numbers no need for it to develop the idea of numbers. things to count. But I have an answer to that, and I want to actually discover numbers. Not by counting the which by the way, I think there are some subtle additional multiplication, but that's another but I can talk about it later. So here is which is more clean in some sense, and kind of of teaching kids numbers from counting. You see, so this comes from what's called So the point is that I can take, I put it on my I can go twice, I can go three times, four times, in principle, I can wind this string any number numbers, one, two, three, four, and so on, but if I go in the opposite direction. You see? And so this way I can actually introduce all that the topological structure, that if I I would have to move the strings through my strings through my finger, between winding the string once, In the Solaris case, what would be the analogy? So the analogy in Solaris case is that or you can think of my finger, you can just look at the So kind of the intersection And then you can look at this picture where basically the circle like many times, right? a sphere can wrap onto itself many times. because you see, you can easily see it but in 3D, it's very hard to imagine But you kind of can grasp it by analogy, gives us an invariant, what topological invariant, Likewise, there is an invariant of a map And the coverings of sphere by sphere because also there are two orientations possible, so you get both positive This is a rough rendering of This is an example of what's So in fact, here, this corresponds to the pi one, And here, we're talking about pi two. you're talking about pi two, When you have a circle, and that's the first homotopy group, Anyway, this is just a kind of something of mathematics there are, like counting. can actually arise from different In first approach, you get so kind of from the point of But in the second approach- discovery of mathematics. Discovery, but this is a This is what I mean by unification in mathematics, actually live on the intersection of two fields, Ah, cool, right. from these two different points of view. In other words, you're not trying to say or the other way around, which are reflected in both fields, And that's why it's prized in mathematics because it gives you a different perspective. but from a different angle. of great discoveries are made, from these two different angles, So for me, mathematics is where you're kind of trying to build this picture without really knowing what this final picture And so, when you do a jigsaw, usually the strategy is to So you try to, you find a and you try to enlarge them, And so then, at some point, islands in this picture, right? But the greatest advance happens different islands together, And it is like that. So Langley's program is like this, which suggest how different That's kind of like a brief Great. so then what are the continents And so you have number theory, which is obvious. which is this very important idea in mathematics, as a superposition, a signal. as a superposition of some basic signals. what's called harmonics, which are multiples of each other. with the terms Fourier series, What I'm referencing right now where you can write a given function of sine and cosine functions. but sine nx and cosine nx, So different sine functions But as you increase n, it And so that corresponds to in the sine, right? essentially the frequencies Not quite, there is a gap, But roughly speaking, you can generate them the frequency doubles where the frequency gets multiplied And by using this, you can with a small gap at the end But if it's by rational, it kind of a smallest denominator frequency So that brings you into that framework can see the notes which are multiples of each other, And then if you think about an orchestra playing, is a combination of sounds And each sound of an instrument at any moment and that note has a frequency. of breaking into pieces of a sound into a combination of different notes, And that's the idea of Fourier So that's the subject which studies So what do we need here? And you need some preferred functions, like sine nx and cosine nx. to give you every function as a superposition. which is called the Fourier integral These bubbles appear by the way. These bubbles, it means that the AI overlords It did some harmonic analysis on that. It's at a meta level realizing. That you're in sync with it, yes. Okay, so you're outlining, there's topology, there's Geometry, so you have this Riemann surface string theory, And so what is the Langlands program? aimed at finding common patterns And so the original formulation by Langlands in that letter to Andrew Bay two specific fields, number theory on one side But not harmonic analysis in the naive sense or on the line, you see. a baby version of harmonic analysis. multi-dimensional spaces, instead of the real line and the cosine functions will be played And the example which is relevant to this Modular forms on the upper half plane We'll talk about this in a moment. if the Langlands program was just that, to questions in harmonic analysis, But what happened is that over the years, started discovering very similar patterns as well. we actually have Langlands program but also in these other fields, And so now to circle back in the geometric Langlands correspondence. Geometric Langlands correspondence appeared of original ideas of Langlands, and adopting them in the Riemann surfaces like this. it's connected to physics so there are these models of quantum physics So that's two-dimensional. There is a way to connect to the theories defined on these Riemann surfaces. But that's roughly why. and not the original one. whereas the geometric one has to do and that's much closer to the kind of stuff high-energy physicists are studying, All right. that I already showed before. is kind of about building bridges And as a baby version of it, Natural numbers, or whole numbers, from homotopy groups, So that's a bridge between the two fields, right? of unification in mathematics. more sophisticated program, at a much more abstract level. consists of finding hidden connections, between areas of mathematics That's what unification is about in mathematics, which subsumes everything. It's bridge-making. mathematics is for you. All right. So remember I mentioned how Langlands letter to Andre Andre Weil. an important part later on He was a great mathematician, a French-born, and has been a professor at the where Einstein was a professor, So he was the luminary in this field, that he should run these ideas W-E-I-L is how we spell his name. is also Herman Weil. Another great mathematician who was also Study at the same time. and it's pronounced Weil, How is it? So Andre Andre Weil, that to whom Langlands wrote his letter, Like Weil spinors. Like Weil spinors, W-E-Y-L spinors. No, the Weil spinors is due to, Yeah. But here we are talking about someone Right, right, right. because he is from France, without pronouncing the last You say Andre Weil, Andre Andre Weil. Whereas Herman Weil was German, in a German fashion, Weil. More like Weil. Weil, right, Weil. W-I-L-E-S. So, as if mathematics was not already confusing, that are really hard to tell apart, you know? For people like myself and yourself, It never even occurred to me that would be confused with Andre Weil. Andrew Wiles is very close to the subject. If they all worked in areas that would be one thing. their works are overlapped considerably. Actually, he was a kind of a polymath. Andre Andre Weil, algebraic So it's very close to Andrew Wiles. was actually based on the proof Shimura-Taniyama-Andre Weil conjecture, So you have both Andre Weil You see? Bear with us. Yes, in the meanwhile, we have this letter. So Robert Langlands, imagine, he is 30 or 31. So this is like January of 67. So he's a 30-year-old man, very ambitious. a really tough guy, And he meets Andre Andre Weil in And he hands him this letter. It's like 30 pages, okay, handwritten. right now is a cover page, of the Institute for Advanced Study, Not yet at that time. at the Institute for Advanced Study. He was a professor at Princeton University. So it's hard to make out, He says, Professor Andre Weil, to come and talk, I wrote the enclosed letter. was hardly a statement If you are willing to read it as pure speculation, If not, I am sure you have a wastebasket handy. I'm kind of a showman, a little bit, you know. I would have so much anxiety sending that What happened, my understanding is, I mean, I looked at it a lot and it's quoted in the book. actually, Andre Andre Weil, he sent a message through could you please type the letter, Yeah, if you look at the handwriting, Anyway, so here's where we are. and we have Robert Langlands, of the 20th century. He's 30 years old. Andre Andre Weil was not really his mentor, and Langlands felt that he the first one to judge his new ideas, right? was an attachment, you know, like a PDF file to Andre Andre Weil, he actually wrote the letter by hand. And so, but there are several to get to the recent work by about the proof of the we have to make a number of steps. the story becomes more and more abstract So I feel that I have to give an example because otherwise it feels like, I want to give an example Langlands actually was trying to solve, in solving them. Yeah, and the link to the recent work Okay, and so to explain this, a clock arithmetic, okay? we have to recall what's And the clock arithmetic is where, let's say, in North we don't, 12 o'clock, we don't say 13 o'clock, We don't say 14, but we say two, right? differ by a multiple of 12. with any number of hours. when the clock has p hours, because then the addition with this identification of what we call a field. you have a clock with seven hours. So effectively, the only are zero, one, two, three, four, five, six, You can add two numbers like this. then that's your answer. you replace it by a number in this range, And likewise with multiplication. arithmetic modulo, a prime number. And so the next notion that we have to introduce So an elliptic curve, for our purposes right now, of the kind that is written on the slide. and the highest power that you raise Y to is two, And so that's like a normal So what is the solution of this equation? such that the left-hand side, will be equal to what you by substituting number X, right? And so typically, we could say, okay, well, Or it could be complex numbers. If we do, to solutions in complex numbers, what we're going solutions is more or less the surface of a So a particular genus, not just any genus. I see. curve of genus one is called elliptic curve. Or is that some result that'll take us off course? work. And honestly, to get the entire at infinity. So without that, it will be the gives the name. Elliptic curve is traditionally But since we look at this as the same equation, system, we also call it an elliptic curve Over a certain field. It's the nomenclatures over a field. So in other words, let's say you have a basket. You pull out one of the balls. It's ball number Another one is ball number 12. You're like, this is the integer basket. So now you're thinking, okay, so if put it into my equation, and it comes this is the elliptic curve over the integers and it's modulo primes, you pull it out, it's 4, over and over, and you have the modulo prime That's the term. The phraseology is you have people, what are the balls that I'm putting into That's the field that it's over. numerical system, right? This modulo p. because it has coefficients which are, 1 make sense modulo p as well. makes sense modulo p, where p is a prime. or modulo 5? It would be a solution in which right-hand side on the nose, but they differ by a 7, if p is 5, by a multiple of 5. You see? solutions modulo a prime p for every prime. So that's the equation, right? And so take p x equals 0, y equals 0 is a solution. It's side is 0, right-hand side is 0. Or x equals this is 0 and this is 0. But Why do you mean on the nose? Do you mean No, they're actually equal to each other. You see? But here's an example of something which equals 4. Let's calculate. y squared is going to for this choice, right? And the right-hand side and the right-hand side is 0. If we wanted to then this would not be a solution because they right-hand side. But in our new world of clock other because in this new numerical system, it would not be because modulo 7, 21 So that's how you see that it is let's suppose you calculate how many solutions to just plug in all possible values for x and y, right-hand side and see when the results differ that these are the only solutions. So there are which is an x prime number, and you address the see that all the previous calculations are first two will still give you solutions modulo going to be helpful because the fact that differ by a multiple of 5 is not going they differ by a multiple of 7. So it's every prime number has its own quirks, and for of solutions. And so the question is, can you somehow? Obviously, for very small p's, you can you can easily write a computer program, say, to But try to do it for all p. And so this is where gives you a completely unexpected solution And it's a really good example because it absolutely out of the blue, out of the left field, So let's arrange this in the table. 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, we have the number for you. For 5, we found 4, and these are the numbers for But it turns out that it's better to consider this number, which is kind of the difference itself. So p minus the number of solutions. If you look at... these numbers grow almost linearly with p. It's a kind of an error, because naively solutions, because after You have two free variables, right? For example, if p is 5, you have 0, 1, 2, because 5 is 0, right? for x and you have 5 values for y. But you have one equation, which So you have 5 squared because there But there is one equation. you could say the number of solutions should And number of solutions close to... you have an equation, right? it's defined by one equation. the plane, the plane has x and y, two But if you write the equation, So the equation drops a dimension by one. two equations usually drop by two and so on. envelope calculation. this new world means p possibilities. Two-dimensional means 25, So that's how you come up with this one equation should give you And then you say, okay, well, So the actual numbers, p minus Then of course, once you understand explanation why this is a good number to consider. but let's just stick with that. This number is ap, so ap is So it's not exactly the number of between p and the number of solutions. But of course, if you know ap, then you you simply take, you know, the number So the two problems are So what we're going to describe is not but we're going to describe equivalent to the original problem. numbers can be described all at once So remember I said the original was in relating or connecting The problem we have discussed with in the field of number theory, right? doing is arithmetic with numbers. right-hand side, modular prime, and so on. functions of some special kind. come together, number theory Consider the following infinite product. but if you look closely, you will So q is a variable. That's the traditional notation. variable is traditionally denoted by q. It's just like, in every field- and then it gets mapped to q I don't know why, it's weird. field which is called quantum groups, And interestingly enough, there are in arithmetic a long time ago, or where for some reason people chose the variable q. for example, in quantum algebra. Because when you translate them, you don't So it's a mystery. did it with q and it caught on. in this theory for this variable. Just for the sake of explaining, this function here, q times 1 minus that also looks like it's dropped from the sky. going to say that this- But first I want to give the answer, okay? So first I have to explain what it is, So first of all, there is this q, you just Then you have this guy, this guy, this What do they look like? This is q to the first power, This is 1 minus q squared, squared, right? So each of these terms is a square of 1 minus q squared, 1 minus q So you can easily guess the next squared, and so on, right? Then in addition, you have these squared, q to the 33 squared. 11, 22, 33, right? So you have one progression where you the fourth, and every time you put progression, the first one is underlined blue, and you got here q to the 11, q to square it. First, you will have 1 minus q to the minus q to the five squared. Now, in principle, you could say, okay, brackets? So this dot, dot, dot means But the point is that the So if you're interested in just the and so on, there will only be finitely For example, q is already there, so q give you q. because every other term will have q times q to So that's how you know for sure that What about q squared? this is 1 minus 2q plus q squared. So you see there is minus 2q, and this minus 2q This. And there is no other way in which you can what I'm trying to say is The coefficient in front of every finite power, well-defined, is a combination of things that even though the whole thing is infinite, you see? affect a particular power of q when we open where you have each power of q has a particular in front of q, you have 1. In front of q squared, this path, you will see that the coefficient in fourth is 2, and so on, right? So what does And the amazing thing is that as the coefficient in front of q So for example, in front of q Okay, and so this doesn't work for the For what? For the non-prime numbers, it doesn't work. information than we needed, coefficients in front of non-prime powers. corresponds to, which can be answered as well. Is that information about what it corresponds There's some more intricate properties necessary to understand the original question. the coefficients in front of prime powers. And these numbers ap that we have in this. Let's And that's the coefficient Yes. coefficient in front of q cubed. Remember, we're not considering 4, So we don't care about the coefficient But we do care about the coefficient And this coefficient is 1, which Which, by the way, is what we found, But remember, ap is not the number of So p here is 5. And so p minus 4 is 1. in front of q to the 5. minus 2. And that's exactly what we have here. And that's exactly what we get. we should get 4. And that's what we get. No human being can ever go through Which is infinite, because there This is a well-known fact. It's So no human being can actually behold However, they are all defined. So... Any element of this infinite sequence, right? corresponds to the right-hand side. It doesn't tell you that it or from 2 to, you know, the It actually tells you that it's true for every p. And that statement contains within It's amazing if you think about it. And so we call it finding order in seeming chaos. the p's power of q in this infinite series, which is p minus number of solutions. And so what happens is a kind of a because just one... Think and I explained how this... How So there's some regularity here. It's a finite amount of information. where i is equal to 1, So you have q squared times q squared squared, So these are this term, this And then do the same with So q to the 11, q to the 22, q to the 33. It's extremely easy to program it on the computer. In such a way that for any that you have access to on your computer, that you can actually store it, the coefficient in front of q to the p. It's going to be exactly the number of solutions... minus number of solutions That's an example of the Langlands program. It's the simplest, most beautiful example. He's a great mathematician. He was a co-author of Andrew solving Fermat's last theorem. And it's in my book as well. So if you want to... If you want to know more, to learn that's where you can find it. just for people who are listening And in one of the early chapters, you which is something you learn But it's covered in one of the early chapters. That's why I talk about it, right? something which nobody knew. We talked about whether mathematicians Certainly, in that moment, I But anyway, so what I'm trying to say is us a simple rule for solving this infinite once. Remember I said, to me, unification in mathematics different fields, which seem to be far apart. and the field of harmonic analysis. talk about what is this product? And so the point is that when we talked about a formal expression. But actually, it turns out that we can assign converge. many numbers, it turns out that this product And not in a kind of esoteric sense, as like the rigid, precise, rigorous sense The product of finitely many terms of this, is actually going to have a But only if Q is a number between minus 1 Or we could also work with a complex unit disk. because they have both real and imaginary And every complex number has a norm, which is of this number as a point on a So for example, number i has norm 1, If you take all numbers whose norm is less of a unit disk, right? view it as a complex number, and substitute in well-defined number. This product will have a limit, you see? For every Q, we get a specific value, So we get a function on a unit disk, And the point is that it has very special of symmetries of the unit So instead of explaining exactly how this show you how a similar group acts by showing So the action of a group like this, it's actually is not exactly the same subgroup, So here's what I'm talking about. Which we... Can you go back to slide 40? defined on the complex unit disk. It's like this, right? To all of complex numbers. Upper half plane. has two axes, x and y, where if you have a point it number x plus yi. number assigned to a point, right? number i here, you have number minus one here, And then you can draw this circle of radius one. inside this circle, you see. The condition is that q is less than one, is less than one. My question is, where is it going to? For every q, which is like this, this function any restrictions. And it's unique? It's unique, absolutely. So when we say function, we mean single value to every q some complex number. by the property that it is within the unit The value, the only constraint is that it's defined. So SL2Z, yes. Before I explain this, let's look So at the simpler example, namely the harmonic talked about sounds of music, right? sine nx and cosine nx, where n is an integer. on the circle, so they're periodic functions, the value will be the same. And the point is, so the invariant And the point is that harmonic analysis allows us any continuous function, let's say, That's called Fourier series. And you can think about it as decomposing into the notes of different instruments, in time. because it plays music in time. is a wave, like sine of nx or cosine of nx. that these notes are approximately proportional The frequencies of these notes are proportional With rational multiples, more precisely. denominator, so that it will be just... So that's the setup of harmonic analysis. is the fact that actually What's special about these is that they are invariant under the shift, But if so, it's also invariant under the shift, For example, 4pi, 6pi, 8pi, minus 2pi, and so on. that actually there is a group of symmetries when you talk about these functions. this function is defined on the real line. And so your function is going or a sine function. It's a wave, like this. you see, if you shift it by this amount, it will stay the same, right? from here to here. this point goes to here, That's what I mean by being invariant, right? and then in part two we can go Yeah, I do, I do, I do. because it's really basic and beautiful stuff. under which the whole thing goes to itself. Let's say that I'm writing the basic one, And then the sine two xa, they will oscillate under this shift. invariant under the shift by four pi. which would be like twice this. So as a result, it's invariant and all of the shifts gives you an action And what I would like to focus on fundamental domain of this action. is just this interval. when we talked about arithmetic module of five, by a multiple of five. one, two, three, four. by adding to one of those, And likewise now, on this picture, just on this interval, So that's called the fundamental domain. domain. it's not the only fundamental domain. fundamental domains, be from this point to this point, They all have lengths two pi. So here on the unit disk, there is another group, which plays the role in our baby version, which is here. And the analogs of these intervals both red and white. It acts by hyperbolic transformations. it exchanges different triangles. with points in other red you see. you a rough idea of the special properties This function, which is obtained that solved for us all the counting problems This function that we obtained from this series actually has special symmetry properties Which is similar to how sine and cosine functions of a much simpler group, Z being the integers, you see. And again, if you want to know more, in chapter seven of Love and Math and so on. of what is so special about this function. Is two, you said here, or is it one? The weight, because modular forms have a weight. Weight is two because, roughly speaking, so it's like two-dimensional. in the background. Now, this is actually, so Remember, what we are There is one counting problem. It was y squared plus y equals x cubed minus x. We get a number of solutions, by subtracting it from p. front of prime powers of q Can we generalize it? In other words, you were just so that y cubed minus y squared equals x cubed, That's right, that's right. Then, you, from that, asked, well, what are the number of solutions in modulo prime, That's right. actually, you took a modified form of that That's right. between that and a modular form. Now, you're wondering. which we could actually write out explicitly. okay, well, that was for one elliptic curve. Is there a class of elliptic curves Does it work for every single Exactly, every, every smooth, every, every smooth. It is, actually, works for So, there is some kind of condition, So, there are lots of equations you can write Infinitely many, in fact. for each of them, there will which will encode numbers save maybe finitely many. Actually, every single prime, Matching with the coefficients. finitely many prime numbers But, okay, it's not a big of other primes for which it will work, you see. Shimura-Taniyama-Andre Weil conjecture. So, this is the 1950s. Yutaka Taniyama and Goro Shimura, of that infamous letter They were actually at a conference in Japan. Remember, this is after World War II. mathematicians were isolated This was essentially the first meeting And it was extremely influential. in two cities, in Tokyo and Nikko. going from Tokyo to Nikko, or And who do you see here? This is Yutaka Taniyama, committed suicide at the age of 31. And so, if you're interested, This is Goro Shimura, another who actually worked most of his life And this is Jean-Pierre You see a beautiful picture, huh? And so, the Shimura-Taniyama conjecture, what is it again? So, it's a statement that what we call the elliptic or elliptic curve of the rationals, Every cubic equation of the kind we considered in the world of modular forms. and also satisfy some additional condition. which I'm not going to get into it. condition. And it turns out that there's a bijection. One-to-one correspondence. One-to-one correspondence. there is its own cubic whose counting problem will be given modular form at prime powers, And conversely, for every cubic equation, to give the solution So, that's the kind of things we're talking about. And how did they come up with Like now we look back after so many years, It looks kind of, yeah, sure, it makes sense. Just the fact that there it doesn't mean that there should be And yet there is. And to add to the kind of I want to mention that Fermat's last theorem In 1986, my colleague here proved that if you can show then you get Fermat's last theorem. I imagine most of the viewers have heard about. with positive integer numbers. so Fermat's last theorem was on the margin of Diophantus' book, And he wrote famously on the margin but the margin is too small to contain it. people tried to prove it, only to have their hopes dashed. Until finally in 1996, Ken Ribet, was able to relate it to something, which is the Shimura-Taniyama-Weil conjecture In fact, we talked about one specific example but the Shimura-Taniyama-Weil conjecture It services every cubic equation which is of weight two and a new form. is the Shimura-Taniyama-Weil conjecture, and Richard Taylor 1995, I believe, right? follows from Shimura-Taniyama-Weil. of the Langlands program. is a vast generalization Because our one example a particular cubic equation which was given by the infinite product. is a vast generalization of that satisfying some conditions and modular forms. of the Langlands program. you see, that's what it's about. was about this type of questions in number theory in terms of much more easily tractable questions Now, I have a feeling that we're approaching I feel like we won't be able unless we talk all day, you know? to have a second installment We have now a very nice, We see now an example of what this is about, So this will give us motivation and to think about generalizations moving it away from questions in number theory that are related to Riemann And that will bring us up to date of these recent papers that we talked about. So here's what we'll do. if you have any questions, because then this way we can pull from them And a quick question I have is, if I have a question in number theory, Right. that if there's a question in harmonic analysis. It's much more easily solved there and Interestingly enough, such questions did emerge then initially it looked like And so this is kind of an advantageous approach Not all number theoretic questions, mind you. there is no misunderstanding. theory can be formulated in these terms. Very specific questions like Right? and more like a bridge between a city in one It's more than a city. A province? Like California. It's like a big state in the country. All right. Well, if we talk about continents- The point of it being it's It's a proper subset, but it's a very big subset. for now we think it's a subset, but In a sense, it is much more than just a subset important. is not in terms of equations that we did on It's in terms of the Galois group. So Galois group is a very And Galois group is, roughly speaking, describes get out of rational numbers. A divided by B, like one half or three fifths. solutions of various polynomial equations As a result, we get what's called And one could argue, and I think this is a number theory boils down to a problem Now if you accept that, Langlands program more or less gives you an answer to groups because it describes of the Galois group for all dimensions. two-dimensional representations that have But in fact, the conjectures cover a much groups. it's not a big exaggeration that we are It's not a city for sure. It's much more. It's a big half of the country maybe. So it is really serious. I understood. I didn't mean to diminish its importance. I'm not trying to. so I don't have a horse in this. champing at the bit thinking like, oh, I wish that the recent results about, why don't you Yeah, let me give a teaser. So first of all, well, that's the kind The cubic equations are connected to modular representation of Galois group is what's called and this generalize this. I mean I come into Langland's program more from So this is something that I don't So it's kind of like more of a hobby, But now we're going to move closer to what for the last four years. a graduate student audience in math or physics. So first there is one twist, which I haven't dual group. called a Lie group, appearing on both sides, One of them is a dual, so-called dual. of the indications that there's something These Lie groups are described So there's some beautiful combinatorics, And so finally we get to the crucial point, theory and about how the questions in number harmonic analysis, right? which is called the Rosetta Stone of math, That's the guy to whom Robert Langlands Andre Weil, in turn, wrote a letter to his and a mystic and a humanist He was jailed because he refused to And Andre Weil, in this letter, formulated mathematics, number theory, curves of So that's not the same kind So Langlands' correspondence is from But number theory has analogs And so the question arose as to whether there guy and for this guy. That's right. occurred, but in fact, for a different reason. The reason why what occurred here is not But remember, we had one equation which So in fact, it was an equation over the And that's what enabled us to relate it So in other words, here, the truth is that what curve. the integers, or the field of rational numbers. you attach to it a curve over all primes, All primes. with a specific, with a fixed prime. Even though the same objects appear here and in a different, they have different meanings. kind of have different interpretation, with Okay, so there are three relationships here. and then there's curves over finite field surfaces to something else, not defined yet. So we have to find, and this is a question, realms? That's right. And so, you see, the point is, actually, to be because these two areas are so close to each of the harmonic analysis that There are already connections going downward, and then from number theory to Riemann surfaces? So you see, horizontally, it's Because we saw that for that cubic equation, a particular modular form, right? modular primes, can be expressed as coefficients So it is not just an analogy, it's actually So horizontal is a correspondence, where one to object on the right. not a correspondence, it's an analogy. theory questions like that should also be for curves over a finite field. also be true for Riemann surfaces. You see? Why vague? I got you. Andre, vague. So Andre, vague's genius was to see the analogy see them kind of like as a dream, but in fact so-called, you know, the way conjectures, Which is kind of Riemann hypothesis for this by various people, including Alexander But here we're not talking about that. generalization of this Langlands correspondence, in the original field and for this field. That's the idea. is relatively easy, and it was actually clear But to go here is complicated. Okay, so we've lingered on slide 50 for too long. rapidly, can you go over just for Yeah. So look, Rosetta Stone is going like this, Number theory. Here I have a nice picture of Evariste Galois, I said. equations like this, but for a fixed prime. And it's not just about solutions of this, and only for a fixed prime. kind of geometrical objects that are associated So here I want to... and perhaps this is where it's kind of going to be But I want to quote Andrew Andrew Andre Weil wrote, my work consists Remember the actual Rosetta Stone? texts in three different languages about the And archaeologists were able to decipher texts referenced So that's an apt analogy, that he was Trilingual because of these three Number theory, curves over finite And of each of the three colons, I have some ideas about each of the three great differences in meaning In the several years I have worked at it, I And I want to quote another place from that of mathematicians, how at first you come up And it's all very vague at that But eventually some of it may work out and which is a rigorous bona fide theory. not only what is gained when you go from this He says, when this happens, gone are the two some kind of nebulous analogies, but which Gone their troubles and delicious Their furtive caresses, remember he's French, but one theory whose majestic Nothing is more fertile Nothing gives more pleasure to the connoisseur. and the kindling of the senses. knowledge is acquired, we attain indifference. the sacred text of Hinduism, he actually spent he met personally Gandhi, so he was a very And he's referencing Gita here, in Gita And then he goes, that's my favorite part, So I think it's a good place to take a break. I think this will be a good the Langlands Correspondence in these until eventually we'll arrive at the Geometric which I will also talk about, the so-called which are the versions of the Wonderful. I have to get you to expand So that to me sounds like a difference Because in Buddhism, they would say that or more specifically attachment. Though still And here it says the pleasure comes from it. Yeah. Well, suffering comes from that's the Buddhist idea, from can you have an illusion without an An illusion is something... You know how in both there is this concept of maya. The And so in a sense, we have our You know? So I think that I kind of see In other words, there is a play. There is a by the way, in terms of discussion about what is human consciousness and artificial intelligence. And so there is a temptation, given how powerful on, of artificial intelligence, it's very tempting can do. And I disagree. I think that the work of Robert Langlands, Alexander Grothendieck, and are really points of departure from what is discoveries can be made by simply reshuffling It comes from somewhere else. It comes from this But all of us, mathematicians, scientists in what we love, we all know this feeling of when you are not in control anymore, when possessed by something, by an idea, perhaps, that's what it's all about. It's about as humans when we let ourselves to do Thank you, Professor. I'm Okay, well, I'm enjoying it, as you can see. about this all day, but I also feel that at overwhelming, and so I think that it's a good continuation. Firstly, thank you for watching. Curt Jaimungal.org, and that being that large platforms like YouTube, reason, whenever they like. That's just part of ensures that I have an untrammeled communication PDF of my top 10 TOEs. It's not as Quentin haven't subscribed or clicked that like button, subscribe, each like, helps YouTube push this helps out Curt directly, aka me. I also found out the algorithm, which means that whenever you share etc., it shows YouTube, hey, people are talking turn greatly aids the distribution on YouTube. and subreddit for Theories of Everything, respectfully about theories, and build as a in the description. Fourthly, is on iTunes, it's on Spotify, it's on all of the Theories of Everything and you'll find it. and podcasts. I also read in the comments that, how about instead you re-listen on those platforms podcast catcher you use. And finally, if you'd more content like this, then do consider visiting whatever you like. There's also PayPal, there's Again, keep in mind, it's support from the full-time. You also get early access to ad-free in the case of Patreon, video in the case of listening to right now was released a few days think. Either way, your viewership is