It's time to answer the question of do I regret buying my Rivian after 2 years and 22,000 miles? There's also how long have my tires lasted, spoiler alert, I've saved on gas, and what There's a lot to go over. This video is sponsored by Anker, When I bought my Rivian 2 years and 22,000 miles ago, which gives me Tires, however, aren't included in that warranty, about 21,000 miles, which is about half the They could have lasted a tad Rivian suggests rotating them every 7,500 or so, reasons to bring the truck into the shop, My new tires are Wrangler Duratrac RTs from Trail Built Off-Road. This video is not sponsored, Street tires also would have lasted much The reason tires need to be rotated is that and in conserve mode, the front tires also do all the driving, when you add in the road friction of steering a 7,000 take way more abuse than the rear tires, which These Duratracks cost about $1,700, about but the Duratracks have and also a slightly lower max top speed. So I'll just have to keep my time Instead of going to the shop this time around, and balance Personally, I've had a suspicious feeling that the Pirellis, the same tires mounted to my wife's Tesla, They are great tires, super grippy, but because tires are expensive. These are still 3peak, so I can continue and the metal weights we are adding to so the wheels don't vibrate at high speeds. Having Rivian Service come out to mount and warranty $100 is pretty expensive compared to a normal shop, depending on how much you don't want And it's nice that Rivian even has a mobile One thing that was covered under warranty was my bed cover, within the About 6 months ago I got the replacement cover installed at the service center, which is about an hour from my house. And thankfully Rivian again acquiesced how the repair was done. A little coil gun warms up the bolts to soften the Loctite, and then the whole rear seat comes out. You'll notice that behind the seat is one of These are all being phased out in the new refreshed Rivian has consolidated the 17 controllers It's pretty wild that the whole truck Hold on to that one so it The 4 bolts that are holding in the back And I didn't know these existed, but they have head of the bolt that keeps the water out. And once we remove those bolts, we have to to secure the new cassette. We have the old tonneau cover next to the new tonneau cover, and the way it works is actually surprisingly simple. There's a series of slats inside of this and a little motor rotates some gears The problem though is that the springs on the to push the slats upwards so they The gears would get misaligned, The solution They simply You can see the old version has 2 springs, providing enough upward force on the slats Now we got to get back in place. Tonneau cover's in place. Before we put the bed panels back on though, So this is for the air compressor, and it's released The air compressor is down in this hole. And over here we have the 120 volt wiring It's always fun Alright, we are going to run the tonneau These rails are still loose right now so we up after this extends itself. See if it works. That's awesome. Going back in. It's crazy that each one of these little just gets like stacked on top of each other that little box which is bolted in from the It's been about 6 months since the repair yet so thumbs up for that. So if you remember, I personally accidentally broke the lip off of my tailgate, and apparently there's been some Namely this lip right here, But then also we have beefier clips here My truck is one of the first 2,000 Rivians that there would be some risk and But I'm glad that these little revisions are of them when I need new parts. And it's nice I can take advantage of the Now that the tonneau cover is replaced, A few days after buying my truck, my I have a giant deeper groove running through been that way for about 2 years. This was cracked by two different Utah has quite a lot of construction going on and as we know, Cosmetic defects don't bother me a whole lot, In order to remove the windshield, we basically These pieces of trim, which are Turns out the windshield replacement is rather intense, for us since again we get We don't have to remove that to take out the windshield, a couple of minutes We have the rear drive unit way down there So you know you have the charge port The larger cables are for the DC fast charging you know, wall outlet. We also have the two 12 volt batteries, the air filter, down here which Always fun seeing how things work, The windshield wipers do need to come and the rear view mirror Up here underneath We have the rear view mirror mount. We have two cameras here and here. And then we also, which I didn't know this had, of the glass over top of the cameras And there is a secondary heater right here that and heats And finally, a really thin wire is slipped between all the And with how thick and strong the adhesive is, With the glass removed, the and the electronics are transported Thick black new adhesive is applied in one continuous bead so there won't be any gaps in the waterproofing. These are alignment pins to make sure These are standoffs a certain distance from the vehicle. And with some large suction cups, the The adhesive has to cure for about a day which is all This particular repair, which is unavoidable, The only thing that's broken and that I accidentally left the ball on my hitch and I lowered That is my bad, but I don't feel bad. I use my truck as a truck hauling horsepower, and mechanical horses. My wife let me buy the nice truck as strange as they might be. The interior has no wear issues. The exterior but I'm sure I could get that adjusted You can see the paint chip around the upper But honestly, with about 150,000 I'm not worried about much of anything. One thing Rivian has not still tries to juice up my tape measure. I'm not too worried about it though Anker for good reason has Nobody does mobile charging better. These 3-in-1 chargers have a built-in AC plug, so it's easy The small ones have 5,000 milliamp hours and the larger one are 10,000 with 30 watt fast charging, giving an iPhone As a fun fact, I would need about 3,000 underneath this truck, but the battery underneath The USB-C cable doubles as a little handle and can withstand 10,000 bins, and the same cable If you have a friend there's an open USB-C port or as a pass through to get your phone So if you need a new portable charger, number one mobile charging brand on the planet, I'll leave a link down in the description. When I first got the truck, but I actually used the built-in cable among with securing have to chat about at a later date. As for the dirt collecting underneath the bed, This is where the dirt was falling down and accumulating Getting caught in the bumper and the Anytime I would haul gravel, small souvenirs would get caught underneath. All you see here is what's been And there is a lot. Rivian definitely designed the R1T as more of but here I am using it as a work truck. Cause it's collecting dirt. You and It's definitely something to keep in mind if you How much money have I saved by driving an And the answer is not a whole lot. With gas being as cheap as it is right now, if we were to similar to what a gas I would have used about 1,100 gallons worth of fuel over that 22,000 miles, which would have cost 3,800. Now I have solar on my house, so my electric miles But it would take quite a long time to offset the Driving for free is pretty cool though. There's also no oil changes, which has That savings though is costing more than gas powered vehicles. Uncle Sam needs to recoup the money which is totally fine with me. EV owners should help pay for the maintenance And pretty much every state at this point has those special EV registration fees, not just Utah. If I had to pick just one word though to describe it would be fantastic. The truck The nice thing about so many features the truck I own now is completely different They've completely giving me all the I do wish there was some numerical data, to go alongside the visual animations, The recording everything that goes on around me. It does fit two and I guess if we need Honestly, I was pretty and it has just kept on getting better. Now we have the Rivian supercharging network, and I've had no major maintenance issues, for it being among the first 2,000 And it is absolutely wild that this with a Lamborghini while Nobody can tell on the outside worth of power underneath the hood, So to answer the question, do I regret my Rivian after two years and 22,000 miles now that every electric The answer is most definitely not. I have enjoyed every mile and I Thank you Rivian for making an epic truck, and thanks a ton for watching. I'll see you around.