- I'm gonna show you to use canned biscuit dough. I'm gonna start with casseroles. Now, a lot of breakfast or croissants or something like that. Why not use a can of biscuits and this is probably a So just like you would in any other of your favorite cube the bread and place You're just gonna do that I like to top this with I love using canned biscuits because no soaking and no Next up, stuff 'em. You can call this turnovers, Today, I'm calling it a calzone. These work great with All you wanna do is and then fill it with Today, I'm gonna make mini calzones. These make great easy Just pop these on a tray and and dinner is served. Biscuits are not just These calzones are great because kids can customize and these are super easy. While we're on the topic of stuffing them, my next trick is to make The great thing about these muffins is they can be sweet or savory. Roll your dough out and then just fill it. I'm gonna do bacon, cheese and scallions then you just seal up the and then place it seam side This next step is purely optional but I like to make it just a little fancy by brushing a little egg with our favorite These are a super cute or breakfast and everyone's You gotta admit, these than they actually are. You don't have to use the cupcake liner but if you do, it looks really cute and it makes it really easy for serving. This is definitely not your normal biscuit and this might be one of my favorite hacks for canned biscuit dough. This next way if you haven't heard of it, you might be living in a This is a great time to use the smaller, regular sized biscuit. There are lots of different recipes and lots of different ways that but my favorite way is the old school. You just quarter your biscuits, separate them and toss Don't worry, we have tons of at MyRecipes. You simply empty these into a tube pan, pour over a simple butter and then voila, you've got monkey bread. It's like breakfast The next creative use for I'm talking pigs-in-a-blanket. I like to cut a large biscuit and then wrap up whatever That took all of about five seconds. This definitely makes a hardy breakfast but you can also use smaller and make these great party appetizers. These bake up so nicely and they make the perfect This biscuit dough makes great My favorite are garlic knots. All you do is cut a biscuit in half and roll it into a six inch log then you take that While these are hot, brush them and serve them with Yum. Did you know biscuits make great piecrust? You can use canned and savory pies. They're also great on top of cobbler. I like to separate the and lay them right on top of Brush it with a little egg wash to get it nice and golden brown. How pretty is this chicken Doesn't get much better than that except for dessert, you Topping desserts such as sprinkled with a little cinnamon sugar makes this the easiest dessert ever. If you haven't been using canned then you're doing it wrong. I'm not talking about the I'm talking about dumplings This is the easiest way to make dumplings for a quick weeknight dinner. Take a biscuit and cut and flatten them slightly Just drop them straight of chicken and dumplings. You gotta admit, that looks Canned biscuit dough All you do is take your doughnut, cut the center out with a cookie cutter or a measuring spoon and Drain them quickly on some paper towels then you can dust them with powdered sugar or toss them around in or create your own glaze. Do these taste exactly like a No but they do satisfy the than making homemade doughnuts? Absolutely. And for my final trick, will it waffle? Yes, it will. Biscuits in the waffle You're going to brush your waffle iron with a little bit of butter and if you find the sweet Voila. Now those look good. Hopefully by now I've convinced you that having a can of biscuit For these recipes and with canned biscuit dough, on YouTube, Instagram and Facebook. Drain them quickly on some paper towels and then you can dust them You gotta admit, that looks That's not a bowl. Canned biscuit dough, (beep). Hopefully by now I've convinced you that keeping a can of is essential.