Today we're going to talk all about We are going to go through using maybe some products and some tools I'm going to show you how to get a really beautiful body I'm going to show you how to quickly the most trending up two of 2023. This video has something and I'm absolutely certain Let's go. The first look that I want to teach you because every other look stems If you want your hair or in multiple different ways, then I cannot stress this enough. It really is the foundation for everything Prepping the hair is our first step. I started with the better, not younger My hair is actually very textured and it air dries like this But the individual strands of hair I not only struggle with frizz, that gets easily damaged This really is an awesome product but it also acts as a taming It also makes my hair And you're going to see that in a second. On my roots, I use the Lift Me Up I'm a huge fan of this brand. I literally talk about them all the time. This product is also great at my roots, but the ingredients It actually has biotin in it, You can get both of these products so you don't have to buy them The bundle will save you so if you're interested, I will leave After I get my hair, as you can see, I started going through it and working my way up the head My very favorite blowout brush, the one So it's set at a great price point, It works super well I can't live without it. This is the one hot tool absolutely gorgeous as we move along. When I get to the very top of my head, This is called a mohawk section I actually blow dry So I blow dry each section and then moving Essentially, Do you see that? This gives me an amazing amount way more volume at the top of my head If you stop here, It will look smooth, but not super full. If you want more fullness, So you want to make sure that each section and then you want them to cool down for about 5 to 10 minutes Okay. Now here's another bonus tip that There are hot tools I used to use a micro crimper to do this. I showed how to do that in this video But there are tools with square patterns, that work way, way better It's way easier The volume Ruedi is a very well-known but I bought an imitation And again, as always, I'll leave As you can see, all you have to do is leaving enough hair If you look at the one side and then you look at the other side you can see that the results are insane And the results really do. Last for multiple days. This is way, way, way better than back So happy I found this tool. I just don't even know how I lived All right. When I'm all done, with a better, I hate hard or sticky hair. I really do. So this is a great spray because it's but it still gives you that volume boost It's a really, really great hair spray. You guys should check it out. If you want something give you great without being sticky or hard And there we go. Look, number one is done. The second look I want to show you want that wavy look without it And it's a mystery for everyone I'm going to demystify it right now. Okay. I'm going to teach you how to do it. The easiest way to get a wave Again, we start at the bottom What you want to do is create an imaginary Each side is going to curl away You want to do that by placing The first rooted section wrap, you're going to twist your section, It's the act of twisting the hair the sections into waves and not ringlets. Do you see that it will give your hair a Watch it again on this section. Okay. So the iron goes behind the section, and then the rest of the hair gets twisted At the end, when you pull on the hair, Do you see that? It's not a curl. It's just like an s wave and a bend. So you want to work your way to always curl away from the face I think it looks a little nicer when you use smaller sections So if you're in a hurry and you use larger totally fine. But be a little more detailed frame area, So if you take the time to really perfect the rest of the hair is going to look Finally, at the very end, all I do is I take a wide tooth comb And then again I blast it with a little bit of that volume It's a gorgeous, full wavy because it's not too curly, This is my favorite way to wear my hair. And this is a look that I get compliments Moving on to the third look. This third look is amazing for weddings It looks gorgeous, You can do this with your hair, The first thing you want to do The apex is the highest point of the head, by placing a comb The place where it lies flat is your apex. You want to grab that section, and then secure it with two bobby pins Then take the hair on the side, or fringe, cross it over the pins You want to do the exact same thing so dark, it's hard to actually see But I actually did this exact tutorial And you can see here It actually looks super gorgeous on dark It's just a little bit harder You can't see the dimensions as well because the dark hair But you can see how freakin beautiful And this is just Finally, I'm dying to show you this Every celebrity is wearing their hair The way that you do leaving out the fringe or any shorter face The nature of this up do is quite messy, You want texture everywhere and a brush I even like to pinch out even more texture at the top, Then after you get that top section up, bottom section and do a ponytail Now, from here, it's pretty easy. You want to take smaller sections brush them to give yourself more volume And then from there I split the ponytail sections into smaller rotate them around the head and pin I wish I could give you more but there's not much rhyme Honestly, I just spin it. I see how it looks. And then I put Bobby pins in there, or if they are in or out of balance. I kind of adjusted accordingly. So every time I do But go with your gut, see what's working, One tip that I can give you a really important When you're doing this, They will hold the hair This is a mistake. I see a lot of novice hair people make. If you open the pins up, you will And that's it. How adorable. And easy is this up. Do honestly, it can look super fancy but it can also be like a brunch up. Do I love it? It's one of my favorite What do you guys think? Let me know in the comment section which And if you're inspired I really love reading your comments and I take as much time as I can This video's over.