I've been dreading spending time with this Nokia don't remember when I got this. Meaning it was trying this out though. But it didn't power up. screen briefly flickering and going black. wrong inside this phone. So I've been putting it when plugging in the charger it does beep, and it So while this doesn't power up. It is at least random dot pattern is not so random. In fact it's it's probably not a faulty connection somewhere likely to be some faulty logic inside the phone, Which is basically a worst case scenario. Though I onto the main inner display, we can see that least the computer part of the phone is working. system from the rest of the phone. I may not be can still explore this as a computer. So it's Of course getting all the screws apart. There's the main board maybe The inside seems a bit dusty and there's a small nothing looks badly damaged. There's just a small lot smaller than the two boards that I found ran an AMD 486 CPU, that I have explored in a looks like the main CPU. Which in here is called Taking a guess at the rest and it looks like a Disk-on-a-Chip. These mirrored surfaces are light at just the right angle. This looks memory. The other side of the board looks like So let's have a look inside the front Very nice. I like the way this looks inside. feel. I'll just very carefully get Ok, there's the back of the main screen, and of each ribbon cable. It seems a bit odd. The wise. That Epson IC is likely an LCD controller. While the other side is almost completely empty. dust and corrosion out as possible. Looking backlight itself is coming in through these four board, it looks like there's some power supply and a nice big capacitor, and this white thing. I look at this backlight and see what we can find glass tube. I definitely need to get this out and a cold cathode compact fluorescent tube. I was tube inside. This is very cool, it's very weird really difficult. Fluorescent tubes were actually But to see one inside a phone is very unusual. likely to have used fluorescent backlighting at ever used a fluorescent tube. If you know of any in phones because they used a lot of power. There backlighting. Such as the Atari Lynx and other displays. These color LCD TVs from the 90s also PDA used a fluorescent backlight. I've never tried closer look at one day. This phone was released in LEDs coming to market. Nokia must have been became available, and missed that opportunity by could be this fluorescent tube is faulty, but the as a potential cause. This helps generate the the tube. Or maybe the power supply circuit with no replacement parts available how am I going have a large amount of really broken crap. Such see if I can get the white LED backlight out of There's definitely some bad corrosion going on in here. But let's get to the Carefully tearing the layers apart, and Just what I'm looking for. I need to very on a very thin ribbon cable. Hopefully these I'll just carefully solder some wires onto this and we'll connect them up to And it looks like they need at least they would be connected in series to glue these into place and see how well this works. Turning on the LEDs and the screen is indeed wondering how I'm going to actually hook up Then while I do think it would be possible to process by continuing to run the backlight going to reassemble the phone enough to And there we go it works. I can now see the main high resolution, 640x 200 pixel color when it was new in 2001. It was probably the was the Apple Galaxy Super Pro Double This phone is running an early version of version. It's got quite a nice user interface. course. There are all sorts of menu functions and mess about with. I am having one problem though. working. Since these soft buttons are located on related to the logic error and the outside of actually a huge problem. Because it means I can't Which is install Symbian software. Without the install button, and I looked. And I can't find buttons. Also some of the installed software So they really are quite important I am very this phone at the moment. But I am glad I got to light was really interesting. I'm also very of this version of the Symbian operating system. Communicator models into my hands. They do pop up more examples for a while. Unfortunately I missed I'll keep looking and one day I'll find a working and some of that amazing software it and lowlights of doing digital archaeology. Oh little one, I will protect you, and surround you with my love, as well as any man can, as well as any man could, I will be there for you, always [Music]