Hi, there. My name is Daniel Walter Scott, and I'm an Adobe certified Now in this course, I'm going to show you everything you need to know about Now this course is aimed at people There is no need to have any previous graphic design or desktop publishing. We're gonna start right at the beginning Together, during this course, we're the tools and techniques necessary to We'll work with color, we'll pick your You'll learn how to choose and You'll be working on You'll learn how to find, resize and crop You'll learn how to open other fixed the fonts, fix the images, so So, if you've never opened up InDesign, or you have and you've struggled I'll show you the easy way to make Hello there, you made it into the class. This video is all about a few things we need to get setup. We'll download the exercise files, I'll I'll show you how to get that your copy of So first up, okay, so you could play along with me. Depending on where you're first try might be going back to you'll see source files in kind Otherwise, check underneath there'll be a useful links, okay, and So download those and get ready. Next thing, All right, next up, So best place is on the forum, okay? So go to Envato Tuts+, okay, and It's one of the top links on the website. And look for this course, okay, beginners, and your homework that I send at If you prefer though, on Twitter, we are Tuts+ design, I am Dan loves Adobe, or on Instagram, So questions and cool examples of the work Next thing we need to do is hang around, setup, so that yours looks like mine, All right, let's jump onto the computer. All right, we're here inside the computer, I'm not sure I dived there but First thing we need to do is, we need to and because if you're working with sometimes InDesign loads up If you've never used we all need to get on the same page. We're gonna use inches in this course. So we've opened up InDesign, yours might but that's all right. On a Mac, you follow me first, okay? So InDesign, go to Preferences and So that's if you're a Mac user. If you're a PC user, it's a very similar you'll find something called Preferences, Okay, so follow me in here. Now I live in Europe, so I end up doing we're gonna do this one in inches, just cuz that's where most Okay, so we're gonna click on inches. Yours might be set to picas, it's a kind I don't even know how to use it. I always switch mine to inches and inches. Strokes are typically used as points, I'm not going to change anything else. One thing that we might do while we're just make sure you're using the language So you can switch between English USA or English UK, or Now the thing is with make sure when your doing it If you have documents open, For all new documents, then go and mess with it, it'll only So if you feel like you're changing and it's cuz you've got a document open. All right, next thing that we're gonna that your vision of InDesign looks So the first thing we need to do We're gonna make a new document. So File, New Document and Whatever it set to, I don't mind, click Create, we'll cover all What I want to do is make your Okay, to do it, you got to Window and So I'm using the version CC 2019. If you're using an earlier version, you should be using the latest So Workspace, make sure you're on It should have a little tick next to it, then you can go to Reset Essentials, okay. And then watch what happens kind of resets to the predefined size and now yours looks like mine and Now if you're one of the people who are you might be like the person who loves to they end up in weird spots and To reset it all back, you'll get out of just make sure on Essentials. You click on this Reset Essentials again, Now, if you're using an earlier version You'll be able to follow the trouble is going to be is you Your version of the same tools, we'll have while most of it is the same, height along the top instead of the side. There are a few differences, okay if you're looking for guides, Not in a handy little button here, you're So you can play along, you just need All right, so that's gonna be it. Let's close down this window. Don't save it and we'll move on to the next video where Hey there, in this video, we're going we're gonna create a new page and it's it's gonna end up looking like this. Little more boring but it's our first a page, how to work with margins and All right, let's jump in and get busy. Okay, to get started, close down or any new document you Let's all go to start, All right, this thing appears. Yours is gonna be different from mine, because I've got lots of Let's go across to print. Now it doesn't really matter if you're send it to a printer for a brochure, or at the end, it's more to do But we're gonna start the same way, we are gonna use US letter, okay, but And you can see where it says View or This is a bunch of other kinda like business cards and compact disc. [LAUGH] I assume that it'd gone by now, All right, so let's click on letter. And over here on the right, So width and height is easy, Mine's gonna be inches. Orientation, landscape, portrait. Nice and easy. Number of pages. We'll just have one to start with. We're gonna do the cover and Let's turn facing pages off for We'll talk about that later on in the just have that off. We'll start our page numbering at 1 and the only other thing we'll discuss So margins is nothing really, it's just your page, just to give yourself some that there's consistency away Whenever I'm teaching somebody that's new, some ticks closer to the right And margin is just a nice way of the consistent borders on your document. This particular design I'm gonna Okay, click one and look over here and depending on yours I think I I'm gonna put that on and Doesn't matter, just make sure And next we're gonna talk about bleed and Okay, so we'll jump out to real Dan. And he'll explain you, It will help you understand bleed. All right, I am back, let's talk So bleed is, let's say that this is the magazine Okay, it's US letter and But now we need to add bleed, and bleed little bit extra, okay? That we have to add to a document when If this is gonna be a PDF, Cuz bleed is, let's say this we need it to be just a little bit bigger an eighth of an inch. Okay, a little bit extra on outside, that little bit extra This is magazine here, This magazine would be the right And what would happen is if you were in they print all the pages separately Which means just blowing them along this these pages like you see a flat it we know magazines are nice and flat, okay. That's not how they come they actually it is they print all the separate bits they're actually pointing Okay, well, reasonably close, but To get them pretty, And that's why we need bleed. Cuz you need a little bit of image to so there needs to be an overlap. Cuz if you had it right at the edges, it might leave some white You just need to make sure there's the guillotine to be cutting off. I'll show you another example. So say this coffee card, You can see this image You probably can't but I had to make sure that image an eighth of an inch bigger, okay. And so that when they printed this, a bigger sheet, okay, A3 or A2 sheet, and And they made sure there's a bit of and then somebody gets out following something called cropmax. Which we'll look at later a little bit of my business But it means that I get that red line, Or the red image is perfect to That is bleed and Basically whenever you go If you are printing this in the office, you're planning on glowing it yourself and If it's going for PDF, And but if you're sending it And this could be say you're Okay, and somebody has asked they probably would ask for bleed. They will say it needs to be this high, it needs an eighth of an inch bleed. Okay, just ask them if they need it or And they'll have something called a spec giving you all the details you need. That is bleed, a slug, slug, It's like bleed, it's a little bit So bleed was an eighth of an inch, slug And you only use that if your And you'll add notes to the side. You'll write in the slug. You'll write things like this magazine is glued Like little notes like I never use a slug. You'll probably never use the slug. There's some people that use it though. You'll use bleed potentially you'll never use slug, hope that helped. All right, that is bleed, there's a couple going, so wait around or And I won't do the dive this time but I'll show you how to finish off our page. All right, we're back, Okay, so you might have to twirl down this make sure the little chain link broken, Okay, it means when we change one, And we're gonna put in an eight So 0.125 okay, and I can click it should move around or So notice that I can actually just So if I know it's three millimeters, I have to do stuff for America. Even though my brain So I just type in the measurements, click me, it's close enough. It could be higher, okay. It could be a quarter of an inch. Check out what the specs are. I'm just giving you what's All right, so 0.125 and Are you ready, steady? Hit Create and here we are. And if you can't, if yours is maybe let's click on this one here You should get back to this. Okay, so what are we looking at? The white area is the edge of There's magenta kind of purple It doesn't print, We did margins of one inch before. Okay, so The red line around Okay, so you need to make sure we'll do drawing import images they have to But know that anything in this little the red line is gonna end up If your document is going both at print say, downloaded from your website or export the PDF for your website, So if in doubt, add bleed, Let's save our document. Because at the moment up at the top here Let's go to file, and where you're gonna put it, it's up to you. I'm gonna put mine on my desktop for on a PC it's different, right? You hopefully you can find the new folder you dump, stuff, probably my documents, I'm gonna be very responsible, And I call this one in design tutorial. Create, now I'm j gonna, The name of the document at the top here don't call it anything like brochure. Because you'll end up, you'll end up with loads of brochures, So you'll wanna give it a specific name. So what I do I give it the company name. Because I work as a freelancer this one here is going to be called NZ, Is it NZ. Okay it's gonna be in the brochure, okay just to make sure, cuz brochure will and then V1, okay never call it less. It's like the kiss of death, okay. And you've all seen it. Final 2, Final new, don't do that. Just call it V1, V2, V3, V4. You're laughing because you've done it. All right, so we've got our name, The one thing we'd do before we you're like, I need to change the margin To do it, just make sure you're And which is probably up, okay. If you can't see your Properties panel, And over here you can see the basics, it's won't see is you won't see bleeds, It's a bit more hardcore while There you go, let's click OK, and that my let's jump in to the next video where adding color. Hi, there. This video is all about We got a big one, little one [LAUGH]. Okay, but mainly, it's about what the difference between CMYK also how to make premade corporate How to put them into design and All right let's jump in now and Okay so let's talk about color so We need something for Okay so there's two rectangles, the rectangle frame tool It's like a rectangle with a cross images might go here. You are totally allowed I never do, I just use the regular Now, if you can't see the rectangle, hold, hold the mouse key down. Then click on the rectangle tool and draw out a rectangle and yours is What ends up happening with whatever the last So yours might have no fill, no color. Yours might have a line around Let's fix that, and at the same time, So I draw my rectangle, it's still If yours is not selected, It's the top black arrow, it's called And over here, in your Appearance panel, The stroke is the line around the outside. So let's first of all go to the Fill and Your's might have a little red line Okay, let's just click on, Okay, and over here, I'm gonna click on What is a swatch? They're just pre-mixed colors and InDesign be using, or at least the starting ones. And let's have a play. Okay, so let's, first of all, red or yellow or magenta, or Let's make it yellow, Do what I say, make it yellow, okay? And then with the stroke, To get rid of it just kinda click in this this disappears back Okay, let's click on the same little icon And let's pick black because I Over here next to stroke, see this little And you can pick a bigger size or you can just use this little up arrow or But I guess I wanted to show you Fill is the center part and So let's have a look at the different Okay, so let's click on Fill. I'll click on the little yellow icon, the And on the bottom here, Those are, other than they're hideous, There's this one black, and registration I'm not gonna cover registration Google it type of thing, but never use it. It's a printer's only thing, not complicated, but it's a whole another video that will be We'll just use black, The other weird thing is paper, okay, None means it's got nothing in the middle, I'll move it across to the edge, grab the actual black edge You can see that has a fill of none. But if I make it white, it's different. And when I say white, I mean paper. InDesign tries to be clever. Basically, we all know if I put blue paper hit print, I'm not gonna get any white. It's going to show through the blue paper. So that's the reason I call it paper and So ugly colors, black and none, Now let's say that we We wanna mix our own, we wanna go super You can use this option here, so down the bottom here it's What we're gonna do in this the burger menu, let's click on RGB. It changes to my red, we can just click it anywhere down in Now if yours is not changing, you've got this guy selected. Go back in here, we should be able to Now you might have seen in the there, RGB versus CMYK. Okay, those are the two kinds And you can see a real big difference green, or this kind of like, But you wouldn't have [LAUGH] it's like a spearmint Anyway, let's say spearmint peppermint, Now, RGB is what your computer it's a bigger color range. It has more richer colors monitor right in front of you right now Luminance that helps get some really Madonna pink and But when it comes to your printer, we all know if I printed that at your home It's gonna look great on screen and And that's just because your printer your screen. So which color should you use? CMYK, boo. RGB, yay, okay? So if your document, it's gonna have dual purpose. It's going to be something sent to It's also gonna be something that or emailed out. So we'll start with RGB, and we'll convert it all to CMYK for This is kind of best of both worlds. If you're only going to print, these colors only to know And your next question is, Unfortunately you can't, You can make it darker or lighter, but you can't make it that rich, It just is not possible with the ink, So the rule is, if I'm mixing colors and I'm going to go, I'm not going to trick only be disappointed later on by But if my business card is going to be RGB and then when I export, I'm gonna will be RGB and at the end, I can convert So that's a bit of nerdy colorness. It's probably not what you hoped for, keep going. But I guess at this stage, We're gonna use RGB in this case. Let's say we like this color and we wanna Instead of trying to mix it every time add to swatches. Swatches is this first little So I can randomly pick a color let's go to here and And If I go to my Switches panel now, red, green and blue, that make sense. So later on I can go through, I can go over to here in my fill and down the bottom on my swatches tab, right Hello mint green. All right, let's say though that have already got colors. So what I'm gonna do is gonna delete that. I'll keep this guy here. And let's say that, yeah, We've gotta use our corporate colors. Now, to get your corporate colors, you're or the designer who originally hopefully maybe, you might even It's probably in your third drawer down, Have a look through there and see if you have decided that that was right for For visit NZ, or visit New Zealand, I've typed them out for you in your called colors, double-click it, And I'm gonna show how to put them rejigging of my, I don't want you to I'm gonna stick it there so Actually, I'll stick it on the side, the editor to zoom in, all right. So I've got my black arrow selected, I've got this selected. I'm gonna go to Fill. I wanna create my own crazy color. But really, I'm gonna go to the little And I'll just type in the numbers here so they're always listed as red, So you can see here that's not always assume, same as CMYK, Okay, so 53, 120 and I'm gonna drop this down and I'm gonna check my little at the bottom there, it's there. Okay, and I'm gonna give it a name. I totally skipped that step. You double click it to give it a name, just double click it And let's go see if it let's call this one VNZ Green and Makes it a little easier to work with, this little mint correct color we had Okay, to bin him you click on him and So I've got my VNZ, let's mix up it's not quite red but We'll do it one more time to get that and So make sure you got this guy selected, hit the little color icon, And then in here I'm gonna go 192. I'm gonna hit Tab cuz I like tabbing So 192, 62 and 84 [LAUGH]. Okay, it gives me my, I call it red. It's not red. Don't even know what to call it, stuck in anyway you get the idea. Okay, we're gonna add it to we're gonna go to our swatches, And we're gonna say name with color gonna call this one red even though you're It's, I don't even hazard to guess, I don't know what to say, And I'll get you to do It's the slate color, and I'll get I'll see you in a sec. All right, you're back. So let's apply our colors. So we'll start with this guy, I'm going to give him So the fill color, make sure it's on Click on the little edge here, make sure you're on swatches, okay. And so it's got another line on the Now we're gonna resize this thing. So we're gonna use the selection tool so Let's grab this top left-hand corner. You'll notice that that when you get this like diagonal errors. Click on that and just drag it. Okay, I'm dragging it with my mouse and Do I drag it to the edge of the white? No, we drag it all the way out to That means that there's this little chunk off by the guillotine into the bin. Why do you bother doing that? Why don't you just go to the edge? It's because often the guillotine There's often it's just a person lining up your page, And they need a bit of wiggle I get it close enough. So you need a little So at the bottom right, I'm gonna it covers all the way If you have dragged yours, this happens all over the place. Don't worry, go to View, and it should come back to normal, Try and get it down there. All right, one rectangle, There's lots of them that look the same. Even me, [LAUGH], Make sure, it's a test. You gotta click on this one here, and what I'm gonna do is, And this one here's going to be, not too worried about it. And make sure it has a fill of, and make sure it has no strokes, I'm gonna resize this one, grab the black roughly about a third, okay, and You saw at the beginning of this video, what we're kinda making this So slate box, green box, and let's give it a fill of the not read. There you go and we're not too worried about the size yet. We're gonna use this as background for just get used to resizing it. It's gonna be asked for we learned what RGB versus CMYK is. And we've looked at how to apply fills and plus we're getting used In the next video though, But in the next video, we'll look at some around the document a little easier, Hi everyone. This video is just some basic navigation our document. The first one is zooming in and out. There is a magnifying glass, okay. You can click on this, Click once to zoom in, and or the option key on a Mac. So look down at your keyboard, you might You're probably going to have Hold it down. And check my screen, So if I hold down the Option key, Let it go, click once, zooms in. Now, I'm not gonna do too we'll do a little bit towards the end, Cuz it's long and So go back to your Selection tool, On a Mac, hold down the command key and On a PC, hold down the control key and Right next to the plus key is minus. So minus zooms out, plus zooms in. So remember, Command + on a Mac, That's the one people use the most now, I'm zoomed in a few. Okay, how do you move You can use these little see Now fine. Okay, if you're finding in just computers in general, But if you're not and you wanna be a little bit fancier, Watch my little cursor here changes Okay, and if I click and drag the hand, so click hold drag, click hold drag, There it goes, spacebar, I can start And I can move myself around. You can see the scanner just That's too advance, go back to on maybe you can practice with All right, let's go back to View and You can actually use Fit Page and Window. Okay, so my shortcut. Not gonna get in too many shortcuts, but if you find like you're doing the same men I'm always doing the old object You can see they all have shortcuts on But if you have a look through your menus, you'll see that lots of them have your Okay, to be using a PC that's gonna say, Anything your doing repetitively, And for me one of the ones I use all Okay click on that, so reminds come on 0. Yours is gonna be ctrl + 0, It zooms all the way out, nice, okay. I've got this selected so selection tool. Red box selected. We've learned to resizing, And rotation is, you see my cursor here, But if I go just a bit further out, If I click hold my mouse key down and Okay, so it's kind of like I don't know, between scaling and So this is kind of like zone Now once you've practiced rotating and so there's an undo option. So let's go to Edit, and the shortcut is command + Z or So undo, edit, undo, So undoing a few times. So edit, undo loads of times Two more things I wanna show this green box down the bottom to I don't like it when I've just I don't know there's some wierd things properly, like thirds. There's kind of an unwritten when you are abiding by some of the rules. So rather than just like guessing half and They eye kind of looks at and goes, You can't put your finger on it but So, I'm gonna show you how to do So what I wanna do is I'm gonna make this And over here, a cool little thing The W and the H. So, the height, I'd like it to be a third. So, it's 11 inches high, which I'm terrible at, I can go divide. So I'm just using the backslash on And hit Enter on my keyboard, magic? So now I know that that You can divided it by half. You can times it by 2. Timesing by the way is, in here, It's normally tied in with your number But I times this by 2, I did the width I'm gonna go back to my edit, undo, and I'm gonna stretch it out And then my happy little graphic designer Things are lined up with the margins for that is exactly one-third. Two of the things I wanna So let's say that I grab my green box and I want it to be over the top But you can see this guy is on the top, nuclear red. It's a grayed on nuclear red, We've run our store as pink. But anyway, we want the green box So with the green box selected, And let's go to our range and Cool? the order of things. So that's in the back now, then this And say I want the nuclear red I can right-click it and say actually I If you are finding problems with hey my Mac doesn't have a right-click. You can, all the things that are hidden in can be found in these top menus. I happen to know that object arrange Right on the top and bring the front. It's great at the moment because But I can send it backwards, All right, one last bit of I wanna put that back there, is the W key. So be on your black arrow, Click on it, [SOUND] look at that. It's more of what it's gonna It's not exact, but it gets rid of all the little kind So let's click off on the background. So to deselect, there's a long way. Let's go to Edit and go down to Deselect. You could use as a shortcut as well, Means I've just got nothing selected, or your black arrow over here somewhere in no How to get back, hit the W key again. W, on, W, off, on, off, on, off, okay? It's just really handy. Can you see, it even hides the bleed, cuz we know that that's gonna So when I hit W, watch, it just goes. Gives me a kind of a more of an idea And just, I don't know, The long way for that is down here. Can you see this one? If I click on that, if I click and Hold it down again, normal, You can see how tiresome But that's the long way. And that is it for basic navigation, minus or control plus or minus, when I Clicking on things. This is no man's land for rotation. Edit, undo to get it back. We can do some basic math in these fields. Divide by 3, times by 2, Goodbye, W, W, W, W. One little tip though is, if you're in bit later on, and you start typing It's just gonna type a W, so But as long as you're not in the type All right, that is going to be it for Let's get into the next video, which we will look at fonts and I'll see you there. Hey there, this video, we're gonna put in add some text boxes, All right, to get started, if you're out, you can use the long way under View Remember, Command zero not O it's make sure the W key is switched Okay where you can see all the lines in Nice and easy Grab the type tool, okay? So this capital letter T here and it's always better to draw on the side If you start trying to draw straight on Indesign has this clever way of it becomes quite confusing. So over here on the right hand side, drag out a box, nice big box. It's not really don't worry too much discover, okay, and type to adjust it, okay, so with the Type tool just kind of you can see over here we got character and The top one here minion pro Click you can go through all the fonts that have the same ones as me, so I'm going to Okay but have a look through, preview there, yours might look a little But don't worry we're gonna change it in half an hour picking a font, I'm gonna use Arial, let's go crazy, Underneath it is whether it's bold, okay option here, Font Sizes, obviously it's gonna go up, we're not cuz font adjusting is not Okay, so Font Size, this next one here, It's the space between lines, they just call it lidding in InDesign, you'll use trekking as the space between We'll stick with the left line at I wanna change the color of this font, can kinda see, my fill has changed from to describe that I'm I can pick say our VNZ red, okay and my black arrow, click it a couple of times color, but when it's highlighted it So go back to your selection tool, the later on, as soon as you finish do your own stuff and you'll be like, change the color of this font to, So I'm gonna go to edit, undo, you need to have it selected to change. Can you see now, it's gone back to it's gonna work, or if you don't wanna like that, you can select it with And just like before, we click on this, it's gonna do that came in under what you it says apply to, you can actually they call that the text frame, We're gonna say actually I'm gonna go down here and I'm gonna pick paper actually cuz I want color here, see the highlight Or we do a selection tool you can apply One of the things I wanna show you is what I'd love to see this font, it's not selected I'm gonna Do you remember? To get rid of all the lines and you're gonna click it, Okay, it's cuz it's out in this space be thrown away in the bin, so So if you wanna see it, If you're half on the page, it'll stop a freak out later on, anyway. So you can work in this Preview mode, Just know that Yeah, you can't see stuff Now I'm gonna put this word here discover something nice and big, cuz it's not gonna be the fun I'm gonna to your rectangle is not big enough, look [SOUND] It's gone completely, tutorial like this and it's because the text So you go to do one of two things I grab my black arrow, the selection There's more room for you buddy, okay? Cuz if it gets smaller, So you either do that or draw another what I do is I grab my type tool, go to Select All, it's kind of bit of So you click in there are go to There it is there, so it selected all I'm gonna make the font size a whole Better still, when you're new, So I'm gonna click off on the background just delete it, select it, delete it, make sure you've got a smaller font. I'm gonna undo all that, So I'm gonna go Edit &gt; Undo, you'll notice Cmd + Z doesn't work say if I hit Cmd + Z now or Ctrl + Z on a to kind of click out of everything, All right, so go to this word, Discover, it to fit, instead of drawing in New Zealand, make sure you just go into go to edit copy, and then edit paste. I've got a second version of this, this New Zealand, make sure there's Okay, we've put in some ugly text, you text, and we're gonna look at something And it's gonna expand your font amazing fonts they get Let's finish this video, wrap it up, Hey, everyone. This video, we're going to take our transform it into these pretty fonts, All right, let's jump in and They're free, they're commercial us, there's loads of them, they come as My goodness, where are they? I'll show you in a sec. All right, to find these amazing let's use our black arrow and And before we start messing around with it's either, you notice in between videos couldn't help myself but, and you just need to make sure So grab the black arrow move it, even just so that there's a bit of space happen to be a bit bigger, it'll end remember they got cut off? Okay, and we couldn't see them. That, by the way, And you can kind of see that that's the visual indicator for Make sure it's big enough And in this 2019 version, of editor's If in the past you've heard of okay, that was the original name for It's now just cold plain old Adobe Fonts. Okay, so we've got the selected, If you can't see character, you might have okay, but I can see mine fine. Just drop this down and Fonts, this little icon here, is the fonts that are on your machine, You'll have some, okay. This one that says find more, Click on it. Cool thing about them is that not your fonts, okay, and Now if your internet connection is it keeps up okay. If yours is super slow, or you're offline, cuz what it does is you're it's basically Adobe gonna download it for So, couple things, you can just hover, Can't even pronounce that font, so I'm going to work with Abolition, [INAUDIBLE] I can say that one. Okay, so you can move through these fonts, These are just fonts that you're on the house from Adobe. Cool? see this one here, Abigail? You can see it's not appearing, It's that same problem. Can you see my little plus there, that font is just ginormous. So, we go back into it, I made the box Yeah fine, there we go, So let's make sure the box is big. I love Abril, Abril Fatface, just hover above them. If yours is not working, it means your you're not logged in to your If that's true, it's either using this doesn't exist, or You can see in my case I am If yours says log in, it means it doesn't and try to remember that Adobe So just make sure you're logged in, So to activate the font, so Find More and you could scroll And let's pick one crazy No way, Jose. Okay, I feel like that's, it's on the cover of lots of like Discover Southeast Asia or Anyway, what you can do is and it just downloads it And it's ready to go. Cool? is real slow it'll take a little bit of If it's still not working, like this interaction's being blocked you can go to fonts.adobe.com, And it's like a Web interface. It's not as easy as this. Other things you can do with these Okay, so it doesn't matter whether So your computer, Adobe's ones, and it's pretty spectacular. So let's say that you're you've downloaded a zillion 15 years I've borrowed and or appropriated And what I wish is I had kinda like tag them like all handwritten Adobe, magically, you can say actually show And it's gone through my shown me all the fonts that It's too good. do the same thing, and say actually, you'll see there are lots, okay? When you like one hover above it, I can just click it to download it. There's options in here for, let's say I want a serif font that But I want a serif font but I want You can see it there, But let's say I wanted this but I also wanted to have, Can you see these old style figures where You don't wanna pick a font for You can click ones that that are narrow, that have numbers There's lots of different options in here, you can clear them all. What I want to do is I want to go and All right to search for one what you can do is kind of, Click right on this thing. And instead of using the drop So I'm gonna delete whatever was there. The one I want is Linotype, So hopefully you can read that there. So just delete what was in there and You can see it's not found if I go to Find More it I'll just type in DDOT. There it is DDOT. Find More, so don't type in Linotype, So DDOT, I want, basically, Pro Bold, So I'm just gonna go through and click that one, Activate, I'll get you, you, you can just click on any font you like You are forbidden to use these ones for no You're allowed to like them. You can see at the top there it's The other fonts we're gonna So that same thing again and I'm gonna say down here, delete all that. Just type Roboto. I already have this one installed so But if yours, it probably doesn't, then start downloading the ones you want. There's lots in terms of Roboto. [LAUGH] So Forget all the Condensed, maybe get So Medium, Light, Bold and We're gonna use, We need a body copy font and kind of flamboyant hitting font. So in terms of good body copy fonts, Helvetica and Calibri are all ones that Word dishes them up, and they're fine, But if you're looking for a little bit more designery, not a word, And another one that gets used really Okay, it's another real good Write that down cuz you might pick Open or another job you just want something a Roboto, are really good, just kind Easy to read, has lots of different All right, so So this guy here, I'm going to make him the DDOT and Just kind of scrolling through Pro that was already on my machine, Font size, this is up to you. Depends on my size of That's gonna work for me. I've got mine up to 78 and I'm gonna it's a bit more usable, and here's a New Zealand I'm gonna Often, it's good practice just to have two a body copy font. Mine's gonna be Roboto. I'm just typing it in down here, You might be like, Yeah, it does, I just, I like different fonts. So, and what I'm gonna do is, One thing, a little tip is, you're getting things, which is normally really cool, If you kinda click on it with your I'm just looking down at my keyboard here, left, and right arrows, those to tap things around just I'm gonna extend the tracking on this, which is tracking is So over here, that's the tracking and I'm gonna increase it up a little bit, There's no official rules on how It'll depend on the size of font you're I don't know, designery you wanna be. All right, so try and get it to the right sorta size. I'm aligning everything with this margin, because it's gonna to add some [INAUDIBLE] And I'm gonna start moving it all down, It's really hard sometimes. So see that this box here is right I can click on the pink box easy. And this is gonna bring up a big point. I wanna move them all down in one go. How do I do that, okay? Cuz I can do them all separately, So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna And then I'm gonna hold down my Shift key, hold down Shift and You can kinda see it's got I can move them down as a little group. If you want them to stay as a little you can go to this one, no, you go to There's a shortcut, I don't want them to be together forever Okay, I'm dragging Discover back. Now what was the key I needed to I the outside so I can see it all? Remember? Okay and you can kind of see New Zealand There we go. Nicer there. All right, so those are Adobe fonts. They're kind of weirdly hidden. Remember, click on Text in there, If you have turned on Filters, just so Crazy Filter, okay, Decorative Fonts, So if you're in there, you're like, you've left one of the filters on and Click off from the background here. It's looking nice. You might have watched this video and awesome, I can't change my font cuz you're never allowed to change it cuz But if you end up doing your own project, If you can't find your corporate font designer, ask them to send it to you, If you're gonna buy a font, something like myfonts.com is a really I wouldn't be buying fonts anymore, now fonts, okay, unless a client comes you have to use it because And if I don't have it, I'll check it's not in the Adobe fonts buy it using something called myfonts.com. There are competitors to that, All right, that is enough fonts for Let's get into the next video Bring on the images. Hi everyone, welcome to the image video, I'll show you where to find them, how to use commercial images, we're gonna learn what That's why this section is so long, one of the quirks of InDesign, let's All right, let's first talk about the two main food Okay, there is one called royalty free and So royalty free means, you don't have to then pay royalties So one of the main types Okay, this site here means you get access to their You can see here one subscription you get to download as many as you like. It's a brilliant resource and it's for people like me who are professional Or somebody working in an agency or somebody working in a company that need without having to search So I'll show you some actual free places you'll find the depth isn't there. For me, say I need to search for say, something like New Zealand, okay, And you'll see there's graphic templates, There's actual InDesign templates you Cool illustrations, photographs, that's fonts, there's all sorts of templates. Loads of cool things that But if I look in images here, New Zealand's not as specific like And there is just a huge depth So I can download these, get to use them for I get to use them for web things, there's a fee associated to it So let's say that you are broke, or you don't wanna spend $15 a month, okay, the cool thing about these sites is So you can actually use these, the photographers that add them you can use my images commercially, So one of the big ones is Unsplash and There's a couple of other ones, Pexels, They have different libraries. So if you can't find it in Unsplash, You'll notice here that the images they're still typically But still the quality is through the roof. The trouble is that So doing a search for New Zealand will not the variety that I I just need to get an image, get it a long time in the free stuff. Now, it's pretty easy to You just click on this little arrow here, found there is a photographer on Okay, he is an amazing photographer and I reached out to him and he said it I've got them in our So let's jump into InDesign and I'll All right, So first of all, We wanna see all the junk, cuz we're like we did our type and then bring it in. So an easy way to get started. Just put everything on the paste board, Remember W key. The other thing we need to do is make So black arrow, click in the background so And you should, hopefully, Click on that. And in here, new exercise files we're Let's click Open. Now when you're bringing in an image, If you click once, bad. It's not bad, but if you click once I'm going to zoom way out, it's not really usable doing that. Okay, so what I'm gonna do is go to Edit, And I'm kinda back to that stage. So instead of clicking once, you drag your mouse out to You can see that's you get it down to even if It's easier to kinda start it off with a The next thing to learn is that there is a frame and Like a picture frame on your wall okay, And if you've tried to self teach and So let's discuss that. So if I use my black arrow and I grab I drag it up over here. You can see I've adjusted the frame, So I'm gonna go to undo. The way to move the image or is you need to hold down This is where you get your pen this is the one shortcut you can't forget. You need to hold down on a Mac, And on a PC, it's Ctrl+Shift. And then drag the corner. And it does kinda more like That's kinda more traditionally yeah, you But if you don't hold those two keys down, Good work InDesign. Anyway, I'm gonna undo. So make sure you hold down both of those we can resize at the size that we want. So frame separate from the image. Let's have a look at adjusting the image, I only show you this cuz you're gonna I'm gonna move the image. And you're gonna go [SOUND], if I grab that little target in the If I grab that target in the middle and not the frame. You're like weird, You drag it all the way out and So I'm gonna undo it. So undoing it, clicking off on the but not the content grabber. I never click on this guy. [LAUGH] Yeah. It's a good idea. I always click anywhere but okay, and And then content grabber moves the whole move just this guy, maybe to, Look at that, it's like a mask. Cool? delete it. Let's go back, nothing selected. Import file, let's go into image one All right, so we learned that there's a frame and Let's make that work to our advantage. So what I wanna do is drag it put it in the top left-hand corner here. I wanna make it kinda cover Next thing I wanna do is, I'm gonna grab I want the whole thing to come up. What keys do I hold down? Check your posted note, Remember Mac, it's Cmd+Shift and drag it until it get to this right line And what we'll do actually is, you can see the edges like I can. I don't want you in too close, I want you The Cmd+Shift or the Ctrl+Shift. Okay, and keep dragging it up so I wanted to kinda line up Don't worry if it's not perfect. But do make sure you move it so kinda gonna be a cut off So it pokes off the top and the left. And this right-hand side here, There's no reason you When we make a PDF to send to the printer, But me, I can't deal with this I'm gonna adjust just the frame. So I don't hold down any keys, So I'm not holding anything, You can kinda see how InDesign wants Bit of a pain to get used to actually after a while it's pretty good. All right, so the frame is kinda adjusted. Now this is where the content is that I can say actually I wanna And you're like now I understand You can see I kind of move it across, You see it's red? When it's red around the outside, If I click off and click back on and that means I'm dealing with the frame. So if I click the content grabber, If I click off, click back on, All right, last couple of things flipping an image comes up a lot. So with it selected, go to Object. You can see there's a bunch If you wanna rotate it. Not gonna go through them all, but I did that wrong, here you go. So there's all your kinda And the last thing I'll show Let's say you like that image, but the so we wanna switch it. So black arrow, make sure nothing is selected click on And over here it says, Input file okay. And because it's selected, Let me show you why. Let's click on it. Let's click on fill both the image number If it's not, turn it on. You can see what it's gonna do. Replace selected item. Heading selected, Trouble with this fella is we need to do some adjustments to him. The frame is the right size, but how do we adjust the image, Okay, go to content grabber and we might be able to just drag it around. But in our case, So what we're gonna have to do is, We hold down the same Cmd+Shift on a Mac, Ctrl+Shift on a PC. This means it locks the height and width. It means that, Okay, you can go outside You drag it up this way as well. Okay, and I'm gonna let go of these two keys and Now it's handy, handy content grabber. Okay, here we go. Love that image. Phil, you have to jump in with It's the South Island of New Zealand, The last thing I wanna show you you feel like men, I wonder what's wrong. Okay, with the image selected so, you might be, you should be on High Quality Display. That's on by default most of the time now, I'll show you what typical looks like. Just makes it kind of not as nice. You can see there your's might be looking It'll print fine. It just means your computer it's kind of compensating by It doesn't change the output. It just means your computer If your computer is struggling, switch it to Typical Display. I'm gonna switch mine to high quality, All right, last thing before we go it's covering all the ticks, then. And [LAUGH] I noticed, So how do we send it to the back? If you've already done it, If you haven't or you're struggled or you Okay, so this image needs to go to So with it selected, You were right-click, And you go to Send to Back. And it's gonna half work, And the problem is we've got that's in front of it now. So I'm gonna click off. Click back on. And the slide box here, I'm gonna delete him. He was there to till that gap at the top. And for us to practice our sweet color You could've right-clicked it and but he wouldn't print he wouldn't All right, that's it, images over and a little bit more images in the next But for now, don't worry if you the frame a little bit confusing. It happens to everybody you might have to it really comes down to experience and All right that's it, Hi, everyone. In this section, What is it? before, you might have been basically it's the quality of the image. Okay, will it print nice or That's what we're gonna discuss. So image resolution, basically, it's high Does it look good, does it not? And it comes down to a number, Where do you find that number? So first thing we need make sure you're not in preview mode, So hit the W key, go to Window, Your Links panel will show you your You can see there, it shows me I've got Actually, it tells me it's on page 1, What's even more handy is So I'm gonna click on it once. And down here in this tiny little window, it'll show me lots of information See this little tab at the bottom here? I'm gonna click and You can see here, it's RGB, all lots of useful stuff. What I'm looking for PPI is short for pixels per inch. If you're old school, dots per inch, DPI. It's exactly the same thing, And it's called pixels per inch cuz zooming, zooming, zooming. If I zoom in on the image enough, it's a little hard to see you can see the tiny little Us as humans, if we zoom out far enough, It looks like a lovely continuous image, And basically, say you got an inch squared here, the PPI So PPI is pixels per inch. So any inch on this page, there is currently 278 pixels And basically, the higher this number, the better quality it will look, or If this said 2000, if I zoomed in, you'd see a lot more pixels crammed Yes, okay, so basically, 72 PPI is fine, and will look really good So like a PDF that's going to be viewed on a website. [LAUGH] Okay, so If I use 72, though, and I'm gonna make it bigger holding If I keep making it bigger, can you see? I'm stretching this image and there's just less little pixels that get Okay, and if I get this up to about 72, I don't want you to do, But you can see I'm getting close to 72, Let's just say it's 72. I've stretched it so digital, okay, that would look fine. Okay, 72 dots per inch on If I sent this to a commercial printer, it will look terrible. That's why 72 is the lowest you can go, If you need to go to print, this needs Okay, so at the moment, Undo, undo, undo, undo, undo, undo, using, Now, if I was going to be I would scale this down a bit more. So I'm compressing it. So I'm jamming more little You can see I'm nearly close to that, Well, for an exact number, I'm close, okay? [LAUGH] So it's nearly 300. That's the benchmark. If you want it to look great when it's you should be aiming for 300. But it is just an aiming, Some people would disagree with me, Okay, but I am less fussy about an extra one PPI and not PPI, This is my opinion though, remember. [LAUGH] So when you're bringing in it's good to just, and you don't do you like this image? Great, it's gonna be good. It's gonna cover the whole Okay, there it goes. We use this on the cover. And you sell it to him, great. And you print it, and because it's down 300 would be beautiful. How do you get it to 300? You can't, okay? Basically it's down to So let's say this is Phil's image, okay? It'll depend on how much he's cropped So its original capture is kinda how You can fudge it a little but it's out of the scope of this course. Now, if you wanted to use this as a cover, you be like, can I print it? I would, okay? Now, this is definitely coming from Dan, but is not a purist when it comes And I know enough designers who would print it and be happy enough with it that So my minimum is 180. And my highest, there's no point, well, So 300's the maximum And how low can you go? I say 180. But you might send it to your printer and that's not good enough quality. Then you might do a test print, okay? Just have a little look, Let's just look at one more image just sense to it. So I'm gonna have nothing selected, And you can do this with me. From your Exercise file, there's one Okay, so I'm gonna bring it in. I'm actually just gonna click once. Okay, cuz I know it's quite a small image. I made it small just as an example. So I'm gonna open up my Links. I close that in between, there we go. So I've got two images. This one here, if I drag it down, is at Yeah, this one here. Near enough 300, I'm like, This one here though, I need a thousand of these printed for And I need this to look great, 72 dots per inch will look fine if this going to be in a PDF that I'm gonna email 72, remember, is perfect for screen, Remember I said kind of, 180, It needed to be, watch this. If I wanna get ready for print, That's too small, there you go. Okay, so at 300, it is tiny. It's about a third. So whenever you bring in an image and I wonder if it's gonna be big enough? Make it about a third the size, roughly. And that'll be high quality, Then there's the little bit where it can look fine at about 180-ish, So I'd be happy printing that. It depends what it is. If you're trying to sell a Rolex or don't fudge the images. Get it as high quality as you can, but It's got a bit of noise in the graphic So screen use is gonna be up to 72. And if it's going for commercial print, you can go as low as 180. Don't tell anybody I told you that. The last thing to discuss is let's bring, is it a kakapo? I'm not sure, it's one of the, It's probably a kakapo. I'm not sure, anyway, we've dealt with images, Let's say I bring in a logo If you're looking to make logos, check out the Envato Tuts+ Illustrator Okay, but, let's go to File. No, I keep going back, I'm getting used to the new way. If this thing here is in your way, You can kinda pop it back in and Nothing selected, Import File. I'd like you to bring in the Logo1-White. Click Open, make it a size. I'm gonna click and And what you'll notice is that if I click on Logo1-White, You're like, where is it? It doesn't have it, it's because A vector file is made by something it means it's resolution-independent. It can be scaled to it will still be crisp and clear. It's kinda more math That's why it's got a really specific So you don't need to worry about Again, if they come through and they can look really bad. Let's have a little look. You see, if it looks like that, go to Display Performance, and I'm gonna scale mine down. How do I scale it, what's the shortcut? Do you remember, it's two keys, It's Cmd+Shift on a Mac, And I'm just gonna kinda put mine up here, That looks good. So now, the W key, sort of big. [LAUGH] There we go, that'll do. All right, that is image resolution. If you're like, man, that blew my brain, you might have to watch Image resolution is a funny one. I hope this section made it we're done with the images now. Let's move on to the next section I'll see you there. Hi, there. This video is about spreads So far in this course we've made, you can we've made a single page document, Now, we wanna make some So it's gonna kind of, we've got a cover, now we wanna And because it's going to as in it's not going to be like single that you'd normally do at home and It's actually gonna be printed So they'll probably put it on A3, or I don't even know what But a big sheet, fold it in half, So we've done the cover. Now, we need to add some more pages. And if we added four more single we could send it to the printer, But what we wanna see is we wanna Like that. Where's a good one. See this one here. There's a relationship between So we'd like to see the pages Spread, okay? So we are going to turn on spreads. We're gonna make sure cuz we'll have a cover, the inside spread, And InDesign will do something cool the back by itself, but Hopefully it makes more sense when we And let's go and make them now. All right, adding pages is super easy. Make sure your deselected. Easy way that I do it is black arrow, And you should be able to see you should see Document, This is the one I want. How many pages? So I want four in total. So remember, front, Type 4, click out, and magically, But where are they? Okay, there's two ways to look. You can just zoom out. Zooming out, you'll see, look, four pages. What was the shortcut? You remember, Command+minus on a MAC, The other way, and is there's a whole tab If you click on that, you can see I've To get to them, I just double-click the white area. You can kinda see it highlights there. You can see down the bottom here, Double-click page two. There's nothing on these pages, so you get the idea. Double-click page one, You might what single pages, and What we wanna do, though, is go to turn on this one called Facing Pages. This turns on one. We use the word spreads Facing pages is what InDesign calls it. You can kinda see why. If we go to Pages now, you'll see Now, technically, the back should be like print them off and folded them, you can see the front and But they separate them off just so So the back's at the end. Page four. That's page two. Page three. Page one. You know how to count, you get the idea. So nice and simple. I think I'm trying to stretch all the other ones have been really long. But you can turn it off just as But what we wanna do is this. Go to page two, We're gonna start putting We'll do that in the next section. Hi there, this video we're gonna look in our case a brochure, it could be Okay, in this case the text goes from Watch this, if I make this box smaller, So linking text boxes, we'll talk That's what we're gonna be All right, to get started, make sure So double-click page two, and you can see everything. Let us bring in text. Let's go back to our Properties panel, It depends what you do with your text. A lot of people just copy and just paste it out of an email, We've got ours sitting So I'll show you this So I had nothing selected import file, a copy, click open and So this kind of saves time. I don't have to draw a text box and What I'm going to do is you can see it's I can click hold. Drag our box, draw it nice and big. Don't worry about matching the size, That brings in my text, okay? Now what happens with text is like it did box, I'm always as a designer in InDesign, That's a danger box. It means I've lost some text, it means I can tell by dragging it down. There is a layer. I know that's enough two pages. So I'm gonna show you how So just kinda resize it so it doesn't have to be perfect, Now to connect this page to this page. What you do is, with your black arrow, so your Selection tool, click this little Just click it once, okay? And your cursor becomes loaded. If it goes horribly wrong, As you're like, Hit Escape key, delete any random You might delete everything and Don't be afraid to do that But let's say I click it once, What I can do is move across And click and drag another box. Cool? So go back to this first box and grab the bottom one, drag it up you can They're always connected. You keep connecting by clicking on this, that this box has become overset. Remember the red plus. Click it once again and I can undo that and paste it down here, so If I adjust this box. I'll just do it here, can you see? It spills over to that one. All right. A couple of things you'll have questions what happens to the text. If I had delete to that's on my keyboard, It doesn't actually delete. Same thing if I delete this first box, So it starts with New Zealand, you can So, unless you delete all the boxes, So I'm gonna undo because I So if I want two columns because my This is where we're gonna end up, okay? Is we're gonna have a first box of text, two and I could draw one box and link it I'm gonna show you especially if your might have like 50 pages or 100 pages or Okay you don't want to be drawing this one in half. And I wanna show you both of these. So what we gonna do is this fellow here. I'm gonna make sure it is lined up here, I want it lined up with our margin and I want this side to line So it's like a full width. What you can do is black you'll notice over here there's You can see it's just one column, Cool? This next one here, It's called the gutter. You can just it's the space So you might have a document you're linking the two pages together. Okay, so you link this page to this you really long, text-heavy little trick rather than linking I'm gonna undo cuz that's All right, before we go and I'm just So, what I want is you can skip now we're Just going to get a little bit So I want this kind of big rectangle it is exactly one third of the document. So we're going to use So, I'm gonna grab the rectangle tool and and I'm gonna draw this fella. Bring it to the height, so don't mind which color it is even But it's gonna be in the image later on. Okay, what I want to do is make How do I do that? It's I go through and Then I go into width, Hit return, and that is a third, [INAUDIBLE] But here you go. Got my third, this fella here is going to I'm going to try and use the same Hit W. Now I'll remember our command zero. Okay, does the full page I So it's a bit of a hard In this case, it's command+Option+0, okay. If you're on a PC, it's Control+Option+0. Okay. spread in the middle. Don't worry too much about we've got We're gonna adjust the font size a little Or if you don't even have one we you'll notice I can shrink them down, you see the green things over there, you can see there they All right, it's enough for this video, start looking at something called longer text, I'll see you there. Hey there, this video is about Paragraph style means you can connect of its style, its font, its color. And the cool thing about it is later on, you can go once you've Especially good for a longer document, you can go through it, You'll see that all the connected update. Great for body copy, Let's work out how to make All right, let's create our little heading over here. So we're gonna grab the Type tool, draw heading and we're gonna type in so Okay, and let's highlight it all. And let's go over here and pick a font. Now we're gonna use the font that we Can't remember what it was called D dot. That's it, D dot. And I'm gonna use the D dot bold. I'm gonna make it be the green. Okay, nothing new here, a little tip is you can go through and You can type them in, If I want to go up In I hold down the Shift key and Instead of going up one, I hold the Shift Because that's where I wanna go, I wanna play around with the line called leading in InDesign. And I'm happy enough with that. Hey, black arrow, move it around. I'm gonna shrink this That's kind of what I wanna do. So the cool thing about this is that I Let's say that I'm working with this I don't want to have to like Put the colors in, so So to make a style, So go to your Type Tool and You might have just I never go to the Type tool cuz Okay, so the black area, if you double-click it, Okay, you go to black arrow. You can see it change over here with a t. Double-click it and [LAUGH] It's like one two gets the word. One, two, three gets the line. One, two, three, four gets the whole So watch this, one, two, three, four, Is that helpful Dan? I don't know, I do it, so maybe it is. So, either way, how you do it, every last little bit of it. And let's go to Window &gt; This little panel appears. So I'm going to drag the top little I'm gonna put mine there, cool. You're given a basic What I'd like to do is create my own one. So we're going to create new style. It's this turned up page, Click on that and we've given this Double click it, okay? It opens it up and tells you a few things. It tells you that it is bold, You can see lots of things. It's the VINZ green, all cool stuff. And I was just gonna save it so There's a couple of little things though, so what you wanna just double check So, especially when you're new, make sure That can catch it out later on when you can start stacking styles on top of it's just too hard. So we're gonna give it a name, Always give it the client name at the loads of different heading styles and Cuz they can actually jump from one paste the text. So that makes it nice and Let's click OK, give it a name. Make sure it's not based on anything, What do we do now? Is we go back to my black arrow, Come down here. Okay, so I'm on my last page, page four. You can kinda tell down You could go to your pages panel, you know you're in the right spot. I'm gonna turn the preview mode off. So remember W key and what I want to do, and type in so, so I'm totally abusing the, [LAUGH] I don't Anyway, you get the idea. You can capitalize it. So we've got our text and we don't want to have to go through our Imagine if we just clicked this button. [SOUND] Gasp, horror. So that is the power of a paragraph style, highlight it, make it, Gets even better, right? So I'm gonna click off so we've got And let's say that up here, I want it to be the red, So with nothing selected, And go into Basic character formats, They're actually quite powerful, You can see I can change the font, Actually, what I want is the character And you can see I wanna change Then click OK. And the good thing about it is And that's really handy when it's not so much of a big deal when we're dealing you can imagine a longer So let's do one more together, Let's do it again with the body copying. So I'm going to select all the body copy, click in there once. Go to Edit &gt; Select All, that grabs all of the text. Or the weird Dan way, black arrow, With it all selected, remember we downloaded, So I'm gonna delete that and And I'm gonna start with, I'll use medium. Okay in terms of font size for things like Word and If you pick up any magazine, you check all the body copy text. It's more likely to be ten, okay? That's a real common body copy size. 9.5 is common as well, If I was you, print it off physically so you can see. You'll be like ooh, that's a bit big or, We're gonna run with say that it's the client's And we've got lots of kind So let's go 12-point and what I'd so Roboto 12 point, love it and So it's all selected, It's called Paragraph Style 1, Now, what are we gonna check? Make sure it's not based on anything. So, no paragraph style. Give it a name, VNZ Body Copy, click OK. And hopefully now, it's ready to go. Okay, so I can click off, black arrow, I've got some more text to bring in, so it has a bit of room. Now we're gonna bring in our files and nothing selected Import File, Click Open, drag out a box. Woah, it's remembered my last We need to select all the text, so select I didn't select it all, keep selecting I'll leave the problems I have in just in case you do it, Cool? And again, remember, our perk is that, let's say later on we want to adjust We can have nothing selected, then go into Basic character formats and What you might do is just move this over, that you can kinda see it. And watch this, I want mine to be, Yeah, it's what I want. And I don't like the medium, And can I deal with the font size that is? Yes, it's fine. Okay, let's click OK. All right, so paragraph styles you'll it's also adjusted this page. Okay, so control a nice big, And one thing I might do is, I'm gonna leave it for the moment cuz gets exported InDesign's clever and But what you probably might want to do that there's enough room for Okay fits in there, I'm gonna leave it cuz I want to show you All right, that is it for Let's get into the next video where clean up our design a little bit. See you in a sec. Hi, everyone. Welcome to the tips and tricks video. It's a mixture of tips and tricks and Because we've we've got to this stage we've learned lots of the tools But I guess I just wanted to But then, we're actually just going just make this thing a little So let's dive in, some tips and tricks, plus just some doing things All right, because I wanna do this image here, right? See it there, the fern? Okay, I could do that, bring it in dragging it out and resizing it. I'll show you the trick that I do. I use my Finder. So on a Mac there is there Finder. PCs have Windows, okay? And I'm just going to move it. There's my exercise files. I'm going to grab image three and And you can kind of just It's kinda cool? Another cool trick is, you'll notice if I if I zoom out, it's actually quite a big A nice little trick is click off in the there's this frame fitting, okay? So it just says fit frame proportionately. And it just scales itself down so There's a couple of other options, but the first one's gonna be your best friend, And I know there's a bit I can kind of adjust it, Here we go, that looks good. Next thing I wanna do is I'm gonna close I'm gonna grab the Line Tool. Don't really need to know how it works, I'm gonna turn my Preview back here all the way across And it does it's very best to try and It's pretty clever that way. If it doesn't, though, you can see the Shift key So do that again. Click+hold, drag, hold Shift watch, just snaps it as a straight line, and I'm going to give it, I'm gonna turn Fill just for But the Stroke, click on this. We're gonna pick the VNZ red, and So I'm gonna zoom in a little bit, Hit the black arrow, You can kinda see that's Another little trick I wanna show you it's a little version of that It's a little fictional company. If you do wanna go visit New Zealand, brilliant website for But I made a little own brand for So the little kiwi. And I can go to Import &gt; File and But I'll show you a cool little trick say something like something We looked at it earlier But I wanna recolor it, okay? So say it's an icon like You can just open it up in Illustrator. You don't need much Illustrator skills. So in my Finder, and where is it? Exercise files. I double-clicked Logo two, this AI file, There he is. Now, instead of doing it the official just gonna use my black arrow, You can use your shortcut. Jump into InDesign. If you are wondering how I'm cuz like, how do they come up, Just kind of allows you to, yeah, allows you to pick which On a PC its Ctrl+Tab, I'm pretty sure. Okay, so I'm in InDesign. I'm gonna go to Edit &gt; Paste. And the difference here is that it's which is no big drama. But the real big perk is I can over here red color. This means you can color. It doesn't work with images, okay, but it works with these vector graphics Icons, logos, perfect. Work the same if I wanted If I wanted it to be, I can't do it now, If I try and fill it with a color, But if I copied and pasted it from All right, this fellow here, I want to flip, Next thing I want to do is, So let's go to Import &gt; File. Let's go to text three quote, One of the weird things you'll notice you, okay? But it's gonna happen to you eventually. So whenever I drag out a box, So to get rid of that, So I've got nothing ready to go. Before I get and start importing text, I And you can kind of see why. See it's selected as VNZ Heading. It's blue, means that every new So what am I do just to you could pick Basic Paragraph or Either one works for me. And close it down. Just means whenever I import text now it's Text 3 Quote. Drag it out. A bit more usable. I'm gonna align it so I'm gonna turn my Preview key back off. And what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna pick, Didot, I'm gonna use Didot Italic. I'm not. I'm just gonna use the Didot Bold. I'm gonna use the fill color, okay? And remember, unless I have it selected, it's not gonna do exactly Who remembers how I do that? How I make sure the text You're like, click that one. Yes, that one, okay? Apply to text. Scroll down and I'll use the green. Now, a little shortcut We looked at it a little bit earlier on. I use this one quite often. I select the text I wanna I look down at my keyboard, hold Cmd+Shift the period or the full stop, depending It gets bigger and bigger. And the comma, or the less than, it's next to M down the bottom It's just if you hold down, so And hit period or comma, okay? It should get bigger and smaller, okay? And how big do I want mine? About that. I'm not gonna look at the regular version. If you're not too sure how high And InDesign will give you a good You can change it from here, Also gonna do, is I'm gonna select I'm gonna make sure you are Roboto. That's a nice little balance of fonts kind of display font, which is our Didot, And I want this to be bigger again. So I'm gonna Select All, And use my shortcuts. Wanted to kind of break All right, So I'm gonna select on this, and All right, Bring this up. I always find that I've gotta kinda lean in my chair, have nothing selected, and I've got my eyes half squinted, And what you need to do as well is even if it's going out digitally. Often it's seeing them in a different that doesn't look quiet right. I'm happy enough with it. You can totally skip on now. I'm gonna do the last page just You can follow along with me, if you like. Yeah, you can skip on, just a bit of design-ness getting done. All right, I'm gonna cheat. I'm gonna grab you, I've copied it and And I'm gonna W key. And I'll work a little faster now. So if you find like you can't keep up, I guess give you a sense of the flow Who's the bird? I think it's at number five. So I'm gonna drag him in. Love this little bird. Resize it. I like the way it sits in there. I'm gonna make sure these both I want to set this up at the bottom. Hold Shift to click both of them. And move it to a size. What I might do is, I want to cut it so Cuz what I wanna do is grab the rectangle Actually let's use that full margin down Rght-click it, Arrange &gt; Send to back. Make sure the fill is nuclear red. I'm gonna grab the Type Tool. Last little tip for [LAUGH] I never click on the Type Tool. If I wanna get to the Type Tool, This is kind of out of the scope, but watch this. If I hover above any of these tools, can you see in brackets, This one has V in the brackets. This one, the Type Tool has T. So literally, if I type T on my keyboard, A goes to my Direction Selection Tool. V is my Black Arrow. So when I say go back to the Black Arrow, you'll get used to hitting And then back to T for the Type Tool. Try not to drag a box over If I click on this, It's a pain, it's kind of stuck to it. Often, you want to it be separate. So I'm gonna grab my T key, Then move it in using my black arrow, And what I might do is line it up. Line it up there, line it up there, It didn't snap, there we go. Okay, and I'm gonna do Centered. I'm going to do Fill &gt; I'm gonna make it Roboto Bold. I'm gonna make the font And I'm going to lower it down. Beautiful, last thing I'm gonna Again, you could use I'm just gonna bring in Logo Black. If you can't make this work because maybe and drag, or you're finding have nothing selected, File &gt; Import. You end up at the same place. Now, resizing, remember, Cuz if I don't, the frame just moves. Gotta hold down the Cmd key and Or if you're on a PC, the Ctrl+Shift key. I'm just gonna scale it down, give it the head bob side to side look. [LAUGH] And be like, And I'm gonna go like that. Nice enough. All right, I thought that was it, there was one last little thing And let's resize this. I'm gonna use this to I'll move it over here for the moment. I want this image. I like it as a full kind So I've just grabbed the frame and I'm gonna hit the Fit Frame Proportionally And then, try and It's a little bit hard cuz You might have to move the text box Cool, and It's just gonna be a nice box here. I'm gonna bring in the text. We could use the File &gt; Import. I'm gonna use my cheap way. So text for cover, drag it out. I'm going to select it all. You're going to be white or paper. You're going to be 16. Lidding's going to be about there. That works for me. Black arrow. Here we go. You'll notice that I didn't go to you should always use Doesn't work when you have text selected. What's gonna happen if I hit the V V key. [LAUGH] You got it, okay? There is a way around it, Hitting the Esc key gets you to the V key. That's why, if you hold this down or That's the reason they gave All right, that's looking fine for me. That is actually it this time. W key, look back, Okay, we're gonna go and Export now. So before I Export, check it to make sure it But you get that idea. Let's move on to the next video where Hi there, this video is all about we love it, now we're gonna get it out for We're gonna send it out as a jpeg, and just kinda like separate then I'll show you how Okay, this pdf is really for it's got crop max in the corners, it's a nice and easy to do, so All right, so the first thing we would do when we're Okay so let's say we just wanna send this maybe you're designing, not a broad show something, a banner for your website or So let's go file, let's go to export, there he is, [LAUGH] File Export and it's probably going to default, So there will be PDF print, Give it a name along the top here and I'll traditional with the top here, do you want Pages or spreads, okay pages means its four, separately, spreads is gonna combine And we'll leave spreads on for you can mess around with maximum, it will basically determine the quality So, if you have it at maximum and what you need it for, you may have medium until you find something Resolution, don't worry about format resolution you can worry about this. Okay remember we talked about that if you wanted to go to print, it needs little medium ground, I'm gonna email it terms of file size but it's gonna look The space, cuz it's going via email, it's gonna use RGB for sending this to our if I was sending this to a printer, We'll use the PDF, Okay, so I'm gonna go back to my 150-ish at the moment, it's pretty hardcore, But for the moment, let's click Export, let's go check it. So on my desktop, I've got that file and there is my Jpegs, three, it's kind of made it weird, I called it V1, and so the first page, My second page is called V12, V13, And so page 1, page 2, cuz remember we switched it to spreads, I might go through now, and just to make it a little bit clearer, Page 2-3, and this one's going to be P3. All right, three JPEGs, if you needed them to be smaller, the resolution, and Let's look at doing a PDF next, okay so you've got a quote from him or her, and these things printed and they've given Okay, so we go to File, we go to Export, pdf will give you way better quality okay retains all lovely vector goodness, Cool, now leave the same name and in here, The best one to go for, I'm not gonna if I go to High Quality Print, okay? That's gonna really for the printer, cuz there's a lot of settings in here, Just stick at a High Quality Print, there's a couple of little the other option you might use It's gonna give you a pdf it might be what you want for it's gonna keep the file size nice and And basically it starts messing makes a really small file size, emailing and downloading from a website. I want high quality print, that's what the only thing I might do is under the printer, we wanted that we've what we're gonna say is, I want to That's a bit confusing, That'll be what the printer requires and that is actually given to the printer, But it's not what a printer needs, okay? Crop max is what we need, and we're Which in our case is an eighth of an inch, those are the only two other If you've decided you're doing an advert require bleed, okay, you can just, you can You'll see it's modified here? It's because we turned these two on, have a look at the final result, I did this earlier on on page over set text means is a text box and we can't see it, remember the little So this is super handy to be like, phew. Okay I had it there on purpose, so I hit I'm gonna leave it, I wanted to show Now on my particular computer, So let's open it up in Acrobat, you need to jump to your desktop, find so, it's on the desktop, under Double click it and open it, your computer is I don't even know download the free Acrobat Reader Program, So things I wanna show you, is these are the crop marks, All a crop mark is we know that, so if we joining other line, it means it's gonna So it's showing you the bleed, and if they follow these guillotine lines, perfectly US letter once it's all trimmed bigger bit of paper, so that they can Okay, I'm gonna zoom out, I'll go to the I'd wanna turn spreads on sending this to spreads on, they might depends on But let's say I do, jump back in here, over here, I'm gonna switch it to spreads. Some printers I deal with don't want some of them do, just gonna explore over here we go, you Page two, is the spread. Two pages together and Is ready to go to the printer, it's crazy small how small it gets, okay? Once it's being turned into a PDF, and ready PDF, And if you do, kind of bring up some confusing things and all sorts of other things that just say, look, I'm new to this, And make the necessary changes to the PDF, first job and you are printing 10,000 of So get a proof, it'll cost you a little a $100 dollars, but you'll get a proof longer, but at least you'll have a copy in Or it comes back and it's horrible, you'll All right, my friends, let's get into the next video where Hi, everyone, this video is all about packaging and What do I mean by that? It means, I've got this InDesign file and Not as a PDF or as a JPEG, I need to all the images that I've used, And you might be sending it to them you need to give them all the files. They might be a client and It might be that you're you need to start working You can package them all up, okay? Get a folder. Inside of this folder we have all the And we can zip them up and share it via some sort of file The other thing we'll look at is So you'll end up with this IDML file. That means you can send it to people that It's a handy little All right, let's jump in and Okay, so to package this all up, Make sure it's saved first. So File &gt; Save, okay? If it's grayed out, it just means It means that you're done. You don't have to click it again. So we're gonna go to File and There it is there. Okay, click on Package, and And this is gonna open. It's gonna say, cuz it's gonna gather all of our all the fonts that we've used, And it's just used the name of our Well, it works for me. These are all on by default. Let's click Package and Before we do that, we get this. It just says be careful Cuz there's a gray area I've licensed it using my Creative Cloud, And so you're kind of paying for And it's just saying, if you share you're not meant to, so So we say, yes, sir, we definitely won't. We'll click OK, I should go and fix it. I'm not going to cuz I like to show Okay, so what's happened? Nothing, well, something has. Let's check our desktop. So Finder on my desktop, my InDesign Inside of there is a couple of things, One is there's a PDF? It made a PDF on the way through, Cuz it phases this all up now and stick It means instead of having to I can just check the PDF So that's handy. This is the most important file. This is the INDD. This is your InDesign file. This is the one that we've created and This one here is interesting the IDML. What this is for is this is for So we're using CC 2019 now. If you're sending this to somebody they won't be able to open But don't worry, they can try and And 99.9% of it will work unless only can be used in the latest version. So if you send this to it's like try opening up the IDML file and Cool, so Links are, So it's gonna show me all the logos that we used in this document, Really handy just to get all your files anything else. Packaging can be, if you're connected you're like, Okay, they're on your machine somewhere. It means you can just package it all These are all copies of the originals. Your computer's gonna have So these are all copies, and There's the Didot that I've used, Okay, now it hasn't actually Adobe are pretty So if you got nothing in this list, notice Roboto's not in there? What it's assuming is you're gonna send And they're also gonna have It's gonna open up the document and And InDesign will be clever and say, So Adobe don't like sharing their people have made. You're not meant to just that's how Adobe get around it, okay? They link to the fonts, but they don't If you're using fonts in your machine, If we used Arial, it'll be listed here But if the person you're sending it you've used an Adobe font, they'll be are missing fonts, and if they're accessible through the Adobe Cool, so fonts, links. Lets talk about this It is a copy of my original, okay? So this version that I've got open in the copy, okay? We've got that here. So that's the one we were working on. Okay, I'm gonna make it green just so [LAUGH] There's a green dot at least. Okay, that's the one that I'm working on. I packaged it and it made a completely You see them there. So this can be a little You've got two versions of it. Cuz if I make adjustments to this, there's this version kicking around So I guess you just gotta you're not working on both together, okay? This guy here is meant to be maybe This is on my Mac. I right-click it and say Compress, and I get a nice little If you're on a PC, you go to this one called Send To, and You end up with the little ZIP file. It's just kinda like that folder all shareable. So that is packaging your document, You're given this folder and Or archive it for yourself on to Amazon Cloud Drive, Dropbox, All right, my friends, one thing before You're like what is that? That looks like a virus or something. It is just a little temporary file. Don't delete him. He's only ever there when If I save this and close it, If I go back into that same folder, If I open it back up again by clicking So this is kinda like, it just hangs around [LAUGH] when this Don't worry about him. He just helps out. If your computer crashes, it means it All right, that is definitely it for Hey there, this video is all sends me a file, okay? They send me an InDesign file and There's missing fonts, all sorts of stuff has gone wrong, That is the topic of this section. Let's jump in. All right, so Okay, and somebody has sent us a file or You can use this file or let's say there's a bunch of InDesign Okay and you're going to open them and So let's work out that. Let's go to file open. Okay, and somebody has sent us in our folder and this one here, so we've been Okay we're gonna open it up and it's gonna it's missing the links, there's only two images so So click okay. it's also gonna say I'm Let's deal with the fonts first. Now's if you are lucky, it means that it's gonna say, we found them on Adobe Fonts, So if you click activate and Okay you just click activate and the fonts Okay, it's going to work for one of these. Let's click there, you will notice that this is going to It should be this one as well, You can see it's appeared up here its There we go, But the regular version of this same font isn't accessible on And this is going to happen to you a lot. So, how to get around this, It's going back to the source. Say a colleague of mine sent me this. I'll say, hey can you send me And hopefully they can send it to me, okay, seems I have to go pay for So that's one way of doing it. The other way is actually just So what I'm going to do is actually I If you click Close, and you can go back to the exact thing by Doesn't matter whether you clicked it in come back in here. You both end up with this little window, You can see here, it says, all right, you can tell which one's not that one's So we can't find it. We haven't bought it. We just wanna switch it out for So now we click on this one. And you can see here it's gonna And I can pick. I can go through here and And if I click Change All, replace this font with Museo. I might replace it with Roboto I'm going to use Roboto Regular, Keep an eye in the background here, keep and it looks very similar to what it was, So phase one go find the font, get it from the original designer, And you might ind before you actually it might have been pink and You have to be in W, so Preview Mode to it just means you are missing a font, and Find the one that's broken, you click on All right, so that's the fonts fixed up. Now let's look at the images. So W key with it on, You can see the question mark at the top It disappears when the W key is on, okay? So we need to go through and find, they We got a warning at the beginning saying, To see our links, we can either go to our on from the course, open up links and it will pop up. Here you can see they both have little So, we're gonna relink them, okay? It happens quite a bit when they'll send you files and And you just need to connect them back up. If you don't have the images, say They just sent you this thing but no images, You can't magic them out. They're not actually built They're separate. Okay, they are linked You're gonna have to go back to them and can you send them to me please? Or you have to find new images, or not connected up, click on the first one, relink, so Click on him and go find them. I've got them hiding in here special for They're in existing files. There's a folder called images. You can see along the top here, That's that one. And let's click open. The cool thing about it is it's found other missing files in So often say you open up a document you'd be like, man, It's almost there. Yeah, we link the first one. It'll go through and try and It's pretty clever. So my files are ready to go now. And yeah the fonts are fixed and The one other problem you might run into mentioned it, is if you open up a file and It's made in a too newer You're going to have to go back hey, can you save me a packaged file? So say you are using 2019 version the person who made the file somehow they're in the future, Okay, this version 2019 is So you have to go to them and say, where is it the file package Okay, package it up and that's the one that will open up in where he is, we did that on our It's in that folder. Remember that guy? Okay, if the file you've been sent won't you double click the IDML file. One question I get a bit is I've got the No, if you've got a pdf, you can't start InDesign doesn't open up pdfs A pdf is kinda like a squished version You do get stuck like that and you're Open the PDF up in Adobe Illustrator. That will kind of work, but no, All right, one thing before we leave, you can see that it's all overset text. It's because we ended up Remember we went, all right, The font is actually wider. So I'm just gonna have to make sure that trouble, okay? Because these text boxes weren't So keep an eye out for overset text. Is there any more in this document? No, it's not. It should give you a warning. There's more there. Okay, but just a little note when they might not fit in the boxes provided. All right, that's definitely it. Let's get onto the next video, Hi there, So you're new to InDesign, but you're like, man, this is quite hard. I wish there was some pre-made templates That is an amazing way to get started, and I'll show you a couple So within InDesign, when you go to click on this New document, there So if you go to Print, and the standard blank pages, but So say you like this one here. You're like, that could work for me. If you click on it and you hit Download, it will download a template ready to The thing that it won't You'll have to replace it with the images. I'll show you what I mean, so It's got a little blue tick cuz I've already downloaded it. So I click on it once, hit Download. Once it's downloaded, click Open, Now, when you first open it'll ask you to sync the fonts, What you'll notice is that frames in here to represent So if we have a look, you kinda get a sense of what You can hit Preview and And you download it and it's like, You download it and you're like, A couple of things, W key gets rid of that preview and this, to go through and So this gray box here, Let's go to our Exercise Files. Grab another one of Phil's images, And then we're gonna hit Fit You have to switch out for you can see how templates One of the cool things about Envato We looked at Envato Elements earlier remember royalty free images? Okay, so as part of that $15 a month, it's part of Elements, let's have a look, Okay, I just search for brochure, also these templates. If I click on See More, I get a huge there's a couple there, not that many. But on Envato there are hundreds. Okay, so you can go through, It's all part of the same subscription And when it downloads, it's much the same as that first template So I've downloaded and Okay, I downloaded this They've given you some cool things double-click it open it. So that's what it could look like. Just like the other one from InDesign, though, when you actually open up they've actually given you InDesign files, Try the INDD. Okay, and if it says, hey, which one do you open up? That one there, okay, IDML. Okay, so we're gonna open up the INDD. It's gonna have a missing font. And you can see what we did To go through and fix missing fonts and But in this case we're gonna ignore And this is the way you can W key on, W key off, okay. You can just go through select term, you're gonna start adjusting it, Templates are just a great way. I don't know, especially when you're new Get a lot of the structure in InDesign, I like to think. All right, so that's the templates. We've looked at brochures, Stationery, business cards, go check it the limited amount in there, or All right, I will see you in The end. Hi there, We made it, you made it, What can you do next? Next steps for you, this InDesign class is but as you can imagine, So remember, at Envato Tuts+, you will find lots of other maybe The other thing you can do is on my name, Daniel Walter Scott. I've got some other courses, There is one that is the same or aimed at the same kind of level. There is a Photoshop for beginners, Search for both of those, Other than that, that's the end. I will hopefully see you in another video. I hope you're enjoyed InDesign, Bye now.