[narrator] For thousands of years, mankind has questioned the existence Sooner or later, we're going to see some We need to prepare. The chances that aliens exist It's entirely likely there's intelligent Today, astronomers are already But what if these messages and aliens believe humans are the enemy? If they arrived as conquerors, it could be the end of Is an invasion inevitable? [man] This is an alien attack! It would be like Godzilla meeting Bambi. I think there's almost 100% chance that there are alien forms of life If extraterrestrials exist, they would Their vast spacecrafts may And there is no way Many think that this scenario is possible, who has worked with the British Ministry There's no reason why couldn't already have It could be a year's time, it could be a month, it could be a week, There's no way to determine or what their intentions would be. Extraterrestrial contact with our planet Whoo! Nothing would ever be the same. The arrival of extraterrestrials could It's impossible to know but scientist Ben Moore thinks If alien life came here, they would be or because they were unfriendly. Our Earth is just a mere speck Statistically, scientists believe that there could be millions of The Earth orbits the Sun, But our Sun is not unique. It is only one of more than 100 the Milky Way. And even the Milky Way is just one The universe is a very big place on the order of a trillion galaxies, each with half a trillion stars, it seems like a fairly silly notion to imagine that we're alone in the cosmos. Some scientists believe it's only a matter They might be closer than ever before. Whoo! The most incredible guy on Earth. Beer! If there is life, intelligent life, other civilizations, in our small part in just half a dozen years or so. Does life exist in space? The answer might lie within Earth's Located over 34 million miles from Earth, researchers speculate that could support extraterrestrial life. In this infinite universe, the chances are that gave rise to life will have arisen One place that we might find life There are suggestions, for example, In 2003, ESA sent the Mars Express probe Its mission - find water, The images from the Mars camera deep valleys that cut through At one point in time, And in some Mars craters, There are even entire glaciers capping We see images of riverbeds. So we do know that Mars Scientists have been able to retrace Four billion years ago, a gigantic sea This water would have been enough Except suddenly, the climate changed. For some reason, Mars lost And the water evaporated or It may have had life in the past. But if just a small amount there is still hope for life on Mars. A recent promising sign - These features can occur and rock slides back over it. Hiding under the barren surface there might still be liquid water, Except on Mars, temperatures can drop With no atmospheric protection, dangerous cosmic rays can Is it even possible for life To discover extraterrestrial life, to find out that we are it would be one of the biggest, if not the single biggest Extraterrestrial arrival would be No one would be ready. Our vulnerable planet could be If there was an alien spacecraft we may only have a few days They are very hard to see. To answer the age-old question scientists take a deeper look that mimics Mars' icy climate, Antarctica. Researchers from are looking for extremophilic organisms, microorganisms that can handle They find cyanobacteria, tiny creatures that can as low as negative 58 degrees. [he speaks German] [translation] These extremophilic that life can exist in the most We find life in the most So why shouldn't organisms also exist At his lab in Berlin, Jean-Pierre de Vera needs to test can cope with even more He has designed a special to put the mosses [translation] This is our Mars chamber. We've made it as close as possible These temperatures go extremely low, negative 58 to negative To match the paper-thin the pressure is dropped to six millibars. Air on Earth contains less than The air in this chamber is Under these conditions, most earthly But the extremophilic organisms [translation] So far, what I've has been very surprising. the fungi could form proteins These algae and lichen could still even under Mars conditions. For this reason, We need to do these To assist with this study, is called into action With a risky setup outside, the astronauts on the external surface Several hundred samples, including will be exposed to cosmic radiation, If these organisms can survive in space, they may have also managed [translation] Life can exist on Mars. Based on the experiments we've done, is a viable planet. I believe we need to seriously look for life on Mars. Proving simple life exists on Mars the greater discussion Ours will be the generation that makes that alters everything we know about But others in the cosmos There is no way to anticipate Their arrival would shock humans. Are they friendly or not? Who knows? I would hope they are friendly and that first contact would be Humans need to find proof before they make contact. [man speaks Russian] March 14th, 2016. At the Russian Space Station in Baikonur, they are launching another new project ExoMars is a joint project of and the Russian Space Agency, Roskosmos. The mission is monitored via Flight director Michel Denis makes sure [he speaks French] [translation] ExoMar's mission That could be life that used to exist Since on Earth, methane the Trace Gas Orbiter is designed and then find the source of the gas. [translation] The methane on Mars We believe that those volcanoes So it could be produced by minerals or In the next phase of the mission, Since cosmic radiation makes the surface the rover will search for life Protected from lethal radiation microbes could still be alive. This is the first time in history will drill two meters deep [translation] The deeper we drill, increasing the chances The soil samples are examined A special set of instruments analyzes the drill-cores But even after all this effort, there is still a chance that Mars There are still other potentially The two moons orbiting Saturn - could hold life in the ice Gas giant Jupiter also has its own Underneath their ice-crusts, they may have oceans of liquid saltwater [translation] Our next hot candidates We definitely want to look for life One of these moons is very active and we can tell that it is That's exactly what we want to see. If something is coming out of the ocean, Future missions could finally reveal Unless highly developed extraterrestrials Scientists believe A species that had evolved for would certainly have the capabilities [they speak French] Could these visitors be dangerous? What would such an advanced If aliens decided to conquer our Earth, Look at it! Look at it! -Look at what? If they arrived as conquerors, it could be If extraterrestrials arrive, from a planet that is very far How do we identify One man is getting closer to the answer. Swiss astronomer Michel Mayor is It was here in 1995 that he [he speaks French] [translation] We have come here to measure as many stars In just his first week, Mayor was able to pinpoint 142 stars and there something very peculiar Star 51 Pegasi seemed to be moving, a small strange wobble that made him think [translation] Looking at them from Earth, most stars appear to have But we have noticed that 51 Pegasi actually changed its speed Mayor has a theory - the gravitational But the planet itself is tugging back, causing the star to Astronomers call this which causes a shift in the way the light As it moves forward, it is seen as bluish. As it moves back, it is perceived as red. Mayor checks these tiny deviations in Mayor is positive, [translation] This was our proof that For the first time ever, A planet outside our solar system. The newly discovered planet 50 light-years away from the Earth and [translation] This was the first time that actually has a planet. The discovery of 51 Pegasi b is We now know for certain that The discovery also is another reason are convinced extraterrestrials exist, including well-known I think the probability is near 100% that we will find intelligent life Do any planets have the potential but the development Could there be a second Earth - a planet exists with the same [mission control] One, zero and lift-off In 2009, the Kepler telescope The telescope's main task - fly through Kepler has spotted over 2,000 exoplanets and the telescope keeps making The Kepler satellite has giving us We know that between 50 to a 100% have planets going around them. And so the chances that we are I think is very close to zero. To this day, almost 4,000 Like Corot 7b. 490 light-years away, this planet, At first glance, planet HD 189733b But it has its blue color but hazardous glass particles With brutal winds of 5,000 miles per hour, it may even rain molten glass 55 Cancri e may actually possess The surface is a scorching and the atmosphere of this exoplanet contains high amounts Life as we know it on Earth A shadow Earth or Earth 2.0, Alien invaders may come from a place Then why would they need to come to ours? [tires screech] If they truly come to wage war, Military experts believe that facing If an alien civilization has the ability to reach Earth, they undoubtedly If their civilizations are how can we prepare for contact? Another scientist is also to find a planet where life is possible. Heike Rauer is an astrophysicist [she speaks German] [translation] The big goal we have Habitable ones where Heike Rauer knows the key is to find the two attributes that with the existence of intelligent life. [translation] If I pushed the Earth closer Some of our oceans would evaporate, that was not inhabitable and if I pushed it would be so cold and we would just have an ice planet. Our planet wouldn't be habitable So there's a specific We call this area the &quot;habitable zone&quot;. This habitable zone is the only place But for that to happen, like the thin gas layer, protecting life emanating from stars, [translation] because we breathe and we need So a planet must also have She uses a trick to quickly find Whenever a planet flies past its star, at this precise moment Using this strategy, researchers more than 30 planets in the habitable One planet looks particularly promising a planet 1,400 light-years away This planet is amazingly Its star has a similar size For a round trip around the star just a little longer And the distance to the star We're getting closer and closer to I think it's only a matter of time now and I think it could be A new European telescope has the means This advanced device is called the E-ELT for short. By 2024, the telescope will be It will be the largest At the assembly hall of technicians test the parts that will later So what we have here of the primary mirror of the ELT. So we need a very large mirror which is impossible to build today Close to 800 individual hexagonal mirrors will be put together to create Up to now we've been building But now we have the technology to build 40 meters in diameter is as big and it's enormous. The scientists hope will finally prove that there is life They want to use the telescope As soon as the planet moves using the color, scientists can determine The ultimate proof is to identify some ozone, for example, in the atmosphere of this planet that can only be produced by life. By plants, by little creatures in... With the new telescope, researchers within the next 30 years. So it's definitely in our lifetime. we will be able, with E-ELT, to really understand if there Is it possible that extraterrestrials Are they planning a visit Sooner or later, we're going of extraterrestrial life. We need to prepare. An extraterrestrial attack would be the [they speak French] Is life out there like on Earth? It probably shares some of those Is there any way to predict Some researchers believe that aliens I think there's a great chance that some extraterrestrials So, for example, eyes are very useful. Legs are very useful for mobility. Those things may be present So I would not rule out being indistinguishable Different environmental conditions would look drastically different. These organisms would need to endure If they came from a planet extraterrestrials may have adapted to fight against gravity's pull. Small, compact creatures would have Or a planet with less gravity, aliens would need much less muscle Their planet could be populated All life on Earth is made up but in another world from entirely different On Saturn's moon, for example, but there are still other building blocks So creatures on Titan could use ethane Then the building block would And those creatures might breath So life could be very alien There's also the possibility that Aliens could potentially send their own When we actually meet them in person they may already have bioengineering So don't be shocked to find that Many scientists think that aliens have developed advanced Yes, it's perfectly possible It just takes a lot of effort and a lot A journey through the stars Russian millionaire Yuri Milner into the US Breakthrough Initiatives And others are on board, and even star physicist Stephen Hawking. It's time to commit to finding the answer It is important for us to know The plan is to visit our neighboring only 4.2 light-years away from Earth. Scientists have discovered that the red dwarf star Proxima Centauri Proxima b sits perfectly making the planet a prime candidate But it would take an unmanned probe Milner and Hawking believe we need which will be able to make If the probe weighed only a few grams, Extremely powerful lasers on Earth and in just ten minutes, the probe at a quarter of the speed of light. For the first time in human history we can We can actually reach them. Traveling at a speed it would only take 20 years to reach Alpha Centauri. If sentient life is based upon expansion then it's entirely likely are also engaging Advanced civilizations could have Some researchers believe can tap the energy of entire stars that they then use We have come from horse and cart to Stealth fighter and space rocket Now imagine a civilization which is not difficult to conceive of So let's not rule out the fact that they may come knocking on our door. Invasion by a higher-tech civilization In an attack, we would Humans would need to find shelter If this crisis would come to fruition, I think it's important to consider approaching the Earth and consider what resources to allow us to defend ourselves. And time may be running out. Aliens may already be heading But some alien hunters One of the most famous hunters Seth Shostak has devoted 50 years the search for extraterrestrial The American astronomer is convinced There are a trillion, so that's a million It's like you bought You know, a couple of them So it strikes me as inevitable that there Someday we may be able with extraterrestrial civilizations. But are they already To find out, SETI researchers like the Allen telescope array These telescopes can receive from deep within the universe. We point them in the which we think might have planets, which might have intelligent life. And we just look for signals that Signals that at one spot &quot;Hey! You know, I don't know what they look like, And once upon a time, a signal 1977, the Big Ear radio telescope has its antennas Using these antennas, every radio wave lying in its orbit. And suddenly it received Astrophysicist Jerry Ehman was working He could hardly believe it when In those days, all the data was just and he would just go through and that had happened the night before. and he gets so excited about it, This &quot;wow!&quot; signal came 200 light-years away from Earth. With a 30-fold standard deviation, the signal was strong enough to be heard and it may have been sent out But the &quot;wow!&quot; signal was To this day, it is unclear if it is or if it was caused If extraterrestrials are what would happen if they People would respond Some people would OK, nobody knows what's going on. Chaos and violence would Or world as we know it would collapse. Here's somebody. Come on. -Is he dead? Fear, shock, panic, anger. It's entirely likely that humans At the SETI Institute in California, Seth Shostak and his colleagues The astronomers evaluate data from To date, they have not found any evidence Therefore, many scientists We looked for radio signals but that's looking at the wrong frequency. Why should they use The alien hunters have not given up. To finally get in touch some SETI researchers think that we should Instead of listening to distant signals, our own messages If you send to some nearby stars ten light-years, 20 light-years - while you are still alive It would not be the first time have sent a message to aliens. In 1977, the Voyager 1 probe Since then, it has reliably sent back data Precious cargo is stored on board. The &quot;golden record&quot; - a copper disk that holds music, [dog barks] Greetings recorded A way to kindly introduce [American boy] Hello from [German woman] [French woman] [Japanese woman] [Spanish man] [narrator] In 2012, Voyager 1 became It has flown further into space than This cosmic message-in-a-bottle even deeper into interstellar space. By 2025, the probe will and continue into the cosmos, Will the aliens ever find I don't think so. They're about the size and they're dark and their transmitters So how are you ever going It's like looking for, I don't know, a little bit of flotsam [laughs] Acoustic signals are already [signal oscillating] The most famous signal was The message created by astronomer to provide information about human and tell the recipient exactly So far, we haven't received Seth Shostak thinks In fact, he wants to offer The more information they receive, I would send the internet, actually. I mean, if you walk down to the beach and it's one sentence, you may never But if it was a thousand books, But others think that these incalculably more vulnerable. Enemy aliens might leverage into a full-scale attack. I think it's a rather powerful beamed messages Who knows what's out there It's like being a four-year-old in the middle of a dark forest. Does she explore and learn the situation, or does she go running screaming &quot;Monsters, hello! Everybody, I'm here&quot;? Critics say that stopping these messages is the only way to prevent Before proceeding, there needs about what these messages should contain I think we should hold discussions, serious scientific investigations before we beam messages into space. Early projects, like Yuri Milner's, For the best message that a reward of $1 million is up for grabs. Though he previously also warned Stephen Hawking now supports the endeavor. It is time to open our eyes, our ears If extraterrestrials now it's too late for us to hide. Any society that could do that, any society that could come here they've got bigger antennas than we do, our airport radars, all sorts of stuff, so Pandora's Box might already be open. At this very moment, [man speaks German on radio] If there are more intelligent, and therefore more we should be very careful These fears are not unfounded. In the history of mankind, when it has always ended tragically The less technologically in some cases death and extinction, An invasion of militant aliens If the battle begins, those who could hide Aliens would need a motive to fight Earth. It is possible to conceive of other in the cosmos and for new territories or new resources. They may look at the Earth and say, Would universal war be plausible solely for our resources? With so many planets out there orbiting and all the elements that are on Earth, there's no reason to come This is an alien attack! Our planet is home To aliens, the most might actually be its inhabitants. -[thrusters whooshing] If they are warlike, it would be like It would be no contest whatsoever. Is there any way to prepare Space agencies have emergency procedures to respond to dangers Do they also have a plan Scientists and military experts what would really happen An alien civilization approaching Earth is going to first try to eliminate The simplest thing they can do is to use the electromagnetic pulse. Without warning, all energy supplies Electronic devices, and humans would be suddenly powerless. You would essentially drive human Earth's largest cities would be and most would not survive the brutal war. I'm sure that many of the nations of Earth even on their own soil as a last resort to try to stop some form Using weapons of mass destruction Luckily, there is also another strategy. The first objective would The second priority would be the capture And reverse engineer them, to produce them in significant quantities. Even if aliens haven't planned it could still turn into war Even if the aliens even if the aliens even if the aliens don't want we might get in the way because maybe Humans would have no way to escape. We still don't know what's going on. If an enemy arrives that in their technological capabilities of potentially fighting back, then perhaps your best is to accept the changing If they came here with friendship, We would hold out the hand If they came as conquerors, I think This would be a war we could not win. Only one thing is for certain - extraterrestrials arrival would The only hope is that if they do come,