I have always wanted to be self-employed. I'm really lucky to run a company like GuineaLoft Like, this is my passion. I've had these pets forever. I love caring for them. I love seeing customer reviews and just making the I've actually met a good deal of other young one that I know does it. To them, I'm kind of just the guinea pig girl. My name is Bella Lin. I'm 17 years old, and my Amazon side hustle brought in I always knew that I wanted to be an entrepreneur. Even from a young age in elementary school, I was I had a small hand knitting business. I did the lemonade stand that all kids do, and I had a I was always trying out different ways to bring in The idea for GuineaLoft definitely came from first So I would say I'm a veteran guinea pig owner. I've had them for six coming on seven years. And you know, when I had guinea pigs for the first would. I had the store bought cages, and with these guinea pig owner goes through. I decided, hey, this doesn't work anymore. Let me build something by myself. So before I even started thinking about GuineaLoft, I I was using materials like crates and bricks and other thing. But then the issue that arised was just that it It just wasn't a sustainable idea. And then from there, I felt that I had pretty much So I started to draw up in my notebook designs of what And that's kind of how I arrived at version one of the When I first launched GuineaLoft, the reception was I wasn't sure if customers were going to take the didn't put any marketing into the first 100 units. I thought that our product was just going to get When I saw that the first 100 units sold out on to this. Some of GuineaLoft's most important expenses. We have employees on payroll. We have to pay the supply chain workers and then we We also purchase things for manufacturing. There are shipping expenses. There are also fees from Amazon. Another thing is marketing. All of GuineaLoft's profits are currently being I decided not to pay myself a cut of GuineaLoft's position where that's not something that I need to I'm lucky to have parents who, you know, they make I was thinking, if I can take these few thousand worth it than paying myself something that I don't I'm pretty anxious, you know, hitting $1 million is I feel that we're going to hit that before two years. Juggling being in high school and also doing when I was in school, I'm easily doing 20 to 25 hours I definitely was thinking about possibly taking a gap I decided not to do that and to enter and then I think a big part of that was because I'm really that I'm going to get in college, and if I'm working into the college space and see what ways it can help I'm sure you all love dogs and cats, but what about Are all pets really created equal? At just $65, they GuineaLoft is a refreshing solution. You can finally see your piggy. I actually put that towards purchasing our first We had issues a few months ago where our products were estimating the shipping cycles correctly. So that's definitely aided a lot in number one, our And then another thing is that all of these new cages the acrylic laser cutter that we were able to test Some of the biggest challenges that I would say I coordination with the team in China. There is a big barrier between us: time, distance, All of our communication is in Chinese. My parents are immigrants, so I have good working I would say that that's the extent of his help. He's not really inside the operations of GuineaLoft. My mom actually isn't really involved at all. Another challenge that I've run into is just the iterations. So, for example, our hamster cage, we went And then when we listed it, to be completely honest They're saying, oh no, they're escaping. Or maybe it's too small for a few hamsters. And for us, maybe we don't have that same experience. You know, we're testing with about 4 or 5 hamsters in So definitely recognizing the differences in people's product for the customer. I think that with a lot of parents, when kids are something trivial, it's very easy to sort of shut that kids. It's not going to be serious. With my dad, he always treated me as an adult. He never made fun of my passions. I'm really glad that he never brushed that off, I 100% plan on running GuineaLoft while I'm in out of college as well. In the next five years, I'm looking at expanding into So for pretty much all small pets and then we want We're also looking at food for each pet, fun things And then of course, opening in person stores is a The ultimate goal that I have for GuineaLoft is just