Writing is like a doctor's checkup for your So many of the questions that I ask myself come up with. If you know where to look or what questions They're just invisible until you sit down If you could have a billboard for writers, Do something interesting first where you can and come out with something that people really And my books are not short in case you haven't They're big. I lift weights with your books. Yeah, they're huge. I do Tribe of Mentors and 4-Hour Body. I'm working on a book right now. It's the first book I've worked on in six Can you share about that? Well, it's actually, I can't share specifics, Tell me about hypergraphia, like what is it? I hadn't heard of it. So you could have, I guess, hypo like hypothermia Hypergraphia, in my case, is not anything term to use because I have notebook upon notebook I have effectively walls of notebooks going I mean, I have almost every workout I've ever Oh wow. And that's just one category. So graphia would refer to writing just like And I have a lot of friends who take a lot I think I take more than most, hence the hyper. And that's been I think a foundational aspect writing capacity when I ended up trying the writing. It's all research. If the writing's not working, if you don't is, have you done enough research? Do you have enough raw material? If not, get more. Don't have something interesting to write go do something interesting. When was that moment that you put on that Was it at Princeton with John McPhee before I would say that I had dabbled in writing kid or high schooler is forced to with school But I never studied the craft of writing per I'm ashamed to admit it until my, I guess, Effect with John McPhee and I'm sure I had But in terms of getting good instruction from it would have to be that class with Professor a whole lot of levels and had side effects For instance, it was a small class, I want and negotiated to make my case to be in this And the class consisted of two pieces. The first was a lecture, so every week, we'd was, McPhee would get up and he'd sketch out teach us the lessons that he had learned. The other piece was once a week, I want to writing assignments and then you would get And he would come in with, let's just say than your original black ink- ... of his notes. And then you'd sit down and you'd look at explain his notes. I knew it then, but even now I would say I I think draft number four does a pretty good content from that course. I think that there was also, I want to say the art of non-fiction, there's at least one McPhee, which also covered a lot of the feedback ill-defined, it might be, and I'm pulling in class with him, but pea soup. So you might just write in the margin pea of something. Yeah. What does that mean? That it's just unclear. What you're trying to do is unclear. One of the repeat offenders on my side, and was trying to sound fancy or dress up your to someone with the keen eye of a McPhee. He would be like, &quot;What is this word mean?&quot; And then you would not be able to defend it. And he'd be like, &quot;What does this sentence What are you trying to say here? Remove.&quot; And as he excised these things from my writing, in all my other classes that I can remember So it wasn't just writing, it was revising then transferred to a lot of my other classes affected by such a thing like language learning, Why would the literature affect my grades At least immediately even now, it's kind of What do you feel like made him a great teacher? So I think of my favorite teacher in high His name was Miles Chen and he had this way fun and it made me laugh and he would have actually wasn't even about the information And then think of another teacher who more took a lot of concepts around psychology and sterile and he just ignited them, brought What was it about McPhee that was so compelling First and foremost, he is an A-plus practitioner, knows that they are learning from an operator this case, Pulitzer prize, maybe two at that And you had the bona fides, you also had ... there's a good teacher? There's also what makes a good class. Those aren't necessarily the same thing. So I think any teacher is beholden to the So you could take a great teacher and let's participation or interaction and that might So the fact that we had a small class size, very long time, revising it, revising it, It's kind of like a comedian who at a very You see the finished product and you're like, And lo and behold, you meet them in person, funny all the time. There are exceptions, but it's often because it to a fine sheen. So there was the fact that we were not the McPhee. He had had a lot of repetitions. He's also a compelling charismatic teacher humor?. And I haven't thought about this in decades, the class?&quot; I'm like, &quot;This is what I remember,&quot; which point he was talking about quotations in written So said so-and-so, blah, blah, blah. And he's like, &quot;Don't get too cute with it.&quot; He's like, &quot;You don't need to be like, da, He's like, &quot;Don't say ejaculated. You don't need to do that. It's distracting.&quot; And I'm paraphrasing, of course, so he knew For me, it was a good class. I'm not sure ... I actually should say, I a lot of other people in the class, every I mean, I was intimidated by other students They were good writers and a lot of good writers I think David Remnick also was a student of examples. His roster is pretty illustrious. I would say another aspect is his class was occasion, you need someone who's going to And so a lot of the hard work I think that The team matters, right? The team matters a lot. The fact that I was intimidated by the students I didn't want to look foolish. I was able to see good examples and therefore And then the one-on-one is a complete game for instance, with some employees of mine them to be better communicators, clearer communicators, put into a Google Doc. I'll switch the mode to suggesting as opposed do, say, a Zoom screen share or so we do almost and walk through and explain my redlines. It's not enough to just give someone a redline. The rationale behind the redlines is what And in that way, you can over time, email writing surprisingly quickly. And so there have been longstanding results. I actually still have all of my notes from I have not reviewed them in a very, very long and papers also that I wrote from that class No kidding. Yeah. You were talking about with McPhee and the It is funny how later on ... Later on- Later on when you were writing The 4-Hour trying to sound smart and you're like, &quot;Okay, And that's sort of like that. And then the second draft you're like, &quot;Okay, And then that one doesn't work, and I guess Explain it to friends after a few glasses be in for writing.&quot; Yeah, so exactly right. So you've done your homework, write it as it in an email composition box. That's key. In terms of setting the conditions such that Sitting in a Word document felt formal, but in email helped me to build a little bit of an actual Word editor. Whether that's word or generally with most a tool. I think very visually, and it's just an easier tool for me to use for the job of writing I think it was Churchill who said, &quot;First tools shape us.&quot; How does Scrivener as a tool shape your writing? It lessens attachment to a set table of contents. So the way that I set up Scrivener. Scrivener, for those who don't know, I believe screenwriting or playwriting. Oh, really? And what makes it interesting to me, and there for instance on a book right now, which I It's the first book I've worked on in six mostly Scrivener. And the reason for that is that you can, for have a vertical list basically of all of the And for me, I break those into, say, three Those are sections in the book, and then I and if you want to move those around, whether click and drag. Furthermore, below that table of contents, around, I have research below that, so I have So rather than clicking through multiple windows, but I have this left-right, so on the left On on the right-hand side then imagine that visualize than to explain maybe. But you have the right three quarters of the half. On the top is what I'm working on. That's the chapter I'm writing, and then below Oh, interesting. So the amount of flow that I can achieve without without crashing Word or just completely destroying So the text files themselves were very lightweight. You can add footnotes and stuff. I usually don't get too fancy. I have done that for some of my books, but to use Scrivener. How does it shape me? It emboldens me to experiment more with structure Very, very, very, very easy to move stuff I could switch two sections and read it and Don't like it, no problem. Boom. Two seconds later it's reverted. Hey, so when you're talking about research, personal experiments that I've done, observations book and I collected this fact and now it's So it's hard for me to say. I mean, historically and the toolkit is going would use Evernote. Let's just say I have an idea percolating including, say, a lot on accelerated learning I would use the web clipper for Evernote. So if I came across anything that was sent study, an interview that I thought might be into Evernote. I would also take Evernote notes and I use for a very long time. Then, and I'm going to come to your question, since research can be a means of procrastinating It's not always upside. It can be a very fancy way of not doing your To avoid that and to avoid the overwhelm of random web clips and thinking, &quot;Holy shit, I would go through immediately in Evernote that I thought was most important in that This allows me to control F or command F later pieces in each of these notes. So then the review process becomes very fast. I would say that in my, what I would consider work, it's just the best that I can do. It's mostly personal experimentation or interviews If it's, let's just call it, secondhand or issues with that for me. The first is that I think the reader's attention just a speculation, but I think that would The second is I have no competitive advantage. If it's digesting books and pulling anecdotes anybody can do that, and increasingly so anyone Yeah, no kidding. Not to derail this whole conversation with thing through research or honestly just getting in chatGPT or other tools, you will not have My competitive advantage is for at least the to be going out and doing the hair brand experiments them in a personalized way. That's harder to imitate. It's harder for anyone to imitate because to entry. If I want to write compelling writing and differentiated, I would say most of it's going on someone else's experimentation that has One of the things that struck me as I was section towards the end of the book where parameters for an assistant that you work nine, something like that is how important And you basically say, if anyone who's a CEO sort of scratched their head or something, And I then just started looking over and over star that you have used for your brand for deals that you work with for the podcast is really gone for the maximum where a lot of is around brand credibility, respectability. Yeah. For a bunch of reasons. One is I think if you want to be the fullest people will, and this can become a weaselly but being creative on some level. You need good constraints to be creative. You need really strong constraints, and people box, or at least I want a really huge box,&quot; want the smallest box possible so that your better decisions. What that means is I have policies for all are around this scarce resource, which is credibility. This is going to become increasingly scarce I think reputation and credibility is the at least a finite amount of trust that any people, and so they're going to choose the for them. And from a competitive perspective, I really I think being a category of one is much more it's much more defensible and sustainable. Nonetheless, if you have to compete for attention, slip up and you make mistakes and maybe you it had all five stars and now it's three stars Or maybe I gave them the hug of death by sending So I set two million people to this hot sauce production, and the quality dropped.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Ah fuck.&quot; And then people get upset. Understandably, things like this happen, but very slowly about decisions so that I can mean trying to be a expert. It just means if you ask someone, do you trust going to be yes as often as possible, and experience anyway. Now you need to turn that a lot. 80% of the sponsors who come through, including dollars and saying no, that has a cost, very Then there are all these other intangibles But when I look at the ability to do something about it, I don't feel conflicted about it I never second guess those decisions. You're talking about distinctiveness and being How intentionally did you think about cultivating I know that you learned a lot from Kurt Vonnegut, you think about that? So there are ways to develop voice, but I for a lot of folks, and I think it is the or eager to get started. It was top of mind for me. I would say content is king. Worry about the what before you worry about If you look at, for instance, 50 Shades of so many people who have tried to read that quality, but how many copies did that sell? 10 million, 20 million, 30, a hundred million, Hollywood movies. Why? Great premise. It struck a chord in a very off menu way that then an entire world. Started off as fan fiction too. That's all separate thing. Worry about the what first. If your subject matter is like a B minus and make it super compelling, if you're John McPhee, If you're David Foster Wallace, fine. But maybe you shouldn't assume that you're off. And I think in the beginning, the cheat is more interesting, which by the way, doesn't One of the writing assignments we had in McPhee's I may have adapted this from the letter of interviewing invisible people, people who the case might be, and it's your job to make Have you heard the McCullough Look at Your No. Okay. So McCullough had a teacher when he was in teacher plopped a fish on the table and goes, Write about the fish.&quot; So he leaves for 20 minutes and he goes, &quot;Okay, And the students are like, &quot;What are you talking You put a fish on the table, there's nothing He's like, &quot;No, keep looking.&quot; And it goes again and again and again. And the whole point is that by the end of or something about the fish and they can, are always there. You just have to look and look and look. Yeah, it's a great exercise. So another short form exercise, which were want to say, in the literature of fact class, figure. This large statue, which was in a courtyard Write about it. That was it. And I want to emphasize again the conditions, Small class seminar plus one-on-one, you're you realize how much of a Rashomon game this If you haven't seen Rashomon, go watch it. Akira Kurosawa, amazing film, also has inspired people will be able to ... The Last Duel, Also a great movie, but look at the shifting first glance you might think there's very perspectives could you take? You could take the historical, you could take you could talk about everything around the pieces. If they can't get a hold of subject, they paint a picture of the person they can't get There's so many different approaches, but when in doubt, do something more interesting. The what instead of the how. But if we're talking about the how and voice, your weird self as my [inaudible 00:28:02] but not hiding your idiosyncrasies. Leaning into it. Yeah, I have all sorts of jokes in most of They make no sense to anybody, and editors sense. We need to take this out.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;No, you can leave it in.&quot; It's just like an inside joke with me and highly, highly, highly functional in the sense or excitement around what you're writing, difficult. Somebody asked me recently, they were like, than the one proceeding.&quot; And I was like, &quot;Oh, no. My writing I think has just gotten harder But it doesn't get easier and therefore the which can be in the writing, the pre-writing things, or it can be in the writing phase, while you're still honing your craft. So you can take A plus material with B minus really want to pay attention to. Then I think to do the opposite. Tell me about how you have used your newsletter You hadn't been writing a lot and you're like, What have you been doing? If you are connecting with your audience predominantly it might be, you are renting your audience. You do not own a direct means of communication. There might be exceptions where you can export there are a couple of things that are proclaimed Okay, blogs are dead, email's dead, this is All the kids now, they're never going to use I'm like, &quot;Yeah, until they get a job, and They're going to use email.&quot; So I recognize the importance of having that I wanted to do something novel, wanted to I also wanted to try to resurrect my writing, way because the podcast was easier. The podcast was fun. The podcast had my full attention. It was far more lucrative than any writing And yet, I wanted to continue to sharpen the And that was important why? It was important to me, because I think you write regularly. You will get worse. And writing is like an annual checkup or a Nice. So I feel compelled to write, at the very is. And with the newsletter, which has whatever Five Bullet Friday, which is the name of it, 00:31:43] mark at a really low bar. Does that make sense? Five Bullets, that's it. I have no excuse not to write this newsletter, have done a fair amount of writing, will see went to Korea recently, first trip to Seoul, Five Bullet Friday. There's plenty to talk about. And I put together five bullets that became out, these various bullets turned into five So in a sense, it violated the basic parameters but I felt very good about it because it got of time on it. So it was effectively a blog post and it probably than you think you can do is the takeaway. If you want to forge a new behavior, do less The most important thing is building positive If you don't have an exercise habit and your a week and you've, for the last year, have that. Hour of workout, no. 10 minutes of workout, do less than you think Two things I've taken from you is complexity Yeah, yeah, yeah. Who did I get that from? It might've been Po Bronson. I got it from somebody else. I think it was Po Bronson. Two crappy pages a day. Yeah. That tracks in my prep. I think it was two crappy pages per day. I guess this was inspired by the IBM sales Yeah, with the sales quotas. What's the story there? The story there, and I might be getting some that at one point in time, IBM had an incredibly journalist was asking, might've been a writer, And counter-intuitively, one of the answers quotas were quite low. So the compensation, contingent commission-based So you had that incentive, but the quotas intimidated to pick up the phone. There was less of a fear factor, and so they In my case, putting together five links in I could mail that out and some weeks, I do. I'm busy. I know what I want to include, you know what? People can figure it out on their own, still That's all that goes out, but it gets the knocking at the door or I've had too much Then I can sit down and I can write five pages, And I think that returns back to something Now, there are times when I'm very perfectionist Right. That's later. That comes later. It's like, okay, when the car is done, when it around the track, it works, and then you be a perfectionist. But when you are doing the initial ... when the car, that's not the time to do it. Yeah. There's a nice bit from your interview with process, you want to treat yourself like a around, and then later on you're like a sergeant. You are a sergeant, you're super strict, and in the creative process.&quot; Yeah, I feel that way. My inclination is to be the sergeant, so the and then some people are very easygoing, go like the yoga people need to do more weights It's always a matter of trade-offs. If you have any superpowers, you're going So it's not a question of fixing the super can you leverage your strengths while addressing you can continue to play whatever long game What do you feel like you're working on in What is the thing that you would maybe even to address that. I want to get better at that.&quot; Playing with different formats. So I mean, after five successful books, I I know how to do it just like there's certain but it's like their tweets are always formatted They have three parts. If you look at it closely, you can be like, And they never deviate and people love these very unfulfilling. It's like, &quot;Okay, I get it. I can do this and I can take a certain type these various structures that I know work.&quot; But after five [inaudible 00:37:23] and I like to toy around with more unusual ways When you going to give us some fiction? I've actually written quite a bit of fiction with voice actors. Bizarrely, we can get into this if you want, I kid you not. So if people can look that up and they can and I love Sci-Fi. I read a lot of fiction actually. I wanted to actually publish, not just write, on my own and never shared it with anybody. I wanted to actually force myself to publish, and to experiment with world building. This is ongoing. So I ended up writing 13, I want to say, chapters greater houses and mythologies and intertwining this stuff about this fantasy realm. And that was part of experimenting with format, are certain tools and certain tricks and literary also a very different thing. And I wanted to play with a completely different also writing in the sense that generally I'm most interesting bits, and then flushing it I know exactly where things are going, so it's bricklaying. Hold that thought. One of the things that I thought was interesting was you looked at all the books with a four you said, &quot;What's missing?&quot; And then you started there and then you said, of research and then compile that.&quot; And I think that's a good example of how you're the third in a series, and then what you end I could not believe it. The most highlighted books in Kindle history Body, The One-Year Bible, and then The 4-Hour And that density is so core to how you write. It is. So I wanted to try doing something completely meant was since I'm not wedded to research, defend, I was able to set conditions. I was able to say, &quot;All right, here are two Until the chapters done no research. There was a lot of research that went into architecture or certain types of mythology, come back to and fix later and just make shit And that is a very uncomfortable, and I would ultimately make me a better nonfiction writer think you should make shit up if it's nonfiction, People do it, but I feel strongly against But that type of embracing of flow and not in research that you can fill in later is So I was cultivating that in fiction, but And actually it is applying to some nonfiction So I wouldn't view these as totally distinct I view it as cross-training for me, and if right? In the sense that I like to give myself a impasse for whatever reason. And I do that with my writing also, maybe the best pieces of advice that I received I don't know if she's still agent, Jillian And I'll paraphrase it because I don't remember proposal for The 4-Hour Workweek, and she She's like, &quot;I can't take you out as a client, And she gave me some feedback and she recommended standalone, strong, like a long-form magazine And I thought about that for a long time, 4-Hour Workweek that way. What advantage does that have? Well, first advantage is for the reader. The reader can jump around. Even though The 4-Hour Workweek is intended that to most people, but the reader can jump Just as important, but not as explicitly obvious, If everything is contingent on all the pieces a nonlinear way. But if each chapter is effectively a self-sufficient can hop to chapter eight and I can work on demoralized by an impasse. Tell me about this advice that you got from You may need to remind me. If you're going to write a book, write a fucking Write a fucking book. That's so good. It is good. It is good. I am often asked by friends, acquaintances, and/or they will say, &quot;I've got a great idea I'm definitely going to write a book sometime, And there are people who are very serious a book.&quot; They've given it some dedicated thought. They have a plan, they have a premise, et And generally what I will say to people, and this and produce a great book, but there are is if this cannot be your top priority, your for forgiveness with your family or they're You're going to have to compromise your work. Whatever your company is, so to speak, that's If this cannot be your top priority for the There is a glut of mediocrity in the world. No kidding. Please don't contribute to it. Furthermore, there may be a hundred thousand I'm sure is the case, probably much higher For you, Mr. Author, if you put out a book live with that C minus for the rest of your So if you're going to do a book, do a fucking Take it seriously. And very few people will follow that advice. A lot will do a book. It'll be priority number six. It'll have a very short life. It will not do what they hoped it would do, forever because it is attached to their names. And if they went through a traditional publisher have to be reminded of that on a pretty regular And a fair number of friends who are close do a book.&quot; I'm like, &quot;Great. That may be one of the best decisions you've Not everyone needs to write a book at all Writing a book is hard. It should be hard. If it's easy, then either you are a freak those people, but chances are you're not that I couldn't believe how many of the bestsellers I was blown away, man. Yeah, some people are just built for it. And just like there are people who are super I know some of these people, they only need They cannot sleep more than four or five hours them after three or four hours. And that is an advantage that most people One of the things that I love doing with every with the acknowledgement section, and it is book. There's obviously the agent and the publisher, two books, finish with a thank you to your One of the things that I found to be an interesting and asking for what is the 10% that you would And also, I'm going to instantly implement I need a lawyer friend who can look at my redlining and say, &quot;You missed these things.&quot; I don't have that. I think that's a good piece of advice. It works really well. Lawyers are allergic to, unless it's to their ambiguous language, and if something has the need to be super clear and the more extra agreement, the more liability there is frequently. So lawyers, good lawyers can read something and there are exceptional proofreaders. So that's a cheat, right? And they don't need to be a senior partner I mean, chances are if someone is a top student I've never tried this, but I'm sure it would Who has the best attention to detail?&quot; Great, I would bet a sizable amount of money. That person's going to be better than your to look for ambiguous language or unnecessary And then there are the questions, including would you cut if you had to cut, what would And you got to force them to do it because I'd feel like, &quot;I don't know.&quot; But if you're like, &quot;David, I need 20% from And now you've just given me permission to you or anything like that, I'm not going to Yeah. You have total protective air cover from my Similarly, if you could only keep 20%, and one out of every five pages can stay. That's it. Which stay? I'm giving you a chapter that's 20 pages. So there you go. Well, Jason Fried at Basecamp, he has a little Tach. And he goes, &quot;Write a thousand words, cut cut it down to one sentence, and you just and compression, both to find the essence make them distill and narrow.&quot; And one of the things that you find is once begin to find things. It's almost as if there's a phase transition. And an example of that in your work is you of your first book, and then you get into and that's a good example of a transition it is that you're saying, so much more compelling. And then I retired the jersey, the 4-Hour Yeah. I wanted to retire that and then move to Tools Why'd you do that? I think it's easy to end up imitating yourself, So I could have kept milking the four-hour it out or licensed it and done all sorts of that I think we already touched on in terms what you're doing. But I didn't want that to become a crutch that that I could not do something else because in the content of Tools of Titans, which came can't even remember. But I felt very confident that that book was it. I was having a really good time with that I could say that. Really? Oh, yeah, first three books were very difficult, circumstances, environments, and people in my writing, but my existence would be as nourishing Exercise, sauna, the people around, the food. I thought about all of those elements, and researcher who had then brought on full-time book. Even though I am always writing in my own In the sense that if you read something in with social posts that I direct via phone my name on it, I've written it. At the very least, I have gone through it Very rare that that's not the case. And book was a blast to write, so I felt like that gave me all the confidence that I needed. I was already committed to moving on from was possible in the same way that with The expectation was that I would do some extension 3-Hour Workweek, 4-Hour Workweek Extreme, I would end up using the business applications of The 4-Hour Workweek and beat that drum I knew that was a dead end and there would through the success of the first book to kind And I was like, &quot;Okay, I may not get this I can always go back to The 4-Hour Workweek. I don't think that's going anywhere. So let me do something in an entirely different If that works and my audience follows me, about any subject matter,&quot; right? A la Gladwell or Michael Lewis, right? Or John McPhee. John McPhee, especially John McPhee, entire entire book on one tennis match. The guy really has an incredible spectrum So I tested it and it worked. Doesn't always work. I tried Amazon Publishing with 4-Hour Chef, levels because it was boycotted by all the but Target and Costco. None of these people carried that book. Is that right? Oh, yeah. Yeah. According to Nielsen book scan, I sold 120,000 And I ended up number four on the New York copies because it didn't come from the right Amazon because it wasn't available in other So that was a wake-up call. Burned me out. In a sense the silver lining, which is a major to break from the writing, but to come back go back to the four-hour thing. I felt very confident in that, so I was like, Because if it works, I've now bought/provided canvas.&quot; It worked great. As you think about learning from experts and style show that you have ... how does that going to do in the future? And a nice place to begin might be what you've Yeah, Cal's great. So for people who don't know the name Cal I believe it was called, in Esquire for a So he interviewed Muhammad Ali, interviewed you can imagine, I'm sure De Niro and all And it was quite a time, quite a span of time. Cal, from an interview standpoint, has taught I'd say the principle takeaway that I have So sometimes what you don't say in the space clever follow-up you could possibly bring And the tendency of a novice or a seasoned And I did that in the beginning, and there's But it is one tool. Silence goes a long way because the interviewee eventually they'll break and they'll say something not always. So that was part of it. I would say that interviewing is for me very sequencing a lot, what is the right order interrogate this subject matter, this person, So how do you grab the attention in the beginning, at this in the 4-Hour Body in [inaudible 00:57:38], I'm starting in the action almost always. There's not a preamble. I'm not starting with dry facts and figures. It's like I'm at Shoreline Amphitheater and my hands into the bowl of chocolate coverage at me in a slack jawed in disgust. That's the opener. I mean, that's paraphrase, but that's the Body. To pull people in, you also have to do that If you are, just as you would be, if you're not have a ... in most cases, unless you're There are very few authors I will wait a hundred There are some, like John Crowley who wrote His stuff takes a long time to warm up. There's a lot of foreplay involved. It's like Tarantino with Hateful Eight. Yeah. And it can be very slow. But generally I would say that it's asking much of your listener. You need to provide something juicy that they So the sequencing is very interesting to me, about sequencing when I am preparing for an I would say that fundamentally thinking and So if you are trying to identify a possible a statement, but I think it's more interesting to answer? What are the questions for your books? I would say that for The 4-Hour Body, for effective dose for the 10 most important dimensions That's it. And for The 4-Hour Chef, it would be like, ground zero to super accelerated learner with That's basically it. Can I develop a curriculum that would take to go from average learner to hyper accelerated And you can apply those questions to your You can apply those questions to your chapter. If you are stuck on a chapter, which happens The 4-Hour Workweek, hire someone to interview And I beat myself up and suffered through chapter, and I danced around it. I went to other chapters, but you can only Eventually you have to do it. And I really got to a point where I thought I was like, &quot;This might be the end. I can't seem to solve this riddle.&quot; And I spoke to, I want to say it was Jack the book. He's the co-creator of Chicken Soup for the And I believe he introduced me to a woman me on this chapter. And I kid you not within 60 minutes, I thought really carefully to the interview. By the end of 60 minutes, I was like, &quot;Oh Forcing me to speak it out loud and if something it was unclear and asking good follow-up questions probably the first or second chapter in the compared to the other chapters. So there was a question of how to make something boring, interesting enough that people will because those are important principles. You can't just remove the automation section So that was one of the bigger challenges and Yep. It's not just that you can clarify existing One of the things that I find with a good and they're these walls and a good question it'll fall and all of a sudden I'll just jump then gives me this flow and this momentum thing is bending constraints. And I think that this is what a lot of your goal that I have for 10 years and six months? What would it look like if it was easy? I just had this moment of epiphany listening I'm like, &quot;Oh my goodness. So many of the questions that I ask myself come up with.&quot; And the defining thread of those questions some constraint that's like a 10 and you're that we've bent the shape of reality, now now?&quot; And it's not like you have to do this, but Totally agree. Yeah. In a sense, the more outrageous the question, It's because if it's an off-the-shelf question, that would be operating within whatever assumptions And if you were going to solve that problem, So it's not just more thinking, it's looking or oftentimes completely looking away from And so for instance, maybe instead of how paid acquisition. Maybe the question is, if you had to run your would you put 50K? Where would you put that salary that you were Where would you allocate that money? That's a more interesting question. Even if you end up not pursuing the outcome about this director of paid acquisition you Right. So I do that a lot with my business. I'm thinking about it a lot right now, frankly, a professional standpoint, because I think than it is already within the next few years. They're like, &quot;Okay, started in blue ocean. It's turning into a red ocean. There's still plenty of space for excellence, and it's going to get a lot tougher.&quot; And AI tools are going to make it incredibly are mimicking the format and the, let's just that are being produced by almost everyone Okay. So what if I couldn't do the podcast? What would I do? What if I could never do any video? Could I make that work? Could I make that financially viable? Could I make it a behind the paywall only I'm not planning on that. But these questions that you might shy away no, it's probably good to take that thing and say, &quot;All right, what if I had to do the In what way does your level of fame make creative it harder? I would say it hypothetically makes it easier. I'll explain why I have that flourish on my Hypothetically makes it easier because I have So if the rate limiter is access to amazing pretty easily. I would say that is offset, hence the hypothetical, unless you have a large public platform. And what you have put out that has created long form. So the people who are reaching out to you, do know you pretty well, and the dynamics can get reasonably complicated. On some level it's very simple. The more inbound you have, the more you are Occasionally I see amazing opportunities that and I have employees who help with inbox and But if I am suddenly responding to things with no distractions and deciding what my this reactive business existence makes it for me and I own it because all these things block out extended periods of time for deep I can change that. I can pull a few levers and move a few things the inbound. Great word choice. Yeah. It's not necessarily a fear of missing out, It's like a slot machine. Or if you want to train a dog really well, Every once in a while, you give a jackpot, instead of one and they turn into crack heads. I mean, they're basically gambling addicts, and actually being very effective with dog But I think you mentioned earlier, first we Being shaped by inbound and becoming reactive, creativity and writing. And I say fully expressed because if your by the requests and projections of other people, what is yourself, what your goals are versus So I think that's a challenge. I would say that overall it has made it harder There are people out there who have the exact They're like, &quot;I've reached escape velocity, Great.&quot; And then they can buckle down and go into time writing. I have friends who do that, so they've made I think my blessing and my curse without the my many experiments and paid acquisition and The 4-Hour Workweek would have gone parabolic So having the operator ability was critical and we tend to like the things we're good shiny business things that come in over the who send me things that are very interesting, So I take the bait more than I should. Is there a creative project that you feel thinking about or something that you almost but it will excavate a depth of who Tim Ferriss Yeah, I do. Really? Actually, I can tell you a bit. I'll tell you by way of a story because why Stories are fun and it's the easiest way for I remember having dinner, this is many years Was it a dinner? It was a dinner with Michael Pollan and a the people at the dinner galleys of what would Oh, cool. Which is about the history of psychedelics How to Change Your Mind, that book ended up interest in psychedelics. Michael has been incredibly instrumental in with a lot of things that have happened in with respect to psychedelic therapies. I have a lot of respect for Michael. He's very good at what he does, and he takes When I first read that book in galley form, on all of my experiences related to psychedelics of notebooks to a level of detail that I haven't the higher concept stuff, but frontline practices, at the frontier, at the edges. And the edges could be very modern, the edges like at the edges, what are the most interesting personal experiences been? So at that point, I had hundreds of pages book, which is outstanding. I mean, I have an entire shelf full of this I can just give them a copy. It's a very powerful book, very user-friendly. I think he does a brilliant job of weaving pull in people from many different worlds prejudices. We all have biases. And when I saw the galley, I thought to myself, That saves me so much trouble that Michael Because a lot of my motivation behind potentially catalyze new conversations, policy change, compounds out of schedule one, et cetera, And I knew as soon as I read Michael's book was like, &quot;This book's going to do it.&quot; He's already done it before like The Omnivore's I've seen him do this before. The book is great. And I was like, &quot;Thank God. Books are so hard. That just saved me so many years of grinding.&quot; But I still think about it because it's a become very much a mainstream conversation, since 2015 or so officially, let's just say about mental health, a story about healing very, very specific tactics and protocols So we'll see. It would be a tremendous amount of work if There are alternatives. I could have somebody interview me, I could the type of thing. It's so close to me, it's so personal. I really don't think I would be comfortable That may mean it just doesn't get written. But that's the one that I do think about. Because I've got it. I've got the notes and it's ongoing. I'm still gathering things and experimenting of psychedelics. The interest is in unorthodox, high leverage and that includes quite a bit. And that book would also talk about some very, raise a lot of questions about what this human in our knowledge may be. So I do think that book, it would be very myself to think about the amount of time that Now that's where I'm making assumptions that What would this look like if it were easy? Okay, is it better for me to not publish this? I want to write it myself, or is it better I think it should be? Maybe the latter, maybe. Maybe I'll get there, but for the time being, Yeah. Well, to weave some of these ideas that we've also a way that teaming up with somebody on and I'll make the argument for why. As I was hearing you say that, if I was writing and personal that sometimes it's just hard when you're writing those and how vulnerable with a co-writer who could pull that out of I agree. I agree. I think it would definitely be easier. Definitely be easier. We'll see. TBD. I have another thing to write first. Can you share about that? Well, it's actually, I can't share specifics, I am working on a writing project for the Nice. Not a ghostwriter, not somebody who is going I'm not going to claim to write a book I didn't That shit drives me bananas. If you want to call yourself a best-selling write your book, please don't call yourself Please. Anyway, pet peeve. I mean, you just think about where that would else. It's just so bizarre. It's like if someone's manager, they're like, actor.&quot; I'm like, &quot;No, I know you're kind of involved, writing world, that is perfectly acceptable. It's very odd. In any case, it's okay. There's some great ghostwriters. I'm not faulting ghostwriters, by the way. It's the other side that I sometimes find So I'm working with a collaborator who would experiment for me, and I'm holding it lightly, not working to just dropping it. But I have always had people helping. You mentioned the acknowledgement. There are always a lot of people who go into writing, it's always been me and my books They're big. I lift weights with your books. Yeah, they're huge books. I do Tribe of Mentors and 4-Hour Body. You can just superset with the different books. Exactly. My books tend to be very long, and if this that opens up a whole new universe of things things down. The quality level has to be incredibly high, embrace. Of course. Right. Volume, I don't care about volume. I just do not care because there's no competitive You are going to lose to the robots, you're If you think you're going to win on a volume At the very least, if you're doing it manually, So for me, at least, the quality, by my standards, that I can make it high. And I recognize I'm not Leo Tolstoy, right? I'm not saying that my books are amazing works I'm not saying that, but to the extent that I want to ensure that which also saves me question I posed to my friends, can you make If not, my suggestion is you don't do it. So TBD, we'll see. We shall see. But very excited about that and should have distant future, but if things work out, the So people might hear more about it. That's my first write project in six years. I'm long form, really long form. It's not going to be going to be scratching I think it's going to be another tone. It will not be as long as my previous books, that, so we shall see. But it'll be highly, highly tactical. There's not anything, and maybe it's going this book, you can use something kind of book, Last question. It's a very Tim Ferris question. If you could have a billboard for writers what do you tell the city of aspiring writers? The first is do something interesting first. Even if you're writing fiction, by the way, Don't make it harder than it needs to be. Do something interesting first. Or if people are like, &quot;Ah, so intimidating.&quot; Do something fucking weird first. Great. Because you're probably going to choose something in, which your friends would claim makes you That's perfect. All right, so that's the first that came to The second that came to mind would be a category Figure out what that is. Figure out what that is. There's still plenty left. They're just invisible until you sit down Kind of like my looking at those, say, four-star constructive reviews on Amazon. If you know where to look or what questions Oftentimes the gaps are really simple. What book are you trying to find that you Okay. Maybe that's your category of one. Maybe let's say do less than you think you Yes. Why that? If you're writing to become famous, stop. Do something else. If you're writing to make money, generally Do something else. If you're writing because it does something Maybe you have these things gnawing at you, bouncing around your head that you need to Maybe it's because you love writing. I know many friends who just love writing. Great. Maybe there's another reason. But if the reason leads you to want to write day is a great way to make that impossible. I have more than most tried to really over burnout. That is a recipe for beginning to drag your you really used to look forward to. So whether that's two crappy pages a day or that I did with him ... There are many writers slightly different approaches. But you mentioned some of the anecdotes from I mean, you see that one of the patterns is a lot of these people are more like chaperones a drill sergeant in the military. This is very fragile in the beginning. I believe it was Jerry who said, &quot;For 24 hours you've written. Bask in the glory or having done one of the I think that positive reinforcement is very the positive reinforcement is possible, you feeling. It's much better to do two crappy pages five day, but then you went to bed at four in the two days, and then you freak out because you So then you churn out some garbage or rush you have toss that, and then you're building That's not a good existence, and I've done I've lived that for years at a time. So if you haven't, take my word for it. It doesn't produce good writing, and there a bottle and those two pages turn into four But it's tempting, I think, to try to model I've read interviews and there are people put out 1,500 great words.&quot; And I'm like, &quot;1,500 great words?Really?&quot; Okay. If I set that bar, I'd want to throw myself Maybe that makes me weak. Maybe that makes me an under performer. I don't know. But I know that I cannot do that. And there are other people that are like, day and I don't move. If I have to stare at a blank screen for eight Same result. Tim face first out a window. Can't do it. And then you have alternatives. I've interviewed a lot of them, like BJ Novak, in the morning. It's like if you need to have a cappuccino to the barista and do this and that to get The common thread though, that makes these just consistency. And I know that a lot of people deliver this back to the billboard, which is stop before put it. Stop before you're exhausted. Beautiful answer. Thanks, man. I've been a fan for a long time and you had I remember in 2016 going to your event at thanks to you that ideas became so captivating I didn't have that until I started listening and I was just thinking of how many interviews years, and thank you. Oh, thanks, man. Really appreciate that. Yeah. This is a tight ship you got here, so nice Thanks, man. Keep it up. Yeah, thanks for having me on. Yeah.