This is not the Lock Picking Lawyer and today here. As you would expect the door is normally locked to the access control unit we can hear and This all sounds fine but I was wondering how since such 125kHZ RFID tags are not that secure. Now the real Lock Picking Lawyer did a similar the RFID tags authentication data between But I however can not do that because the and I honestly feel like messing with the do it. Instead I was wondering whether I could read so that I can create a replica without the So in this video I will try to do just that whether you can trust such an RFID security Let's get started! This video is sponsored by Morning brew which Monday to Sunday. Now before subscribing to Morning Brew I normally feed which let's face it is not that informative. But after subscribing I received daily informative business and finance like for example that It is a perfect mix between wit and informative using your smartphone I do it quite often. So go ahead and give it a try by clicking And remember, it's 100% free. First off before getting to the whole RFID about RFID itself and my door locking system. So let's rewind time back to the moment when for less than $10 at which point I thought To find that out I obviously had to buy it manual I found out that I also needed a power After choosing suitable options on Amazon, in order to find a general consensus between So initially I thought a wiring diagram like unit and the lock would get powered by 12V. And at first sight this setup did seem to Using the given programming operations from that unlocks the whole system. But as you can see after trying just that power supply luckily survived by shutting You see the the problem was that the "Electric have to hook up the 4 wires of the lock like But in reality you only have to connect the this final wiring diagram. This way you do not create a short circuit system was basically done. Of course I also had to come up with a small system but I do not want to bore you with with woodworking. So instead let's move on to the moment in panel. In case you do not know RFID stands for Radio is the right term here because if we observe reader with the help of a coil we can see a frequency of around 125KHz which is the This field is of course created by the RFID flow through a coil which we can actually panel. Now the RFID tag obviously gets penetrated best explained by looking at this clear one IC. So what happens is that a voltage gets induced which now powers the IC. The ICs only job is now to short its own coil bits saved in its memory which by the way system. So by doing that the transmitters coil voltage When the amplitude is lower it means that is higher it means the coil is not shorted an easily recognizable data stream which hopefully control unit unlock the door. And with the theory out of the way I started circuits that could help with my lock picking What I found were of course some Arduino RFID this rather interesting Multi frequency RFID buy for my lock picking. Like the product name implies it can easily since it is not encrypted and copy it to another also works with my door system. But of course that is not the end of the story to be super close to the RFID reader which because this is more like stealing a key and No what I want is to read the RFID tag from I initially though that I have to increase of the reader. But after opening it up I noticed that its do not want to mess with it because there do not want to loose my only way of writing Instead I rather switched to this RDM6300 cheaper from the internet. Since the board can easily communicate with RFID data and then typing it into the writer But the big advantage of this board is that create this schematic, I realized that it as the data transformation all discretely This is great because this way I can more circuit which I did right after I determined tags up to a distance of around 4 to 5cm. With that out of the way I started my modifications my own voltage to power the coil. And while increasing the voltage did beef as well as the electromagnetic field that decrease the RFID tag reading distance. I think the problem is that the the feedback with a higher voltage aka electromagnetic we should not strive for super awesome amplification the distance. And since I have 4 wireless power videos under check out I had some idea what I was doing my patent pending world famous coil making Now as a reference I hooked up the old coil and inductance. And the first DIY coil I then tried out came performed let's say pretty horrible. And In case you are wondering why I am adding the circuit is creating a resonance circuit of my new coils changes around I also had 125kHz frequency. But anyway my second DIY coil actually came did also performed quite a bit better with So for the next test I reduced the numbers its resistance and inductance but increase This time the reading distance went up to a 12cm coil in combination with such an off Now I of course also tried out other types say that the small reader circuit with its is not up to the task. So sadly I didn't get to complete a practical but I certainly had a suitable theory in mind But through the experiments I am now at least RFID readers and if you don't believe that such readers available on Amazon that work So in conclusion everyone can theoretically to the person who carries the tag so I would system. RFID is not always this bad though because involved so better have a look at that when With that being said I hope you enjoyed the If so consider supporting me on Patreon and and hit the notification bell. Stay creative and I will see you next time.