- Well, it finally happened. The thing every parent fears the most. My son needs a Chromebook for school. So if we're doing this, I guess it's up to me to find the best dang But wait. (plastic squeaking) This is gonna be a lot Why can't they just be good? Like our sponsor. CableMod makes cables to last, and their new keyboard cables are the easiest way to spice up your desk. With a ton of colors you can complete your keyboard setup today using the link down below. (upbeat music) If you or a loved one isn't I wouldn't you expect you to be aware of just how dominant Chromebooks In 2019 there were 30 million Chromebooks deployed in schools, primarily And in January 2020 Google announced that that to a whopping 40 million Chromebooks in classrooms around the globe, and that is before the COVID techsplosion. And now my son is gonna of Chromebook users But then, maybe that's not so bad. Like many of you, I've been as glorified web browsing Well, that's what Google But in the past few years, they have become far more capable with Google adding the ability introducing the Linux beta on all new devices released since 2020 for you developer types out there, and even allowing enterprise users to run Windows through Parallels. Wait. &quot;Allowing&quot;? Okay, yeah. The whole point of the is that the kids' machines and the two main selling are how easy it is to deploy that keeps the kids from and how lightweight it is, which indirectly makes I mean, look at this thing. $190! That's... I mean, new Windows laptops with MSRPs under $200 do exist, but the ones that we've seen come from less-than-reputable and I don't think that reputation I mean, even the options around the $250 mark make no sense 'cause they're basically just Chromebooks that have been saddled of a much heavier operating system. So it's really in this low price tier that Chromebooks shine as capable and cost-effective machines. But what kinda sacrifices are being made to achieve these crazy low price points? Let's go shopping! Disclosure: I'm an investor in They don't make Chromebooks, All right, let's see what we got here. Too big for a little kid. Opposite problem. This one doesn't have any ports. All plastic. These suck! Well, this is a good price. Wow, is that screen ever tiny. Not to mention those bezels. Is this YouTube video running That's just embarrassing. Ooh! Look at this tiny thing! That's cute. Oh, it's a tablet with a (alarm wailing) Boy, is this keyboard Though for a child, maybe. Touchscreen is nice to Maybe some drawing. It Oh, okay. It's got eMMC storage. That's when the essentially embed an SD card into the motherboard and then use that as your system storage. It's really not very and this is only 32 gigs. But it'll be more responsive and with tight integration I might need that much local storage. And since we're not doing it doesn't need to be that fast, but... Ooh, the Best Buy demo doesn't even fit on the screen properly. I don't think this thing's gonna cut it. Maybe we should look online Oh, Samsung has a Chromebook. Look at that. Fiesta Red. Built-in S Pen. Nice. A 4K screen. Okay, the screen size. Kinda overkill. Could hurt battery life. A Core i5! I don't think we've seen anything Feels a little overkill too. 8 gigs of RAM is nice. But while we love to joke I mean, you don't have a bunch of your resources. And there's probably a only have 4 gigs. 256 gigs of real SSD storage? $1,000! If I wanted to spend MacBook See ya later, Samsung. Okay, how about this one? Lenovo Flex 5. Got a Core i3. That should be adequate and taking notes without being overkill. USB-A for connecting devices at school. It's a two-in-one. That added flexibility Screen looks pretty good too. This is checking a lot of boxes right now. And it's in stock. Of course, we can't that tickles our fancy. This one says up to 12 And knowing that he's my son, he'll probably forget his charger, so a long-lasting battery is good. Then again, these all claim I guess that's another benefit of running low-end hardware But this display seems pretty You know, we recommend in the past for gamers due to their super fast response times, but the colors look bad and the It's not something you want and especially not in 2022 when IPS panels have become so affordable. Okay, back to the Lenovo. Seems durable. Not too big, not too small. The keyboard didn't wow me, And the speakers are... Well, they're speakers. But at 370 U.S. dollars, I Let's buy it. But wait, Shopper Linus. You aren't ready to make a decision yet. You forget to get hydrated. LTTStore.com. And you forgot another big Did you know that the support window of your Chrome OS device is determined by when it was released? I mean, that makes sense. Newer item is gonna have But there is a big gotcha in there because devices made in 2018 are gonna get automatic That's a period of four years. Meanwhile, a device released in 2020 is gonna be supported until 2028! This is because in 2020, Google promised that all new Chromebooks would receive eight years but they didn't bother to to devices that were already released, even if they were only a few months old. So look closely and double-check on Google's Chromebook support site, which we're gonna have linked down below. It's really easy to make a mistake here. Like, look at this Acer Chromebook 14. It doesn't look all that different from this Acer Chromebook 514, but that first device is for seven more months while the 514 will be My Flex 5 here is meaning that my son will be enjoying this mediocre computing experience until he is well into high school. Or will he? Darn it! This is Linus Tech Tips. We don't take kindly to computers merely doing what they Which is why we're going to and see what this Chromebook can do from a gaming standpoint. They are actually quite We could use a game streaming service like GeForce Now or Google Stadia, and if triple-A games are your priority, then this is gonna be And it's actually a though I would strongly for a more stable connection. If you're after lighter games... Man, Android has a lot Everything from SNES and to indie hits like &quot;Stardew Valley.&quot; That's honestly all that or even want, but we can go deeper. Chrome OS, like Android, and some very clever people for us to install Linux on It lets us put our own a self-contained directory that is separate from but this is essentially an exploit. Whoa! What are you doin'? Didn't you know Google has added their own implementation through a project called Crostini? Trust me, it is way simpler to The catch is that you need a Chromebook from 2020 or later to use it. So if you have a newer Chromebook, we've linked a simple But note that due to the implementation, Crostini runs Debian in a VM, the performance will take a hit. So if you want to be running then keep following along because Crouton is your best option for now. That requires to activate which will not only wipe but it also makes your device And if the unit was loaned to you by your school or workplace, this will for sure get you in trouble. Not to mention that there that you can pause and read here. Now, I'ma just fast forward us following the instructions We're gonna have that As you can see then, in Crouton, while we do have access with this low tier of hardware it is not a super smooth experience. Like &quot;Rocket League,&quot; for example. It's a relatively lightweight game, but it's modern and And as you can see from it's not gonna go very well. The game's barely runnable. So let's lower our expectations Hitches, but it's not half bad. How about &quot;Broforce?&quot; This is a 2D game. It's an action side-scroller especially when playing with friends. And honestly, it's a which means that while Linux I'm hopeful that as that this is gonna be a viable way to unlock an even At least those that are But there's evidence showing that Valve is working with Google on a Chrome OS-native version of Steam that would allow games to run with no workarounds or VMs required. The project is under and some users recently spotted flags for it in Chrome's settings, meaning we could potentially see an optimized gaming platform for Chrome OS later on this year. Stay tuned. But for now I'll have unoptimized software on in the Lenovo Chromebook Flex 5. By &quot;I,&quot; I mean my son. Which raises a key question: &quot;Linus, surely you could've afforded a premium Chromebook Why did you cheap out then I'm really glad you asked, and it's because an expensive Chromebook is still a Chromebook, and the way that I see it, no matter how much money if you're spending more than about 500 U.S. dollars on a laptop, you're gonna be getting hardware that's not gonna be dragged So you might as well have something that can run Windows natively without a whole bunch of hackery and hassle in order to get running because Windows is still in terms of what you can do. What you can also do is hear about our sponsor! Today's video is brought It's a new year, so what better time to get your finances organized? And Wealthfront can help. If you're someone who or to continue to Wealthfront makes it You can set up your account, then just let Wealthfront or if you want more flexibility, you can build your own portfolio through Wealthfront as well. They offer a range of investment accounts for everything from general and you can choose to put like communication or tech, so you can craft a portfolio Let's take a look at a product demo that Wealthfront put together what their clients are experiencing. Wealthfront's software so that they can rebalance to make sure your level of risk stays right where you want it. And Wealthfront looks for tax on a daily basis, which can help lower So whatever your investment goals are, Wealthfront's got your back. So check them out at the link below and get a special signup bonus. If you guys enjoyed this &quot;Running Windows on a Chromebook.&quot; It's a pretty fun adventure.