(hooves clopping) - Heard a lot of rumors All of 'em bad. - Well, most are probably true. - I sure hope not, for your sake. (man grunting) - Don't do this, Fred. - I wanna make it sting next time. - Okay, all right. - You got him. - No. - It's on you, Fred. (Jimmy grunting) Think you proved your point, Fred. - Yeah, I think he's got it. - I told him to fuckin' stay down. (Jimmy grunting) - Fred, fuck. (Jimmy groaning) (Fred grunting) What's the rule about fighting, Fred? You wanna fight somebody, I'll fight you all goddamn day! - [Jimmy] I'm the one that started it! It wasn't him, it was me! (Fred coughs) (Jimmy panting) - You see this? You know what this means? This means don't fucking touch, Fred. Don't fucking touch. Now you guys can go get the Get outta here. Get outta here. - I didn't start it, he said it. (whip cracks) (both grunting) - If you ever hit a branded man again, I will kill you, Fred. I'll kill you, Fred. (Fred grunts) (Rip panting) These guys, they just work here, Jimmy. You'll see 1,000 of 'em We die here. This is your family. We're your family. All right? Jimmy's no longer That's your job. - No, no I ain't cleaning - Lloyd? Give this man his week's wages, and get this piece of shit off the ranch. - Get to the fuckin' bunkhouse. - They come and go, Jimmy, but not us. - I gotta wash up. - Mm-mm, no, no. You go have your supper, and you make them look at you. Now go on. (suspenseful music) (doors rattling) - Put the stick down, son. - You want it? Come fuckin' get it! - Let me see your flashlight. Put the stick down, son. (stick clatters) You're in a fair bit of trouble. - No fucking shit. - Get these drifters - You sure roughed him up pretty good. - He was like that when I found him. - Let me see your hands. Those don't look like drifter hands. That looks infected. - Well, it sure feels infected. - There's a pig farm down near Miles City. Ex-husband showed up and beat before somebody cracked his They still haven't found the oldest boy. You know anything about that? - All I know is this. I should've killed that - What's your name, son? - Rip. - Rip? You hungry, Rip? (cows mooing) Can you ride a horse? - I can get from A to B. - Can you rope? - I can rope. - Put the sandwich down, son. If you're gonna work for me, everything you've ever been I won't have it on my ranch. No fighting. And if you steal from- I ain't never started a fight in my life. - You're gonna have to prove You gotta pay a price if - I ain't got no money. - Don't cost money, just a little pain. - Well, sir, pain I'm used to. May I finish my sandwich? (people laughing) - Ready to burn that one, too? - All right. - This man. - Comin' in hot. - Comin' in firing. - All right, I got queens. Looks like I was the hot one. - Hey. - Where are you? - You know where I am. - How am I supposed to get there? - The old Irish way. You're still Irish, aren't you? - I'm Irish enough, honey. (insects chirping) (gentle guitar music) Honey I am coming home now It's where I wanna be Gone too long I'm not thinking Much about me now Ever again - Thought you were off of this. - I'm off it being a crutch. But I'll sip whiskey and stare - Oh, thank you. - I want you to take me on a date. - A date, huh? - A date. With dinner. Maybe we can go to that - Beth, I'm way too tired to analyze exactly what it is that you want, but I know it ain't a date. - It's no test. - No? Just a date. Lord knows you can afford it. Been wearing the same three for a fuckin' decade. (Rip chuckles) - Yeah. - Probably got more money than me. - No, money's the one thing I don't have. - You get paid every week, don't you? - Mm-hmm, yeah. - So what do you spend your money on? You're keeping a sweet for Saturday nights? - Jesus Christ, why is it at the first thing that - What's wrong with that? If I was a man, I'd buy and I'd fill it with buxom little bunnies. I'd start on the first floor Friday, and end up on the roof by Sunday. (Rip chuckles) I'm serious. What do you spend your money on? - Beth, it's a nice night. Let's not ruin it with the truth. - Tell me. - I spent $22,000 on my mom's headstone. It stands about as tall as me. Marble. I got the guy to etch her face into it. I spent 30 on my little brother's. It stands a little bit taller. I don't know, guess I wanted him to be a little closer to heaven. But the best money that I ever spent was 5,000 to a gravedigger in Forsyth. - What did you pay him for? - He dug up my father, and gave me his bones. And I drove from there, all throwin' 'em out the fuckin' window. - I remember the stories of Lies, a lot of it. I think heaven's right here, so's hell. One person can be walking the clouds right next to someone and God is the land. (gentle guitar music) Don't say it. It doesn't mean anything on a roof, under stars like a bunch Hey, tell me, tell me when it saves me. - Okay. I won't say it. (tender music) Every song - Scared? That why he runs? - No, it's instinct more And with these wild horses, who the boss is, you know? Who they can trust. I mean, a tourist will look at a mustang that's running around, let's just say, and think that they're playing. But they're not playing, Tate. They're seeing where they and who's their friend. Here, get up a second. Let me zip you up. It's kinda getting cold out here. There you go, better? He sure is good-looking, isn't he? - [Tate] Yeah. - You wanna ride him today? Make your dad get pissed off? (Rip chuckles) - Turns out, he's just a big teddy bear. Who knew? - Tell you what. I'm gonna work with you on this horse, we're gonna sort it out. We'll make him the best (birds chirping) All right, it's your turn now. Come on, boy, come on. Easy now. Here. Feel kinda silly, feeding animals today. Should be helping. - No matter what we're going through, they still gotta eat. - What's going on, Beth? - Walk with me. - You know we - Just, all right. - What are we doing? (papers rustling) - I'm gonna read to you. - Okay. - My great grandfather had a dream. All of his sons on the working toward the same goal. That dream survived 100 years, until me. With me, it died. I didn't have enough sons. They just kept dying, or quitting. (Beth sighs) Then one day, not too long ago, I realized that I have - I don't understand, Beth. - He's saying it's yours. - Mine? - Yours. (door creaks) (Rip sniffling) Well, there's no accounting for taste, but I guess it's the thought that counts. (Rip sighs) - Will you read the, the - They just kept dying, or quitting. Then one day, not too long ago, I realized that I have (Rip crying) - He called me his son. - Yeah, baby. He sure did. (Rip sighs) (somber music) (door creaks) - You have no future, And if you don't find a you're not gonna have this either. And then your life is, well And you know how that ended. There's two roads in life. One is you're winning, or learning. And the other is that you're losing all the way to the fucking grave. Boy, you better choose quickly, or life's gonna choose it for you.