- In a sport where champions one fighter stands apart, a legend known as the only to get it stolen. The type of guy to wear to wait for a canceled event, to knock on your door to shadow box and win by submission, to kick metal pipes to heal a leg injury, the type of guy to win our Those who've witnessed his but those who speak of his The Boogeyman. Strike light lighten it Built like Leviathan Legends never die I'm living with no hyphenate It's a nut rising, Levels to the game, I'm - That mother back there is not real And you can. - Hold on brother, I'm talking. - But even the boogeyman has a nemesis. Khabib Armageddon. One of the greatest fighters of all time. And in many ways the polar The destiny of the two men yet, one would rise a super stardom and the other go through one of the most cruel downfall in the - This kid's a bully. - He's never been in a street fight, never actually been thrown into a trashcan or like any kind of **** like that. - Who are you? You never fight in. You American guy. In American you cannot fight in street. - There we go. - I am from real mountain. I can eat you in street fight. - Here we go, fake. - Where are you from? Where are you from? Where are you from? - I'm from Oxnard . - Not much is known about - [Tony Ferguson] My dad - But shortly after he was born, his mother married a Scottish - I took my stepdads last name and he was there since I was little. And I ended up moving to Michigan. My stepdad, he moved me out there. You know, I grew up on 40 acres. - That's crazy, yo. - I gotta trained in the military. So it was a little bit different man. And that's why I had to cut cords of wood. A quarter of wood is like a stack of wood. And so we had to do that. And then we had to stack - The hard labor that his would plant the seeds training methods that Tony - So you got the - So he did it on purpose. I'm gonna raise you this way so that way you know exactly what And I've always been a and I've always had the and that just makes it - But outside of his family, Tony found himself isolated from others. - Coming from like seeing a you know, being like a I got picked on a lot and unfortunately I was known as the little It's kind of like you had to find your way in order to go overcome that. Mine was sports. - And one sport in particular, showed him a path toward greatness. - For me being little, I You know, like Fernando and you had like Trinidad these different boxers that were there and I was just like, man, I want They just had like a Just a personality that So if I didn't have that I would've never been able to get there. But I had people create I'm bought a speed bag when So I was always watching in his speed bag, you know, 15. I won nationals in college for wrestling. I won state in high school, We were 27 and one. I love competition, the - But Tony ends up dropping out of college and starts working as a bartender. He slowly starts drifting he had set for himself. - When I weighed about 205 pounds. - See, I can't believe that. - I was about 205 pounds, wasting money on stupid ****. - Stupid stuff. - And it just wasn't me anymore. So I was like, you know, I'm gonna go back to California where my family's at. And I go into this bar with my cousin. I was looking for a bartending job. I go in there and he is like, &quot;no, we don't have any He's like, &quot;you want You look like you know you can handle your business with your ears.&quot; And I said, nah, I'm not interested. - The man wouldn't give him a job, but he did change his life forever. - He hands me a West Coast Jiu Jitsu card. I looked at the card and I was like, you know what, I'm gonna go. Walked right in, had holes in Looked like I was off fresh off the boat. And this guy comes over, his name is Ruffulio, he's I was like, I don't have any, I was using the ones in lost and found. And he goes, turns around and comes back. And he had a brand new pair And mind you, I had like Using my grandma's car and And it was the coolest thing did to give me the tools that And it was the only Anytime anybody gave me I never let it go to waste. And it was like the golden that my reality is I am an athlete, I am a professional and I went back home, told my parents, because they were the only I was like, you know what? All these other jobs, I said, I'm an athlete, - Tony called himself before he actually was. - [Young Boxer] I'm - Not trying, say you will be. - I will. - That's right, we'll see you there. - Made that decision, and You know, I'm barely making rent, barely paying the phone bill. But from that moment on, it I was an amateur fighter dude. I was working at coffee bean, lifting green coffee off of I was just like, had all but it was always like I was lifting and I would do it and I would handle like a hundred and some odd bags throwing, I was getting beefy. - Tony hears about the UFC's Reality show, The Ultimate Fighter. - I'd never watched the show. I didn't know what was going on. I talked to my coach, I was like, Hey, I'm gonna try out for this show. He's like, &quot;you know And I was like, no, I just know it's what I have to do to get in the UFC, - But he gets rejected. - [Tony Ferguson] I would survive But it was that hunger that - He loses his first Karen Darabedyan, pops After the fight, he goes &quot;We danced, and it was funny because I totally forgot about &quot;She turned my world upside down.&quot; - [Tony Ferguson] She's always like not through money, but - Her name was Christina - I went and got a ring. I was trying to get down on a knee and she said yes before But I was like, no, ah, she I was like, no, you See, that's where the That's Cristina Riconan. - His second application also gets rejected. But Tony's the type of guy - I told him, I was like, I You guys need to take me. I was like, I've been I don't have any other jobs. This is exactly what I was born to do. Fighting is in my DNA. - Our pick is Tony Ferguson. - My nose is always in the This is very important. My mom called me, Mr. You know, if you want what you do is you fight for it. - Tony's nasty and Brock Lesnar feels he's the best guy here. - Good job. - [Tony Ferguson] Thank you. - Tony tears through the competition, but finds himself in a weird situation. - [Charlie Rader] Ah! - [Bystander] Tony, don't be mean. Tony, don't start a fight. - [Charlie Rader] Are you getting serious? - [Tony Ferguson] You good? - [Charlie Rader] Are you good? - He's looking at you, are you? - Are you really getting serious? Look at me. - [Bystander] Tony, be nice. - Let go. - Look at me. - But then you see when they start drinking, and Tony definitely got - Where's your kid at? - [Charlie Rader] I will clean for you. - Where's your kid at? - Tony, you know, bringing up my son was, was definitely below the belt. - Back then, his teammate, Charlie Rader, was in a custody battle. - You don't talk about another man's son. - where's your kid at? - Don't say it. - Hey, where's your kid at? - Don't say it. - [Bystander] Tony less dude. - Shocked that Tony that So, it's completely another person. - Most of Tony's journey but this is the trickiest part to discuss. - You're the only mother that ever said some that you shouldn't. - Where is your son? - Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? - He's definitely an angry drunk and can't handle his alcohol and me personally, I've lost a lot of respect for Tony. - This isn't the first time And regardless if I do or if I have an anger that's my choice. - But we're not meant Sometimes in the pursuit of our goals, seeking help is the right thing to do. That's why I reached out to Better Help, so they would sponsor this video. In the past year, I've had some people very close to me go through some really dark times and while I didn't have the right words or tools to help them, I turned to Better Help. It was a catalyst that helped Better Help's mission is to make therapy more accessible and affordable. Finding a therapist can be really hard, especially if you're limited Better Help makes it easy You fill out the questions and Better Help matches you with a professional therapist. If it doesn't click, you can If you're struggling with problems or just to get to your goals, Click the link in the 10% discount off your first licensed professional Thanks to Better Help for And guys, no matter how hard it seems, take care of yourselves. - Alright, this is it. Tony versus Ramsey. - [Narrator] Tony ends up - [Tony Ferguson] I kept and I brought a lot of inner But every single fight, what I did was, I tried to fight him out. You know leave it all out there. - [UFC Announcer] It's all over! Tony Ferguson is the ultimate fighter! Wow! - Right after Tony wins another incident happens. &quot;Tony allegedly had a the Ultimate Fighter 13.&quot; &quot;He flew home to visit his removed from the flight because Christina wrote that Tony went and was prescribed the to treat schizophrenia and bipolar. Now, the good news is that it won't happen again for a while. Tony and Christina get married in 2012 and things get better until 2017. This period also coincides with Tony's iconic rise in the UFC. - This is a rat race, but I'm no rat. I'm a turtle, ninja turtle. So which one's your favorite? I like Michelangelo. - Oh, a fellow Chucker eh? Yeah, yeah, yeah. They gon' have to build Swam with the sharks. It made us piranhas. We ain't backing down. We don't run from drama. That's a promise, ayo. That's a promise, ayo. They gonna have to build Swam with the sharks. It made us piranhas. we ain backing down. We don't run from drama. That's a promise, ayo. That's a promise, ayo - And El Cucuy is scarier than So the top 10 guys that are lightweight, you guys watch This is my weight class. You want to talk ****? I'll be the first one to Mark my words bro, you're I don't even care. - [Joe Rogan] Tony And Eddie said he's never He said the guy trains - He's legit crazy. Like I don't know if he feels pain. That kind of crazy. - They do these hill sprints He goes all the way to goes down and then beats - A year after Tony's UFC debut, another legend in the The Eagle. They gon' have to builds swam with the sharks. It made us piranhas. We ain't backing down. We don't run from drama. That's a promise, ayo. That's a promise, ayo. They gonna have to build Swam with the sharks. It made us piranhas. We ain't backing down. We don't run from drama. That's a promise, ayo. That's a promises, ayo. - Tony and Khabib are but an injury forces He'll be inactive for two years. During that time, Tony and Cristina welcomed their first child. A second fight against - More, more, I love it. - Blah, blah, blah, - No BS, just get there, alright. Just get there. - But this time Tony pulls out. - What was your reaction Tony was pulling out of the fight? - [Khabib Nurmagomedov] I'm I finally want to fight Tony Ferguson. I really want this fight. - That's when another notorious - Who the is that guy? - [Narrator] After becoming Conor McGregor gets a title shot at lightweight against Eddie Alvarez. - [UFC Announcer] The double tag does what the he wants. - After winning the lightweight title, Connor starts chasing Floyd Mayweather. In doing so, becoming inactive in the UFC. - When is Connor compete last time in MMA? I forget about this. - [Interviewer] Long - Yeah, a long time. He's boxing guy. - [Interviewer] Are we close - Yes, very close. - [Interviewer] So is it official yet? - No, it's not official, but we're close. - Defender vacate. That's what I've always been saying. If you don't hold that belt you gotta let it go, son. - I think they're gonna strip him. Cause' Conor's got a hundred I think he's having fun, but I think Khabib versus - Everybody's been - yeah, that's a good fight. - So the UFC schedules This time for the lightweight title. - Well, this is the third time that we're supposed to be fighting here, And the next thing that brings into mind is bubble wrap, Okay. I hope the kid doesn't get hurt. And I know that, I say that I never wish anybody bad luck. The coaching staff, I hope you guys can take care of your boy Because I'm gonna give him his first loss. - [Interviewer] Let's see - Take off your glasses. Bull glasses. - Yeah, have fun with that weight cut. Sucking air. Your conditioning sucks. This is the third time to read my opponent, see - So, you thought he looked a little big? - The dude looked sucked up, man. I mean, the day before, I mean, the fight, I was like, if I look like he felt, I was like, man, I'd be in some trouble. So the first, one thing man, have fun with that weight cut. You don't look like you Whoa! - [Narrator] After cutting - And as soon as I woke up from the nap, I'm like, man, what the hell? Like people look like, they're like, somebody died or something Tony Khabib is sick. He went to the hospital. - What went through your - I thought it was a nightmare, man. Something worse than El Cucuy. - If you're Tony Ferguson and your, your mindset is you're gonna obviously there's more money involved in that fight and the whole deal. It's devastating. - I'm a man, I have a family support and no one understands a business. But the time and the and especially Khabib just kind of sucks. - Tony expresses his changes his tune once he sees this video. - How many? Three tiramisu. This is Russian style. Before eat, we eat tiramisu. - But after I found out it just being unprofessional and stuff, then it started sinking in. Then I started getting mad, - [Narrator] And the UFC - Kevin Lee, you got problems buddy. His name is El Cucuy. - Tony wins the interim belt but still has business to settle. - Dana, Dana, what time is it? Show these guys. What time is it guys? - It's tiramisu time . - The winner of this fight - No matter what you and he's gonna lose in fashion. - 10 Wins Streak versus 25 - Woo, here we go! - When did you find out injured and might be out of the fight? When did you first hear about this? - It is April 1st, which is April Fool's Day. - Did you think it was a joke at first? Like was it hard? - Yes, yes. I think first. Because first April. - Yeah. - There are no April This interview is entirely - Unfortunately, it is, yes. - He's out. I can't believe, you know, how is out. Everything is finished. - Tony does an interview during fight week when he trips over a cable. - He tore his LCL and apparently don't need surgery on, but he He's gonna need surgery. - [Joe Rogan] What Dana - What'd he say? - Dana said he wears That should happen to everybody that wears sunglasses indoors. - Khabib still fights for the belt, but in the lead up to the fight gets attacked by Conor McGregor. - Just tell me where, - It becomes clear that the next fight that's In doing so, leaving Tony aside, strip from the belt, he never lost. - They decide, Tony, you're We're gonna strip you. - Oh man, just having A lot of people, I mean what I have to do and nobody's - Behind the scene, things get even worse. Tony's wife detailed that when Tony injured his knee.&quot; At that time, he was &quot;He began to think she was shower or be in the bathroom alone.&quot; On the 5th of February, and her son up in the said that they had to leave &quot;He believed there would a result of the lunar eclipse.&quot; Tony allegedly &quot;purchased a and their son on a drive inland.&quot; &quot;Tony promised to seek if there was no flood, but On the 12th of February, Tony as a psychotic break or panic attack. &quot;I woke up late that night accusing me of being a witch.&quot; On February 16th, &quot;Tony turned off half the power in their home&quot; because he believed there were cameras in the refrigerator and ceiling fan. Tony allegedly tore the vanity because he believed there was his son's food away because Cristina told police that Tony kept throwing holy water at her. He was advised by the which he agreed to do at the time. On February 19th, according to Christina, Tony had not slept for three days. He believed someone placed Tony allegedly agreed to be at the Keck Medical Center. On March 5th, while they were they hit traffic on the freeway. while the car was moving Tony ran away, jumped over a - [UFC Announcer] Tony a major knee surgery, back to the octagon. - [911 Dispatcher] 911, what is the address to your emergency? - [Cristina Ferguson] I with my son, I was not - [911 Dispatcher] Okay. - [Cristina Ferguson] He - [911 Dispatcher] What's - [Cristina Ferguson] Tony Ferguson. - [911 Dispatcher] Tony? - [Cristina Ferguson] Yes. - [911 Dispatcher] How old is Tony? - [Cristina Ferguson] He's 35. We've been trying, us has been trying to get - [911 Dispatcher] Did he - [Cristina Ferguson] No, no. - [911 Dispatcher] No, you're okay? - [Cristina Ferguson] He's you know, like, he puts holy water on me. I don't know what's going on with him. - [911 Dispatcher] Are you meet with the police so - [Cristina Ferguson] I don't I don't want to go near my house. - [911 Dispatcher] Okay, Just somewhere in that general. - [911 Dispatcher] Over at I mean, wherever you feel comfortable. If you want to, if you're near the house, then you - [Narrator] After getting a Cristina releases the following statement, &quot;Tony Ferguson is a good husband The current legal proceedings are part of a process to ensure that necessary to continue - It's tiram su time mother . We're keeping it sweet. Keeping it savvy and we'll I'm glad you showed up. - You seem to be in really great spirits. I commend you for going head mental health issues and It takes a lot of courage especially a lot of people look up to you. - you. - I was, I was giving you props. I was, I was just wondering. - the advice, next question. - [Audience Member] I wasn't Sorry, Okay. - This guy become little bit old. Only this one, you know, he 36, 37 years old when I beat him, people gonna talk about - When I start having I'll work me and all then we can talk. Family, friends, have their opinions, Depends on how your, how much your mental toughness is out there competing and then what you're gonna do with it. - You know, like fighter, I I no understand this guy. He a little bit stupid a little bit stupid guy, honestly. Like, like I no understand that. - You ain't without - This is crazy guy. I told you, this little bit stupid. - [Audience Member] Khabib, favorite opponent in history is, is this the number two least favorite for you? - Sorry, I don't listen. - [Audience Member] No - [Tony Ferguson] He's ****** - [Audience Member] We know the opponent. - Whoo! - This is the fifth time, - Hey, you know what they say, right? Fifth times a charm. - There's something I forgot to mention. The year is 2020. - Today we got a call from at Disney and the highest level of ESPN and the powers that be and not do this event next Saturday. - UFC 249 has been canceled. All UFC events postponed Dana White says he was but things were taken out of his control. - [Interviewer] When you found wouldn't be able to fight at UFC 249, that he was back home in fifth time, the fight is off. - He does not want to fight. I guarantee you this dude's without fighting me. - You know, I'm starting that this fight is cursed, and, you know, you and I were here two years the fight was canceled, yeah - The fight against Khabib is canceled, but Tony wants to make a to cut weight for it. - [Tony Ferguson] Skinny. - What did you make of his in a very short amount of time? Were you following any - Stupid, stupid. - [Narrator] The UFC replaces lightweight of all time, Justin Gaethje. - Tony Ferguson versus Justin Gaethje. Ridiculous fight and a fight Khabib versus Tony should be happening, but it should have - [Narrator] Tony now only three weeks after - Nobody can be same, long time, nobody. No Tony Ferguson, no Khabib, nobody. And one day someone gonna beat you or something gonna happen, you know? And his day come. - Tony Ferguson's time is finished. You know, now he gonna come back, someone gonna beat him again. I believe, because when you, you never gonna be same, never, ever. Even if you Tony Ferguson. - Nobody spoke up for it's all fight in the street. What did I do wrong? What did I do wrong? - He's 37, I believe, right? It's the latter end of his career, but it still could be the It just depends on him. - Still haven't even hit my prime yet. You dodged me two Chandler. I want to be real. You You got Dana White privilege. - Oh, Tony. - [Interviewer] What is I mean, is this all about, - Goats come and go, but boats stay float. I'm a boat, the best of all time. I feel at this point in time in my life, I'm just barely hitting my prime, which is crazy, When I'm hurt, I love it. I love that feeling because it's real. That's the most realest ever have is being in pain. Because everything else, crying could be fake, but pain, ****, that's real. - Tony, you know this right? You don't need me to tell Like people genuinely love you. The fans love you. They have your back, when They really do love you. And the loyalty that is pretty incredible. Like so, I hope you people have your back. A lot of people want to see you happy, want to see you succeed. - [Tony Ferguson] It's crazy - [Interviewer] And want to support you, so, I hope you know that now. - No mother , that, I'm gonna be done when I want to be done. - By the way, Tony was Khabib did end up retiring But for a very good reason. To hear his side of his and check out this I'll see you guys there. Take care.