A client with rheumatoid arthritis The client's medication oral prednisone And the patient asks the nurse, &quot;What is the reason in Which explanation by the nurse Okay. Here's a lot of If you're like me, one of these because, frankly, So let me teach you you can keep your head in the game. Let's start back up at the top. So, a client with, rheumatoid arthritis. So I'm thinking, what is that? I've got a quick run through But then it says reports. I know that has to be really Now they tell me Well, they have an increase in that is not what we want. So first, I have abnormal findings. I know I'm going to need So just documenting about it The client's medication is changed from oral prednisone Okay, those are two medications. why would we go from oral for a client who has You have an idea? Well, then that &quot;What is the reason in Which explanation by the nurse Okay. So, if I put the question How do I explain to a patient who has increasing symptoms? Why the healthcare provider changed from oral prednisone So do those things on your notes Make sure you write down RA. And what are some Write down oral prednisone, See what you remember before you look Then restart the video. Select the one by eliminating three others. And then we'll come back all the way through to the end. Welcome back. Okay. Now, this one, is it's could This might be in a safety section. You don't always know where So keep that in mind. I know that the pharmacology part is a specific percentage But drug names show up on the NCLEX. So don't let it bother you. Just take each question at a time. So the key to this question. Let's say you don't about a difference between What would be your strategy Well, hopefully you recognize that Okay, so let's start with that. And we'll first So, dexamethasone has better than prednisone. Okay, at least we're talking And I know that goes with steroids. You are changed to a glucocorticoid Okay. Let's think through that. You're changed from to a glucocorticoid Okay, so doesn't mineralocorticoid It does. Remember? Mineralocorticoid will cause you that tells your body so you'll hang on to more water. But here's the deal. I'm going to have what type of corticosteroids Oral prednisone And if I don't remember right now, Dexamethasone will not but prednisone may cause Oh-oh. They are really if I know the difference between Don't worry, They just have Okay, well, that one And I think you probably already Generic names are what you're going And those are generic names. Prednisone and dexamethasone, So no, they don't have because those are the generic names. So, number four, Now we have to go back there and see if you can dig through If you can't remember dexamethasone and prednisone, then you're just on eliminating two answers. So which one did you pick? Okay, good. Now that I'm going to teach you a little If this information is new to you, So you have that in mind, So this patient went from what Remember, they went from Okay. It's pretty logical to think and symptoms are getting worse. Wouldn't we want Because one medication so we're adding this medication, we're trying this So just basic logic would tell you, number one So sometimes, just slowing down even Use your your what you think You will never be 100% positive that that answer is the because you're under stress, You just do the best you can Now, let me give you Dexamethasone is the most potent Okay, so, prednisone than cortisol. But dexamethadone is Okay, so we're going for a drug if we use cortisol If that was like, we'll say We know that prednisone than cortisol. But dexamethasone Now, that is worth writing down just a fun fact for you to have But that's why the physician ordered this medication, because dexamethasone It's gonna hopefully control the that have recently increased The patient's arthritis to that prednisone. That's why we introduced Now, here's another tip. It has no mineralocorticoid Prednisone has a little bit But when we're dealing it has no mineral coracoid activity. Okay, so I've given you a Now look at your answer. Or do you still want to go Okay, because we know in real life we're not doing You're always But for this one, knowing what we just talked about, is there anything you'd want Okay, number two. You were changed to a glucocorticoid That's not the best answer because that's not why we switched. We switched is going to be a much more potent, So number two, you're out. Dexamethasone will but prednisone may cause Now both of these have So, they're both going to cause you or have the potential Remember that prednisone three to five times But that dexamethasone 25 to 80 times. So they both carry the risk and patients usually put it on what everyone loves. Number four, don't worry, We already got rid of that one. So look at number one. Yeah, even if you pick that, hopefully you gain about antiinflammatory medications, from going through the So there you have it. We're ready to go