DESTIN: (NARRATING) a U.S. Navy Los Angeles-class We're about to get onboard. [HELICOPTER FLYING] Thank you. My name is Destin. Arnell. I'm the chief You're the chief of the boat? Nice to meet you, Arnell. Absolutely, no problem. All right. --have to use [HELICOPTER IDLING] Normally, you guys would've but we're not high right now, so there's a little So we can't open Great. Sounds good. There's a drop-off. Look up. -I'm Shane. You want me to go first? Sounds good. Cool. Here. Make sure you take a Nice to meet you. Caleb. Nice to meet you, Caleb. Your steps are the rungs are on the left side. On the left side? Do you see them? Yeah. Got it. When you do go down-- when you get down to the Yeah? Just be careful about that. OK, sounds good. Can I take my gloves You can leave them on. All right. MAN: How's it going? You got some bags for me? The bags will be DESTIN: (NARRATING) To I had to climb down a ladder into the heart of the boat. Now when I did this, remember, I was going from a negative So I kept having problems All footage you're been cleared through U.S. Navy That being said, directed my speech or the I am free to say [LOUD CLATTER] I got it. It was just a hammer. [LAUGHTER] How's it going, sir? Good. How are you? Doing well. Welcome aboard. Thank you, sir. All right. How's it going? Good, good. I'm the supply officer. I'm Destin Sandlin. Pleasure. Camera's all fogged up. Oh, yeah. That makes-- -What happened? Oh, holy cow. Oh, yeah. [LAUGHTER] What's going on, guys? [INTERPOSING VOICES] -I'm Destin. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. -Destin? We're going to step out so she can OK, which-- Which way -We're going this way. Perfect, yep. This is the Captain. -Hey. Destin Sandlin. Thank you, sir. Welcome. So Chop's going to take care -All right. So we're going This is our executive He's asleep currently. So we're just going to-- I'm going to have and drop your bag You're going to be sleeping We're going to go ahead DESTIN: (NARRATING) to point out that you'll hear a female voice. That's Public Affairs Officer Her job is to make sure I don't issues while I'm on the boat. She's awesome. When I first got on handed me a dosimeter could monitor the level of be exposed to while on board. Turns out, it's nothing. He explained that I had on my flight to the sub than I And then, Chop gave me a where I was at on the boat. All right, so this Food mess? This is as real as This is as real as it gets? What's up, guys? How's it going? So this is just like -Can I go look at the-- -The map? Hey, I'm Destin. What's up? Pleasure to meet you. -What's up, man? I'm Destin. -We're here? How many levels are there? So there are three levels. There's three Right above us there's going to This is the Crew's Mess. We call it And the lower level is where work at, and the weapons so the torpedo men. DESTIN: Chop are three levels to the Right now we're in the and he explained that sleeps at any given time. And then he took me to get a This is where the majority So there's going to be people But I just want to how the guys live in here. DESTIN: OK. Cool. CHOP: You'll see there all all their uniforms Don't want to wear your uniform CHOP: Yep. And they have three going all the way down all And then if we go in here, a bathroom and aft crew's berthing So you want to go -DESTIN: Yeah. No? Don't want You don't want [LAUGHING] DESTIN: Chop continued that for security and be allowed near or the aft engine room. After that, I was to do in the event of a fire, And then it was time to dive. Just tell me -Ready, sir. Yeah, ready to dive. -The ship is rigged for of arctic full blow fathoms beneath the ship. Check with Charlie water depth. I intend to stationary -All set, -Submerge ship, aye, sir. Dive, stationary dive -Stationary dive the Dive aye, [INAUDIBLE]. Stationary dive, [HORN SOUNDING] DESTIN: (NARRATING) There was and we'll cover this But I got to talk to the He's been a submariner and he's got a degree in in engineering. To be given the command of a is a responsibility reserved in the Navy's Submarine Force. Now that we're underway, to go down to the is where the officers to the captain about the We're on the USS Toledo. This is Captain Castellano. And thanks for having Oh, Good morning. -DESTIN: Yeah. DESTIN: I hear the-- I hear the ship creaking Is that because-- Yeah. We're deeper. We're coming up to a So that's the hull, -Expanding and contracting? It's not a-- that's just not -is it? [LAUGHING] The Navy allowed me And it's amazing, but it's -I've ever seen. We are under the Yeah. DESTIN: There's I mean, it's-- It's very weird. It's very unique. This is actually the first Very challenging environment, just to be underwater of solid, year-long It really changes You don't have the option or come to periscope would if you had a fire or needed to communicate. That option's gone, with ice for weeks at a time. So that changes how That changes how we And we practice a lot. We prepare for any kind But it does-- it is a very in that respect. It's also a challenging the reason we're up at is to learn how to operate to learn how our sonar system because of the challenging and profile of the water. When you're up under the stuff we usually DESTIN: Like the CAPTAIN CASTELLANO: The that's something that's usually across the ocean. But up under the ice, because the salinity changes all So that's one thing we have to how our weapons systems systems work, learn how to ballast the ship Because that changing the density of the both how sound and it affects how the ship because that density It can change by 10,000 and you have to constantly OK. So the Toledo Mm-hm. So I assume your [LAUGHING] Sure. We can attack. DESTIN: So what are you doing? Well, our missions so I can't go into detail But I can tell you train to, of tracking submarines, tracking killing surface gathering, tomahawk strikes, Those are the things we The main point of you know, anything that to know you're doing, you Because wherever we're at, And that's the main you don't know if there's close by to take you out. -So stealth. So that is what we do. Typically on mission we and it's very broad And, hey, there's a couple we want you to accomplish. But other than that, we're not reaching back to home. We don't-- once we go we don't communicate, because that I just talked about. So we're pretty much when we're at our mission areas, DESTIN: You're at some point in the past. You go under. Once you're underway, but you have to make decisions No. And sometimes you would, certain things happen. And we can always from off-hull. So we're constantly receiving any kind of changes to But no, like, one of the is, they put a lot of in us to be able to hey, I see A, B, I think B is more important, DESTIN: So the whole I accepted that I is kind of like swimming in but I could never really are no windows on a submarine. It wasn't until I that I was given the reality of the situation. This opportunity arose of the Navy's ICEX exercise. It's a joint military meant to demonstrate and perform scientific research. It is a part of a I'm on a Zoom call with Thank you for being with me. -Thanks, Destin. So it's my understanding that at Camp Seadragon by a day. LT. HOWARD: Yep. You flew up Henrik and two of the students, And then I flew with DESTIN: To be clear, the Navy Lieutenant Howard emailed me and we wanted to talk. Yeah. I was not expecting when I emailed you though, I was, like, just use It looks really cool. So you're in the Navy. You are active duty Navy. You're not in a So the Navy gave me a after I was done with to go get a master's degree. Right now I'm a grad student Oceanographic Institute So I applied to MIT And the Navy said, Go be a civilian for two years.&quot; I'm still on active duty, but I And basically when really this amazing opportunity I will go back to the I love as a department head. This isn't a but it sounds like you got right now. So everybody was speculating And you're on that team. And you were, like, Can you briefly explain LT. HOWARD: Sure. Basically what we was demonstrating a concept that is almost as good as GPS. DESTIN: Oh, I see. Because if you go you can no longer LT. HOWARD: Right. DESTIN: So you have to figure where you are under the ice. And that's why being in -is such a big deal. Being underwater in but especially under the ice to come up, and correctly with GPS is DESTIN: Had you not I would not have known what Because when I was I couldn't see anything. So what am I looking at here? LT. HOWARD: We brought vehicle, on the Macrura Macrura is being that we had at Camp Seadragon. So it's slowly moving down. We're pushing it down But at a certain depth, and the tail cone takes over to go do its mission. DESTIN: So you guys like a video game. LT. HOWARD: No, actually So we can talk to it but it has a preloaded And we can update need to talk to us all the DESTIN: So it's time to structure on the boat. Now I knew there were officers but I didn't really understand The enlisted personnel with specific job functions The officers manage and they plan missions and There are three main positions Of course the captain and then you have two You have the executive have the chief of the boat, The COB on the Toledo He's a master chief, enlisted rank in the Navy. I learned very quickly about the boat and everything All throughout you'll see that he's an but what you don't realize in every room he from the enlisted personnel These are the chief's the senior enlisted personnel Let's listen to Arnell talk So you are the bridge between I am. So we have, basically on the So there's the captain, the So captain's on top. And then and me I'm like the enlisted I like to say, the I do people problems. And anything's that's going The executive officer, like, all the training, getting people, And we basically-- to get the information to help him make an informed that he wants to make, I like to call myself -Somewhere in there. But, I mean, that position because he understands Right? Yeah, he's the most important Yeah. I've heard multiple people that your senior These guys-- these guys-- He does. --a lot. DESTIN: Is he allowed to? He is. He knows the handshake. I am in here more than just because this is This is where all the These guys really run So I typically hang out in here just because-- DESTIN: Is that So, it's not. Like, it's a good thing to have. It really is. It's a good thing to have. Like, the relationship with him coming in, and and we can talk So he gets to see a that-- because there are some function like we function. I think here we one of the best overall I've seen in a long time So it isn't normal, but it DESTIN: Got it. Because normally this-- you We're joking a little bit. But normally the captain Is that correct? Uh, I wouldn't say that-- I think most people be uneasy to come in here. Yeah. But I'm not. It's like, -Yep. DESTIN: Got it. Who's best at Xbox? [LAUGHING] Yeah. So what do you guys play? Madden. I play Madden DESTIN: Yeah. [LAUGHING] So it's time to meet the third triad, as the COB called it. This is the executive So this is executive You're basically the -That's a pretty I try to think of myself -But you're the Is that right? -I think my personality to be in that sort of situation. Somebody has to do to make sure the day-to-day And I'm the one who goes around, COB is dedicated to making taken care of. I'm dedicated to making sure to worry about the can focus on the big problems. And so I'm the the guy who hasn't turned I'm the one who hunts hasn't completed his program the And that's just kind of the job. DESTIN: Where are you from? I'm from northern It's near Lake Tahoe. DESTIN: Really. Did you-- did Like, did you just A little bit of But I loved when I visited because these are the most Everybody I work with is I can give a task to and they'll excel in what So I work with the best And I think that's what keeps to do more. DESTIN: So the XO and the Under the COB you have the you have the department heads Here's one such junior he likes to do on the boat. I really like standing officer of the deck. It's a huge responsibility, put a lot of faith in to carry out his intent. And so, to feel trusted like DESTIN: I spent a lot of and trying to build rapport. And every once in a while Good job. I messed that up. I'm sorry. SENIOR CHIEF CARLTON: He was DESTIN: I was going-- The awkward DESTIN: Yeah. [LAUGHING] So Senior Chief the guy that taught me he has a pretty interesting job. This is Matt. He's been helping me around But, uh, what do So I'm in charge of the the nuclear reactor onboard. -DESTIN: The nuclear reactor. DESTIN: I used to, but now I DESTIN: So how exactly I could tell you, but I'd-- I'd have to stow you away. [LAUGHING] DESTIN: OK. So we're not allowed But that's a pretty big deal. That's cool. If you go to the Navy, you Pretty special. One thing that was as a civilian, when is that I saw people learning It was a very Doesn't matter your rank, They're always And for every submariner, starts with what's called Dolphins is a big Enlisted officer-- everyone when they're first here; And like I said, that signifies that you know how So they have to So if you ask any guy onboard what's that? Hey, what's that? They should know. -DESTIN: Really. Does everybody Oh yeah. CAPTAIN CASTELLANO: These guys-- They run the ship. Yeah, I mean, clearly has dolphins. But like, is it like your first what do you call it? The first time you go -Tour-- your first tour. -First sea tour. CAPTAIN CASTELLANO: They're OK. So on your first sea tour, does it take people, normally -You're required to Most people are six to eight DESTIN: Is it more CAPTAIN CASTELLANO: It's different. So for an officer, But by that time they've already school, three months and they show up-- they've got to qualify than the enlisted side. So it takes a little bit longer. So they got to to officer of the deck to can get their dolphin. -So everyone I saw up are they all officers? -Nope. DESTIN: So what's the CAPTAIN CASTELLANO: 140 total, DESTIN: 13 officers? Thirteen officers, 140, -Thirteen chiefs right now. Normally we have 15 chiefs, -OK. Going around the room here, on name tag. PJ, I notice that you -What's up? So I got onboard last June. Typically for officers it takes So right now I'm back qualified all engineering. And I'm working on So typically, eight hours back and then get right -DESTIN: Really? DESTIN: So you're studying Yes. Definitely. Yeah, so, working with, to kind of learn how all DESTIN: So there's a pass-down -Oh, absolutely, yeah. And I only just finished So I'm still pretty fresh. I know exactly kind of what -Yeah. And we got all So, like, the other going over torpedo tubes. -If I'm understanding you as an officer, to some submit yourself to And you kind of take to teach them. -Yes. Yes, sir. And so it's both in our and also it goes that they know what Just like-- even if if it's an enlisted that one person is going to right. People rotate on So we have to teach able to operate at our levels. So it's always our job to And same thing DESTIN: Do you think it's more -Yes. DESTIN: Yeah? There's no person It's just us. -DESTIN: Really? And I've been So this is completely different, Different-- everything So we're under the water. We're on a ship that DESTIN: Yeah. So it's definitely different. DESTIN: So if it's harder, Somebody has to do it. -DESTIN: Yeah. I mean, it takes-- I would say it takes a to do what we do. I did recruiting and the first thing people say they said, &quot;I don't want That was one of the first words when I was recruiting. So it's very hard to find But there is some of us. Obviously everybody onboard in the fleet are I don't know why. We just wanted to, I guess. DESTIN: Yeah? Wanted to give it a shot and DESTIN: Is it more -Definitely. Over time you start to see-- you start to see and the actual benefits of it. It's worth it. DESTIN: The thing that about every submariner I saw and they value worked very hard to obtain it. And I think the reason they to genuinely love their jobs. And when you love your job, I'm having a blast. This is, uh-- to me this This is where I always command of a fast attack Just having fun, living life, I just-- I love it. DESTIN: I had a question and it was kind of like but I didn't know how to ask it. So in order to I think Lieutenant Howard to educate me on this topic. -You're a submariner. -Do you have your dolphins? I earned my Submarine in December of 2017. One question about that. When I got on the USS Toledo-- I don't know how to ask so I'm just going to go It was all men on the boat. And you're a female. So, and you're a submariner. What's going on? Why were there all And, I just don't understand. So in the Submarine have only been integrated And we have a lot of So when the Navy the process of they chose to do it on that we have first, the just easier to set up to go-- things like sleep It was just easier to And then slowly over time, onto other classes specifically the Virginia class. And now we have women multiple platforms, both So my understanding is, the existing for these different Is that what you're doing? Right. And really Really, recruitment over time You don't suddenly several hundred It's like a long, Notably, the newest class the block-four version of are going to be gender neutral. Thank you for setting Now that we have a better structure on a I hope you're looking forward This is the first video Deep Dive into Nuclear So I hope you would because we're going of different stuff that Like, how do you make How do you cook? What's up with sonar? Like, there's so many it's amazing. So please consider subscribing. Maybe even ring the can be notified when I upload. It's awesome. I would now like to tell you I think you'll love, to be extremely important to This episode of Smarter Every I brought you down to because I bush-hogged it At least that's Because I was listening to Eugene B. Fluckey. This guy changed submarine that when they have a promotion they read passages It's like a holy text. And every submariner So if you want to go to Audible.com/smarter, to 500-500 and a little link During World War II, named Admiral Eugene B. Fluckey. He later got the for what he did The Barb sunk the most tonnage of any submarine in the entire war. And the techniques and were, like, crazy at the time. He did insane stuff. He put rockets on top had never been done before. It was incredible. Like, this-- this Think about that. If you don't know what you will after listening It's incredible. When you sign up as you also gain access to original titles-- unique pieces of content for Audible members. Tons of stuff to and you can have your Go check it out, Text the word &quot;smarter&quot; It's a great deal. You will get smarter. You will reclaim your time. Audible.com/smarter. Real quick on the way I want to show These are orange flowers And my dad and I do not because butterflies love them. And we want butterflies So I don't know but they're really, It's a very vibrant orange. Anyway, I'm so glad and I hope you subscribe for the rest of the Deep Dive here on Smarter Every Day. I'm pumped. Anyway, thank you. I'm Destin. You're getting Have a good one. Bye.