Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, in partnership Microsoft Copilot to communicate more effectively Copilot can help you stay on top of your meetings and summarizing key points. Then we'll jump into threads, draft responses, and even coach your Microsoft Teams in my calendar view. Here at as often as we bake cookies. I'd like to use join a meeting. Up in the top right-hand corner, let's click on Start Meeting. This opens up a Copilot to assist you throughout your meeting, right at the start to enable the transcript. and I have the option to start transcription. Copilot relies on the transcript to summarize and Copilot won't be able to capture the entire Here, it wants to know what language is everyone US, over here. I'll click on Confirm, and when see the Copilot pane where we can interact with meeting, you can still use Copilot, but there's so that Copilot knows what to focus on. Let's take in Meeting Details for an upcoming meeting. To be on top, let's click into Meeting Options. Within click on Recording and Transcript, and this brings there's a setting titled Allow Copilot. With this with or without a transcript. Here I am now in you can see that Copilot is already enabled. anything. It's really neat functionality. It'll action items, and even suggest follow-ups. so down in the bottom right-hand corner, let's so far. Within the text field, I'll type in my send that. Right up above, I can see a summary we're talking about the expansion of our Chocolate that we don't have enough staffing to be able to fast on what's been covered so far. Although, I do in the first place. So down below, I can also ask text field, I'll type in who originally brought up and let's see who brought that up. Right up above, interested in discussing the expansion. Now, citation, and when I hover over this, I can see came up. That way, I know that I'm getting I could also type in additional questions about hover over and click on More Prompts, and here you I think this one is really good. What questions above, I can see all of the open questions. Here, monitor the Chocolate River? It looks like there or bonuses can be offered for the nighttime shift? we can ensure that we close out on all of these that I need right now from this meeting, so in meeting is over, I can go back and I can review Here's the meeting that I was just in for the and right up at the top, I have the option to I can see all of the AI notes. Here, I have different follow-up tasks. The beautiful thing all of this for us. Over here, I can also review what was said throughout this meeting. Not only I can also continue interacting with Copilot. In and this opens up the Copilot pane. I can see and down below, I could also ask additional I'll always be up to speed on what happened in a actions are. You can also use Copilot outside I'm currently in a channel, and there's a long let's see if we could use Copilot to help me also see if there are any action items for me. If on the three dots, and here we can get highlights also open the conversation in a new window. in the top right-hand corner, I have access to thread from that channel. I'll click on this, and I can now type in my prompts. For example, catch see a summary of the entire thread, and I also see I need to coordinate the logistics for the blimp know that I'm on that. I'll click down here into I'll work on the blimp promotion, but I think the use Copilot to help you refine your writing. this icon for Copilot, and when I click on that, have it rewrite my message, and I can also make can make it more concise, longer, and I can also confident, or enthusiastic. Let me set it to Patti, I'm excited to start working on the blimp right here, I'll click on replace, and that you can't have it write new messages, but it does can also use Copilot to edit an existing message. thought, maybe it would have been better to write over, right over here, I can click on edit, access to Copilot. When I click on this, I can now and instead of enthusiastic, let's go with Patti. I'm looking forward to beginning work on professional. I'll click on replace, and then because I edited this message, you'll see text message was edited. Although we looked at channels in chats. Back within the main Microsoft Teams to the Teams left sidebar. Let's click on the for Copilot, but I see it right here. So, I'll app. If you right click on it, you could also and once it's been pinned, you can also move here, I'll press and hold on it, and I'll move it access to Copilot. The Copilot app in Microsoft app that you'll find on the taskbar in Windows. sample prompts that I can ask Copilot, and down one of my favorite tips, you can enter is Copilot knows all about your people, your and you can reference any of those in your access all of the Microsoft 365 content that you neither will Copilot. Whatever you have access Let's try typing this in. Here, I'll enter a person. I'll click on People, and I want to know was. I'll select her, and here, I can type in my let's send that. It appears that my last email to her. It also looks like we had a meeting on or the meeting, you'll notice that there is a hover over it, if I click on this, that'll bring here, I see another citation for the meeting, and I have a flood of messages. Right up it sounds like there's maybe a delay on a cookie also sent me an email, and I need to get through especially looking at Diego's message. He Luckily, right up on top, I can get assistance by Copilot. Let's test this out by clicking email message, and it gives me all of the key shipment's delayed due to a logistics issue, and up with the shipping company for resolution, the shipment. Then down below, Diego has an action vendor to confirm the revised arrival time. Well, know that I'll follow up on that. So, let's click a new email message. Now, down below, I can draft Right here, I have a few different preset follow up with vendor, or await further updates. this one, and there, Copilot writes a response. appreciate you keeping me informed, and I will arrival time, as you suggested. This is and also confirms that I'm going to follow up. Copilot helped me save a lot of time by composing so down below, I can click on keep it, and when I text into my email message. Down below, I'll add Now that I've responded to Diego, up on top, here, I better follow up with that vendor to see top left-hand corner, I'll click on new mail. This if Copilot can help me draft a message to this you can do that. Up on the top bar, you might have here, I can draft a message with Copilot. I'll itself, I can also click on this text that says forward slash. Let's try entering in a forward and right at the top, I have the option to draft a text field where I can prompt Copilot. So right message to our supplier, Delicious Baking Goods, It's delaying our cookie baking. Can you also ask I also have some additional settings. And when I to be direct. I'll select this, and down at the it short. And once I select all of those, over on here, it's now generated a message. It's a short Although, I just realized that I forgot to include number, and also our customer name, the Kevin you'd like to change. Well, I'd like to include and over here, let's send that through. And there, additional information that I provided. It name. And down here, I'll click on keep it, and this was just a short example of an email, but bit longer. Copilot can help you save so much Kevin Cookie Company, I always want my emails to especially when I'm talking with customers, Copilot can coach me on my writing. Right up and she gave me some customer feedback. It looks Now, right up on top, I started composing an email in the past that my responses aren't always the send it as is right now. Let's see if Copilot Right up on top, let's click on the Copilot icon. coaching by Copilot. Here it says get suggestions Right down below, it's now analyzing my message. and also provides feedback on how I can improve my I included in my message. They're still cookies, in every batch. And as I go through, here I could and it tells me what type of changes I can make better written message. And I think both Patti, satisfied. Up to this point, we've been looking at whether it's summarizing a message, helping you can also use Copilot across your entire inbox. a Copilot logo right here. And when I click one thing I'm curious about is I've gotten these finishing off all the different action items right down at the bottom, I'll type in a prompt, the action item for emails from today. This Right up above, Copilot generates a table with both had requests for me. And here I also see a customer complaint and also check in with the taken care of both of those, so now I'm confident For inspiration on additional prompts in View Prompts icon. And here you can see all with Copilot in Microsoft Outlook. And that's more effectively in Teams and in Outlook. For us changer. It really keeps us on top of the dough. ideas, be sure to check out the Copilot lab made above. You'll find guides to writing powerful And for those of you really looking to master Copilot training. You can click on the card catered specifically to different role functions IT, and marketing. There you can find webinars make the most out of Copilot in your everyday they go on all the time. So you'll likely find one watch more videos like this one, please consider