Few things improve troop morale better than even if the name of that hot meal kind of sucks, like this favorite front-line breakfast from World War II creamed dried beef on toast better known as $#!t on a shingle. So thank you to my Patreon patrons for constantly supporting this channel especially on videos like this that'll probably get demonetized because I keep saying $#!t on a shingle this time on Tasting History. So I am releasing this video on Veterans Day, or Armistice Day, or Remembrance Day depending on where you are and every Veterans Day I remember my grandpa, Gramps, who used to tell me stories about when he was in World War II. He was part of the when he was over in England and France, and even in Germany just after the end of the war and I credit those stories with giving me my love playing with his Micro Machines and there's an old so so long ago but the way that he told the stories was so engaging and made it so personal that I was in entranced and I just loved him I couldn't get enough, and so I guess you can kind of say that the reason that Tasting because of those stories that my veteran Gramps used to tell me, and so I figured what better way to honor my grandpa here on this Veterans Day than to make a dish that he might have eaten when he was in the military even if he very purposefully left it out of the stories he was telling his 7 year old son grandson because there was no way my grandpa would or as the recipe from the U.S War Department in 1944 called it which for six gallons called for seven pounds of dried beef, a pound of fat melted, flour, evaporated milk, water, and pepper. Separate beef into small pieces, mix melted fat and flour, stir until smooth, mix milk and water, heat, add gradually to flour mixture stirring constantly. Add chipped beef and pepper, heat to boiling point, reduce heat and simmer Now obviously since this makes six gallons or 100 but I do think it's really interesting how besides pounds and gallons they also measure in Like one pound of fat would be a half No. 56 dipper because you wouldn't often but you would probably have the standard quart And the writing on the dipper was so standard that you could use it to make measurements as well. Another book specifies one cup of liquid comes to the top of the date figure, two cups to the top of the manufacturer's letter, and three cups of liquid will come to the top of the U.S letters. I of course have no dipper and I'm not making six gallons worth so for a smaller portion what you'll need is: just over half a pound or 250 grams of chipped beef. So this in these little jars. You'll need four for this that is then pressed into a form, dried and kind of reminds me of the smell of a can of kind of, but it's all wrapped up like this and they kind of remind me of Pringles. Yeah so this is what you need for this recipe. Then 2 tablespoons or 30 grams of fat. This recipe is not specific in what kind of fat the earliest recipe for this dish it says A heaping third cup or 40 grams of flour, one and one and a half cups or 350 milliliters of water, So the recipe from 1910 which was probably used during World War I also includes parsley and uses beef stock. It also for 60 servings rather than seven for 100 servings like it was four ounces per serving and then by World War II it was just over one ounce per serving. Just thought that was interesting but to make the World War II version of SOS [$#!t on a shingle] chop the chipped beef into small pieces, and then peel everything apart and put it into Some old recipes say that the beef is so salty that it I don't think the modern version is as salty so if you While it does, mix the evaporated milk and water together and heat it over low heat. Then separately melt the butter over low heat in a pot Let it cook for about a minute then slowly pour in the hot You want to constantly be stirring and let it cook for three or four minutes while it thickens. Then whisk in the pepper, then finally add the chipped beef, then bring so it just simmers for about 10 minutes and it'll Now one of the things that actually inspired me to do a I was having with an old friend that I used to know in New York who now runs a website called veteranlife.com. The site is dedicated to providing veterans and military families with different resources and benefits that they might a lot of wonderful things for civilians because I spent time on this site because they I read a wonderful story about the Navy's ice cream They were basically giant floating refrigerators in the Pacific and I think that that is going to have to be the topic let's talk about the men who would have been making that So whenever discussing a topic as large as there are so many variables and situations that they're going to be exceptions to everything and exceptions to the exceptions. There was and there were different levels of preparedness at often went awry but in general this is what Typically each company of about field kitchen with maybe a half a dozen cooks. With some help they could set up the entire kitchen in under 30 minutes. The goal was to have the kitchen close depending on a lot of things terrain the proximity to 100 yards back or 10 miles back. The nice thing about 3 or 4 other kitchens to become a battalion sized kitchen. Also being further back meant that that they would be less likely to be the target of enemy fire so that they could maybe do some cooking during the day because if they were too close then all the cooking had to be done before sunup and after sundown. Now the kitchen could be anywhere from a nearby building to a tent to the back of a truck but they all had the same equipment. Most important was the gasoline-powered M1937 range stove. It was very versatile and could perform all of the functions of any stove top and oven in a normal kitchen. They were of course rather compact but usually a company had two or three that they could work with, and one training video from World War II said &quot;If you lose your oven, take couple of barrels, cover them with clay and bake your bread&quot;. Now some of the other equipment included large immersion heaters that could heat that could be used then for cleaning preferably using new water. And speaking of water when it came to drinking water it needed to be purified and then was kept in a Lyster bag Then there were mermite cans, these and meant to hold 3 or 4 inserts like a and were often used when the kitchen was far from the Food could be prepared at the kitchen and then put into the containers, into the mermite can put on a truck and brought to the front line to serve the men but if you were doing this you really wanted to pay attention to which mermite can you took because some were labeled with ETO Blood Bank with blood meant for transfusions given near the front lines. Mixing those up would be a mistake you would not make twice but assuming that you got the right can what kind of meals are you loading them with? Well officially you have very little say in it especially starting around World War II there was a big push to make sure that the troops were getting enough of the right minerals dishes and entire menus were created by nutritionists back in Washington, and in one video from 1943 about the nutrition program they talk about how they started out by examining The Japanese were supposed to have extreme energy given to them by a simple handful of rice, and &quot;the Nazis are supposed to have a Superman vitamin pill&quot;. Though the attempt at replicating the effects of this pill with mere vitamins did not really work because actually this superhuman pill was something called Pervitin which had methamphetamine that would give the Some say that the Blitzkrieg couldn't have happened without but while vitamin B might have not the military did put together a top-notch diet plan for the Menus for dinner could include chicken a la king with Lyonnaise carrots and an apricot upside down cake for dessert, and all of the ingredients would be dried or salted or otherwise preserved and shipped all the way from the U.S to the front lines all over but of course most of these ingredients never actually made it to where they were going or at least not in a timely fashion so you didn't have everything at once so the field cooks usually Though depending on their location that could be something pretty nice depending on where you were. When the 10th Mountain Division &quot;We used lots of fresh Italian ingredients, as much We also learned to cook a lot of pizza this woman You made do with what you had and many times that actually meant field rations. Basically if you were near the front at least one meal a and for some troops it could be every meal every Now I want to do a whole video on the field rations of World or meal ready to eat and actually I should try actually eats these old foods. I'll put a link to where you but since it was part of a cook's job to make sure that everyone had the field rations that they would need we should touch on it now. So there were lots of types of field rations that you could get depending on where you were and at what point but between 1942 and 1945 the two most common were the C ration and the K ration. The C ration was three meals each made up of an M unit or meat unit and a B unit which was the bread or dessert. The M unit was the main dish, you could have beef stew with peas or a canned meat and vegetable stew. At the beginning of the war there was pretty much only different stews but later on you might have meat and spaghetti and tomato sauce, eggs and potatoes or pork and beans. Then the B unit had some hardtack [Clack Clack] though it was supposedly softer and easier on the teeth the biscuits being made of soybeans, wheat, egg, and lard. &quot;Pretty tasty biscuit.&quot; Then there'd be some coffee powder or sometimes lemon drink then there'd be some sugar, salt, maybe chocolate, and often cigarettes and gum. All told the three meals provided 37 to 3,800 but were better when they were cooked. Now the C ration was a good amount of food and was quite varied but it was heavy and so if you were a remote or They weighed less partly because they had less calories, and were supposed to be much less edible. Things like the fatty pork loaf and the maltose and dextrose tablets would often just get thrown out by the troops. The thing is the K ration was meant to be used for no more than 5 days but there are stories of soldiers living almost exclusively off of them for weeks at a time. One unit known as Merrill's Marauders lived and after 5 months of fatty pork loaf to walk into a field kitchen and be offered Once everything is simmered for about 10 minutes and then ladle the creamed beef onto the toast and serve, and here we are World War II creamed dried beef, I kind of spread around here on the &quot;shingle&quot; because I feel feel like they gotta go together. All right here we go. [Crunch] *mumbles* That's not bad. All right. It needs the shingle. The toast is really once the once the toast kind of had it's not terribly pleasant. It's just kind of chewy. That said the flavor of the whole thing, not that actually reminds me of the gravy that my grandpa used to make though he would put it over biscuits and it was made with bacon fat so if you want to make this with bacon fat it is quite good. That said the the flavor is is good. It could use more more spice probably some more pepper. I mean it's a pretty small amount of pepper for for that quantity so you could add more pepper. You're not being rationed hopefully. What I would think is actually really good is just a different meat like ground up sausage or cut up bacon or something like that something that just the texture is a little more pleasing to the That said when you compare it to a lot of military foods it's not that bad especially the older military foods out in the field. This one I could see I could see looking forward to it. Anyway if you are a veteran or in the military or part of a military family or just interested make sure to visit veteranlife.com and for those of you lucky even if they weren't in World War II go ask them to tell and you'll appreciate it when you're older. So don't forget to Like, Subscribe, have a fantastic Veterans Day or Armistice Day or Remembrance Day and I will see you next time on Tasting History.