In the heart of Minneapolis, Minnesota on the Saint Anthony Falls Lock and Dam, which originally past the falls starting in 1937. It's a famous this striking overflow spillway with a stilling sandstone from erosion. But there's another dam and a little less scenic, aptly called the Lower the spillway for the lower dam is less than half on the exact same stretch of the Mississippi same floods. That's partly because, unlike its is equipped with gates, providing greater control dam. In fact, dams all over the world use gates If you ask me, there's almost nothing on this blue Plus I've always wanted to get a 3D printer for I put some sparkles in the water, and I printed a talk about the engineering behind them, and one type of gate that's designed to raise and this particular type of gate was made famous in and this is Practical Engineering. On today's This episode is sponsored by Almost all dams need a way to release excess ever tried to build an impoundment you know how powerful even a small amount of the most complex part of a dam because of the that quickly flowing water can quickly tear a Dam in 2017 is a striking example of this. where the water naturally flows through once gated spillways provide more control over the more cost-effective structures. There are have been used across the world and throughout modern engineering has coalesced to variations on simplest is the crest gate that consists A primary benefit of the crest gate is that since there's nothing for the flow of crest gates is that they provide a since they act like a weir with an adjustable dams where the upstream water level needs to be San Antonio we have the RiverWalk downtown. If the and if it gets too high, it will overtop the most of the dams that manage the flow of water gates like this one. Just up the road from me, Town Lake) in downtown Austin. Longhorn Dam has the central gates on the dam that handle everyday back Town Lake in Tempe, Arizona uses a series Crest gates are attached to some kind of arm use hydraulic cylinders like the one in Tempe actually use a large nut on a long threaded rod You might notice I'm using an intern with a metal but most interns aren't actually strong enough one of the most significant disadvantages whether hydraulic cylinders or something else, itself but also the hydrostatic force of the Let's do a little bit of quick recreational The gates at Tempe Town Lake are 32 meters or tall. If the upstream water level is at the top of pressure on the gate is around four-and-a-half newtons for every square meter. Doesn't sound like and square meters of such a large gate, you get pounds or 660,000 kilograms. That's the weight Tempe Town Lake has eight of these gates. The withstand those enormous forces 24/7. That's a lot especially because when the operation system pressure tend to push the gate open, letting dangerous condition downstream. The next kind Radial crest gates, also known as Tainter that converge downstream toward a hinge called of chains or cables, and water flows underneath. of stays where it's put due to friction, but close under their own weight. That's a good thing, breaks, the gate fails closed. The hoist is also with the trunnion bearing the hydrostatic force make radial gates so reliable that they're used dams around the world. If you go visit a dam flowing spillway, there's a pretty good chance The trunnion that holds back all that pressure impressive piece of engineering. I mean, it's pin to the rest of the dam are pretty impressive. so the hydrostatic pressure on a radial gate acts off the hoist, providing low-friction movement. the design of many older radial gates neglected needed retrofits later on. I mentioned the video. That one wasn't so lucky to get a in 1995. Operators were trying to raise one spillway when the struts buckled, releasing was half empty by the time they closed How did they do it? Stoplogs, another feature the world. Just like all mechanical devices that damage during a failure, spillway gates need That's hard to do when they're submerged. but it's hard to paint things underwater. In effective to do most types of maintenance Usually these are simpler structures, of the main gate. Stoplogs usually can't used as a temporary measure to dewater the put some stoplog slots on my model so you can into the slots one by one until they reach open and the space is dewatered. You can see but that's normal and those leaks can be diverted upstream face of the gate is dry so it can be And if you look closely, it's not just my model all spillway gates leak at least a little bit. them leaking too much. After all, there's not water. The steel components on spillway gates surface of the spillway. Instead, they are on a steel plate embedded in the concrete. in them. I won't read you the entire Hydraulic Radial Gates or the US Army Corps of Engineers but suffice it to say, we've tried a lot over the years and have it mostly sealed up to a oriented so that the water pressure from upstream making the gate more watertight. Different locations to allow all parts to move without In fact, there's one more type of spillway gate important. Beartrap gates are like crest gates but beartrap gates use two overlapping hinged different way. The theory behind a beartrap gate between the two leaves. If you introduce the resulting pressure will float the in turn, raises the upper leaf. The upstream increasing the pressure within the chamber tied in a way that once fully open, they can be to the upstream water is closed, and the water relieving the upward pressure on the lower leaf so It sounds simple in theory, but in I built a model of a bear If I open this valve on the upstream side, pressure. In ideal conditions with this would create enough pressure to lift both help from the intern hook. But you can see the lower leaf floats upward as well. When together to be self-supporting. Some old bear give the gates a little bit of help going up. charm. It took a few tries to figure out how much It's not just my model bear though. Despite the huge benefit of not raise and lower the gates, this type This chamber between the leaves is the perfect quite difficult to inspect and maintain because flows. And because they weren't widely used, so anytime something needed to The world got to see a pretty dramatic with maintaining old bear trap gates in 2019 when one of the gates at Dunlap Dam near New This dam was one of five on the Guadalupe River area. But over nearly a century that followed, got a lot more expensive. Since the dam it was nearly impossible to inspect the But that lack of surveillance caught up 2019 when a security camera at the dam gate's hinges. The lake behind the dam quickly some of which are still going on today. Luckily, Eventually, the homeowners around the lake and rebuild the structure, a task that is nearly course, there's a lot more to this fascinating of spillway gates in our lives and what can go And here's what can go wrong if you good in a beard. My New Year's Resolution and I think it might be my wife's resolution too. and I told them I wanted to try the razor first. even know where my old razor is now because I was borne from a machine shop's pivot away from and it shows. It's just such a piece Is a new razor going to change your life? Probably most of us. And using a precision tool, at least small part of my day that I actually look forward but I've found that it's easier to use because it the entire width, so it's less likely to cause a razor until I did the math for how much I was for most people, it will pay for itself within cheap you could probably put a new one on for if you buy a razor, put the 100-pack of blades in checkout, those blades are on me. And 100 There's no subscription service or a monthly and I think you will too. Again, use my code the channel and get 100-blades on me. Thank you