There are many sagas sung about the tales of Sometimes they fight alongside but for the most part it seems that the focus is occasion where an entire unit proved worthy of its you can learn much more about the epic history one dream one dream offers subscription-based from history to science travel art hobbies and from your more academic courses to well-produced recommend their 26 part series the vikings hosted overview of their history starting from the bronze middle ages it does an excellent job tracing the moments and elements of daily life which bring blown by the episodes on the christianization the merging of cultures and watch the ripples right now onedrive is offering a free trial the description below or visiting onedrive.com at what they have to offer and dive into the Right off the bat it must be stated that semi-mythical unit with very little that can modern day are a scattering of written records and The meat of their legend primarily which exists in four Icelandic versions Beyond this they are passingly the Heimskringla, the Fagrskinna, the Knytlinga, Taken together these records cohesive story of the Jomsvikings. However just doesn't make them true. In fact scholars greatly figures or events are believed to be fictitious Suspiciously, the closer we get to records the more they recede from our view. This Likely there is some seed of truth at the from fiction is virtually impossible. Thus with a healthy dose of scepticism. That being was certainly inspirational to real people in and is well worth studying. With that As we mentioned, there are several sources Each of these weaves its own narrative. while choosing them all leaves be doing our best to stitch these together Based on this approach, it seems that the late 900s AD. Tradition claims this Palnatoke. However another possible candidate much of his reign fortifying the realm with One saga makes this claim explicitly: Quote "King Harald [Bluetooth] raided in the land of at a place called Jom, and since then He put a commander in charge of it, and himself was hostility between the Wends and the Danes, and To this day, there is much dispute However the recent discovery points to its existence at the northwestern most It is here that researchers have confirmed but this is far from conclusive. Meanwhile others some of which have since been overtaken by the Regardless of where we might we can at least give you its description settlement sprung from the muti-ethnic market find a large number of men from "Eastern Lands". "At [the mouth of the river], where Jumne, a most noble city, affords a very widely who live round about. Because great and scarcely I think it of interest to introduce a few facts of all the cities in Europe, and there live barbarians. For even alien Saxons also have the provided only that while they sojourn there they all its inhabitants still blunder about in hospitality are concerned, a more honourable wares of all the northern nations, that city Yet the settlement was not just a commercial would now be reinforced by the construction of a for many hard-bitten warriors. The sagas mention which passed under a great stone archway. This may man-made part of the circle-style castles commonly were made of wooden walls, half encompassing an the water. The sagas in this case claim that the Though such a claim is highly dubious it likely But it wasn't just the fortress itself which true claim to fame. In this regard our sources fill this new bastion considered themselves For instance, rather than falling in line along developed a unique brotherhood whose bonds In a manner similar to the Knights Templar set of codes which enshrined their exclusivity 1. No man younger than 18 or 2. Kinship was not to be taken 3. No man may run from an opponent &quot;who 4. No man may indicate fear by speech 5. Jomsvikings must avenge one another as brothers shared equally among the entire group 8. No man may spread rumors. 10. No man may have a woman in the fortress city 11. No man may be absent from the city 12. The leader is to have the final say involving kin-slaying, even that which may In this manner were the ranks Let us now take a closer look Generally speaking they would have donned However, as we shall soon discuss, they served as need and the means to equip themselves in a manner Instead Jomsvikings were likely closer who would have had a full kit, richly In terms of defence this meant donning a shirt brothers who travelled south to the land of the helmet and shield which provided ample protection For offence, spears and axes were the Wealthier warriors often wielded swords most troops also wore a sidearm such as the these were likely also decorated with intricate Beyond this nothing else is stated explicitly. ranks none possessed legendary or at least named in other sagas which feature warriors bearing treated with fire, impervious tunics fashioned that emerged from their guard. Unfortunately But how did these troops come to find themselves place? Well, as we stated the first group got behind their original leader. Upon getting they soon began launching annual campaigns across deeds travelled fast and the allure of their thirsting for adventure, who Generating a pool of potential recruits was to uphold their reputed exclusivity and accept The sagas share several examples of The first involves the tale of two young brothers, new mercenary group to the east, they pleaded However he wished that the promising youths They were therefore sent off, each with their own way. They took this challenge in stride. ransacking and pillaging the farms that enough supplies and wealth with which to When their ships finally arrived, their presence who allowed their ships to enter the harbour. The that only half of them passed. While the remainder swore to faithfully uphold Soon afterward, another group came to join. But had been killed in the previous year's raids a blood feud would have destroyed However the Jomsvikings were different. With the newcomers on the one condition that they bury those deemed worthy were allowed to join. All As the Jomsvikings reputation grew, it inevitably characters. Among these would be a teenage boy describe him, saying that "he was such an unruly killed three men." At the age of twelve, Vagn by 60 young men between the ages of 18 and 20. ravaging their way across Denmark as appears to After a long journey, they finally arrived demanding the right to join the However because they were led by a child, year old Vagn challenged the Jomsviking leader Thus, two ships sallied out to do battle The ensuing naval fight was apparently ferocious. to dance around the enemy, unleashing a rain Forced to retreat, the Jomsvikings now landed their heels. The 12 year old lept ashore, leading the frozen mud. Unable to resist, they called thirty of the Jomsvikings were found dead while display was good enough a test for all of them As should be no surprise, Vagn would go on These sorts of hazing rituals are certainly are told in a Homeric style. They focus on of their faceless followers and are often these tales nonetheless make clear the dynamics As we have seen, their exclusivity attracted the best of the best could be selected. New thus marking the first lashing that bound the connection would only grow as the strict their previous bonds while strengthening new comradery was paramount and would be reinforced the limitations placed on contact with the outside Taken together, it's easy to see how this mercenary corps. Now let's go on to see how Tradition holds that the first man to lead He reportedly established their code and develop their reputation. However the Jomsvikings overthrown by the arrival of Styrbjorn the Strong. with new recruits and fresh ambition. Together through annual raiding of the Baltic coastline. "They go raiding every summer in various countries It is said by all that... there or warriors than those Jomsvikings, and we They now sail from the south along the coast, not They make large cattle raids and kill many people, to cold embers, and they went on the warpath And everyone who hears of their ravaging Such success quickly snowballed with the followers. This in turn allowed them to field more Soon they were even able to start throwing their earls, and kings. Ultimately, Styrbjorn seems to to make a play for Sweden where his uncle, on the throne. Thus, following the buildup of the Danes to assist his war aims. One source gives the the lands of Harald Bluetooth who in return agreed While these claims should not be taken at the Jomsvikings were at least in a position to This fleet would supposedly launch an After making initial progress, King at the Battle of Fyrisvellir. It is here Swedes unleashed a stampede of cattle against the The move disrupted the Jomsvikings but they soon For two days the fighting was said to have slowly grinding their way through the army of his The second night saw both sides seek the when Styrbjorn sacrificed to Thor he was met with a stranger appeared from the forest bearing a When Eric did so the next day it transformed into over, and unleashed an avalanche which buried but all seem to conclude with the defeat In the aftermath, the Jomsvikings were left to next Jarl was known as Sigvaldi Strut-Haraldsson, originally left his home to join the crew years Sigvaldi is described as being more prudent increasingly extended their influence across by taking on a range of mercenary contracts For instance in 986, Sigvaldi would lead them on a recently broken free from Danish rule. Either as the Jomsvikings came with a fleet of 160 ships. causing devastation wherever they went. A survivor local Jarl, Haakon the Strong who immediately When the Jomsvikings heard of the and set out to meet Haakon at a place that being outnumbered two or three to one, the Their sheer fearlessness in the face of death, gear, allowed them to press the Jarl's forces Seeing this, the Norwegian leader turned to the own daughter to gain their favour. Sated, they which apparently only affected the side of the the tide of battle began to shift. But rather fled. With his departure, what The Jomsvikings would never recover in numbers much of their ferocity and reputation. Over the mercenary work for the various Scandinavian were reportedly staunch devotees of the Norse they even found themselves in the employ For instance around 1000 AD, roughly 70 the Christian king of Norway, in his campaigns that they would be ambushed by a coalition of it seems that this had been a carefully the Jomsvikings turned upon Olaf's men. It helped swing the pendulum of Scandinavian This resurgence would breathe life into During these years Thorkell the Tall, the younger the Jomsvikings. By some accounts he Here they caused such grief that King Aethelred danegild to cease their assaults. Soon more forces with the English to repel the invasion their hand however, the English King turned The survivors escaped and In 1015 they would return whilst in the service of once again proved their mettle, winning many East Anglia; and his warband became the nucleus would be their ultimate undoing. Other Kings which might at any time be employed by their could not be allowed to stand. Thus when King and began to consolidate power he planned to 1043 the King led a great force to decisively to the ground. Unfortunately the details of this left to imagine the final end of the Jomsvikings Ultimately however many of their former of the North through a continuation of their the legend of the Jomsvikings would live on. We hope you've enjoyed this delve into the history ever to set foot in the north. What A huge thanks to the Patrons for funding and artists for making this episode possible. and check out these other related