Sister, please let me take a break to visit my child. I miss my child so much. Oh, I miss you so much. Chip. Are you good at home? Do you chop bananas? Oh you're back? Yes, why don't you borrow your phone and call me to pick you up ? Are you happy to see your mom come home? Sister, please let me take a day off to visit my child. I miss my child so much so I can pay you the salary. Yes , please . I'm going home. Please go home and visit your child. Then come down to work. Yes, I'm coming to visit my child. It's okay. Then I'll go down again , who took my bag by mistake ? Did you rake the grass? Yes, I'll go pick up your chip at home. Yes , just scratch me a little and I'll go clean up the scratch and leave it there. Oh, don't do it anymore. Go play with your chip . Let's see the cow. You're staying with me now, Dad. Nam. Slice bananas for the duck , yes, that's right, very good, but look what Mr. Ten is doing, wash your hands, wash your hands, then take off your hat, leave it here, keep the cow at home, Dad, Nam, cut bananas. Hi Chip, I'm here and I'm back? Yes, I miss Chip so much. Are you good at home? I love you so much, chip, do you miss me? Where is Nam's father? Chip call Nam's father home, where is Nam's father? What fruit does the chip have? I'm in a hurry so I can't buy anything for the chip, so let's go see who Nam's dad is going to feed the ducks? Chip at home, are you good? Be good, don't cry a little , don't cry too much, are you very good ? Can you chop bananas? Oh you're back? Yes, why don't you borrow your phone and call me to pick you up ? There's also a bus back here. Do you have to take the bus home for the money? Yes, I'll just walk a little bit. I'll come back to visit Chip Chip from time to time and I'll miss my mom so much. I'll just go home and the car ride will be tiring. I'll go up to the house. I 'll take care of the ducks. Don't play with the knife, okay? Come on, Chip. When I'm done, I start the kitchen to cook dinner, so I go up and tell my mom which house to go to , is this? Well, go up to the house and boil a pot of water for me . Once in a while, when I get home, I'll kill the chicken and eat. Come on with the chips. I'll finish this. Chips up there. Let's eat . Go up. Let me eat. Come with me. Oh, what's wrong, baby, this evening, Nam's father asked me to feed the chicken drumsticks, will you feed the chicken snacks? Did you put it in his mouth too? Fertilize and see what's wrong with the chip? Is the chip damaged? Is this bad? Is it this bad at home, Mr. Ten? Is it true that when my mother comes home, the chip is broken? spank your butt and come in here with your mom when you go to work and I was about to take you to catch a bus to get home but Ms. Tan told you to leave. Is your work hard? No, it's just leisurely work. I'll just go wash leaves and pack leaves. I can do light work. Yes, are you good at home? Well, Chip goes to school very well. When I went to pick him up, he didn't cry. Now he's used to it. When he comes home, does Chip bother Nam's father? I have thighs for this chip , let's feed this to dad. Nam, let's see if it hasn't worked yet . Let's give it to Uncle Ten, let me, let's go, should I go home today or go home completely? If I miss Chip, I'll go home, but I probably won't go anymore. It 's winter and it's cold, so I'll just stay at home. I'm afraid Chip will get sick. I still have work and I'll miss Chip so much. Just go. I thought I'd move on again. It's winter and I'll just stay at home. I'll take care of my hair. I still have work to do. I'm afraid I'll get sick. The weather has changed. Let's get your hair long and poke it in your ear. Tomorrow, let's get a haircut. Tomorrow, let's get a haircut. cut like a child Boy, do you want to cut like dad? Nam, do you want to cut like dad, Nam? I'll cut my hair tomorrow, okay? Is that Okay? It's very hot near the kitchen . Where's Mother Thu? Where is Nam's chip? Just nod? So where is Uncle Tan? jute? Let's eat, let's eat, mom, get some rice for this child. Eat rice, please eat. Yes , I'm here. When I go to work, Ms. Tan has a hard time at home. This is for Ms. Ten. I'm staying at home to look after the chip and do the housework, too. Eat a lot, what should I have for chips now? Did your mother pick up a loofah for you to eat? eat it here? I've eaten it all, so good. Let's have another one, Mr. Ten, please eat . Mom, I'll give you this food. Don't you want to eat it? The chicken is delicious. I'll eat a lot. Chip , please take it. Dad, Nam, can I have a piece of the chip ? Is this a piece? which? Well, this is not always the case