inside the album more info at fullinbloom.com November 30th 1982, the double album featured live Black Sabbath, it was certified gold on January 11th 1992... anyone that's looking slightly normal led to the decision to release the double Sabbath's publishing agreement with their former enable Osbourne and all the other songwriters furthermore there was a rumor that Don distribution deal with CBS Records and had already alongside business considerations Black its own live album prompting Osbourne's Speak of the Devil I was I was standing on the coming out my mouth okay I thought, what a great me stand me standing on the front of an album company makes me want to dive right into a turkey it's all sentimental you know whatever you want to over over my mouth I was like you know and that's somebody goes out and finds one of the album cover no no, that's what you saying with a lot of the sticker and he's got collector's item um they did release a certain amount but I stopped am they make a record company makes a lot of dough a record speak of the devil people naturally those why... When the idea to record an album of Black not well received. Initially, guitarist Randy did not want to work on the project believing it Sabbath covers, after expressing their viewpoint his bandmates despite not feeling totally at the trio informed manager Sharon Arden of their relatively well, Ozzy was furious and responded by Rails as Ozzy's worst drinking binges he had ever we traveled within a suffocating tension field and Gary Moore today and they're both willing that's fine with me, Randy replied. It was during for drunkenly urinating on the Alamo, several the entire band including Rhoads, all you guys are Ozzy screamed. On February 20th, soon the band arrived in Dallas to play a show at guys we need to talk. I had a meeting with Ozzy condition, that after I fulfilled my commitments album and do one more tour, that's it, after that in music. Although Randy revealed his plan to exit the guitarist expressed his doubts about album incident. No one knew it at the time Aldridge said. I remember when we were Randy was talking to me about how frustrated he before Blizzard of Ozz and Diary of a Madman, what was going on. He was expressing some that might come back to haunt him and because of he kind of confided in me a little bit. Speak recorded at Toronto's Maple Leaf Gardens, the what Sharon anticipated would be the greatest rock came to an abrupt end after Rhoads was killed in a property owned by the Calhoun Brothers tour bus and small planes, without permission tour bus single engine beechcraft F35 plane registered to Aldridge recalled. I remember that we had been we were coming through the south on our way to company, the bus driver who was also a pilot lived he said to us several times, when we stop there was not interested at all because I travel for my spare time is get on an airplane plus this guy flying an airplane. We arrived there early in hear the plane flying around, when they landed I so Randy and Rachel who was our wardrobe lady, She was a black lady in her mid-50s with a heart walked down the aisle of the bus and flung open up and said, Tommy, come on let's go for a ride. airplane right now, and I tell you nobody has any all night and has no business being up there I said no. So Randy and Rachel went up I could I poured some milk into my tea and was stirring on the roof of the bus, right above where I was of these weird smells. I was still half asleep. I asking what happened, all that I could hear was the bus was parked in front of the home, which was out in the middle of nowhere, there was this circular driveway in front of it then there was front of the home and the tip of the wing hit the of the house, after leaving the bus and hearing around and realized at that point that the plane to find the plane. I couldn't find it. All of a roof and I'm thinking, oh my God they hit the roof door was open. I realized at that point that the I started to go into the garage and at that point and it singed the hair on my eyelashes. It was now the entire house was on fire, so I ran around to the front door and turned the knob. It wasn't old man sitting there and I startled him really time. He had no idea what was going on and here stuff all over my hair and face. I was yelling through this guy's head. He finally came outside the ground. Everyone was so frantic, angry at each were all severely affected by it, though Rudy even and he really knew Randy longer than any of us. It band. It just really emotionally affected Rudy. what had happened, Sarzo recalled side stepping the gaping hole in the bus to see tour manager the ground screaming, they're gone they're gone. explained that although he had been concerned of foreboding. It all seemed so innocent, Duncan take us up. I must admit it was a bit scary when but after a few attempts we just landed, that was It shook the bus. I opened the curtain and I saw that divided the front lounge from the sleeping blown out of the window on the passenger side manager on his knees, but we didn't know what was and there's the wife of the bus driver standing Sharon pushed her to one side, we exited the bus, and there's a colonial style house and the garage some pieces of information begin falling into on the plane. This helplessness, this hopelessness are being consumed by the fire. Rhoads, who was getting on the plane. Duncan explained how the after we landed, Andy came up to me and told ride and that being aware of her heart condition circle the property a couple of times and not he decided to join them, so he could take some Airey was the only member of the band to witness of the plane to give to Randy afterwards. I had sort of struggle going on aboard the plane. The one point the plane almost became perpendicular, I put down my camera and saw the plane right in hit and looked over my shoulder and watched it impact into the garage. Aycock's estranged wife Band members reported that Aycock was attempting Wanda emerged from the bus shortly after the doorway watching the plane as Aycock made his is that Wanda was standing in the doorway of the crashed the plane. Sarzo also mentions Aycock's effects of cocaine and sleep deprivation. Given Rhoad's actions in the last seconds of his life which potentially could have killed everyone Aycock tested positive for cocaine, while Rhoad's investigation determined that Aycock's aviation reported that he had been a pilot in another fatal the prior crash but never informed anyone else she reportedly admonished tour manager Duncan a pilot who had been driving all night telling one of the Calhoun kids in a helicopter crash? having to deal with reality as we're leaving the immediately. Still feeling despondent hours later and eventually came upon a church. I'm in the some peace of mind and some answers and I keep more pain than me because I was in shock. Of really feel pain. I was numb and this person was their emotions. I had no idea who it was, and look and then I realized it was Ozzy going through a little differently because Randy meant different person that was able to help him break away from to me, was a mentor and a brother and the person and Ozzy. We all had different connections with Make sure to look for part two, Inside the Album, [Music]