- [Narrator] We are surrounded by order. Over the last 300 years to harness energy. And we've used this ability But all these structures are just one type of visible here on planet earth. There's another type of invisible order every bit as complex that we're only now It's something that nature billions of years. Something we call information. (dramatic music) The concept of information It's actually a very difficult idea to get your head around. But in the journey to scientists would discover a fundamental part of our universe. This film is the story of information and the immense power (soft music) It's the story of how we and how writing, codes, and our understanding of the universe. It's the story of how in disorder, information can and structure. At first glance, information straight-forward idea. It exists everywhere in our world. Our brains are filled with it between each other. But information has been difficult concept that science Understanding and harnessing and difficult process. The power of information 5,000 years ago. When a revolutionary One that would set the Over the years, mankind has remarkable stuff. But of all humanities inventions, stands out. It's the most transformative, technology ever conceived. And it's also one of the simplest. That invention is the written word. At it's heart, writing is and storage of information. Words allow ideas to endure through time. These are some of the and they give us incredible of writing. I've come to meet one of read them, Dr. Irving Finkel. We take writing so much so I guess it's easy to - It certainly was. - How did it first come about? - The earliest writing clay tablets and it comes from and it comes from the And what happened here was purely pictographic signs And this lasted for quite a to somebody, perhaps accidentally, is to make one of these of the clay, not from what it looked like, but for what the sound it represented. - Not a picture of an - That's what we always called - [Jim] By combining the Ancient Mesopotamians imaginable. The essence of their for example, that a picture a deer didn't have to The pictures could be they made. In this case, &quot;idea&quot;. Once this system was discovered, it mean anything that could be spoken, even the most strange could be transformed into symbols. Information could now live And this meant it could endure It was an idea that fascinated - This lovely tablet who lived in about 2,100 BC. He buried this in the as a message for the future. This king (mumbles), powerful Akkad, that's the sound ancient Mesopotamia. Her house he built for her afterwards. So this is a proud thing, And this is a real message for the future. - What's so remarkable for me stored on clay for thousands of years. - Yes. - Ideas that someone had 4,000 - You have ideas, you have you have literature, you have prayers, you have all these sorts of fixed forever in clay. (soft music) - [Jim] By turning sounds into symbols, the Mesopotamian scribes could be changed very easily From something that to something that existed But this was just the beginning. Humans were yet to realize (upbeat music) For 4,000 years, writing information technology people used. But in the 19th century, revolution, things would begin to change. In the maelstrom of ideas and inventions, a series of seemingly emerge that all began to of information. These technologies would all very un-theoretical origins. But they would start was a much deeper and anyone had realized. One of the first of a technologies would be Lyon at the end of the 18the century. 18th century Lyon was craftsmen in the world. It was also a place of and above all, money. Thanks to the fish and fashionable who lived there, it would silk weaving industry in the world. Almost a third of the city's silk industry. And it was home to over 14,000 looms. (soft music) This is blockade, the material It's a beautiful and as you might imagine, is to produce. A two many team working at best, produce about an (upbeat music) The demand for the fine But the silk weaving But thanks to a soldier and weaver named Joseph Marie Jacquard, a to help speed up weaving. In the process, it would about information. (upbeat music) building on the work in 1804 Jacquard patented his invention. At the time, the loom was ever built by human kind. (mysterious music) Jacquard's loom was a You see, he designed a without any alteration it's hardware, to use a modern term, could be programmed to could think up. In fact, it could produce a with barely a pause in production. Jacquard had found the Holy was a simple punched card. (dramatic music) The punched card held within that the loom would weave. When these punched cards they would act to lower and Recreating the pattern in silk. Any design you could think and translated into a and could then be woven by the loom. Information was being card to the finished fabric. - It is a machine for weaving but there is nothing it should weave. That is contained in the on the cards. So if you like, the cards program it, that is to say instruct it what to do. And this has huge resonances - Jacquard's loom revolutionized But at it's heart was something deeper. Something more universal and it's ability to speed up weaving. The loom revealed the power It showed that you can take extract the vital information, and represent it in another form. Writing had revealed you to capture spoken language. Now Jacquard had shown a hole or a blank space, it information in any picture imaginable. This is a portrait of Jacquard It's spectacularly detailed of stitches. And yet, all the information life-like image can be stored 24,000 of them, to be precise. This picture is a fantastic reaching idea. That the simplest of systems, a series of holes punched in them, can capture the essence of something much, much more complicated. If 24,000 punch cards could what would happen if you had 24 million? Or 24 trillion cards? What new type of complex captured and represented? Jacquard had stumbled on far-reaching idea. As long as you have enough of them, simple symbols can be used entire universe. Translating information to store and process had powerful idea. But the way information was sent, the way it was communicated thousands of years. - The world before was a very different place messages as fast as So you'd write a message on like that and then you'd could run very fast or to very fast. But the point was you could fast as you could send matter. - [Jim] But in the 19th information could be sent Thanks to an incredible new electricity. Very soon after excitement grew about it's transmit messages. It seemed that if it could at will, electricity will for sending information. Electricity seems to offer sending messages. It was sent down a wire, which go anywhere. It wasn't affected by and most importantly, it But there was one big early 19th century who as a means to communicate. How could such a simple messages? Here in the science museum most impressive collections communications technology in the world. Here are just some of the signals using electricity. This one particularly fun. It was developed in 1809 in So if the sender wanted to send letter A, send the current through At the receivers end is and the electric current causing bubbles to appear above The whole process is ingenious, But what's really fun is that receiver know he's about to send a signal. He does that by sending extra more bubbles appear, forcing a ball and trigger a bell. As you can imagine, this of systems. After Soemmering, all sorts in trying to crack the using electricity. But they all suffered from These devices each cunning were all destined for the And that's because in the a way of sending signals that It was developed by Samuel Morse. Together with his colleague, Alfred Vail. What was so special about technology that was used but the incredibly simple to send them. (mysterious music) Just like Jacquard's punch cards, the genius of Morse and simplicity. Using a selection of short current, they could spell alphabet. Vail suggested that the English language get the shortest code. So an E is sent like this. While an X is sent like this. This means that messages and efficiently. - Figuring out the code part of it, the software if you like, was out the hardware side of and the wires. And together they made an which is the electric telegraph. - [Jim] The telegraph had of translating information Information had at first Then held in symbols in cards. Now, thanks to Morse, electricity. And this made it unimaginably than it had ever been before. In just a few short years, spread around the entire globe, laying the foundations of Between them, Jacquard and ways to manipulate, process, What had begun with the of years ago, had culminated planet in a lattice of wires information at incredible speeds. For people at the end of the 19th century, it may have seen that and transmit information was at (mumbles). They couldn't have been more wrong. Information would reveal more fundamental concept than It would soon become apparent about human communication, it idea than that. The true nature of information thanks to a strange problem. One dreamed up by a brilliant appeared to be thinking about (mysterious music) James Clark Maxwell was one 19the century. Among his many interests, by the science of thermodynamics, motion that has sprung steam engine. Maxwell was one of the first is really just the motion of molecules. The hotter something is, are moving. This idea would lead Maxwell force experiment in a crucial role. Maxwell theorized that simply inside a box full of air, one half hotter and the other half colder. Think of it like building without using any energy. (humming) It sounds crazy, but Maxwell's persuasive. It goes like this, imagine of the box who has such observe accurately the motion inside the box. (eerie clinking) Now, (mumbles) he's in divides the box into two halves. Every time he sees a fast the partition from the right hand side, he opens it up allowing And every time he sees a slow the partition from the allowing the molecule Now, you can see what's going to happen. Over time, all the fast accumulate on the left And all the slow moving, Crucially, the demon has done more than information about Maxwell's demon seemed to information about the molecules, you could create order from disorder. This idea flew in the face (crash) The science of thermodynamics that over time, the it's disorder, would always increase. Things were destined to fall apart. But the demon seemed to things back together without Just by using information, It would prove to be a to solve. Not least because the with an idea far, far ahead of it's time. - It's amazing the And that he came up with and that he already, in some sense, pre... Anticipated the notion of information. That wasn't actually there at that time, there was no such thing. - I think this idea was astonishing. He didn't really have a a concern and he left it open. And I think what followed of extremely exciting debate resolve and address this concern. So, what was going on It may sound far-fetched and fanciful, but imagine the possibility in the real world that of the demon. I could use it to heat a cup of coffee, or to run an engine, or to power a city. All using nothing more It's as though we could without expending any energy. Scientists felt intuitively The problem was it would the problem. While Maxwell's riddle rumbled on, something quite unexpected was to happen. A new device was dreamt up incredible and complex information. What's more, this was a be built. The machine would come to And the idea behind it came and visionary scientist. Alan Turing was the first modern computer. A machine who's sole process information. A machine that harnesses the A machine that enables almost world. Turing's incredible idea legendary mathematical In his brief life, Alan groundbreaking ideas to From cryptography through to biology. The sheer breadth of his But for most scientists, in these 36 pages that mark It's this work that makes him Published when Turing on compute-able numbers (mumbles) problem tackles mathematical logic. What's amazing about it is computer emerged simply as brilliant reasoning. - He was thinking about he wasn't sitting there thinking, &quot;I want to try and invent He was thinking about this the foundations of mathematics. And the computer kind of fell completely unexpectedly. Nobody could've guessed abstruse research in the could produce anything of any less alone a machine that of nearly everyone on the planet. (dramatic music) - [Jim] Turing had set out processes in mathematics following a set of rules. And this is what would get (dramatic music) In 1936, the word computer to what it does today. It meant a real person engaged in arrhythmical calculations. Banks hired many such people, often women, to work out interest payments. The Inland Revenue employed tax to charge. Observatories hired them to Human computers were Dealing with the huge amounts by science and industry What Turing did in his 1936 but profound question. &quot;What goes on in the mind &quot;computation?&quot; To do this, he first had to details so that only the very computation remained. So, first off, went the then the slide rule, then the pencils, and the pads of paper. All these things made it absolutely crucial to the computation. Now Turing asked, &quot;What goes &quot;computer?&quot; It's a vastly complex consciousness, thoughts, and insights, but to Turing none of these of computation, either. Turing realized that to compute something, a set of rules had to That was all. - He takes the higher pre-supposed to be which is thinking, and says process that is, mechanically to perform the same act. And therefore he eliminates agency with all it's high level functions. And that is what is to do. - [Jim] Turing's brilliant had two aspects. The data and the instructions the data. And this would be the key to his insight. - Turing had to find a understand instructions like divide, and so on in the In other words, he had to instructions like these into could understand. And with flawless, impeccable logic, Turing did exactly that. This may look like a random but to a computing machine, that can be read off, step by step, telling the machine to So while a human computer and understand the the computing machine had to This paper tape that Turing now call the memory of the computer. But Turing didn't stop there. Turing realized that feeding in this way had an amazing consequence. It meant that just one almost any task you can think of. It's a beautifully simple concept. In order to get the machine all you had to do was feed New information. This idea became known as The more you wanted your machine to do, the longer the tape had to be. Bigger memories could instructions about how to information imaginable. With a big enough memory, of an almost limitless number of tasks. This idea of Turing's that tasks can be carried out machine a long sequence of legacy. Since his paper, Turing's So calculations, making phone calls, recording moving images, writing letters, listening to music, none of They call all be carried A computing machine. This phone is a modern incarnation Inside here are many, many instructions. What we call programs, They are nothing more than telling the phone what to do. What's amazing about Turing's scope. The sets of instructions could tell it how to mimic I think we'd also describe the laws of physics, the This is a simulation of behaving like a fluid. To work out how it flows, a set of instructions held in it's memory. This only begins to hint at the This is a computer simulation of the entire universe. And it reveals the true Turning instructions into understand allows you to recreate, not just a simple picture, a system, something that By manipulating simple symbols, capturing the essence, the itself. (upbeat music) By thinking about how the computes information, Alan important ideas of the 20th century. The power of information (garbled talking) It would be very easy to think were made real, the true would be unleashed. But Turing was only half the story. The modern information age One that would finally pin and it's relationship to of the universe. It was an idea that would and eccentric mathematician and engineer. (soft music) Claude Shannon was a true to tackle unusual problems new idea. One that would uncover the and the process of communication This is Claude Shannon's paper, The Mathematical Theory of Communication. Now, the title may sound it's one of the most of the 20th century. Not only did I lay the communication network, it into human language. Into things we do intuitively, The paper was published in at the Bell Labs in New Jersey, the research arm of the It was an institution famous relaxed atmosphere. - The mathematicians were that interested them. The only thing that the of them is that they keep from any other department that they would at least think about it. Otherwise they were absolutely the atmosphere was incredible. People were playing - Hello, I'm Claude Shannon, Bell Telephone Laboratories - [Jim] Claude Shannon, in reign to do pretty much what he wanted. - This is C2, C2 is an (mumbles) - I never saw him juggle, ride his unicycle, he brought he must have cost Bell of time. - [Jim] But despite the Network faced a huge problem. Every day they transmitted information all across the world. But they had no real idea information properly, In short, their entire they didn't actually understand. Amazingly, their super star would give them exactly what they needed. (garbled talking) In this paper Shannon did He took the vague and mysterious and managed to pin it down. Now, he didn't do this philosophical definition, to measure the information Amazingly, Shannon realized in a message had nothing Instead, he showed it was the message was. - Information is related So news is news because it's unexpected. And the more unexpected it is, So if today's news was the there would be no news at content would be zero. So suddenly you have unexpectedness and information. - But Shannon was to go it's very own unit of measurement. So how did he do this? Well he showed that any could be translated into binary digits. A long sequence of ones and zeros. So a simple greeting like like this, or like this. Just think of this as another message. (curious music) Shannon realized that binary digits would be an It would make information controllable, and precise. In his paper, Shannon showed one of these ones or zeros of information. Think of it as an atom of information, the smallest possible piece. Then, having defined this basic unit, he even gave us a name for with today. He used a shortening of bits. The humble bits turned out idea. (curious music) - This is the smallest It is highly significant (mumbles). It is the smallest unit of sufficient discrimination to (upbeat music) - [Jim] The power of the bit Any system that has two or tails, can carry One or zero. Punched or not punched. One or off, stop or go. All of these systems can Thanks to Shannon, the bit of all information. Anything. Sounds, pictures, text, transmitted by any system two states. Shannon had founded a The ideas he began to explore of what we now call information theory. He'd taken an abstract and turn it into something tangible. What had been just a vague something real. The idea of converting digital would fundamentally of human society. But information isn't just We're beginning to lies at the heart, not only but also at the heart of Every bit of information every book, every film, internet amounts to pretty with the information content of nature. And that's because even the contains spectacular Let me show you. Imagine how many bits of to describe this. The beautiful and intricate taking place at scales and imperceptible to us. But here, you're still only complexity of nature. (eerie music) Imagine the interplay between of atoms. The amount of bits you is almost unimaginable. But what's amazing is that Turing and Shannon, we are and simulate nature in But this isn't the end of the story. Information, it seems, isn't reality. In the last few years, we've is actually an inseparable It's a really difficult but information, everything to the contents of a dictionary, all information needs to physical system. Amazingly, the reason we between information and demon. Remember, it seemed like the to create order in a box completely disordered. Moreover, it could do this Information seems to be able Well, that's not true, it can't. The reason why Maxwell's demon lies here in his head. What was discovered was this, nothing more than information But this doesn't mean that for nothing. Remember how the demon works. He spots a fast moving molecule opens a partition and let's But each time he does that, about that molecule's speed in his memory. Soon, his memory will fill continue if he starts Crucially, this deletion energy. - The demon needs to keep are moving where. And if the record keeping at some point the demon's That's an irreversible entropy of the universe. It's the eraser of information once and for all. - [Jim] What was discovered specific minimum amount of energy, known as the Landauer Limit, one bit of information. It's tiny. Less than a trillion trillionth in a gram of sugar. But it's real. It's a part of the fundamental Amazingly, we can now do aspects of Maxwell's idea. By using lasers and scientists around the world between information and energy Maxwell's thought experiment, still remains at the cutting today. Maxwell's demon links together concepts in science. The study of energy and It shows that the two What we now know is that information, far from being some abstract of physics as everything - Information is not just intersection, just a mathematic thing on paper, actually information so it's encoded onto something, Whatever, there's a carrier and that means that to the laws of physics. So it cannot break the laws of physics. (upbeat music) - [Jim] What humanity has millennia is that information from the physical world. But this is not a hindrance. What makes information so stored in any physical system we choose. From using stone and clay preserved over eons, to so it can be sent quickly, information gives it unique properties. Today, scientists are exploring information, using everything particles. They hope that this information age. Every bit as transformative as the last. What we now know is that of our journey to unlock It's always been clear that the structures we see We need to do work to But in the last few years information, creating the of our modern world also As abstract and ethereal we now know it must always system. I find this an incredibly exciting idea. Think about it this way, a write a poem on. Molecules of air can carry And a single photon is like a paintbrush. Every aspect of the physical as a blank canvas, which structure, and order. (dramatic music)