Have you ever wondered, do you need Well, in this video, I'm going to break down the difference and when you should use one versus Okay. Let's get started. All right. So when it comes to trusts setting up revocable versus irrevocable trust, And there's a lot of information Well, what I find many individuals fail to realize they're just not great for a lot of situations, because of perceived benefits failed to materialize unless they're I'm going to really getting into So to talk about the two, and give you a high level And then I'll show you in which situations Okay. So a revocable trust. So a revocable trust is just that. That means that you can cancel this trust So if you have the ability as the trustor to revoke the trust and just throw it away all the assets to yourself. Then in that scenario, then that type of Now what is that? Then why would someone set up Well, there's lots of reasons is that you want to make sure that, hey, Okay. For estate planning purposes, for asset protection purposes But at the same time, So you're not looking so much You're looking for the anonymity. You look for the estate You just kind of get it out of your name. So what are some of those types of trust Well, the types of trust that we're talking about here Your living trust is always going to be revocable, so that you could never change it, Maybe a child now develops a bad drug habit, where they were to receive 50% of your estate and you did not enact Or maybe you had one in there. and now do you want the child problem Probably not. So you want to have that flexibility So that's why living trust is oftentimes That is we don't know exactly what's So I want to maintain that control Now another type of trust here trust is going to be that land trust. And I talk about a lot on this channel about using it for putting your real estate of flexibility over how that asset Not to mention that it provides That's why many people will also set up A residence The difference between the residence trust trust is a strategy for your personal residence They get a judgment against you Then it will not stick to your house. Maybe another one you might look at I'm just going to put here. This is a great trust to use I and some of my videos are referred And people say, hey, well, and he's never heard of the word monkey Well, there is no such legal What it is, is a personal property trust checking account and again, but at the same time to pull money in and out So we're not locking anything down. So these are some common revocable trust. They have a specific purpose Now the irrevocable trust. Now that's a different animal altogether. So with the irrevocable trust these You cannot change after you've set it up. So you have to make damn sure and who's going to receive those assets, because once that's set up, Now, when we set up irrevocable trust, one of the benefits that does not come from a revocable Okay. So what held in an irrevocable trust the beneficiaries, creditors Those assets are beyond their reach. That is, they can't break the trust and get into there They can't force a distribution to make sure that they get paid. And that's why, if you're weighing, the scales here, and we were to put all right, so, And, on this side, And then on this slide, Right sitting over there. This slide here is definitely going It actually would fall down to here, going to offer you more protection And just by the nature of the beast, it's And that's why I'm going to cover for you that you should consider But understand what the limitations are, And here's something else to consider. You can have a trust over here It can start in that quadrant And then when you pass away, And that's what I was referring to when I talked about that if you set up your living trust, and then it becomes irrevocable and offers Okay. So back to the irrevocable trust. So what are some common that people will set up Well number one So we set up these types of trust And we do that that the policies the the the proceeds we received when we pass those proceeds, are going to be held in a trust from the beneficiaries creditors, Maybe it's a whole life policy but it's also set up to avoid a state tax because it's considered So when you set up an irrevocable life insurance trust, I am putting my life insurance policy for the benefit I'm gifting it to them now, and I've given it up So that that's a common strategy there. Another one might be a qualified personal residence trust. I'm just create a party trust I'm talking about up above, So you can create a residence trust However, there are some some limitations that go with that, Namely being that the house has to be free have any mortgage on it, or it makes this And again, this is another estate But the most common strategy in, we talk about in irrevocable to as an asset protection trust, which is self settled. Okay. Lot of words there to unpack. What does that mean. So when we talk about an asset protection what we're referring to is a scenario you are creating a trust here. All right. So you're setting up a trust And you want to be the beneficiary okay. So you want to be because the other trusts that are referring or an irrevocable life insurance trust, there, oftentimes you're not going to be You're not going to be the beneficiary You're transferring the assets to the But you're putting on controls So you can And they don't get the benefit But with the asset protection trust, what you're doing is you're setting up and you're going to take your assets, be it real estate, cash savings, stocks, and you irrevocably transfer them into the trust name, you're going And when you transform into the trust, this type of transfer Well, I can't say this is the reason we're doing it, beyond the reach of a creditor. Right? I mean, that's that's what we're doing I mean, obviously that's, you know, what you're going to put in the trust agreement because you want to provide distribution of these assets in your centralizing that in the trust. But that asset protection piece, the actual trust statute So that is a reason for doing this. So when you move these assets in, when I say it's self settle, that means Now here's what you have to understand is that they're meaning not every state recognizes So if you're looking for a trust structure and provides estate planning, and you're willing to give up some things Then you may want to consider or a self settled asset protection trust. Okay. So what are the the issues associated with Well, you have to make sure that the state where you're going to create this type For example, So we like to use Nevada. That is one of the states, Delaware is another one. Alaska. And there's several there's about, I a North Dakota or South Dakota, I believe, a asset protection trust. And so the longstanding the law did not recognize trusts that were set up by individuals Meaning I couldn't just create a trust, and then my creditors couldn't couldn't get into that trust The law just said, where you're the beneficiary then we're not going to recognize it And we're just going to assume Since you can you have access to it, Well, what states have done is They've said, all right, well, Well, the law of this state, So if you're looking for asset protection I need to use this trust in which you can use it and some, some ways if you want to set up this type of trust then you have to establish it that recognize it, otherwise For example, if you live in California, you want to set one of these up You'll get zero asset protection. A credit will blow through it. And when you set up an asset protection what you need to recognize is that You have to have a distribution trustee. Distribution trustee that is not you. Okay. So this person here, independent. Oftentimes, that person must be located in the state So we will form these trusts. So we out of our Nevada office, to be the trustee of our trust. So now people are not comfortable using or setting up this trust Right. Do you know, do you think an attorney knows how something that you're into Probably not. unless they work for Anderson, of course. So if you want to get asset protection control then the way you set this Okay. So this is you Trustee. Okay. So you were the investment So so you decide how all of these assets The distribution trustee has no control. The distribution to you distribute the assets to you. Obviously you can ask the distribution But you can't appear to control You know, So there's a very specific language because you have to create this appearance your ability to receive funds from Now this is essential Now how do we go about then So we give you which is kind of baked in, but This is where the magic happens. So if you're thinking about using an irrevocable trust how you typically So what we like to do is we like to create So we'll set up a Wyoming LLC. And then we're going to create asset protection trust down here. So I'm just called a napped in Nevada You will be the beneficiary of this So you're going to be And then we're going to use I'm going to I'm going Here's And then this is you. You are the investment trustee okay. So you're set up there Now this Wyoming LLC. What's going on with that? Well, in the previous, example, your assets directly into the trust, You could change the accounts You could change title of the property Name. But what I would rather do Maybe it's more than one LLC If you're considering putting cash stocks in liquid type If you've watched my videos about how to you never want to put up so you could have a scenario going into this trust based upon Nevertheless, So let's assume I was just going to put in Why would set up a Wyoming LLC Now I'm doing this again I want a higher level of asset protection So I'll start off where I am. The sole member So I'm the only member. And then I'm going to assign transfer move my interest in the Wyoming LLC So rather than moving the actual accounts themselves, I'm funding the asset protection But here's the trick. When you fund this trust with this LLC, you're not putting 100% in. You're putting in somewhere You'll transfer into this trust In my example interest of that LLC. And you were the manager of this LLC. So you're the manager. So what does that mean? You control the limited liability company. So all of the funds set up here, that's held by this asset protection That's it. It does not hold the actual accounts. So the distribution trustee here, the attorney and an asset protection trust, And in this case the only thing they hold Now obviously I hold 10%. I don't need the other 90%. I'm going to leave it in my trust. Now, if you were to take this asset here, that the LLC generated 200,000 this year 90% of that So you have a bank account distribute the Obviously, the distribution trustee Not a problem. They can say here, here's 30 Whatever it is I do that C with the limited liability company. Keep all your cash up here. And this is what people will do Because they don't want to be working Now, maybe you do it on occasion, with your LLC and the investment powers, right now You see, when I'm up here as the manager, I have the ability because of the way for our Wyoming LLCs, that You have to have the non clause in your LLC to do You can decide to distribute to yourself as a distribution as a 10% member 180 K. Now some of you are like wait a minute. You only want 10% and you made 200 K. I calculate your distribute amount B How do you take 180 k out? What's how you draft your operating. You set up your operating agreement. So distributions do not have to be based In fact, when you give yourself then it creates this debt Now just you owe yourself money But what we're doing there is we're even meaning that if someone did sue you on your 10% interest, well, because yet 10% interest has an outstanding debt So even if you did decide to take money you would never distribute yourself because you have a charging order, a lot of money, meaning you've taken out So all future distributions and away from your creditor. So setting up an irrevocable If you need that enhanced asset protection and you want to lock things down because these can exist So oftentimes we find that physicians People are in a high risk profession. And what they will do is they'll do They create their nap So maybe we have a cash or savings type We have a real estate Like you've seen me draw many times 90% of the real estate, 90% of the cash will hold the 10% of this one And so what this strategy allows you to do and at the same time Now the devil's in the details. That's why I would highly encourage you There's a link to set up with an advisor in our firm, and make a determination this is the right structure for you, And if it is, then you're going to find into the future, well, that makes it extremely difficult I hope you got a lot out of this video, the like button. Take care.