It was the shot heard around the world. On a gunman fired into an open-topped car, killing heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire was the One by one, the great nations declared war, and America had all been sucked into the quagmire. million people and change the course of history. obscure archduke whose death set the world Born into a branch of the Austrian royal family, of rich obscurity. Until, one day, tragic empire. As emperor-in-waiting, Ferdinand implemented changed everything... only for an assassin's Biographics, we're investigating the life considering what might have happened had he The Two Heirs his eyes, on 18 December, 1863, not even the route that would lead to him dying on an anonymous At the time, Sarajevo was within the orbit meanwhile, had been born into the chilly air Not that being enemies meant the empires were relative peace that had allowed Ferdinand's and boring. was as staid and conservative as a church a Bourbon princess who'd done nothing of Yet, for all their dull respectability, the Karl Ludwig was the brother was Franz Josef, Not that baby Franz Ferdinand got much out Since Franz Josef already had a son - Rudolf would ever become emperor himself. third in line. was kept away from the corridors of power, Habsburg upbringing of God, army, and duty. so utterly average that there's very little Perhaps the only way the boy diverged from for botany. and uniforms, Franz Ferdinand found an unlikely From early childhood, it's said that he gently pressing a rose between the pages of Still, it's not like Ferdinand's horticultural He really did value guns and uniforms, and The same cannot be said for Rudolf. Prince Rudolf had been born on August 21, For Franz Josef, the arrival of a viable heir he'd made Rudolf commander of an entire No word on how the previous commander felt baby. enjoy his military upbringing, Rudolf had From a young age, Rudolf had been pushed off Count Leopold Gondrecourt. you had as a kid, pumped up on 19th Century to do whatever he liked to Rudolf. for hours in the depths of the Austrian winter. of the night to wake him up. Franz Josef refused to fire Gondrecourt, believing up. to leave the royal household if Gondrecourt But by then, the damage had already been done. recover from the hard years he spent in the It were these mental scars that would soon Turning Points into very different people. had become exactly the sort of man the newly-reorganized out. a year. the ranks, ready to serve his country. a newfound passion for the masculine sport And no-one hunted quite like Franz Ferdinand. army uniform then Ferdinand was more than over a quarter of a million animals in his But, despite the outward success of Ferdinand's all the rough edges. temper. what he wanted. But whereas most rich people sulked openly, for days on end. avoid him like most of us would avoid a pedophile Still, at least Franz Ferdiand was broadly The same can't be said for Rudolf. kicked out on his sadistic backside, Ferdinand's He'd become melancholic. Alcoholic. Other even dreamed of. intellectually sharpened. Empire was home to a kaleidoscope of ethnicities. Croats. Slovenes. Serbs. Romanians. Ukrainians. represented at the top. While that had been so viable in a Europe now brimming with nationalism. reform things. "do nothing and hope for the best." of demands for autonomy as he was of his heir's But rather than talk about it, Franz Josef to Princess Sophie of Belgium, a woman so Frustrated at court, stuck with a wife he his abusive childhood, Rudolf began to drift Interestingly, it was around this time that In the mid-1880s, the third in line to the lung disease that killed many in the 19th But things were worse for Rudolf. that could be understood, Rudolf's disease his family didn't even try to understand. On January 30, 1889, Rudolf - now extremely Mary Vetsera, to his hunting lodge Mayerling. Rudolf shot her through the head before turning The bullet that passed through Rudolf's It ended Franz Josef's line, extinguishing It was a moment when history trembled, then Poor Franz Ferdinand didn't know it yet, on a path to his own, equally-violent destiny. Of all the unintended consequences of Rudolf's likely the most unintended of all. to the throne. After Rudolf decided to decorate skull, the succession passed to Ferdinand's But Karl wasn't interested. Within days, And just like that, Franz Ferdinand - hot-headed, the future emperor. like being forced to swallow a pint of freshly-squeezed Franzes Ferdinand and Josef did not get on. emotion to anyone but his beloved wife Sisi. Well, let's just say the sulking and the Even though Karl Ludwig abdicated his claim, heir. him unfit to be emperor, that he might die So, in 1892, Franz Ferdinand set off for warmer lungs. the world, seeing the sights, taking the air... Ferdinand shot kangaroos in Australia, tigers When he returned in 1894, he actually brought him. nephew's hobby was "mass murder." wildlife, it had been good for Franz Ferdinand's The heir returned revitalized, better than the empire than he was attending balls in It was here that the stuffy archduke met Countess In the entire history of Franz Ferdinand's him fondly. He was too quick to anger, too The one exception was Sophie Chotek. a side in this gruff, unlikeable man that Respectful. Ferdinand ever found to one of his flowers. things he otherwise never experienced. Sophie may have been rich, but she was a mere just wasn't posh enough. his new heir away. Just as he'd once pushed Unlike Rudolf, though, Franz Ferdinand was All through that miserable decade, the heir He argued with him as Karl Ludwig succumbed by an assassin in Geneva. After years of cajoling, Pope Leo XIII, Kaiser to Franz Josef on Ferdiand's behalf. of his closest allied nation, and the head allied with all appealing to him, Franz Josef The emperor allowed Ferdinand and Sophie Chotek Before he could tie the knot, Franz Ferdinand children from the line of succession, and It was a high price to pay. But it was also get. Reluctantly, he agreed. that moment, the multiverse branched yet again, from survival. his obstinacy had just doomed them all. "Those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat been attributed to just about everybody. Austria-Hungary, it is absolutely something Having contributed to Rudolf's breakdown to marry someone he had nothing in common on his heir. Chotek had been a personal insult to Franz ignore Ferdinand's new wife. away from the business of government, castrating Rudolf had tried to reform the empire, but about to suffer the same fate. his heirs? There's a lot of debate about to the throne when he was just 18, and simply guidance, needed teaching. footsteps and modernize the empire, he got blanked him. of the 20th Century - Franz Ferdiand was the Empire together. with the the issue of nationalism in the multi-ethnic But while Rudolf had tried to implement minor whole system. the empire into a United States of Austria, Croats, and Serbs) to joint-ruler status alongside But don't go thinking Ferdinand was a Rudolf-style The man was a reactionary conservative who that hot on Jews, and thought Austria had He was, in short, a very unpleasant dude. They can sometimes do the right thing for Franz Ferdinad's plans for liberalizing giving each nationality more autonomy may it was the only way to keep his family in for millions. that a reformed, federal Austria-Hungary would've But we'll never know for sure, because Franz In the court, these stifled reforms turned It was whispered in Vienna that the heir was had caught up with him. But even this insanely unpopular man wasn't In the mid-1900s, Ferdinand and Sophie abruptly They retired to their home of Konopiste down to a life of domestic bliss. couple had three children; and Franz Ferdinand creating one of the world's largest rose In another time, in another place, that might happy mother, and Ferdinand quietly pressing empire forgotten. a tinderbox less than a decade away from exploding. be no peace. The wheels were already in motion. Death in Sarajevo and his wife Sophie disembarked from a train into an open-topped car. the center of the city was lower than usual. the river the archduke should've been looking It was the crowds. Cabrinovic and Gavrilo Princip waited, anonymous In their pockets of their heavy coats sat lay cyanide capsules. the heir of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. back Father Time's videotape. of the decaying Ottoman Empire? birth, in 1878, the Ottoman Empire had completely its territories. had marched, taking over Bosnia on the strict keep the region from imploding. ever leaving. In 1908, they'd officially virtually unnoticed, it had caused a European An outraged Russia had permanently turned Serbs had declared the empire their mortal And now Cabrinovic and Princip were determined Interestingly, they nearly didn't get their The night before, Franz Ferdinand had had Sarajevo. and these semi-unofficial trips with minimal Sophie to go on. the half-dry river in Sarajevo, blissfully As the car roared past the Latin Bridge, Cabrinovic But the bomb bounced off the car and hit the In panic, Cabrinovic forgot his gun and tried ...only to land on the dried-out bank, missing As Gavrilo Princip watched in a daze, the motored away at speed. He'd failed. What came next was like something out of a The car carrying Ferdiand and Sophie stopped than focus on getting the hell away from Sarajevo, Once the ceremony was over, Franz Ferdinand check on the wounded. said: when he went out he would certainly be killed." back in the car. No-one told the driver to were waiting. Sophie headed back towards the Latin Bridge, shock, unable to believe he'd missed his One can only wonder how he felt when he saw target going round a shooting-range carousel, It was a shot Princip gladly took. instantly. The second thudded into Franz Ferdinand's red. away from the scene. Sophie Chotek, whispering in her lifeless "Sophie, Sophie, don't die! Stay alive As the blood seeped through Ferdinand's "It's nothing," the heir said, irritable Those were the last words Franz Ferdinand As news broke that evening that the heir to Europe plunged into a state of shock. In every what it might mean. If it even meant anything. This was old Europe's 9/11, the moment that In just over one month's time, the entire The Long March to War that hot June day, his story didn't. intelligence reported the attack had been nearly invaded that same week. prevented WWI. Sympathy initially lay with seen as justified. had to be consulted first. And both capitals by which point Russia was reasserting its In Vienna, Emperor Franz Josef agonized over He'd now lost his second heir in a violent, suicide, this time there was a physical enemy, By July, the drumbeat of war echoing over Josef officially signed a document declaring same day. It wasn't until Russia began to mobilize of no return. Germans, who in turn began mobilizing against The French then got double scared and began to the German decision to attack France first into the war. up to a chain reaction that couldn't be By August, Europe was at war. It wouldn't the Ottoman Empire, and Tsarist Russia had Not that Franz Josef lived to see it. the war. looked back on both Rudolf and Franz Ferdinand, reforms might've saved his empire. history as anything other than the trigger That year, a huge statue of him was unveiled It was a heartfelt tribute from the city's After WWI ended and Austria collapsed, the Yugoslavia, it was replaced by monuments celebrating assassin, Gavrilo Princip. forgotten. the history books assured. person, but a symbol. A single image of a car, seconds before his death shattered an His face and name may remain, but his soul It's said that some men are born to greatness, The life of Franz Ferdinand belongs to another, not great, or even particularly notable, but world. to love. But Franz Ferdinand was also a human Next time November rolls around and you see the accidental heir. For the man who, in death,