(upbeat music) - This video is sponsored (upbeat music continues) I thought we'd settled this. Right. Me and Mehdi from ElectroBOOM released two videos simultaneously with different explanations before it goes down when it leaves a pot, after which it seemed that than with me, so I released a follow-up video after which it seemed that But did it convince Mehdi? - I watched Steve's video and I thought, damn, I But then I quickly I was just mesmerized with his blue eyes and soothing voice. - This is Mehdi's followup And it seems as if now more So, I'm back, and it'll be settled and by my explanation. But more importantly, hopefully, Mehdi will be persuaded so that we can finally and I can finally earn I recommend you watch those past videos. If you haven't already, there's a link to the but you don't have to, I'll summarize here. I believe that for the chain there needs to be an additional But Mehdi doesn't believe that additional force is required. My understanding of the phenomenon is based on Biggins and I'll leave a link to their but the basic principle is that there is some kind of That is to say as the there is some mechanism by against the pile of chain in the pot or against the pot itself and we know that every action has an equal and opposite reaction, so if the chain is then the pot is kicking against the chain, and it's that force that It may be that there for this kickback force, but I suspect the dominant Due to the fact that the it can only be bent to a certain point. It has a minimum radius of curvature. So as the chain leaves the pot, this rigid section pivots causing that downward and actually in the absence you see part of the chain move down. You can see it in this simulation here. And you can see it in this where the chain is spaced out. You see the levering to move down a little. When the chain is bunched up, you can see that that kickback force causes the pile of chain to recoil. In Mehdi's first video, he showed that a chain fountain can arise in this horizontal version of the test with spaced out chain. And of course with spaced out chain, there's nothing for the as it's leaving the pile. But I argued that this isn't because the peak of the The fact that the distance and the peak is increasing is just because the pile What's interesting is that that I made in the first video, the peak of the chain shouldn't recede at all. Like in the absence of the kickback force, the peak should stay where it is. So why does it drop? Well, actually, if you look we only expect the shape to stay fixed, in other words, for the chain without the shape changing, if the chain is moving in steady state, in other words, if the chain and there are no external So actually we do expect the fountain to recede for two reasons. In the beginning, as the chain well, it's not a constant speed, so we expect the chain to recede then. So we expect the arc not to We expect it to recede. But even once the chain we still need to think about friction. I suspect that friction will So it's my belief that for there needs to be an to overcome friction. And at the very beginning of the test that force is needed to overcome we expect due to the fact that the chain isn't yet moving at a constant speed. In my follow-up video, I with the bunched up case. And, look, in the bunched up case you can see that the peak whereas it doesn't in the spaced out case. Mehdi was quite critical as you can see from this clip. And I actually think he has a point. I think we actually disagree slightly on why my test was bad. Look, let me summarize In my comparison, the bar for success is set higher for the spaced out chain than for the bunched up chain. If we're saying that the fountain needs to overcome friction, well look, the distance is greater in the space out case, so there's more friction And clearly that's not fair. Mehdi thinks that this his view of how the chain fountain works. Obviously we disagree on that, but one thing we can agree on, I think, is the fact that there are in this comparison. I've changed too many things. In science if you wanna test how one thing affects the other, then you should only really and keep everything else the same. But I haven't done that here. In one case there's a kickback force and in the other case there isn't, but actually in one case, the pile recedes more And so it's not a fair comparison. So what about this setup where the spacing between the chains is the same in both tests? 'Cause I've got these steps here and the distance between the steps is the same in both cases. But look, in one case, against the riser of each step, and in the other case, it's up against the edge of each step. So look, in the left-hand case, there's something for the and in the right hand case, there isn't. But in every other respect, I think it's the same. And look, in the case where the chain is at the edge of the step and there's nothing we see once again that the But in the case where there is something for the chain to push against, we see that the fountain actually rises. It's interesting that in the case where there's nothing to push against the peak of the fountain recedes but only to begin with. Towards the end of the the peak of the fountain stops receding. And I think I can make sense of that. In the beginning as the chain speeds up, we expect the fountain to the chain isn't in steady state anymore, but once the chain is in steady state, we would expect the chain if it weren't for friction. And because of this step setup, we've removed friction from the ground because the chain is essentially at this point. And having removed what I imagine is the main source of friction, rubbing against the ground, the peak seems to stay where it is. I also had a look at the effect of damping the kickback force. But first, here's a quick I've got this friend who sends and he says, &quot;Don't worry about &quot;It's a good video, I promise.&quot; And he's always right And I wish that would happen more often. If you feel that way, then you should check out Curiosity Stream. It's like Netflix for nerds, basically. They've got thousands on topics like science, history, travel, loads of things. I've just finished watching their &quot;Engineering the Future&quot; series and it's really good. Actually, their exclusives and But the point is they're They're curated by people It's a bit like that Of course the service is but it's also now The promo on this one is really good. If you use my special URL, you get a whole year for just $14.99. The link is also in the description. So check out Curiosity Stream today. In Mehdi's most recent video, he suggests that the from a tray may be inconclusive because even with proper metal bead chain, there seems to be no fountain, but actually that's not true. Look, in this test the chain The fabric is there so we but this time with some underneath the fabric. This stuffing should And actually, look, that's what we see, the chain fountain doesn't rise as much. These two tests to me are quite convincing that a kickback force is required. A lot of people suggested this extra force from the pot. If I put the pot on scales, then the kickback force from the chain should push down on the scales and the weight reading from the scales should be greater than we would expect. So you could film it and so you know how much but from the marks on the beads, you know how much it should weigh, and you look at the reading and you see what it actually does weigh and that should tell you the extra force. I actually mentioned in the first video, that that's difficult from an Getting scales that are fast But then I thought to myself, you know what, actually, So this is an extremely It samples a thousand times per second, which should be fast enough. Actually though, the issue is The readout seems to and every time the readout refreshes it's changed by about Based on my explanation, we actually only expect an of about 0.1 Newtons. That's for a chain fountain I'll get into the derivation But the point is every it changes by an amount that than the extra force required for the chain fountain to Even worse, there's a delay in the readout of about half a second. I mean maybe if I spent even one that has a USB out that just spits out every one of those thousand then maybe I could get something. But even then I have to and lining it up with and all that sort of stuff. Basically, it's a really hard problem. But what I can do is use the force gauge in the horizontal experiment and get a reading just at the very end. Here we get a maximum and that's certainly In fact, if you look at this where the chain is presumably going at roughly the same speed because it's also powered by the drill, we get a chain of fountain height of, what, a maximum of one meter. And according to my theory, actually Biggins and Warner's theory, a chain fountain a meter high of about 0.3 Newtons, which correlates really well with the readout we got in this test. But where does that number come from? Why does a chain fountain of an extra force from the Well, I won't go into the derivation, but using the equations from you get that the extra is equal to that linear multiplied by the height of the fountain multiplied by g. In other words, the weight And that makes intuitive sense. If you want to lift a chain that high, you have to work against its weight. One meter of this chain has a That's a weight of about 0.3 Newtons. And so according to that's the force required from the pot to raise a chain fountain of one meter. It's also why a chain requires about 0.1 Newtons In Mehdi's followup video, he mentions that no one has yet explained why the maximum velocity is quite low, or at least it's low compared to the terminal if it was just falling through the sky. - Steve hasn't provided any other reason for this constant speed like it's nothing. - Actually, it's quite easy to explain, and it has nothing to do It's possible to derive the maximum speed of any whether there's a fountain effect or not. Consider the setup where there's already a long piece of chain dangling. That length of chain feels a but there's another force The force is provided by that is being pulled from the pile. In other words, the being pulled into motion. And that makes sense. We tend to think of force and that's true, but force is also just the So the fact that momentum is that is pulled from the pile, that requires a force. And that force is provided by the chain being pulled down by gravity. In the beginning those so the chain accelerates. But as the chain increases in speed, every new bit of chain is imparted with more and more momentum because it's leaving And so the inertia of the a greater and greater opposing force to the chain falling under gravity. Eventually, at a certain speed, the force required to bring the chain from the pile to that speed matches the force of gravity pulling And that is the maximum It falls out of the math that that speed is equal to the square root of the height of the chain Towards the end of he shows this brilliant of a chain fountain rising from a chain that is draped over a rod. And that's really remarkable because clearly there's a chain fountain, and clearly, to me at least, So this shows a chain fountain So does this prove me wrong? Well, as you might imagine, I think that for the there needs to be an or in this case, there needs to be an In the case of a chain rising from a pot, I think that force mostly comes which I talked about earlier. If you want more details I talk about it more in But in the case of the rod, I think there is still an extra force. But I don't think it's I think it's from, well, if I had to give it a name, I would say the pulley mechanism. This is just my first But look what happens here This loop also moves up. And that makes intuitive sense that's the behavior that we would expect, but as we've seen before, eventually the chain will as well as the loop moving up. Like here when I pull on the loop moves up, but also the chain starts Let's lay this out on the floor so we can see what's going So imagine this is up and this is down. Here is the pipe. So initially as this chain is but then it starts to flow So this bit of chain starts to pull down. Obviously, if this point wasn't here, then you would get the This loop would recede as But it can't because So the rod feels an from the chain. And every action has an so the rod pushes back up on the chain. And what's great is you Look, this bit of chain here before it's even that bit of it's already moving upwards a bit. And this additional outward And so the chain fountain grows. You might say, well, hold on, the force pulling on this bit of chain isn't coming from the rod. It's coming from this bit of chain. And there's a sense in which that's right. This downward force is being redirected into an upward force on this bit of chain. But you can't just redirect a force. In mechanics, all the A downward force can't just In other words, it's the that does the redirecting. And if you studied dynamic that's the kind of balancing you would do. And so I believe that the force from the rod, then the fountain would disappear. You can remove the force from but as in previous videos, you can't do that on earth because it would all just It's another good to do on the international space station. But in the absence of that, we can once again run a simulation. It's interesting that Mehdi didn't mention the simulations in my previous video in his most recent video. Why didn't you mention Mm? Why didn't you mention the simulations? With the rod in place, the simulation does indeed But look, when you remove the rod, but also turn off gravity the fountain disappears. Thanks again to Maarten And that's it for this video. Was it enough to convince you? More importantly, was it It all makes sense Mehdi. It all makes sense. Trying to figure out the explanation for a phenomenon in this adversarial way has been really enlightening. Like with that horizontal comparison tests that I was doing with the space up chain and the bunched up chain, I thought that was good. And it's important in science to try and look for the And I thought I was good at that, for looking for my own mistakes. But, clearly, I'm just not as motivated to find mistakes in And that's thanks to the adversarial way that we're doing it. So that's a really good lesson that I've learned from Mehdi and of course I've learnt mostly about electrical engineering from Mehdi's channel ElectroBoom. I'm sure by now you've checked it out, but if you haven't, you really must. His videos are great. The link is in the description, but it's also on screen now. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, don't forget to hit subscribe. And the algorithm thinks that (upbeat music)