And we were just discussing their case. it's AI and it's bringing it together world. of one in particular and also how the Yeah, look. example. company. think about them as Photoshop, but now professionals that are trying to go and They want to know what are our customers How do we give them better capabilities, customers? bring together and then figure out how things from regular analytics to kind of That's a lot of work to stitch that We could do that for you end to end help capabilities that you didn't have Cheaper and faster that you did. globally who are doing that. years now because you're established in But how do you think the introduction of changed your business? of the kinds of things you can do, even things besides large language models? I think the, you know, the bad joke that the AI company. screen the data part and whisper AI thing. screaming AI, and we're like, don't So I think what's happened is, you know, people data and the eye was important. I move faster on this? People understand AI is critical, data Without good data, you don't really have And so the demand of people saying, how What are the best practices, what are We've seen a huge accelerant as a result And so do you think, though, that focus it, is that what sort of compelled you the market? before kind of lems or generative. But I think that the key part is we are, jokingly are Berkeley hippies. write open standards, giving people And one of the things we saw initially was you kept hearing about these large but we thought the future had to be open People could customize it, people could costs and the like. put out models so that there was a And it's been great to see. have other ones like Mistral and Medha So there's a lot of now choice and I core of the future going forward. make that searching for proprietary amount of parameters that you're setting Is that something that sort of the Because it seems like really we don't don't have the energy power as well to proprietary models. know, we get enamored with simple And the latest one is how many You have 500 billion parameters. Honestly, reminds me of the old days faster Pentium chip for your computer. And even if you look at many of these trillion parameters underneath, there that you're picking for it. organizations go to this model where for my actual need that I can use. about how fast can I answer questions are very general purpose. very, very expensive, not just to train And I think that's prohibitive for a lot So state of the art, you know, do we drive down those costs and are much more accurate than maybe some cases. Databricks. billion mark. Well, we're a private company, so, you That was the valuation at our last When was that That's a good question. little bit less than a year ago at this We always get asked when we're going I think what we like to say we're that round, we made a certain set of we're going to grow. targets but exceed those targets. the business is. What would be the timeline for that? We get asked that on a regular basis. of those companies who plans to be And I think we plan to be, you know, But we're also under no pressure. get access to liquidity? That isn't a real challenge for us. GPUs in our labs, being private has leapfrog many others. we're public. rush to do so. soon means? You this year, but very honestly, it's one like secret master plan on the wall and We said when the timing is right, but drive the business. And you have seen really strong revenue Are you at the point where you're you're So I think seeing us as a company, we're efficient. part is when you look at some of the and analysts, we're still basically Year over year. And they are there's pretty much no to those kind of growth in numbers and So I think that that's why we talk with state of the company and we think we're What's next and what are the new growth particular? headcount? you're looking at for that? down growth. particularly on the R&amp;D side, because we machine and on the go to market side much coverage. growing region for us. can in terms of headcount across the From a growth perspective, we continue capabilities. warehousing as an area we had just been a data warehouse. They are in that area and we keep adding And the nice part is we don't have any couple of set of customers. customers, we're still a relatively So we're not close to saturation. customers and even our existing So lots of room for growth.