Welcome back to the Gentleman's Gazette! Today's video, I discuss the differences between an expensive $500 bespoke suit. So, what now? Looks pretty good, doesn't it? Well, it's the $500 online custom suit. While it looks great while I stand, as soon anymore. It looks terrible and feels uncomfortable. For example, if I just want to eat, it pulls My collar gaps and I can't move, I have a It's a perfect example of a $500 custom suit when I stand but it's non-functional and I'd So, what are the other differences? Let's go step by step. I thought I could do a video on the other switch. $500 custom suits have become very popular supply chain management. It's very easy to order something online just in the mail four weeks after. On the other hand, a traditional bespoke suit So what's the difference? First, let's take a look at the order process. A $5000 bespoke suit is something that you that means it's an in-person relationship; at how you move. They have a very educated eye, they could a bigger thigh, and they confirm their assumptions, take. Once you've picked out all the fabric, the start to work on your suit. But he doesn't just create it, he first, has a second fitting, and a third fitting. These fittings ensure that you get a great once you put on the garment and you can't Depending on the tailor you choose, it can get your suit, as it also depends on how many have, and how many orders they have to process. You can get bespoke suits for as little as as it is for $5000 suits. The difference of the $5000 suit is that you Usually, these high-end bespoke tailors are their style, and that's part of what you buy. Because you're the customer, you don't have Unless you're not a 100% happy with the suit, Bespoke suits are very popular; they come of men travel to those destinations to have The problem is, that's an additional cost, to get it right, especially if more fittings So keep it into consideration when you decide city. For a $500 custom suit, usually, you have it online, there's no personal relationship. Sure, you may be able to ask questions or you have to find an untrained friend or acquaintance on their videos to work. Sometimes, they also promise that you just you hold up, and then their algorithm determines simply because it's too far off. Big department stores, they sometimes offer good in theory, it never really dominated 100%. A human eye and an understanding of what a can translate into a machine measurement. The turnaround time for these suits is usually Usually, they're sewn together in Asia because All you do is take your measurements, put you get a suit back. No fittings involved, no real trained tailor and help you, and that's why you pay a lower If you have an unusual body shhape or strong, one side to the other, the $500 custom suit a $5000 bespoke suit easily do that because just so it looks perfect on you. Next up, let's talk about the difference in Huge difference between a $500 suit and a A $500 custom suit has a made to measure pattern. If you want to learn more about the term, What happens is that a standard pattern is so it supposedly fits you better. The entire process of the pattern making is measurements, so of the measurements are off, Oftentimes, these suits are very slim and saw before, as you can see here, it's really move in your suit because it's so uncomfortable. A $5000 is based on a paper pattern that is for you and it will really show in the final Not only will it look great, but you will you can eat, you can ask for a cab, and everything The third difference is construction and details. Basically, you can have a suit with a glued that is a mix between the two. To learn more about the differences, please $100 suit. A $500 custom suit, will usually either have but usually, never fully sewn interlining. On the other hand, a $5000 bespoke suit is if you want a stiffer canvas or a soft one. A $500 suit is just one thing fits it all Now, when it comes to details, a $5000 suit You can see that on the buttonhole, it's handmade, even on the sleeves. and the linings, the little details on the garment. Moreover, a $5000 suit is usually padded by can see irregular stitches made by hand. In this case, it shows that there is soft more like a sweater. On the other hand, a $500 suit will not have Even if it's a full or half canvas construction, The same is true for things like the pick very subtle on a bespoke garment, you can suit, it's usually a machine made stitch, isn't. Years ago, only bespoke garments had surgeon on your jacket. Today, online custom makers have copied that whether you have a quality garment or an inexpensive, Another huge difference between the two is An inexpensive or cheap suit will only have Usually, they're made in Asia, even if they They're usually thin, flimsy, and just the patterns. On the other hand, a bespoke tailor will usually want; they may even have vintage fabrics, that make your suits special and ideally suited So at the end of the day, you really get what A $5000 bespoke suit gives you a great fabric on a trained tailors eye, on the other hand, of the price but you'll have to usually compromise It's often not as comfortable, the fabric as well. So you simply have to decide what works best That being said, I have a mix of everything I've some made to measure items and some bespoke It's just important to be aware that a $500 suit. If you enjoyed this video, make sure to check best way to do it is to sign up thru our email