Is there external reality? Of course there's an external reality. The world exists. It's just that we don't see it as it is. We can never see it as it is. In fact it's even useful And the reason is because to that physical world other And because our senses of that world, we can never know whether our perceptions are in any way accurate. It's not so much do we that it really is, but do we actually even see it accurately? And the answer is no, we don't. However paradoxical it sounds, if we think of what is to the eyes, we see much Let me give you an example. I walk into a room and and imagine it's graffiti I look at it, I flush, I'm outraged, I'm taken aback. Of course, if I didn't know the language in which it was written, the same retinal events and the same events in without any corresponding reaction. Much more shows up for us into our nervous system. Our senses are also making up the tastes, odors and colors that we experience. They're not properties They're actually properties of our senses that they're fabricating. By objective reality I mean, what most physicists would mean, and that is that something if it would continue to exist, even if there were no Colors, odors, tastes in that sense of objective reality. They are real in a different sense. They're real experiences. Your headache is a real experience, even though it could not exist So it exists in a different way than the objective reality We always assume that our So it was quite a stunning that it's not just that are the fabrications of our senses and are not objectively real. Space-time itself, and Objects, electrons, corks, the sun, the moon, their shapes, their all of these physical properties Sometimes it's really difficult that the data that your brain is receiving is meaningless because they look around, they say, What do you mean it's meaningless?&quot; A really simple example is color. Scientific knowledge of that our natural perception The human perception of by the principles of quantum mechanics. It's interesting to compare to the perception of sound. When you have two pure tones together, like a C and a G a simple If you hear that, you can even though they're played you can also sense the separate tones. Whereas with colors, if you say spectral green and What you see is not a chord identities preserved, but In fact, you'll see something It's as if in music, when you play to the C and a G together, instead of hearing a chord, you just heard the note So at this most basic level, we don't represent even the in any accurate way. And the reason is because it So what are you seeing not the data. Evolution by natural with perceptions that are So if I see a snake, don't pick it up. If I see a cliff, don't jump off. If I see a train don't we have to take our perceptions seriously, but that does not entitle Perception itself. A perspective on something is inherently a reduction of My perspective of it is gonna be a lot less total information I can look at the object or the west side or the or the inside, microscopically, they'll all give me different information. None will give me the about the situation. So there is no all that gives me all of the information about almost any situation. What this means is that reality itself is transperspectival. It can't be captured in any perspective. So multiple perspectives have to be taken. All of which will have some signal. There may also be distortion. I may be looking at the or through a colored lens Why does this matter? The ability to take multiple perspectives, to see the partial truth in them, and then to be able to seam that isn't a perspective it's to hold the relationships in a way that can inform our choice-making is fundamental to navigating reality well. How is it that we make claims of truth? And how would we begin is true is actually true. This is the beginning of Let us begin with figure out what the hypothesis would be that would answer a particular question, and then figure out how we would begin to address the hypothesis. That is a scientific approach to questions that could be addressed There is a kind of whispering campaign against the value of objective truth. Science's belief in objective truth works. Engineering technology of objective truth, achieves results. It manages to build planes It manages to send people to the moon and explore Mars with Science works, science vaccines that work. So anybody who chooses to say, &quot;Oh, there's no such thing as objective truth. It's all subjective, it's Tell that to a doctor, tell manifestly science works, and the view that there is no such thing as objective truth doesn't. When you write down the theory, the theory then becomes your teacher. It becomes smarter than you in a way. When Einstein wrote down the equations of general relativity, he did not know that they entailed the existence of black holes. In that sense, the equations Einstein didn't believe in The equations were very Einstein said no. Turned out Einstein was wrong So it's very interesting. We do these theories because When you try to address you may find that asking requires different ways of processing the underlying reality. For instance, in to understand that physically requires one kind of processing. And there's every reason to think that we already have that are adequate to But to understand how a person works, how thought processes, add up to a personality and a human actor will require quite different and quite different ways of processing the underlying information structure.