This is the Isaac lab that Nvidia built to torture is when you might start getting confused. simulate tons of events in order I've done a little bit of this myself. But I'm also incredibly &quot;(Announcer) welcome to the stage This is one of the most valuable companies in the compared to the other big tech companies. Amazon: they send me the Google: they answer big questions. But Nvidia does...video games? Maybe &quot;CED&quot; &quot;Humanoid robot called Thor.&quot; I have spent the past month learning why Nvidia I want you to take all the techno-jargon just three words that you can use as lenses to &quot;Thank you.&quot; &quot;(Announcer)In our silicon integrated circuit...&quot; making the things. compan,y so scenes like this...they're, well, After all, the &quot;Silicon&quot; in Silicon stuff like a &quot;diamond point inscribing.&quot; for actually saying &quot;real men have fabs.&quot; advanced manufacturing environment...&quot; 1997 commercial for Intel: crazy suits, super But that's just, you know, the commercial. But around the 1980s, a new fabless model Companies designed chips they go into out. These TSMCphotos from today show foundries are a new path for the chip industry. Jose to found a fabless company. Originally, Nvidia is what they come up with: it's &quot;NV&quot; envious. You can see that the naming issues are now, he's the guy that you need to know today. mathematics. (Awkward silence before applause)&quot; more complicated and they wanted to build into your computer to supercharge 3D images. point hey what is Nvidia doing during all this, that? That is why I want to show you a chip. technical. (Giggles childishly) I had not looked only looked at like pieces of paper before. incredibly complex. single grain of salt on this chip and you get On the Nvidia side, they have to have a perfect And we're talking about something than what they do with silicon chips. it lets each side do their job, though that But I think this sets the orientation for In the late '90s, Nvidia was even running They emulated the chip in a computer -- they it without seeing the final copy in person. also got them far ahead in their production cycle. This was beneficial, because the cost Eventually, those economics meant the industry its pride and spun-off chip companies. software that will help them make better chips. one of the most important applications that chips. We have to push lithography to the limit.&quot; &quot;I received my PhD from Stanford in 2004.&quot; YouTube channel and this &quot;Basically my research at Stanford was looking at to understand how we could use these processors In 1999, Nvidia started saying graphics processing units. Cousins to CPUs. A CPU does complex problems in order. solve simpler problems in parallel. You can There are lots of individual pixels on a that it might be good for other stuff. CUDA was originally compute unified device you'll see that it was this niche thing in &quot;We're really interested in seeing if we can But Nvidia knew the potential In their 2007 annual report, they said...am think I'm just going to hold these the With CUDA enabled GPUs, engineers and scientists to solve mathematically intensive problems The idea is that they will let anybody get really you just have to do it on Nvidia GPUs. Imagine the iMessage blue bubble green bubble and more efficiently. That is kind of like CUDA. Just look at this list of vocabulary But we are talking everything from partners By their 2012 annual report, Nvidia was more common and it continues today. But it's what else happens in that Year know --that makes the difference. Nvidia is fabless, it is CUDA, and it is ALEXNET. AiIand there's a reason for that. Nvidia went from this kind of party: &quot;Oh hell no.&quot; have arrived at a developers conference. In the The idea was to have computers In 2012, a program known as ALEXNET named written using a very efficient GPU This had been done a bit before, but that GPUs could make AI a big big thing. to the development and the acceleration underneath every single one of them. you got more AI. pretty quickly that the AI race was on. &quot;Our strategy is to accelerate deep for every market for every single industry.&quot; data transmission, to string Nvidia is all about making really good big GPUs other really really really quickly. way back in 2016, way before a lot of the The Crypto boom, a similarly parallel a distraction from their AI obsession. Nvidia became the backbone of that. we will do for you and the industry on But will it work? I mean Nvidia is a long way from being just a really quickly. The bull and the bear case, they CUDA moat and AI even will be in the future. Nvidia's grip on AI through alliances. Fabless in books like Chip War: people are starting making the computer chips the whole world uses. But at the same time, that CUDA moat, it's pretty Nvidia will get a world sized fortune. Industries is represented in this room What I do know is that these three words any of the tricky sci-fi vocabulary on this is just the fabless universe emulating the NIMS in generative workflow are really just using AI like ALEXNET. Even those crazy trained of CUDA and new CUDA like platforms using AI. But you think the future will go. I don't know the &quot;How do I escape this prison...&quot; work for me. (Evil laughter from Circle