There's been one thing that that I want to do before I die And it's this one really specific, I've always wanted to attend You know, like a real proper country affair and cows, and bulls, and barrel riding, that you only get to see And it just so happens that in the town of Polson, And it looks super, super local. So, I'm gonna go and check it out, You can't imagine. I've been in Montana for about a month, and it's becoming It's just so beautiful out here. Eventually, I'll have to But for now this is my spot. I'm super excited about this rodeo, mythical legendary thing Like, that's just what I mean, I know not everybody has even been to a rodeo, but who doesn't love a good cliche? I'm a little bit nervous because what to expect. I don't know what the people will be like, I don't know if they'll be or you know, if people might have I just have no idea Classic. 90% pickup trucks, But I was mostly curious to see One other very important thing. I'm not from here, Maybe this is not the right place I think I'm just gonna One day, when I become I'll wear it to a rodeo. But today is not the day. Let's go. Bye, Odyssey! One ticket, please. So, is this like a thing Every year. Oh really? Wow, lucky me! Thank you. Thanks! Do you have like a program, Thank you, see you. All right, let's take a look inside. Ok, youth mutton... Hang on, wait. I need to sit down for this. This is too interesting. First things first. Can't go in without a snack, of course. Guys, what's like a thing It's my first time at a rodeo, - It's your first rodeo? Cheese fries. Ok. Or nachos? Or nachos. What would you recommend, Cheese fries. I'll take cheese fries. And something to drink, I don't know. Lemonade, we have Mountain Dew, Root beer. That sounds great, thank you. Root beer. I don't think First rodeo, first root beer. Oh, wow. They look different, Yeah, I think they're homemade. Amazing. Thank you! Got my fries, got my root beer, Let's go. I feel like such a tourist. I feel like everybody's watching me, But I'm just gonna go with it. Everybody else is seated. Should have brought the hat. All right, let's take a look at this. So, what's on today? Youth mutton busting... Youth mutton busting? I don't know what that means. Youth mini bull riding, It doesn't mean that it's like, Is that possible? That's what's really dangerous. Ok, let's see. If you look out onto the arena dirt, you'll see our sheep riders I'm amazed. These kids are like four years old With little helmets on, and falling But I totally did not expect this. It's a real sheep. I mean, it didn't really last I'm so impressed. When I got started on some people told me I'd be disappointed, because there isn't Well, I strongly disagree. If you look closely, you can find culture This is most definitely culture. Sure, it may seem mundane to those of you but to a European for example, And yes, I'll use that word again. Exotic. These are pretty good. So, you might be wondering: &quot;What are you? Vegan, vegetarian?&quot;, since I've been talking about it Mostly vegan. If I cook for myself, always vegan. But pizza and cheesy fries, two things I just cannot resist. Once in a while. Oh, my God! So, this is category number two. Kids on bucking horses. Kids on bucking horses. For real. Jeez! Oh, my God! Here we go, let's ride! Oh, my Goood! Here we go, let's ride! Wow, he is holding on. He's still going. Why do they take him down like that? That's how they get safety. Shoot! Right, safety is important. If he stays on for that long does that mean that - Yeah. And then the judges will say his score, Ok. All right, here we go! Here we gooo! And the audience goes wild. She just fell off that horse, got up, That's amazing. I want to be like her when I grow up. Bull riding. They're now about to ride bulls. Little kids. God. Am I the only one in this entire place Am I the only one that finds this I mean, it's cool but it's like... All right, waiting for the first one. Oh, my God, that's an actual bull. It's an actual bull. I can't believe it. Oh, my God. With its horns, you know. It's not a sheep. Oh, my God. I felt like I was alone at what was happening in front of us. I mean, kids on bucking bulls. Don't tell me that's something The more I watch these kids, I don't know if I could do it. I'm so impressed. All of a sudden, And it took me a good minute We ask you Lord Oh, my God! Oh, God. Is he okay? Yeah, he's ok. Yeah, her horse is still bucking, Our white properties pickup men He does not look okay. Really? Oh, really? Oh, my God. Are you not worried for him? Love it. These people are tough. These girls are 12. They have no fear. I mean, nobody here has any fear. So, there's a lot of So, I'm gonna go I think I have a crush Is that weird? Nice! It seems like he got Ok, I think that's enough rodeo fun My first rodeo was amazing. I am just amazed Like, the little girls, the little boys. And you know, all the other people, who just perform It's incredible to see that bond It really does require And a lot of courage. Really happy that I got here. But also, as a vegetarian, because I'm not really sure the animals' perspective. But, I have to say this rodeo It was one of the coolest, I've seen in my life, honestly. And I just wish I could ride like that. Maybe I should. If you're a cowboy can you email me? Because I'd love to learn So, I'm serious. Cowboys, rodeos, bucking bulls. This is exactly what I had wanted And I'm sure as hell P.S. If you're wondering he stayed with a puppy sitter One day, you'll be