It looks like a dinosaur.This is the story of a company that wants people to know the joy of manufacturing in Osaka.We did the plumbing around here.Madokoro Shigehisa, Representative Director of Omine Kiko Co., Ltd.It 's not a rocket or a missile...What on earth is this machine? What is it? Attach this first, then that green one, then that yellow one , then that round one, and finally, the leader of the assembly team is 41-year-old Kobayashi Miyakita and Oya, and the three of them are assembling a huge machine, huh ? Can three people stick together? Do you want to hang something? We will now install the screw conveyor. We will lift and install it . We will use four-point suspensions to place chain blocks to adjust the height. Kobayashi, the work supervisor, will basically be operating the crane. Miyakita and the landlord will be in charge of lifting the suspended load. The landlord , who is in charge of installing equipment and instructing the direction of the suspended load, tells Kobayashi to swing the head of the screw of the suspended load more to the left.In response, Kobayashi lifts the left side of the suspended load upwards, and at the same time moves it to the opposite side. Miyakita, who was there, pulled the load and adjusted the position of the suspended load in this way, and with cooperation, they fit it in. But what exactly is this huge machine? A completely unimaginable tunnel continues for a long time. This area is dirt, right? It's in the mountains. It's a mechanical shield machine used to dig tunnels. It's a huge machine that creates tunnels for highways, subways, and sewers. Can humans fit inside this machine? The person who operates the shield machine, the earthworker who assembles the blocks, and the person who breaks the rock Shigehisa Madoka, CEO of Omine Kiko Co., Ltd. Omine Kiko, located in Osaka City, is a resident contractor at Okumura Machine Manufacturing's main factory, and Kobayashi and his colleagues work there. When their job is to manufacture machines under the supervision of the employee Okumura Kikai, they can get into the narrow spaces between parts. What do they do when they work in high places ? I 'm about to install a screw to remove the sling , so it's held in place by a shackle, so I'm going to remove it.What on earth are they thinking about doing this? Which one should I install next? We took the bolts from the green deck and then we had to dodge the screws that attach the deck for the workers to walk on inside the shield machine and bring it to the top.This machine went into the mountains and underground. Because it is necessary for people to work inside the tunnel, the machine has a lot of equipment, so we try to tilt the deck by pulling the chain block to make the left side of the deck face down. Is it a strategy to sneak in through the gap, but I can't figure it out? Can you do it once? It's not the same, it's different every time, is it a mistake in thinking about the parts? That's right , the dimensions of the shield machine vary because the design drawings are tailored to the tunnel construction each time. Therefore, it is always difficult to install complex shapes. No, it hit the motor. Shall I wrap it up a little and put it back on? Will it be possible to complete the work safely? Did you join the company mid-career before turning 30? That's right, I was supervising the assembly of this on-site.I was working in Tokyo and my hometown is Kansai, so I came back and started working at the factory.The company has a history of about 60 years (10 years) . Previously: When I left my previous company and came here, the chairman was recruiting for a job, and at the time there was a huge requirement that you must have at least 3 years of shield experience and physical strength, so I thought who would want to come to a company like that? Well, there aren't many people who have more than three years of experience in Shield, so when I tried it out, I found out that he was a stoic and strict person, and if he made a mistake, he would thoroughly correct it.I had always followed the chairman like that, and the attitude toward work that my predecessor had...Learning that led me to change jobs. What was the best thing about that? Mr. Madokoro, what do you think about your current president? Not much has changed since I joined the company, it's been about 3 years, but we're not comrades, but we're in different departments, almost rivals, but we've been working in that relationship for a long time, and I think we're colleagues who can relate to that.2022 In April 2017, the second son of the chairman, Shigehisa Madoka, became the third CEO.What I thought of the president was that he would do all the things he didn't like and do the hard things himself. I think it's great that you're working hard in the shadows , and to be honest, I've been working on the numbers, the quality, and the safety, and I 'm always aiming to make something that's good, and work without mistakes and redoing . Are you doing it? On the other hand, these are dinosaur-like chips from parts manufacturing work.Is this shavings? The work of the company where Kobayashi works is to use machines to adjust the steel material to the required size and make parts for the shield machine.The machining team is replacing the tip of Madokoro. If you go all of a sudden, it will be in a rounded shape, so you will go right and left here and there, so you will carve the parts in order starting from the narrowest part.The parts will be joined together using welding, gas, etc., and the parts will become larger.A huge shield machine is made from an assembly of these parts.A plastic model. The final assembly team, including Kobayashi's team, is responsible for assembling the pieces together.The assembly team, which was having a hard time installing the deck for the tunnel construction workers to walk on earlier, is now in charge of the assembly team. I wonder if I can go? OK, I got one.In the end, I dismantled a part of the deck and made it a little smaller, and somehow I was able to attach it to the machine and fit vertically.I'll go with this next.Yellow: What will this be for the shield ? The tunnel will be filled with blocks, and this part is used to maintain its circular shape.The name of this part is ``shape retention.''When digging a tunnel, there is pressure from the earth and sand from outside, so it is necessary to maintain the shape of the tunnel. We're going to need some parts. Here's a great one. This is a one-legged crane. If you lift this with only one leg, it will fall and break, so we'll have to use two cranes to lift it together. We'll do it together while everyone calls out to each other. The team. Work is important, right? Teamwork is everything, right? You can't do it unless you're in harmony.The three of us then went to install the gigantic parts, which were 6m in diameter with a double-double outer circumference.The back was heavier, so two 3-ton machines were mounted straight in front. I want to hang it up, but the upper hoisting device is not in the right position, so I use a chain lock to adjust it, and I do n't want to remove the lever on the outer periphery of the 6m diameter shield machine.The place to hang the crane is on the right, so I just lift it up. What about the tension of the chain that causes the parts to rotate ? So, I adjusted the sling so that the lifting force would be applied more strongly to the right side, and installed the 6m diameter outer circumference, hoping that it would hit that spot with a snap.This is how the day ended.Mr . Sly.Kobayashi and his friends have been doing this job every day for over 10 years. A new face has joined my workplace this summer.Good morning.From today , Mr. Hamada.I saw your Instagram and applied.My name is Hamada.I will be 39 years old this year.Thank you for your continued support.The joy of manufacturing. I want people to know that, especially young people, I think there is a sense of accomplishment in office work, but it's a little less tangible that seeing the products we make work and help us in our daily lives is the so-called 3K. Is it okay to be a craftsman or have no experience in learning new techniques ? I didn't have any experience either, so that's okay.I had no experience when I joined at the age of 29.There are people in their 70s working there even now.I think it's a job where you can get a job for the rest of your life.Have you been working there for a long time? Is it easy to work for about 20 years this year ? We work in a friendly and friendly environment.The assembly team works hard while joking around.The men who make the shield machines Omine Kikou Co., Ltd. (Osaka City)