- Here I have some bacon in You might be thinking, Counterintuitive as that seems, this water is gonna help to this, crisp, tender and beautifully brown. What if I told you that to better browning in food? (Lan Lam crunching) (upbeat music) So there are two types of browning, caramelization and maillard browning. Now, caramelization is are heated past about 300 degrees. They'll start to break down and recombine, forming new compounds. Those compounds contribute and really wonderful aromas. Now, when I say sugars here, I'm not talking about table sugar, but the whole class of sugars that you would find in say, fructose is what sweetens honey and fruit, and lactose is the sugars Sugars are also really In maillard browning, you and amino acids past 300 degrees. Amino acids are the You can think of proteins as just long chains of amino acids. Now, with traditional cooking, if you're sauteing or roasting or frying, it's not actually too hard to or the surface of your unless there's water. Now, what happens when is the water molecules will and use that heat to turn to steam. When they do so, they kind of keep the and on the surface of your And at those temperatures, it's practically That's why with traditional browning, you would see recipes call letting meats air dry in the fridge, and cranking the heat up. So after all of this, why can actually get you better browning? (upbeat music) So, let's take a look where this technique really shines. First up, caramelized onions. Now, traditional caramelized onions, they take a lot of time and patience, and they start with You add your onions to that 20 minutes, there's not a ton going on. The onions will wilt, water comes kind of gushing out of there, and that water keeps the low enough so that you're Once you start to see browning, you need to stir diligently, and that's because you have a and you want them to brown evenly. Recipes for caramelized and they say it takes a I'd expect caramelized an hour 15 minutes to make. And even though you'd be by cranking the heat, you can't do that, that's gonna burn your onions, but let's take a look at what A couple of years ago, I developed a recipe and it starts with a cold skillet, big pile of onions. (onions clattering) And I'm gonna season those and also add a little bit of oil. And the last ingredient, water. Why am I adding water? Well, when I was working I realized that I was waiting for the onions &quot;I bet I can make them wilt faster,&quot; and the way to do that After that water comes to a boil, I actually wanna pop a lid on here to trap all of that steam. What's going on in that water that's grabbed a bunch is gonna land on the When it condenses, that heat gets transferred to the onions. All of this just means that they're cooking, they're wilting, and they'll do that in and I don't have to stir while which is great. So after 10 minutes, I'm The water will have done its job. It'll cook the onions, causing them to wilt And those juices, they're and amino acids we need for browning. I'll then turn the heat so that the onions don't scorch, and I'm gonna stir frequently And after all of that, I'll have caramelized onions (upbeat music) These onions have cooked and they're done. Now, there are a number that promise fast caramelized onions, but when you cut into what they produce, what you find is while the the interior is not, it's but that is not the case here. These onions, they're browned all the way through. They're sweet, delicious. But now, let's have a look at what water can do for another (upbeat music) I was taught a very traditional method for searing mushrooms. You need a lot of heat, and a lot of oil, kind of like searing a steak. What you do is wait for and then you add your shrooms. Now, oil is really important because the surfaces of Coating that surface with oil helps the food make contact with the pan, and the oil actually conducts to help it brown quickly and evenly. Mushrooms like to soak up and they'll pretty much absorb the amount of oil you've got in the pan. As they cook though, and that oil that they've At the same time, you need because you've got the heat cranked up, and you don't want your mushrooms to burn. The end result is spotty Let's see what happens when we add water. A couple years ago I developed a recipe for sauteed mushrooms, and I really love that technique. It uses almost any type The ones you'd wanna avoid or morels, the really tender but something like a maitake the ones I have here, I'm just gonna get them into my skillet. And to that, I'm going to add water, this time a quarter of a cup. (stove clicking) So now I've got the burner set to high, and I want that water to start to boil so that it can cause and collapse and shed their juices. Just like with the onions, what I want is the my starting points for browning, to get out of the Once these start to steam, I'm just gonna stir them as they cook, and it usually takes depending on your mushrooms, This is looking like we're almost there. The mushrooms are already They're flattening, That means that there's not a and that means it's for maillard browning. I'm gonna turn down the heat to make sure that it stays browning and that would be bad, but I also want to add some oil right now. Unlike traditional recipes that call for two tablespoons of oil, And the reason I can get away with half of the teaspoon of oil is one, I'm in a non-stick skillet, so I don't have to worry about sticking, but two, the mushrooms that they can't absorb the oil. It sits on the outside of the shrooms, and helps conduct heat from to help them brown evenly. I'm gonna continue to cook these mushrooms until they are nicely browned, which will take four to eight minutes, and then we will finish (upbeat music) These have great color, it's I'm gonna clear a little so I can cook my aromatics. Because I use such a small I can add a more flavorful fat to kind of round this dish out. I'm using some butter here. Just gonna let that melt. And to that melted butter, These are just to kind of Little bit of salt and pepper, and the reason I'm cooking the shallots in the center of the pan is between all these mushrooms and stay raw, which is not what we wanna bite into. By leaving them in the middle, I can make sure that Now that these have softened, I've got a little vinegar, and a touch of mustard. I just wanna cook them down until the pan feels a little dry, that concentrates the flavor. Next up, some broth. (pan sizzling) And we're almost done, I want to let that broth let its flavor concentrate. And then just to finish this, That's it. Glossy, glazing mushrooms We've seen how water can but it can work wonders with meat as well. (upbeat music) I'm making a chicken gravy today, and chicken gravy's like all gravies, they start with a really intense broth. To make that broth, you and you cook them in a sauce pan. Now, as they cook, juices will And since that pan is they'll start to brown But that browning, it's not uniform. To get really great flavor in your stock, you need a lot of browning. And in order to get that, what you want is to get all of the juices from these scraps to come out immediately before you start to try to brown them, that's where water comes in. I've got the beginnings of and it comes from his recipe Now, because that chicken is butterflied before it's broiled, we and I've cut it up into parts There's no reason to throw it out. I also pulled some scraps of fat and skin that we didn't need on that chicken, and it also came with a neck, so I threw that in here as well. To this pot, I'm adding I'm gonna bring this to Now, these pieces, some of and others are partially submerged. I'm probably gonna give them to help them heat through evenly. As they heat through, their Those juices contain that we want for maillard browning. As this continues to cook, water's gonna evaporate from that pan. By the time that water's all gone, we'll have all of the starting materials for the browning that we want. (upbeat music) of cooking up my aromatics, turning those brown bits into a broth, making a roux of thicken that broth, and from there, it's all gravy. Because I'm making this gravy to go with some broiled chicken, I happen to have drippings and I'm going to incorporate for an extra boost of chickeny flavor. Let's see how it tastes. Wow, that is intense. It's just full of chickeny flavor. It's rich, it's savory. I could probably drink half Let's try it on some chicken. So, everything you see on this plate, these caramelized onions, the sauteed mushrooms and this gravy for our broiled chicken, they got their amazing because I used water for better browning. Enough talking, I'm going to eat. (upbeat music) This gravy is out of control. It's so intense. Like, I'm not a big fan of white meat, but it's perfect on here. That chicken kind of is a These onions are just so jammy and soft. When we started talking I didn't quite realize This is great. After years and years of cooking, it still surprises me that water in how food reacts to how water can even improve browning. Are mushrooms really a vegetable? Maybe not. Fungus? Fungus. Anyway, I love them. (upbeat music) Can you think of any dishes whose browning could be improved by water? Let me know in the comments below, and go to cooksillustrated.com for more great recipes and techniques.