- They say that a picture's and while that's true, that you think when you take a picture, you're not just capturing You're also documenting a including the type of camera and time that the photo was taken, the settings on the camera, Today I'm gonna explain what this data is, why you should even care, and maybe most importantly, what you and I can even do about it. This video is sponsored for privacy focused individuals to erase personal The photo I just took what is known as exif data, for all these data tags. It includes my exact camera model, date and time of the photo, and the exact GPS coordinates. Now, let me be honest here, even though I think the privacy behind the photos we take are that we've fallen in love that exif data makes possible. If you've ever searched for or the year that you remember taking it, you can thank Exif data for that. If you like seeing map or tracing your recent travels again, you can thank Exif data for that. But what happens when Thankfully, sites like Instagram, and others now strip before posting it publicly. But that didn't always And there are plenty of messaging apps, public or even your own personal to remove that personal So if I were to message you to ask for additional photos and then you emailed them directly to me, it's quite possible that to find out which kind of phone you use, which may indicate your as the exact GPS coordinates of your home, and that's a little bit scary. Again, I realize that for and features that Exif data allows for outweigh the privacy But my guess is that most people And I'll explain a few options to remedy this problem in a moment, but first, let's explore algorithmic analysis. Over the past couple decades, we have been training computers to be very good at analyzing photos. In fact, you know all where you're asked to identify or bridges in a grid of photos. While this process is in that you are a human, it's also known that these capture problems to train AI models. To understand the contents I can just type the word of my iPhone photos app and it'll bring up a fairly My beautiful golden retriever, I guess that is a sheep apple, not a dog. But see, that's the thing. I never marked these just like I never mark whenever my wife and son are in a photo. Yet, apple and Google are able to run an algorithmic and facial recognition and make these photos more searchable. And a quick spoiler here. This AI analysis of your photos, at least on an iPhone right So as long as you're and Photos app, your photos This algorithmic analysis is time, and again, while it does allow for helpful search capabilities and arguably pointless to turn my dog into a sticker, I can imagine a time in the not kind of analysis is used to understand your your travel habits, your and so much more. And that's why it's to be careful about how you Why does it matter how we What's crazy is that there are whose business model consists of finding all this personal information, the photos we share, contact that governments make that we don't mean to publish, and selling it. That's why I've used a for the past few years to erase During that time, they've from 150 data brokers, and every month they continue to make legal removal I recognize that putting internet comes with a number of risks, and one of the best ways I as much PII or personally identifiable as I can DeleteMe is the but as a satisfied customer I'm confident that it Visit joinDeleteMe.com/allthingssecured how easy it is to start erasing Right now, Google scans all the photos that you store on their servers. Apple had planned to do that same thing until it faced intense backlash and instead did a 180 to add end-to-end encryption protection feature. Now, if you don't know what learn why I recommend and how to do it in Now, whether you're storing Google a service like Dropbox, or even when you upload your or Instagram, you are handing that exif data that we Now, they may not publish this available on their site, that these data hungry and learning from this data. Now, they claim not to or for advertising purposes, but I really find that hard to believe. I mean, why would they not? It makes sense, and this is where my separation of privacy services Instead of storing your or Google Photos, it's actually possible to choose your own encrypted photo backup that respects your privacy options include services NordLocker, and others. The only problem I've of these services make you instead of syncing your which is really annoying to around here is to create a and to store that in the encrypted drive, and then you have to repeat to make sure that it remains updated. So all this talk about exif data, GPS coordinates algorithmic analysis, and we didn't even begin to to identify geographic location contents of a photo. So what can we as consumers do about it? I want to finish this up by that you can take to build better privacy with your camera and photos. First, consider turning off for your camera app on you can go on the settings app, and security, click on location and then find the camera app. The best option for privacy here is never, but if that's too much for I recommend you choose Ask and then turn off Precise location. Android is very similar. Open the settings app, tap and then set the proper Second, use some kind of If you're an Apple iPhone user, turning on advanced data that optional encryption. If you're on Google, finding is ideal, whichever you choose. It's important to control of your photos and Google and Dropbox simply don't let you do that. Number three, did you know that you can use other camera apps besides the native app I've been testing the which not only locks your it also keeps its own encrypted Even if this seems like you could set it up where phone is set to record all the GPS and personal information and then the Encamera app or something like that the privacy settings. Then when it comes time to take a photo, you can choose based on the situation and how much privacy you need. Finally, be very intentional about how and where you share your photos. For example, when I go to you can see here that that location data will be The way to change that is to and turn off location. Now you'll see that location which makes sharing this photo at least a little bit more safe. Now that you understand how how you take store and share photos, you to understand how to erase your using a service like DeleteMe. Or you can just visit to get 20% off and try it for yourself.