Subtitles in german, english, spanish, french, italien, portuguese, japanese, russian and chinese. My name is Alois Diethelm. I was born in 1945 and have been building tree ladders for 60 years. I have two sons and eight grandchildren. We run a farm here in Sattel. We have a few cows and sheep. In 1963, I got out of school at seventeen and went right to work. I didn't do a vocational apprenticeship and at that time I got a job with Josef Nussbaumer here in Sattel. He had been building ladders for years. I learned the trade from him. In 1968, I was able to take over his business. To build my ladders I need poles from young spruce. The demands on the wood are very high. A ladder is a safety product, so only the best is good enough. The wood must be fine-grained, that is, slow and evenly grown, and contain only a few knots. And, of course, these logs should be as straight as possible. This kind of wood can be found only in small quantities in our country. There was a little in the Mythen forest above Schwyz. But we buy the majority of our wood from the Black Forest. There, the selection is much larger. There are a lot of young spruce forests there, that are also fine-aged and nicely grown. We get enough from there. The first step is to remove the bark from the poles. After that we can better process the log and mark it for planing. The surface becomes smoother and we can plane the wood better afterwards. The longhorn beetle, a wood pest, likes to lay its eggs under the bark. It makes holes in wood, we have to prevent that. After that, the bar goes on the planer. There they are dressed and prepared for splitting. After dressing, we take the bar to the milling machine. We now cut the log in half to make two pieces. These are the two spars. The rungs will later be fitted between these spars to create a ladder. Because we make the ladder from a whole log, this creates optimal stability. A ladder is only as strong as the tree once was. A good tree makes a good ladder. These spruce trees are a natural product. We make the spars directly from this natural product, which results in the high stability of the ladder. After splitting, the two half pieces are planed flat. So that they become as straight as possible and we can process them further. This will make the inner surface straight and even. &quot;Hi honey, could you come and help me drill?&quot; After dressing, the ladder spars are marked so we know where to drill the holes. The distance is always the same. It is 28 centimeters so that the foot always knows where the steps are. My wife helps me with certain jobs. When we drill the ladder, she helps me feed the long spars. This way we can drill and slot the spars optimally. At intervals of five to six rungs, we keep fitting a rib. These define the width of the ladder. Each rib gets one centimeter narrower from bottom to top to give the ladder a tapered design. At the very top, we only install ribs. This minimizes the weakening of the spars. The slots of the ribs remove less wood than the round holes of the rungs. This causes less damage to the top of the spars. In the past, the need for ladders was much greater than today. There were more fruit crops overall and more high stems where long ladders are used. In peak years, we made up to three hundred ladders a year. Today we only make about forty for some good customers. Ladders up to twelve meters in length are required for high trunk trees. Tree ladders are produced in this length from a full length log. The stability comes directly from the trunk. Nature provides the best starting material. For the rungs and ribs we use hardwood. The round rungs are made of elm and the rectangular ribs are made of ash. We use round rungs and upright rungs, called ribs, and install them alternately. This is how the ladder becomes tapered. At the bottom the ladder is wider than the top. It gets continuously narrower by a centimeter with each rib. The rungs are also getting narrower and thanks to this taper, the ladder becomes more manageable and it fits better on the tree. It makes it easier to position on the tree, because a twelve-meter ladder is difficult to position. The center of gravity is lower than if the ladder were parallel. The spruce log is also thicker at the bottom than at the top. This makes the finished ladder heavier at the bottom than at the top. Thanks to a lower center of gravity, this leads to more safety, more stability and better grip. Even in the finishing of the ladders, I can't do certain jobs alone. That's where my wife helps me. When assembling the ladder, my wife guides the rungs while I squeeze the ladder together. This is much easier together than alone. We are a well-coordinated team and we have been doing this work for many years. This is going well. We only need to look at each other and then we know immediately what the other wants. I just like to work. Working is my life's purpose. I can make something useful and durable, with a material that suits me and that I like. At the end, I see a result and my customers tell me, &quot;What a beautiful ladder!&quot; This motivates me to this day. People are happy that something like this is still made and use wooden ladders differently than an industrial product made of aluminum. Beautiful craftsmanship is just a joy and each of my ladder is unique. After squeezing, the rungs protrude. My wife saws them off with the chainsaw. My wife can handle the chainsaw better than I can. She does this quite sensitively. Whether she likes to help, I don't really know, but she always comes back. My wife also helps me with the moulding of the ladder, making half rounds. This machine is not practical to lead alone. We have a kind of moulding machine. We push it over the spars, which makes them half-round. When we switch sides, the other spar also becomes half-round. Half-round spars are easier to hold in later use. This machine needs to be guided precisely. That's why we're doing this together. I set the depth and my wife pushes the machine. &quot;Then I go again&quot;. After moulding, I plane the rough spots with the hand plane. Make them nice. After planing, I sand the ladder. To make the spars nice and half-round. I am fascinated by wood because it is a natural product. It's a living product. Its alive. One can work it well and it makes beautiful things. Whenever I look at my ladders, I see a natural product. Grown in nature. The art of making a beautiful ladder is to work the wood, resulting in good ladder. That's what fascinates me. In the end, I've made something and that gives me satisfaction. Inside, the ladder is chamfered to round off the inner edge. After chamfering, the ladder is finished. By hand planing, sanding and chamfering, the spars become nice and smooth. This prevents spits getting into the hands when holding the ladder. We want our customers to enjoy using the ladder and holding the spars. With the ladder being squeezed together, it is stable. This holds quite well. But we want to be sure that the ladder never falls apart, so we nail it at certain intervals. To do this, we drill a hole and drive a nail into each rib. Agriculture has changed a lot. Fruit crops declined and the management of trees has also changed. There are significantly fewer high trunks than in the past. Today, so-called spindles are planted. These are much smaller than traditional high trunks and can be better protected from weathering and pests, by applying netting and plastic. This results in higher yields and because these trees are lower today, they can be harvested with a trestle ladder. When finished, I check every ladder. I load them with weight and look all around to check if everything is fine. It's important to me that these ladders are strong when they leave the workshop. At the end of the day, there are people standing on these ladders and they want to feel safe. I give everything to make sure my customers are satisfied and feel safe on my ladders. When building such ladders, care is very important and although we work carefully, we check everything again at the end, to be sure that the customer receives a good ladder. A tree ladder is a very durable product. Depending on how it is stored and handled, forty years of lifespan is not uncommon. I enjoy delivering the ladders myself. This allows me to have good customer contact and I always hear what could be improved. We used to have an employee and my two sons helped out as well. Twenty years ago, the need for tree ladders steadily declined. Today I do this alone and my wife supports me. This trade does not give enough for a successor, to build a business. I'm retired and I am doing this because I enjoy it. If a customer requests it, I'll put the ladder right up against the tree for them. For me, it's important that a ladder is well made. The spars must be sturdy, without any flaws in them. Otherwise, there would be a risk of the ladder breaking. Also very important to me is that the ladder has metal spikes at the bottom, so that the ladder can be properly anchored in the ground. In wet weather with damp ground, this usually easy, but in case of very dry ground it is difficult to stick the ladder into the ground. For the fruit pickers, a twisting ladder poses a greatest danger, as it could cause them to fall off. It is also very important that the rungs are good and do not contain weak points. Breaking rungs could cause a fruit picker to fall off. This must be prevented in any case. I prefer to use new ladders at all times, because old ladders become brittle over time, so we don't use them anymore. For me, these are reasons why I buy my ladders from Alois Diethelm. He makes wooden ladders with a neatly finish. They fit perfectly to the tree and give in a little. For me, these are the advantages of wooden ladders over aluminum ladders.