This is a brick. Inside it is another brick. You But you see, being a brick is a good thing because Today I'd like to tell you a story of an immortal the Volvo Redblock engine. Along the way will of the 70s and 80s. We will analyze their hardware and yet truly amazing machines. Our story starts way created as a successor to the B16 engine, an being very reliable and strong. But Volvo said Nay! This is not enough or det har ar inte tillrackligt So they took an already strong engine and decided for Volvo because it marks a transition from crankshaft with five main bearings, but Volvo did absolutely giant. Their size is very similar to the day how they're larger than those on a Ferrari loads. Now the B18 camshaft is driven neither One of which was made from fibers to reduce belts or chains because unlike belts or chains was made from cast iron and to ensure that the engine heats up the head was also made from cast Regarded since ancient times as the best iron in what the Volvo logo actually means? No. This is this is copper. Iron ore quality and excellence for Sweden since as far back as a 13th century, B18 is the engine equivalent of a bank vault. dropped his Nokia 3310 phone on the B18 engine and that the engine was built to withstand pretty much it to withstand pretty much nothing. In its initial Back in the day Road and Track called You see all of this was happening back simulations or generative design or artificial with a ruler, a pen and some paper. This means that them to easily see after exactly how many hours that the only way to make sure something lasts the Now many manufacturers back in day would was a bit different, they wanted to make building the B18 for some reason Volvo didn't decided to verify that the engine would actually So they took a bunch of B18 engines and ran them full load. That's the equivalent of going non-stop or 160 kilometers per hour at full throttle. None Volvo wasn't sure that they would last so they drivers took engineers put them in the cars and all kinds of roads, all kinds of conditions. Thousands 620.000 miles were covered. None of the engines failed try and damage these things by pushing them well bulky and heavy internals of the B18 could damage would occur. Finally. Finally Volvo was the engines and install them in some Volvo cars, Also they put the same engines in a bunch of did just fine in fact some say that the engines all this into account there's no surprise that a teacher Irv Gordon is the Guinness World Record an original owner in non-commercial service . the time of the record, today the car has 3.25 Irv actually rebuilt the engine out of precaution but once the engine was opened up it was observed the car in 1966 at the age of 26. Irv passed on actually outlived him and it's still being driven Imagine how good a Swedish car has Now this approach and dedication to indestructibility with the B18 engine would define the brand in forward was made in 1966 with the introduction Came the real deal, the 200 series and for the 200 series Volvo Now there's a bit of confusion as to what ask a Volvo Enthusiast that will tell you that it's gasoline inline four then it's a redblock. aren't considered Redblocks even though they meet So basically Redblocks are the engines that started to be considered Rredblock is the B21 in terms of technology. Gone is the cam in block and The gears were replaced with a belt and make no mistake progress did not equal weakness at and the crank were still forged and very strong and everything else was still made with a big unlike the engines that came before it was also This car is a big deal because with the 200 series Volvo must equal potential. The previous engines, B18 understussed in other words they were doing pretty But with the 200 series and the redblock Volvo started doing something with their indestructability. more aggressive, fuel injection came into In 1983 we received what can be considered engine, granted to the 700 series. You see a but it also stresses the engine more so to ensure Volvo made it extra strong even though their than strong enough to cope with a turbocharger. in addition to forged rods and the forged crank. just to make sure that it lasts. But the 200 same engine, only downsized to 2.1 liters. It from 0 to 60 in 9 seconds. This doesn't sound like meant that the car driven by your math teacher or the preppy boy's 944. Al while being more But numbers alone couldn't convince the public that perceived as boring sensible safe cars for boring everyone's mind. They took the 240 and cranked up The Redblock engine actually felt nothing and thus with the aerodynamics of a wall showed up at the German Touring Car Championship. You know, THE touring car championship: DTM. Along the way Volvo patented a system to inject water into the Just like water meth injection that you see on race win podiums and take first places in rally events Anywhere from Scotland and Portugal all the way to the era of the 200 series ended in 1993. By that worldwide most of which are still probably on with hundreds of thousands of miles on the clock. car which was designed to replace, the 700 it has perhaps given to its owners more than reliability, practicality and comfort. And of extended its strive for indestructibility to The large frontal crumple zones incorporated into the 240 the automotive industry. In fact in 1976 the U.S 24 Volvos 240 to serve as the safety ideal for any manufacturer would come to the Highway Safety to make our cars safer?&quot; they would point at the And for the next 10 years the Volvo 200 series would death rate of any vehicle and maybe this is a bit you know they drive kind of slow, but never mind you very safe. Now the legacy of the 200 series and the group of individuals that you definitely would Young car enthusiasts looking for speed and the millions, which means that even today to find, relatively affordable. The engines were lot of boost and abuse. The cars are rear-wheel Now when you combine all of that with OEM only expensive space age technology like they affordable and plentiful and also what's plentiful electronics. So when you combine that which we made well in the past you have everything that a it a car and an engine which were built to last automotive industry but in the hearts of owners a lot for watching and I'll be seeing you soon