This is a story about financial frauds in history. A very complicated conspiracy involving a $100 million oil tanker and also the murder of someone involved. We now know that David into one of the most lucrative He was assassinated with a bomb that was meant only for him. This is the story of a single oil tanker that was attacked and burned in what everyone thought but turned out to be something My assumption was that the days of Pirates of the Caribbean and everything cleans up. But the more we dug into what the more criminality we found. This story really exposed frankly, the global My name's Kit Chellel. I'm a senior writer with Bloomberg and with Matthew Campbell, of &quot;Dead In The Water.&quot; Brillante Virtuoso was kind of a workhorse of international trade. It was like thousands of other oil tankers just taking a million to another over and over And the Brillante was very large. It was a 275-meter-long vessel, which believe it or not, does not put it among the and container ships, but it's huge. It's almost three football fields. And on this particular journey, it was heading from Ukraine to China and had just passed through the Suez Canal and was sailing out into the Gulf of Aden. Now, the Gulf of Aden sits and the Horn of Africa, And at the time of this piracy was at its absolute height. There have been two more pirate attacks off the coast of Africa, bringing the number to What used to go down several you know, little fast-moving or eight guys with AK-47s these gigantic cargo ships carrying hundreds of millions And they would, you know, take control of the vessel and and demand millions of dollars in ransom. Any sailors on board such a vessel would've known that they were if pirates succeeded in getting aboard, they and their vessel and perhaps taken to for ransom for months or even years. Which is why there was this extra measure taken for security. They decided they needed a security detail to go with It was nearly midnight, and there was a couple both Filipino guys, and a small craft approaching. At first they had no idea what and of course they were terrified. But when the small boat approached they used a loud speaker to shout down, and the guys on the little vessel said, &quot;We're security. We're Can you lower your ladder Within seconds of them they started waving their rifles around and commandeered the vessel, and it became clear very quickly this was a terrible who were rounded up and And then for the next couple of hours, they were sort of stuck in darkness, just listening and waiting, you know, dreading what might be happening. Their worst fear was that and locked in some prison, awaiting ransom payment to be paid. So they were all, you The ship started to move and then there was a loud explosion, and smoke started pouring into the TV room where all the crew were waiting. And when they came out, they had disappeared, apparently fled, and left the Brillante Virtuoso carrying a million barrels of oil burning. So when a large commercial vessel is destroyed or seriously damaged, this whole industry of And that's because a that might be carrying, $300 million of cargo or more, that might itself be worth It is also, above all, a liability. That vessel is insured, could be valued in the many, So among the very first when there is a big marine accident, are what's called maritime surveyors. And a maritime surveyor the insurance company would send if you had a tree fall on your house. The insurance company make sure that a tree actually assess the damage, figure perhaps pushed the tree onto write up a report, and that report is favorable and then your claim is paid. So a marine surveyor essentially And in the case of the Brillante Virtuoso, there was a very good marine surveyor, a British guy who happened which was the nearest city to So David Mockett is this with a booming laugh who And he knows the area very well, he's been there for a long time. And he's also, you know, He was once a master mariner and he's got decades of So, you know, it's a problem, it's difficult to try 10 miles off the coast But for someone like David Mockett, it's something he's more So he hitches a ride on a fishing trawler to get out to the Brillante Virtuoso. But he did have some initial trouble getting on board the Brillante. It was a bit slow to get permission. And the way that works a marine accident, typically the property of what's And salvers are the 911 When a vessel runs into salvage crews race to the scene to try and keep it from sinking, whatever needs to be done. And from that point on, the of salvage crews, who ultimately I think David Mockett that there was something suspicious about what happened to One of the things he noticed was there was no evidence of a Supposedly an RPG had started the fire. David saw no evidence of this. He was confused by the had occurred in the middle of the night, which is not typically how They would usually strike in daylight. He didn't notice any evidence bullet holes or anything like that, which again, was was part of the story. So he didn't have any positive He just had certain suspicions that there was more to it than the And when he arrived and their attitude was kind of strange. They sat down and had dinner one evening, and the salvors were about what he was doing And the Greek salvage captain said to him, &quot;You should be at home You shouldn't be in a place like this.&quot; David Mockett went back and started the process back to London so the insurers could get a clear idea of what happened. And in those early reports, you can see that he's suspicious And indeed he tells his employers, &quot;I need to go and find He's going to go and talk to He's going to dig a bit deeper and try and find out the true story, but he never gets a chance to do that. So on July 20, 2011, about and fire that all but destroyed David was working in his He typically got to work you know, between 7 and 8. He would work until lunchtime, have lunch at home, stay and then return to work later in the day. And, totally normal morning, And when it came time he got up, walked out the hall, and turned the key, of this small office building, and then onto a very busy road, one of the main roads of Aden, actually. And he hadn't gone more when a bomb that had been placed under the driver's seat detonated, killing him instantly. There wasn't a big explosion. It was a very targeted you know, people afterwards as being assassination. Whoever placed that bomb So the British government as it does when a Briton is killed abroad. The Foreign Office did try and of what had occurred. Ultimately, the Met police to liaise with the Yemeni there was not much the Yemen at this time was There were no British There was no British presence at all. You know, after the there was a there was an and the coroner found that but didn't know who had done it. There was no evidence as but there was evidence at that inquest that he'd been targeted because he was on the verge of uncovering But after that finding, you know, there was no police action. It was all just sort of forgotten about. The only thing that was left So when a large vessel is destroyed, or effectively insurance companies, through the Lloyd's of are on the hook for a great deal of money, perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars. In this case, the vessel itself, what's called the hull insurance, was worth about $80 million. There was also $100 because the oil on board from the vessel itself. So this is a very large liability, even for big insurance which is the world's most where they deal in huge transactions. And of course, if you are on you generally would unless you're very confident In practice, they might settle, or maybe come to some What they're very unlikely to try and fight you about it. However, in the case these London insurers, looking at this huge bill and looking at the circumstances and also taking into account who was one of their own, a creature of the Lloyd's world they decided to fight and And this insurance dispute had become, you know, overtly hostile. The Greek ship owner is a and they decided they weren't on the basis that they didn't believe it was a genuine act of piracy. And so it sets the scene for this high-stakes London lawsuit, which turns out to be the to really understand what happened here. The owner specifically was a who was a prominent Greek shipping tycoon, owned a fleet of oil tankers, also the owner of which is one of the most linking Athens to places And one of the fun things to is he has a hobby. He's a rally driver and a He's known in the rally He tends to do quite well in rally races. Really a pursuit that and a certain disregard for risk, which would probably come in Even years after the event, no one had got a satisfactory story out of the captain or the chief engineer of the ship. No one had sat down and Any evidence of what happened to the ship had been destroyed. The ship was sent off to a So the insurers had an enormous to prove that this was an act of fraud rather than an act of piracy. When you're seeking to invalidate in court an $80 million insurance claim, or a nearly $80 million insurance claim, you need a huge amount of evidence. And one of the things you do is you hire private investigators. And there is a small typically ex-police, who do So in this case, there were who were hired named Richard And they were digging what had happened to the ship and what happened to David Mockett. And they were doing, you know, the work that should have been done in the immediate aftermath of the attack, which is find the sailors, find the witnesses to what happened, and talk to them and get their stories. One of the whistle-blowers truth about the fraud on was working with the salvage crew and arrived at the scene and was there as the salvage crew ensured that the fire didn't go out, that the ship was completely destroyed and that the insurance fraud But because he was based in Yemen, because he knew the ship owner and because he knew the had known them for several months, he witnessed all these events happening. He witnessed the planning. He knew that a vessel was and be attacked and destroyed He had absolutely vital and for the insurance investigators. But he put his life at He had a life in Greece, and You know, he had to get and put on a plane to the UK. And, you know, when he the Greek whistle-blower was from an unknown location. Like, he's still living in hiding. They also were able to who admitted later on that because he'd been threatened So piecing all this evidence together, they were able to assemble that they felt was strong enough The judge takes a few weeks but when he does, you know, of the ship owner. He says that Marios Iliopoulos that he disgracefully threatened and that he's not telling what happens to the ship and And his misconduct is so serious that this claim is thrown out. A prosecution of David was always gonna be a very long shot. This crime, the murder, where Britain has no presence, So expecting a British I think was always What I am much more surprised by is that no British law enforcement agency has seriously pursued a prosecution in what a London judge One of the reasons that to get to grips with what is that it takes place in the cracks between the traditional In this case, you had a that was being traded crewed by Filipino sailors, flying the flag of Liberia in West Africa. So you've got seven or eight already involved, and the question is, who prosecutes this crime? Whose job it is to deal with this? And the reality of law enforcement is that actually no one wants the job. It's incredibly difficult to investigate and prosecute any fraud And so most police forces around the world just decide that it's not for them to do, and they can't do it. And in the case of the Brillante Virtuoso, the police were interested. that something untoward had happened, and they decided it was to prosecute a case. No one has ever been prosecuted. No one has ever been charged for a very significant fraud that was attempted against one of Britain's most important David Mockett spent a or in far-flung ports around the world. And, you know, he was finally spending some time and their grandchildren who loved him. And, you know, the tragedy is that he was killed before Iliopoulos did actually do OK financially, out of this, believe it or not. One of the things that which had loaned the money to Iliopoulos to buy the Brillante in the course of this litigation, concluding that it would So from the debt side, By destroying the vessel you know, escape debts of in and the ship was losing and was coming to towards So from a purely financial point of view, destroying the Brillante Virtuoso was the best thing he could have done. Part of me has expected to come out and say, &quot;It's not that bad. You know, it's not as bad as this one ship makes it appear to be.&quot; And, you know, unfortunately I think, there is this criminal that is thriving. And there seems to be very little that anyone can do about it. And the more you dig, the