Good morning, world. Welcome number 370 on our circumnavigation Yeah, we're here in Tikal in Guatemala, and the but for us, it's time to wake up because We camped here last night inside the Tikal and about one hour ago, we just had, Yeah, I think he was snoring, actually. I don't were snoring. I'm like, what's going on? Yeah, and it was just absolutely crazy and super loud. I'm sleeping with earplugs, but I had to take them wow. The park is opening at six o'clock. It's so we would just have some breakfast, probably. Well, look, it's That's the Mayan atmosphere. No drones, unfortunately. Pinky and the I would say they are pretty peligro to be honest, and they're not wrong. Let me show you this morning. So we're starting here at the front. the Grand Plaza, which has like a whole group of then we'll be heading all the way to the very end tallest temple in the whole archaeological park. I have an amazing view of the whole Ancient Maya Laughs. What an absolutely crazy tree. And I think the mist makes it even more dramatic The rainforest here is so crazy thick and tall It's magical. We can see groups of howler monkeys rustling really see the monkeys themselves, but you And I can still hear the howler monkeys calling Amazing. The howler monkeys just foraging in the canopy. Absolutely Wow, first views of the Temple of the Jaguar, and about to go around into the main plaza where all Here it is. We are home, darling. And it's just so misty, and the sun is just parrots just here. And literally, we're the only Wow, what an incredible place. This one here is the Temple of the You've got Temple Two. That's what they call it. forms this amazing massive square called the Grand So Tikal was discovered in 1848 by Colonel Modesto public in 1955, and it was recognized as a UNESCO from Mayan meaning &quot;in the lagoon,&quot; but it's also parrot voices, or the howler monkey voices. The running from 800 BC to 900 AD. That's like 1,700 in 750 AD. And at that time, the nucleus they estimate that there was more than There's actually a documentary film crew here as and they're getting some shots as well. We might the buildings of this Grand Plaza were Can you imagine that one building there might be as part of the same city? It's just absolutely But by far, the two most impressive structures in Temple Two. And these two were both built also known as Mr. Coco, apparently. And his Jaguar Temple. So it's crazy that in 700, these Mayan civilization had already disappeared, 1,500 There's all these upright stones all we can see carvings. And these carvings basically is what's giving the Mayan archaeologists all by the time the Spanish arrived here, there was There's a cutie. A goodie. No, he's like pretending that he didn't see us. first sponsor. So we just wanted to take a minute supporter, On Vacation Doctor. Just imagine a foreign country. You're exploring the wonders Panic sets in, and you just want to talk to language. This is where the On Vacation Doctor top English-speaking doctors in any country in the location, and the app will provide you with the English-speaking doctor. But the On Vacation you with the local ambulance, fire, and police and phone number. But the best part about this first six months, and then it's only $4.99 for and super affordable. So please, guys, show your app for free today. You will find the link in the your own health and safety while traveling world what an amazing spot C is. So, guys, stay Wow. You feel like you are you know? You feel like that Thank you. I'm just so impressed with the scale this is just huge. And this is not even the because now we're going to be heading which is right at the back and that is 70 meters tall. And apparently, So ahead of us, through this thick in Tikal, and we are just about to start Don't worry. It's got the You can still see the cloud line, actually. What a view. Look at this. Ah, there we go, at the top. Temple Four. So this tall, making it the tallest pre-Columbian is like skyscraper of the ancient world. So over there is the Grand Plaza that we came from and Temple Two there, and then Temple to here. Crazy. From up here, you all of them echoing throughout this whole forest. here, you can literally just see forest the whole you just let nature do its thing. It's incredible. peaks of these temples popping up the first UNESCO World Heritage Site to be heritage and natural beauty. Definitely All right. I am incredibly hot now. I think this I think it's one level above it. The bike is they're getting on this gear that's a challenge my God. But absolutely worth it. We just had some and now we're ready to hit the road again. Oh yes. just can't believe how amazing it is here, it's like a double wonder of the world. And we saw this beautiful turkey yesterday. Wow. Saying hello. Hello. It's not a very good comparison. And then, of that jungle is just super, super impressive. What then in the pre-Columbian period. I mean, those building that we were standing at the top of Americas when it was built. And for the next of the ancient world. And that was well worth So now it's nearly midday, and we have a really heading to the Mexican border. Do we run across it a little bit too much. Our navigation says then we will probably check out if there's a is still quite a big ride to do. So let's see Thank you. So away from the national park, where the temperature has just shot way up. on unbearable. Yeah. It's really, really Many unbearable hours later. It's Ice cream, but it looks like this. So I have to figure out now how to eat that. It's time for us to get in a room with the AC. hours, and we have two hours more to go. We're desperately trying to eat some pineapple, think we've had temperatures this high not even 38. It was 39. I really didn't be the hottest of all the countries we've been That's hot. It's official. We have what a milestone. Yeah, actually, Ollie's phone is I got a temperature warning. Yes. And normally, to the border. They said, &quot;I'll turn back I'm nearly at that point. Gonna Oh. Oh. Thank you. Happy. Yeah. Love is just checking out a room in the second owner just told us that the electricity for the there's no AC here or in the other hotel until, in about an hour. Ah, we were, like, so hoping front of the air conditioning unit. But it looks Hello. We made it. Happened alive and really finally. It got to six o'clock, and the air lying about that. So the room is cooling down, the kettle on the go for some noodles. But yeah, walking and then four hours riding. That's almost it's just about time to get a good rest Video. If so, please give us a thumbs up, with your friends and family, comment below, and you can join us on Patreon. The link is in the