A man adrift. Full of tics, and tremors. He is 89 years old. His name is Philippe Petain. He is Marshal of France. In July 1945, while France he appears before his judges. What does he feel? Anger ? Sadness? Shame ? He who, a year earlier, was still celebrated Plot against the Republic. Treason. For the era, But who are we really judging? The great soldier who surrendered The head of state Do we judge Hitler's accomplice? At the trial, Or do we judge the man and that they now want to forget? 70 years later, return to a national shame, which continues to haunt our memories. February 1916. Verdun. In these trenches they hide If they back down, France can Here is their general, here, on the left. Philippe Petain. Who watches his soldiers go to the front. My heart sank when our young people of 20 years old. Thinking that they would pass quickly Jolted around in trucks, they were excited to appear indifferent. But what discouragement He barely responded The new general is 62 years old. Beautiful azure blue eyes. A natural majesty. This almost unknown general has the reputation He's the man on defense. He hates his heroic charges carried out for honor To defend Verdun, he demands 1 million men. The passage of the entire French army. He had a small into a giant supply cord, maintained day and night It is called the sacred way. Of the Germans, he says, They will not pass. And don't pass. After a month of battle, one of the most he publishes a press release. April 9 is a day The furious attacks were broken everywhere. Honor to all. The Germans will attack Let everyone work and watch for Courage ! We will know ! "Courage, we'll get them!" In a few days, the watchword all over the press. And even in children's newspapers. Like this one, the Star. Eliane Stern's review, a little whose father is an officer on the front and which we will talk about later. But yes, we will have them! We already have them! See our great successes. Soon Alsace and Lorraine, will be again Petain, the man who will later be saved France. An epic built in the earth, in the mud, in the blood. And that the French will never forget. So far, his journey has been modest. Petain is a man of the 19th century, born in 1856 into a peasant family and Northern Catholic. An ordinary career In 1914 he almost as a simple colonel. For a little, we would not have A funny character. Behind the marble face, he meticulously hides his private life. He's a die-hard bachelor. A hot bunny. Believe it or not, the man who will embody 20 years work, family, homeland, likes to sleep with several women. In the midst of the First World War, he organizes parties as this letter shows I will arrive in Paris at 3:30 a.m. We can see each other for a moment alone and I will hide I assure you that nothing I would like that as soon as he arrives, you that you drag him on the couch And even before the shirts that you find pleasure in doing it of your lips and your hands. At the age of 24, he encountered Eugenie Hardon, aged four, the daughter of one of his friends. Becoming an adult, before divorcing. In the middle of war, She is the future marshal of France. He is also a man of order. And he will have the opportunity to show it. In 1917, after three years of war, regiments revolt. And refuse to go to the front. In the trenches, Comrades, we are three regiments, who didn't want to get in line. We go to the back. It's up to all of us to do the same Unacceptable for Petain. Who remembers in his youth, of the Paris Commune. This revolution which ended He hates revolutionaries. The reds, those he will call the bad French. In 1917, it was he who the government to quell the revolt. Here it is. Appointed as head His politics, the carrot and the stick. The carrot, that's it. Petain listening to the soldiers, who distribute tobacco Who reestablishes the permission regime Petain above all, who suspends The stick, This is what the films don't show. The execution of nearly 50 mutineers. My goal is to get so as to prevent without forgetting that it applies are on the front with us. 1918. The end of the nightmare. In Lorraine, the city of Metz A reporter from the newspaper l'Illustration Here they are. The cavalry escort squadron. Then behind him, on a white horse, General Petain. No, not the general, the marshal. Because the news has just spread. The instruction is given His serious face The beginning of a love story The hero who looks like them. The man who won the war, sparing the blood of soldiers. In front of Joffre and especially Foch, the generalissimo of the allied armies, Petain is made Marshal of France. His staff is given to him by Poincare on the right and Clemenceau, the chef The opportunity for these adversaries to reconcile the two Frances, in front of one of the news The parade of July 14, 1919, is a triumph for Petain. The 8 million spectators, however, are far from imagining the critics who General Weygand. "It's a kick in the c*** General Fayolle. It is to Foch that we owe everything. He was the one who ordered the fight. Even Clemenceau is severe. He is a defeatist who believes in nothing. It would be a great misfortune if he ever played a role. 15 years later, It's here. In this cozy nest, this villa he bought what Philippe Petain lives He moved there with Eugenie, his mistress who became A peaceful retiree. His career is behind him. For a long time he remained The government often to wage war in North Africa, or celebrate democracy in America. France associates itself with the feelings With him, of law and freedom. An exemplary character who covers him with honors Who would imagine, that this 77-year-old retiree, will soon be head of state? To his friends, he says his role is over. Paris no longer attracts me. I long for retirement and oblivion, of my contemporaries. At the same time in Europe, the ideological chaos of the 1930s. Hysterical Germany Italy walking in step And in the USSR, the little father of people. France is also immersed Corruption. Financial scandals. Political instability. In all the countries, like the Colonel's Fire Crosses and call for regime change. Royalists. Fascists. Many French people wish The situation is on the night of February 6, 1934, when the Place de la Concorde Their goal ? To assault In the early morning, the Republic held, but it's a miracle. And urgently, a new Surprise. This is Philippe Petain As republican guarantor, yes, Republican. Since the war, he has As the deputy writes He was the most human With him, no trouble to fear. I think I am approved by everyone The look of Marshal Petain. Petain is Minister of War. At 78 years old, the beginning of his political career. We are counting on him, the winner of Verdun, to face Nazi Germany. Germany has par excellence not only this warrior virtue on the battlefields, but still the taste May the thought of his dead, remind him that the war and that humanity does not aspire Issue. Petain must give up his place When the government falls. In 1935, he is a minister again, but only for one day. In 1936, he was nothing at all and very bitter, when Leon Blum and the Popular Front Everything he hates. The communists, the strikes, the revendications. In a word, disorder. Like in 1917. He says : &quot;I will gladly take the ministry and I will take care Youth and childhood are not From this point of view, it would be necessary to take inspiration from what is happening and in Italy. Question. Without anyone Is Petain slipping In 1936, in favor of the Crosses of Fire. Everything international Everything national The Fire Crosses represent one of the There are also his suspicious contacts, abroad during ceremonies one of Hitler's closest deputies. Goering is seduced by Petain. Marshal Petain is a soldier and therefore a man of honor, who also values the Germans. With such men, Of right. Yes. Really right-wing. Authoritarian. Nationalist. But Petain refuses the Nazi model. Too brutal for him. Wild even. An opportunity allows him to say it. Kristallnacht, when the Nazis and murder a hundred Requested by relatives, Petain agrees to sign As this surprising document shows, that we found and which has remained unknown to this day. Religious persecution raise in the civilized world, growing emotion. The global ban cannot be justified at a time in front of the law in every country. Are we going to return to the hours Will we see herds again driven from their homes An even more courageous text and anti-Semitism affects Look with what contempt from rue des Rosiers, So Petain, or not ? Or not yet? He has his good Israelites, like the patron Albert Kahn, Or Andre Citroen, He also frequents, Pierre Masse, one of the greatest One of the most endearing too. Pierre Masse that we see is a senator and left. Petain met him in 1917, when he was A great career, a happy family life. As these private films show. Who would imagine that he and his, in just two years made an outcast by the same Petain? Certainly not his son Philippe, who lives before the war in We are Jewish. We even feel more French Anti-Semitism, In my family, and the extreme right, Besides the riots It didn't work, so... End of 1938. Here is Petain again. Still there. And always close to power. Like here with the president At 82 years old, he doesn't let anything show, but he longs to return to the stage. Six months before start it's done. Petain is appointed ambassador At Hendaye station, welcomes Marshal Petain Military honors are rendered despite his great age, the mission asked of him. The task of a Frenchman is never declared the new ambassador. It's his big comeback. Even through the back door. Its popularity is intact. Petain, the patriarch who reassures, the man always ready to help. His mission, to prevent Spain, to fall into the Nazi camp, as war approaches. In fact, it is Petain who will change. Despite the civil war Spain is a revelation for him. Like Salazar in Portugal, Franco installed there A nationalist regime Who advocates a return to the land and loyalty to dictators. Swear to serve Spain with loyalty to serve me faithfully as well as serve of the State and the Spanish Revolution. Yes, I swear. Long live Spain ! As Petain discovered, a regime where the dictator And which he will remember. World War II is coming soon September 1, 1939. At the other end of Europe. Germany attacks Poland. 2 days later, France enter the war in turn. A shock for the population, who never recovered 4 million men are mobilized. But do they believe in victory Not sure. In Angouleme, this reservist, soldier Michel, With sarcasm. I was appointed to watch over You can sleep Here we train for the big day. And with the monitors we have, we are going to become strong ready But in fact, we wouldn't have In Madrid, Petain, too, doesn't believe in victory. He was offered a position And this time, he refused. What would I do Politicians seek but they are wrong. Life in France To stimulate energies, It seems that the moment May 10, 1940. The German offensive. A massive attack directed deemed impassable. Where Petain, did not consider it useful to extend After only eight days of war, It is this moment that chooses Mr. Paul Reynaud, taking charge took the lead At his call, Marshal Petain the office of Minister of State France knows that it can count on the value of their leaders, on the superiority of its equipment. Petain in government. The man from Verdun. The one who resisted the Boches, 25 years earlier. And who will save France again. Easy today to denounce How could they imagine In the spring of 1940, 10 million people and want to end it. As the writer notes The rush is unimaginable. The carts are stuck together Planes pass. I only hear that around me. End it. A woman shouts to us: &quot;You want us to What are you waiting for to stop The panic. The decomposition of an entire country No more state. No more army. Nothing. By mid-June, the Germans won. It was at this moment that Petain by the President of the Republic. And he asks for an armistice. Confident of the support of veterans, which I had the pride of ordering. Sure of trust I do to France to alleviate his misfortune. It's a heavy heart that the fight must stop. I spoke last night if he is ready to search after the struggle and in honor, the means of putting Let all the French come together during this difficult ordeal to obey only their faith This is the biggest disaster The armistice is signed in Rethondes. At the very place where, in 1918, the Germans accepted their defeat. For Hitler, the opportunity to put an end to France He sets his conditions. 400 million francs per day for Sending prisoners Delivery of political refugees He also wants to dissuade from North Africa. To lure them, he leaves them the south of France, as well as administration. Police included, throughout the territory. The navy and the colonial empire Petain was represented. After a few attempts he gives the order A text that carries within itself For Petain, the worst was avoided. For others, they are very rare the armistice is a betrayal. This is what Charles de Gaulle said. This former deputy of Petain. Here on the left. This unknown general comes The French defeat, was caused by mechanical force, air and ground of the enemy. Faced with this collapse, that of abandonment and despair. It led to capitulation. This is the one chosen The other is that of honor and hope. We hope that one day, superior mechanical strength, will allow us to have victory and deliver the homeland! July 1940. It's here, in Vichy, in this water town, what is now written The one Petain dreams of. At 84 years old, the old marshal is now This defeat is not his. And for him, the time of reckoning has come. The spirit of enjoyment prevailed, on the spirit of sacrifice. We claimed more than we served. We wanted to save the effort. Today we encounter misfortune. Be by my side, the fight remains the same. This is France, He summoned to the casino, yes, at the casino, the parliamentarians they judge One of the first targets is the former Leon Blum, whom he will soon put in prison. Among them is also Which we saw In a climate of tension Petain demands full powers. They are granted to him 569 votes for, 80 against. Sign of extreme distress. Among the pros, is Pierre Masse, Jewish and left-wing senator. Eventually, I voted for, seeing no other way to avoid or demobilized unrest. Or an intervention by Hitler. Legally, Petain obtains all the powers. Before the providential man, the Republic goes to bed. In the summer of 1940, the fall of the Republic In this village in Rhone-Alpes, we film secretly from a skylight, the arrival of the Germans. Few inhabitants yet No demonstrations. Just a wish As the soldier says We were beaten, These are the laws of war. NOW, The Germans, The French discover are not all barbarians. In this small village in Burgundy, they are organizing a concert The beginning of a terrible story That of the French under the Occupation. Two teenagers, including Jean Grivot, They want to be friends with us. In fact, they are peasants Soldiers mobilized and who don't care Now Petain deals with them. There was really only him He donated his person He has nothing to gain in this. Nothing to gain? Not so sure. Under the guise of dedication Petain is at the center of the game. And he can devote himself to his Not resisted the Germans, But transform France You suffer and you will suffer because we are not finished Come to me with confidence. All united, we will emerge from the night, where the terrible adventure plunged us. Young people, after me! Long live France ! And long live the Marshal! Marshal, here we are, in front of you, It is the national revolution. Apparently, a start Behind the winner of Verdun, the hope of reviving France. Work. Family. Country. In reality a far-right motto, that of the Crosses of Fire No more unions, class struggle, capitalism. Outside the principles In place, Petain wants to restore That of the earth which is not This rural France where the Church And where the woman finds Have children. A diet from our insides. A rejected counter-revolution I swear to dedicate to family, to work. I freely accept A regime that takes power in With Petain, everyone was left take their revenge. For them all, a divine surprise. The national revolution, In all the countries, Petain attacks his old enemies, the bad French. The enemy within. First the Freemasons, who accuse him of having confiscated Petain dissolves all companies You must not hesitate. Freemasonry is the main It was she who lied to the French, what got us to where we are. Another bad French, Accused of being traitors Hundreds of activists and sent to camps created Among them, a sixteen year old boy. Guy Moquet, who will be executed by the Germans The Jews too, who is blamed for having pushed and having succeeded too well. On October 3, 1940, without direct intervention and without shocking many people, Petain signs the status of the Jews. Jews are no longer civil servants, they are excluded from politics, and the press. As shown in this annotated document It even hardens the text A good start, as welcomes Those who corrupted our people, lies are always They will be expelled from the community to remain embedded there. Let's trust the Marshal who took the first steps Without doubt one of the most Having transformed thousands as second-class citizens. For example, Who writes to his former comrade. Mr Marshal. I have read the decree which declares can no longer be officers, even those of ancestry I would be obliged if you could tell me, if I have to go and withdraw killed in Douaumont in April 1916. My son-in-law, second lieutenant, To my nephew Jean-Pierre Masse, killed in Rethel in 1940. My son Jacques, second lieutenant in the 62nd battalion wounded at Soupir in June 1940, can he keep his stripe? Am I finally assured, which will not be withdrawn retroactively, the Saint Helena medal to my great-grandfather? Petain does not respond. He has better things to do. A few days later he meets Adolf Hitler. It was freely that I surrendered, at the invitation of the Fuhrer. I did not suffer any dictates from him, no pressure. A collaboration was envisaged, between our two countries. I accepted the principle and the terms will be Montoire, the symbol of collaboration. For Petain, the Nazis will win If France wants to shoot you have to get along with them. Six months later, the results. For the Germans, the exclusion of Jews is not enough, we must lock them up. The first victims are agrees to arrest In May 1941, thousands of them are transported Among them, Isaac Schoenberg. A Polish, who writes to his fiancee. We haven't gotten a response yet why are we here? Our enemies are weird. You ask the Frenchman, he answers you, that it's German You ask the German, The truth is they do That the French is looking for and he does it too well. From compromise to compromise, the gears of collaboration Complicity in mass crime. No excuses. In the summer of 1941, he was still At 85 years old, despite frequent fatigue, he maintains remarkable health. He works and lives here, at the Hotel du Parc, a theater setting A small military room, some trunks He sleeps there alone, a few meters from his wife According to some, it happens to him This is where most of them hang out Described as touchy, he doesn't cope well with competition. In December 1940, he did not hesitate to send back Pierre Laval, the man of the Germans, who overshadowed him. Good morning ! How are you ? Alright. THANKS. Mr Marshal, to whom you have agreed, in principle, that the publishing of a work was entrusted, summarizing your existence. Is this work ready? He is ready. They talk about me naturally, Everyone wants to know, what was the core of your thoughts and the foundation of your existence. We would call him Petain, our leader. This is good! But I thought you wanted say: Father Petain. I don't really like this name. Ten years ago, we wanted I say: &quot;If I hear that word, Finally, we can find For example using the word serve, in this formula. It's a word I use often, because it is the characteristic, of an activity, Yes, it's true, Therefore, I will say: "France, whom I wanted to serve all my life.&quot; An expression like that. You are there ? Give me the photos. I think the most beautiful, this is where you are It is the most loved and which characterizes both kindness and firmness. Yes, and in short, with my kepi, - Maybe even without your kepi! False modesty. Obsequiousness. Comedy. Petain is everywhere. It is the object of a true cult, until becoming the great The new messiah The marshal goes to carry his smile, his clear gaze, his words of comfort, his confidence. Alert, like everything always, he showed in the vineyards, to take of the year of the National Revolution. The country, by offering its voice, responds to the leader who said: &quot;I donate my person To alleviate his misfortune.&quot; Forget the national revolution Stunned by defeat. Thinking only of surviving. The French want to believe and he suffers with them. In Savoie, a young girl films This old man who offers himself It affects us, you know. He's a marshal. He has a quavering voice A few kilometers further, Jacques Beneton, a bank employee, he is also waiting with his camera. That's it, I see it! I'm holding on to a pole and I film with my right hand. It is thanks to him that I was able six kilometers from here Thanks to Petain, who lacks everything. Friends, Europe is on the move, If France wants to stay she has to fight there is no other way out! At the same time, in occupied Paris, a surge of hatred. This is not France it's a bunch of capitalist *** Nazi anti-Semitism In Paris comes The Jew and France. During the first 3 days, this remarkable collection where the documents perform a demonstration In all areas It proves how much France especially since 1936. Among the personalities Pierre Masse with several This time all nationality By order of the Germans, he has just been arrested and transferred to Drancy. Here he is on the left, And photographed in company Pierre Masse writes to his wife. My darling, don't worry After a moment of revolt, I had relief shame is not for us. I received the details you were able to give me Tell him how much I thought of him. And to his wife. In Vichy, Petain seemed to disapprove, the arrest of French Jews. In particular that of Pierre Masse, his former colleague from the Great War. Exclude Jews Yes quite. But not to the point of deporting them. He asks his chief of staff who answer him: &quot;Pierre Masse is certainly the worst which is today We express our astonishment intervene for a Jew Petain does not insist. Too bad for the Jews. For him, the priority is the return who are not returning from Germany In the winter of 1942, he recalled Pierre Laval They leave it, Rene Bousquet, move up a gear While the death machine raids are increasing in France. All Jews, without distinction, foreigners or French, Like Eliane Stern, the little girl who wrote: "Courage, we will get them" Having become a mother, she is As well as his father, a former officer. Like them until 1945, 75,000 Jews, including 20,000 French citizens, will find death in the Nazi camps. Petain's crime, and its popularity which leads to extermination. November 8, 1942. Turning While the Soviets are the Americans are arriving After three days of fighting, the French colonial troops to whom join the Allies. At their head is Admiral Darlan. Petain's designated successor. Here with General Eisenhower. For the first time since June 40, German defeat appears possible. In Vichy, Part of his entourage is burning with Like his former deputy from Verdun, General Serrigny, who advises him to join You must immediately Give all your powers to Darlan with your fleet, your aviation. With everything you can carry. There is a plane available. But they say that at my age, would be fatal to me. There is always a risk. But if you died you would join Joan of Arc I can't leave. I promised the French to stay In a few days, everything accelerates. To counter the American landing, the Germans invade the southern zone, to the Mediterranean. But not fast enough to which was scuttled in Toulon. In accordance with Vichy orders. A desaster. Without Navy. Without a colonial empire. Without free zone. Petain is naked. It's necessary to choose, the rebel leaders, chose emigration I chose France and its future. I need better than obedience I need his ardent conviction, his will to act and his faith. On your knees! A headlong flight. I commit myself on honor, to serve France leader of the Legion. A descent into hell itself. Dedicate all my strength. To save his national revolution, Petain accepts the fascistization of the regime. Standing ! He approves that in his name, the ultras of collaboration, are responsible for repression. Violence. Torture. The abuses are increasing. Particularly against the communists, arrested by the French and delivered to the Germans. Alongside the Nazis, until the Liberation, the Vichy killers in the assassination Petain is now 87 years old. Sometimes he no longer knows Nor where he is going. A shipwreck, as said But his age doesn't explain everything. In the years 1943 and 44, he remains quite lucid April 1944. His last masterstroke. We are four months away France, bombarded daily once again becomes a theater of war. Petain was authorized by the Germans where he comes to honor the victims Huge surprise. His visit to the occupied capital I'm coming to pay you a visit. I can't address, to each of you in particular. It's impossible. There are too many of you. I think of you, a lot. But be sure that from And then it will be an official visit. So, see you soon, I hope! A simple speech, banal even, but which touches deeply and which triggers the Marseillaise since four years. Let's walk ! Only an impure blood, water our furrows ! Long live the Marshal! Long live France ! Petain. The Patriot. The new Joan of Arc. As if in the eyes of the French, he had no and collaboration. His visit a few weeks on Stanislas Square Watch this amateur film that lingers This is the first time since is hoisted on this building. However, a few days Petain, who fears civil war, asks to remain neutral. No Frenchman should Otherwise, it would be lamentable, for you and for France. Accept the tests These trials are terrible, but they are all the same that you will not take part in it. June 6, 1944. The landing in Normandy. The heroism of 150,000 allied soldiers, which establish a foothold on French soil. Helped by the resistance fighters who sabotage The French welcome them That day, where the great news of the landing Scary images. Impossible to understand today and that we would like to forget. The crowd continues to cheer Petain, against all odds. As if it was him As if he had resisted While he favored their design. The Petain imposture. Sunday August 20. In Vichy. He is taken away by force who fear He will be retained A few days earlier, at the last minute. He tried to stand out Its leader, Darnand, answered him. For four years, I received your congratulations. You encouraged me. And today, because the Americans you start to tell me, that I'm going to be the task We could have done it Petain also tried with the aim of transmitting during a ceremony under the Arc de Triomphe. De Gaulle did not respond. April 26, 1945. Petain crosses the border After eight months in Germany, he has just been liberated by the Nazis. And he agrees to be judged. Plot against the Republic. Intelligence with the enemy. Much of the press His trial at the Palace is one of the major events Old reflex. Part of the public 89 years old, The debates lasted a month. Plea. Indictment. Before him parade those who called him to power. Daladier. Reynaud. President Lebrun. Those who served him, Darnaud. Where they used him. Like Laval. And also that he imprisoned, Leon Blum Many are missing. The missing, the political deportees, the communist shootings. Jews like Eliane Stern, Isaac Schoenberg or Pierre Masse. All those who were exterminated and are no longer there to testify. Of the genocide against the Jews, little is said about it during the trial. It would be necessary to wait until the 1970s, 30 years later, so that historians of Petain and Vichy Sentenced to the death penalty, then pardoned by General de Gaulle, Petain is imprisoned where he had locked up Then it is transferred to on the Atlantic coast. He will spend six years there. Confronted with his past. He writes to his wife. Sleepless nights are terrible. The darkness fills them with ghosts. And the faint hope of an improved life, that we caress fades away during the long What troubles me, is to end my life And leave with the label Philippe Petain died in 1951, at the age of 95. He is buried on site and not in Verdun as he wanted. For years, presidents a wreath of flowers on November 11, to honor the hero of Verdun loved it so much. A gesture interrupted in 1992, due to mass crimes, committed in his name.