Ages ago, before the Erdtree, the Elden a dragon that lacked the kin immortal. So in mutual hatred Welcome to our second video on the Dragons with the extra content we now have from the Shadow regarding the Drakes, Dragon Communion and so much is The Crucible, because I think it actually has a So what is The Crucible? Well, the aspects of The once blended together. And Ordovis's greatsword nature of primordial gold, which is said to be matter, as it's called in the Gilded Great Shield Erdtree. But this always confused me, because if this world before the Elden Ring, then how could gold have come from the Elden Ring, which we know with the DLC, I think I understand. Count Ymir created in a cosmic rupture of the Greater Will as its aspect. And so it is that I think gold of the world. Even before the Elden Ring made to speak. All of this is to say that now I think beings born from this primordial soup, they embody Tail. Breath. Wing. Fang. So when Metyr, Mother of I think the ancient dragons might have been the Elden Ring was sent down in the form of the I think these ancients of the Crucible were the living incarnation of the concept of order. is Nebula Dragon, and it does somewhat resemble breath as Placidusax does. Of course, these things not? What if the Elden Beasts form was chosen to of order would be accepted by the ancient dragons? we learn from the remembrance of the Dragon Lord question remains. Who was his God who would be Elden Beast or more likely, I think, Did he have Lord in the first place? In the end, we just don't with Placidusax's order and his god eventually return. Whoever they were, it's possible that for godhood. And like the other Empyreans that was also an Empyrean chosen by the fingers. And fingers held any influence in this Dragon Age. The the Cinquedea, a five fingered dagger wielded who served the dragons. The Cinquedea celebrates intelligence granted upon their kind. Now, this the beast's intelligence, but in an older version it was said to be the Greater Will that granted the greater will was removed by FromSoftware. will would bestow intelligence upon the beasts. So here's my theory on why it was removed. What if will because they wanted to keep the lore a little room down the line for another character who might behalf of the greater will? This is just an idea. to the beasts through fingers? But however it a really great line on that topic comes to us from having gained intelligence, the beasts must civilization took hold. The way this last line is that while something was being gained here, thanks them, a crucial part of the Beast's nature wildness away, and just like with the aspects of day be looked back upon with scorn. But as we know can be thrown off and wildness can be embraced. even if they are suppressed. For these horns, are interminable evolutionary gifts and symbols of born from the crucible. This is why I think that life would randomly throw a curveball into established order. In the golden age of the and in the golden age of the Ancient dragons I'd the dread. There is something that I think The first thing you'll probably notice about as opposed to the hearts of the ancient dragons, was a part of a genetic mutation, one that made without the stone scales of the ancient dragons think it also made him stronger in the sense that of spirit that you'd think could only come from The other thing that's interesting about Bayle's stones&quot;. Gravel stones, as you may know, are scales of the ancient dragons, and gravel Stone But what makes Bayles heart different is that the and considering the significance of horns in the a connection to the Crucible, right? I feel like The beast horn item from the DLC explains that on the beasts of the Realm of Shadow, causing many species. It was in this land that the vitality of Bayle's biatrial heart, dotted with horn like was likely a mutation of the crucible. Thus first of the ancient dragons lowborn descendants. whereas the ancient dragons have four limbs four The drakes have two hind legs, two wings, and a have stone scales, making them mortal and paltry father, then who was the mother? Well, it can only who might have been born in a similar way to Bayle mating with a different ancient dragon and completely clear. Whatever the case, as time went only compared to the ancient dragons, but compared Bayle's later descendants are lacking a few for instance, according to The Talisman of Dread. it would cause the jagged peaks molten fury to for Bayle because it's so poetic. Bayle is born And what is magma but molten rock? Bayle's fire any stone scales, perhaps they were melted away? I of Bayle's kin as well. You'll note that every and it's been speculated that these bodies might Speaking of Bayle's fire, even Bayle's red called flame lightning, and it's unique not only the Jagged Peak. This is significant because red and none of Bayle's later descendants have the drakes that can summon flame lightning are the the mountain. These ones exclusively drop an item aged dragons. Bayle too is called an old dragon, to the ancient dragons, explains this unique their descendants have lost over time. I want to jagged peak drakes have inverted scales which these drakes really are supposed to be closer their models aren't any different than the other thing about Bayle's flame lightning incantation they both require pure arcane to cast, as opposed with pure faith. Placidusax having faith is easy the greater will and retains his faith even in So of course, his remembrance incantation also incantations, well, arcane is a little bit arcane relates to one's innate qualities. The swung through the air via the wielders will alone, said to cast sorcery with their innate arcaneness. have incantations that require the highest arcane unwavering will and fury. But why? Why was Bayle hornsent Phantom in the elders hovel, who implores waste to the proud, the conceited each. Every elder hornsent Phantom might be calling on Bayle since they purged his kind. But I think there's a the Ancient Dragon Order here. I think this elder lot, a defining trait of the greater wills orders among those in power and their dismissal of the lesser were those touched by the crucible, age of the ancient dragons, the lessons were the as foul and lowly in the DLC, and then eventually and the ancients would go on to have intense lowborn kin. So yeah, I think there's a parallel and I think this is why the Elder Hornsent Phantom Now, the ancient dragons might be excessively want to note that Bayle was likely once on their being called a traitor suggests that there was a have had a kinship with the ancient dragons as but he must have been considered a part of their label him a tyrant. And it all suggests that an established peace, harbinging destruction and their discrimination Perhaps, I think, just Bayle sought revenge upon his prideful, these two characters, but unlike Seathe, Bayle took a way more direct approach According to the talisman of the dread, Bayle's grievous mutual injury, which has forced and he lost a talon, which now terminates in a for Placidusax's wounds, His body is covered in notably three of his five heads have been severed, to this day. The Dragon Priestess notes that after Bayle made a hasty retreat, but the damage was that perhaps Bayle's assault even played a part why Placidusax decided to hide away safe in this still unclear to me, but I think Bayle's tyranny and after this, it inspired Placidusax to he saw in man a fierce spirit and insatiable one day fell Bayle, the dread, and his Drakes, who Bayle turned upon the dragon Lord. The foul grievous wound only to make a hasty retreat, that day, Bayle and his bloodline, for Dragon Communion.&quot; This is Florissax, the she explains the origins of Dragon Communion that that only flows from those young and short Placidusax saw in mankind these qualities this hunger, unfathomable to the ancient dragons, the Drake warriors with the hearts of the Drakes, this is one of the most satisfying lore points Warriors were driven to consume Dragon Hearts sake of the sublime beauty and awe that the But it's such a great unexpected twist that Dragon consume the heart of Bayle, in what the Dragon the fullest sating of hunger and consummation as origins from the Rock heart, we learn that the who actually consumed the rock hearts of ancient rock hearts of the ancients were consumed in Turning the humans into a new form for the first original form of Dragon Communion required this were these test subjects of sorts, or perhaps a far as I can tell, there are three stone hearts in Dragon pit. One, I assume, would belong to whoever belongs to the Dragon Priestess. According to her herself, but sacrificed that form for feeble flesh assumed human form to share dragon communion with altar, bestowing the favor of the Dragon Lord Upon pursuit of Bayle. The fact that Florissax attends two ancient dragons with rock hearts might have giving up their hearts to take over the bodies this is just speculation, But there is a dead Dragon communion in the lands between. So what up their rock hearts? That's a fun theory, I given up willingly is supported by the fact communion were loyal to the ancient dragons, and let's analyze the ancient dragon men starting This katana is bristling with a spine of gravel stone aura, which is akin to the aura that the for this agent of the ancient dragons, his weapon, effect, but his role wasn't solely to hunt Communion Warrior. The ancient Dragon Man was once before you killed him and took his weapon for Dragon Man's death might be what allows Igon to come no closer. Oh the horror! Please savage me directed at Bayle, who does haunt him. And who for mercy could also be directed at the ancient way. Acting, as we mentioned, as a judge of those wounded as he is from a previous encounter with Dragon Man, let alone Bayle himself. Fittingly, ancient Dragon Man's human visage is draconian in Draconians have the stony face of the people previous video on dragons, there is evidence of upon farum Azula. So perhaps the man who consumed Alternatively, if you're in the camp of those who you could opt to believe that the ancient Given he wields a great katana, Dragon Communion It seems. You can look to Yura and Eleonora, or Dragon in the gravesite plains, as more proof now he occupies the dragon pit, which is actually a bastion of those in service to the this because in the lead up to the Dragon Pit, Though they've all fallen into disrepair. find fire breathing beast men who we know were here are filled with what I can only assume is the process of dragon communion. And there's even learned from our last video on the dragons. The According to the Magma Breath incantation. Those their humanity slowly slipping away, and once no more than wyrms that crawl the earth. So when a it seems, turn into magma wyrms. And I think we happens to us when we consume Bayle's heart incantations both read: Even after being consumed, its subjugation, never weakening. One day, the its communion devourer... one day. So could this the hearts of dragons that Drake warriors consume? it is the fate of those who partake in Dragon which I think finally makes sense because Bayle who have inherited his heat. Even before the DLC, Dragon Communion is a grave transgression cursed to crawl the earth upon their bellies with the DLC Dragon Communion being called a Drake hearts still beating are resisting their and they eventually overwhelm their devourer, but into an accursed land bound wyrm instead. were performing in awe of the dragons were having to indulge their appetites, all according to the also retroactively helps to explain Ekzykes, so furious at the Drake Warriors that he did the Scarlet Rot. But how many Drake warriors to understand that, let's read the description on your ascent of the Jagged Peak. This flower is coursing with hot blood. Its description reveals from the hearts of dead warriors who oft partook you're actually plucking it from the which is a fact that really helps to tell a story. Drake warriors died on their way up the peak, and of all time. What's more, Calorbloom might also which are also found on human bodies and are also hearts of dead warriors as well. But let me take So Calorbloom's wide red leaves are essentially So I think that might mean that these plants have the flower anymore because the flower is said earth in really appropriate places for the story example. And here at the Jagged Peak summit, which warriors are coming to challenge him. So the fact and the fact that this arena does feature a ton of has seen many challenges and that all have failed Grand altar? Did a great battle take place here I think there's evidence that it did. As if the heart missing from its chest, wasn't enough loot Dragon Communion harpoons, which I can These were tools of the old Dragon Communion which, in addition to the harpoons sporting sharp ancient dragons favor back when the ancients were for what actually killed the gargantuan Drake, if jutting out from the nape of its neck. And if you able to get up there and get a close look down is this straight piece of what looks like metal, What's more, the metal has a blue green tinge was just to call it a huge dragon communion have simply corroded over time, and the smaller them as well. And green rust is common to metals I've seen some speculation online that the green according to the Verdigris Discus, is a corroded and it really helps to tie the harpoons become unique to the realm of shadow. But to play rounded stone growths around the metal, which should be on a harpoon. One theory I came across might be fulgurite Which apparently is a sort of strikes. Therefore, another theory is that this a lightning strike, or perhaps more accurately, with lightning. I feel like that combines all of for dropping this geology knowledge on us. But by lightning, that would suggest that the ancient evidence for the ancient dragons being a part gravel stone is found nearby on the corpses of sharp gravel stone is actually the scale of an lesser dragons, suggesting ancient dragons were the drakes. What's more, red Fulgurbloom is found to bloom where the red lightning of the ancient to suggest this flower was in fact not set the peak, but rather by the red lightning of the to mention that there are ancient dragons upon So it might not have even been the hostile ancient upon the drakes. It might have been friendly ones. among other ancients is actually on Bayle's these ancient dragons saw some merit in Bayle's You'd think there really must have been some their lowborn kin. Either that, or perhaps these was stronger than the Dragon Lord, and maybe they to know for sure. We learn about these traitorous which does this lightning AoE where it strikes lord to side with a tyrant. Were known for thought that the branching red lightning would be called lightning stakes, and they're the hallmark side. Thus, I think the branching red lightning characterized by its ability to branch out and that Sennesax and the new lightning consumables you defeat Sennesax is that when you reload the be filled with a number of these slimes that are I think that Senensax's flesh has degraded into these were accidentally silver which they quickly corrected to these fleshy it's a significant change because in the game's carrion and carrion is explicitly defined as a that the ancient dragons would have flesh, but they can rot, and they can die if they can they become undying carrion imbued with red the only ancient dragons to turn into this sort Sennesax and her brood because they wield that Maybe that's how the carrion inherited this red implemented this carrion spawn because they wanted Sennesax would have once stood upon the jagged there was once an ancient dragon. And lightning infused carrion, you'll also commonly are the scales of these beasts. Therefore, I think whether they were allied with Bayle and died to Placidusax and died assaulting the Jagged peak, I What a sight. A warrior true if ever one there encounter, he's somehow made it to the base of by defeating the ancient Dragon Man, in a way, you himself because of you. He can go down Dragon Communion Warrior to be brave Do you not remember? Conjure your was yet foreign to you! Ha ha ha ha Drake Warrior. Dear friend, grant me finger. scale the jagged peak face Bayle summon my soul, my limbs are limbs no more. My warrior, I remain. And my soul yet lies on the quest. Or rather, he brings you on his. Igon's craft Igon's harpoons which can be fired from The harpoons read the broken Drake warrior Igon so that Bayle the dread himself, would know at the behest of a great enemy who he fled which included the loss of a leg. It's the same as The broken Drake warrior, driven by bottomless Dragon Lord envisaged for men who partake in spirit that only flows from those young and short such thoughts are unfathomable to ones as old as parallel to Bayle, someone who is wounded. &quot;My Terrified. &quot;AHHH&quot; But unbowed. Defined by an soon feast upon your heart!&quot; That will is present ghost Flame Dragon in the Realm of Shadow for of Spirit. Graves is home to all manner of dead, way there. Several of them were endowed with such die. Speaking of the realm of shadow, I wonder, upon Bayle? When Bayle challenged the Dragon of shadow was still a part of the lands between jagged peak would the Realm of Shadow have been land where death flows to, but not from, but because things between Bayle and Placidusax oh, Bayle, do your wounds yet ache, and has been zenith. But clearly Bayle has done little in this against Placidusax at all, if you can call it that Farum Azula. Given this new context of a mutual I wonder, are these drakes flying around in some presence this environmental set piece that we love to know if anyone has any good speculation Bayle can do to reach the Dragon Lord, because has long dwelled in his seat at Farum Azula in his So maybe he can't even be reached there physically like every night, My solace is yours. May it grant dragon priestess devotes her sleep to Placidusax, easier to bear. And yet he would abandon her concoction and falter in her duty. &quot;I have that was meant for my Lord. T'was a craven act of my lord will no longer look upon me. I have Leave me be&quot; Here, Florissax laments that she be wording that intentionally draws a parallel Dragons did once have the Elden Ring, after all, have once had Grace. But now Florissax has lost that. I think this serves to prove just how &quot;I may be fallen, but I need not surrender do owe me something for the transgression. and only Lord. As such, I require another... A Lord of your own making. Lead me, and I will you'll earn Florissax's affection. The love of with Vyke, and it's evident here too. With the There was a time when the priestess never knew It's interesting to note that under Placidusax's according to her spirit ashes, she not only has heart as well, all thanks to her bond with you. can slay Bayle or not. Before we show off Igon's out Displate who are the sponsor of this video. we actually do have one on there. It's called have a fun time looking for all the references keep an eye out Now for the new textre option, as well For the first time, selecting this option depth that can really catch the light beautifully limited time, you can get 27% off if you buy 1 or three. So let me know in the comments if you pick the Jagged peak, you might have noticed the dried jagged peak was a volcano once, though it seems dead drakes, many with that sharp gravel stone victims of ancient dragons. But even though the a part of me also thinks they might have just surrounded by a jagged peak drake here and further Such a thing reminds me of the description of the that the deadliest of the horned predators enjoy creatures. Their clash, I think, is this return Crucible. In times long past, life was, after all, the new found bear communion incantation is that can one discover a God unique to oneself. So going feel like there is a connection being made here to of it. A wildness that persists in the Drakes any rate, the biggest threat to Bayle still isn't Igon was nothing more than a poor scavenger of Dragon Communion. &quot;Curse you, Bayle. I hereby warrior. And I, Igon. Your fears made flesh.&quot; From that the phantoms of others are embodiments of the invitation. Invitation to fight alongside him and in life. In phase two, Bayle's fury finally crests of pure flame lightning, evoking the second set of wings that he was born without. Now the battle of Scale you might be foul Dragon, but I will of harpoons! With every last drop of my being! Ha You shall haunt me No longer. Before I go, special out of the park with the cinematography in this which were amazing. Also, six or so of those shots to them as well for letting us use some of their with the next Prepare to cry as well, so look