Hey, everybody Don Georgevich here with Job Today, I'm going to tell you how to answer, But before I do, there's two ways to answer And it depends whether you're fresh out of 20 years. And most people confuse the two. They watch all kinds of different videos on or answers about how they should answer the an answer that doesn't really satisfy the So, I am going to show you how to do it from or whether you've been working for 20 years. So, if you want to know how to answer, Why know now, by hitting the Like button ring the bell and we'll get started. So, let's say you are fresh out of college like, Why should we hire you? Now, for you know, your first question, Why should the phone, So, why should we hire you? maybe even the second or third interview, a whole bunch of candidates. You've already made it down to maybe the top But that's when they're going to ask you to Because that's what this question does. It's asking you to sell yourself to them; Or you can use this in all kinds of different It's the same thing: why should I buy this Why should I buy this TV? Why should I buy this house? What's the value in it for me? So, that's what the employer is saying to I mean, like, you know, Why should we hire What's the value in you? What are you going to bring to them that is of the company? That's really the root And so many people, they screw this up because Well, because I'm a good worker and then responses. But they're not really selling you. I mean, those are clich responses that Everybody who's not watching this video right you should hire me because I'm a good worker, separate you or them from everybody else. You want to dig in to the root of the question. And the root of the question is, What's really what they're saying. Why are you more valuable than all of these What's different about you? That's what So, if you're fresh out of college, obviously So, what is your value? What's so great about you, after coming out Well, that's where you want to understand What are they about? What are they trying to achieve? What are their goals? And what type of experience or college experience this role? What about your past education is going to for this role? And you know what? Maybe there's nothing different about it. Maybe there's nothing different about it. And you think that anybody with a business job. Well, you want to be more specific. You want to dive in and talk about what you've this role. And it's okay to use workshop examples, lab And then to take that one step farther; talk What are you trying to achieve in your career? What do you want to go where do you want to And you want to tie that into your response. So, why do you want to work here? Well, the type of company that you are and being And I went to school for business, and with what I'm trying to achieve; where my And so, not only are you guys looking for and I think I am a great entry-level candidate things that I've been doing in college and And you want to be specific. You don't want to generalize anything in your do you want to work here? What's your value? What's so special about you? essentially, when they say, What is your good worker. I'm a hard worker. I'm disciplined, and those are some nice So, that's why people use those types of responses But theyre so general and they're vague everybody uses them. So, if you go into a job interview and you sound like everybody else. You sound like everybody else, and there's make it easy for the employer to decide. I mean, if you get down to the final five I'm a good, hard worker. You're making lot harder to pick somebody when they all But when you can go into an interview and time, under budget. I know how to get things done with very little I'm very independent. Talk about, how you're independent, how to And be specific and share with them. Tell them a story. I mean you can almost think of your answer I hire you? You talk about, you know what you can deliver. I mean, that's essentially what an elevator It's just a 20-second commercial about you. And the cool thing about the elevator pitch ways and you can have like a long elevator Generally, the elevator pitch is short. It's about 20 seconds long. And you talk about the value of what you do. And that's essentially the type of response in the specifics of, Why should we hire So, knowing what they're looking for by reading in the interview, showing them that you understand Because, I mean, after all, they're going two or three interviews. So, this is your opportunity to recite back process and throw some things back at them. Say, Hey, I know you're looking to grow area. I have a lot of experience in that area bases. I really know how to communicate with people blah, and give them some specifics. Show them that you understand where they want And that's how you answer, Why do you want So, let's say you've been working for 15 or want to work here? Now, again, this question after they've narrowed it down. And this is, again, your opportunity to sell But remember, if you've been working for 15 against a bunch of other seasoned veterans So, it's not like you're competing against You're competing against other people who Now, again, when they get asked this question, still like to resort to saying, Well, because I'm a hard worker, and you're going to Because at this more of a higher level in are sharper than you and they're going to They're going to understand what their value And again, that's the key to selling yourself; question. So, when they ask you, Why should we hire want to do is talk about your long track record and talk about the bonuses that you've gotten, markets that you've been able to tap into, launches, whatever. You want to talk about, all the value that you can deliver that for them. Because I mean, that's really how we judge If someone has a long, successful track record into my company, they're going to produce As an employer, that gets me excited because 20 years worth of sales experience and my company, hoping that they can do the same So, that's one way. Now, let's just say you're an accountant and Well, again, that's where you want to talk and all the value that you have delivered. And I don't know all the specifics for what accounting. I just pulled that out of thin air. But I would guess that maybe as an accountant, You provided a lot of audits to the company and straight to prevent them from getting You've helped them maintain Sarbanes-Oxley I don't know; whatever it is. But talk about the value that you delivered grow, maybe it saved them money, maybe you you were able to prevent overruns and things Or let's just say you are an engineer and Well, you want to talk about all the value You don't want to say that you're just a hardworking You want to talk about the specifics. Well, I worked on these certain projects And I was able to complete them on time and Or let's just say you are a Customer Service Again, I'm pulling that out of thin air. So, if I'm hiring you and like, Why should customer service manager. I'm going to talk about all the satisfied I'm going to talk about how maybe we used and how I improved that. I'm talking about the value that I delivered that same value for you if you hired me. And you can apply this formula, this strategy matter. I mean, you could be a government worker and in your last role. It doesn't have to be a production-type role whatever. I mean, any type of rule that you're in, you're people, indirectly, who produce something. And that's where you want to talk about: what shares with them what your value is to them. That's really the root of, Why should we of saying it than saying, What makes you of it, if you think about it. I mean, when you plan out your answer, just company? {indistinct 14:24}. And don't say you don't have any. Because whether you're fresh out of college value; we all do. You just may not know what it is or you may what your value is. Well, that's where I would encourage you to And to isolate what your real value is, think What is your superpower? What can you do better than anybody else or And then that's really the value that you That's it. It's not any more difficult than that. Now, if you would like some sample answers help you because your answer needs to be about I mean, I can give you 50 different combinations going to do you any good because you have so special. Why would someone want to bring you on board? Why they would want to hire you is going to me or somebody else. I mean, I can guarantee you that if you and answers would be totally different about, And that's where you get the opportunity to about what's special. What's special about you. And there is. There is something very special about you All youve got to do is get it out because It's stuck. And it is for most people. They have a hard time with it. Its easy. As easy as I've hoped I've made this sound, But it's really simple. So, I've got some sample answers for you in It's called Top 10 Interview Questions and Because you're here and you're watching this You can go to jobinterviewtools.com/top10. Just put in your email address. Tell me where to send it. I'll get this guide right out to you. It's like a 30-page book, PDF, that you could And it's going to give you some sample answers questions: Tell me by yourself, why do you What are your weaknesses? Where do you see yourself in five years? and Because they're probably going to ask you going to get you started and it's going to to answer these questions. And it's going to prepare you for those. And more than anything, the cool thing about question. I also talk about what not to say and then So, I talk about both elements that should And you put all that together, you are going I guarantee it. I guarantee it. You sit down, you practice what I taught you and the value you can bring. You practice these questions here; you are You're going to be in the top five contenders. Maybe you'll even get that whittled down to I can't guarantee you're going to get the But I can promise you that by practicing your to get so much closer. And through repetition and going on interview you're going to be awesome. You are going to be totally awesome and you're that was awesome. I watched that video. I read that book, Boom. I got the job. And that's the way it works. And if youve looked around on my channel, writing with similar comments. Hey, I watch this video. I got a job. That is all I have for you. So, if you like this video; you like what this video with a friend, subscribe to my And I will see you in the next video. Take care. Bye now.