Adam Savage and Jamie Hyneman might be the was a huge part of what made the show great to the show. Here's a few things you might not know about Getting into the biz Breaking into a new industry can be tough fair share of struggles early on. In an interview with The Verge, she opened in the special effects industry. Initially, she had quite a hard time finding Shortly after she graduated from San Francisco to hire her. As she put it: &quot;I have this image just that all of my resumes Eventually, a friend urged her to pay a visit Jamie Hyneman leafed through her portfolio. Hyneman eventually found one thing he liked: an elderly man. And that was enough for Byron to get her foot She started off at M5 Industries as an unpaid ends meet. &quot;Everybody loves an intern. They work hard, they're trying to prove themselves, Her first paying gig We all start somewhere. Speaking to Dame magazine, Kari Byron revealed industry was her brief appearance on the second And since the show was just getting off the She was only paid $100 for the job, which making a 3-D scan of her butt. Hey, it's nice work if you can get it. &quot;It really looks great. It's really -- really nice --&quot; &quot;It really You like that?&quot; In case you're wondering, that scan was subsequently They were testing to see whether or not a an airplane toilet if they flushed while sitting As Byron told Dame magazine: &quot;At the time, I didn't think the show would I definitely had no idea that that would be my name.&quot; Becoming a MythBuster Just a few weeks after landing her internship As she told The Verge: "I just kept showing up until one day, they At first, she was just doing behind-the scenes Little did they know they were both about As Byron tells it, producers were starting be able to produce enough MythBusters material And one day, she got the big news along with Chapman. Byron claims producers basically told them: &quot;'Okay, you're hosts now. Go!'&quot; And then... they did. The bear mace incident It's only natural to take your work home with co-host, that can have some unexpected side Case in point: When Kari Byron's brother-in-law show. In a season fifteen episode, the MythBusters animals. As it turns out, one of the world's most popular to grizzly bears. &quot;Cayenne pepper -- a tasty condiment in cajun After the experiment, Byron reportedly attached just to be on the safe side. It could have come in handy when she subsequently and brother-in-law. When Byron retreated into her tent to take and assumed it was sunscreen. That was a mistake. He reportedly sprayed some onto his arms and and screaming began. Byron subsequently shared the anecdote on the &quot;best camping trip ever.&quot; And that's why you should always follow the &quot;Please, do not try what you are about to &quot;We're what you call experts.&quot; Mythbusting while pregnant When Kari Byron was pregnant with her daughter until her due date. Suffice to say, some unexpected challenges &quot;Only these guys would try to make a pregnant &quot;It's payback.&quot; Due to the unique nature of her job, a few wasn't putting her unborn child at risk. As she told the Inquiring Minds podcast: &quot;I'd be going to my doctor, saying, 'All right, she has ears?&quot; Byron's doctor reportedly had no idea. She'd never been asked that particular question And then Byron would ask how far she'd have to keep her unborn child safe, stumping her In case you're wondering: they did find the For instance, a baby develops ears at five from shooting guns, making sure to stay behind it. Her love of pranks If you're a MythBusters fan, you've no doubt of humor. How come the clown wouldn't wear a seatbelt?&quot; According to The Verge, Byron absolutely loves and joy buzzers, either. She claims she's even asked her friends in her body after she dies. Wondering why? Byron told The Verge: &quot;So I can jump up from behind the headstone. GOTCHA! That would be my wish to prank people for Byron even tried turning her love of pranks former MythBuster Tory Belleci. They once filmed a pilot for a science-themed &quot;Please report, report!&quot; &quot;He came out, the body came out!&quot; &quot;Oh dear god.&quot; Could Prankenstein be a reference to Byron's We'll probably never know because the pilot But if you want to see what the show might sizzle reel to YouTube in 2019. It's definitely a sight to see. Her artistic undertakings The casual MythBusters viewer might not know It seems her time on MythBusters really influenced According to The Verge, she stores her art And she makes paintings using clay and controlled In contrast to her cheery disposition on MythBusters, featuring lots of leering skulls and sinister Byron uses her artwork to teach her daughter For example: To get Stella Ruby to stop picking &quot;booger monsters.&quot; She told Stella Rose that these creatures by picking her nose, they'll crawl into her In other words, when Byron's not busting myths, The Tory Belleci rumors When two famous people display an inkling be rumors of behind-the-scenes romance. Over the years, there's been some speculation and former co-host Tory Belleci. That's not surprising, really... can't you &quot;Oh my... oh my god!&quot; In an interview with Blast magazine, Byron their relationship has never been a romantic In fact, she's been with the same partner, MythBusters appearance. Byron says Belleci is like a brother to her, Twitter anxieties You'd expect someone like Kari Byron to embrace especially considering her time on MythBusters, her life in Silicon Valley. That's not exactly the case. In a 2011 article she wrote for Wired, Byron to social networking sites. As she explained it, she basically fled Silicon way back in the Friendster era. After an extensive period of backpacking, that most of her peers were, quote, &quot;drenched She was quite wary of this new way of life, "Why would I want to be in a chat room? I can just go to an actual place where people But when she saw her 19-month-old daughter play an episode of the kids' show Yo Gabba catch up, or get left behind. And how did she overcome her suspicion of She started a Twitter account. Initially, she found the microblogging site follow her, or perhaps she wouldn't have a And what if she accidentally said something It looks like she's gotten over those hangups. As of the making of this video, she's quite week. For science! Perhaps unsurprisingly for someone who was totally committed to getting young girls interested &quot;Unless you've been living in a cave -- no Engineering, and Mathematics.&quot; According to Discovery, Byron is doing everything can perceived as &quot;nerdy&quot; or &quot;geeky&quot; to young And what's the best way to get children interested Byron told Discovery: &quot;I think that the most important thing to STEM is being excited about it yourself, as Byron herself didn't pick up her interest She became fascinated by the subject when Byron is also the chief creative officer of self-balancing robots and action dolls. According to the official Smart Gurlz website, &quot;[These toys] engage and encourage girls to Here's her philosophy in a nutshell: &quot;'Girls can't code.' What the...? I'm Kari Byron from MythBusters. And this... is total crap.&quot; Her mysterious Mythbusters exit Of course, all good things must come to an In 2014, co-hosts Tory Belleci, Grant Imahara, Why that happened is anyone's guess. According to Business Insider, the show basically Following her departure, Byron tweeted: &quot;After a decade of the Mythbusters, we are In another tweet, she wrote: &quot;The show is taking a new direction. It was an amazing run. I learned so much about myself and the world.&quot; Meanwhile, executive producer Dan Tapster that be wanted the Build Team to continue He says that Byron, Belleci, and Imahara all Several sources claim they left the show over Whatever the reason, there's no bad blood Hyneman. In fact, Savage says he considers the three to see them leave. The Build Team even returned to the show in where Kari and her old friends reminisced &quot;There was a time when I had to try to extract &quot;I'm sorry.&quot; &quot;Aah!&quot; Check out one of our newest videos right here! Plus, even more Nicki Swift videos about your Subscribe to our YouTube channel and hit the