I think you know a lot of ways Here's another one for Mix 1 third cup of vinegar Place a paper towel on the Apply the prepared During this time, it easier to scrub Voila! Your skillet is spotless! Are you curious about why I'm going to show you two First, cut the paper in half. Place one half of the paper in a plastic bag and put it in Sprinkle water over the paper and In my case, it is peas. Then, wrap up the bag and After that, open the microgreens to a windowsill Remember to keep them well watered! Now you have fresh microgreens at And now the most interesting part! I'm going to show you what to This is a hack that many Just put the paper in your It will absorb all the Well, let's try it! Want to reduce your Here's a great solution! Simply divide the Now I'm going to show you The first one is a whisk for whipping Both of these life somewhere in the Now I'm going to guide you For sharpening these three sides, Move the stone back and However, to sharpen covered in round Here's how it's done! Is your sponge as There's a solution! It's easy! Just put the sponge the dirty dishes and If you need to line around baking dish There's also another It will help you use much less oil for frying and will also If you twist the cling wrap while wrapping the Here's another chic that stubborn Simply dumpen half this natural abrasive Voila! Your skillet looks brand new! For a savy sponge between the layers of my dish Now I can conveniently Here's another a particularly The secret ingredient is ground coffee. Nobody believes but skillet will look and To conveniently you can reseal And there you have it! Frustrated with potato slices Let me unveil a To transform this simply tape a toothpick Struggling to scrub those deep and narrow glasses? Here's a Spare a dish sponge on a cleanse every part of Your glass will be sparkling clean! Switching focus back to skillet Sprinkle a dash of a lemon and use it Don't forget to give a lemon a gentle You'll watch the grime And now, let's explore another To make oven cleaning a breeze, fill an oven-safe dish with water Pop it in the oven While the oven is still hot, you'll find that grime wipes away Just be careful, hot surfaces await! Here's a clever life flowing into your dish Simply puncture your needle and then affix the This nifty modification ensures a Now you're washing In need of a seal for a to be found. Worry not, Take the top from a plastic bottle Next, use a torch lighter to gently And there you have Here's a handy trick from an ordinary Cut a piece of sandpaper to Stick sandpaper on the clothespin The knife has become To eliminate unpleasant odors from Place it in a container, add Leave the sponge in the fridge for a few hours and the This muffin pan can also serve as Now, let me unveil for banishing that fishy odor Simply sprinkle some salt onto the board Rinse it off and pat dry. Do you often struggle when cleaning the blending shaft and I'll show you a All you need is a jar filled with water. Dip the blender into the Afterward, just Now I'm going to show you a very Simply put it in the cabinet when you're See how convenient at hand and doesn't Do you often find morning sandwich is The problem is solved. squeeze out the butter And if you're worried water over the garlic Don't have an ice cube an egg tray, cover it with These are the ice cubes I made. Tip - tray with ice in a I also made them from For instance, coffee ice cubes are To drain the liquid from canned food To keep your drinks and snacks cold without spending a fortune, try this simple life hack. Turn an ordinary kitchen sponge into a refrigerant for your cooler bag. It's easy, cheap and effective, even on the hottest days. To make it much easier to remove the soot from your pans and pots, you need to heat up them well first and only apply detergent when they are hot. See how easily everything comes off. If your knife is dull and you don't have a sharpener at hand, any ceramic dish and hot water will help you. A dish sponge should always be kept dry and clean. To do this, I make a slit in it and hang it on the faucet. If you need to grab two cups of coffee and don't have a cup tray, an ordinary milk carton will do the trick. See how you can turn it into a convenient cup tray. And now an on how to make an You can also use a bar shaker. Here is the best school lunch to Is your parchment paper staging Here's a chic fix. Simply dampen the paper with water. You'll find it becomes instantly more compliant, fitting Now you're ready to bake. And now a quick trick for No binder clips required. Circling back to our fishy dilemma. If your skillet is holding onto that Fill it with water, toss in Bring to a boil and let The end result? A skillet purged primed and ready for Love Turkish coffee but hate the mess? Heat your cezve inside a pot. You'll keep the coffee Efficiency meets elegance. Missing the right lid for your jar? Don't fret. A simple balloon's got you covered. Inflate it just a tad and Voila! An instant airtight seal. Need kitchen tongs and a pinch? Fashion your own using two forks. Simply unite them with a rubber band. Can't crack that tricky plastic package. Two coins are your easy open tool. Simple yet genius. Run out of napkins? Toilet paper can serve as a Simply remove the cardboard You'll have a roll with each sheet easily separable. A dishwashing sponge can be effective Soak the sponge in water and The steam will make it easy to clean Nobody believes but it really works. Out of a dish soap but faced with a grimy skillet, your to the rescue. It's remarkably effective at Now I'm going to pour an entire a glass without Here's a life hack for you You can craft an oil dispenser Did you know how straightforward it is to sharpen the knife Here's the method. Take a piece of sandpaper and a meat Cut the sandpaper into a circle the Assemble the meat grinder, placing Then operate the grinder for 5 minutes. The grinder's knife will come To thoroughly clean the inside of a bottle, you can dish sponge, a This life hack might not be an If you run out of dishwasher tablets, you can whip up your own And finally, a life hack Thank you for watching! Please consider and sharing this