(classical music) (water hissing) (oysters rattling) - [Earnest, Sr.] We're a little town on the water coast. We do oysters. We farm 'em and wild picking. This is a nice oyster, for a wild oyster. We work anywhere from, two to 3000 a day. It's something that grows on you. That passion for it, it grows on you. (engine humming) - Well today we're gonna and check on some farm oysters. (upbeat music) Well, we're here at the nursery. - Huh, this is good exercise. (water splashing) Shake them in the bag and keep 'em loose. If you leave them there, they have a tendency to grow together, and stick in there, start It don't take long for it to do that. So we pull 'em out, we shake the bag. Make sure you shake the The more you can keep 'em clean, the more flow of water See how deep that oyster is, right there? That oyster got a cup, deeper the cup, more meat and more flavor in there, more of the juice in there And what causes that is coming out here, and shaking them around You have to do 'em like a You have to take care. If you don't take care of it, So that dark mark on this pole over there, the tide, get that high. It takes like six hours It's low tide, now. When I got started it and oyster boats down there. And over the years all and so it just left just It's now become a part of me. This oyster right here, That's a farm. (bucket rattles) This is what you call That wild harvest, mother You know, they sit there and it's up to the and pick the right thing. I don't know, I'm pretty because I want it to be right. My father, he's been at it all his life. Started in 1978, and I and I asked him, &quot;Think He said, &quot;Yeah.&quot; So now, I've been at it 45 years. Oh yeah, I love it. (tool clinking) It gets in your blood. (tool clinking) This is a nice oyster, for a wild oyster. You find them nice like that here, because we work this bank a lot. If you are up on top of the bank, then you're going to get the clusters, and they're good for roasts, but you can't use them in a You know, you gotta have a single oyster. - [Earnest Jr.] People love But all our oysters grow So we produce three types of oysters: a wild single, a farmed And don't think you're 'Cause you rake up, see you You know when I first started, pop's like, &quot;You gotta have the eye of the eagle, ah.&quot; Yeah, that's exactly what it is. And look at it there, you pop He's got that shape on him. Ah. (tool clinking) That's a cluster. You got one, two good Ah, he's a dinner. Two nice, beautiful oysters. From being in it, from nine years old, it's kind of like fun to me. (laughs) You come out here with (bucket rattles) You ain't gonna beat me at You know? (laughs) (classical music) - This is my daughter, on the the crew right now. It ain't new to her 'cause I'm glad for her to be here with us. - I didn't learn to appreciate I used to cry. (laughs) It's too much water. (laughs) I got it now, daddy. (laughs) - But my son, he went into boat captain. He learned a lot out there in that field, and he been going places I going 50 miles off shore by himself. - So you're a skipper before So that means you know everything before you even become a captain. Yeah, well this is the collector site. This is a high-larvae area, 'cause this is the mouth in this point in all of the something before they get out the ocean. And that's why this area is - Oysters grow from larvae. It'll float around in the water column, until they finds something - We take these and knock 'em off, so they can actually breathe, 'cause I don't think with like five or six people together. - Oh, yes! (laughs) (larvae cracking) You see how they're falling off there? When you leave them then you come back, they'd be a nice beautiful single oyster. When you break 'em apart then - You gotta be actually You have to do small things that don't make sense to the next person. There's no farmer that farms the same. Never. Everybody got their own and that madness is (gentle music) Well now we are going to head - [Earnest Sr.] We bring them back here, and we'll pressure wash It's a different life for me, after 45 years of seafood, My son's been working with me a long time. I didn't realize that he was really watching me and learning. He knows everything about it. So now we've been farming and every year you learn See, it's got that deep cut here, and across here. They pretty much like for raw bars. People come around and think We say no, try it without the sauce, and they fall in love with it. We got a good clean water right here, now. You know, so I don't know but for years it's been like that. Got a sweet, mellowness taste If you eat one, you want Put 'em in bags and tie 'em down, and put the tags on them, and the date. - [Earnest Jr.] We just looking good and well for them, the chefs, to be happy. It's going to the The - McIntosh oysters fresh off the boat. - [Earnest Sr.] We started with her, it goes pretty deep with with The Grey's. We get along with all of them, and we got love for all of them. - [Trevor] These are McIntosh oysters, from Harris Neck, Georgia, and these are the most local, We have a really close relationship with the McIntosh family You can see how beautiful they are, and they get that green hue 'cause, they're from the marshy Georgia coast. When we first started working with them, they would bring us clusters, and he's been developing them every year, like they look more beautiful every year. Where now they look like this beautiful, select cup kind of oyster. It's cool to see the Like, I'm from New York. Oysters are very briny up there. These are a little like, more rounded. We're gonna make a pickled oyster. This is a classic snack We start with making a pickle brine, with apple cider vinegar, allspice, mustard seed, very kind of aromatic. Today we're gonna use some Benton's ham. So these are oysters that You can see they firm up a little bit, and we roll them in the ham. It's just a really fun bite. We'll usually serve this at kind of wake people up a little bit. So we're gonna roast Kind of classic Lowcountry-style. Yeah, so let's steam 'em, until they sort of open up like that. Burlap sack is like, super lemon, cocktail sauce. And we'll have parties in the yard here, and give people little shuckers, so they can just pop the sauces out and just - The Grey's is one of We started with her, Mashama Bailey. She is a loving person Oh, she can cook. (laughs) - We are doing little oyster hand pies. What we're gonna do is and turn it into like, a We have peas, we have asparagus, we have some hakurei Put a little bit of cayenne on there, well, maybe a lot of cayenne Once you kind of get what we'll do is we'll So I wanted to focus on something and I did some research and a lot of people would make them, and put 'em in their lunchboxes. What we have here are the One of the things that is interesting, about Savannah is that it has It's an old oyster community where a lot of Black folks lived and worked. People shucked oysters, farmed oysters, in order to provide a It was really just a very is that, you know, this very kind of like, Since then, that oystery has closed down, and really now, the remaining Black oyster farmer families, in the region and maybe I'm gonna brush these with egg, and then we're gonna take (classical music) If you've seen them on the You know, I think more people I think the best part about working with the McIntoshes is We've kind of grown up together, by redefining some of these ingredients and techniques and how they're These are McIntosh oyster hand pies. - Ooh. - For the McIntoshes! (everyone laughs) - Just taste one. - Great. - [Mashama] Good, good. - So is an oyster like in a pot pie? - [Mashama] Uh-huh. - Oh my God. (everyone laughs) - Uh-huh, it's like oyster in a pot pie. - This is good. - Yeah, good, good. We're taking good care of your food. - Yeah, how does that (indistinct) - You raised something so small, like a grain of sand, and you see it grow up as It just has to be something that you love. I mean, you're on the boat, in the water and you see Just you and the good man. You know, you and God.