This is me. I'm 34. And this is my motorcycle. It's a Yamaha. I'll tell you more about it later. Now, I did 152 kilometers with it so far. And these kilometers account for my entire Now, I'm not your average 34 year old. How come? Well, for one, I learned to I was taught by my wife And ever since then, I have Which means that all the two-wheeled should be embedded in my And now I'm at an age where acquiring when I was four or five or six or whatever. But despite these things being against me, I really wanted to experience And today I want to give you a very Of what it feels like to be a newbie rider at 34. And whether it's a good idea to take a motorcycle Let's go for a ride. Now, something else that was against me didn't start riding motorcycles earlier, is In fact, nobody in the family is None of my friends own a motorcycle. And just like everybody else in my family, I was death traps, and that motorcycle riders are these Unfortunately this belief and statement who regularly reports on this or that young man And so faced with this death trap, and you I convinced myself that I don't like motorcycles. Now, let's drop him for a little drink right here. Maybe a bite And here you can see demonstrated in practice, Parking is no longer an issue. But at some point I became an actual And I realized that the media only They never report on that guy who was riding his motorcycle his whole life I mean there's hundreds of thousands of That's a perfectly normal thing. People commute with motorcycles. They spend their entire lives riding motorcycles. Now, it might sound a bit silly but realizing that most riders are sane people, and super high chances of death, was a Now, I'm a car guy. I started hiking cars sometimes I got my license when I was 18. My first car when I was 20. And the next 14 years I spent Now, adding up the combined mileage of all plus many many rental and company cars estimate of around 500,000 to 600,000 And I think at this age, that is my one advantage someone who's much younger on You see, I know traffic. After 14 years of driving, I feel I have learned how people to sense the stuff that's happening around me. And I have also learned to anticipate and And this is important because It's usually the other participants in traffic. So, despite being a newbie rider, thanks to my age and traffic experience, I don't Now, a motorcycle isn't very fast or powerful, but it has enough grunt to And it will also outrun most average And I think this is important and necessary. Because I feel like I wouldn't underpowered motorcycle that can't get When it comes to learning to ride, I have to say that it feels like And I feel like I progressed from absolute And I have to say that I'm really surprised by and I feel like I always had trouble turning Before I started riding, I of course tried and I always ended up feeling like I would fall. Because a motorcycle looks and feels unstable. When it comes to leaning motorcycle, I was I completely understand the physics and why it doesn't fall that easily, but and convincing me that it will be very Now, you're probably wondering, Didn't he get a license before riding? Yeah. No. I definitely, I have a license. See who it is. But I got it like five years ago, back when riding a motorcycle someday. But I got a but I got license on a scooter. A Vespa PX125 And you know, a scooter is different. You don't really ride a scooter. You sit in it. The same way you sit in the And I was convinced that you know, throw your leg over it was somehow different. And shifting which foot was different, and I was scared to get started. So I decided that I would start small. The first thing I did was just taking off, five to ten meters without What I was confident that I could do that. Easily then I tried shifting gears next time. And shifting was easier than I ever expected. It's very fluid and simple and going Then I joined you know traffic and public roads. A took and took a little trip of And all of this happened and immediately I realized that the scooter Twisting the throttle gets the Just like physics said it would. But I was still surprised by my rapid progress. And I wonder where it came from. And then I realized it. I'm probably not even a clumsy person. I'm likely an average person. The only difference is that this And because I'm 34, I don't feel I started riding and I decided I decided This might sound silly and it might I decided to do zero research and watch Before actually attempting to ride a motorcycle. But the older I get, the more I feel that the even though these dogmas are And validity of this dogmas seems to be and repetition from people that don't So I decided to forgo being told what to do, and tuning everything else out And after about 10 minutes of riding, for the I noticed that my wrists really hurt Like it was horrible, but I realized Everything else was tuned out I realized that I was sort I was afraid and I was trying and there was too much weight on my hands. So I simply felt that I had to move in order to you know remove And I decided to you know hug the gas tank a Weight was you know in on my lower body, that the motorcycles actually It initiates sort of, you know the primary control, set of commands if you will This is just a really subjective explanation, but it works for me because it is You are your best friend. And you know yourself better than anyone, Yeah. Now, what I also noticed is that now, I remove weight from my wrist, I also noticed that I often slouch. I ride like this. And that also leads to back pain Because I'm old. So, I also remind myself to be straight But I have to keep reminding myself, the more I'm practicing, the better I get. And I also came to this to try and learn how to lean a motorcycle, Because this is a safe place. There's nobody here. I also tried breaking hard, to see because it's better to practice somewhere safe. I did all these things the And it worked And the deal is when you're older when you're young it's really easy to go you're unable to overthink things But when you're older, following the really only works when you know yourself well Now back in my early 20s, I felt like I had to prove that I'm the Getting me into some sort of easier than getting a middle-aged I was easily swayed by emotions and in a game that doesn't even officially exist. And this then resulted in several very very badly had I been less lucky. It's very possible that these safe been on a motorcycle at that But fortunately after a while, I realized that all of this fast and But at the same time, getting enjoyment and fun Simply driving around wasn't as Traffic became a chore. And getting an actual now required things that would be extremely In order to experience thrills and have fun in and some spotters, or to go to the track. And neither of these is And there's no surprise here. The more you do something and the better and the harder you have to push, in order This is why a Formula 1 driver won't But an inexperienced driver, And this is the reason why I'm actually a At this age it's getting harder You've been around long enough and the number of firsts you can hope But then I get on a motorcycle, completely unknown world opens up in front of me. More firsts in a single week, I'm on completely unfamiliar Something I haven't done in forever And something that's a very unexpected Where first are very rare. In this sense, I feel like motorcycles So am I too old for bikes? Yeah, definitely. I'm pretty sure that in terms of skill, I will never catch up with the people But you know, who cares? Am I to win some sort of competition, No. I'm riding for the sake of you I'm already at a level where and travel from destination A to destination B. And everything above that that I manage It's me, this bike, and the road. And honestly, that's more than I could ask for. So, yeah, I did promise to tell but before that, a few words about the gear. Now, when it comes to the gear, I went into the local store and bought Most of it is pretty basic you That's it. Honestly I wasn't interested in spending hours on I feel like nowadays the internet is trying to convince us that we research And that we should read as many you know not make the wrong choice. Honestly nowadays there are so that making the wrong choice really devoid of any common sense, and actually you The most common wrong choice are actually buying stuff that because somebody who isn't them convinced The reality is that someone else's than the creator of that opinion and And this is because your preferences are person B, and the preferences of person B are We're all different people. I feel like the best way of finding out what you is buying a basic nice decent And then through its usage, finding out what time to replace that basic product, buy what Because I feel like genuine Yeah. Now a few words about the bike. Now my license allows me to drive I tried restoring a Kawasaki GPZ900R But then I realized that it was far too heavy So I went for something much more rational. Much lighter and much slower. And this is a Yamaha TZR125R. It's a single-cylinder 125CC which allegedly makes 28 horsepower. This is also a special edition known as not by Yamaha but by Belgarda, for At just a bit over 100 kilograms, the bike is extremely lightweight and The engine is actually Moto Minarelli Kinda lame before we reach 7K RPM, but then the YPVS system gets into its own, and unleashes the We also have Brembo brakes in the front and I really love flat top of the The headlight is aftermarket, and one didn't work and was repaired using I originally bought the bike because I I could ride without fixing it up too But it ended up needing a full rebuild. So, despite not wanting to spend time fixing it, and restoring it to proper I say mechanical glory, because The stickers are faded. The paint has many scratches. The fairings are missing a few pieces. But honestly I couldn't care less. I got new tires, all new fluids, and everything Looks are really not my priority here. The riding position is a bit on But I really like this, because the way is really what made me fall in Especially those from the 90s I like all bikes, but somehow sitting upright doesn't have the same special feeling as being So recently I read this somewhat cheesy and it says that the only person you should So six year old me, It's 28 years later, but who cares? It's still fun.