Did you know that the guy was also a co-founder the company behind Firefox. Then he went on to become What a small world. But you know what we're here for? Brave versus Firefox. Let's find out which is better. The only thing that unites these browsers so let's see what these promises First up, is Brave browser safe? Brave is an open source browser, meaning that its source code This way, the community that there is Brave used Chromium as a base, the same thing that Chrome, Edge, Opera But what sets it apart Brave explains it in three layers. The first one consists They block potentially harmful scripts cut off trackers to prevent websites and also prevent them Yet the best part of Brave Yes, I've seen a lot of reports While I noticed that myself I also have Brave browser for Android Anyway, one more Brave Shield which provides a more secure connection between your browser The second privacy layer There's a whole list of them, from encrypting data to adding a private browsing window which helps to achieve The third and final layer the policies and practices to safeguard user data Do you hear that Chrome? How simple is that? All right, now if we compare they're not so drastically different, but there are some distinctions For starters, it is not built on Chromium. It's one of the last major browsers and runs on an engine called Gecko. This gave Firefox a clean start, a base with already built-in safeguards Your browser history stays Well, unless you opt in to provide Speaking of that, there are quite a few which is nice. Just like Brave, HTTP connections to HTTPS connections, and has an enhanced that blocks trackers This feature has three modes: script for maximum protection, However, the Firefox browser For that you need a Firefox-uBlock combo or just get a VPN Those are super effective too. As I said, the two browsers But overall, Brave just has From Tor mode it adds up. But which browser is faster? Well, I spent some time Brave versus Firefox in this area. Firefox used to be a so-so choice especially in the early days, but then they upgraded Oh, 2017? Yes, and now it's fast, There are options like enabling hardware acceleration, and guess what? Keeping the browser updated. Brave Internet Browser is also speedy, and its ad and tracker blocker reduces Brave is slower but this makes sense, since data travels But if you're having issues, I found that keeping can sometimes improve the speed. Also, whitelisting some to stay active can help a lot. like the CoolTechZone YouTube page, You are already, right? Anyway, I don't see a clear winner Both options are good, Brave has its own, that Brave search results I've personally never noticed this. I honestly prefer mostly because my first search result and not a sponsored link But let me know in the comments I also think it's cool that Brave's independent index so it's free from the influence Then there's the so-called Goggles, that lets you influence search results Just like Google though, at the top of search results. Now, personally I don't need whether it's Brave or Google, Maybe some of you like it. Firefox doesn't have much to show here. The default search engine is Google. However, you can use If I were you, That way you won't get that many But yeah, Brave wins this round Now we get to my favorite part Features. Starting with Firefox web browser, I think it's one of the most and it's very sleek In terms of features, and yes, you can get but one of my favorite tools You can just click this little icon it just floats around by itself, which means I can watch this This isn't really beneficial but whatever, it's cool. I also like the PDF editor. There's much more stuff, such as eyedropper tool and a pretty decent password manager. I say decent but it's still nice Firefox VPN is also a thing, It's a separate product called but it's honestly very mid, I wouldn't recommend it. Looking into Brave features, Is it any better? No, no it's not. It only covers a handful of locations and doesn't have much so the price they're asking for All right, moving on. Honestly, you're much better off You know, like Surfshark, Any of those will do a much better job I'll link a couple of options That said, there are way more features Brave Talk, for example, is a secure video call at least in the free version. This handy tool removes Then there are vertical tabs, the Tor private browsing windows and a Brave wallet There's of course If you enable ads, you can earn BAT, But the payouts are tiny. They can be as little as nought point... Let me get the zeros right, and one whole BAT Overall, I gotta give I just found their features If we look at the final scoreboard, Overall, in my view, while Firefox is going to be for those who want cool features Anyway, I hope this video Let me know by dropping a like, and consider subscribing Thanks for sticking around,