This seemingly uninteresting patch of land, with its few surrounding villages, is one of the most important places on Earth, but almost no one has ever heard of it. Kept completely secret, erased from any maps for decades, this area we're heading straight into right now is where the Soviets during the arms race with America invented, tested, and detonated 456 of their nuclear and hydrogen bombs, the unaware locals of the region having later to bear its consequences forever. Equivalent to the Los Alamos of the United States, what the Soviet Oppenheimer would create here would change the course of history as we know it today. And there is evidence left behind of the work that was done. Abandoned bunkers, a radioactive lake, but most importantly, first-hand stories from the people who lived through it, who have survived. We've never spoken to anyone on camera before, until now. We'll be heading to this desolate wasteland called the Semipalatinsk Test Site, located in the northeast of Kazakhstan. The most nuked place on the planet. With a scientist and expert, Yerlin, the only person allowed to legally take people to this site. I don't think that any of us going into this trip, however, had fully grasped the importance of where we were headed to. 50 hours in the abandoned soviet nuclear testing site. Nice to meet you. One of the best smiles ever. It's a video. Ah, dude! Yeah, their energy is amazing. Their smiles are beautiful. You give good hugs. Hahaha! It's just like how Chernobyl episode started. Everyone was very jolly until we got there. You are a scientist? I am coincidentally both tour guide and also I have education in this field. I studied in the institute that was related to Soviet atomic industry, but the institute itself was established as a part of Soviet atomic project. To start our expedition and before our more intense exploration of the radioactive lake, we set course to what was likely the most secretive town in the USSR, the Los Alamos of the Soviet Union. Strangely enough, even though Los Alamos was completely dismantled, most of this town still remains. What's the name of this town that we're in right now? The city is named after prominent Soviet scientist, Igor Kurchatov. He was technical leader of whole Soviet atomic project. How would he compare to Oppenheimer? He was a counterpart or peer to Robert Oppenheimer. Before the war, he had quite different interests. He was engaged mainly in electricity research, in physics. He always dreamed about getting electricity and all kinds of energy, releasing other kinds of energy. His great big true passion was to using nuclear energy peacefully. He was engaged in nuclear research only due to the war and global politics. This settlement was established in 1947. It was never shown in maps. It was kept secret. It was not possible to buy train tickets for it. Local guys being recruited to Soviet army first were transported by airplane to Moscow and landed there, and then transported back here, and many of them truly served as if it was somewhere near Moscow. Wow. This was top, top secret. Yeah. So, we're going to step into an abandoned KGB building in one of the most secretive cities of the Cold War. The KGB was at the epicenter of the Soviet Union, serving both for domestic security and foreign intelligence. As a highly secretive organization, they were notorious for their surveillance tactics used for censorship and repression of political opposition. Amongst many other purposes. They were in charge of the secrecy of this nuclear project, and this was their headquarters. All of these abandoned Soviet buildings were looted. Everything was stripped for metals, parts, whatever was left behind when the Soviet army left, and people took advantage of that. So, this is what's left. This whole floor is falling apart. You'd say that this city was compared to the Soviet Union? And this city was comparable to Los Alamos? I mean, this town, yes. The first secrecy was much stricter here, much stronger. Yeah. And also much more effective. It's strange to think about how powerful the Soviet Union once was and to now be standing in its literal ruins. Especially, the KGB building was like the most powerful secretive wing of it. We are driving into the place that was dedicated to where the Soviet soldiers lived at the time. This whole place was deserted. As you can imagine, in an area with such a strategic importance, there was a lot of military infrastructure surrounding it. They said like, oh, this town's abandoned. This is like a mini city. This is massive. Way bigger than I expected. It's called the town of Chagat, in its best-time population, was 11,000 people. And after the USSR collapsed in 1994, we withdrew. So it was a secret city as well? Yeah. Besides the nuclear project, this area was also hiding a highly strategic and crucial long-range bomber base. As well as a city that housed all of its soldiers and families, now reminiscent of Chernobyl. Wow, they stole anything and everything. I mean, the floors, because they're the most enforced with steel. That's why they took the floors. Literally, everything is gone. Wow. It is really strange to be, like, we've been to a lot of abandoned buildings, but they usually just left. You know, they're not looted for the steel and the concrete. It almost resembles this complete imbalance of using resources and time and material to put in something that eventually meant nothing. And ultimately, people's own people wanted to feed their kids and do better economically, especially at a time where communism fell as the Soviet Union fell. Everybody must have been in just, like, this state of, like, wanting to just collect any resources that can help elevate their, them and their families out of the state that they were in. Although the soldiers of this unmarked town left, some of the locals who lived here and others who worked directly at the nuclear test site at the time still remain. Given the secrecy they lived in for so long, many refused to talk to us. However, after weeks of preliminary work from Yerlin, we found four people who agreed to share their stories, including one woman who is the last to live in this abandoned military town, and most who have never shared their stories ever before. As we make our way towards the exact places 456 bombs were detonated, we'd first hear four people's shocking stories who saw them in the sky. We worked as miners. We were making mine passages to prepare everything for the tests. In what year did you move here? When did you move here? In 1976. When he saw the test, it was the Soviet Union. And when he was working, it was already modern Kazakhstan. And the National Nuclear Center is involved in the elimination of the infrastructure and all the consequences of nuclear weapons testing at the Semipalatinsk Test Site. We didn't know it was so bad. Now everybody writes and talks about it. And then, what did we know? We didn't know anything. Just what the teacher taught at school. We worked for 30 minutes in places with high levels of radiation. If there was a low level of radiation, we could work longer. I believe that if the radiation dose was exceeded it would affect my health. Thank God, soon I'm turning 73 and I feel good. You look younger. (laughing) And was he aware of the world politics that drove all this activity? We knew everything and signed a non-disclosure agreement. we never talked about it. So if someone started talking, we never saw him again. In 1991 when the test site was closed and Kazakhstan declared a moratorium Everything broke up, people moved away and the Soviet Union collapsed. They just left. The military was reassigned to other places and went there. People were leaving but we continued to live and work here. Everyone had families and children to feed. The military moved away, and our family didn't have military, so we stayed here. From 1996 to 1999 we worked with the Americans. We were closing the mines. So he basically disconnected the last warhead that was... Did you participate in the demining of the unexploded bomb? Yes. It was an atomic bomb that was supposed to explode. It was a real bomb that we had time to install, So there was just a bomb here after the Soviet Union broke down. Yes. It stayed there for four years more. I don't think I've ever been a part of telling a story of such amplitude that has never really been told before. Like Chernobyl, people had told that story before. But here, people are speaking to us for the very first time. We're onto where we're staying tonight. Where has it taken us? Welcome to the USSR. First Soviet building, still interior is preserved as Soviet interior. Is it more people staying here? Nobody except... It is not commercial at all. It is corporate hotel. What? Guys, please get your passports. Passports will be returned in the morning. Okay. Okay. Time to check in our rooms. Right here. Why am I scared? Oh, wow. I have two beds in here. Then I guess we're sleeping in here because I don't dare to sleep alone. Hello, my friends. Being able to make videos and short documentaries like the one that you're currently watching is literally everything that I want out of life right now. So I feel very grateful that you are here watching and hopefully enjoying and learning lots. But they also would not be possible without sponsors. And in today's video that is BetterHelp. I've had periods where I've been successful and I've had periods where I've been very unsuccessful at setting goals. And what I found actually very useful has been using the help of a therapist to set those goals. And I found that to be a huge help when it comes to being consistent and actually being able to stick to what I'm telling myself that I want to do. BetterHelp makes starting therapy easier and a lot less intimidating for a lot of people. Because essentially, You can choose to have the therapy in whatever form you're most comfortable with, whether a phone call, video chat, or messaging. BetterHelp will give you access to one of their 30,000 therapists based on your needs, preferences, and location, which will give you access to a wider range of expertise than may be available in your city. You can start by clicking the link down below and then filling out a questionnaire about the current challenges that you are going through, and BetterHelp will then match you to a therapist based on your needs. If you feel like the therapist you're matched with isn't the one for you, you can switch with the click of a button at no additional cost. So if you want to support our channel and join the over 4 million people who have used BetterHelp, click the link in the description below or go to betterhelp.com/yestheory to get 10% off your first month. And now onto the rest of our story. It was now time to drive into the frozen desert to explore the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site. On this vast plain of dust was where more nuclear tests were conducted than any other place on Earth. The most nuked place on the planet. Criterias were quite strict to choose the land. First criteria was as low as possible density of population. Here it is less than 1 person per thousand square kilometers. In 1953, the first hydrogen bomb in the world was blasted. Between 400 and 500 kilotons. Six months earlier, USA already tested hydrogen technology but it was not a real bomb, it was just a hydrogen device. All accumulated arsenals of USA and USSR were able to kill every single life in the earth more than 600 times and literally crack the planet into pieces. - We could do what? Destroy all life in the planet more than 600 times and crack the planet, literally. - Six hundred times to destroy the earth. That makes me so, so sad. What point do you stop? At what point do you go, we have enough? You know. Like, I mean, is there any justification for having any ability to destroy the Earth once, you know? He said we have enough to crack the Earth in half. That's how many bombs we have. And that's in the power, that's in the hands of people that seem more and more erratic. Sometimes I'm not sure if the people who hold the launch buttons for those like fully comprehend their own, you know, their own consequence, right? Well, if someone decides to press a button, human civilization is pretty much over. Now headed to the command center where they detonated the bomb. So it's a bunker that is about 12 kilometers out. Wow. They used some thick steel here. It's so well enforced. So it was designed to bear direct atomic bombing. You see the walls are about two meters thick as well as the ceiling. Even the locals around here didn't know that this was happening here. Nobody knew. No. Whoa. Explain to people that at that time, No one knew about that test site. We didn't know what was being blown up there, It was strictly classified. So this is the entrance to an underground laboratory, 86 meters down. You see the hole, it is a door entrance and the cabin of the elevator. A guy descended there by rope. He says the equipment is still there, just flooded by ground water. We, the inhabitants, were taken outside the village. There was a ravine dug there And there we lay down. They always covered us with blankets, and the whole village lay there. Yerlan, is this where they detonated the bomb from? They used to tell us to leave the house in case it collapsed, a window or the door of the stove would open and ashes would fall out. Well, everything was shaking like that. The chandeliers were swinging like this. But you had to lay down because a shock wave can smash you. And it knocked people right off their feet. Soldiers would run to see if we were covered or not. One time I remember a soldier being swept away. What are you feeling right now? It's just so sad that we've spent all these resources and human power into just such ***** And we still do it. Semipalatinsk nuclear test site is the only place in the world where you can walk literally on nuclear test site. In all other places, you would only visit the museum. And even in those museums, you will be required to leave your cameras and the smartphones. It was time to head to the epicenter of it. We're on our way to one of the only accessible, yet still radioactive testing sites in Kazakhstan, Lake Chagan, which we will need protective gear for. On January 15, 1965, the Soviet Union tested a hydrogen bomb 11 times the strength of the bomb dropped on Hiroshima by the United States military in 1945. The 140-kiloton device was buried nearly 180 meters in the ground, and upon detonation, the blast created a crater of 454 meters wide and 100 meters deep, throwing soil nearly one and a half kilometers up in the air. The blast was so large that it took the dust nearly 50 days to settle, forming the current hills that now surround the crater. Shortly after the test, a nearby river was diverted to fill the crater and turn it into what locals now call the Atomic Lake. Do not pick anything from the ground. When walking, try to raise as little dust as possible. I didn't realize they were putting on heavy-duty stuff to avoid having any things contaminate our clothes. Before we get back in the car, we're going to have to take everything off. Who's going to put it in a trash bag? The most heavily contaminated areas of the test sites are completely fenced off from the public. This lake, however, has levels safe enough to approach with protective gear on. We must be careful about our time spent here in making sure we don't inhale or kick up any of the dust below the snow. Of course it affected people's health. People have cancer. Cancer, cancer, cancer, cancer... There was radiation. And people started getting sick. Are there a lot of people getting sick? Yeah, a lot. There are the books from the hospital where only cases of radiation and anemia are written. We were kids back then and we didn't understand anything. Even adults didn't know that the mushroom cloud was more dangerous than vibration or broken windows. After the explosions, the radiation was blown around by the wind. But we didn't realize anything. It's so crazy that we're like this. We are in where the nuclear explosion happened. All this is unnatural. All this dust that you're seeing, all these hills, it's just the displaced soil that was inside the crater. First, there's a big flare. And then there's the mushroom that comes out. Well, I'm telling you, we were kids, but there was a feeling inside that something bad was being done. Well, there's like a stem coming up from the ground, and then there's like this big cap made of gas, I guess. And then it would scatter to the ground and that's it. Older people, everyone was afraid. Because everything became dark there, everything was covered in dust, the feeling was terrible. There was a terrible wind, a hurricane. Because of dust, it was so black that it looked like in the night. It's crazy the scale of it when you're in it. How did one explosion make all of this? And why? And why, yeah, exactly. Why, that's a great question. Why? Have you ever heard anyone being affected by the nuclear test? Well, we're all being told now that these diseases we're getting are because of the tests. There were nuclear emissions. In 1989, I was pregnant with my son And he was born with congenital cataracts. 16 diopters. I believe it was caused by radiation. The radiation exposure. I read about it in the medical encyclopedia. We saw helicopters over the city measuring something. Now we understood there was a radiation release at that time. Some children were born with disabilities. Our parents covered us, but not themselves. My mom died of cancer at 49. His father and mother also died of cancer. Any colleagues in work who did similar work to him that have had health complications that affected them in a negative way? - Yes, a lot of them. - The ordinary people suffered. Many ordinary people suffered. On the very spot we are walking, we see a bomb that could have incinerated an entire city. As we walk on the ashes of the very definition of destruction, one cannot help but feel existential about how our fear of those we consider our enemy drove some of humanity's greatest minds to bring such carnage into existence. Having all been up close to such destruction, we wanted to know how they all felt about the current state of the world. As someone who's participated in kind of dismantling the system after the Soviet Union collapsed, and seeing the world kind of descend into another Cold War, and the threat of nuclear war rising again and being at an all-time high since then. I feel very badly about it, of course. An achievement is an achievement, every state develops its armament. But I would like to have a peaceful sky over my head, to have no conflicts with anyone. And we, Kazakhstani people, want to have peace everywhere. I also call on all those countries that have nuclear weapons to reduce it or even be like Kazakhstan. We are in favor of nuclear-free armaments, always. You have a great-grandson here and your grandson. What is your message to all the young people in the world? I want to say that people all over the world should live in harmony and in peace. That our future generation should grow up healthy and strong, and do more sports! Any kind of sport. He runs every day and he goes to the swimming pool still to this day. The Soviet Union no longer exists. Now, at this moment people still confuse, they do not distinguish between the Soviet Union and modern Kazakhstan. Because what Kazakhstan is doing now is very important for the whole world. Because it is an example for the whole world to give up all this, And I want people to understand it properly and realize how bad it is. Because among today's youth there are future ambassadors and ministers, so they should have a clear formation of this idea. Of course, war is terrible, guys, it's very scary. Now Ukraine is at war with Russia. It's very scary. Young guys are dying there. I'm a mother who has a 34-year-old son. My nephew went to war for six months. My sister lives in Russia. And it's horrible. It's terrible. I'm against the war. I don't understand people who support the war. I would say, why do you countries fight among yourselves? You should be friends, visit each other, trade with each other, help each other. You shouldn't fight. Peace, we need peace. And we need to help each other, and go to visit, and meet each other, and see each other off, to live like neighbors. That's great. We need peace. I want all countries to abandon Kazakhstan abandoned all its nuclear weapons, although it had fourth-biggest nuclear arsenal in the world. I wish all countries behave the same way. Medal for 20th anniversary of dismantling the nuclear test site. It's his, no? Yeah, it is. What? Present, present. Wow. Thank you. Wow. It's for all of you. Amazing. Just gifted us the medal of closing the test site. Are you sure? Yes, please take it, from the bottom of my heart. Thank you. You can tell him that we will protect it and spread peace as far as possible with his messages. Yeah. Have a good day. Goodbye.