- I been watching that new OJ show. I can't get enough of that shit. Doesn't it bring back good memories? I forgot just how And, you know, I've met OJ Simpson on four different occasions in my life. And before the end of the show, I will tell you about The first time I met OJ - [Man In Audience] Santa Monica! Yeah. I can't believe a black (audience laughing) He was the last nigga I Let me see your shoes. You got some Vans on, nigga? What you got? (audience laughing) Santa Monica! At the time, I was 18. I had done a show and then and was like, hey, OJ Simpson's here and he said he wants to meet you. I said, what? Fuck yeah. I ran down the steps. And OJ was down there, was like, &quot;It's very good to meet you. &quot;And you're doing really good work, &quot;and I hope good things I was like, &quot;Man, thanks, Mr. Juice.&quot; (audience laughing) Standing beside him. I don't know the nice way to say this. His soon-to-be-slain wife. (audience laughing) Ladies and gentlemen, man the fuck up, or you're not gonna make it Just man the fuck up. (audience laughing) She's dead. You already know. We know what happened. We don't know who did it, but we know what happened. I should tell you that She actually embraced me. She said, &quot;I think you're adorable,&quot; and she hugged me. She goes, &quot;Good luck to you,&quot; and she held me for a long time, and I whispered in her ear, &quot;Bitch, are you trying (audience laughing) I'm just kidding, I didn't say that, but. That was the first time in a nutshell. The second time I met OJ Simpson. (audience cheering) Was right after the trial of the century. There I was, now a young OJ Simpson was the most famous or infamous face on planet Earth. I was in a restaurant in I wasn't alone in the restaurant, but I was alone. I was the only black And in the 90s, that Now I tend to enjoy it at this age. (audience laughing) I was having dinner with my agent, celebrating a deal that but I later learned fucking sucked. And suddenly, a group of women walked by. Every race was in that group. Black, white, Asian, Latina, They were all gorgeous. I watched them walk by. Then I saw a familiar face. Al Cowens, the man from walked by and embraced one of the women and they walked towards the door. Couldn't believe what I saw. And then close behind him was OJ Simpson, newly released from jail. The restaurant fell still. I was shocked. I didn't mean to say it out loud, but it just came out. (gasping) &quot;OJ!&quot; He stopped, turned around saw my black face and (audience laughing) I was sitting in the corner of the booth. He leaned over all the white and shook my hand. &quot;How are you, young man?&quot; He looked in my eyes and that he didn't remember (audience laughing) And then he walked away. And I looked back at my agents and all of them had nothing And the only one with the was a woman named Sharon &quot;How could you?&quot; She said. &quot;How could you shake I said, &quot;Sharon, with all due respect, &quot;that murderer ran for over 11,000 yards.&quot; (audience laughing) And he was acquitted, Glove didn't fit. Glove didn't fit. Get over yourself. The third time I met OJ Simpson. (audience cheering) Third time I met OJ Simpson, I just finished the second (audience cheering) Man, those were good days. I was playing a comedy I don't know if you've ever been, but if you have, you'd know the door for the greenroom Can you imagine such a thing? If I walked out of the I'm just right here, right And I did that. I walked out and the whole And I looked, ma'am, as I saw him as soon as And I saw recognition in his eyes and it filled me with pride I didn't acknowledge his presence because it was a white audience, and I didn't wanna start a panic. (audience laughing) But I did my show. Show went great. I said, &quot;Goodnight, everyone.&quot; They all said yay! And I didn't say nothing to OJ, but I just gave him the signal to let him know I knew he was there. (audience laughing) And I walked into the greenroom, and OJ was already in there! (audience laughing) I was like, how the fuck is this possible? I was scared. And then my friends came in and we all started talking. We sat there on the couch. And I'm just telling you You can believe me or not believe me, but in my experience, OJ Simpson, one of the nicest men I'd ever met. He was nice to met, conversation was filled with And wisdom. We talked for 90 minutes, and then suddenly The Juice said, &quot;You know what? &quot;I've gotta be going. &quot;But it's good to see you again, &quot;and I'm glad things went so well.&quot; I said, &quot;Thank, Juice.&quot; And my friends said, They're new to the game. (audience laughing) He said, &quot;No, thank you &quot;Goodnight, guys.&quot; And we said, &quot;Goodnight.&quot; And he just walked out of the room. And as soon as the door closed, we all looked at each other (audience laughing) I could feel, like, murder in the room. Wait, wait, wait, wait, I forgot. The fourth time I met OJ Simpson. (audience cheering) The fourth time is not the funniest time, but it was the last For some reason I was It's a very long story. This is right after I in spectacular fashion. There was a party hosted by Michael Jordan and every athlete I had ever Yes. And then I saw a familiar face by the bar standing there, drinking alone. It was Chris Tucker. Now, you have to remember, at this time, we were both technically missing. (audience laughing) And we went over and we're and motherfuckers were Seeing me and Chris Tucker at that point would be like seeing You wouldn't believe that's And then through all the gawkers, a familiar face pushed through the crowd. Here it was again, The Juice. He had his camera ready. He was like, &quot;Dave, Chris, &quot;Hey, come on, guys. &quot;Let's all get together for a picture.&quot; And at the same time, me Can't do that. Sorry, Juice, my career's too flimsy to survive a picture with you. (audience laughing) That's the end. Good night. (upbeat instrumental music) (audience cheering)