Went into high school, 5' 4&quot;, 286 pounds. I was a heavyweight wrestler my freshman year. And then I grew a little bit going into my sophomore year. I lost 100 pounds, wrestled 189 my sophomore year. And then my junior and senior year, I grew to this height, and I wrestled 171 those years. And I loved it. I loved wrestling. But I went to a small school, and the colleges didn't come around. And I was stupid. I was. I was not a smart guy. I'm smart, but I had a reading comprehension problem. I'm dyslexic. There's not a lot of options for that. My guidance counselor at school said you're probably going to drive a gas truck just like your dad. Get ready for that. And that's what I thought my life was gonna consist of. But these Air Force recruiters kept on calling me my junior year in high school. He's like, you want to join the Air Force, son? I'm like, sir, I'm not smart enough to take that ASVAB test. He's like, don't worry about that test, son. I'll tell you how you take that test. I'm sure-- do we got any veterans in here? Anybody serve in the military in this room tonight? [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] Just really-- if you did and you're able to, will you stand up really quick? I want this room to see you. If you served in the military here, let me see you. Let these people see you. [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] These are hometown heroes right here. Thank you, each and every one of you, for your service. That's outstanding. So this recruiter tells me, don't worry about that ASVAB test. He goes, here's the deal. 90% of the answers are C. And if it says all the above, it's all of the above. And the rest of them, just guess. I'm like, well, I can do that. And so I took this ASVAB test, and I aced it. And all of sudden, the Air Force is like, come on in. Join the United States Air Force, son. And so I did. My summer before my senior year, I went to basic training at Lackland, San Antonio. I came back, and I did my senior year in high school. And then I had the summer off, and then I had to report to tech school in Biloxi, Mississippi. And then I got my orders. You know what the first job the United States Air Force gave me? They made me a pharmacy specialist. I don't think you guys are keeping up with the story here 'cause-- --I'm dyslexic with a reading comprehension problem. And now you want me to hand out medication I can't read? I probably got some kills under my belt I'm not aware of is all I'm saying. [APPLAUSE] They finally-- they let me switch jobs. And then I became a combat medic. And I got based out of Turkey. I was in Adana, Turkey at Incirlik Air Force Base during Desert Storm. That's what I did as a triage nurse during Desert Storm. [APPLAUSE] Thank you for that. [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE] And I do my time in the Air Force. My last base was Norton San Bernardino, California. And I end up going to college, University of Redlands. And I graduated college. Believe it or not, I got a college degree. And then I couldn't get a job, though. I couldn't get the job. But these Marine Corps guys were always up at the university, like, hey, son, you want to be an officer in the United States Marine Corps? Well, all right, I guess so. I don't know. Let me call my dad. I call my dad. My dad was enlisted Army. My dad's like, son, you are too stupid to be an officer and in charge of anybody. You tell them guys that you can't be an officer, but you'll go in enlisted. OK. So I call the-- I call the Marine Corps back. I'm like, my dad says I can't be an officer in the United States Marine Corps, but can I go in enlisted? They're like, well, son, you can. But let me tell you what's gonna happen here. I was an E-4 buck sergeant in the Air Force. They're like, we're gonna take two stripes away from you. We're gonna drop you down to E-2, and we're gonna send you back to boot camp in MCRD, San Diego. And you're gonna start all over. I'm like, well, yippee skippy, let's do that, all right? So they let me ship, though. They sent me off to boot camp three pounds overweight. They let me ship off. And when I got to MCRD, San Diego, they put me on PCP. And that's not the drug folks. It's the Pork Chop Platoon, all right? It's a Physical Conditioning Platoon where they send fat guys like me that are overweight. And I get sent to this platoon. It was water weight, folks. I lost that 3 pounds, probably, the first day. The problem was they didn't update the paperwork when they dropped me off to my present platoon. So I get put with my permanent platoon. And they don't-- I'm still on this diet. I'm going to chow hall, sitting directly across from another guy that's fat. And here's two guys on double rations. And I gotta watch this guys eat cake and cookies and ice cream while they're trying to gain weight. Me and this guy, quarter head of lettuce, scoop of rice, scoop of Jell-O, two glasses of water. Hydrate. Get in, get out. And it's killing me. It's killing me. My senior drill instructor, Staff Sergeant Wilson, was the biggest Black man I'd ever seen in my life. And he had that soothing James Earl Jones voice. And he's like, recruits, if you ever have a problem, come knock on the duty hut. Come on in. We'll talk like men. I'm like, well, I think this guy likes me, so I'm gonna go in there and talk to him about this diet. And I knocked on that duty hut. He's like, come on in, recruit. And I go stand in front of that desk. He's like, what's the problem, son? I'm like, it's the diet, sir. I've lost that weight, and I'm starving. He's like, what's your name? I'm like, Clifton. He grabs my file, and he puts it out on his desk. He's like, huh, United States Air Force here, huh? Combat medic, highly decorated. And then he goes right back and goes, wait a minute-- United States Air Force private? He's like, you were a daggone fly boy? And he throws my file out of his office. He does, get your fat, chunky butt out of my office. Get in the classroom. You're gonna push up for the next 13 weeks. And they call it beating your face. And I did that for 13 weeks. Some kid in China probably has a dent in their forehead from how much I humped that ground. I'm just saying. It was brutal, man. And I did my time in the Marine Corps, and I got my deployments. And I ended up-- I got hurt while I was in the Corps. And once you're not 100% with the Corps, they're kind of done with you, you know? And so they started pushing me out. But I wasn't done with the military yet. The Army will take anybody, so-- --I did what they call going blue to green. I went from the Marine Corps to the Army. I was military police. I was corrections in the Corps. And we all trained together at Lackland and Fort Lost in the Woods. So I knew what I was doing. And the Army was like, come on in, son. And I was happy with the Army. I liked it. Because I was like, man, I'd had my deployments, man. I'd seen war. I've seen the things I didn't-- and done things I didn't want to do. But I'm like, I still wanted to serve my country. And so I'm like, I filled out my dream sheet. You guys who've served in the military, you might want to-- a dream sheet, man. I saw all these people getting based in really cool places like Hawaii and Okinawa and Iceland and all these-- I'm like, man, I want to go to those bases. So I filled out my dream sheet. And I put all these cool bases down. You know where I got based? Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, 12 miles from my stinking house-- 12-- 12 miles from where I grew up! Parents are driving by, checking up on you. You're like, Sergeant Clifton, your mom's at the front gate. I'm like, ah, man. And I finally, I got what they call med boarded out of the military. I fought them. I wanted to stay in for 20, but I got 13 in. I'm 100% disabled. And, you know, God's good, and he looks after me. But it was crazy, though. I found this comedy thing along the way, trying to just get my mind right. I live in Los Angeles, and I'd be going to the VA there, just trying to get therapy and trying to get through my things and some of the dark things that I had to do in the military. And every time I'd go, it would be some USC student or some UCLA student. And I'd have to start all over and tell them my story. And I'd go the next time. And they graduated. And now I have somebody new. And I was always-- it's just my gut was always in a knot. I came home one day, and my wife's like, what's wrong? And I'm like, I can't keep on going on like this. I said, I'm not getting what I need here. And I went in my office, and I got out a piece of paper. And I'm like, what can I do? What can I do? I gotta heal me. I gonna figure out this. I don't want to be one of those statistics. I don't want to be one of those 22 a day. And I took out a piece of paper. And I wrote combat to comedy on the top of this paper. And underneath that, I wrote the number 300. Folks, here's the deal. I can't change any of the things I did in my past. I raised my hand three times and said I'll defend this country against all enemies, foreign and domestic. And I meant that. And I signed that check. And I can't change yesterday. I can't. And after this heart attack, folks, I don't know if I'm gonna be here tomorrow. All I know is that I can live in five-minute increments. I can live in 300 seconds. And if I can get through this five minutes, I'll get through the next five minutes. And before you know it, tomorrow's here, and I've lived another day. And I win. The demons didn't catch me. And that's how I live my life. That's how I live my life. [CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]