Soon after returning from the Hot for Teacher, Roth wasted no time finishing California Girls. At his who many say was the leading shows, merchandise, et cetera. He even came up with the company, Picasso Brothers, Four years later, Angelus left Roth. Due to Roth's increasingly decisions, Roth would repay Angelus by creative endeavors and leaving from the Heat. Angelus said It was my decision 1989 for a number of reasons and taking credit for my work payback. I guess either that or he is himself of his little fairytale. Forget about it Dave, but for now, the Roth and Angelus's video duo This, is the world premier of David Beach Boys Classic California At midnight on January 1st, 1985, central Time MTV premiered California Girls and just earlier, it would become a smash hit Billboard and his EP selling It was easy for some to outshining his band. David Lee Roth had quickly superstar solo act while if Roth was leaving Van Halen. He repeatedly insisted that band from Pasadena. He was merely flexing his album was just a fun side project. Roth told the LA Times in January, 1985. Van Halen is not breaking up The band has always had conflict, but how can you have the big the middle? True. A rock band is a very fragile it's going to explode, but we manage to keep it together when we're not working, we have very different makes the arguments much Dave told one reporter Arlet his main focus. Oh yeah. It's still my number one project. I love being a rock star. Where A solo tour? No, we're going We're gonna start arguing I've heard half the music and it's great. Different from the last one. I always think I know what Van always a day late and I'm Was Roth putting on a show start of 1985 still Eddie was also denying that Van Halen camp. When asked on February 18th, up, Edward said no. The band went in the studio in January. We're waiting for David's record we'll get serious about From January through May, 1985, many things were said between multiple books, magazines, and news articles and via insiders, I believe I can give you the the breakup, but if you please let me know in the comments. Here are the sparks Ed was working on the He told Templeman his Ed told Steve Rosen we go in around or whatever. Then all of a sudden I which was no major thing basically anyways is we write Roth did some work on the next album, but stated he did not like the music. Ed believed he was too Over a period of a month, Roth total work on the album time they fired their or according to Ed, Monk quit since he did not Roth dropped another surprise, hit in classic video with Just Roth was a very hot Roth was working on a script Angelus. He asked Ed to Ed said no thanks. In March, Ed met Roth at Roth mansion but unlike reported elsewhere, this was not the last Before the breakup, Roth suggested Alex's Moving forward, Alex suggested doing a stadium gigs. Roth said no thanks. Roth wanted the band to take a movie. Ed told Roth he could expect complete all aspects of making for Roth. Roth told Ed that with no he would not be singing on the new album. According to Pete Angelus, at there was a group call he was take a one year hiatus. On April 3rd. Ed and Roth were seen the members of Van Halen when annual American Video Awards. And secondly, I wish I was I love it. I love it. Good. Perhaps we could share this anything yet. I wanna thank.. Stewart said that about to what Roth said about him. In a recent LA Times quote Roth said. Video has made personality a popular music. Our biggest stars are technically Rod Stewart, Bette Midler. This is not Cosmopolitan cover material, and yet these are our most their personalities. It's over Johnny. It's over. It's very clear the water ending to many relationships So I want to be clear that a on my part. After months trust me, no one truly knows Even the people that were Roth himself admittedly will needs and Ed was so deep into how paranoia affected its Sometime by September, 1985, Roth's movie got green lit with Theatrical Films. CBS had seen how the artist budget with his movie Purple $70 million box office windfall. So why not take a gamble on making music for the film. Roth had to start putting soundtrack, but at this point that did not He was just moving forward In his mind, it was a temporary separation Dave didn't want the party to end, but he did wanna make But we do have strong June, 1985, Van Halen had not parted ways sides may have still Why are you doing this? What We could work together. Why be enemies? 'cause we're different. Is that why? Why can't we all just get along? In early June, 1985, Billy Sheehan was in town to Talas opening for Yngwie He arrived a couple of days meet with Roth. Angelus had called Sheehan's office to alluded that it was something Eddie to invite him to see mentioned to Ed that he was Ed freaked out and told Sheehan pulling an Ozzy, referring to how Ozzy At this point, Sheehan knew almost nothing He only knew Roth had asked Smartly, Sheehan played a bit dumb friends with Ed. On the other hand, he may be getting a gig Back in 1982, Eddie was asked if he had any His answer foreshadowed his his band mate, he said, I write the music for So it's more or less a I'm building a studio at home written a lot of material that's so I might do something one day, but not in the foreseeable future. A lot of people tend to do they're the ones in the Blackmore, where is he now? And it's his fault. Deep Purple was one of the June 14th, 1985. Ed called author Steve Rosen the transcript of which was excellent book ToneChaser. I believe in the accuracy but what is missing is Ed told Rosen that he had said to Roth, I want to know before this sitting today, I want to know what the deal record or do you not? According okay, well gimme the And then I just said, Hey man, if you have to think about it, And that's how it ended. There is no mention of when and Ed took place. Was Was it back in March? We don't know. What was clear on that call moving on with his movie If Ed was uncertain before June, the call from Sheehan sealed it. Please. Get outta my Van Halen t-shirt they break up. So did David Lee Roth quit He never said I quit, but when he was given an ultimatum by Ed, he was non-committal to the band. Many times in the press Roth declared he quit the band. He said. When I left Van Halen, it was not something that I was not celebrating. I was not relieved. It was one of the scariest And when asked by Cream did you officially leave? Oh yeah, I bailed. Pure and simple. - I walked, it was a question of I There's plenty of hours in the day. We can start anytime you want. Do you want to start at Do you want to start at That's fine too, but we start I brought this movie to come on guys, let's do this. We'll make the music. I We'll make a stage show. No, no, no, no. We were just a band man and and stay in the studio. Really? How long? We'll better give it a year. A year. Alright. My last record was only four songs long. It took me five days. A year. As we learned earlier, Roth's not afraid to fabricate and maybe in this case, he felt he would be better he left Van Halen instead But someone who has never been Billy Sheehan. When Sheehan met Roth in the day after he spoke to I've left Van Halen and I want to cloud the waters even more. The July 4th issue of Rolling blurb that stated Van Halen who's rumored to be scouting is writing songs with Patty collaborate with Pete Townsend. he intends to pursue an developing his own movie. Pete Angelus remembers being saying, will you look at this shit? We just had an agreement and everybody was on board. He then remembers talking what exactly is going on here? Because I thought everybody Angelus recalls Alex being response. Oh no. Oh no. That's bullshit man. We're not gonna sit around movie. You've gotta pick Go fuck yourself. According to Angelus, I was No one is sitting around and movie. A few weeks ago we were talking Van Halen to take a year off that's bullshit, man. We're not going to be in a Maybe we should just take It's not you, it's me. It's what? It's what I'm going through. Another breadcrumb that makes Roth in early June after the when Ted Templeman got the news no more in Templeton's excellent book he says At that point the breakup. So I know someone in Van Halen's And he went on to say, sometime shortly after I maybe around mid-June, I called Sammy Hagar to discuss more than a few interviews. Sammy has said that apparently conversation that Dave had I don't remember saying I only mentioned it in passing with why I called him. I can say with certainty unvarnished truth. I never ever would've wanted join Van Halen in 1985. I wanted Dave in that band own because he had built some record, and I was looking forward to step forward in his career. Ed was getting pressure from not using the Van Halen name regardless of the singer, president of the group's record was seriously concerned that the band wouldn't even be Waronker said, I went up and I had a meeting was pretty adamant. Usually when a band of it's very difficult to continue the same band. It is clear that by mid-June 1985, Ed was looking for a new singer. His first impulse after Roth's all-star record replacing Roth singers using a different He drew up a list of his contacted Pete Townsend When talking to writer Ed asked Rosen to find him a belter Bon Scott. So it made sense that Ed Scottish born Australian Barnes was mates with Scott and fraternity when Scott left for AC/DC, but Barnes turned it down in mid 2023. Former deep purple belter that Eddie may have offered sober. According to Patty but she too turned it down. Journey's vocalist Steve Perry got a call from Ed and play, but it went nowhere. Ironically, Eric Martin was up for the job when Perry stepped out. The future Mr. Big Singer Martin was supposed with Van Halen, but was In comes Claudio Zampolli. Sammy My car mechanic, Claudio Zampolli One day when Eddie was picking up his car, he was telling Claudio that Dave quit. Nobody knew it wasn't public saw my black Ferrari 512, the car I used in the video wow, nice car. Whose is it? Claudio said, You should call him and get him in the band. Ed called Hagar meeting and jam session for the same week. It should be noted that this was thought of for the role of in 1977 when Ted Templeman was the band, it was evident that and it was none other than mind as a possible replacement. Templeman had produced Hagar's Montrose just a few years earlier. He even mentioned it But after getting to know Roth better, he started to understand why at the time. On July 15th, Hagar went to 5150 with couldn't believe the stench Beer cans everywhere and According to Sammy, Al and made fun of Hagar's new like somebody put a donut At first in Hagar's mind, he was not going to join Van Halen. His main reason for going there Ed for his own band or maybe his next album. After Al and Ed were ready to bring Van Halen. However, but later that night he played and he loved it. Hagar said, I got the goosebumps all I realized it was Cream all over again. My favorite rock band ever, which was also Ed's favorite band. Hagar called his manager and Halen. In late July of 1985, Eddie delivered the bad news issue of Rolling Stone. Surprisingly, this major music news was Notes section and buried beneath he and Valerie were doing. Why would the news of the breaking up be such a small Eddie. Eddie and Valerie journalist Merle Ginsberg, the exclusive news while in David Letterman appearance. Ginsberg had previously met first Letterman appearance Ed told Ginsberg many secrets that night, but urged her to keep them quiet. Ginsberg did so Ed gave the lifetime. Rolling Stone publisher Jann Wenner believed the but honored Ginsberg's exclusive Random Notes column. It was Ed and Valerie's request love for each other than Ed did provide his perspective He said the band, as you know it is over. Dave left to be a movie star. He even had the balls to ask Me, I'm looking for a new material ready to go stuff wanted to sing. It's a If he can't scream over I just sat around and waited until now. Now he's got the It's weird that it's over 12 with his bullshit. The first public sighting of come on September 13th, 1985 where Hagar gave a lecture on driving. Then later that night, all of the guys in the new out in force for the MTV Video singer was up for eight This is the new Van Halen. This is the heavy duty model. It weighs less faster and What is the highlight of the This. This is what it's all about, This is the actual version of Van Halen. The other one was just kind speak. And on the same night, Sam wasted no time in firing insinuating Dave might be interviewer's head towards Sam for a kiss. Guys, no wait. We don't do that in America. you, you can't kiss People will think you're like Dave People like Boy George. There had still been no official replacing Roth. Behind the scenes. Warner Brothers were Hagar's label to bring him over. Sammy, who was one of Geffen records' Geffen records three more releases. At the request of Ed's longtime he agreed to perform and debut Halen at the inaugural Farm Aid show. Farm Aid was an all star musicians, Willie Nelson, John After the words of Bob Dylan Dylan said during his performance concert, wouldn't it be great if we did Right here in America? Bob. You know what. They didn't do nothing. That guy is great. Sammy Hagar. He is one of I believe, who can toss And and sing at the same time. Sing and control air traffic special microphone he He's wonderful. Yeah. We had expected, perhaps the new group with Sammy Hagar. He is supposedly going to Halen. Maybe we'll get a taste of that. We're not sure. Well, I hope so because we've still got And lots more too. But right now we're gonna go else we are gonna see. On September 22nd, 1985, Ed joined Hagar to jam on LED cover of the Trogs Wild the Red Rocker let profanity This is a song for all you tractor pulling Dicks too small goddamm how'd they know that? Bullshitting? Well shit, I'm scared shitless. I got One Good thing we're all America. FUCK yeah! Lick my butt suck on my balls America. yeah. And we don't know any songs as a band, so we're just gonna jam a on. Okay, let's go. So after Hagar and Ed the Nashville Network cut and what we all missed was them announcing that Hagar was Halen. David Lee Roth and Alright. Lemme ask you a question. What side you take in the split? What do you mean? What kind of question is that? What side did you take Halen or Roth. Van Halen? He's a cop. Oink. Oink. Strictly a judgment call. They sold a lot of records All right, everybody, I gotta Let's try and get it right. When Roth left the Van Halen organization, he ended up taking most of him. But it must be noted that this Roth over Van Halen. As Roth It was because many of the crew July of 1985 from the The idea was to wind everything build it back up. Once Before Sammy officially joined, there just wasn't any work for the crew, but Roth needed workers so he hired them onto his team. Many of the crew would Within a few years, Hagar's manager Ed Leffler manager replacing Noel Monk. In the beginning, Roth and Ed's differences Eddie was the musician An introvert balanced by an extrovert, an artistry balanced by perhaps it was their similarities that killed the band. They both but were working towards different goals. Roth wanted to expand the party they already had different Roth saw himself as the band leader, but Ed quietly knew that So he felt he was the natural leader. They both wanted to make iconic music. Roth wanted the hit records adulation from fans. And Ed wanted to please which was never satisfied. They both had appetites that ego drenched mindsets that out it wasn't the other guy's fault. I doubt any of us would be any countless people you The reason Van Halen rocked. Over the next few years, both camps would hurl have successful albums, tours, But in my opinion, neither ever impacted music Alex, Eddie, Dave and Michael. The Van Halen band Between September 2nd, 1984 rose to the same league as Led Zeppelin. AC/DC, and Cream. On behalf of all the fans I'd like to express our members for their incredible world of music. Your unique sound and energy some of our fondest memories impression on us. Thank you Rest in peace Edward Van Halen. What else is left? Insanity. Hey, we know how to do heart. We know how to do What's it? Bomb. Sing? 1, 2, 3.