My name is Shanduke McPhatter, also known as Trife Gangsta. I'm one of the first-generation leaders of the Gangster Killer Bloods. This is &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; New York is just broken up If you're wearing certain it will bring attention to you, especially if you are a Some of them don't care. they're going to shoot your block up, they're going to shoot I've been able to stop because of my life experience, The United Blood Nation is a culmination of several different New York-founded sets that came together to create And I was recruited by Rikers Island is one of in the world. It's not a prison. It is a And Rikers have always had New York Bloods started on Rikers Island, and it trickled down to the streets, versus some places where into the jails. I was 16 when I first got involved. When I was recruited, it I became one of the people who actually were From '94 in and out, getting involved with and then come home. So I was known as one of the first Bloods in the streets of New York as well. New York recruitment, I've from my experience where for you to get in the and just shoot up a block. Recruitment in New York from recruitment in LA and other states. You definitely have to That's your oath being said And you have to recite it in front of whoever the witnesses are. When G-Shine came about, GKB came about, it had a reason under And the reason was the cleanup set. And the cleanup set job was to make sure that any set under United the rules, regulations, and protocol. So G-Shine, and the Shine in Networking toward Elevation. It trickled down into other It went worldwide. The main projects in Brooklyn, New York, that G-Shine operated out We used to have mass Hundreds of Bloods just coming Building, meeting, relaxing. New York, the boroughs Brooklyn is known for something, And then you had a lot of West Indians that were living in East Flatbush and were known for being Crips. It really also had to that were the original leaders, that actually came out of jail, that went into those boroughs, that really grew those So you got sets like 1/8 Third, which people know is in a When I speak about Soundview, right? You know Soundview Bloods were So that's how New York I believe the projects in to gun violence, leads to gang violence, leads to gang and recruitment. Lack of resources, broken because of welfare and overpolicing. There's a lot of historical issues when you growing up in NYCHA Young people today don't this projects, gots I'm from Wyckoff. Gowanus And there was a time where they had beef, and it was a block that separated them. I was a catalyst to be able to stop Wyckoff and Gowanus from beefing. That's one of the main things is that the generational beef And then you're talking So now, if I'm on this and your projects is right there, I might feel like you and that might create a problem as well. If you are affiliated, and somebody in your And you happen to be outside with them, and they happen to be watching, and they take a picture that's how they get a lot of just off a conspiracy. You had a conversation with you're affiliated, you're There are a lot of that have never committed a crime. Affiliated and respected, but and/or women. So yeah, they definitely Before I touched a drug, No father, grew up in the projects, mom's getting food stamps. After coming from foster care, I became a product of my environment. And it was easier just to take the gun and go rob somebody. Before the gun, it was I'm a '78 baby, so I grew and that's when you really had a overrun of crack cocaine in our neighborhoods. And I feel like that attribute to a lot of mental health Nobody really talks about and what they've experienced in life, and where they at, and what I came out of prison, and there I worked and I sold drugs. I mean, I preferably chose to make sure that I didn't do any federal crimes, especially being a known So I made sure that if anybody that we never got any From dark to sunup, and there I ain't get no sleep, because I wanted every I don't care if I sold $200 to $2,000, and I'm going, I'm calling and I'm flipping that immediately. That's my mind, flip it. Once you flip it, you doubling your money. I remember I was selling crack one time, and a friend of mine that She was pregnant, and she And I was like, &quot;You pregnant.&quot; She was like, &quot;So?&quot; I was like, &quot;Yeah, I can't do that.&quot; She's like, &quot;Well, somebody It ain't going to be me, right? And that's when I really It made me feel like a bad person. It just didn't sit right with me, right? There's some people who don't care. They don't care what you look like. They just want that dollar. I've never been that to take a dollar no matter the morals and the principles that came behind it. You got a gentleman by the name of OG Mack who allegedly went to the West Coast, learned about the Bloods and came back and July 16, 1993. That's why you got Nine Trey, It wasn't, &quot;We're going to kill Crips,&quot; like what you all was It was, &quot;We're going protect We want to stop oppression on Rikers.&quot; Originally, when you first became Blood, there was the way of identification. All the Bloods used to get dog You could identify a Blood by just seeing that they had their burns, their dog paws in their arm. And so that's an example of something that hasn't happened in many, many years. There's a saying that people here today, they say it all the time, It's like, you have a dub, right? That's a dub. That's East Coast Blood lingo, That started from a code that And that code meant no good. So that's an example of some of the lingo that has became part of urban music, urban society right there. We had a thing called That's actually one of the first codes that Bloods used in state prison. And it was a term of And today people say it in, They be like, &quot;Yo, I'm People don't know where it derived from, but it derived from the Gangster Killer Because in state prison, codes because at that time, in New York state prisons. So it was so much opposition, the only way to communicate especially in maximum facility prisons. Everything definitely has a concept. 031 is 31 rules under And that was agreed, an 031 one of the first original by the way of East Coast Bloods. Gang culture definitely became Like &quot;Boyz n the Hood,&quot; right? That was actually gang culture. You know and you pay attention, and you see Ricky getting shot, and you see the homies in the red car, and that was gang culture. Snoop promoted the heck He was at the Super Bowl Crip-walking. He's accepted, right? Gang culture. I give it to Jim Jones of notoriety on the music level Nobody did it like him and Dipset. Everybody knew Dipset was Blood, and Dipset was one of the major Pushed great music that And it's stuff like that that made a lot of people When you understand and everything else that's happening, you understand the music, you you understand drill music. That's one of the main catalysts in New York City right now. The music is something that to talk about opposition, because now people want and everything else. So the violence definitely on the last few years of to our community. And when we were coming we weren't talking about we weren't talking about on the internet. We were always low-key If you are somebody who's and protect yourself, you're not out there &quot;Hey, I'm a gangster, I'll We didn't come from that. We've always had a fear of dealing with the FBI. But as you look at the if you look at the and the notoriety from views, You feel like you can get on by talking about your And now they have no because you done told them, Your man got shot. I'm telling you in this So now your opposition and that's what I see My younger brother was killed because of music and internet stuff. It was all over the news. It's a rapper by the name of Troy Ave, got into a beef with a podcaster And Taxstone brung a gun And my brother was the friend Four people was shot. M brother died. That really challenged me. So I always mention my younger brother who's no longer with us. Gang violence in the recent increased in New York. Gang wars are different Our wars started inside of jail. When you look at the California New York didn't have So we didn't just come about a group just coming It started in jail, and it So now what trickled in the streets came because you had Crips and then there was a misunderstanding of what Bloods were representing New York when the Crips came to New York. And that started Blood and Crip wars, but it wasn't something that just territorial wars and stuff like that. I wasn't somebody who automatically or shooting up blocks or another gang. You might have heard of Woos and Choos. And rest in peace to Pop Smoke. He's one of the most famous Woos, right? The Woos and Choos operate of East Flatbush, Brooklyn, in general. Different cliques or crews or gangs that were either Bloods and Based on whoever had a that sat down and said, &quot;Yo, we got beef with We might as well strengthen get money together, and deal that comes our way,&quot; right. So these are homegrown, these were not prison-grown affiliations. These are street-created You see, as far as weapons, we've never been a switch type of, assault rifle type of community. You got 9 mm, .40s, .357s. Dudes are putting work It's accessibility. You had to be that person to have one, to have connections to it. It's always predominantly You run around in a car OK, you might shoot up a neighborhood, but that's not something that's happening on a regular basis in New York. My first legit gun was a MAC-10. And I don't know how it got there, but I know that it was nothing for me to be able to have There's always been a the United Blood Nation, and even the sets that have branched off to create their own banners, that always has structure, and following rules, You got soldiers, you got generals, you got a one-, two-, three-, Your low original gangster, you got your godfathers of the sets. I never was the leader of So my rank was a OG, high OG, double-OG. I was at that level of position inside, and I had to put the necessary work in and leadership in to hold that. From my personal experience, NYPD is very biased about I don't believe that they of the gangs. I believe that they think that it's just about murder and killing. From my perspective, they how they could just run and make gang arrests as their way of dealing with the violence. It's all about arrest and conviction. It's not about change and changing the narrative And half the time, they're not reporting all unless they find a weapon. That's how they play with the numbers. So in New York, they got a gang database. And we're fighting right now to shut down that New York gang database. They can put a 9-year-old, in the NYPD gang database a certain color in a certain neighborhood. It affects those Just because they're affiliated, and somebody in a set does a crime, and you sweep the whole set, there's guys who don't even What happens to that neighborhood? First of all, you took Family leaders that might to survive to take care of grandmothers. You done took whatever resource The next players want to step up. So when the next players step up, now we going to beef and shoot at each other, kill to take a stronghold of this neighborhood. So gang sweeps lead to more violence. I don't think it works. I ran for borough president in I actually ran as an I'll definitely be able to make because I'm somebody who understands the full context of the gang The first time walking to Rikers Island, I remember I was very, very young. Of course, 16. And I got beat up by the my first time in Rikers. And they beat me right on up I had a black eye and everything. And I remember going to the housing area, and the guys saw me with a black eye, and they came up to me and they was like, &quot;Yo, let me get your sneakers. Let me get them Timbs, You not getting none of this. So they like, &quot;All right, Everybody telling them, I fell victim to This is jail. The mindset is And I'm going to give y'all, that you have for me, I'm going to give it to y'all So that was my mindset. Then it was just back and forth with that every time I automatically started to gain control. Somebody has to run the And it just became who I was. Every time I went to jail, I'm taking over the phone, right? I'm running the situation. And that's what it was. How you make money in prison is getting drugs inside the jail. You might have people in state but Rikers is definitely known for weed. You had COs that would bring weed. Back then you would get a visit, and you have girls bringing you weed. You don't have cash on Rikers. Long as you have commissary food items, that's money in there. So you take some weed, you and they'll give you $25 in commissary or send that money out to the streets. I reflected my prison time I've come to the terms of understanding that no life is the same. We are all going to go through something that's going to help define who we are. And it didn't rehabilitate me. The adolescent mind is different, so as that prefrontal cortex shifted and I started understanding I changed my mindset. So I reflect on it based on that it was for me to experience that so that I could be who I am to be able to help make change, right? Experience is the best teacher. Produce: When did you decide that you wanted to leave the gang? Upon my last incarceration, 2005, 2008, I ended up doing my last I was convicted of attempt And that changed my way of thinking, and my lifestyle shift And I thought about my past of recidivism, in and out, in and out. And so I came home from my I was actually doing a security job, and I got fired because he was working with the that I was working for. And they found out that to do security, and they And every time I went in and came out, I went back to the same neighborhood, to the same lack of opportunities. The opportunities that was open to me was criminal activities. I decided that I had to I had to stop that cycle March 20, 2012, I founded Gangsters Making Astronomical And our goal was to focus interrupting the transmission of violence, getting in the middle of conflicts, using street smarts to be the liaison between those who are at GMACC was credited for a in the neighborhood in that we were providing these services to. We had to find the violence to be able to deescalate that violence. And once we picked that catchment area, it took about two years or so, and we were able to My book is &quot;Two Way Mirror: Trife Gangsta I put that book together in the difference between Trife and Shanduke. Trife is who consistently kept Shanduke is who I really that transitions my life into a positive to help other people's life. Hi, I'm a producer on &quot;How Crime Works.&quot; If you enjoyed this video, and comment below with you'd like us to cover in this series.