This is Jake Hi. I'm Jake. In February 2020 he posted his first video Alright, mom, what are you doing today? I'm going to make a beat! I had my mom make a beat that I had already And I recorded, I'm like, okay, press these And we'll make it look like you just made I need a producer tag Okay, what do you want it to be? Ayo mama on the beat. Within hours the video was racking up millions So, Jake made a few more videos featuring but with one small tweak. My brother had the idea, he was like, yo, what if we like put a TikTok like in front Hey mom. Have you ever heard this song before? The format was simple but clever: Jake would mashup songs on TikTok that were [overlapping] Hey mom. Have you ever heard this song before? It worked. With each post, he was racking up millions But he didn't stop there. And we were like, we need to put my vocals And if the song goes viral, then like we can Hood baby part 2, featuring yours truly. Up down right down... We're just going to name myself, JVKE Ayo mommas gonna make this a bop. "Up down right down looking for your love It just so happens that the first one that went absolutely bananas viral. Jake's 15 second snippet of a song was taking Once it was at 1 million videos, That means that this is about to be insane. Like it's not ending at a million. It's starting at a million. At the time, Jake didn't even have a manager. But he knew he needed one fast. We have these fifteen seconds, What do we do? That was actually when I got on the phone and he was like "Call me, right now!" He was like, &quot;Hey, can you finish this song Clearing the "Hoody Baby" sample ended By the time we got it out, it was at 5 million It ended up going to 15 million. If you compound all the views it's like over 9 Billion views. This is just the beginning of Jake's story. But what makes it so interesting isn't how but how often stories just like his occurred Over the last few months I've been working to put experiences like Jake's into perspective. We dug into the data and stories behind dozens To figure out what internet fame actually It turns out, this is way more than a story It's a story about the longstanding artists, platforms, and music industry giants. You might be surprised who's winning. If I were to review this project, I'd probably That is Matt Daniels, a journalist where he digs into culture stories In the Fall of 2021, we started a project that One of the hardest data projects I've ever It seemed simple on paper: create a data set of Indie and DIY artist and determine if that virality was enough Because it really was their first to a huge fan base on the internet. But, there were a few big problems The biggest was there wasn't of the most popular songs on TikTok from 2020. We banged our head against the wall trying to figure out "how do we reconstruct It turns out, there's a lot of playlists And there's also this tool called Chartmetric. Which among other things captures historical and tracks what songs have been added and So, we got to work. And pulled all of the songs from as many playlists that were added between January Then we ranked the songs by their popularity filtering out any that got fewer than Which brought us down to about 1500 songs The biggest challenge I would say is once wrapped around these 1500 songs making the decision of, is this an established that had a TikTok hit or is this the artist's big break? And a big break is a very subjective decision. A lot of the artists in this list were obviously Cardi B going viral on TikTok is not particularly versus somebody who has never released a song So we went back to Chartmetric to dig into behind these songs and the artists that made Including their Spotify monthly listeners, the number of tracks they've released. Which made it a lot easier to decide: did this Eventually, after filtering out all of the we narrowed our list to a sample of 125 artists They all went viral on TikTok in 2020 and as far as we can determine, Can I also say something really quickly... Yeah yeah. It doesn't actually matter how many artists There's probably thousands of new artists So what we wanted to do was just wrap our this phenomenon and, and then say what, what What happened to these artists' after they And nearly everyone of those stories starts The speed and the intensity with which TikTok It's crazy. That's Elias Leight: he's a music journalist and his reporting on TikTok and the music The virality itself is not necessarily new but TikTok is basically just like shooting out viral songs like even more than daily, honestly. The two big differences are how many viral and then how directly that virality correlates which is why the labels are so You can see how that played out in real time which captures the explosive virality of JVKE's But what it doesn't show is that while Jake's people were flocking to Spotify This is the TikTok-to-Spotify pipeline. I remember when we first released the song it was just like a bottle rocket, I was like, what is happening? I didn't even know really what that meant What is meant is that the track was going In fact within a month of "Upside Down's" it was on 98 editorial playlists: including which has almost 4 million followers. It landed on the &quot;Global Viral 50&quot; Spotify And as a result, JVKE went from zero monthly to 3.4 million by October. As I'm editing this piece, he has This pipeline from TikTok to Spotify wasn't It happened to nearly every one of the 125 So, I feel like TikTok is one of the main where people actually leave the app to go That's L.Dre - who's song Steven Universe in more than 10 million video posts. Whenever one of my videos went viral most of the comments were people begging me That's kind of the culture on TikTok. When they hear something, they really wanna I pretty much went from having just like a to just a rapid incline for like a year or where it was just steady going up. And what was more exciting to see was that almost all of the artists, including had some of their other tracks get editorially That's really important because it means that once you're on a playlist that Spotify curates, it's getting a huge audience it's a huge signal that the music you're releasing To get a better sense of how the TikTok-to-Spotify Matt and I analyzed another chart: It's a global chart that shows the top 200 These songs are stream kings. So, in a new spreadsheet, we pulled all the the U.S. Spotify 200 after January 2020 and filtered out all of the artists who had or had already charted before then. This left us with a new data set to analyze. These 332 emerging artists who landed on the Out of this group, a quarter of them This is incredibly eye-opening in terms of In terms of what is getting listened to in But let's backtrack a second. Because it's not just about racking up millions It's about how fast And it's not just about how virality influences It's about how it influences music business. Spotify basically pays out labels according their share of the total streams in a given If you get a really big hit that, you know, does a billion streams over six months or that can add a few points to your market share which then increases your payout of the Spotify It's really like a ruthless competition for that no listener cares about at all but the record labels watch obsessively. Despite this obsession, look what's happened Major labels have slowly conceded their total to independent and self-released artists. To get back a bigger piece of the pie, labels Monitor TikTok like a hawk and aggressively that are rising to the top. In a way, TikTok is great for the labels. They basically sit on top of it, watch everything and if they get it at the right time they can probably make their money back on The intensity of these bidding wars It's pretty wild. It's just like a flat-out sprint to grab the Here's a headline I've seen everywhere. And for legal reasons, I made "Artist with viral TikTok song inks million Let's break it down. So you're an artist, you have a song and it's and all these record labels They're like, I want to sign you. How can we be a part of this conversation? So then they will entice you with money, which So this million dollars, right here? That's the advance. The more virality you have the more zeros This is Mary Rahmani. She's a former TikTok music exec who now runs her own label called Moon Projects. When I worked at major labels, but under an I would go in between like 50 to a hundred And yeah, the major labels are a double triple The label signs you, they give you a fat advance like that, in exchange for full ownership all of your recorded music. So, for that million dollars the label now owns the rights to your They would keep around 85% of the royalties You only got your 15% if you recouped the By the way, that's Ari Herstand. I'm the author of &quot;How To Make it in the New So right after you ink your million dollar because your song is still riding $42,500 of that check would go to the label, but it wouldn't stay with you for long because back your million dollar advance. In essence, an advance is a loan. And if you're only making 15% of the revenue it might take a very long time to pay it back. So you just have to hope you're very smart or you're extremely successful and your album And then you start earning royalties on the The whole approach is basically like initially 1.5 million in the hole, and you just have This is what a standard major label record But recently, this part of the headline has If you have a viral hit, and have proven you Congratulations, you have leverage. I mean, if you have a viral hit, probably because labels scrutinize TikTok so closely and they want to be part of these viral things so badly Because of that... There's been a bigger shift in the last couple 50 years in the types of deals that labels are starting to offer Where the label comes to the artist and says, we're not going to do that for you because And you've obviously proven that you can create So, how about 50/50 we're partners now? And you know, we're not going to own your We're just going to do a licensing deal. Meaning give us the rights to your record You can still do whatever you want with it, to make more money on this. And we'll split it 50/50. That has never really happened before with So, how many record deals are actually happening? Matt and I decided to tackle this question First by compiling a list of who landed their first major label And then from there, we went row by row, artist did this person have a viral moment on TikTok? And if so, was that cited as one of the reasons It turns out, roughly a third of these deals on TikTok. And when Matt and I went back and looked at we figured out that 46% of them went from unsigned to landing a major record label deal. Because when these artists do have leverage, For one, they have direct relationships with which helps them get more placements on editorial playlists. They are also massive international conglomerates, in Sweden and France and Germany and Japan At the end of the day, the biggest difference and they can write huge checks. But TikTok, has increased the chances for the next morning with a million streams on to record an album, and needing a global team This is honestly the subject of a lot of debate If you're able to build a lot of leverage a big label offer you and what should When I looked at the data, I wasn't that signing deals with major labels. What I found more compelling was the group and decided to continue on their own, It's like, I can promote my music. I don't have to rely on you to The leverage is kind of slowly being and it's a beautiful thing to see. When I was browsing our list of one name happened to grab my attention: Edith Whiskers. It turns out that name is a pseudonym for I write fairly boring singer songwriting music Tom's first viral song was his cover of by Edward Sharp and the Magnetic Zeroes. It's been used in 1.6 million TikTok videos. So after the initial TikTok waves hit me, okay, I'm going to release it, but then it if I released it via my own name, I thought this cover will be on the top I couldn't bear the idea of writing all just sitting there at the top. So he did the only sensible thing. I came up with four names, put all those names did a Twitter poll and Edith Whiskers was So he released the track on Spotify under And it shot straight up to Basically, If you can name a record label The thing is, Tom is staunchly independent. And has some pretty strong feelings about I'm their worst nightmare, really, because When record labels said to me "Oh, come can drop off and we help it grow and flourish Well, I go, "Hang on, I've literally got showing that it basically does roughly the I just basically said, this is around the kind because I know this is the money that I will That knowledge is really important, especially In 2021, just a few months after going viral, I thought, let's try it. Let's try and create a fair system. Let's actually have a completely how I approach it compared to The first thing he nixed was the long tradition Obviously not go crazy and invest lots of or 2000 pounds or dollars in someone and say, but I'm not looking for that money back. So that's the key difference, I think, is rather than it being this odd loan system. I want every artist of mine, on my record And the only way they do that is by seeing and understanding how that works. It has never been a better time to be a DIY I'm at the whims of these almighty algorithms Like they pretty much decide, you know, whether A few years ago I started following L.Dre way before TikTok was even on my radar and it seemed like he always had content at I just need to make that I'm posting stuff, The fact of the matter is, if you wanna make hire people, or you just need to also become Also become a graphic designer. You definitely have to wear a lot of hats Pretty much everyone I talked to said, if and not only that, you have post post post. We recommended posting three to five times and now it's three to five times a day, Because theres people out there who are willing and you're competing with them now. Even if you're an influencer full time, But it's just because there's so much content If you're looking to break as a new artist, The more you post, the more you'll get discovered. Out of all of the big existential questions the one that I can't stop thinking about Is music just content now? Are musicians just content creators? I don't know what the actual meaning but like the video killed the radio star thing. There's more to the equation than just your And I think that's kind of what you're getting your ability to create content. On one hand, if you're signed to a label, But on the other hand, you're signed to a Matt and I spent months poking at prodding Examining whether or not they would be deemed and Instagram followers increased, or whether they gained youtube subscribers, But one metric that's just as valuable is People love you on TikTok. That's great. Will they pay for a show? You know, can you start selling merch? Like, is there a deeper attachment here? First we looked at, of these artists, how Unsurprisingly, some of them were. Among the artists who had never toured before about a third of them have had and about 15% of them are actually playing festivals now. A decent chunk of these artists have been performing live music, which is often the You want people to come to your shows and t-shirts and be invested in what you're doing And actually a viral song is obviously great, but it's about doing something so much stronger than that. In November 2021, a little over a year after played his very first live show. &quot;When you perform for the very first time That first moment when I was walking onto I was walking kind of slow just to like take As I sang the first lyrics to the song and Like I almost was like speechless. That target, we were trying to hit of like let's convert this virality into like we hit that target spot on.