Agile project management tools start out pretty projects, and they get more and more rigid as your life gets more difficult because you no longer and over time, you just hate the tool because you work. But then monday dev came along. monday dev the ground up to give each team the autonomy to scrum, another doing Kanban, another doing scrum roadmap. And management can still see the big with monday.com to get you an extended head to the following website, you can click on the link in the description below. From the says get started. Type in your email address and bunch of questions. When you're done, come back on the core project management side of monday.com. the product switcher in the top right and then you may have this icon in the top left instead. monday dev, then try for free. This will take a Welcome to your first monday dev experience. Now, I better tell you how to invite your team. You can the top right toolbar. You can invite people with as members or viewers. You want to give member and you can give viewer permissions to just about viewer licenses, which is a key differentiator help spread awareness of what the dev team is up the boards. By the way, here's a little monday.com Boards track multiple items. And in this case, many groups, which you can expand or collapse. you can customize. You can use the sidebar here to set of boards is called a workspace. Let's now go for each sprint. First of all, if you're turned stories, fear not, you can customize the name of menu in the top right, going to settings and then you can select custom and type in stories. For tasks by clicking on their name and typing. You the open task button. This is a great place to the task so everyone's on the same page. Changes also change these fields at any time. For example, you can click the add button at the end of this for a new type of field called link, then click on the name to rename it to design spec. You can three dots and then clicking delete. And let's say you don't like this list of statuses, you can wish. For example, if I wanted to say awaiting QA, that and click apply. Finally, you can always typing your task name and then pressing enter. of the monday.com platform. And monday dev adds to a minute to clean up these tasks, so we're ready and they've been estimated. Now click the start monday understand that this is the current sprint, this board is filtered to sprint one. This also you're on track to finish your task by the end the daily standup, and monday dev provides a built Here you can move cards around depending on their card to document updates. Let's get out of this to in progress. Let's go back to the active sprint here too. Now that we've changed the status on chart. One thing I really like here is that the to what's happening in the burn down chart. For story points was caused by completing the task in sprint execution to sprint planning. Now, while new tasks to the backlog in preparation for sprint it by clicking on the arrow next to the new task sprint a name. Sprint 2. Highly original. Give weeks from the 28th to the 10th. Click outside click create sprint. And now you see sprint two into sprint two by clicking and dragging them from might want to tackle some bugs here, so let's see the bugs queue board. There are three main parts and of course, fixing the bugs. You can enable to report bugs with the bug reporting form. If you the bug have been turned into questions on this turn on status and priority if we want to. Let's You can also add fields here by clicking on the long text question called reproduction steps. The field, and you can also add a description if you And you can share this link as you see fit, or you give the bug a title and the repros steps and by exiting the form edit view and clicking on been filed. You can also triage bugs on this ready for dev moves that bug from incoming bugs bug into your backlog by changing the status development work and then also add a copy of you have a different process for managing bugs, change any of these processes by clicking on the of the built-in automations that are provided for retrospectives are a key part of this. So, let's done a retro before, there's no doubt you spent 20 go deep on. This board gives you and your team you can vote on the topics most important to you. exactly what you need to discuss. Now everything way of working. But what if you're a Kanban team? next to the search box on the left sidebar team. This is going to create a new set of boards, instead of a scrum way. I'll come back in just a and I've gone ahead and created a few tasks. and just like before, you can move tasks from the table format if you want. Back on the Kanban is setting a work in progress limit. You can do on the column header, and then clicking set column if you need to. So, for example, if we put one is you'll see now we have a warning on this column backlog management in Kanban is a bit different. can manage all the tasks that don't yet show up on here by default, you can always add a new one by by clicking on the three dots next to any group, you can customize the fields here, just like a task to the Kanban board, you can click on the you've seen most of the built in dev templates. dev really shines -- it's integration with GitHub. software engineers in their environment and not and more productive they're going to be. Here's board on the scrum team, then click on integrate in GitHub, you'll see monday's app, which you can you get access to all of the templates here, and engineers in the tools that they know and love, into monday dev. For example, let's say your then you can use this template to sync the status monday dev. Now before you do this, you should main repo. You'll need an admin to do this. Let's simple. If an issue status changes to closed, then deploy, then select your repository by selecting you care about, then click Create Automation. got an issue in my GitHub repo, which references a unique ID generated by monday dev. And if we is at the end of the issue. I'll scroll down and And if we scroll back left again, you can see more cool thing about this integration I don't up and then click on the Git UI view and the top or an issue mentions that item ID, it will show up not all. While we were filming this video, monday called the engineering performance dashboard, notice I've added a few more tasks to the sprint which correspond to these tasks. Now when you open and you see stats on your dev process, including that, you can break down the cycle time into where the bottleneck is in your process. You can look at this time to code review phase. Here you and if you click on the item's history header, this phase. Here's a quick overview of the phases. task in progress in monday to when a pull request when the pull request is opened to the first code code review event to when the last approval from the last approval to actually merging the engineers in the audience, so let's turn our planning on the Epic's board. Epics are a common and monday dev allows you to do just that. You connect boards, which allows you to associate for example, on the donut checkout experience, we then select other tasks that are part of this Pay and Google Pay and allowing gift delivery. And point count goes up. These epics also have another column. This is critical to put all of this data can see everything by clicking on the auto fit some customization. Now you'll notice the default can choose to group by other columns like phase epics differently depending on how far they've dev supports other project management features project dependencies. And if you're looking for a chart, add a new view by clicking the plus icon roadmap tracker. This way you can create a focused months that might appeal more to management. And how you can see the big picture across multiple by creating a dashboard that rolls up information click on the plus button and then instead of initiatives and leave the privacy as main so it's create dashboard. Just like it says, we're here to step is to choose the boards to connect to. We'll use the actual Kanban board from the Kanban team. we'll choose a battery to see status at a glance. to match your design goal. Now we see that this it by clicking on the three dots in the top right need to choose a status column, but they're named one by one to select the columns individually. from the Kanban team, it's called status. Let's the next widget, let's add a Gantt chart. So, every item across our two connected boards with a this to see everything and you have a number can group them by priority instead of by board. really good at surface level data, but not so easy you can click on the arrow next to the name and all the details right there. With as much as we've of monday dev. Now you've seen it in action, what and let me know. Remember, you can get started the link here or in the description below. This