(eerie music) - Hi boys, it's me again, Look I may be a biological female, but I do hope that just for this video, we're able to converse as men. I want you to think back to 2016 which I know in internet years is like halfway between now Do you like history, boys? How did Rome fall again? Was it the gays? Tell me all about it. Back in 2016 the big internet culture war was between feminists on one side and men's rights activists on the other. What ever happened to that? These days it's as dead a I did want to do the fedora though. Every YouTuber who's ever covered the men's rights movement and I wanted to put my My wardrobe notes for this and &quot;fedora but make it fashion.&quot; School shooter realness. I feel like I'm also serving a little red-pilled Carmen Sandiego? In this video I wanna what are we going to do about men? Because, no offense, but, as a group, you guys kind of seem like Could a group of people who are purchasing uncucked alpha yogurt in a state of psychological balance? Fellas, are regular bowel movements gay? I guess yeah, kind of. You don't see a whole lot of psyllium husk in heterosexual medicine cabinets. I'm losing my target audience here. Listen my dudes, let's just say I'm kinda worried about you guys. And I'm not saying I'm any better. To be clear, I'm not okay either. There's like 15 jars of urine Yeah, that's right. Women pee too, okay? Get over it. I'm so sorry if this of feminine delicacy, but I by your patriarchal bullshit. [dramatic music] You boys, you're very (scoffs) I admit that these days rationality, it's something I struggle with, both as a biological female But when I decided I wanted to make a video for men, I started brushing up on I wanna be so f*cking rational for you. So to prepare for this video I read Newton's &quot;Principia Mathematica&quot;, Wittgenstein's &quot;Tractatus and of course the philosophical classic, &quot;The Rational Male&quot; by Rollo Caliente. So my mind is for what I have no doubt will be a penetrating intellectual interchange. Look, I wanna play by your rules, okay? So there will be no I will present my arguments relying only on facts, reason, evidence, and deductive proof. (Grindr notification) (typing) (Grindr notification) (Grindr notification) (typing) (Grindr notification) Actually, you know what? F*ck that. Let's listen to house (upbeat music) I'm pandering to the male gaze! Oh, and the male straights. God I love attention! Hey gorg. Hey gorg. Hey gooooorg. Okay, I'm ready. Let's crack open a cold one boys. My hands are too pretty to open the can. I need a man to do it for me. Help. Fuck it. (cork pops) Okay, that's super great. Hey gorg. Hey gorg. If there are any women I'm really sorry about all this. Unless you're into that sort of thing, in which case how very dare. I'm a good Presbyterian. And by Presbyterian I do mean pansexual heyhowareyou. Look the video's about men so I'm trying to be attractive to men. Am I doing this right? Is this what men like? Trap straps! It is a risky look for a girl like me. When you do a lingerie look you know you're gonna wind up somewhere on the Frank-N-Furter/Violet oh but you don't know where exactly. And that is a dangerous game ladies. I have to say though I actually am feeling pretty f*cking empowered right, but um that could be because of the drugs. Look, gentlemen, let's be rational. No more fooling around, okay? Part one, oh wait. Rational. Axiom one, America's Next Top Victim I think there is some truth to the idea that we live in a victimhood culture. And I'm not just talking about campus SJWs with their microaggressions. No bitch, this goes We have white people whining We have the literal 1% complaining about &quot;anti-rich prejudice&quot; That must be super f*cking hard for you. We have the heterosexual agenda organizing straight pride parades. You know, flaunting their sexuality in the faces of children who and protesting in the street And so of course because there has to be men's rights too. I've been hearing about men's rights for my whole adult life, and I've always been very skeptical. Because in my experience, online men's rights activism in practice always looks like this. Women try to do a good thing and then a man shows up to &quot;Men also get harassed. &quot;Why aren't you talking about men?&quot; And is this man actually to stop harassment against men? Of course he's fucking not. He doesn't give a shit. He's a troll. His contribution to the with, &quot;What about men?&quot; What about them, honey? For this video I decided to actually do some research for once, and the first thing I did was of the modern men's rights movement, which is &quot;The Myth of Male Actually I listened to the audiobook 'cause let's be honest, reading is hard. But as I was listening, I admit than I was expecting it to. Basically, Farrell says rightly fought against the that confined women to domestic servitude. But, he argues that the feminist idea that men have all the power in society is actually an illusion, because the traditional is just as oppressive. He introduces the idea basically the idea that more than male lives, which in the service of protecting and providing for women and children. And he points to statistics showing that men make up the majority workplace fatalities, murder So we're supposed to conclude that even though at have more power than women, in fact the queens have a in being protected and provided for by the expendable male worker bees. And I guess that kinda makes sense. I feel like I can at least What I'm saying is, I took the red pill. And I rubbed it on my cliiiiiiit. But some initial objections come to mind. Like, haven't men been almost all of the kings, presidents, Didn't men make up all these I don't know, boys. Still seems kinda patriarchal to me. But maybe you'll say that it's that men have more power than women. Maybe the average man is also oppressed by this system that If that's what you're saying I think I basically agree with that. See, what you have to understand about me is I am such a f*cking Libra. Whenever there's a conflict well, maybe everybody's right. And maybe there's good and we should all just and rub each others cliiiiiiits. But no, my Scorpio-rising Oh, there will be a champion, there will be blood. So, judges, how do we decide which gender is America's next top victim? I mean it's not like you and see how the other half lives. Or can you? (dramatic music) Proposition two, Diary of an Ex-Man. - (V.O.) Dear diary, with every that on the inside I'm - Mom! Get out of my room. Ugh, You're ruining my life! Look. I've never, ever talked so this is like a super f*cking but I was born a boy. Well, was I ever really a boy? It's hard to say. - (V.O.) Dear diary, growing up I always knew that I was different from other And it took me so long to there was this moment. I must have been what, And I was playing in my and I saw this pair of my and I don't know what it was. It was like this magnetism and I put my little feet in them and walked in front of the mirror and I didn't really have the words yet to describe how I felt, but basically in that moment I sensed that God had made a mistake and I was destined to be, to be a crossdresser. - That is super f*cking coconuts. Anyway then in my 20s my and I became a woman. Hey, how are you? I became one of... My plastic surgeon is an artist. Look, boys, the point I'm I used to live your lifestyle. I know what people like you get up to and I think it's disgusting. I gotta say though, since I transitioned, my life has been super f*cking great. Like, way better. Now of course a lot of that is not because women but because, hey gorg, I So before I transitioned You know, I was in the wrong body. And now (sighs) it's like I was meant to die inside of! But it's not just that. I do think that, in some ways, since I started presenting as a woman, people actually do treat me better. I mean, they take my but that's probably for the best. Now before using my personal experience as any kind of evidence, I guess I should say a couple caveats. Caveat one is that most are not like other boys and the business-class male You know, it's a lot tormented sissies, poets, you know, that sort of thing. Caveat two is that MY trans experience is not THE trans experience, and I do have a lot of other privileges that made things go super Don't you just love it when in a way that's actually just bragging? You know it's super important for me to acknowledge that and I've come so far in part because I'm white and I'm blonde and I'm rich and I pass and I'm educated and I'm popular and my plastic surgeon is an artist and my boyfriend is really rich and hot and I come from a pure Aryan bloodline. And part of what makes me so enlightened and so compassionate is that I'm able to that I have that just to people who are less fortunate. From the bottom of my motherf*cking and my fatherf*cking heart that must be super f*cking hard for you. I can't even imagine. What I was saying is there are ways that people treat me better now that I'm presenting as a woman. You know, people smile at me more. I feel more taken care of. Men do things for me! Now a lot of women don't like You know, holding doors, because they feel that it's But not me. I love it, both because I love attention and because I am a recumbent queen who's too much of a delicate I do this thing on airplanes to put my carry-on luggage I pretend that my bag is and then some man will usually even though I'm taller than most men. It makes me happy! Another good thing about becoming a woman is I integrated more into and I found that they provide and overt affection that male social groups I find the female social than the male one, which more individualist, where behind this semi-jokey Like think about the way when they're playing video games. A third improvement for men and women are treated When you present female in public you're more likely to be to be commented upon. People, usually men, will just blurt out their opinions about you, sometimes complimentary, sometimes just f*cking weird. Whereas when you present male in public you're more likely to be treated either as invisible or as dangerous. Now feminists have traditionally interpreted these differences as men asserting dominance and they've criticized catcalling as being objectifying, And it certainly can But there's different kinds of catcalling, and I have different feelings about them. If I'm walking with another woman and a man says, &quot;Ladies, I don't know, I like that. I think that's nice. It makes me feel seen. It makes me feel admired. It boosts my confidence. Whereas, if I'm walking alone and a drunk starts following &quot;Have you seen Polythene Pam? &quot;She's so good looking, That I am less enthusiastic about. I mean not that that's ever happened. I'm completely f*cking unclockable heyhowreyou... No one knows what it's like To be a sad tran I definitely get where because street harassment sucks. I'm a lot more afraid than I used to be, and I just won't go by myself. But on the other hand, I do now enjoy being able to without other people acting afraid of me. I think a lot of feminists that being treated as can also kind of suck. In my video on incels I talked about male and how getting no attention at all can actually be emotionally worse than getting a lot of sh*tty attention. And when it comes to being when I was living as a man sometimes if I was walking at night, a woman on the same block as me would change sides of the street. And I totally get why. Men do scary shit sometimes, But it still stung a little bit to be treated as dangerous by default. I think it can actually be harmful, which becomes clearer if we There's ways that white women's fear can actually be dangerous I had an experience with this recently when I was filming my and I'd rented a room in a hotel casino. Around midnight I was up to my room, and I got into the elevator with a group of people A couple floors up, everyone except for me and a single black man. Well, I mean he was alone, but I don't know if he was single. That's not part of the story. And as soon as the door closed he started literally whistling the official melody of And I realized oh sh*t, And I found that just excruciating. I was like oh God. How do other white women Do they like, clutch their purses? (groans) That's so f*cking embarrassing. Nothing like that had ever happened to me when I was living as a man. It's not a thing between It's a thing between And so that dynamic was there not just because I'm white and he's black, but because I'm a woman and he's a man. And I thought of that incident again when I was listening to and Farrell says, &quot;Men's greatest weakness &quot;is their facade of strength, &quot;and women's greatest strength &quot;is their facade of weakness.&quot; I think there is some truth to the idea that women's perceived vulnerability can make them powerful, and men's perceived power Now I hope you're taking all because these are just some based on a handful of anecdotes. And as rational males it's important that we consider the facts, the stats, and the figures. Did you know that 46% of men are at least 2.8 times Look it up. I haven't. I guess my super f*cking Libra opinion is that there's upsides and downsides to male and female experience. I don't actually think there's to the vague and useless question, &quot;Which gender has it worse?&quot; I consider myself a feminist because I support reproductive rights and I oppose workplace misogyny and I generally agree that happens under the But I also think a lot of men are just having a super f*cking and that must be super And I don't think feminists to care about male angst, God, I'm such a cool girl, I think the entire mid-Atlantic region is about to freeze over. No, I'm just a super f*cking and I really try to understand other people's pain because I just find it really, really funny. I'm also really, really sobering up here. The drugs have worn off, and I am suddenly feeling very naked. Like it's just now occurring to me that this is a highly inappropriate outfit for this occasion. So, I'm gonna go put on a robe, and I'll meet you back Postulate three, The Man Question. (upbeat music) Hi boys, et cetera, et cetera. Heyhowareyou? For the last three years on this channel I have been your Virgil, Pick-up artists, gender dysphoria, incels, radical feminists, non-binary genders, men's rights activists. It seems like everybody's So what do we make of that? Well gorg, a very, very named Hegel once said that the unfolding of history is a basically rational process, gorg. That means that at any time in history, society is based on all men are created equal as long as they're super And there's always contradictions which creates tension and like a revolution, where society has to be reorganized according At least, I think he was It's pretty hard to make anything out through the fog of his unreadable, hyper-abstract man-jabbering. God, I can't stand that shit or any of the other music-hating volcels of the male philosophical tradition. My point is I think our where gender as we know it Now no one seems to agree or how to fix it, but we do all agree that it's broken. We have mainstream to continue advancing the rights of women. We have conservatives saying we need restore the We have an increasing number of people not identifying as men or women. We have TERFs who think are the single greatest And we have men's rights a male equivalent to feminism to liberate men from their Now I wanna focus on that last one because in principle I agree. I've spent a lot of the last three years covering the manosphere. I know, such a feminine topic. Love that for me. And from all the time I've tortured myself wading through these pick-up artists, men's intellectual dark web fanboys, and alt-right racists, I've noticed that they all have one thing in common, which is that they all recruit from the same massive We all know the archetype. He has trouble relating to women. He has no strong friendship group. He's not excited about and he fills the void And just to clarify, I'm your video games and porn. I'm not telling what You can rub one out to Just don't pull a Gamergate on me, okay? (sighs) I live in fear. Look, I like to believe that until the red-pillers most of these boys are not bad people. I think this all originates in a genuine crisis of male identity. And I think it's happened in something like the way men's rights The sacrificial role of men as warriors is no longer widely The traditional is being replaced by a more equal and undefined gender dynamic. And college professors and that most of our culture's of manhood are toxic and bad. But without an attractive of aspirational manhood, average young men can only The beta. The cuck. The nu male. And in a post-LeftTube internet, we're so used to laughing and to be fair it is very funny, but we forget, especially us grills, that for a lot of men tap into a deep, existential angst. And a lot of leftists go, &quot;Well how can men be so &quot;They're so privileged.&quot; But existential angst is If you're actually being You have something to fight for, and therefore a purpose. But for a lot men their lack of purpose puts them in search of a struggle. And that, along with the loneliness and the lack of a positive identity is what makes men by the manosphere groups And even worse, it seems for the small but growing who decide to pick up a gun and open fire in a shopping center. There were two mass I was writing this video, Both shooters were young white men, and one of them posted about the shooting on an alt-right image board. Now I don't pretend to fully understand the motives of mass shooters, but I don't think it's a coincidence that basically all of them are men. One possible interpretation is that these killers some horrible parody of and therefore to be seen by unleashing Homeric And of course there's also the racism of the alt-right killers and the wounded sexual But that racism and that and men in the throes are much more receptive to learning it. So you can try to take down their forums and ban their accounts and but as long as this male I don't see any end to these problems. Theorem four, What Do? There's this media narrative that has emerged around me And by the way, the fact that there's any kind media is super f*cking coconuts. Because let's be real gorg, I just wanted to pour milk on my face and talk about the mouthfeel. But there's this media narrative that my role in the discourse is &quot;de-radicalizing &quot;young &quot;alt-right men.&quot; And it's true that if you read the leftist YouTube fan subreddits, I used to be alt-right posts are so common they're considered cliche. And some of them cite me as an influence in changing their politics, which I love for them and I'm but it's also a lot of responsibility. They're (Grindr notification) my boys. And I worry about (Grindr Because in reality it's not like they go from far-right extremists No. Most of them go far left. A lot of times they become So I watch them go from far to my right to significantly to my left. It's not really de-radicalizing And I think it's but I still worry it's I worry about (Grindr Because I don't think a final solution to the man question. Oh no. That was worded poorly. You know, there's kind of two options the left has for disillusioned men. The first is the Marxist We say, &quot;Well, actually &quot;But you're oppressed because &quot;So just join the revolution. &quot;It's gonna be super f*cking crazy. &quot;We're gonna overthrow the bourgeoisie, &quot;meow meow, &quot;smash no voting, and then Now, I think that has One is that I look at the far left and I see a bunch of people who spend all their of abusing moderator privileges And I'm concerned that might not succeed at ending capitalism. Meow meow Like, definitely vote for Bernie Sanders or Elizabeth Warren or whoever, but if you're investing all of your hopes in a capital R Revolution, I worry that can become or waiting for the rapture. So we do need political change, but I feel like I'm failing (Grindr notification) my boys if I'm somehow giving them the idea that revolution is their only hope. Cause here's the other thing. Even if we did succeed there would still be gender, and (Grindr notification) my of what it is to lead Now the other option the left is the feminist tranquilizer. We say, &quot;Look, toxic &quot;you don't have room to &quot;and it's the reason you So, while feminism tells &quot;and you're constantly doubting yourself &quot;because society did this we kinda just tell men, &quot;because you're toxic. &quot;Stop it.&quot; We tell them that they're broken without really telling I think what men need is a which I don't think is something that women cannot create for And honestly the best may actually be some But on the left the whole is basically taboo because is basically just a backlash to feminism, and at worst, it's just And look boys, I understand about manspreading for most of 2015 was super fucking hard for you and you're still mad about it, but posting endless outrage p*rn about false r*pe accusations isn't actually gonna make Because yes, those things are but they're not systemic I think what would actually is a positive ideal of but that's not something I can give to you because in case you hadn't noticed I'm literally a fu*cking woman. I can't mom you through this one boys. You're on your own. You have to help each other. So find each other in Meet up on Reddit. Make friends. Clean your room. Leave the house. F*ck each other. I don't know. It's worth a try. And failing that, you could always throw in Worked for me! (upbeat music) - I'm just trying to - Yeah, it is. It is English. It's very John Maclean. Very Quentin Crisp, very aristocrat. I'm super f*cking naked right now. That's crazy. That's super f*cking crazy. According to traditional gender roles, men are useful for their labor and women are useful for their wombs. Well, I'm a woman without a But I'm beautifully useless. Agh! I'm a work of art! The problem with our society is we've turned men into women. It's disgusting. As an ally to men, it's not my place to speak for them or speak over them, but I just want to use my platform to uplift some male voices who might not have as I'm not hypergamous. I don't need a rich husband. If I may quote Cher, &quot;I don't need a rich man. &quot;I am a rich man.&quot; It's not even much of an insult being called a delusional man. Many great books have been So bad. I'm bad. I'm really bad. Okay.