In today's video we will analyze the immortal this engine should be studied in any engineering We will compare it with its German alloy-based engine and finned cylinders, cooling The compression ratio was interesting. and stroke ratio it could exceed Torque was only 15 lb-ft, but The 1950 Beetle, which it was competing with 1131cm3 and a compression ratio of The ratio of power per cubic centimeter The Beetle uses the classic and simple gear oil The central part of 4 teeth rotates with the 5 teeth of the external rotor, Compared to a gear pump, has fewer vibrations and is more efficient. However, the gear pump is not far behind, Both pumps are very easy to repair as The oil is absorbed by an oil goes up through a conduit to the pump, and then and also through the veins but one version even brought channels on The copper pipes carry oil to the rocker The aluminum oil cooler is located just behind the on the Beetle, which has cylinder number 3 with heat and the possibility of knocking. In addition, the Beetle has a centrifugal fan into the cylinders. This causes the resistance and decreasing efficiency. There is no chain or belt. The The camshaft drives the valves Through this nut the valve clearance is adjusted flow of gases since it does not collide with the chamber improves efficiency. The exhaust valve the air from the fan concentrates all its power on air goes towards the rear, heating the intake and The hot intake ports prevent fuel drops from the cylinder in gaseous form, mixing better In addition, the exhaust pipes also pass Although today intake air is preferred as cold power, at that time, where electronic injection The hemispherical combustion chamber is It has a cut for maximum valve opening compression caused by the well in the center. valves which make it cheaper and easier to The combustion chamber is of the knocking and is cheaper to build than the 2CV. and when they wear out, it was enough to take repaired parts with new pistons, speeding The connecting rods are of a single piece, Well, interesting things is the crankshaft of the 2CV. connecting rods. This makes machining the little bench lathe. It is not necessary to where the complete piece rotates, although crankshaft, its resistance decreases. produced about 9 horsepower and its speed was There is no conventional distributor. The Spark advance on the camshaft at the front. This the coil fires a spark in both cylinders, In other words, the spark plug has twice the wear save cost and not to place the distributor. The generator was 6 volts, and later it The flywheel is large and heavy Being only 2 cylinders, there is only one During the compression and exhaust stroke of each the engine. Only inertia kept it rotating. when one seeks to accelerate quickly. always a combustion stroke driving the engine. change wheels, the engine can be Finally, in the upper part of the engine we which at the same time has a venting filter or pistons come together in the crankcase, its volume somewhere, otherwise, the seals and gaskets of Later, the engine received modifications and to 602cm3 with 28 horses. Enough The 2cv had been designed for driving in rural Its mechanical suspension using You basically couldn't lose hydraulic fluid. The wiper blades are powered by the speedometer Basically an automatic wiper. The bad thing is The headlights are adjustable The Beetle, although it also had intended for the German highways. Citroen had the Mehari version. Of The 2CV van was also very popular for delivery. which had 4 wheel drive thanks to the It had 2 fuel tanks. One under each all the commands were duplicated, and by moving one was actually driving 2 engines. the fan that breathes through the trunk Only in Argentina, in 1967, the 2CV was renamed was done to highlight the evolution of compared to previous years. In the rest of The manufacture of this vehicle It remained for more than 40 years were sold among its variants. Ford T But enough to stay among the Have you ever traveled in a Citroen 2CV? super thank of the value you want or if not, by with these air-cooled engines and don't forget to