It's been a good night. You smoked some than you'd care to count, and at some your cat he looks like Wilford Brimley. for a long night of... nothing? You wake up the Not even a glimpse of Juju the Clown, been gate-crashing your dreams for years. but today? It's like you got turned off and on more importantly, is there any way to Grab your favorite munchies and settle in, telling you exactly why you don't dream on weed. easily get you harassed by the cops, to the come a long way in only a few years! It's many states in the United States essentially look dispensaries on every block, selling the plant and even gummies. All for medicinal use, and more mainstream, some are saying that it's And no, it's not just your Aunt Sally, who also thinks that she heard "Hail Satan" Marijuana's fans point to it having a lot have an easy-to-reach overdose point, like hasn't been conclusively tied to physical or to cancer risk like smoking. long-term studies on its effects to make the most toxic contents of other drugs and But while it doesn't affect the body Marijuana's best use is to get that famous of euphoria and an altered state of mind and release your worries. But it also has some chemistry changes - including a negative effect on moving in a coordinated way. That's why driving prohibited as driving while drunk. And of course, But what happens when it comes time for sleep? While on an active high, especially for there can be some strange negative effects at and hallucinations on a bad first dose, happening. It can also cause some negative and nausea if someone isn't used to it. But is that when the high wears off, the But they may not dream a little dream. There hasn't been too much research on the effects it having a unique effect. In fact, many people dreaming at all or simply don't remember their be making us forget our dreams - it might be And that could have far worse consequences When we're asleep, we go through a sleep but our brain is still hard at work, firing is truly rested and refreshed. One of the most or Rapid Eye Movement Sleep. This is where the and our brain gets most of its dreaming in. Dreams and the brain blocks out outside visual to make sure we can make the most of it So what could be disrupting that? Sleep expert Dr. Rubin Naiman speculates and it almost all comes down to the introductions We're taking more drugs than ever before - not but over-the-counter allergy pills and know exactly how that's impacting our and mainly interact with us when they're sleep in the population and a slight increase But maybe it should be. The REM phase of sleep is extremely important, as emotions. Think of the movie Inside Out, where our workplace full of machines and various rooms REM Sleep is when those little guys go "Okay, place cleared out!". And if they don't have that to struggle with processing bad memories, and REM sleep also means a person is likely to feel through their day's work. Which depending on what But if marijuana is a major culprit, the Dreams are generated primarily from a section of things like memory, emotions, creativity, and dream - but so is the rest of our brain, including might be a safer drug than many, especially effects on the brain - and has been proven to why our memory is impacted when we're high - and But that's just the start of A 2022 study proved that weed can pretty much changes in the structural makeup of brain And when people are actively high, it's shown shortens how long they enter deep sleep phases. this might have a very small effect - but if smoking all day, every day, the effect on REM sleep might be one of the most important lightest. That's why it's so common to be woken that no, you aren't showing up late for school in vivid and bizarre, so they make the most memorable might be impacting these dreams due to its key component of weed, and its effect on the memory However, the science may Some sleep studies with marijuana users or nightmares when they smoke, while supporters of and outdated to provide conclusive information there's a much bigger pool of users to draw pretty good, and many people who might stepping into their local marijuana While for most people, dreams are a dreams aside - that's not the case disorder. It's very common for them with them being woken up again and again their worst moment ad nauseum. Some doctors have help them suppress those memories and dreams just But the good news for everyone is, the brain So what's the easiest way to test out if the one foolproof way is...stop! We permanent - just enough for an experiment. that happens when someone is catching up burning the midnight oil cramming for a test. their brain is working overtime cleaning out the Vivid dreaming is one of the most powerful people to experience some truly surreal moments is the next step over from lucid dreaming - which can manipulate their dreamscape, a rare experience try to induce vivid dreams, they often follow a maybe stepping up their consumption for briefly. Because marijuana is psychologically same way as alcohol, going cold turkey But oh, boy does it work magic on the mind. People who have recently quit marijuana report much more surreal, and much more memorable. Some to terms with past tragedies, or come face to face dreams feeling not just refreshed, but feeling to achieve. So this kind of on-and-off cycle is But is it safe - and is it reliable? If messing with the sleep cycle a whole lot of night shift workers it looks like the effects of cannabis on the can feel dramatic. And the chemical components of as they bind to fat molecules. So a one-time most of the studies on weed and the sleep there are still plenty of unanswered Want to know about a drug that will more permanently? Check out "The One Drug You