Transcriber: Tanya Cushman Thank you so much. When I was first approached I had every intention of sitting down taking a bow and being finished As an instrumental musician, But when I heard which is &quot;Rethinking the Ordinary,&quot; I decided that I wanted to talk to you all which is practice. I did a little bit of estimating, and in my lifetime, I've spent 6,440 hours, approximately, on the bench, practicing. Now, we've all been told &quot;Practice makes perfect.&quot; Well, I'm here tonight That's not true. Practice does not make perfect. Perfect practice makes perfect. And tonight I want to share with you Now, as a quick disclaimer, I know that perfect I like to think of the Russian who, after he withdrew said in an interview, in broken English, &quot;I'm not robot.&quot; I'm not suggesting that we should try just that we should strive for the highest level of excellence That just doesn't roll as &quot;Perfect practice makes perfect.&quot; So, the first step I had a lesson, a piano lesson, It was really discouraging for me; I felt like I was making and I was just not really getting and I sat down with my teacher I feel like I'm doing so badly.&quot; And he said, &quot;You just need I was, like, sitting power? He basically said, &quot;Sitting power you're doing the right things, but you're not doing them enough.&quot; When we develop sitting power, we develop the patience to sit down and work at something. Now, as another aside, I recognize that most of this audience is not going to go home tomorrow I know I'm in the minority. However, this applies to anything that's commonplace or ordinary. And when we rethink like me practicing, our results become extraordinary. So, sitting power. I did a little bit more calculation. In the past year, I've spent 828 hours The bare minimum practice requirement is three hours a day, six days a week. Now, admittedly, I am a millennial, and we like our information We are notorious and our penchant for getting bored easily and not investing in things. However, excellence was never achieved and this is why I think When we are able to do things sit down and put in the work that's when we're able So the next thing is evaluation. Sitting power by itself is not enough. I could sit at the piano and if I was practicing mistakes, it would actually be doing My teacher - I refer to him, At his most picky, I once spent an entire lesson I would play them for you, but I don't want it's a little precarious up here. I will never forget those three chords. It was a hard lesson. But this is where perfection really comes into play in this evaluation step. I could sit down every day, and if I played, inevitably made a few mistakes, then patted myself on the back and then did it over until I met my allotted three hours a day that's required that would never really benefit me at all. Instead, you have to split So there is stuff that I know is good, stuff that I can do, and I put that in the &quot;I don't need Then there's also stuff And in this step of evaluation, The first is, Was that perfect? Now, there's that word again. But, essentially, Did I play what the composer intended? This can apply to any of us. You know, Did I get Did I do this task If the answer is yes, the next question Did I get lucky? Was I white-knuckling it or did I actually do it well and it was natural for me and it was easy? Now, if the answer you can take that thing that you're doing and put it in the &quot;I don't need However, if the answer which it often is - that leads us to the last step which is repetition. Now, when I was young, my teacher would give you She would go to the music, and she would pick that she knew was tricky or challenging, and she would put a little and then send me home to do repetitions. Her required number? My age. So, 5 repetitions was not a problem. 12 repetitions I can handle. 16 repetitions, you know, I've gotten to the point in my life where 21 repetitions and so I developed a system that makes me kind of accountable And this is just a scan and you can see I basically divided into, you know, 50 or 60 skill spots. It's just that I use the whole piece now instead of just a little, like my teacher used to. Then, once I've done this - I know this is a little bit small - but I make a spreadsheet and across the top you have the date and across the bottom is sections, and I go through, and the number of repetitions So, if I was playing something I'd be enforcing a bad habit. However, when I play something 45 or 50 times a day - and I'm playing it right, I'm building, in my personal case, I'm training my muscle memory So when I get in a situation or when I'm playing faster or if I have a memory slip, I can fall back on this tactile and I know how to do something right. Now, let's apply this to an athlete. Someone who skis does not think about every little in order to execute a turn. They just do it because it's natural. So, essentially, whatever it is rethink it. Get in touch with like my teacher. Increase your sitting power. Work a little bit harder. And train your instincts Just remember that practice does not make perfect. Perfect practice makes perfect. Thank you. (Applause)