Transcriber: Curtis Svinth Well, are we there yet? Let's see. So I will be throwing at you some but I wanted to ask you. How many a house that was in generation The house that your great grandfather Is this looking like that or. It's like this shiny and new And if that is the case, let me ask Uh, well, you will be surprised to the biggest promise of tissue engineering. You will ask me, why is it Well, all of you are living And in a sense, it's your own house. And let's see if you one day an organ that somehow got damaged or sick, and you need to replace it and repair it. So what the tissue engineering I do the magic and I will recreate the degree that it's going to be a perfect functional organ that will and you will enjoy a long and Well, that's the promise. Let's see how First, let's talk about it. What is tissue engineering and what is All of you, all of you sitting here out of cells. So if we wanted to recreate We need life cells. The but they all have to be pretty much which means that they should be. They should have a potential to become any Those cells are called pluripotent cells, and the pluripotent cells are It's either embryonic cells, but They're either adult cells and they will in this case will be called Or they're induced cells, though those And these are the cells that have and pluripotential and being capable So we take the adult cells, reminding that they can achieve many things, and then kindly asking them to become All right. so we've got the cells. We know how to grow them. We put them, What do we need next? We need So in the house that we are the scientists called scaffolds. So it's basically a structure that reminds And it is made either artificially or a cadaver or it is bioprinted. So we'll talk about all these Now we've got the cells, we've And as you all know, if a it must be a healthy communications in So for that we need to provide them as growth factors, hormones, enzymes, and all that happy mix. So that's what the tissue engineering Give me these three components and I'll Move on. On to the type of houses that It's a huge field of study right now And basically all scientists are now and ways to build those scaffolds. For cells to have a microscopic they can still function, they can they can make your whole organ work. And they're coming made out of the salt leached and whole repertoire. Then comes the big news in everywhere, including the tissue engineering Well, it was a big, big boom when because everybody decided that, oh, that's We're going to print any organ of any But all is not as easy as we say, because to print a scaffold you cannot use a simple plastic that doesn't transfer the those and bioactive molecules that does not a connections. So if we're talking those bioprinters need bio inks, which new materials that are supporting And that's also is area where you, as an aspiring So but then comes the my This is called decellularization. You're taking something and Basically, you're taking a tissue and washing away all of the biological leaving only biochemical carcasses. So the examples of that you on the heart and in the liver, so If we look at the process, what it is, You take a fully functioning organ and you start washing either through it perfusing or putting the organ into a solution of detergent which is in So if you put your tissue in a soapy a long enough time, all the cells Because the cells are surrounded And as all lipids tend to be washed And so eventually in depending the time you will obtain that image which is a basically a ghost So and then let's say we made it all, we We put it into that and we're So what happens with the transplantation. What happens always with any old age the immune system of the recipient with the T cells, the natural killers and the macrophages starts attacking that And most importantly, and what they are attacking is the cells. So the idea is that if we wash the cell all these cells already will and they will simply disappear. But all of a sudden, we realized the recipients still lingers around. And the dendritic cell is a kind of a cell eats up something, something, something, and introduces that to the immune So basically this is what the And it is more realistic the dendritic cell What that cell has is a special receptors that are capable the cells that we did not have but some remnants of something. It could be nuclear or mitochondrial It could be fragments of the very proteins Or they can be some particular peculiar a tissue not from the, uh, primate origin. So all of that is making these cells and kind of prepare the immune system of a recipient to attack whatever you Now, what are the factors that We need to know the factors So first of all is the methods The physical, chemical and biological their pros and cons, and the combination still have to learn how to do? Then the alterations of those proteins because when we wash and process and and introduce some enzymes we break those molecules creating some pieces that are also very, very upsetting for the immune We also have to take in mind that some others. Let's say when we're talking they tend to be much less immunogenic than the heart valve or the liver. The last, uh, factor that contributes transplant. So if you're putting it in If you're putting it on the skin, So as you can see, there is a whole and address and develop in So the solutions what can we do? In recent years, there is one new approach is instead of taking already dead tissues initiate the programmed cell death, You probably never thought about it, but you all know that the embryos even as a human beings, we have these While we're embryo. And by none of these membranes exist. So those cells are not necrotizing, they're just sent into the and do not induce any inflammation. So that's why the scientists Because in this case, when your cell by organism telling it, you go die, what happens is that remnants of that and not spilling all of its guts to And then it all causes the inflammation so that it also produces much smaller that are easily washed out. And all of this causes less inflammation But it's been done and was shown as good decellularization as That's one and another one. Meanwhile, while we're perfecting design visualization. We're dealing with selective antigens that are specifically the recipient by cross-linking some DNA by solubilizing insoluble proteins that we don't want to be in a scaffold, but by sterilization. So we would avoid and bacteria that can induce an So with all this, I don't want you to get I want you to understand that and you have a lot to do before we'll have and replacing any part of your house that Thank you.