Hi, I'm Daniel. Welcome to Oxford Online English! In this lesson, you can learn about the IELTS You'll see what you need to do during the sure you pass. The IELTS Life Skills exam has two levels: In this lesson, we'll focus on the B1 exam. However, the tasks in the A1 exam are similar, for both levels. The B1 IELTS Life Skills exam lasts around You take the exam with one other candidate. Sometimes, the examiner will ask you questions, and complete tasks together. IELTS Life Skills is a pass/fail exam. You are assessed on four things: Obtaining information Speaking to communicate This means that Life Skills is a test of your Your grammar, vocabulary, writing and so on It doesn't matter if you make grammar mistakes as you can communicate and express your ideas. Let's look at the different parts of the do. At the beginning, the examiner will ask you What's your name? Can you spell it for me? Where do you come from? How long have you lived here? These questions are the same in every exam, Use the introduction to warm up and get as Answer the questions in full sentences, make This will help you to feel confident. Next, the examiner will ask: Could I have your marksheets? Give the examiner your marksheet. Then, the examiner will give you the instructions In this task, the examiner will give you a Your job is to ask your partner questions questions. Here's a sample task: Now you are going to ask each other some questions. I want you to find out from each other about you enjoy it. You have two minutes to talk to each other. Be careful: your job is not to talk about The best way to do this task is to play "question What am I talking about? "Question tennis" means that your partner You answer, then you ask your partner a question Your partner answers, and then asks you a For example: I like reading, going to the gym, and cooking. What about you? I'm a big sports fan. I play football for a local team and I go Do you play any sports? Not really. I like keeping fit, but I'm not into team Do you enjoy playing football more, or watching Simple, right? Answer a question, ask a question, answer That's it. There are two things you need to be careful One: don't talk too long. This task lasts two minutes, which is not Answer each question with one or two sentences, Two: these tasks always have two parts. For example: Find out from each other about something you it (2). Or: Find out from each other about a place there (2). Listen carefully to the examiner and make question. If you're not sure, ask! It doesn't make a difference to your result. Then, cover both parts of the question during Keep asking and answering questions until The examiner will then give you the instructions In this part of the Life Skills test, you You have to talk about your topic for one-and-a-half Then, your partner will ask you three questions Your partner will talk about their topic in You need to listen and ask them three questions Here's a sample task: You're going to tell your partner about why you'd like to learn this. You get one minute to think about what to You can also use this time to ask the examiner As before, these tasks always have two parts Don't talk about several things you'd Choose one thing and talk about it. This is generally true; these tasks always If anything is not clear, ask the examiner. Again, it doesn't matter if you need to However, if you don't understand the task, a problem. You have 90 seconds to speak. You should try to continue speaking until Start your speech with a simple introduction, For example: I'd like to learn to paint. Then, add more details, making sure you cover You can prepare for this part of the test Set the timer on your phone for 90 seconds. Take a topic, like this one, If you're watching this lesson on YouTube, with on our website. There's a link under the video. When your partner is speaking, listen carefully You need to think of three questions. Here are two tips: One: keep your questions simple. Two: make sure you're asking for new information. For example, if your partner says, "I first did you first go to Paris?" Ask for some new information. For example: What did you do in Paris? What did you like best about Paris? Are you planning to go to Paris again? When your partner asks you questions, you Answer with one or two full sentences; don't Next, you'll do the listening section. During the listening part of the IELTS Life The examiner will then ask you a multiple-choice For example, the question might be: In the first recording, where are the people You'll have a choice of three answers. Then, you'll hear the recordings again. The examiner will ask you two questions about That means: if your first question is about you about the second recording. So, the first time you hear the recordings, The second time, focus on the recording which Here's an example of the kind of question In the second recording, how are they planning And what time are they going to meet? Answer the questions with full sentences. If you don't know, take a guess. The recordings and questions are relatively Even if you guess, you have a chance to get Next, the examiner will introduce the next The planning section is not difficult, but have the most problems with, so it needs your Let's look at a sample question. The examiner will say, "Now, you're going I'd like you to imagine that you're organising First, talk together about where you should would be best." You'll see something like this: - at someone's home Next, the examiner will continue, "Then, The examiner will show you something like : - how many people to invite Then, the examiner says, "You have two minutes interrupt you." Here's the first thing you need to do: when start immediately. Your time for this activity is very limited. Don't repeat parts of the task. Don't say something like: So, we're going to organize a party. I think it'll be fun! This just wastes your time. Start answering the first question. Make a suggestion; for example: I think we should have the party in a bar, What do you think? If you can't think of anything to say, just So, where should we have the party? The planning activity has two parts: the first which has three points to discuss. You want to answer the first question quickly, This will give you enough time for the plan If your partner makes a suggestion for the It doesn't matter if you actually agree Say something like: Yes, that's a good idea. You're right; we should do that. It doesn't matter if you don't finish much as you can. Because your time is so limited, it's important Don't get stuck on one point. If you've been on one point for too long, Let's think about what food and drink to Anyway, how many people do you think we should There's one more thing to talk about: what This brings us to another important point: together. That means you can't decide to do something You're planning one party in this question, You can't make two separate plans. This is easy: whatever you're planning, If your partner suggests something, you can It doesn't matter if you really agree or Try to balance making your own suggestions, For example: I think we should invite around 20 people. That's enough to have fun, but not too big. What do you think? Let's review the most important points here: One: start answering the first question immediately. Aim to agree an answer as fast as you can. Two: move the conversation forward, and don't Three: make sure you plan together and reach The examiner will probably stop you before Now, you have one more activity to do. In the last part of the IELTS Life Skills You and your partner need to discuss the topic Let's look at a sample question: Now, we're going to talk together about Find out from each other what kind of food Do you notice anything in the task? Like the first speaking task, the question This is true of all questions in this section; Make sure you understand both parts. If you don't, ask! So, what should you do here? The best way is to play "question tennis" However, in this activity, you have a bit That means you can make your answers a little For example: I really like all kinds of Asian food: Indian, I particularly like Thai food. As you might have guessed, I'm a big fan What about you? My mother's Italian, so I would say Italian I spent a lot of time in Italy when I was just make me feel happy. It's not just about the flavour; they bring Do you like Italian food, or is it not spicy I do like Italian food, although it needs I like most cuisines, to be honest. Plus, I enjoy trying new kinds of food. What about cooking: do you enjoy cooking? You can see that it's quite similar to the question, then ask a question back. Try to give a little more detail in your answers Even here, you don't have so much time, Make sure you ask questions to cover both Just keep asking and answering questions until And, that's it! You've finished your IELTS Life Skills exam. Are you planning to take the IELTS Life Skills Have you taken it recently? We'd love to know your results! Please let us know how you did in the comments, share. Check out Oxford Online English.com for That's it from me. See you next time!