What's up guys, my name is Ryan and the incredible world, and I want to share with you It's easy to forget how incredible our planet is. history of Europe, there's something worth video is a long one, so I've made timestamps so you Let's start this video off in Cape Town, South Africa. you're in luck because Cape Town has both. One of this wizard hat shaped peak that you can hike to can take a cable car to the top and it offers from up there. One of the best beaches in Cape offers some spectacular scenery all around. While Drakensberg. It's a set of mountains on the South the most incredible scenery. One of the craziest 1000 meters, it's the second tallest waterfall Amphitheater. It is just this bowl of massive cliffs gonna venture to Botswana to experience the part of the country, the Okavango Delta is this The area gets flooded and it reaches its peak to the influx of water, animals come from all over concentrations. From elephants wandering through through the swamps, it's just incredible how much best ways to experience it is by taking a boat and marveling at all the wildlife. Afterwards we're the border between Zambia and Zimbabwe, Victoria with a length of 1708 meters. The Zambezi River I think that's unique about it is how it plunges never seen in any other waterfalls. There's this you can sit in the water right in the edge of in but thankfully the current isn't that strong. Located on the Atlantic coast above South Namib Desert probably comes to mind. It's full of One of my favorite places in the Namib desert dunes and what makes it so unique is that there's stopped coming into the area and they are frozen think Tanzania is one of the most incredible Kilimanjaro, there's just so much to see. If you this island archipelago located just off the coast phenomenal coastline. Another one of my favorite to the African safari, the Serengeti is one of It's home to The Great Migration which is when Serengeti into Kenya's Maasai Mara every year. The Mount Kilimanjaro. It's the tallest place in Africa world with an elevation of 5895 meters. What's summited without climbing gear. The journey takes love to do it someday. One of the best places Amboseli National Park. It's located right across the border in the world. Not only because it has a great view as elephants roaming free throughout the park. I Afterwards we're going to venture to Ethiopia to highest point in Ethiopia. One of my favorite They are home to the Gelada baboons, also known found in the Ethiopia Highlands. I mean it's Afterwards we're going to visit the islands of off the coast of East Africa, the Seychelles are an some of the world's most famous beaches. When the island of Mahe. It's the biggest island in the the Island's capital. There's a lot to do and off to the other Islands. One of the most famous Anse Source d'Argent. it's located on the Island from the neighboring islands. It's often rated as totally understand why. It has these massive landscape. Afterwards we're gonna visit Madagascar. After in the world. One thing unique about Madagascar, species are found nowhere else in the world. One Baobab Avenue. It's this dirt street lined with meters tall and almost 3000 years old. Another of Reunion. Located in the Indian Ocean, Reunion is a terrain. It is a volcanic island and totally reminds me island is the volcano called Piton de la Fournaise. in the world with its most recent eruption in scenery. After we're gonna visit the nearby island country. It's an incredibly beautiful island with the most well-known feature of Mauritius, is its waterfall, it creates an illusion of one and can head up to Egypt to visit the Pyramids of Giza. As the Pyramids of Giza are someone most baffling thousands of years ago, millions of massive stone structures on Earth, it's just hard to comprehend. The pyramids are full of mystery. Like how in the world were they built? what was their purpose? believe that the pyramids served as a tomb for the Another interesting fact about the pyramids is the speed of light. I mean whether that means something or it's just a crazy coincidence, it's definitely something to think about. Afterwards we're Famous for being one of the wonders of the world, I first It's believed that the area was settled by the made Petra as the capital city of their Kingdom. Treasury. It's his temple that was carved straight served as a mausoleum for the Nabatean kingdom. Bedouins believed treasure was hidden inside. While Wadi Rum Desert. Located near the border of Saudi with unique Rock features it's been the filming It really feels like you're on another planet here this beautiful desert. Afterwards we're going East, Saudi Arabia was a rather mysterious country largest and capital city of Saudi Arabia is Riyadh. skyscrapers. One of the most interesting places Northwestern part of the country and it's home to The area was founded back in the 6th century and over to the UAE to visit Dubai. Now Dubai is one of what happens when a city has a blank slate, and buildings and structures in the world. It's home building at 830 meters high. When I was there went down to watch the spectacular Dubai fountain a great time walking around and enjoying the I did while I was in Dubai was I went on a desert got in some cars and drove on the dunes. It was a sunset and experiencing the crazy deserts of the to visit Nepal. Nicknamed the roof of the world, 8000 meters high including the world's tallest probably flying to the capital city of Kathmandu. Mountains famous for its temples and monasteries. Everest Base Camp. You can start by flying into weeks to make the round-trip Journey. Base camp is such an incredible country and I hope you all of Pakistan. I think Pakistan is one of the most of landscapes but my favorite feature of Pakistan and after Nepal they are home to the tallest places in Pakistan for me is fairy Meadows. It's this sketchy road to get to. It's shadowed over by in the world at 8125 meters and the overall glacier and everything. I mean Pakistan's Mountains visit the country of Sri Lanka. located right below landscapes and intriguing destinations. One of Sigiriya, or Lion's Rock. it's this massive monolith there's an ancient Fortress that was built on the best preserved examples of ancient urban to India to visit the Taj Mahal. When I think mind. It was complete in the year 1653 and took to complete. It was built by the Mughal Emperor favorite wife. It just blows my mind that this was a symbol for India and receives over 6 million in India is Varanasi. Located on the Ganges River, sites in India, as it serves as a central place for the oldest continually inhabited cities dating culture here is just on another level, truly is going to visit Ladakh. Located on the borders of regions in India, as it's nestled in some of the of beautiful monasteries and sites to see and the also one of the best places to see snow leopards. One third of its India and the other part is world with an elevation of 4350 meters. The color a contrast between the red arid mountains. After Now when people imagine paradise, the Maldives the Maldives is a country made up 1192 Islands. crystal clear waters. I mean if you're looking for vacation, the Maldives is your place. After we're completely surrounded by India, Bangladesh is a and culture. The capital city of the country is and wild places I've seen. If you want to see tracks offer some incredible landscapes with its highest place in the country is located. If you the world's longest natural beach with a length of country that deserves to be experienced. Now of Bagan. Located in the country of Myanmar, 2000 Buddhist temples, pagodas, and monasteries. Kingdom resided here. Which later became Myanmar. the country. Afterwards we're going to head to temple complex and it's the largest religious most remarkable ancient structures on Earth and was built in the 12th century by the Khmer Empire used as a Hindu Temple dedicated to the god Vishnu used to worship Buddhism. Today it's one of the world and I totally understand why. Afterwards Located in the northern part of the biggest waterfall in Southeast Asia. I mean the iconic karst mountains in the background. You can I mean this place is just freaking magical. Another the Gulf of Tonkin, Ha Long Bay is this incredible limestone Islands covered in Lush vegetation. Bay is by taking a cruise. It can just be a few cruise so you can witness the Ha Long bay during to Thailand to visit the Phi Phi Islands. I first saw film &quot;The Beach&quot;. To reach the Phi Phi Islands, you can main islands have lots of amenities such as hotels after the other Islands. I think my favorite can boat around and snorkel. Another amazing place located near Krabi and it has this almost perfect jagged mountains on both sides. Another amazing outside of Krabi and you can arrive by boat the beach and it's a perfect place to watch the of Thailand to visit Khao Sok National Park. This lake and even though it was created as a result of limestone mountains and rainforest vegetation, home If you can, I recommend staying here more than one floating houses and just go hiking or boating the Philippines to visit Palawan. When I think of the Jagged Limestone Islands, crystal clear waters, think one of the best places in Palawan is El Nido. venture off to. I mean it's truly is Paradise here. landscapes to El Nido, but I'd say it's better phenomenal travel destinations. After we're gonna one of the most popular travel destinations the and incredible tropical landscapes, it's easy to in Bali is Nusa Penida. It's an island right White Cliffs coupled with perfect beaches. prime surf spots, and jungle waterfalls. After Bali, the neighboring island of Java, I think mount in the world. The volcano itself isn't anything the other volcanoes in the background is just volcano, you can hike up to the top and walk around Indonesia is the Komodo National Park. It's an home to the Komodo dragon. My favorite island in no development on it and there's also no Komodo I'd love to sail around these islands one day. called the last Paradise on Earth, Raja Ampat is for having some of the most pristine marine life go diving. One of the most impressive places on dozens of these little islets and coves to Paradise on Earth. After we're gonna head over voted as one of the best beaches in the world Islands and it can be reached by taking a boat or this white color and when combined with the blue that winds back into the Island's Inland. It's just famous places on Australia is the Great Barrier Australia and it's the biggest reef system in It can be seen from space and is the world's largest it's one of the seven natural wonders of the ocean's fish species and there's also plenty a dream to go scuba diving here one day. Another the Barrier Reef is the Daintree Rainforest. It's possibly the oldest rainforest in the world, which is home to animals such as the Cassowary, which Rainforest has Landscapes that I had no idea existed so scenic with sea mountains covered in the lush to head into Australia's center to visit the you'll notice that basically all the cities are on orange desolate landscape with hardly anyone iconic landmark of the Outback is the Uluru or sandstone it's a sacred site for the indigenous ancient Spirits. There's definitely an energy in the desolate Outback. After we're going to visit movies like Lord of the Rings, I think it's safe to New Zealand is made up of 700 Islands, but the two for more adventure and crazy Landscapes, I'd say Southern Alps where Mount Cook is located. It's the 12,218 feet high. Another cool spot is the Milford the Milford Sound is a fjord that was carved the wettest places in the world and the whole area If you're more into beaches, the North Island Cove, it's located on the Coromandel Peninsula you'll be rewarded with one of New Zealand's most the beautiful islands of French Polynesia. Located in over 100 Islands. One of the most stunning islands even look real. Just how they're is a coral reef that blows my mind. It couldn't be more perfect, if of the ocean Bungalows that are built right above volcano called Mount Otemanu and it stands at favorite Islands in French Polynesia is Mo'orea. Bora Bora, the whole island of Mo'orea is surrounded are just stunning. Another cool thing about Mo'orea places to see the humpback whales, who come months. While we're still in the South Pacific, of the Cook Islands, Rarotonga is home to 13,000 has some impressive mountains and a coral reef really cool rock formation called the needle that visit the Isle of Pines, located just off of New Island. I mean when I imagine a Tropical Paradise of Pines sure is an exception. To reach the island there you can explore the crystal clear lagoons, accompanied with white sand and endless pine trees. I mean it's just such a unique and beautiful island. St Lucia. Of all the Caribbean islands, I think St features of Saint Lucia is its pitons which out of the ocean. I mean I could totally imagine backdrop. Right above St Lucia is the island of beautiful. It has everything from historical towns on the island is Mount Pele with an elevation of of Saint Pierre, it was founded back in 1635 and was known as the Paris the Caribbean. In 1902 Mount Pele erupted and the whole town restored and I just love the backdrop it has my favorite places in the Caribbean is Guadeloupe. a French overseas region. One of the most beautiful commune that you can reach by ferry from the this fortification called Fort Napoleon and it the bay you get up there are just phenomenal. Afterwards we're going to head over to Central America to experience Belize. Belize is a little biased because I lived there for over places I've ever been. It's home to the second home to animals, crystal clear waters, and ancient ruin called Xunantunitch. It's one of Belize's Xunantunich translates to sculpture of the lady. the Great Blue Hole and when you think of Belize 1000 feet wide and 400 feet deep truly one of the head over to Guatemala to visit Tikal. Located in of the most incredible archaeological sites in the Century BC but Tikal really began to flourish the capital of one of the most powerful ancient 60,000 Mayans in Tikal and the surrounding area. was like to live back then. Around the end of the due to overpopulation and lack of food. Today it's and marveling at all the temples. Afterwards, Pyramids of Teotihuacan. Located about an hour is one of the most impressive archaeological been established around 100 BC and grew to be time, with an estimated population of 125,000 of the Sun. It was constructed around 200 A.D and the Pyramid of the moon is another impressive with the Avenue of the Dead with the Cerro Gordo to Venezuela to witness Angel Falls! Known as the Now special thanks to my buddy Ellis Van many other parts of this video. He ventured into to get some of the world's most incredible footage dropping. I'll link his video of his Venezuelan check it out for yourself. Now to reach Angel Falls of Canaima and from there you'll take a day boat not an easy journey to get there, the falls are topic of waterfalls, the world's tallest single drop It's called Kaieteur Falls and has a height of 226 small airport. I just love the remotest of this the powerful waterfall. Afterwards we're going to Located in northeastern part of the country, Lencois Maranhenses is one of the most unique landscapes in South America. It's this almost endless array of lagoons during the rainy season. You may recognize Avengers movie. Afterwards, we're going gonna visit de Janeiro a few years ago and I have to say I've ever visited. It's home to beautiful beaches famous places in Rio de Janeiro is the Christ the 38 meters tall and sits on top of the stone Pinnacle it was absolutely packed with people but I still this iconic location. Another one of my favorite visiting Brazil, this is what I imagined Rio to be Rio de Janeiro is just a Vibe all around. After Angel Falls, Iguazu is one of the most recognizable right in the Brazilian and Argentina border and world. At its peak, Iguazu can have up to 3,300 Iguazu Falls is the Devil's Throat. It's this water goes. After we're going to venture down to and Argentina, Patagonia is easily one of the most Norway, Sounds like New Zealand, and the mountains famous places in Patagonia is Torres Del Paine. It's a national park home to animals such as Guanacos Granite Towers. Another one of the most well-known range located on the Argentinian side. I think in the world. There's several glacial lakes and The area is just spectacular. After we're Rapa Nui, Easter Island is located over 3000 km remote islands in the world. It's believed that Polynesians who sailed from French Polynesia. What Moai statues. There are over 900 Moai on the island mystery how these statues were transported but Moai across the island. Pretty fascinating stuff. Nestled in the Andes Mountains, Machu Picchu stands in the world. It was built around 1450 by the an estate for the Incan Emperor at the time. probably due to the nearby Spanish conquests, smallpoxs. The Citadel was overground by the forest by the American Explorer, Hiram Bingham. Today, archaeological sites. To reach Machu Picchu you can we're going to head over to Bolivia to experience mountains lies the largest Salt Flat in the world. is this little island called Incahuasi. it's nothing around and it's home to Giant cacti and interesting fact about these Salt Flats is that mirror. If you can't make it to South America, in the state of Utah in the USA. I've been there and worth the journey. After we're gonna visit the Galapagos Islands are volcanic archipelago made century and later popularized by Charles Darwin species. Some of my favorite animals on the island After we're gonna head to the Hawaiian Islands is the oldest making it the most beautiful and when you go there you'll understand why. One of There are very few places in the world, if any, that Coast is filled with sea cliffs that rise over narrow valleys that empty to the sea below. There One of the best ways is by helicopter it can be views of the cliffs. Another great way is through from a new perspective and you can also jump off truly phenomenal. If you're on a budget like me, go to have an amazing experience exploring we're going to visit the island of Oahu. Of all is my favorite. I lived here for almost a year times of my life.If you love hiking, surfingm and most popular places on Oahu is Waikiki. It's a is lined with high-rise hotels and it's a perfect my favorite places on Oahu is the North Shore. The that is home to some of the greatest surfing in the North Shore is the Bonzai pipeline. The waves that causes the waves to break just right. During competitions are held here and the waves can reach just love swimming on the North Shore, the water is we're gonna head to California to visit Yosemite stunning national parks in all the U.S. It's famous gigantic waterfalls. One of my favorite features piece of granite that rises over 5000 feet from the park is the Yosemite Falls. it's one of the feet. From Yosemite we're going to take a drive Big Sur is one of America's most scenic roads, views of the misty coastline. One of the coolest just so photogenic with the coastline. Now another which is this 80-foot waterfall that falls onto going to make the drive up to Oregon. I have all the US. It's home to massive volcanoes and trip through the state a few years ago and it to some of the best Coastline in America, I highly One of my favorite places on the drive is Cannon recognize it. Another beautiful spot is the Samuel beautiful spots on the Oregon coast in my opinion. Located in Wyoming, Yellowstone is one of the most famous places in Yellowstone is the Grand in the world with a depth of 160 feet and from can walk on the platforms around the spring but up to the Grand Prismatic Spring Overlook. Another of the world's most famous geysers because of and the boiling water can reach 185 feet high. Southwest. Composed of states such as Utah and beautiful places in the USA. It has some of the America's best national parks. One of my favorite Moab is a hub for adventure and exploration what's do in and around it. One of my favorites is the outside of Moab. It's home to the Titan Tower Rock Tower in the U.S with a prominence of 700 and experience all the towers From Below which Another cool spot right outside of Moab is Corona Devon Supertramp's video where they made a giant a fairly easy hike of 2.4 miles round trip. If you early in the morning or in the evening and it's it you realize how huge it is. One of the most Grand Canyon. Known as one of the seven natural mile long Gorge that has been carved and sculpted endless activities and forms of exploration. Nearly year and it's easy to see why. After we're gonna wilderness, Alaska is it. It's a land full of some when I look at the Landscapes here they're just in Alaska is the Aleutian Islands. I think this may the US. Located in the Bering Sea, the Aleutian settlement on the islands is Unalaska with about decent amount of infrastructure considering here remind me of Iceland with its volcanic full of History. During World War II, Japan landed it the only Invasion on U.S soil during World to Canada to visit British Columbia. Sandwiched right an incredible area full of massive mountains and if you're into action sports it has some of the also where the ski resort Whistler is located. While Banff National Park. If you love gigantic mountains and It's Canada's oldest National Park and easily one of Moraine Lake. It just has this stunning turquoise It's hard to match that scenery. After we're From the snow-covered northern island of Sapporo, has so much to offer. When you get to Japan the world with a population over 37 million. From outside to visit Mount Fuji. The active volcano 12,388 feet. It's a perfect cone shape and acts as view Mount Fuji from is Lake Kawaguchi. You can and overall it's just a beautiful area nearby is incredible views of the Sacred volcano. Afterwards magical mountains of Zhangjiajie. Located in of the world's most bizarre scenery. The park is forest floor. The are covered in Lush vegetation These rock pillars are the inspiration behind the we're going to visit the province of Guangxi. place is absolutely incredible. When I imagine Lush valley's, vast cave systems, and mountains that One of my favorite places in the province is is full of the iconic karst mountains throughout uniquely shaped mountains they are made so fascinating. Anyways I just want to take a boat has to offer. Afterwards we're going to visit notable feature of China, and with reason. When I giant wall that stretches across the country, but different dynasties as far back as the 7th Century today are the walls that were built by the Ming about two hours outside of Beijing. In total making it one of the greatest architectural Feats Russia to visit the Kamchatka Peninsula. This in all of Russia. It's a sea battered land dotted version of Iceland with a little bit of Alaska. and some of the most stunning places I've that lead to Kamchatka, so the best way to get one of the most beautiful yet undiscovered places to Siberia. Siberia is just this massive region land area but only about 25 percent of Russia's and harsh weather. One of the craziest places in in the southern part of Siberia, Lake Baikal is the more than 20 percent of all the world's fresh water. of 1642 meters. It's home to one of the only fresh freeze to be two meters thick. One of the easiest have a winter workout and ice skate on the world's visit the Altai mountains. This mountain range totally understand why. I'm just blown away by the range that is located not only in Russia but also translates to Golden Mountain and I have to say its unique colors and golden vegetation. Afterwards is just one of the most fascinating places, it's a part of Europe and Asia. The bosphorus strait, Europe and Asia, runs right through the city. The far back as the 7th Century BC and it became the of the most important features of Istanbul is the A.D as a Christian church but after the fall of into a mosque. At the time of its completion it was building to use a fully pentative Dome. I mean to visit Cappadocia. Located in the heart rock formations and sky is full of hotter balloons. BC, today it's one of turkey's most recognized Goreme, almost every morning The Horizon and Goreme It doesn't get more magical than that. Aafter we're With some of Europe's best coastline, pristine Sardinia is the place to be! theThemain reason Goloritze. I think it's easily one of the most massive pointy rock formations coupled with green immediately went for a swim. I mean the visibility I've ever swam in. Another reason I wanted to go you can Cliff jump. I sent a few jumps off and feeling than sending a Gainer into the ocean. hope you can all visit one day. After Sardinia to say this is one of the most beautiful places to believe this place exists. Now one of the Positano. When you see this place in real backdrop of the mountains filled with colorful boats and yachts. One of my personal favorite This is easily one of the most scenic beaches Fjord complemented with an incredible Arch Bridge many places you can jump from. Aterwards Aeolian islands. Now the Aeolian Islands are an located off of Sicily's northern coast. The a result they are home to some of the most bizarre some of the most phenomenal places the islands archipelago is probably Stromboli. It's nicknamed you can see lava shooting out the top. We took a some of the best views of the volcano. After we're be one of the most iconic cities in the world. It's taking place in 753 BC. Ancient Rome's architecture year. One of the most well-known structures of Amphitheater that was completed in 80 A.D it's anywhere from 50 to 80,000 Spectators. You can get guided tour to witness the interior. Another Fountain. it's this Baroque styled fountain that Rome I hope you can all visit one day. While we're Located in central Italy, Tuscany is known for its my favorite places there is San Gimignano. It's and incredibly preserved medieval features. Tuscany, it's considered to be the birthplace endless. Whether you walk across the Ponte Vecchio Florence is sure to take you back in time. After to say these are my favorite mountains in all mountains and I consider it to be some of the endless jagged peaks, scenic alpine lakes, and just the dolomites is Seceda. I remember the first time existed. The green grass slopes contrasted with makes one of the most scenic landscape combos di Siusi. it's home to the largest Alpine meadows mountain with the farm huts create the scene straight to Switzerland to visit the Alps. I have to say regions in the world. There's just something landscapes, and history that exist there. In general countries in the world and you'll know what I mean only downside is that it's very expensive. One of It's this enchanting Village that is overlooked great place is to walk around and explore and it's hikes. You can take up the Gornergrat Railway to surrounding mountains. Another one of my favorite this magical village with waterfalls that descend you visit here it's just hard to believe that gonna head over to Portugal to visit Madeira. Located Madeira is often called the Hawaii Europe and favorite place on Madeira is Pico do Arieiro. it's you're so high up you'll often be in or above trails are so well maintained and you get some of to hike that far. I was blown away by the dramatic rock. I mean if you're up for adventure in 2023 you the Atlantic we're going to visit Portugal's a group of nine islands like none other. They with rolling pastures and green scenery I mean The largest island on the Azores is Sao Miguel. is Lagoa das Sete Cidades. It's a Twin Lake situated in the crater is blue. Now another one of my favorite Islands point in all of Portugal called Mount Pico. It's a a last erupted in 1720. I just can't believe the scenery of this volcanic archipelago. After my favorite island in the world Mallorca. When it. Mallorca is home to Crystal clear water, windy roads, When I started solo traveling this is one a special place in my heart. One of my favorite going to be blown away by the beauty of this place. to Prime cliff jumping spots. When I was there I off a massive 60-foot Arch. It was terrifying but memories. After we're gonna head up to Ireland to coast of southern Ireland, the Skelligs are set of locations. The only way to reach the islands is by took us about an hour to reach the great Skellig. stoked. We just started walking up the Island's the top to the monasteries. Now the history of monastic settlement dates back to the 6th Century on this isolated island. They built these beehive designed to make sure no water could get into them. It's believed there are about 12 monks that lived here at a time in the 13th century the monks then Skellig has become a place for pilgrimage all places I've ever been and I couldn't recommend to Scotland to visit the Isle of Skye. This is one World. You literally feel like you're in fairy tale. summers ago and it was one of the most memorable on the island sky is the Old Man of Storr. It's felt like I was on the set of Game of Thrones. When and just get you so pumped. Now to get to the old walk through some conservation Gates and you'll the Old Man of Storr is supposedly a giant lived thumb was left sticking out of the ground creating head to the Arctic Circle to visit the Lofoten Islands. The Lofoten is located in northern Norway and even though it is in the Arctic I was lucky enough to go there a few summers ago through the islands. Our first Pit Stop was that Henningsvaer is home to the world's most scenic have a ball we had a good time playing on the Henningsvaer. If you want to do an amazing hike I four kilometer round trip Trek and I promise it's be amazed by the landscape. It has mountains that the Caribbean, and green as a tropical island. exist especially in the Arctic Circle. Afterwards recently and I was just blown away by the beauty in particular because it's home to majority of on another level. One of Norway's most well-known driving about five or six hours from Oslo. now the features is the Seven Sisters waterfall that One of my favorite features in the Fjord is Skagefla. now to get there you need to take a ferry are just breathtaking and the grassroof cabins one of my favorite places in Western Norway is Geirangerfjord, it's this Glacier lake with distinct the scenery around the lake is unbelievable. Afer Located in Fnland's northernmost region, If you can handle the cold, Lapland may be one of although the Aurora Borealis are abundant throughout 50 degrees Celsius in the winters so make sure you the snow-covered trees they look like something going to visit the Faroe Islands. located right now I have to say the Faroes are home to some sheer Sea Cliffs to waterfalls straight into the the most scenic places in the It's Islands Faroe Island and the water falls over a hundred favorite place places is the island of Kalsoy. some of the biggest sea cliffs I've ever seen. across Atlantic to visit Greenland. Now Greenland the world but due to its harsh living conditions densely populated place on the planet. Now the the people in Greenland live there. I just think places. They're just endless fjords and wonders to head over to Iceland to experience the land home to some of the most unique landscapes in really switch names because there's no shortage in Iceland is Reynisfjara Beach. It's a black sand what I really loved about the beach is its Basalt how the Vikings must have felt when they washed place in Iceland is the Skogafoss waterfall. It's all Iceland with a drop of over 62 meters. On the It's this uniquely shaped Mountain that looks like you might get lucky and experience the Northern I hope everyone can witness it at least once in Germany to visit the Neuschwanstein Castle. I have Europe. It's what inspired Disney's Sleeping Beauty princess now the castle is nestled at the very tip perfectly in the mountains with a phenomenal 360 When I was there we walked around the castle when you're up I found a great vantage point in the trees with can't get over the beauty of this place. Afterwards we're gonna head to France to visit one of my favorite places I've visited in Europe. to the tidal Island, instead you can park in the or walk about four kilometers. I definitely the island it's quite the experience and it just throughout the ages as they came here. When you feel like you're walking into a Harry Potter sheep in the fields. It definitely was the another one of my favorite places in France is Azure, the French Riviera is one of the most highly in southern France on the Mediterranean Sea. One this medieval Hilltop Village that was founded the village you'll feel like you're going back in you check out the Calanques near Cassis. They offer beaches, surrounded by daunting cliffs. The one I When I reached the beach I was just amazed by the Pines and blues of the water. We went for a swim find a cliff jump spot and after swimming down the high and sent a few jumps off it. After we're 17th Century Paris has been Europe's major Center most visited city and with all of its attractions The most recognizable attraction is the Eiffel 324 meters high which made it the tallest man-made attraction is the Louvre Museum. It's the world's Mona Lisa. You can also take a drive around the of Versailles. there's just so much to do in this visit the medieval monasteries of Meteora. Located to six monasteries built upon nearly inaccessible facing attacks from Turkish Raiders so they needed decided to start building these monasteries upon for the monks because the only way to reach be drawn up whenever the monks felt threatened. The monasteries were built during the 14th century. and when I got there I was just amazed by the perched right on the cliff Edge and you would during medieval times. If you're ever in Greece, final location we're going to visit one of my here twice so far and I just keep wanting to come I've ever been. From thousand foot White Cliffs, to it all. The most famous place in Zakynthos is the from Turkey was carrying Contraband and it crashed. Over the years the sand has built up visually stunning locations in the world. The one and headed to the beach. I was just baffled thousand feet high. After checking out the beach, just had a good time exploring the cliff, there's and the view was just as impressive. I was amazed color while the Setting Sun turned the cliffs to the rest of my life. Well that is it for my Earth I'll have to make a part two. Let me know where I also started a second Channel where I make in your life. I did a video on the Wonders of the on Instagram and Tiktok at shirley.films