These actually have of memory bits. Bits that store zeros in them. Data is at the center of generative AI, and data requires these. Memory chips. And there's only one in the U.S. Micron. Micron. Micron. The maker of building blocks of all Micron stock is up more of the year, largely hype. And while memory is semiconductor than the processing units and sending other chip stocks memory chips are needed CPU, and that means space than other kinds of The new fab that we're right now that we just October will be over So over 12 times of the me. In addition to that, to build four of those for a total of 2.4 At $100 billion, over 20 in four chip fabrication upstate New York, is U.S. chip project in It's a commitment Micron from New York and a bid funding. We have to make it worth It's still a competitive competing with the rest But being the only U.S. with risk. Micron is the bans on U.S. chips as the technological dominance. Micron has absolutely consider this 15 year war CNBC went to Micron's to see the start of its advanced memory soil and ask how it will amid a market oversupply that's casting doubt on that comes from China. Micron was founded in engineers and one of basement of a dental By 1980, it was building out a revolutionary small These chips, used for can be quickly accessed of the early personal So there are two main NAND. DRAM stands for Memory, and it is a means that when the power of its information. It's very fast, and it used for real time NAND flash memory is your storage cards, and meaning it'll still store power is removed. Micron went public in Remember our name when Scott Gatzemeier joined as And at the time, DRAM was This was kind of as the to take off, and it was something that I wanted Now he heads up Micron's New York and Boise, where The features that we build devices are some 15 Well, a human hair is those devices. So any, dead skin could cause equipment, our wafers, lower. So this is why we the gowns inside of the CEO Sanjay Mehrotra says expansion and the four are necessary because of industry has grown At the turn of the about 10% of Today, you know, it the total global revenue. Anything that amount of memory. This trend of AI, memory and that makes AI So as AI gets bigger, Memory used to be a the years it's whittled players. But the name of the game low cost at the same Otherwise, you're going market. And there used to were out there that were there's only three at When it comes to the DRAM, South Korean giant leader in revenue, out of Korea, and then Micron has made 11 Numonyx, Elpida, Inotera, For a very long period, new fab, but they were market share by acquiring which were either going Unlike most kinds of short supply during the and its competitors did the pandemic fueled boom sales. Then, Micron's in 2022 due to weakened smartphones, a downturn the chip industry. Micron limit oversupply and laid in the beginning of 2023. It now employs some When I look at this market it's always feast or And we have an oversupply Give it a couple of an undersupply. Micron supplies memory in Motorola, Asus and more growth. The mix of smartphones is higher-end smartphones, smartphones, which well. So when we look expect that year over smartphone unit sales But Micron is also focused like automotive and Its most advanced Memory, is set for volume HBM helps AI models like conversations and user more human-like It is able to pack 50% memory cube. It is able to give you and is able to give you better power and And these are all the critically important in Unlike the market wide and slow device sales, challenge that the Korean China banned some of citing cybersecurity About 25% of Micron's from China markets, and is at risk given the CAC Last year, the US barred supplying China with Micron is absolutely just now. They weren't the the last. Have you become a pawn in chip war between the two What I can tell you is for U.S. and China to provide an businesses so that they predictable manner. Micron, of course, is customers across various Meanwhile, Micron has $2.75 billion assembly India. So Micron is obviously base. It has testing and China, and obviously they diversify out of China. India has been trying to multinational chipmakers country through multiple this is the first major For now, Micron is still turning to memory from smaller Chinese memory That's possible because commodity, meaning it's between products from although that's not What I'm going to find we get back to the boom Samsung can't fulfill all China diving back into lifting any restrictions. As for whether Micron's national security risk I believe it's a front or a system. It's pretty nefarious into something That would be technology of. We think China was being Micron. In October, Schumer led a visit China for a rare in part to discuss the China's upset with the very smart prohibition of chip manufacturing we're going to stick up This also isn't the first the center of U.S.-China In 2018, the U.S. cut ties with Chinese after accusing it of claim the Chinese company Micron told CNBC its IP the commodity business of So behind me you see we have over 54,000 Our primary revenue our IP to manufacture our The week before Schumer's its 45th anniversary by for its new Boise fab. Both Boise and New York advanced 300 millimeter technology on them. The most advanced size correct? In volume Micron's U.S. footprint headquarters and R&amp;D lagging edge memory fab offices in five other Its leading nodes are Taiwan. By 2026, Micron edge production at the And then in our state of York, when it's fully over 100,000 wafers per Each of these silicon than 1000 steps over 90 automated overhead The vehicles that deliver 23,000 miles annually in Memory isn't a high cost computing powerhouses that's actually one even bigger than those So memory is very cost get economies of scale to a level that meets the Another reason the fab is huge, expensive machinery extreme ultraviolet for printing the chips So the sheer size of this massive. There's over The tool weighs 20 tons. It has to be delivered on to us in 40 shipping 20 semis. EUV machines are only made the Netherlands, and taking incredible amounts Micron says each of its equivalent of 25,000 Renewable, reliable energy our fabs. In the U.S., we renewable, reliable that energy is about 25% energy in Asia. Many of those 1,000 steps water. So in New York, we're square foot fabs. Each one of those fabs swimming pools worth of 75% of that water will be on site. Water and power were both settled on U.S. We have an area of just the Finger Lakes, Erie and Lake Ontario, generated primarily by solar. So we're ready for We know it's going to be The energy costs are, lower in the United the world. People are United States, and so is to build that factory. But that gap is narrowing Still, in Arizona, the leader, Taiwan Manufacturing Company, of skilled labor for billion fab under That won't happen in New have a legacy, we have GlobalFoundries, so this us. We're attacking this from through post graduate donators to the STEAM York. We also run chip In fact, my daughter, the chip camp in Boise, Still, the U.S. share of plummeted in recent 20% more to build and U.S. than in Asia. Labor is cheaper there, accessible and government greater. That's why the aside $52.7 billion for in the U.S., and it's no more than 460 other those funds. Senate Schumer thought up the Science Act at the gym in Republican Senator Todd And all of a sudden, when essential to everything edge. And if we didn't not just on chips, but on no longer be the number world. The prosperity in The number of jobs would So I felt a passion about The U.S. has especially memory side of chips. Now, Micron is making big that. Today, only 2% of the production DRAM the U.S., and all of that Manassas, Virginia. With Micron's investments Boise, Idaho, as well as that 2%, over the course be changing to about 15% production coming from In New York, Governor $10 billion Green Chips companies like Micron, for up to $5.5 billion If they hadn't passed the first, I don't think it incentives as necessary encourage existing U.S. manufacturers to continue to woo them, talk about we get out of it 50,000 To make good on its Idaho, Micron is betting relies more and more on data needs, they'll also The large language things like that that demand. We're now moving higher resolution images, All of that requires more available. Micron says construction the end of 2024, and chip 2027, with some major means for the country's manufacturing. 10% of Micron production the U.S., as these complete, nearly 60% of be coming over the course from here in the U.S.