What if I told you that Redis was If you were confused right A ride that ended in the very recent actually not be open source anymore, and and even the founder of Redis himself. It all started in 2007, when as AntiRez on the internet, was It was a very early competitor The main selling point of LLOOGG feature, which Google Analytics Because of the massive amounts of into performance issues using MySQL. Antirez believed that using memory instead like MySQL does, would solve the problem of what we will later know as Redis. In 2009 Antirez published To say it with his own words, at this perfectly stable, but soon it will be an and massively impact how we design The first Hacker News posting of Redis only 23 upvotes and a few comments. But Antirez continued to work on Redis. And soon, Redis started to spread in the who will later turn out to be unicorns. Instagram was entirely built GitHub used it to build a job queuing timeline page performance using Redis. After gaining more popularity, and hired Antirez to continue his In 2013, he got sponsored by the In the same time period around consulting services for Redis. One of them was guarantee data, role in this entire story. In 2014, Garantia Data tried after the pushback of Antirez. They reverted the rebranding and which is still very confusing. Around this time, RedisLabs also services and focused on providing hosted In 2015, a common investor of Pivotal moving AntiRest to RedisLabs. Which employed him shortly after that Investors play a crucial role in stacked, stacked up with VC money. They raised over 347 million US the Silicon Valley bank and more. To set this into perspective, if we wanted with, let's say 5 developers, each a come to 26m over the span of 13 years. Less than a tenth of the After AntiRest transferred over the Labs, He left the project in 2020. In a blog post he explained He never wanted to be a code to express himself. But one quote inside of his goodbye I believe I'm not just leaving Redis programmers, but also in the hands of the community spirit of Redis. In their goodbye blog post, Redis Labs will remain under the 3Class BSD license, only hold true for a few more years. Redis was now led by a team of 5 people, them from Alibaba and one from AWS. One year later, Redis Labs which clearly is what Redis the company was still developing popular cloud providers, essentially And we'll find out soon that they were so, or at least not successful enough. While the Redis core team remained grown to over 700 employees today. I could not even make up roles for all of through the Wayback Machine snapshots of a few of them were busy updating the And on March the 20th, 2024, the Open Source in the company. Redis announced in a blog post that BSD license to a dual licensing model, it under two different licenses. you can choose which is the lesser evil. While the 3 Class BSD License is one initiative the new licenses are not which Therefore Redis will no Before I continue, I have to is not legal advice in any way. The new licenses are called Server Source Available License 2.0. The SSPL was originally created for uses SSPL license software as part for the entirety of the service. Including without limitations All application program interfaces, software, backup software, storage All such that a user can run an service source code you made available. Well, this sounds like a nightmare of proprietary licensed software in open source for legal reasons. After the SSPL was submitted to the become an approved open source license, piece calling it a Fox Pen Source License The other license in question is the This license does not require you restricts who can use it directly. In the license terms it says, You may not or a modified version available to third the version or a modified version in a the software available to third parties. Now, again, I am not a lawyer and this like a very vague definition to me. And when we look at the FAQs for relicensed to the same licenses before. They state multiple times that But if not even Redis themselves No matter where exactly the limits of the new licenses cloud providers Redis services without paying a fee. Which was obviously the goal. But it is also important If Redis would have had this license would have never been able to offer their sourcing their entire infrastructure. They destroyed the very thing that made With the license change, the AWS employee for four years, announced that she will no that there was a real price to pay with But not only some of the main The pull request with the license contributors and users of Redis. Again, this is not legal advice, but was contributed under a completely all BSD notices which are required I cannot imagine that is what about caring about the legacy of With the legal uncertainty people safe to say that they will find them. There is already KeyDB, which is a drop few days before Redis announced the Garnet, a cash store that can be Both of them are open source. And it would really come as a surprise develop their own Redis Fork as well, Elasticsearch changed their license. It is really a no brainer for anyone alternatives, and for the most part you project as well, without any problems. So when the license change introduces uncertainties, driving away the earth would they do it anyways? They have to have known the We've seen those exact In the end it is hard to see how a massively VC funded company, to see a return on investment. And there's even more proof for that. Just one year before the Bengal stepped down as a CEO. and was replaced by Rowan Trollope, who license change announcement on their blog. Rowan Trollope was not involved previously the CEO of a call center put in this position by investors to Redis the company will probably make a lot even years from companies that use Redis hosted service, but This comes at a cost. The cost of losing such a There is a debate to be had about but this is not about funding. AWS and Alibaba showed that they are by paying people to work on Redis. While there are way too many of failed open source funding. This is a story about a company that pressured by investors to deliver, and As of the moment I'm recording this video, contributors employed by Redis the company So we do not really know what happened opinion about all of this is, but it wronged by all of what happened. If you want to find out more about I highly recommend you to check in the description down below. If you want to see what Antirez is he views the world, you should take posts updates on his projects. Since leaving Redis, he also about Artificial Intelligence. And also, one more special shoutout might have stolen some memes from. All the sources for this video are Redis might slowly disappear over Antirez and its legacy will live on. See you in the next video.