Israel means a lot of different things to many people, and is one of the most dynamic and diverse countries in the world. While often associated with conflict and political unrest, it's also a beautiful and fascinating place to travel to. With stunning natural landscapes, vibrant urban centers, ancient historic sites, and welcoming people. On this journey, I'm traveling through the Holy Land, an area important to the three main monotheistic religions, and today known as Israel and Palestine. In this second episode I'm exploring Israel, a young country located in a region that has been at the From the vibrant streets and beaches of modern Tel Aviv, to the atmospheric alleys and religious landmarks of Jerusalem. From surreal desert landscapes in the Negev, From the historic ruins of Caesarea, Along the way, I meet some of the people that call this land home, This is my first long trip after the pandemic started, and I'm grateful for the chance to travel again. It's also my second visit to the region, and therefore I use both new and older footage for this video. We begin this journey in Tel Aviv, a modern, lively city known for its liberal It's Israel's second largest city, and also regarded as attracting people from around the country, and the world. Many travelers start their trip to Tel Aviv on one of its The city has over 14 kilometers of beautiful coastline to explore, offering a variety of activities, for young and old. As you wander beyond the shore, you quickly enter From airconditioned shopping malls and wide boulevards, From trendy cafes and restaurants to corner kiosks, offering much needed refreshments to the thirsty traveler. The best ways to get around are on foot, or as many One of the best ways to get around Tel Aviv is on bicycle, There's plenty of bicycle lanes and the city is very bike friendly. One of my personal favorite places, both for food where everything under the Middle Eastern Sun is sold. Alright guys, this is the Carmel market, one of Tel Aviv's busiest It's buzzing with activity and gives a good idea of the energetic While Tel Aviv is a young city and lacks the history the Jaffa neighborhood is a notable exception. This ancient town has seen conquest and strife for centuries. But is known today for its beautiful old city, a strong There are many ways to travel to and from Tel Aviv, but perhaps the most interesting one is by bus. I'm now walking through Tel Aviv's central bus station, It's a mssive station, I believe the second largest in the world. It has seven floors, (and) it has a theater that is It started as a very ambitious project, The station feels quite neglected at the moment, but also where graffiti artists can do whatever they want. Each floor has its own story and character, Just like you could spend days, or weeks, For me, however, it was time to travel to the North of Israel. Not actually by bus, but through the nearby train station. I'm now walking in Caesarea, one of Israel's It's absolutely massive and there's all kinds of things to see, including bathing houses, palaces, courtyards, an old hippodrome and circus as well. It's impressive. Probably the most impressive, however, is this Roman theater, And it's still being used until today. Caesarea's history dates back over two millennia, when Herod the Great ordered the construction of After his death, the city became the capital of the eventually to be devastated by the Mamluk sultan Beybars. It's only recently that Caesarea has started to re-emerge. Archaeologists have now uncovered a large part of the ancient port city, providing a fascinating insight into historic times. Today, it is a popular tourist sight, and also boasts Haifa, built on the slopes of Mount Carmel, Its top sight is the world famous Baha'i gardens, Decorated with beautiful flower beds, fountains, statues, and lawns, It's also a religious place, important to people There's a lot more to do in Haifa, but I only spend a few hours here, before traveling on to other destinations. This time by car. As I continue my way North, I arrive in Akko, a stunning Akko's history goes back many centuries. Alexander the Great was here, the Romans, Now it's a small Israeli town in the North of the country. Absolutely beautiful narrow alleyways, very atmospheric. Many of the alleys and streets of Akko are pedestrian only, From intriguing art galleries to the breezy city wall promenade. From the small but attractive bazaar, to beautiful Many of the mosques are still used today, as Akko is For some of Akko's most captivating sights, This intricate system of tunnels, built by the Crusader Templars, And perhaps even more impressive is the Knights Hall, where a medieval world is not that hard to envision. We travel onwards to the Golan Heights, located on a volcanic plateau in the Northeast of Israel. It's a popular region for holidaymakers, offering The Golan are also very suitable for all kinds of outdoor activities. A lot of people go cycling here. I'm walking now on one of the many hiking trails, in a national park, up to a waterfall, so let's have a look. A big part of this hike is on this wooden boardwalk, Really beautiful. While large parts of Israel experience a warm and dry climate, this region actually receives considerable amounts of rainfall, resulting in very different landscapes. After a decent hike it's time for a well deserved lunch, The Druze are an ethnic and religious minority, and have been With a full stomach, it's time to travel to the highest Located at just over 2,200 meters, the way up here So the last part is by cable car, to get up It's quite high and quite windy, but also very beautiful. Almost there. Mount Hermon is a popular ski resort in Winter, It's also a military, bordering Syria and Lebanon, The Golan Heights were captured from Syria in 1967, after a fierce battle with neighboring states. It was fought over again during the Yom Kippur war, six years later. The vast majority of the population fled, and many of the These days, a ceasefire is supervised by the United Nations, reminding visitors of the tense security situation in the region. After briefly visiting the towns of Tsfat and Tiberias, I arrive in Nazareth, one of Christianity's It's also Israel's largest Arab city, and regarded Good morning from a chilly but sunny Nazareth, This is one of Christianity's holiest sites of course. I'm walking on the grounds of the Basilica of the Annunciation. Very impressive, probably one of the most impressive Many Christians believe the Basilica stands and is the place where Angel Gabriel announced to her You can spend hours soaking up the spiritual atmosphere, The Basilica is located in the old city of Nazarath, an intriguing place to get lost in, with narrow streets It's also a good place for breakfast or lunch, I welcome everyone from Europe, from all the world, There are many other places worth your time in Nazareth, Mary's Well, the White Mosque, and my personal favorite, Nazareth Village. This re-creation of a first century village gives visitors the chance Few places evoke so much imagination as Jerusalem, one of the world's oldest cities, and holy Walking into the Old City can be a magical experience, and to many visitors feels like entering a different world, and era. While Jerusalem is a spiritual and historic center, where traditional lifestyles blend with cosmopolitian ideas. To many tourists and pilgrims, the Old City is the most It's divided into four quarters, the Christian, It's in or near these neighborhoods that you find some of the The Western Wall is one of Israel's most famous sites, and the It functions as a massive open air synagogue, It can feel both intimate and overwhelming, especially on Jewish holidays, when crowds of people While the Western Wall is truly impressive, This area, referred to as the Temple Mount, was the which was destroyed in the year 70 CE. Together with the First Jewish Temple, this is regarded Due to entry restrictions, Jews are not allowed to visit here, and have chosen to worship at the former Temple's To Muslims, the Temple Mount is known as and is home to two of Islam's most sacred buildings, It's regarded as the thrid holiest site after Mecca and Medina, and holds a special place in the hearts and minds of many Muslims. As a traveler, you have the chance to visit these grounds Not far from here is the Via Dolorosa, the route that Jesus is believed to have taken You can walk in His footsteps, all the way to the one of the most important churches in Christianity. This is the place of crucifixion, where Christians believe Jerusalem is also a contested place, and forms a crucial part While Israel controls the city and has made it its capital, You will therefore see a lot of security around the city. You can spend days, if not weeks, exploring the Old City, but Jerusalem has many other characters as well. Walking the charming Mamilla shopping street, for instance, while the moving Yad Vashem teaches people Other places to visit include Ein Karem village, Jaffa street, which gives an insight into the city's love for food. So this is the very center of the Mahane Yehuda market, They basically sell everything here. Fresh foods, but (there are) also a lot of restaurants and little bars. It's lively to say the least. Because of its importance and its beauty, We continue our tour in Negev, a vast region in the South of Israel, comprising of arid mountains and surreal desert landscapes. Known for its ancient trading routes, stretching today's Negev is best explored by car. I'm now walking through the Ein Avdat national park, one of the Quite a scarcity here of course. Beautiful canyon behind me, so let's explore some more. Hiking further into the park you pass streams, pools, and I'm now walking on the edge of one of the waterfalls. It's quite narrow, quite high as well, but a spectacular landscape. There are plenty of other things to see in this part of the Negev, This town is built on the edge of a massive crater, which is nicknamed as the Grand Canyon of Israel. A bizarre landscape of volcanic rocks and colorful sandstone, It's a popular place for outdoor activities, spotting wildlife, including the ibex, or just enjoying the immensity of the place. Driving South, I visit the welcoming kibbutz Neot Semadar, The concept of the kibbutz started over a century ago, And also from the wish to establish a Jewish homeland. While agriculture formed the basis of the kibbutz, today In Neot Semadar, residents have created an arts center, Before arriving in Eilat, I visit two more nature reserves. The narrow, mysterious Red Canyon, near the border with Egypt, and the incredible Timna national park, filled with craggy Good morning from Eilat, I arrived here yesterday evening, I'm now going to snorkel. Eilat is located on the Red Sea, bordering with Egypt, Very curious, very curious. Let's see. The Red Sea is the world's northernmost tropical sea, with beautiful coral reefs and over 1,200 species of fish. Even though it's located on the edge of the sea, Even for the clumsy, inexperienced snorkeler. Very beautiful. Eilat is also a popular holiday destinations for many Israelis, offering affordable hotels, restaurants, I'm walking on salt now. I'm going into the water. I'm now in the water as you can see. I'm floating, The Dead Sea is famous for its incredible high salt levels, almost ten times higher than the ocean, Its main source of water is the Jordan river, and there is no outlet, Living creatures, except certain micro organisms, can't survive here, and people entering the water actually stay afloat. It's important to avoid getting water in your eyes, or swallow it, which is not only very painful, but can even be dangerous. At the same time, the Dead Sea water is said making it a popular destination for people who The Dead Sea's coastline is shared by Israel, Palestine, and Jordan, and is currently situated 430 meters below sea level, It's a place of breathtaking natural beauty, with turquoise, But the Dead Sea is also facing enormous challenges, And it's mostly human activity that is at fault, with water extracted and climate change accelerating the evaporation process. Some of the consequences are visible in the former Sinkholes have swallowed parts of the roads and buildings, Despite attempts to stabilize the retreat, scientists fear that the It's a stark reminder of what can happen And that concludes my journey through Israel, With captivating historic landmarks, important religious sites, spectacular natural landscapes, and welcoming people. I hope this video gave you some travel ideas, or at least provided some new insights into this Thanks for watching, and I hope to see you again next time. Travel safely.