(upbeat happy music) - Roasting a whole turkey for Thanksgiving is certainly iconic, but what if you're just feeding Or maybe they only like to eat white meat. Well, a turkey breast and Erin's here. She's gonna show us a great I have to say, the only thing - You will not be disappointed. - Okay, So we're gonna roast It's easier and more and it's also easier to carve. So we're gonna start with a turkey breast. I have a seven pound turkey breast here. It's whole bone in, and it also has a backbone. Sometimes they don't come with a backbone. So if that's the case, Number one, either you which we are making, or you can replace it with one pound of chicken wings, - Okay. - There will be gravy. - There will be gravy. - I promise. Anytime you work with proteins, it's always good to just pat it dry so it doesn't slip around. It's safer and cleaner as well. - Okay. - We're gonna remove the backbone. So do you see that white line right there? - Yes. - I'm gonna follow that white line all the way up to the back, and I'm gonna take kitchen shears and just start cutting. So again, I'm gonna just follow, I'm gonna trim along this white line. So now I'm gonna grab this and I'm just gonna pop it back. I'm gonna pop out the shoulder joints. There's two. - And myself, chiropractor later. - (laughing) Now I'm just gonna cut through the joint and just separate this out. All right, so now I'm just gonna So as it roasts, you really want that skin to cover the meat. I don't wanna over trim, so it's not hanging over. - Right. - We are all trimmed up. The next step is I'm gonna and I wanna keep the skin intact, so I don't wanna pop through it. So I'm gonna use my hand and my fingers and kind of get under there and just separate any connective tissue. And sometimes you might need the knife just to kind of separate it out. - So better to do this right in the middle with your hand. - Exactly. - Got it. - All right, so that's one side. And again, just kind work it back and expose the whole side of the breast. Now I'm gonna do the other side. So we've exposed all of the meat. The skin is still attached. So now I'm gonna take a and I'm gonna rub it on one And then I'm just gonna kind and I'm gonna repeat on the other side. - All right. - With another teaspoon of kosher salt. - So this is really important to get the salt directly on the meat. - We are salting the meat, exactly. The salt is going to and over time, the meat And so that's gonna help the And it's also gonna kind of and it's gonna allow it to hold onto more moisture as it roasts. - Got it. - So it's gonna be a juicier turkey. - All right. - All right, now I'm just with another teaspoon of kosher salt 'cause there is a little and just wanna make sure Now I'm just kind of making sure that the skin is over the meat and that everything's covered, Put it on a plate and this is gonna go in the refrigerator for 24 hours without a cover on it. The air circulation is gonna and that's gonna give us a crisper skin. And that time is also gonna - Okay. Okay, so Bridget, I air dried turkey breast. - Right. it's skin is a little kind of transparent. It shows that it has dried out. That's gonna give us a much crispier skin. And we're in a 12 inch skillet. I'm gonna brush this with two This is gonna help the skin to brown. - Mmm. Now I'm gonna season it with another teaspoon of kosher salt. As you know, the meat has been seasoned, and now we're just making sure that the skin has a - Got it. - So this is the first stage of cooking. We have the oven preheated to 325 degrees, and we're gonna roast to an hour and a quarter And we're only gonna cook it until it's 130 degrees - All right, I still don't see gravy. - Yes, well, I have a sauce pan heating with two teaspoons of extra So when that starts to shimmer, I'm going to add our turkey backs. Just pat the turkey backs dry. You know, a lot of Don't throw it away. There's a ton of flavor, that's gonna render and give us some fat. And there's also some meat around the ribs that is gonna give us a So I'm gonna let this cook for and what I'm looking that I put face down, I want that skin to starting to throw off some of its fats. - All right. - Building flavor. - Yes, absolutely. I'm gonna go wash my hands. Okay, it's been about six minutes or so. I'm gonna show you what - Ah, ha ha ha. So that skin has really rendered. Now as it renders, it browns. Again, it's adding flavor. They're both gorgeous. So now, the next step is we're gonna and one carrot. And also one stock of - Okay. So we're gonna let this I'm gonna stir it occasionally, and what we're looking and to start to get brown. So as you can see, the and you can see that there's a little I'm gonna add five cups of water. I want the flavors of the turkey and the vegetables to really to create the base for our gravy. - All right. - Okay, I'm gonna add and one bay leaf. I'm gonna bring this up to a boil, and once it comes up to a boil, I'm gonna reduce the and just gonna let it for all those flavors to - Fantastic. - Hey there, fellow fans of cooking. Wanna stay in the know? - Visit AmericasTestKitchen.com for our free Notes from the - Get exclusive tips, seasonal recipes, product reviews, and more delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free at - Oooh. - Yeah. It's been about an hour, Bridget, and now we're just gonna but in the meantime, can you please turn the oven - You got it. - Thank you. This is always a good safety tool, just so I don't burn myself. It's a reminder. So let's just check the temperature. We're looking for 130 degrees and it's 130. - 130. And as you can see, the but this is just the Let's go over to our broth. So this has been simmering Now I'm just gonna strain this and we should have about four cups. - Mmm. - Just holding that turkey - Plop. - Go plop and splash me. We're looking for about four cups, and we're right there, Bridget. - All right. - Okay, so our oven is ready, and this is stage two of cooking. So now we're gonna finish this at an oven temperature of 500 degrees, higher temperature and what that's gonna do and make it beautifully golden brown, and it's gonna finish to 160 degrees. - Okay. - All right. - Oooh. if I do say so myself. - That is stunning. - Isn't that great? Look at how beautiful the skin is. - Yes. - It's that 500 degree higher temperature really crisped up the skin. You can just tell and its I'm gonna temp it, take the temperature, and this should be 160 We nailed it. We're gonna let him rest - Okay. - Getting back to the pan. Look at all that turkey fat. - Gorgeous. We wanna capture that. So we want about a quarter of a cup, but I'm just gonna pour all of that off. If we didn't have a quarter cup, you can just top it off with a little bit of vegetable oil. So I'm gonna add this back to the pan. We're gonna start making our - Yes. - So I'm gonna turn this to medium heat. I'm gonna add a quarter cup of flour, and I'm just gonna stir So what I'm doing is I'm Gonna cook it for about one minute until it's nice and brown. And that's gonna also give our roux and ultimately our gravy more flavor. - Yeah. - So I'm gonna add a (pan sizzling) - Starting to deglaze. - Yes. Now I'm gonna whisk this in, scraping up more of those brown bits, and we're just cooking it just Now I'm gonna take our turkey and I'm just gonna add this slowly. I always start off slow. - Otherwise you get big lumps. - Yeah, we don't like a lumpy gravy. - No. I'm a little bit afraid of you. This gravy had better - I actually have a low just as long as it's free. - And a lot of it? - And a lot of it. - Oh, today's your lucky day, Bridget. - I like to serve my (chuckling) - As you can see, I'm still scraping down that I can find. So now we're gonna and I'm gonna cut the heat back so it simmers for about 20 minutes, and it's gonna reduce and I'm gonna be stirring it occasionally, just to make sure that it doesn't stick. - All right. - It's gonna get nice and thick. - I'm on gravy watch. - All right, Bridget. This has simmered for about 20 minutes. As you can see, it's gotten nice and thick and it's reduced. So now I just wanna taste it, make sure that it's seasoned nicely. Mmm. - Beautiful. I almost turned into a turkey there. - You did the wing. I'm gonna say it's perfectly seasoned. So now I'm just gonna pour and then we're gonna Here's our gorgeous turkey, and it's rested for about 30 minutes. And again, this is a little bit easier than carving a whole turkey, right? So we're just removing And can you hear that skin? - Yes. - That's a great sign. That's exactly what we want. The breast bone is so I'm just kind of cutting putting my knife through I just kind of use the And one of the biggest mistakes is not getting enough So again, I'm using my boning knife, using the top tip of it, and I'm just making a kind of against that rib cage. - That little keel bone there. - Yes, it's as easy as that. - Really following the bone structure. - Really following the bone, yep and I'm holding it. Because it rested, it's Okay, so we're ready to carve. So now I'm just slicing Look at those juices. There's some on the board, but I know that there's You can just see it. - It's gorgeous, gorgeous. Okay, the time has come, Bridget. You ready? - I'm so ready. - Okay, excellent. Oh my gosh, you can tell it's just juicy as I lift it up and it just drapes. That just tells to me how much moisture is And now the moment you - Yes. - Gravy. - Gravy. - All right, I'm not going I'm gonna pour it around it, okay? - Save that crisp skin. - I wanna save the crisp skin. - Mmm. - I hope you're hungry. The true test. - It really is. And I even separated it from the skin. - Mm hmm? - Excellent. - That is really, really good. - Nicely seasoned throughout. - That's turkey breast, right? - That's turkey breast, yes, yes. - It's not some sort of trick? - Nope, nope. - Mmm. - Mmm, so often people use the gravy to save the dry turkey breast, but in this case, the and the gravy is just shining. - This is top 10 turkey recipes. - Awesome, Bridgette. - I'm so glad you like it. - Well, you're gonna want this Thanksgiving by just making a roast turkey breast. And to do that, remove the backbone salt the meat, and then Roast the turkey in a skillet and use a quick broth to and a lot of gravy. From America's Test Kitchen, roast whole turkey breast with gravy and gravy. - And more gravy. - And more gravy. - We hope you enjoyed this video as much as we enjoyed making it. - Don't forget to hit that like button and subscribe to our channel. - And if you're ready to take your cooking to the next level, head over to AmericasTestKitchen.com and get a free all - While you're there, you can sign up for our free email newsletters and download our app. - With unlimited access to over 14,000 of our Test Kitchen recipes and 8,000 product reviews, you'll have everything you - So I ask, what are you waiting for? - Let's make something great together.