- Unless you've done nothing binge watch every show on that immigration, refugees, have become a pretty hot topic in the U.S and around the world. As in most countries, Israel has its own general immigration policies but it also provides a unique protection that's specific for Jews across the globe. This is called the Law of Return. This law grants legal from anywhere to settle in Israel and has established modern and a haven for the But isn't that, you know, kind of discriminatory? I mean why should there be such a law? And if it's specific to Jews, then well, who's a Jew and how exactly should Jewishness be determined? (upbeat music) These questions aren't new. They were asked by Israel's But before we get into all of that, we'll need to start by in which this Law of Return first emerged. For nearly two millennia of the state of Israel, Jewish populations scattered across the world. Lived in a continual and were often subjected Jews effectively became This is the world in which for an independent homeland, existed only in their imagination through hope and prayer as practice and identity. Now by the mid 19th century, or 40% percent of the lived in Tsarist Russia, to such severe persecution, emigrated to other countries over a period of just a few decades. Fleeing persecution and inspired by Zionism many of these Jewish refugees made their way to the land of Israel. Those long held hopes and finally began to materialize. But not quite yet. And by the time Nazism in the 1930s and the danger to its Jews becoming increasingly clear, the Jews' need for a place of To address this crisis, the Evian conference 32 countries assembled to plan for the growing seeking to flee Germany. But the effort failed 'cause only one country was willing to significantly increase it's immigration of Jewish refugees. The remaining 31, including the U.S. who had called for the conference, effectively resolved to leave the vast majority of the Jews to Then just a few months the British parliament which placed severe restrictions into British controlled Palestine. A quota of 15,000 Jews each year was set, and continued throughout the war. So the result of both the Evian conference and the White Paper, was the deaths of possibly hundreds of thousands, fled from the increasing danger in Europe. It was against this bleak of the second world war, were systematically of the state of Israel, a policy of protection for This policy came to be and granted a fundamental who sought to enter and live Essentially it was created as designed to provide a refuge for Jews. And even during the first few years, it was being debated and drafted, it was already being put to use. During this time, approximately emigrated to Israel, doubling Many of them were holocaust survivors who had been abandoned by during the war. But the principle of The Law of Return, was also saving Jews, not only in Europe but across the Middle Operation Magic Carpet, of nearly 50,000 Yemenite Jews. They were fleeing famine, general hostility and towards Jews in most Muslim nations, following Israel's independence. And so, over a period of about one year, more than 85% of Yemen's was airlifted out of And this trend would continue as Jews fled other Muslim countries over the following Jewish immigrants from these under The Law of Return. By the end of the 50s, the from Europe and the Middle of the new state. It's clear why this law necessary to establish emerging democracy. The drafters of the new took care to ensure that non-discriminatory, not an easy task. So, how did they pull this off? Well this right of by The Law of Return, was not by itself, also a right of automatic citizenship. The Law of Return would but citizenship was to be the citizenship law which to other groups as well. Passed in 1952, this citizenship law, provided several paths to citizenship. One would be through The Law of Return which applied to any Jews who have or would return in the future. Another path would be through residence. Arabs, Christians, Druze, and others who were already living of its establishment would pretty much automatically. The third path to citizenship to more recent and future through a process of naturalization, similar to many other countries. And the fourth and probably easiest path would be birth to an Israeli citizen. But back to the Jews who Didn't that law automatically Why did they need this Well actually The Law of Return itself, doesn't really grant any citizenship. It provides asylum and is of determining citizenship. Now this may seem like it's but this is actually a very Even if the citizenship law was amended and did away with the path it wouldn't actually affect and the automatic asylum that it provides. Bottom line, these laws and nuanced and neither of nor The Law of Return is set in stone. In fact, both laws may be vote in Israel's Knesset. And they have been. Many, many times. And this brings us to if the law of return is to then who is a Jew? Jews have identified in multiple ways. So what does The Law of Return consider to be the deciding factor? Well when The Law of it actually didn't provide any clarity, about who would be considered a Jew. It simply relied on the who defined a Jew as, any and who has not embraced Put it in another way, Israel But this makes for a and it was tested in several court cases during the first two decades of the state. As a result, an amendment was passed in 1970 which a legislative definition of who is a Jew. The amendment defined a Jew as a person who was born of a Jewish converted to Judaism of another religion. In other words, a narrower But wrap your head around this. Even though the new definition of a Jew was narrowed, the amended of asylum beyond this definition to anyone who had at least one Jewish grandparent or who is married to someone with at least one Jewish grandparent. Effectively this meant considered a Jew under the new definition have the right to enter but so could their spouses, and the spouses of their Regardless of their religion. Controversially this Nuremberg laws of Nazi Germany. Now it's pretty clear, why with using Nazi policy to But actually the Nuremberg to answer the narrower but only to determine the broader question of who would be protected The idea being that anyone to persecution, under such heinous laws, should also be able to from those laws. By the mid 1980s and early 1990s, this amended definition would fleeing persecution and famine. Also in the 90s, Israel massive immigration by Jews from the former Soviet Union. From 1990 to 1999, over arrived in Israel. A massive number for let alone a small country like Israel. But the most challenging questions for The Law of Return, As political tensions continue concerning issues of ethnic Israel will continue to How do you remain both a liberal democracy and a Jewish state? Well much of Israel's history demonstrates that these two ideals don't The complexities of remain an ongoing and Thanks for watching. See you guys next week. (upbeat music)