Today we ride the most scenic train route in the world, unveiling the beautiful Alpine wonders of mountains, lakes and snow! Please enjoy the journey! Merry Christmas Today we are at the very scenic canals of Milan. On this trip, we ride the &quot;Most Scenic&quot; Train in the World, the Bernina Express. A magical train ride through the Winter Swiss Alps! This is the route for the journey! A fee of 33CHF/$40 (one-way) for the 2+ hour trip Next day. We are here in Milan central station We'd like to ride the train from here but The Bernina Express doesn't depart from Tokyo but from a small town in northern Italy We head north to Tirano where our Tirano 7:20 The ride takes 2:30 hours At first I thought it was Torino but it isn't Tirano My train features some nice Italian art Good Bye Milan We've got some nice looking mountains already wowza very italian mamamia pizzaria 11:00 am It's the southern starting We have arrived in Tirano Tirano is a small town in northern This small station is where Tirano station. We head to St.Moritz a little town The trip will take about 2.5 engineering marvel that is the bernina pass The famous bernina express train runs only But since it will be quite I will be riding the regular train (runs every hour) Both trains take the same scenic route, meaning you I wont be missing anything that the This is the train we are going There are 4 types of cars The first-class cars (regular seat/panorama) The second-class car (regular seat/panorama) I'm not sure if people confuse the first-class car with the panorama car; they are not the same. The panorama dome and the regular cars I will be riding the regular cars for this ride This is the regular car A 2 - 2 configuration There's a little table on the window side With a power outlet! It opens Hip hip hooray And this is the panorama car Nice big window, but the window doesn't open! hard to take pictures! There's literally 2 people on this car How is this train not more popular? 2 people What Did everyone get lost on the way to Milan!? Rest in Pepperoni's to my fellow tourists Arrive Deric The train departs As punctual as possible A scenic route awaits After leaving Tirano, the train begins passing through picturesque Italian countryside. Climbing slowly but steadily Crossing the border So apparently I crossed the Italian border We have officially made it to Swiss Yay Swiss cheese The fact that I crossed a border without We are steadily ascending in altitude What in the Harry Potter is that Wait a momento I didn't realize this place would come so soon the famous Brusio Circular Viaduct One of the highlights of the journey an engineering marvel where the train loops Sugoi Big pizza circle very italian The pizza ends. now spaghetti By the way We are heading that way (presumably) Breaking news The floor carpeted with a blanket of snow We continue with this steep slope Look at that Cradled by the Swiss mountain A beautiful green lake Calming A family of 4 got off here Wonder what they could be up to wow! so clear! glacier water! wow! A car! We head into the mountains This was one of the hardest parts for the engineer. This steep gradient is one of the is considered an engineering marvel A very steep incline of 7 degrees This feat is like some guy casually walk up a wall The reason for the train being red could totally New train lore We get carried away with the view but the train track itself is one of the most mesmerizing aspects of the journey, weaving through landscapes and connecting Making snake turns right and left Mountains Mountains everywhere There are news that goat like Let's see if we can find some goats Holy cow Look at this breathtaking view Every single frame is like a post card I should start a post card company We have passed through the steep hills And now stop at a station Altitude: 1,703km (5,587 feet). my eardrums are starting to crack Never mind we still have more The snow is becoming a lot more prominent This is Alp Grum Station Alp Grum is a significant stop, located Passengers can enjoy breathtaking views of the Palu Glacier. I honestly cannot see the glacier. Maybe it's hard to see this time of the year Lago Bianco It truly does look white Look at this lake It's frozen Look at that design To my left is supposedly the And features one of the largest Highest point on this trip, the Ospizio Bernina (2253m/7400ft) Gucci It's getting a bit too cold for my hands But apart from that (hands) the train keeps me warm. It's actually not that cold The conductor is now sitting infront of me? who? Pontresina Before reaching St. Moritz, a gateway to numerous hiking I don't see anyone skiing as of yet though BUT I DO SEE FOOTPRINTS GOATS It looks like we have arrived Finally made it If I had to be honest It felt much shorter than a 2 and a half hour ride Thank you train for the ride Ok what do I do now What do I do I need the food From the looks of it, this seems I'm scared for my lunch price You know things are going to be expensive casear salad ($32!?!?!) carbonara ($28???) Let's find a different restaurant... There aren't too many restaurants Hmmm From my research This place seems good Let's give it a try And the prices are... Hmm These prices do not seem friendly Ahahaha This isn't good Fish and chips ($29) wth is higly I'm going to go bankrupt Cup of water for $3.5! 100% regional water. what does that even mean My order is here Fries, boiled vegetables and a big juicy sausage with sauce (+$2.5 (bruh)) This glass of water was $3 Help me Water $3 I'm dead I ordered the waitresses recommended meal It's suppose to be like a traditional Swiss meal The sausage ... ... ... ... ... ... I mean It's alright $30. ... A sausage $30 for a sausage... How do people afford this stuff Why is this broccoli purple ... That's like 15 Bowls of gyudon ... I'm dead Ladies and gentlemen, once again, It's a sausage Beautiful, succulent, sausage. Wonderful news Thanks for the food The total came to be $35. SAUSAGE I'm now looking for some dessert wowza. Looking delicious Dont have anything on my way Also got this hot chocolate $6 Switzerland is going to make me go bankrupt. Let's get out of here quick This will be my ride home Back to Tirano We are going to be riding the same train back but this time it looks like there is a panorama car attached Heading to my normal car Good bye expensive sausage town There isn't a power outlet Looks like I got lucky on my way here I don't know but this hot chocolate is good not THAT good but I want to think it is. Let's try this Berliner What the heck is this $4 It's like a cream filled pastry Where is the cream There you are Next is the Himbeertotre Open the sesame seed It's suppose to be a strawberry cake looks like the train Looks great I didn't realize at the time of purchase. But there's like a layer of jello Hmmm The clouds have cleared up so Nice lakes This is the bernina express heading But by the time it arrives in st.moritz It will be dark Glad I took the earlier train Slowly makes my way back Didn't notice how green it was Beautiful lake This viaduct represents the pizza time once again thank you pizza Back in Italy We have made it safely back to Italy Tirano station Thanks for watching. Have a happy holiday!