- If you've previously used in Facebook Ads Manager, you may have noticed that You may have also realized that some of your cold traffic audiences are no longer performing in Or you might just be looking to target a cold audience Instagram ads, or other In this video, I'm gonna walk you through all of the considerations when creating these new and also the specific tactical steps of how to set them up. If you stick around to the end, I'm gonna show you how you about your testing, how to to make sure that we can still get the most bang for our buck, we can find those winning audiences and we can continue to use these (mysterious music) With the changes that have there are certain audiences going to perform the way they used to. Many of these are going to and behavioral audiences. We've really got to that we think about our audiences. The first thing I'd ask you to think about is what industry are you in? Who is the typical consumer for this type of product and service? Most of the time, you will be able to find really solid demographic data on gender, on age, on location. The next thing you want to consider is is this a product or service that people have a long-term need for, or is this a quick immediate The next thing I would ask that my audience may have that would be tracked on the platform? We know that billions of They're using Instagram, they're using other platforms And that activity is still being tracked. Things that they're posting about, things on their profile, things that they're commenting. All of those things are to compile what their interests are, what their demographics are and the types of products and services they may be interested in. This is easier for some than others. So for example, if I am I sell makeup, there are that discuss them. That gives Facebook firsthand data on what someone is interested in. Now let's look at another example. If I'm selling socks, how often are people really They may love socks, but they we're engaging with pages related to that. So if you are in an industry that has really solid firsthand data, those audiences may If you are in one of those this is gonna be really, really, The first thing we're gonna do is log into Facebook Business Manager, and we're gonna navigate to Audiences tab. We're gonna create some more broad single interest-based audiences. If you took those initial at the beginning of this video, you know this is a very common interest that purchasers of your are going to have. So I'm gonna go ahead and We're gonna be looking for Select people living in this location. The next option is gonna be, what location are you What I want you to think about is the largest potential audience size. So you may think that 10 is the only pool of customers you have, but let's expand that a little bit. Go 25 miles, maybe more. You might think that certain states are going to primarily be your audience, but let's go the entire United States. So we want to make this so we have more people in these audiences and more opportunity to find for your cold traffic. So I'm gonna type in United and for age and gender, I'm The example that I'm using This belt company sells patterned belts. They also have other patterns that are great for people who or maybe you're into horses. People who like to dress up and have a little bit of fashion flare. So that is their primary audience. So we're seeing heavier we're also seeing a much of people about 30 to 60. So this will be my first of four. I'm going to select age 28 to age 40. We're just gonna go For Detailed Targeting, this is where I'd be able to select a lot of different options. Sometimes people are selecting hundreds of different interests and putting them in a single audience. That is not what we want to do here. If any given audience is winning, we really want to know why it's winning. Is it because of that one interest? Is it because of the age range? Is it because of the gender? So in this one specifically, I am just going to type It's not the focus of what they sell, they're a belt company, but they sell products to and college basketball. Those are the specific interests This will be called females and hit Create Saved Audience. And I'm gonna click the little checkbox next to that audience that I just created. And then I'm going to select Edit. It's going to bring up that we just set up, but now we're going to be I'm gonna change the age range. So I'm gonna set this from 41 to 65, and I'm going to create When you do that, it's with the audience name, and we simply want to edit this name to reflect that change we've just made. Then I'm gonna hit Save. The next step is to I'm going to take that click at it, I'm gonna leave all the So in this case, I'm gonna type in golf. Save As New, change the name. Instead of the word college I'm simply going to change it to say Golf. And we'll repeat that once more, changing the golf So now we have four saved audiences. The first custom audience is based off of your paying customers. Let's go ahead and click on at the top left, and we are going to We then select Customer List. The more data that you have in the file you're gonna upload, will give you a higher likelihood of Facebook matching those users with a Facebook or Instagram profile. They then can see all of these based on the other data they have, which will make it much easier who look similar to their or those other attributes It now gives you a couple There is a button to import so if you have MailChimp, this could be a very easy option for you. You can download a file template, but ultimately, as long as and has headers at the top with the information in separate columns, you should be able to upload So I'm just gonna click the It's now gonna ask you if That's actually gonna tell Facebook who are the customers that Who are your best customers? They're actually gonna seek out more of those type of people. I do not have that data in this file, so I'm gonna click No. We now have the opportunity to simply drag and drop our list, and I'm just going to name this accurately so I know which audience The first thing you want to do is confirm that those mapped values were Then I have Action Needed. So I've got a contact ID. That doesn't necessarily I do have first name, which I've got last name, which I have a business name, but so I will not map that. And then I have several other things that are specific to my business. So right now I only have That is enough to create this audience. So I'm gonna go ahead and and it's gonna upload this list for me. And just like that, it's and is giving me the option to create a lookalike audience. I'll go ahead and click that button, and now I'm simply going to So we're just gonna do United States. And then below that, it We have a zero to 1%. A 1% is going to be the to this list. So we're gonna go ahead And now we're going to create to use in this campaign. Ideally, this second audience would be another customer list audience. And what you would select is one step down from paying customers, whatever For me, it would be scheduled calls. For an e-commerce business, it could be add to cart But let's say you don't You might be just getting started. What's the other alternative for you? So I would say that website is usually gonna be the best quality. However, if you've built an you might consider that as an alternative. So we're simply looking who you believe to be the most interested in your product and service, or the most engaged with you in general. That's going to help Facebook create this more qualified lookalike. So, because we already went through the customer list lookalike steps, we're simply going to select And then we are going to select our pixel. I'm gonna go ahead and select So it's asking me for the percentile. I want 5%. Now I have retention. How long of a time period are we looking? 180 days is the maximum that you can use for website audiences. So we're gonna call this and click Create Audience. Just as it did last time, it's now prompting us right away to select Create a Lookalike Audience. I'm also going to start I'm also going to select again, the region or the country in which I'm gonna be looking Now that we've created our two I'm gonna show you one of lookalike audience that you can create for your two additional So I'm gonna go back in Custom Audience. I'll select my Customer List. We're gonna go back through that we originally did. You should arrive back at the screen where we're selecting our location and our percentage for This time, instead of that 1% we're actually going to move that to 2%. We're going to repeat that same exact step for each of our lookalike So what that's going to look is a 1% lookalike audience, a zero to 3% lookalike and Once we've got that set up, we're gonna create what we call a super lookalike audience. And that's where I'm gonna into one single audience. So I'm gonna click Create Audience. This is a Saved Audience, and we are gonna call it I'm now going to select people living in this location again, and the United States. And then I'm going to and when I click on that, Lookalike Audience. I'm now going to select all for the same source, which in this case would We're just gonna leave the age as it is. We'll leave it for males and females. And we're gonna click We're then gonna repeat that for that second lookalike So you're going to end up Your 1% lookalike from your customer list, your 1% lookalike from another list, or maybe another source, a super lookalike for your customer list and a super lookalike for Then you're gonna have four variations of your cold, broad interest-based or demographic-based targeting. We've now got eight that we are going to be Let's go ahead, dive in, I'm gonna go ahead and and this is going to be I'm gonna give it a name, and then I'm gonna click Continue. It's going to bring me to The first thing that I'm gonna do is make sure that I have turned on. I want my budget to be as high because I've got eight different audiences that I'm testing here. So we want to make sure gets enough potential budget to succeed. So I'm gonna select $500 per day for this specific campaign. We are then gonna go to We're gonna select our pixel and our event that we're Then under the Budget we need to select a daily minimum budget. So in order to do that, we're gonna have to click Then we'll click Edit and We want to select a daily minimum, because with this type of campaign, the budget is set at the campaign level, $500 a day in this example. That $500 is gonna be split between these eight different ad sets. Facebook's deciding Some ad sets could get $100 a day. Some could get $5 a day. We want to make sure that so I'm gonna set a $25 a day minimum, and then I'm gonna go ahead We've already created it, so I'm gonna select it from that dropdown. I am gonna start with Females 28-40 Golf. Once I've done that, I am going to publish that. I'm gonna hit Duplicate. And then I'm simply going to to reflect the new This is gonna be Females 41-65 with the golf interest. And then I'm gonna scroll down and simply select that audience. I'm then gonna repeat that exact same step two more times. So just to recap, we have one CBO campaign set at $500 a day. You're gonna have eight total ad sets with eight different audiences, and they're all going to have a $25 minimum daily budget set. So we have four interest-based audiences. We have four lookalike-based audiences that were created off of your most qualified leads or customers. If you use this campaign and let it run for five to seven days, trust me, you will be shocked to see the others, and that will become the basis for your new cold traffic If you want to learn more your Facebook ads for and more revenue, check out or click on the video on the screen that I'm sure you're gonna love.