From old-fashioned glazed to gourmet eats, here are each state's favorite doughnuts. The Heavenly Donut Co. in Birmingham has a large variety of doughnuts, but one of the favorites People wait in long lines from Jason's Donuts in Fairbanks. BoSa Donuts is a locally owned chain with over 20 locations in Arizona. With over 50 doughnut options, customers have a hard There's always a line in North Little Rock. Its doughnuts are sweet, Popular flavors are the Primo's Donuts makes but is known for its buttermilk bar. It's glazed while hot and served fresh. You've gotta stop by Amy's for its sweet and savory doughnuts. It specializes in fun doughnuts, such as the Cookie Monster and Elvis. Neil's Donuts is a no-frills bakery that makes melt-in-your-mouth doughnuts. One of its showstoppers is Duck Donuts is known for its customizable and made-to-order doughnuts. You can build your own doughnut by choosing the icing, Its Newark location is popular among University of Delaware students. The Salty Donut makes mouthwatering and delicious artisan doughnuts. The most famous flavors are the croughnut and the white chocolate tres leches. Sublime Doughnuts prides itself on using fresh ingredients and fun, whimsical recipes. It has a secret-menu chicken and its most popular doughnut is the fresh strawberries and cream. Kamehameha Bakery specializes in poi-glazed doughnuts and malasadas. Malasadas are Portuguese doughnuts that have become a Hawaiian staple. The purple color comes from poi, which is made from the Guru Donuts is a local favorite in Boise. It has constantly changing like Peanut Butter Jelly The fan favorite at Firecakes Donuts is the doughnut ice cream sandwich, but the must-have is the Two large yeast doughnuts then loaded with rainbow sprinkles. It has limited availability, so preordering is recommended. Long's Bakery is an Its best seller is the Mahalo's Coffee makes mini doughnuts that are delicious and fun to eat. The most popular doughnut mini doughnuts are glazed and dusted with cinnamon sugar. Hana's Donuts has the best assortment of doughnuts in Kansas City. You can't go wrong with the Boston cream and the Oreo doughnuts. People love Nord's Bakery and The maple bacon doughnut is so popular it often sells out fast. While not necessarily a doughnut, locals and tourists love And the most famous place to get them is at Cafe du Monde in the French Quarter. In fact, it's the only food on the menu. The Holy Donut adds a special Maine potatoes. The riced potatoes add a rich texture you can't find anywhere else. The crowd-pleasers are and the vegan pomegranate. Krumpe's Do-Nuts hits the especially since its shop hours are from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. But the doughnuts are always made fresh, and they're light and fluffy Union Square Donuts is a trendy spot for locals and tourists in Somerville. Doughnut flavors change regularly, so you'll never get bored. In the fall, the best seller is the pumpkin spice latte glazed. Paczki is a traditional popular in Michigan due to And one of the best places to get one is New Palace Bakery. Bogart's Doughnut Co. is known for its brioche doughnuts and soft serve. Get the Nutella-filled doughnut Tatonut Donut Shop in Ocean Springs uses potato flour to make its doughnuts lighter and fluffier. The standout is the Persian, which is like a cinnamon The first Lamar's Donut opened in Kansas City, Missouri, in 1960. Since then, it's expanded With more than 70 rotating it's impossible to pick Granny's Gourmet Donuts is but people drive from all Just remember to bring If you're looking for fresh and delicious doughnuts in Omaha, look no further than Olsen Bake Shop. The maple-glazed, cream-filled doughnut and glazed croissants are classics. Pinkbox Doughnuts offers like the Pooh Doughnut. Don't worry, it's chocolate cake topped with chocolate mousse It also has a pink version. Donut Love in North Hampton is a family-owned doughnut shop that makes its potato-based If you've got a sweet tooth, you'll love Broad Street Dough Co. Its doughnuts are hand But the crowd-pleaser a blue doughnut dipped in vanilla and topped with crushed chocolate, and vanilla drizzle. Rebel Donut is a woman-owned doughnut shop with two locations in Albuquerque. All of its doughnuts are hand cut, hand dipped, and hand decorated. Its most popular doughnut which was specially created for an actor from &quot;Breaking Bad,&quot; which was filmed in Albuquerque. Alimama makes the best mochi The texture is wonderfully The most popular flavors are and cereal mochi doughnut. While Krispy Kreme was we chose Hole Doughnuts for its perfectly imperfect doughnuts. They're made from the which results in the best doughnut ever. Sandy's Donuts makes over 75 but its most popular while the most unique ones are the Unicorn and the Death by Chocolate Doughnut. Holtman's has some of the It makes hundreds of Polar Donuts offers friendly service and first-class doughnuts. Its customers love its cereal-covered doughnuts and fritters. Blue Star Donuts uses a special homemade French brioche recipe to Its doughnuts, glazes, and fillings are made fresh throughout the day, making it a must-visit in Oregon. Beiler's Bakery in Philadelphia makes 60 different types of doughnuts and up to 6,000 doughnuts a day. Another fan favorite is You can find the best artisan doughnuts in Providence at PVDonuts. It offers extravagant and as well as classics like crullers, and the most popular doughnut Glazed Gourmet Doughnuts in Charleston offers unique and fun flavors like banana pudding and Funfetti, which go perfectly with a cup of coffee. Its most popular doughnut which has a homemade berry with a lavender-infused glaze. Jerry's Cakes and Donuts is that serves mouthwatering sour cream cake doughnuts and fritters. Gibson's Donuts is open 24/7, so regulars can get doughnuts for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. Round Rock Donuts is world-known for its yellow-colored glazed doughnuts. But the accolades have to which is the size of 12 regular doughnuts. It's true when they say Fresh Donuts &amp; Deli is a mom-and-pop shop that has perfected its classics. The glazed yeast doughnut is and other must-haves are the apple fritter and maple bar. Cider and cider doughnuts are staples at Cold Hollow Cider Mill. But the specialty is the Dreamee, a maple creemee between a cider doughnut. Sugar Shack Donuts &amp; Coffee has a bunch of yeast and cake varieties that can fulfill your sweet-tooth cravings. Don't miss out on Top It has classic, fancy, that all doughnut lovers can appreciate. At Peace, Love and Little Donuts, the doughnuts are made with your choice of icing and toppings. Adults and kids alike love the fun atmosphere and novelty doughnuts. Greenbush Bakery makes some out-of-this-world old-fashioneds. The showstopper is the They're about the size of a dinner plate and weigh about a pound. Cowboy Donuts offers a variety of classic doughnuts and pastries. The doughnuts with sprinkles are the best. While they aren't technically states, here are the best doughnuts in Washington, DC, and Puerto Rico. A favorite at Astro is the creme brulee doughnut, which is blow-torched to Kudough's Donuts &amp; Coffee Bar makes one-of-a-kind, creative What food do you think Let us know in the comments.