Vsauce! Kevin here, with a homemade deck of 52 meme fair... but actually allows you to win most How? BECAUSE. There's a hidden trick in a simple algorithm favorite even though it appears that both to win. Well, that's not very fair. What is fair? We can consider a coin to be "fair" because you flip it, heads or tails, and each of those Although... it could land on its edge... in that an American nickel, which has a flat, land on its edge about 1 in every 6,000 tosses. But for the most part, since the first electrum in 7th century BC, they've been pretty fair. As are playing cards, like meme legends. When you pull a card, you get a red or a black Crying Carson. It's perfectly binary, and there's no It's either red or it's black. It's 50% like a snap from Thanos. Given that, is it possible coin-flipping code and take advantage of a secret non-transitive property within this Yes. Welcome to the Humble-Nishiyama Randomness Walter Penney debuted a simple coin-flipping of Recreational Mathematics, and then Steve by using playing cards. The first player chooses a sequence of three like red, black, red. And then the second player chooses their own Like black, black, red. And then we just flip our red and black meme comes up first. So in this example, thanks to Guy Fieri, player one chose red, black, red. Here's a little bit of a nitpick. Because we're not replacing the red and won't be exactly 50/50 on every draw -- because odds of the opposite color coming next is from perfectly fair, and as we play it will So given that each turn of the card has a and given that the likelihood of each sequence both players have an equal chance of winning be 50/50, too, right? Wrong -- and to demonstrate why I've invited Where are you best friend? Keanu Reeves. Ah, alright. Keanu, you're a little tall. Hold on. How's this? Okay, Keanu will be player 1. There are only 8 possible sequences that Keanu BBR, and BBB. No matter what Keanu chooses, the probability other options. For player 1, there really is no bad choice, So let's say Keanu chooses BRB. Great choice there, Keanu. Now that I know your sequence, I'm going Okay, now we'll just draw some cards and see Red, Tommy Wiseau. Some red Flex Seal action. So far nobody has an advantage. Black, where are you fingers? Uh oh. Sad, sad Keanu. You should be sad once you realize that now Because of having these two black cards in in a row, eventually I will get a red and Ermergerd. Ah hah. There it is. Minecraft Steve had sealed the victory for Sorry, my most excellent dude. But I win. Because regardless of what player one chooses, picks. As player 2, the method here is very easy at the front of the line, so when Keanu picked put that in the front of my sequence. So I just dropped the last letter and my sequence I'll show you another example. If Keanu had chosen red, red, red. Then I would've just changed that middle R drop the last R, and my sequence would be Just that little trick allows me to have an 7.5 to 1. Which means in the worst possible scenario And in the best, it's nearly 8 out of 9. Look, I'll write out all the choice options As Player 2, when we apply the algorithm we're cycle of outcomes that Player 1 doesn't The best Player 1 can do is choose an option How is this possible? How can I take something so seemingly fair it so strongly in my favor? The key is in recognizing that this game is So there ya go.The end. Wait... What is transitive? Think of it this way: you've got A, B, and beats C. Because if A beats B and B beats is transitive. So like if you and your Keanu had transitive than Tacos, and you'd rather have Tacos You'd also rather have Pizza than Dog Food. Simple. If you and Keanu somehow preferred Dog Food to Pizza, then all of a become non-transitive. In a non-transitive game, there is no best no super-powered A. Instead, there's a loop In rock paper scissors, rock -- which we'll B. B is better than A. But A beats scissors, But B loses to C, so C is better than B, and A. Scissors C loses to rock A and beats paper that goes on forever, with no one choice being That's non-transitive. Since we're in the flow chart mood here's winning moves in the Humble-Nishiyama Randomness So if you follow the arrows you can see that And so forth. With the odds added, you can clearly see how In the Humble-Nishiyama Randomness variation of card colors player one has chosen first, of the non-transitive loop and make a choice By recognizing that the game is non-transitive, a paradoxical loophole that nearly guarantees To everyone who doesn't it just kinda looks like we're extremely lucky. And why does all of this matter? Because bacteria play rock paper scissors Benjamin Kirkup and Margaret Riley found that bacteria compete with one way. They found that in mice intestines, E. coli three strains basically played a game of rock Penney's Game and its variations illustrate how even a scenario that seems like unmistakably simple, should never be There's always room to develop, strategize, and imagination required to understanding And that truly is...breathtaking. And as always -- thanks for watching.