Hi, Hillary. Hi. Hi, Ellen. The last time you were saying that, when you were going to let us do That's right, I did say that. Yeah, we didn't get to do it. Well, we didn't get to do it. No, we did not. But there is a different There is. [LAUGHTER] There is a show going on. I'm sure you're watching. But I'll talk to if we can get that done. All right. That's a deal? Yeah, yeah, I want to-- exactly. Because I would like to do Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'd love you to. I would love to do it. This is-- Dancing, too. Keep the dancing, right? [APPLAUSE] More dancing. More dancing. Moore dancing in the happiness and dancing. This is a big week. You're here. The president was just-- Trump was just acquitted by Does that surprise? Did you expect that? Well, I wasn't surprised. Because it's hard to convict and remove somebody. But I was still of the Republicans were willing Romney took. Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney. Yeah. [APPLAUSE] He made an absolutely on the floor of the why he felt the weight of and that he was going to of the articles of impeachment. Look, the evidence There was no doubt was all presented that, done what he was accused of. In fact, he'd done what he was accused of. He just didn't would hold him accountable. So we're now moving on. But I hope that of all political pay attention and say he has to be held accountable. And now, the way to do Yep, yep. [APPLAUSE] And like you said, this is and what's-- I mean, Mitt Romney The fact that he is standing and is a very important thing. Well, it was really important. And it was the first that there has ever been a it was the first time ever. But also, if you actually to what a lot of the other they all said things like, it was inappropriate, he shouldn't have he doesn't do but I'm not going So even the words ended up voting to acquit Because for whatever they were not willing to that Mitt Romney was the Republican nominee got more than 60 million votes. And so his taking with all of the different Republican there's no doubt what the It was to promote his own the interests of our country. It did put our national And everything that So now it's voters who are I have to take and follow Mitt Romney's lead. Yeah, I hope this is going to be I mean, this is the Yes, right, right. I mean, we really-- and now that you have a for the Democrat ready to make a decision yet. I mean, what do you say to these Look, the primary It's very rigorous. It's difficult. Candidates I know that very well, myself. And I say two things. I say, vote for the can actually win in November can govern our country. Because somebody and try to bring our and try to put us on the and restore our democracy, So it's those two factors, Because if you don't And who can best govern in American history. Because it seems to we need somebody who is able to kind of steer this ship of going to an extreme. Yes. Do you have somebody you're Will you even say? No. I am saying the same Please look at the candidates. And clearly, you'll like And then analyze that person's and can that person win? Because remember, it's It's the electoral college. Because I got 3 million more in the electoral college. And so you've got to be very But it's not enough just to win. You want somebody who, is going to try to You know, we have so much to We have so many wonderful that are going on. But we need to I call the future business. We need to be investing That means dealing That means dealing It means making the And these things So you need somebody And I just want everybody Because as you say, we really ever in this next election. And not just listen to what because anyone can say anything. Like in your to say things that you And you could have I mean, the I can't wait for It's really, really We have to take a break. But I'm just so glad And I love this documentary. And people will see so-- what a life you've had. What a life you've had. We'll be back. We're back with Hillary Clinton. So this documentary, which will be on Hulu. I don't know when it comes out. March 6th. March 6th, it's so good. It is a four-part docuseries. You really didn't But you had all this and from your life. And they put a Well, originally, going to be a kind of behind Because we had about that was backstage, on I, mean everything that we had all this footage. And a couple of folks said, how I said, fine. And Hulu ended up a director who I met before I thought she was terrific. And so she came back to me. She looked at all Then she came back to me. She goes, you know, there's And, yes, it's a But it's also a story over the last 50 to 60 years. It's about the women's movement. It's about the American And we'd like to do more than I said, OK, sounds good. I still didn't really have any So I ended up doing 35 And I was amazed the documentary myself at the people that she talked to. And there's a really-- it's probably only personal But there's a woman in the friend since sixth grade. And she had breast cancer. And she'd been fighting And the director, Nanette would you be willing And Betsy said sure. So they interviewed her. And she was very sick And she died shortly after that. So for me, watching and seeing people from my young adulthood, from my campaigns, and working we did, for me, seeing my dear, shortly before we lost I mean, there are things in it I mean, there's a scene that her team, found where I was care. And I was being burned wanted to get quality affordable And people are And I thought, wow, what about how hard it is that actually help people? So there's a lot of really And again, not just but about a lot of our lives. Yeah, no, I mean, it really is. I mean, I was just you were for everything, And over and over again and how hard that must telling you have you have to wear your hair and you don't come off warm. And it's just after attack, which just And they wouldn't They wouldn't attack the way or whatever. It's crazy how But what's amazing, too-- I want to talk about this now. And then we'll take a break. OK. But there was nothing off with Monica Lewinsky. President Clinton talked Because you said, Right. Was that really I mean, it must have been Yeah, it was. Once I agreed to said, well, we're going And I said, OK. And yet, when it actually You know, as I said when I was and I wrote, The that staying in my marriage was I ever made. And so for me, revisiting for my husband also to and then also to be asked, you There's no doubt about it. But you couldn't actually and not cover something because you could read about about. And it's fascinating. Because as you go through who have been my have supported me personally they talked about it. They talked about would be really upset because I And they would go and And a lot of the well, I just can't I don't like her because And they would say, oh, And people would talk. But then pretty well, you know, that That happened to my friend. That happened-- everybody needs to for you and your family. And toward the end of the people who and also worked in my it just was such a Because some of the very I could never support in the next breath, I love Bill Clinton. I said, well, I do, too. But it was a really to go through it again. But I have to say, once hours of the documentary, I hope my willingness to really does help other people. I mean, there are lessons. There are lessons from Because people need to be they make in their own lives. And we should be kinder and who makes the best decisions Absolutely. It's a fascinating documentary. It's fascinating. I mean, really, talk about it, and everything it's eye opening, And we'll take a break. More with Hillary after this. That's a very common concern that somehow a woman president And by the time somebody you've actually been through Usually, you've been Sometimes not. But often, yes. And it really strikes Because most of the criticism-- there-- is because I didn't I wasn't emotional enough. I should have been, I But I thought, you responsible, awesome that I needed to demonstrate I can do it. I'm not going to And now, you know we've emotionally acting in the history of our And I don't hear anybody you know? So we still have a are going to be judged by of the old double standard. Yeah, it really is crazy. We can really see But we're so used to taught to stay quiet or and not yell. And it's a really You're getting some you said about Bernie Sanders. Mm-hm. It must feel good that you Mm-hm. But you want to talk Well, it's from the film, I don't know, year So it wasn't in the But, yeah, I feel like I have about what it's And as I said I think the key calculation But you know, people can about anybody in public life. That's a free country, But I think, as I you've got to be and what you say We need to rebuild trust and in our institutions. And if you promise the moon then that's going to be one can't trust each other. So it's not it's It's not, maybe, good But I think you should mean what you say, and have for how you would get anything So health care, let's take Look, I want quality, affordable And I've been fighting I've been burned in effigy I want to get there. But let's remember We have a current trying to take away If you have a they are in court right now, trying to take that into the Affordable Care Act. So we can have a big what kind of health care we Because I'm on the But let's remember, people will lose what So I just want how high the stakes every candidate and every accountable for what [APPLAUSE] Last question, last asked you to be vice Well, that's not But, no, probably, no. You don't know that's I think I do, yeah. Really? I think I do. Yeah, I think I do. All right. But what if they did? Oh, well, look, it's like me to be Secretary of State. I was shocked. I had no idea he And I turned him down twice. He said, the It's a catastrophe. I've got to focus on that. We've got problems You go focus on that. I said, no, no, I'm You get somebody else. I'm sure there's And at the second time I said not going to do it, he again until you say yes. And so I'll tell you, I And I thought, if wanted to ask him I would have wanted So I never say never. Because I do believe OK, so you will. But it's not going to happen. [APPLAUSE] So you will. Thank you for putting me in This is Hillary's They wrote it, called And it's a fantastic book. And you have been on for women's rights since since you were in college. I thank you for everything that you have done for women. As you say, human rights women's rights are human rights. Thank you for that. I'm not stopping yet. Hillary premieres We'll be right back. Hi, I'm Andy. Ellen asked me to remind you so you can see more like videos of me embarrassing things, like some videos of Ellen and into that sort of thing. Ah! Oh, [BLEEP]! God [BLEEP]!