Why is calcium considered so important? How do we know that we are deficient in doesn't create kidney stones. In this calcium rich vegetarian foods that keep this video very simple and practical. So Hello Friends! Welcome to Fit Tuber. There is mineral for your bones, teeth, heart, muscles and body, these organs will be affected. In fact, and teeth. But when our body remains deficient in it begins to extract calcium out from the bones back pain, pain in the neck, cracking sound easy fractures, teeth cavities and tooth indications that your body needs calcium. But tired after exerting a little, having such white focus for long and having trouble sleeping at calcium from bones. Obviously because it can't that are dependent on calcium. But as a result, many cases problems like arthritis develop. Modern in calcium for a long time are at a higher risk of study showed that women who increased the intake Symptoms significantly improved. deficient in calcium. When we are eating well then problem? Some reasons are very clear. First is Second is that we are eating calcium rich foods This happens when your digestion is weak or you the absorption of calcium from these foods. creates a serious deficiency of calcium damage to the bones. Then modern science coffee or eat a lot of sugary foods, even after When we think of calcium, we think of milk. But after drinking milk you experience gas, bloating calcium from such milk. So let me share with 5 At #5 is Choona latin word calx which means limestone or choona. foods to get rid of calcium deficiency. But how choona should be of edible grade. Not the The same choona is purified which then becomes grocery shop. Its available online as well. I of this video. Just one pinch of this choona written that if one eats just wheat grain sized within 15-20 days calcium deficiency symptoms curd has double benefit as curd is oily in nature the body. Second curd itself is a good source of you can mix, a pinch of choona in dal or sabzi won't be that effective. That's because quickly. This is one of the major reasons gives any positive results. Rather it can cause Next are Sesame seeds g of sesame seeds have 975mg of calcium. Which is sesame seeds are also very rich in magnesium, easy absorption of calcium but also strengthen suffering from knee pains were given 40 grams of they experienced 63% relief in their knee pain as alone. Studies found that it was not just the called sesamin that effectively protects greasing in joints have reduced, they should In winters sesame seeds with jaggery is no because even jaggery is fairly rich in calcium. time tested ways to make bones stronger. But in in moderation. One can dry roast them and salads and curries. Sesame seed cold pressed oil if one massages with sesame oil and then sits VItamin D is vital for the absorption of calcium. sources of vitamin D. Among all dals, kulthi ki dal is #1 in calcium. dal has around 300mg of calcium. Generally people get stones. But guess what! Kulthi dal which is so kidney and gallbladder stones. Kulthi ki dal may it as simple as making any other dal. Its that once made its aroma and flavour is worth all the good in calcium. For example, 100 grams of rajma mg of calcium. Same quantity of black urad dal has 130 mg and Chana dal has around 120 mg of dal and keep rotating other dals along, you will At #2 is Ragi calcium. 100g of rice has only 10mg of calcium. mg of calcium. Which is almost 10 times that of us eat either wheat or rice. No wonder calcium Ragi or Finger millet comes at the top among all health. Ragi is also rich in potassium which is in iron as well which is why it is a medicinal question is how to include ragi in diet? Just See how soft this ragi roti is. And this is made ragi atta in hot boiling water and then knead the out to be super soft. This is in my opinion is the diet. In south India, ragi flour is added to dosa of them. Ragi chilla can also be made. Personally, 2 minutes. In a bowl put 3-4 spoons of ragi flour. this. Then in a pan boil a glass of water. Add 2-3 minutes and then turn the flame off. Once it and lemon juice to it. A potent calcium supplement smoothie recipe that can be consumed as breakfast. Rajgira which is also known as Amaranth or you might have eaten it on a fast. You will be mg of calcium. But why just calcium, Rajgira is all the 9 essential amino acids present in it. But as a complete source of protein than rajgira was found be a clear winner in terms of is 1/10th as compared to that of Quinoa. Since with boiled potatoes to make a chapati which was dessert idea which can be made like normal atte practical way to include rajgira in your diet won't be able to tell if this halwa is made with saag which is also called chaulai are the leaves lal saag in sabzi mandi, do eat it. Other leafy cabbage also have fair amounts of calcium in them. calcium. But if you you are not able to fetch you should try and include choona, sesame seeds, diet. Doing this, you would never have to worry facing any of the symptoms at this moment, they foods are easily available in your nearest grocery them in the description box of this video. feel that your lip colour is dark then first of use a natural lip balm. Mamaearth's tinted lip the promotion of the brand but specifically you will find that lip balm has no petroleum in fact a shea butter, castor oil and coconut cherry and manjishtha. Rich in vitamin e this lip nourishing, after applying it you can instantly of this made safe certified lip balm is priced 21%. Actual price for you will be rs 157. To extract based mamaearth's tinted lip balm If health is important to you then there are know about them, click on this video. My name