- [Narrator] This Sweetgreen Add avocado and it goes to 16.95. But even as it's sold millions Sweetgreen has been losing With over 200 locations, Sweetgreen is a fast casual restaurant trying to broaden the fast food market to include salads made But building the infrastructure and logistics to accomplish - We're not that fancy yet. - They've always sort as a tech company, and so they talked a lot about changing the food system. At one point they said that they wanted to be the McDonald's of better eating. Now they've had to translate some of those lofty and that's challenging. - [Narrator] This is The Sweetgreen brought in hundreds of millions in investment before going In an SEC filing, it reported having about 1.35 million active customers. After its IPO, its stock surged to bring the company's - I'm obsessed. - [Narrator] But its to almost one quarter of that. While individual Sweetgreen the company has struggled to In its last quarterly report, the company announced net losses of more than $27 million. - Hi, what can I get - [Narrator] The company's - There's a few things that We buy really, really high quality food from farmers we know and trust. - [Narrator] Most through distributors, to a wide range of food at low prices. And on top of that, these distributors handle Sweetgreen, on the other hand, Another major cost is labor. Sweetgreen has staff assemble meals and also do a significant - Most restaurants process and ship it out around the country. In order to maximize the we believe food should be made closer to where the guests are eating the food. So we actually make our food every day in our fresh prep kitchen. - [Narrator] Beyond Sweetgreen has also put a - We've built out from just to building our own native delivery, partnering with some marketplaces, and even building catering We've also been able to integrate machine learning and AI a lot of the recommendations as well as things like - Sweetgreen hasn't just it's also built apps for employees to plan out how much food to make at different times of day, so food is fresh but ready - I would say that the founders are trying to be more disciplined now. They've also earned a lot and I think there is certain amount of tech alignment thinking there. But you know, they are and trying to trim expenses where they can and try But again, it's gonna take time. - [Narrator] The question without changing the parts of the business that customers care about. - Our path to profitability in a net income basis The first is continuing This year, we're opening Second is growing sales in existing stores where a huge portion of that increase goes to lifting the profitability The third is being very disciplined on our cost structure to make sure that the incremental profit we're making is flowing through the bottom line. - [Narrator] Sweetgreen in cities like Boston and New York. It's also had some layoffs. - One of the challenges for the business has and the recovery from the pandemic. - [Narrator] In 2019, Sweetgreen stores were concentrated in urban centers, but recently it's been focused on expanding outside cities. - I think we're going to continue to build out in the markets that we currently operate in, and looking to open up one or two new markets a year - [Narrator] Sweetgreen recently hired two former Chipotle executives to help make its menu appeal to a wider range of customers, especially as it expands That's important because centers on having enough profitable restaurants to offset overhead. To make each restaurant more profitable, it's also counting on increasing loyalty and leveraging technology. Sweetgreen has experimented with loyalty programs for years, and its most recent effort is something called Sweetpass. There are a few tiers in the program. In the paid version of Sweetpass, customers pay $10 per month to get $3 off one salad per day. So a customer would have to spend at least $40 on salads per - In general, restaurants these loyalty programs because it makes a lot of sense to try to get someone hooked. You know, it's harder to advertise to a new customer than it is to try to just keep current one coming. But you know, if you're going to eat that every day for lunch, that is gonna add up. - [Narrator] Sweetgreen hasn't shared how many people have signed up for its loyalty program, which Another key strategy moving In 2021, Sweetgreen bought Spyce Food Co, a startup that makes And earlier this year, it opened its first in Naperville, Illinois, where salads are assembled robotically. That enabled it to hire without sacrificing efficiency. Sweetgreen plans to continue rolling this out to new locations, and hopes to retrofit an - Probably the biggest improvement for our customers is Typically, you can order your salad and have it ready in under three minutes, even in a very busy store. - We believe what this will allow us to do is provide a superior economic model. This will significantly impact and improve our unit economics, which will allow us to continue to scale in a profitable way, and over time may even as we think about creating healthy food that is truly accessible for everyone. - [Narrator] Sweetgreen towards profitability. Last quarter, the company announced it was profitable for the first time, though this comes with Sweetgreen is only profitable based on a measure called EBITDA, which excludes a variety of costs such as taxes, acquisition costs, restructuring costs, and It's a measure that's but doesn't follow generally - It's a pretty heavy list of things that aren't included, but by doing this, I mean, they can say that they just had their which is in Q2, and they wanna show some progress to investors. And I think that does show a certain magnitude of progress, but it's not all the way there. - [Narrator] The company that it can become a national business based on three things. It creates a new category in the market, has capital to expand, and maintains a loyal customer base. - We see Sweetgreen as having all three of those ingredients as we move forward. - You know, I think there will continue to be challenges as we scale, whether it be how we how we scale our technology, how we scale our leadership. But I think the big thing is proving that this type of offering can work all around the country. - I think they're pretty honest that they're trying to become a more mature business now. And you know, for a young company founded by young founders, that makes sense that (gentle upbeat music)