I'm going to show how you can play 12 fingering in an easy to remember way, so scales on the piano by heart. Hi, I'm Maria from OnlinePianoCoach.com. for adult beginners. You will learn a scales with the correct fingering. You important to practice, how a major scale proper technique for playing scales. If playing and practicing piano scales for comments below. Make sure to subscribe to get notified when I upload more piano lesson videos for beginner adult piano To learn about scales we need to know about half steps and whole steps on distance from one note to the one that This is a half step. The whole step is To learn a major scale we need to learn steps and C major is the easiest one to and we can see that we start with a step here and then it's a half step. Whole, whole, whole, half. This pattern whole, whole, half, whole pattern. We can play starting from any this pattern of distances between the So let's practice and learn five pattern. We're gonna play our major scale also need some good fingering. When you of 3 and 4 fingers, or finger finger, is used to stop or turn the scale. fingers, 1, 2, 3 and then I sneak under with my thumb and I play F here. And I play the other group of 4 fingers can stop here with 5, and turn and go could use that one and start another want. 1 2 3, 1 2 3 4. Again under, 1 2 3, 1 2 3 4. Again under and so on and so forth. only one octave. So again let's play the We're going to finish by playing a triad. the first, third and fifth steps on the us the next scale we're going to play. On next major scale. It's going to use the white keys with one exception, the 7th Let's take a look. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 is here. But a whole step, we need to raise this F to step here. And then we get the half a look at the pattern again. Starting So our new note is, so to speak, is an a triad. The next scale is going to be D I will use the F-sharp that we had before we're going to raise. ..4 5 6 here's the and that's a D major scale. Finish with be A major. I'm going to start down in the D major scale, we're going to keep So C-sharp is here and F-sharp is raise that one. A major has 3 black keys. E major. We keep the F-sharp, the C-sharp, the G-sharp and we're gonna add one more on the 7th step. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and there it is. E major, four black keys. Now repeat this in The left hand can start from the C that And 3, and the 4-group and 5 is the stop. Triad. G is the next scale. 7th step we need to raise. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. F-sharp. D-major. I'll start down here. Keep the F sharp. 7th step. Add a sharp. A major. F-sharp we had, C-sharp we had, 7th step we raise it. E major. As before F-sharp, G-sharp, C-sharp, and now the 7th step needs to be raised ;) So these were five major scales for both Now, as we continue the fingering needs We will learn two different scales: the B and they need to change a little bit in one We had finished before on the E triad so We'll start from B down here. We have four black keys. We have F-sharp, C-sharp one more on the 7th step, so we will the same fingering as before: 1 2 seventh step here which we raise, we use And the B major scale is actually a very the five black keys. For the left hand finger 5, (sorry) finger 1 on a black key we need to change the fingering a little bit. If we would have started on This gives us a little bit of an the 4th finger and we have now our 3-group here and our 4-group will be here. So starting on 4 raised seventh step and then 1 again. So 5th finger at all. It's still pretty easy, because we have on the white keys that we haven't done group of scales that use flats (b) instead If we start from F and end on F, we need to have the pattern as we have learned. Starting on F, whole step, whole step, half step so fourth note because we had a B here from that we have a half step. Let's take a here's another whole step now on the don't want that so when we lower our key Then go under with your finger 1 again then another whole step and finally a half B major scale this scale doesn't use the 5th finger in your right hand because you need to use the black key here. It would So, let's take a look again 1 2 3 4 -1 2 3 and then it's stop or turn with finger 4. If I continue I'll just do the same as before hand playing the F major scale is much fingering as before. Crossing over with 3-finger group, the 4-finger group, and the stop or turn, or not to use if you continue. Let's continue with the five major The black keys, as you might know, can have two names depending on how you write them with notes. For example here this note For our reference, we'll call them all D-flat and E-flat. So two of these scales learned before, because they're going to fingering then becomes kind of easy where we have the three group of black the two black keys. And it's the same all just one octave now. So starting from will do an octave and we're gonna check half step whole whole whole and the So, that's our G flat major scale. And we can use the fingering as we have learned 2 3 4, the white key gets the finger 1, 2 and stop on a 2, which makes it very easy from a black key will never use the We have the 3-group here and the 2-group here, and with the 1 on the side here. Continuing, I must do 4 here if I matter, but for practice it's good We finish with the triad and the fifth notes as before, I'm just going to move them all in one space. This I already it here, and then I need that F here. The step. The 7th step needs to be raised.1 2 3 4 5 6 7. Let's raise it. Here is our D-flat major scale in one octave. I still have both groups of 3 black and 2 black keys, so you still use the same fingering here. And finger one on the white key. And with the left hand the same thing. Finish with a triad, and our next scale is A-flat major. I keep the same notes as before, I just There, there and then I need another A-flat up here. Alright. 7th step 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 raise it, and here's change. Your fingering cannot stay the the other hand the left hand is very carefully you have the 3-group here, the here 1 2 3 4, and then obviously the same hand even though it changes now from 2 &amp; This is still the same, it's actually very The right hand keeps the same groups of 2 3 4 here, 2 3 all the time. It's just that we don't start with 2 obviously, we start with finger 3. Another white key, we'll play 1 as before and then we 1 again. And this is the difference note. And if we continue it becomes the Finish with a triad. Our next scale is E-flat major. Let's keep the same notes from before. E-flat, G, and F And raise the 7th step. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 and there is our E-flat major scale. Again the left hand is very easy to see the fingering. We have The right hand as before, we have the two fingers on the black key here, and 1 3 is the first step here. Now you look carefully, you have 1 2 3 then we have 1 2 3 here and scales you can do it all over the piano. Finish with a triad, and our last scale before. And B-flat goes up here. 7th that's your B-flat major. Again, it's very here, 4-group here, crossover with And the left hand, sorry the right hand the pattern of 3 here and of 4 here. On my website OnlinePianoCoach.com, I have written more about piano scales. You can also get printable PDFs and piano scale charts there. You will find the description. Make sure to subscribe to my advice for beginner adult piano players. as well. Remember to subscribe to this you will always know when I have beginner piano players. If you found this And leave a comment if you have a would like to see and me to cover Thank you so much for watching, and see