[UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Hi, and welcome back I'm your host, Rachid Finge, and If you think of it, many make sound, whether your Nest Mini, or your Nest Hub-- and your Pixel Buds, of course. Recently, Pixel Buds Pro got called spatial audio. It's basically like a And today, we have someone with us that So please join me in welcoming Lu Lu, Thank you for joining. Please tell us a little bit and how you ended up here. Lu: Yeah, and thanks for having me on. Rachid: Sure. Lu: Yeah. So I came to Google-- well, there's the how I came I came here from-- previously, I was working Probably a lot of people know it-- Roku. And it was a fun company to work at, to do much research and development. And so I was really interested of bringing research and development And so, well, Google came to me. And I was really excited to be Moved over. Rachid: Today's guest is Lu Silverstein is a senior He has a passion for making and that's exactly what was Lu loves a challenge, so making movies while all you're doing is is right up his alley. I hope you'll enjoy our conversation. All right. And now you work on spatial audio. Maybe just for starters, explain to you know, if you have, like, any Lu: Yeah. You know, my role here is manager for Pixel Audio Experiences. And so I cover everything that which means anything that plays-- it It could be ringtones, notifications. It also has anything to do with the Rachid: Oh, and is it only, or are you also involved in, you Were you involved in creating that create those, for example? Lu: Yeah. It's all of the above. So, you know, product around working on anything from to the design to the development all launched and out there and doing well. Rachid: Perfect. Well, I have you to love the alarm sound on my Pixel phone. So I guess that's from your team So thank you for that. But that's a clear description of And then today's episode is which sounds very fancy. And it actually is. But can you explain how you Lu: Yeah, sure. I think the best way to think about is that it's like surround Rachid: Right. Lu: And it's sort of what the &quot;Spatial&quot; is that it creates the depth, kind of like in the real world. Like, if you're standing outside location, and a train goes by and they're a certain distance So spatial audio-- we take a lot and we actually simulate that using sounds are actually in but you've got your headphones on. Rachid: Yeah. Because you've got to apply Because I know a lot of people, they of dollars putting multiple so they can have this Yet we sort of create the same So could you tell us a little Because it seems impossible to me. Lu: There is a bit of magic, but Rachid: Right. Lu: You have to sort of recreate the So the way we hear sounds are through-- it starts through a sound actually of the outside ear that you have, and then your brain processes it. But there's a lot of things happening Rachid: Right. Lu: And so when a sound it actually reaches your the left and the right. And so it actually bounces Rachid: Mm-hmm. Lu: This sounds a little like, transfers through ear to the other, some of the sounds. It does? Your head actually-- it's how you can hear sounds through a wall? Lu: Well, there are sounds Rachid: Amazing. Lu: And so we recreate all of that your brain into thinking that that and actually has reflected off and on the inner ear, and then And we have a special has developed that is algorithm, which runs on the phone. And when you listen to a movie, with a certain number of channels. We take all of those. It's kind of like-- you hear Well, we take all of that and we then process it on the phone, to sound like it's coming, with all those things that we take into consideration. And we have special models Rachid: Right. So if I go back to my so 5.1. If I'm not mistaken, that means to put in every corner of the room, one And then the .1 is the subwoofer. So if there's a bird coming then I can hear that actually placed a speaker behind me. But then with the Pixel Buds and the to trick my brain into thinking that Lu: Yeah. That's exactly it. Rachid: That's still crazy. But it's all math. So that's really cool. So now, Lu, when I'm watching I can easily, I guess, you know, or turn my neck a little bit. And of course, the sound will change, are changing. But how does that work, then, Because as I move my head, I move Lu: Yeah. So now we're going to peel Rachid: Right, yeah. Lu: There's two, essentially, that are available on Pixel. And what you're asking where-- and this is sort of the the Pixel Buds Pro have them called accelerometers that The two different types what we call dynamic, which and then we have another one called I would call it a little bit So let's start with, since you asked about that, and then But the dynamic one-- it takes those little sensors and it knows the position of your head And so in the real world, when-- let's keep that bird example. Let's say it's a floating there right in front of you. When you move your head left and stays where it is in space. Rachid: Sure. Lu: So we have to recreate have to know when you're to literally sort of do keep the bird in the space where it is. Rachid: Exactly. Lu: And so that's what the do with these little accelerometers. A lot of headphones don't It's obviously an additional cost, have to do from a software perspective. Most, all of your standard headphones, So they have what is which is called static spatial audio. And so what happens is if the bird-- let's say, again, the bird If you don't have those and we don't know where your head it actually gets stuck to your head like the real world. So it's a little bit less But it does still have the That's the spatial part. And so if you don't move you get a pretty good experience But the Pixel Buds Pro gives you that realistic immersive experience. Rachid: I guess, from a product it extra cool to work at you can work on all the get to the dynamic spatial audio if and tell them, hey, I need Otherwise, we cannot make this happen. It's maybe one of the few that software and hardware combination. Lu: Yeah. That's right. So I probably should explain-- in the chain of-- and because we have to actually If you just start from have to make those work with the phone. But then the phone has to also so I have to work with the This project was really complex had to work with all the including the operating So there were many, that we had involved together to make that simple where they just tap Play on a movie, and it just works. There was actually a lot of work to tie those-- not only tie from an organizational but technically, we have to thread So the way for the user to think about they want, and they see that it and they click Play, then is the movie itself has a Rachid: Right. Lu: We take the audio track. We see that it's that 5.1 So there's actually six channels. There's 5 plus 1. And we have to then decode-- because it's compressed to go over and uncompress it, and then And this is all being done on the phone. And then we have to send it-- right-- we have to then send it and then play it back. And then we have to figure out So there's a lot of communication going and the earbuds at that point. Rachid: Now, I can't possibly ask because that's just, well, But I am wondering, you know-- there are What's the role of AI in creating Is there a role for AI to play in there? Lu: You know, there's a we kind of delineate between AI And the difference is how you AI is more generative, and then it can kind of go Rachid: Right. Lu: This is more of-- we program set of algorithms that are in there. And so this is more of But it still does a lot of work at It still has to decode a lot of It has to specialize them in these different locations. Rachid: OK. So we have the accelerometers What else is there, that spatial audio sounds as intended? Lu: So there are a few things to And it's actually-- a lot side of things on the earbuds. So what we do in software is we that you're in. And we do a lot of assumption. But you can imagine, like, and you yell, the sound is in a very, very small, let's say, room. There's a lot of And so when you speak, it'll reflect And so we recreate a lot of that happens to make it sound like And typically, in a movie, there There are scenes that are inside. There are scenes that are outside. And so that helps recreate that we've built in the spatializer. The other thing that we do is we and how it acts with three-dimensional There's sort of a nerdy term. We call it head-related or HRTF, which is also to make it sound more like 3D sound. Rachid: All right. So you already mentioned 5.1 movies. What kind of content other than if I have my Pixel phone Lu: Yeah. So any kind of 5.1 content that So for example, games-- if a game has 5.1, it We've focused primarily though, because that's where from that spatial audio effect. And we've done a lot to see how people really do find with spatial audio-- you know, specific sounds, and they feel more immersed in it. But there is some other We are working to expand types in coming years. Rachid: I was just also wondering-- you mentioned those But our Help Center page also says that Like, why is that? Lu: Ah. So when we do the tracking of positions, we assume that we may position so that you and so it helps to keep the phone-- there's sensors, the same There's accelerometers And so-- Those usually make the phone right from portrait to I guess. Lu: Yeah. Yep. And so we want to make sure that and that if you're moving around orientation issues with the earbuds. Rachid: Right. OK. So that's basically to temporarily in order to make sure that I don't nausea, or something like that. Exactly. Well. I'm really happy you thought about that. So what's next for Or maybe even more widely, Lu: You know, this is the is that we can imagine a lot of You know, these are not But I can tell you, just from a personal the possibilities in these things. Like, in the real world, when it helps you get oriented. So you can think of things like Even a podcast, you could hear especially if you have multiple people. Or even things like newscasts, where You can tell where people are. Some people do a lot and so you can imagine hearing It feels much more realistic, and you So there's a lot of different You know, we're working, like I said, We just launched spatial audio And we're really waiting to hear, like, kind of feedback they have, and what they're interested in as well. Rachid: All right. Sounds like stay tuned and get feedback. So that will help you where to go next with spatial audio. Wonderful. Lu: Yeah. Rachid: So we always close By Google Podcast with a top tip [UPBEAT MUSIC] Lu, give us a tip of something that our can do to get the most Lu: Yeah. This is a good one. So one of the things that's complicated for our customers, is sometimes, I mentioned all those different pieces You have the right piece of content, you you have to have the earbuds. A simple way to just check that and if you have your Pixel Buds let's say, 6 Pro, 7, 7 Pro, and spatial audio, the dynamic kind-- when people are talking you can move your head if their voices stay moving your head back and forth. That's a really quick, that you're getting the spatial It's sort of like the analogy of, you where TVs are. And you can see the difference But when you get home, you looks like compared to the other ones. This is the quick check Do I have a difference between Spatial Rachid: That's a good one. And well, I have no plans tonight. So definitely going to try that with my Pixel Buds Pro. Lu, thank you so much for giving us And looking forward to see Lu: Yeah. Thanks for having me on. [UPBEAT MUSIC] Rachid: Oh, I really enjoyed that. Thank you so much, Lu, for your the magic behind spatial audio. Now, if you don't have is a great time to visit and get yourself a as they are the ultimate I'm already looking forward to the If you haven't yet, make sure you Thank you so much for listening, and Take care. Talk to you later. [UPBEAT MUSIC]