The Isla de la Juventud arouses the curiosity of many, not only those who live outside of Cuba, but also Cubans themselves who, for economic reasons, find it impossible to get to know their own country. Today I am going to show you one of the most famous and macabre places in Cuba. - They give me chills. - I don't like going alone. I don't go in alone... To get here we have traveled about 4 kilometers from Nueva Gerona. Welcome to the model prison. This place, which began its construction around the 20s of the last century, has 42 years of history as a prison. Then it would be used for another purpose. Some residents of the area come here to look for a fruit that grows wild to eat. Contrary to what many people think, the prisoners here were not only Cubans. I'll tell you about that... this place where we're going was the administration building. It was in this part where the heads of the prison and the other officers were found. As you can see, it is quite an interesting place that after the triumph of the Revolution became a Palace of Pioneers, and now, clearly, destroyed and in disuse. This is quite chilling, all the abandonment, and surely they continued to use it as a public bathroom. - And here people come at night to do their things. The model prison, look at how many abandoned buildings here, because it's not just this one, it's also another one that is opposite, and another, and another... How many buildings are there? - There are four circular ones, two rectangular ones and, well, a central dining room, and this is the administrative building, plus the little houses that are around this building that were those of the former officers, heads of the prison. As the macabre horror stories go, here's a leak up there. Let's move on. According to the stories, here the tortures that were done to the prisoners were very varied; one of them consisted of having them get up there, in that circular, and have them repaired. Imagine how the heat would be, the sun, that burning at high noon and the prisoners repairing that. They did it barefoot, in theory, so they wouldn't slip and fall, but really it was so their feet would burn and fall. And one of the isolation cells was up there. Well, Armando tells us that there were 15 isolation cells up there. Imagine how high that is, the sun giving there constantly. The official media say that, in addition, the prisoners who were put in isolation there, were put naked, without clothes. The usual slogans: &quot;always faithful to the party, the Revolution and Fidel.&quot; These buildings have a museum value, in fact, they are national patrimony, and the utility that could be given to them is that it could be a great thematic museum, where all the edges of the model prison are shown , both good and bad, which logically There are many more bad things about this place than good. They say that one day a court brigade came and took all the prison bars, steel for Antillana, to melt everything down. This was the flag of good behavior, it says above: distinction for good behavior. In other words, not all prisoners behaved the same and not all were given the same privileges. Here came those who in theory behaved well. Let's take a look in there to imagine what those times were like. The stairs are a bit dangerous, the steps are worn and here they are raised. Well, there's a laundry room there. According to Armando tells me, here they put everyone to sleep together, here you can see some images where the bars were, which clearly ripped them all off. - Because this was modified. Here they made a classroom, with a blackboard and everything. - Oh yeah. on the other side is all cracked as if it were going to fall already. In these buildings that you are seeing here, which were called circular, there is a story that tells one of the tortures and that is that one of the prisoners was denied water, and what he did, when he did not have water, was drink the water coming from the toilet. When the guards found out, they even took away his access to that water, until clearly, he died of thirst. The funny thing was that his father was also in prison and he died begging his father for water, because he was thirsty. Later on I am going to tell you other stories that are commented on by people of a certain age, and that also appear in some books. Look, all that you are seeing here, were cells, note that the fence is missing again. It's pretty big, let's see if we can see the bigger number here. Look, the biggest number that I see here is 93, that's the biggest number that you see. There are a total of 93 cells on each floor, five floors, 93 times 5 is 465 cells, for 2 prisoners. That would be 930 prisoners who were here. - Because each cell had a capacity for two prisoners. They slept in bunk beds and had their sink inside and their toilet, however they bathed down here, in full view, and there you can see that there was no fence of any kind, nor was there any kind of privacy. And they were watched from up there, where there was usually an armed guard, of course, ready to shoot. This place that you are looking at now is called the Dining Room of 3000 Silences. What you are seeing here are the tables that went here, and the chairs a little further down, and it was called that of the 3,000 silences because it has a capacity for 3,000 diners or prisoners, in this case. They had to eat in absolute silence. When it was discovered that one was talking, everyone was ordered to get up and leave their food. This place here was clearly another surveillance point. Here he knows everything, everything. and there you can see the elevator, which at the time was the only elevator on the entire Isle of Pines, as it was called at that time, until in 1978 it was renamed Isla de la Juventud. The place was supposed to be prosperous. And why is this barred, Armando? Because this has a historical significance and it is that Fidel and the assailants of the Moncada Barracks were here , among other political prisoners, because there were political prisoners who were not precisely from the wing of Fidel Castro's ideas. Even so, they took all the bars from the cells and from the windows the same way. You should be wondering how you get up to those towers from where everything was controlled. Well over here. - There's the entrance. I don't recommend anyone to enter, but hey... - Armando doesn't dare to enter. Is it because of that hole that is below that is seen in the distance? - Yes. Well, I want to get a little closer to teach you guys. It's tough, tough, really tough. - Be careful (Armando doesn't want me to go in...) - Look how there's a tunnel and everything down there. Be careful not to fall into that hole. - I'm not going to fall into any hole. - I really don't know what's down there. - Let's explore what's here. - There's nothing down here. The story is for here, it is an underground tunnel. (5 minutes later) Well, Armando advised me not to go in. - Yes, it's really not good, first, it's just the two of us, second, there may be dead animals, there may be garbage, there may be mice with lectospira, even a funny person who may also be down there who wants to scare us. - The truth is, well, why are we going to risk it. Maybe nothing will happen but maybe yes. - There can be a landslide and you don't know it. - Yes, there was a part there that was a little bad. Just as you climb the towers and the truth is that many of these buildings, contrary to what I thought when I entered the first building, are in very poor condition. Another interesting detail about those tunnels is that they are all sealed, except for that one, that's the only one that's still standing, where you can go a bit further. It is not sealed for what it is, because Fidel was there, as Armando told them. From these booths the prisoners and the field that is there were watched over. From one booth to the other there are about 50 meters, maybe a little more, and every two short booths like this one, there was a tall one like that one. How did you get up? Perhaps putting up a ladder because you can't really see any other way. - Well, as one of the many stories here from the model prison, one of the escapes of several prisoners is told, because there were prisoner escapes, there was even a prisoner who escaped and never appeared. We are talking about Chino, it is not known what happened to him, it is not known if he was still alive or if he was killed. But there is a very curious leak and it is a small plane that came from the United States, from Key West, made a small stopover in Havana and from Havana left here, with the intention of landing, which could have been, it could have landed here, in these flat prison areas, to take a prisoner. Logically, the prison guards found out and immediately apprehended the pilot. They also arrested the prisoner who was already running towards the plane, who was, I think, the brother-in-law of the pilot of the plane. It was forbidden from that time to fly over the prison, and logically, to land in the areas of the prison. - There were also many riots, many of them to decide on better conditions, many of them to try to escape too, to take control of the prison. Almost all of them started in the circulars and the first thing they took was the dining room. Imagine in this prison the level of violence there was, the level of extortion, there were prisoners who called them bosses, they were prisoners who controlled other prisoners, and it wasn't just these bosses, even the doctors committed atrocities, according to the story. They say that you entered the hospital with an x disease, and the procedures that they did to you were what the doctors understood. That the same commanders killed prisoners. I was reading that there was one that killed about a prisoner a week. That another of the torture methods was rape. There are many stories told and untold as well. If you get to feel that aura that is being discussed, it is something that you should experience yourself when you enter places like this. Hello good. Here there are many mango bushes and the truth is that there is a strange smell, and it is from the mangoes on the ground, the mango bushes themselves, here someone was picking a few to eat. It is said that this site also served as a concentration camp. During World War II, Cuba had declared itself against fascism and German, Japanese and Italian prisoners were held here. Many of the Japanese lived in Cuba; They were calm people who one fine day picked them up and brought them here. Well family, I hope you enjoyed this video, I think it's the most macabre we have on the channel. We also have the one at the Sauto Theater, which tells certain horror and ghost stories, but this one is based on real events, on things that happened. There are many things that have not been written in the books that only the survivors of this prison know about. It is one more story of Cuba, of that changing Cuba, which changes more every day. (Does it change for better or for worse?) Well, nothing, we hope you enjoyed this video, here in the company of our host from (Does it change for better or for worse?) the Island, by Armando el pinero. - It's a pleasure to share with you, TheSpartanVlog subscribers. I admire him a lot, he knows it. - If so, leave a like, share this video so that it reaches more people. Maybe you know someone who was here and can share a story in the comments, and if you haven't already, please subscribe so our family continues to grow. Remember to also go through Armando's channel. Nothing family, I love you. See you in a next video.