With some specific plant-based foods are actually able what's good for our eyes or good for our brain. So you better quality of life and protected function. Can the vision, enhance cognition, and optimal brain health? It's very empowering that we can actually use knowledge, decisions that can actually help prevent disease. So you today is Dr. William Lee. He is an internationally foundation for more than 40 new medical treatments that diabetes, blindness, heart disease, and obesity. We can known to be very important to contain the secret sauce specific foods or nutrients that can have a positive that is the most precious sense to us, but we don't -selling author of Eat to Beat Your Diet. This is about longer. He is President and Medical Director of the blood vessels and preventative health, and the author of Eat the Starved Cancer, has garnered more than 11 actually testing were as or more potent than the drugs could actually even reverse, our nutrition can help us eating to beat vision loss is a reality today. Do you also three foods we should delete or at least reduce? think are just winners. Welcome back quick brains. I am your host and your brain angiogenesis. It's impact on the brain and your vision, build a healthier, better functioning brain. Welcome to having me on. We have a lot of mutual friends. We spoke together. We shared a stage and I really enjoyed your because we get a lot of questions and we've never done terms of burning fat, healing your metabolism, living 400 episodes we've done, we never covered this topic. So and I highly recommend people get your book. We know you that reading is to remind what exercises to your body. I called Quick Success and it's our monthly and where I do then we also have a book club on top of that. And one of that you would delete from your diet and also the three diet? And that would probably be the last question, but community. People could find out more about it and join is, what I opened with is, how can you manage vision concerned about. I know a lot of our listeners have your diet. What's your paradigm or the principles or I'm so glad we're talking about vision, Jim, because scientist and also as a doctor. In fact, I wanted to be and I doctor because I was so fascinated by this little direct communications to our brain. So everything that ourselves, you know, we associate with what we can that is the most precious sense to us, but we don't to, we have to start having problems, right? So if you many people take for granted until you start to lose it. our vision health is like that. It's just something we you start having problems. Then you're like, wait a scientist. I'm a what we call a vascular biologist. So I every single organ in your body from your mouth to your livers. And so the idea of food being something, our bloodstream to our eye is absolutely vital for the And I'll come back to that, talk about how do we do internal medicine. And what that means is that I take And because vision is one of my passions and brain have actually been working on from a dementia anybody who sort of our age range probably knows if not good friends who are actually struggling with, you know, something that my research has actually been directly in fact, the eye is the opening to the brain from a eye also protects the brain. This is why the eye, in brain. And most doctors don't look in the eye, only an internal medicine, so I cover the whole gamut. And I background doing medical therapy development, as you vessels as a common denominator of disease. And by know, like what is it that underlies connects all these dysfunction, dementia, to obesity, to diabetes, to And so what I did is I did a deep dive into this space we actually wrangle, can maneuver, produce, squeeze out, enterprise. I then started to ask, well, you know, what And what I discovered is that we started throwing food help keep blood vessels helping, including vision. I testing were as or more potent than the drugs that we to food is medicine. And I love to talk about it because a doctor for people, you know, it's the right drug for not everyone can get them treatments they need. Food is very empowering that we can actually, you know, use daily decisions that can actually help prevent disease. if you're actually having the doctor to the invention, to what the prescription actually does. So this all kind that our vision is a is a window to our brain. Our you lost your sense of smell, you know, you're probably vision all of a sudden like that sets off panic. And so are now known to be very important to contain the secret preserving our vision. As it turns out, the research is our cognition. Why don't we start by defining the term and what role does it play in overall brain health and genesis is how they how the body grows them. So angio vessels. And what's really amazing is that we've got 60 bodies under the skin through all of our tissues all the got more circulation and our blood vessels are the breathe and the nutrients that we to feed every single that's really the connection. So when we have healthy actually good when we've got good circulation in our happens when we start to have problems with their cognitive loss is actually interference with the surprisingly, both are in our heads and our skull like what feeds the brain feeds the eye, what ails the use that as kind of a jumping off point to thinking of vision loss over the age of 60 is diabetes diet for high blood sugars kind of marinate in your bloodstream overly marinated with high blood sugar and all the to your insulin and all the other hormones and vessels do? They actually start to shut down. And when to try to heal the shutdown areas. And when that happens reason why your eye, my eyes, I should say plural, are bit smaller than a golf ball and they're crystal clear morning, you see the bright sunlight that's light it's like a fish tank with an aquarium. The light goes right to the back of the eye and the back of the eye, nerves, the nerve, carpet of nerves is called the really literally a carpet of nerves that can, that is interlaced woven, stitched together with a circulation, definition that we want for our vision requires a lot of vessels are laced together, okay, like a, like a signals hit that nerve signal and it's powered by the into our brain. Okay, right to the back of our brain. circulation when it has to grow to overcome damage blood something called macular degeneration, most common cause without diabetes. So it's when blood vessels are their unhealthy state by trying to grow more of actually not adequate. And when the blood vessels grow blood vessels have extra blood vessels have to grow to there's not a lot of room for growing new blood vessels. normally from diabetes or aging, they leak. Now I told when blood vessels leak, they're leaking cloudy fluid or this crystal clear aquarium. It's kind of like dumping think's going to happen? You're not going to be able to losing vision. And so the most common causes of vision unhealthy blood vessels. And that's why some of the real other people have done is to develop anti-anrogenic circus down boy. Okay. Down blood vessels back to leaking. That is actually the biggest breakthrough in blindness and blindness from aging from macular Jim, you got to inject in the eye. You got to put a really well. So the question is how can you avoid your age, my age, we don't want to ever get that needle And this is where diet comes in because our nutrition also help to tame those blood vessels that might think vision loss is a reality today. And before we get into tactical. And my promise to everybody is, you know, we time, but then also give people practical, pragmatic just want to get clear then. So your eye, which has part of your brain that's outside of your skull. And as mitigate, like even if it's their neuroprotective, and good for your brain, or neuro nutrition, it could also we could actually even not even just protect, but even actually taming blood vessels run markedly for people reverse vision loss and restore lost vision. I have a breakthrough treatments, these are the injections came patient who was in her 80s. Her favorite thing was that ball and good coordination. And she was so bummed both golf ball. I got her in treatment. And in about two like, guess where I'm calling you from, Dr. Lee? I'm and really scoring and doing really well at it again. being able to see again. And in fact, I'm like, how did know, because I knew she couldn't drive because of the I got my license back because I could see again. So this vessels healthy. And by the way, the same foods and is what we're talking about. Blood vessels that you mirror, when you've had a late night out, okay? And you of how many blood vessels in your eye. The ones that behind the eye. You know, when you go to the eye doctor and they look deep. They're really looking a part of neurons that are there, interlaced with blood vessels. that the foods that actually can be used to protect the with blood vessels, keeping those blood vessels healthy, to be protective for the brain as well. And so here is the eye and the brain being outside of the skull. Here's skull, is really a two-level house, okay? The brain is brain, underneath the floor, which is the bottom part of your eyes. So the part of your brain that's on the first now the brain's right there. And so this connection, circulation between your eyes and your brain suddenly good for the nerves, and what's good for the blood vessels and nerves in the eyes. So this is a perfect interconnected and very practical, too. I love that. I episode's not intended to be to diagnose or to treat any qualified health practitioner, just I'm not really obviously for us also as well. So let's get into it. can have a positive effect on your vision? For vision, clinical studies on food and health was run about 20 Institute. So this is sort of the, you know, from the of researchers wanted to find out, could we prevent Because, you know, people are working at an older age productivity and quality of life go way down. And by the the fact that our eyes allow us to be independent. As we our own thing. And the problem is that if you can't see, medicines, right? And if you need them as an older was discovered is that there are dietary supplements Xeosanthin, lutein, carotenoids, okay, and I'll come to their 60s and 70s and 80s, can dramatically reduce the right? So here's a dietary supplement that actually of dietary supplements. If you, if you ever wanted to largest clinical trauma, Dr. Bruno observed your visions doing any of this stuff. I'm just telling you the facts people at frankly over the age of 50 to take once a day the thing. The southern erids is really, you know, some these chemicals that I just mentioned Xeosanthin and nature has laced into foods. What are some of the foods? persimmons, tomatoes. You get these same type of natural know, this whole idea of plant-based foods, which is a bell peppers, kale, leafy greens like watercress, those to lower the risk that you might have blood vessels thing that they actually do is they also, because you're affect your brain. They also protect and tame better blood flow to the brain. Now, I'm going to tell supplements that translate the food, but by the way, the evidence that's starting to develop. That the dementia as well, isn't that cool? All right. Now, foods blood vessels directly. So, there are foods that there's know actually can prevent abnormal blood vessels from have illagic acid from a strawberry, illagic acid is strawberries, they actually have higher levels. And the illagic acid as a response to being nibbled on by bugs healing response. So, when you grow naturally, the eat an organic strawberry, grow naturally, you're going Recently, it's been shown by a group at University of per day for six weeks. This is published in a research cognitive deficits, right? Not full-blown end-stage I'm sorry, what is that again? You know, the thing that improved memory, improved memory, strawberries, one cup frustration of not being able to remember things, okay? executive functioning score, all because of the illagic as well. So, again, you know, we're beginning to tease chemical names, don't worry about remembering all the medicine and I write about this in my book. Let me do we're beginning to understand is that some specific vessel, protect our vision and what's good for our eyes -barrowed approach to overall better quality of life and especially for your gray matter, you know, in your eye studies also as well at our show notes as we always do you this question from our quick success community. join. So, I believe we always want to be able to give information alone isn't going to change our life. It's choices we can make. There's really only four choices to something, you do less of something or you do more of that we had in our community was if you can identify about a lot of different foods, which is amazing. They get their copy. Do you have three favorite foods that should delete or at least reduce. And I know they're with the three you would avoid or at least do your best could talk about three that would be specifically favorites. Are you a high achiever constantly seeking program. It's a deep dive in support system to master professional achievement. Included is our exclusive from amazing books to level up your learning and your your burning questions. You could also participate in meet my decades of expertise. Simply go to quicksuccess works best for you. Sure, listen, this is as you pointed disease and into your beat your diet. I actually talk actually float to the top is super healthy. And I also let's start with three, right? Because people can framework of of the four choices that you can actually tell you as a foodist medicine researcher and as a people get started to do something for themselves. Three out. Let's call it that way. Soda, I would say drinking you know, like every most other people. Something to cut And even the diet sodas would actually have non damage our circulation and damage our brain function by beginning to realize is connected to our vision house well. So cut down, cut down or cut out sodas, whether ultra process foods. And when I and I'll give you a know, that the big events, whether it's the Olympics or together and what do they do? They bust out the chips nuclear colored chips are a great example of something They take whole foods like wheat and other kinds of then paint them with colors and then put artificial something that really might be addictive, you know, is that those ultra processed foods of which I think ones. Cut down or cut out because those actually harm including for our vision, including for our brain. Eat they're not good for you. Cut down or cut out. The third Process meats, by the way, by the World Health We do know that actually eating process meats is software jail and stomach cancer if you eat them a lot. mom's lunch made with that sliced baloney or whatever probably grew up with that kind of stuff surrounding us. ultra processed meats, baloney, salami, pepperoni, all world old school things that are air dried and minimally of product. I'm talking about the stuff you can buy sliced under your pizza, cut down and cut out. That is coloring, added colorings and seasonings. You get a lot was a USDA inspector and he was specifically inspecting up my awareness on this because he said, you know, some make the sausage in a casing. They drop them into a vat, preservatives and flavorings. And just leave them there casing wrinkles like your fingertips in a bathtub when a actually eating. And he's like, and I said, oh, really? It's more alarming. He's like, I used to wear rubber said, I'd have to change my boots every few months rubber in my boots. And I'm like, all right, that's it. down a cutout, stoda, regular diet, ultra processed third thing is process meats. Look, if you want to have these are the things that definitely cut down. Now that reduced that you subtracted, what are three foods are sort of what I call grand slammer foods, these are foods to light up your life. Okay, light up your health, heart health, including muscle function. If you're better muscles, you need to regenerate your muscles, be three grand slamming foods that I think are just most commonly drank beverage in the world. I have one as the best probably is, but recent research has shown that tea like puer tea, which is a tea from Southwest China, for circulation, better for brain health, lowers scientifically shown and clinically shown benefit. So don't add sugar to your tea. All right, drink it as be if you're going to put sweeteners, you can use honey, dump chunk lots and lots of of cane sugar into it. And they're practical. I think people like practical things. your tea. They afternoon tea have a little milk or cream polyphenols in the tea, the catechins that are good for the little soap bubbles that that dairy cow dairy You can't see them. If you only absorb maybe 30% of the good right. And so if you want to get the most, I always talk doing. If you hold back on the dairy, not milk was okay. almond milk, soy milk, those are fine if you want to cut I'm using berries as a category. So you get to choose blueberries, blackberries, lingonberries. You pick your tiny but powerful because the bright colors, the blues, amazing flavors that pop out. The right berry is polyphenol, see a lactic acid, the anthocyanins that different ways. And by the way, for berries, here's to the farmer's market and buying the seasonal fresh frozen berries which are less expensive and you can buy deal with, okay. And they have the same bioactive value. good. So second, berries, choose your own. They're all for those. Now that you have some room because you're tell you is brassica, which is a category of vegetable. are all the kinds of very common if you go to your local produce section are going to be brassica. But if you're know is a super healthy way of eating, you're talking kale, the Tuscan kale, the covalenero, you're talking greens of different sorts, great source of dairy, fire, brain health and light up your blood vessel, your lowering inflammation and you get to choose from the generations or the repertoire of Asian recipes to be one of the most boring things that you can actually actually look forward to eating too. Look forward to three things I would say tea berries and this whole either the Mediterranean market or grocery store or the to find something green that you'd like to eat. It's appreciate that and I want to remind our listeners that choices. Dr. Lee has given you like three things that then also three delicious options because it can be your family, for your team, people could implement this. that can help decide on the food track of what they're say that we've just covered a small fraction of what's burning fat, healing, metabolism and living longer. Dr. your work, your books, where do you recommend them? disease and eat to beat your diet. They can be found online order. There's nothing better to me than to hear doorsteps, you know, so you can do that. You can follow is how you spell my last name. At Dr. William Lee, I'm name it. And then, you know, come to my website. It's newsletter, sign up for it because what my mission is is I sort of put it through the truth filter, the data is rumor, hearsay, urban legend. And I try to take the to get it out to as many people as possible. And because can actually put into their kitchen and do something that you're foodie also as well. So I challenge consuming this episode. And on social media post it, tag post, I'd love for you to share what you learn a couple your family, your friends get to benefit because you could be rewarded for it, but also you learn it on how share it, you kind of get to learn it twice. So I we'll put all the highlights and the resources here, some of the studies at gymquick.com forward slash notes. much longer, we put the extended version. We limit all sure you subscribe. And you could get so much so many subscribers. We post daily there and we'll put the this on audio on YouTube. And please always share and give. So Dr. Williams, thank you so much for being on talent. Thanks, Jim. It's a real pleasure to speak with listening. Share this episode. Make sure you subscribe a lot. We have some big things coming. And until our