It was a collective idea. It originated in 2007, the Institute of Technology in Architecture. We realized quite soon that we bring together all the expertise With both a critical eye and a positive attitude the expansion of the ETH campus It became obvious So I got the idea not to propose for the new building where we as an institute I found that we could build We could raise the building We would also try to implement the new construction processes We would implement them one to one. The philosophy in terms of energy The building stands in an energy flux which is generated by the machines and most of all by external irradiation. The entire complex is embedded energetically We took Hansjurg Leibundgut's idea and implemented it on a large scale, for once, We conceived a building So the vertical infrastructure like elevators, ducts Instead we have created The construction of the roof This was a one-to-one implementation, from the drawing board The shape correlates with the overall assignment of creating a communal space for the institute. First of all, it was to be a roof covering everything, This led us to combine and the need to provide roof drainage by designing this overarching roof. The rest of the development How is the roof joined, how do we connect where? Are there exceptions to the rules of the design? The roof is like a kind of stretchy fabric that adapts and accommodates It appears to become this overall roof The exchange between structural engineering, This meant that we could not proceed sequentially Instead, we had to proceed iteratively. We repeatedly performed structural analyses and and these, in turn, changed the model. First the architects drafted a rough shape. Then we transferred that to our models did tension analyses. Thirdly we communicated the force effects to ROB Technologies. They developed special algorithms for us to position the individual nails in the joints. However, these algorithms also have consequences. If you can't place a sufficient number of nails you have to make the boards bigger. That, in turn, impacts the basic model's geometry. And so, in the second stage of iteration, and adjust the height of the boards. This led to a change in rigidity. And we had to recalculate And so on. The entire process underwent We started with the best possible condition: All the boards were as thin as possible. Initially I wanted to make a flowing nailing pattern, as you often do But this here is a bit too dense. So I achieved a better result putting the nails This vertex was computed And at the same time we always calculated Today's computers that they allow us to solve problems Take the nailing pattern, for instance, where we have a complex overlap You'd never dare to work that out manually. That was the potential of the principle of it enabled us to design this complex building, to calculate it and manufacture it in such a way that every bit at every point is built in rather than according to a worst-case scenario. How do you start such a process? How do you transfer research to reality? Of course it all starts with a concept, which we had researched and tested out and elements on a scale of 4 by 3 meters. But then we performed two leaps. The second leap is the requirements of reality. It is the challenge that makes you believe it is feasible; you also have to find someone We began on a scale of 1:3, 1:2, in our prototype, our drafts To adapt this to the scale of 25,000 square feet The material itself doesn't scale. The joint doesn't scale. This means that the principles can absolutely However, the scaling posed As Fabio mentioned, in order to permit a close collaboration the other specialists and our research team. That was an exciting process. The most important thing is We used more or less It is available on the market in great quantity. So based on that, in a single procedure - &quot;single procedure&quot; let's say: in a single operation we adapted it That was new to me. It's lumber, You cannot produce such a roof, We tried. We built one girder by hand. It took us about ten times longer than the robot. It was extremely time-consuming to position That convinced our employees The gap between research and reality is rather wide at first. Eventually they converge. When the time comes and you know it is feasible, it's no longer research, strictly speaking. It has evolved from a research project. You could call it &quot;built research&quot;. We can't say: That must not happen. And this requires an integral planning process. Not only digital planning but also communication between people. By way of sketches, discussions ... Every form of communication In the planning stage We didn't choose a word like BIM We followed the traditional path; the plans for the girders, The models were accepted. Based on these models The challenge lay mainly with my project managers, whose minds are already engaged in production You have to reckon in enough time, There are 137 windows in this project. They have to be worked on manually. That's not possible. That's the only way for businesses to make money and still achieve a fine product. The crucial point about the digital chain is: I need to know at the start And how it must be processed in order to work out. This point is essential. It's not just about the digital aspect; about involving the businesses as soon as possible. Then they can contribute which also affects the parameters for the shape. 'Can we produce it or not, You base your planning on that In our world, with its awarding of contracts, the two disciplines of planning and Now we are able to bridge those gaps to grow closer again. It is crucial for architects to understand how something is produced. That means that the plan - the data - The architect, the engineer, but of course the producers too, have to rethink. Our interest mainly concerns A new building culture can emerge from that. Architecture has always been This is a potential that architecture can tap into. Just as the digital fabrication technologies and change the way architecture appears, so does architecture conversely affect At the end of the day we can take this as an example of a project that was digitally designed, analysed and prepared for production. We also produced it digitally There's no point in putting up a great building which must remain a one-off, that no-one else can afford it. I think this was a success insofar as we put up a building that can be copied and which demonstrates great responsibility This is where we want to take the research We call it the factory of the future, Human beings work here. People are at home here. The robots are hanging from the ceiling So the digital component is added In this collaboration between man and machine for architectural exploration. ETH grants us a a lot of freedom. We were given this freedom by Ralph Eichler; ETH's former president And I am grateful to him The advance of digitalization and networking No area is exempt. The building industry in particular is likely ETH has a great tradition in mechatronics and is a leader in the field of digital fabrication. The Arch_Tech_Lab is an exceptional building It has all the prerequisites for digital architecture