Professor Paul Bloom: here's where we left off. lecture and for about half of social psychology. talking about certain ourselves. bias and how we see other attribution error. bit about some aspects of how we So, we quickly talked about other people including similarity, and attractiveness, discussion of the Matthew which is basically that good If you're rich you'll get a if you're smart people will if you're attractive and so on. this point. of class. [laughter] Just hand me it now. I'm going to ask the teaching approaching that area. about [laughter] how we form impressions of and tell you a couple of impression formation. first impressions matter a lot. reasons. humans have, in general, once you believe something other along the likes to support what So, the classic study here was speaker comes in and some of the describing the speaker as very the other as--do not bring your late. [laughter] saying--thanks, cold and then it turned out when they're asked for their people are very much biased by If I'm described to you as a and you see me and I'm all kind everything, &quot;Look how vivacious and If I'm described as somebody you might think he's an If he's described as somebody you could interpret my activity Your first impression sets a interpret everything else. excellent movie called Being Sellers. movie &quot;Being There&quot; was that the the character Chauncey Gardner, the reputation for being a in reality, he was actually But he would go around and opinions on politics and he I like being in the garden.&quot; as a genius people said, That's very profound. And--or people would talk to and say--and people would bold and impetuous stare when know anything. subsequent impressions not just A little while ago there was a snipers killing people in everybody knew about it was It turned out there was no first incident somebody saw a this was reported in all the incident people started seeing So, they started looking for attending--attend to them. hugely when dealing with people how we interpret everything A second finding building on impressions very fast, and this is a literature known The idea is you don't have to impression of what they are. were actually done on teachers, So, university professors have could use this as a rough and students think of them. question that these people were Rosenthal and Ambady, were how long do you have to popular a teacher he is? a full class. full class? classes? half hour? around a person to see him, that person is? So, after clips of five seconds predicting what sort of have. evaluate people on &quot;The Big Well, you have a roommate and on &quot;The Big Five.&quot; with him or her. evaluate somebody on the five The answer is, After very brief exposures to at identifying them on &quot;The Big One of the more surprising orientation or &quot;gaydar.&quot; [laughter] interested in studying how long does it take to figure out Now, what they did was--they they set it up in a study where orientation was at issue. they may be people like you who one question along a very long orientation, being interviewed by somebody filmed, shown--who don't know you are And the finding is that people good at detecting sexual Everybody's good at it, than straight people, time. You see somebody for about a You're far from always right. better than chance but you are sexual orientation. together, thin slices and the means that just by a brief so much of how you're going to Now, we can look at this from We're talking about the how we perceive other people, also interested in the question as a result of being perceived So, one question is, perceive somebody as intelligent anxious or level-headed?&quot; &quot;What are the effects of being And psychologists have coined a prophesies, specifically is what's known as And the Pygmalion effect is if characteristic this might cause that characteristic. George Bernard Shaw and the quote here is &quot;The flower girl is not how she I shall always be a flower girl always treats me as a flower made into a better known movie, But I think that the same theme better movie, where a cold-blooded killer is affection and then she becomes a person, people but that--[laughter] point. empirical validity. Rosenthal and Jackson where they kids were really smart and other smart, huge jump or spurt in their IQ, trickery. random but the children who were expected to show a jump in IQ, their IQ scores and this isn't It's basically--if I am told genius is about to be in class and it's a small class as I'll focus more on you, attention. you,&quot; you'll suffer relative to And so the Pygmalion effect really matter. final--the issue of expectations story that could be told about story that could be told about And this is where I want to end psychology by talking about A lot of social psychology is how we think about human groups in the lecture on morality when dynamic pushing us to think in shown in the Robber's Cave study group research by Tajfel showing emotional standpoint it's not terms of &quot;my group&quot; versus &quot;your And this way of thinking has emotional life, and how we choose to distribute What I want to talk about here how we think about human groups. about stereotypes. often just is a bad word. be--is to have something wrong You might say it's not good to Psychologists tend to use the We tend to use the term to about categories and intuitions our frequency of certain And it turns out that categories is essential to our We see novel things all the of learning and making guesses, about these novel things we So, when you see this object chair and you recognize that you This apple is probably edible, a tail and eat me--eats me and These are all stereotypes about about dogs. logically true. a poison apple, but [laughter] And if you were suddenly generalizations, You wouldn't know what to eat, So, some sort of ability to generalizations is absolutely life. also categorize types of people. heads about men and women, adolescents or adults, Asians and so on. bad thing for a couple of First, some of these You might have positive groups. are unusually creative or You might have a particularly own group even if your own group group is people from France or such and so college. stereotypes. we collect stereotypes about the same way we collect like chairs and apples and dogs. accurate. ask people who is more likely to Jewish or someone who is who is likely to be taller, from Sweden, people can answer They have their stereotypes and the answers are not Their answers are often correct lets us make reasonable and the world. about stereotypes but there's One problem is that they're not couple of factors that could One is what we talked about impressions, which is a If you believe that homosexuals that gay men are effeminate, you see future gay men. man, you'll probably say, theory.&quot; effeminate, you might ignore it after all. criminals, then when you see a you'll chalk it down as support evidence that white men are not criminals. scientist objectively scanning Rather, you'll be biased in You'll be biased to put extra your theory and diminish cases Furthermore, reliable. example of this at work. classical music there's a less proficient than men: they don't have the same force techniques, they're more If you asked somebody who was a &quot;Look. I'm not being biased at all.&quot; have blind auditions where a screen so you can't tell or for that matter, whatever. women get hired far more is A, has a real negative and unfair A second problem is - what I before this - is some of our lot of the information about the The media would include also include plays and books and And to the extent these portray biased perception of the world that are faithful to the data not representative. for instance, there's Italian Americans on TV Sopranos, a mobster family. been upset at the portrayal of not a very nice guy. who want to foster more positive often put in representatives ways to make that point. television show Battlestar Okay. He's the star of &quot;Battlestar You don't know because you're In the original and I hate you. In the original &quot;Battlestar This was the main character transformed into a woman in the a sort of example of how interesting ways. of course, moral problems over So, it's fine to judge chairs stereotypes. of dogs. buy a greyhound instead of a pit gentle temperament, dog racist [laughter] it's a stereotype. more passive and gentle than pit I think it's a true stereotype nonetheless. comes to things like breeds of We have serious problems So, for instance, some of us would hold to that it is still immoral to apply The term for this would be Now, it gets complicated where we do allow stereotypes to When you all go and get did get driver's licenses you insurance premiums than I do. because young people like you with your reefer and your and so it is--now, a stereotype.&quot; a statistically robust one and It's an acceptable stereotype On the other hand, determined that people from Asia people from Europe? comfortable charging people from Almost certainly not. as to what sort of reasonable to make and what There's also a second problem. effects. effects. if people pull you over while black, on how you feel welcome in this on. more subtle and more interesting And this is some work done by and his colleagues at Stanford. &quot;stereotype threat.&quot; and this is the front of the Claude Steele made an Here is how to make black test. The finding is that if your negative stereotype associated domain, a stereotype threat and hence sorts of domains. group doesn't do good in this,&quot; member of that group immediately your performance will drop. do worse on math tests too, demonstrative effect. and morally fraught things. they often make certain levels of stereotypes and this There's &quot;public.&quot; One of the people running for president is black, asked people to raise their because being black or because automatically disqualified for few of you would raise your Those are your public Even if I was to ask you on a you might deny it because you anonymous. Private is what you really Some of you--some of the are not going to vote for black but they won't tell you That's common sense. below even that there may be work that people don't actually thoughts about race, So, here are some data about This is the proportion of vote--they would vote for an What's interesting is answer in the United States was Now, it is as close to one it. This is also public stereotypes respondents endorsing each Now, it's infinitesimal. could be dismissed as people making jokes or just being stunningly superstitious high And so, there's been a profound public views, views? Here is a simple study. you might do here at Yale. for instance, screen and you'll be given like &quot;hos-&quot; and you have to fill What you don't know is that pictures of white faces are they're being flashed on the don't even know you're seeing Still this has an effect. subjects are more likely to fill while whites more likely to fill I will now welcome you to implicit attitudes. Banaji who used to be at Yale university in Boston [laughter] attitudes test and it's the ever done in terms of people. A million people have could just go online, you could do it yourself. If you did it in the lab or on you would do it by pushing We'll do it by speaking. You're going to see things over be words or they're going to be If it's an African American or I want you to shout out &quot;right.&quot; good word, I want you to shout People ready. possible without making any [laughter] person we're going to try that [laughter] Are you ready? That is &quot;congruent,&quot; congruent that people, both African have biases to favor white Americans. Well, we compare it. Now, it's different. bad word, say &quot;right.&quot; a good word, say &quot;left.&quot; Okay. people did equally well but tens of thousands of times and computer screen. but they'll alternate and to shift around and everything. version people are slower at suggesting that their the other. for all sorts of ways looking at looking at the connection men and math, attitudes towards people who thin, attitudes towards people who are gay, these studies and it'll give you implicit attitudes that we have Well, a legitimate question is I mean, if you do the--If you study, it turns out that there view white Americans as positive negative but it shows up in half Who cares? this. in your life where half a second So, studies with police split-second choices on who to stereotypical attitudes play a to shoot when they're holding an unclear. it could be that these implicit judgment calls. decision to make, You have no explicit racist don't, but the argument is that your behavior in all sorts of Here is one example. experiment where somebody is in You hear a scream from outside white person. only person around. other people around you. the Bystander effect that in likely to help in, multiple? And in fact, about everybody helps regardless trouble but when you're with difference. things are not done with members They're done with the standard you and these--and if you were &quot;Oh. the person's black.&quot; &quot;Well, I didn't think it was There were other people around. we know by looking at it that difference. and this was done by my here, Jack Dovidio, looked at how people judge to recommendations. confusing thing. Americans. Americans. have strong recommendations. recommendations in 1989 you're and this is not a difference at But when their recommendations call, the subjects are hire the white American than the Nineteen eighty-nine was a long showed up in 1999. about a year and a half ago. that people are explicit It does show that people make a difference in their A way to put this all together automaticity theory, The idea is that everybody These are automatically contact with individuals. stereotyped fashion, them down, them, and that's possible, It takes work both at the work at the group level. this? Student: [inaudible] It's a good question. and disturbing and I said there individual and group level and be more explicit about that. We have job searches and searches involve the faculty tossing out names and we use further discussion. person? What we do now in the a special point of trying to get not with an eye towards an rather because there's a lot of who are just as qualified don't some sort of procedure to do it. A lot of journals do blind evidence I talked about before that whether it has a male name difference. group level in that they're not prejudices by trying harder.&quot; &quot;Let's set up a system so that blind auditions, being a beautiful example of At an individual level, and I'm not exactly sure what we should do is be conscious of not enough to say, racist so I'll give everybody a might have biases and to work not by overcorrecting in some you're interested for instance some system that these absent knowledge of race or sex. Student: [inaudible] Yes. How much of this is due to is due to an own-group bias? the experiments as I have extent ambiguous. favor white Americans over black stereotypes but they also might I think the answer is that both effects are due to stereotypes favoritism. is in studies like the IAT, African Americans show much the So, African Americans also are and in favor of white Americans, group favoritism though that Okay. the rest of this class on a Here's a summary. mystery. in explaining it. mystery. Sleep is a motivation. drink. I won't get into definitions of cause somebody tremendous pain sleeping. is what you want to do like when eat. average--from the beginning of average more than eight hours of That's good. There is a sort of school of A sleep macho used to be &quot;I sleep a night.&quot; eleven hours.&quot; Who gets on average more than On average more than six? since the beginning of the night? Anybody of you that has been night? There is big individual people need and sleep itself is on but it's very hard to study of it because you can't ask it because they're sleeping so One such clever method is an You bring somebody in the sleep scalp and you see what activities you get in the brain. showing irregular beta waves and great intellectual focus. Some of you are awake but non giving you these large, Some of you are sound asleep, [laughter] following stages. period when you're falling We call that stage I. deeper, II through IV, high amplitude delta waves, IV you start going up again, Then REM sleep emerges, REM sleep is neat because your but - and I'm going to talk a this later - you're relaxed, that's where your--the name then on a good night's sleep cycles and it looks like this. down, down, and then you come cycle, again, again, So, the general takeaway types of sleep. &quot;quiet sleep.&quot; slowly you're hard to wake up. Your brain is active as if you similar to waking, oh, men get erections and you One sleep researcher joked that what happens is dreams fly then their erections serve as [laughter] [laughter] we--why aren't we always awake? this. body is worn out during the day back into shape. producing hormone goes through organs get restored, your immune system seems to be and in fact, wonder what happens if you'd not one discovered in the recorded in different cases. You don't die in some dramatic You get sick and then you die, good to keep you healthy. about is that your--when you it--for repairs, the first thing you do is you engine. so you can then work on repair. emerged to preserve energy and night. not incompatible. all and this probably explains There are sleep disorders. I just list a few of them here. could happen to you when you're One particularly trendy sleep recently are side effects of So, one of the bizarre side Ambien while sleeping go refrigerator and eat huge [laughter] Ambien that's quite serious is compulsion while they're which is not good. What we're really interested in dreams. People--you've all studied That's all I know but basically he was deciding--he--I wrote He was deciding whether or not up two lists. himself were &quot;the slings and &quot;a sea of troubles,&quot; and &quot;the natural shocks that flesh is He only had one argument not to Nightmares. for in that sleep of death what shuffled off this mortal coil He was worried about nightmares. fascinated people and If you take a philosophy questions about dreams that you One is &quot;Are you dreaming right So, Rene Descartes famously doesn't exist. dream. And can you be immoral in a We do all sorts of things in Are these sins? philosophers like Augustine can you sin in a dream? You are not dreaming right now, you're--and you can't usually be The exceptions are lucid dreams about, and then possibly you encourage bad habits of thought. Well, first there's a between real dreams versus sleep So, real dreams are you're in a while your grandmother looks Those are real dreams. thing you get typically before &quot;did I take the garbage out, did I take the garbage out?&quot; kind of rumination and you could So, if you're woken up during be thinking &quot;Did I take while I was dreaming I was if you're woken up during REM, grandmother,&quot; and that sort of [laughter] What do people dream about? dreams. Not everybody remembers their If you want to remember your dreams--keep a dream diary, but everybody dreams three to That depends on how much sleep memories. This is why a dream diary or as soon as you wake up turns out What do people dream about? the way to find that out is you have--psychologists and dream reports. a guy named Hill collected you could make some Most dreams are bad. bad, they're not nightmares, scale of one to ten with five on the negative side. People in tribal societies have aggression than people in Men have more aggressive dreams Americans have more aggressive Yeah. What do people want to dream Well, psychologist--the to surprise you. romance and adventure. with strangers. Turns out that once you get adolescence about 10% of dreams What's the most common dream? Falling. Falling is among the top dreams Somebody else. Also close. Good phobic dream but not it. [laughter] Excellent. Evolutionary psychologists and puzzled over this one. dream but the dream about being Has anybody here ever dreamt of remember? Being chased is the big one. [laughter] [laughter] No. There are Freudian theories fulfillment and other things. these. that dreams are a side effect of body, rebuilds itself while you're while you're sleeping is your over again to consolidate them brain. is backing up a computer. In the course of backing itself events flash to consciousness coherent story. dreams serve no adaptive they're epiphenomena. another system. this is a true mystery. I got interested in this as a watching my own children laugh is that made them laugh. Zachary, pretty young but this is not the youngest record I found this on the web. [laughter] It's a huge puzzle. view, people's pursuit of sex not these huge mysteries, language and make sense of the groups, weird noise at bizarre and typical--typically explain this puzzle. here's a first guess I read in &quot;We laugh when there is expect and what we unless the outcome is [laughter] It is about as wrong as possible way. The first thing is it doesn't So, why should a cause people to make a of staccato segments of one separated by a fifth of a It doesn't explain why we make with incongruity. incongruity causes laughter. there as you walked in, wouldn't shriek with laughter [laughter] isn't caused by incongruity so a there's nothing incongruous in So, laughter is kind of a We don't know why we laugh. laugh. ten years there's been some A lot of the work is done by this in his excellent book decided to do something that world has done. his students to different places observe when people laughed and And this is the first theory of laughter. could separate people--you could laughter from the question of a Most of what people--what made a joke or humorous. laughter-initiated situations comments that initiated sometimes uproarious laughter, &quot;I'll see you guys later.&quot; It's Andre.&quot; &quot;I know.&quot; &quot;I try to lead a normal life.&quot; [laughter] where it wasn't particularly &quot;It wasn't you.&quot; Only ten percent of the later on as people--as actually And these included &quot;Poor boy [laughter] good workout,&quot; &quot;Did you find that in your a reference to dormitory food, pulling back skin in the [laughter] separate the question of what do we know about laughter? that--remember we're trying to biologists here. trait. laughter. in those clips. What does it do? what's it an accident from? And there are some properties It's social and communicative. Because it's loud. Hunger can be silent. message to other people but when loud noise - the reason why communicate with other people. form of involuntary noisemaking That's another interesting One of the great discoveries in invention of the laugh track. lot funnier because people laugh groups. remark is an attempt to pre-technological attempt to Children are particularly of laughter, but just in if you hear somebody laughing, it's the sort of thing that Other primates do it to some when they do it. When monkeys get together to a kind of a laughing noise and tickle each other. tickling? tickling is touching parts of You sort of attack somebody and it's--but if somebody's trying this is so funny.&quot; You have to realize that this you're simulating attack. of mock aggression and It's basically--it's like a attack. sense that when people laugh kidding around. maybe they're tickling each of each other, themselves, and there's some Most laughter is inspired by but it's attenuated and it's And the laughter is a signal And collective aggression--a executions, lynchings, sound of laughter. something terribly aggressive like you're at risk you might to other members of your group what you're doing together. it--and none of this is going to decisive theory. at different ideas but another proposed by Plato, of bonding against a common It's a sound of group cohesion Comedians have not missed the Dave Barry writes: truth of all is that to really have to have perspective. ancient Greek words, that happens to someone else and somebody like Donald [laughter] something bad happening but not Mel Brooks puts it in somewhat distinguishing between comedy cut my finger. open sewer and die.&quot; [laughter] is there has to be a target who It could be an enemy. It could be yourself. serious that it elicits strong grief or pity. banana peel and lands on his not overcome by compassion. there's blood everywhere, I don't like him or something. And this is why the humor--why sort of damage involving things sex, scatology, pie in the face, something, So, empathy, but instead there's the and there has to be some level This is what--this is where the which is you couldn't predict some aspect of that was what what elicited the laughter. laughter for Zachary was Winnie the Pooh and the climbed on a high bunch of down on him. He was just kind of stunned. Final question for anybody &quot;Why can't we tickle Now, I've talked about laughter each of the occasions when I like this somebody came up to me &quot;But I can.&quot; And [laughter] sincere but if people say, people here will own up to being One? It's a fascinating question why The general story of why we there's no surprise, and also there may be a general I'm going to end with the final Think of an interesting dreams or laughter. detail as you want. one sentence long but it could I will ask the teaching fellows most interesting remarks. winner will win some small food nature. I'll see you all on Wednesday.