So this is all new for me. I've been a passenger for almost 40 years. I haven't done this and today we're gonna go with a crew Good morning, we're going behind the scenes today at Qatar Airways operation center Hi, good morning and welcome to our Qatar Airways Operations Centre. We've got over 1,000 crew reporting this morning for over 91 flights that are going within our first wave. As you can see, the crew are arriving here at the Cataways Operations Center, where the cabin crew and flight deck will drop their luggage for their respective flight. and then proceed to their respective dispatch or briefing room. Where are you flying today? Atlanta, Alabama Atlanta, where are you flying today? Today. Amsterdam. Amsterdam Morning, how are you doing? Good. I'm flying to London Gatwick today. Where are you flying to? New York New York. Morning, LA. L.A. So once the crew, as I alluded to before, have dropped their bag or checked their bag in, they'll then come here, the cabin crew, and report for duty. This will then tell our operations team whether the crew member is here or not and whether we need to find another crew member for whatever the reason may be in order to operate the flight. The flight deck will proceed through to Flight Dispatch, which is just to the right of me here, and we'll take you there shortly. So after the flight deck have dropped their baggage for their respective flight, the gentlemen or ladies will proceed here. The captain, first officer or a four-man crew, depending on the length of flight, conduct their operational briefing here where they print off the operational flight plan, check the weather and the dispatch of the flight. They'll then proceed to the aircraft. So I'm at the table, QRA 26 today, operating in Bangkok with First Officer Paul Mirror. Give us a rundown, what's it like here? Okay, when I come here, I need to check in first and take the document. After that, I will check the flypan and print the flypan and bring it to here and wait for the captain. Ah, you're waiting for the captain now, and then to discuss the flight plan. You're waiting for the cow Yeah, and then Yeah, this is the flightplan, waiter, and no time, and along the route have the tablet or not, and everything about the fuel, yeah. And what airplane are you flying? 787? 787, that's it. So any cabin crew that have reported and may require any additional grooming checks or any grooming additional help should we say, can come to our Grooming and Standards Room here within the Qatar Airways Operations Centre. So would you look at this, we have last minute with ironing, yeah, you have a lots of stuff here. Yeah, we have a changing room, we have actually some uniforms that we actually borrow to the crew members. Right, right. In case somebody lose the button. If there is a button damage, the uniform accidentally got damaged and we have changing room that they can actually look for changing, that's the area we have to look for. We have a lot of uniforms, some uniforms are left on board. We have quick fix items, if you want a quick touch up, nail polish, makeup. Wow, it's been a lot of standard here. Yes, maintaining the level. Yeah. So I came down to this hallway. All the crew has checked in and reported. Now I'm coming to one of the briefing rooms here. They're inside, talk about their flights before going out to the plane and let's join them together. Hello, good morning, good morning. Where are we flying to today? Atlanta. That's exciting. 777? Yes. 777. Okay. So I'll be your guest here. I'll be listening to a little bit of your breathing, if I may. Good morning once again, guys, all of you. How are you? Fit to fly? Listos. Okay, all your passport, legal documents with you, right? Service items, everything is with you? Okay, we'll start our briefing first with introduction. My name is Khadija. I'm from Lebanon. Hi, my name is Yusliana. I can call me Yana for short. I'm from Malaysia, 10 years. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, please. I come from Malawi. Hi, good morning. I come from Tunisia I'm from the Philippines. Philippines do, huh? Swaziland I'm from India. Good morning, I'm Cindy from the Philippines. Good morning, I'm from India. Sagar from India. Good morning from China. I'm from South Korea. I'm from... India. Turkey. We're going to Atlanta, QR755, Bravo Alpha Golf. This is the registration of the aircraft. As you can see, the flight is full, 41291. This is the load for this flight. And then after this you will have one infant, you will have around 15 wheelchairs, 26 children in economy and 3 children at the back. in business class and one infant in economy, two platinum in economy, and of course you'll have all the other gold members, silver and burgundy will be all of them there. As you can see, we have a lot of wheelchairs also. Let's assist the wheelchair infant. We don't have a lot of infants. It's good for us at least, but please be ready with the infant life jacket. And after this, we'll start boarding. Let's assist and speed up the boarding. At least we can close the door and start pushback and we can do whatever we can do on the ground. Where do the boys go? For the boarding, please be present in the cabin, assisted with the special handling with the baggage. Please close the overhead bin when it's full so that they won't be struggling to look for the space in the overhead bin, yeah? And this 777, the overhead bin is quite heavy, if you need help, please call one of your colleagues or ask the customer to assist you. And make sure the overhead bin is fully closed because we don't want anything to open during take-off and landing, okay? So this is all new for me. I've been a passenger for almost 40 years. I haven't done this. And today we're going to go with a crew. They're coming out of the exit to join the crew on the crew bus to see how they go on the airplane. Hello, hello, Fly-O-Lanta! Hi everyone. Wow. Say hi to the camera. R2A, Amin R1, Mia L2A, Carmen right? L2 and Shanice R2. Just heard you assigning door positions, right? How did you assign that? Is it a computer assignment or you manually assigned to each group? It's manually assigned, but you can see we have the truly spare. I read the position first. I will check that through what her position was there. And after this, I will be back. Uh-huh. And after this And that's where the jumpsuit, that's where they sit at each door. Yes. Because everybody is responsible for different position and different role. Because everybody has I'm with one of the crew. Apparently you were on standby last night. You got pulled out. So what time did you get a call to come out and do business? Yeah. I'll go with this. So actually my standby started from 4 a.m. until 12. and then I turned on my alarm at 3.50. And then I got the message at 3.59. That you are operating Atlanta Yeah, I was like, wow, okay. Yeah, you want to stand? Yeah, you're on standby. You never know where you're flying. Never know. Yeah Here we just arrived at our aircraft with all the crew together. And here all the crew went upstairs boarding the flight to Atlanta. But however, we're going to stay a little bit longer at the Operations Center to explore. So the crew all boarded inside a 777, and I'm here on the ram, almost about half an hour. All the planes are still here. Nothing's been happening. It's quiet. yup. Okay, so we have the 91 departures in the morning, of which 50 are between 8 o'clock and 9 o'clock. Because you can see now, it's now 20 to 8, so still 20 minutes to go. We do have conflicting schedules, where we have a lot of aeroplanes that need to push back at the same time, whereby we use airport collaborative decision making in order to sequence the traffic depending on the time they need to depart. Well that's my first time I heard about something called Airport Collaborative Decision Making. What exactly is that? RACDM is just about building the picture in order to sequence the traffic. So behind me here you can see there's nine or eight aeroplanes ready to push. That will be sequenced in order to release them one by one. The airport seems changed very fast here. For the whole hour, we were crazy busy, plane spotting, catching all the aeroplanes departing out of here. And look, the whole airport now is empty. We're going to hop back to the operations centre for more now. This is our Qatar Airways Integrated Operations Centre. as you can see from the video wall behind me i think we've got 572 flights today we've departed 157 of which 98 have departed from doha In this room, they're making key decisions for both our commercial operation and the cargo operation to ensure our customers' and crews' safety at all times. There's pretty serious stuff going on here. Phone call left and right. It's like the nerve centre of the operation, right? And see, this is like a flight tracker map here. So all the aeroplanes, Qatar Airways flight is on the map. That's all 159 aircraft in the air, currently airborne at the minute. Yep. Right. One is just landing because it was 160. currently airborne. right. So out of all the desks, there's a guy sitting in the middle. He must be a very important guy making decisions in the middle, right? Yep, so this is Umit today. So he's our Senior Manager, IOC. So he's the most central figure within IOC and the most responsible on duty. Umit, do you want to tell us about what's been happening today? Today, actually, we are facing a couple of weather issues in northern Pakistan, which caused by fog and it was below our landing limits. Especially per shower, for example, was below the limits for the entire night and we do have a window which we can land now in the noontime. We have already made our B plan in case we diverge to Islamabad. In this case, we are considering Islamabad right now. Everybody is aware, including the captain. We're over here now at IOC Flight Watch, this is part of the dispatch function. These guys are looking predominantly at supporting the crew when they're on route with weather, any air route closures, anything that's impacting the flight from a dispatch point of view. There is one flight, Milan-Chicago, and we got information from the captain there that there is some in-route changes in the routing. So we have provided the new flight plan to the aircraft. Also, we are monitoring all these flights in terms of weather issue ahead. So, there is a turbulence area ahead of all these flights, so we will provide the information regarding this turbulence area to the aircraft. also we are monitoring all these flights in terms of lateral deviation vertical deviation and if there is a deviation that time so we will ask the captain if there is any systems required and in case if there is any assistance required we run the flight plan and do whatever we need and we will provide the information to the crew. So I'm with Supri here, the network manager, he's monitoring many flights, he's watching. So the one we are interested in is QR755, which Sori took off to Atlanta. So where is QR755 right now? Well QR 755 is in the Turkey FIR as of now and it's cruising at 30,000 feet Uh-huh. it has actually taken a fuel of 101 tons 101 tons of fuel yet Yes. Wow. No issues so far? All smooth sailing? No issues so far, there's no messages from the crew, so everything is fine. No medicals, nothing, looks like it's going to be smooth It's going to be a smooth flight and we have more 11 hours to go. Okay, fine, yeah. This one just came in, Sam. We have a flight in Riyadh, QR 1171. Apparently, the left-hand main landing gear actuator has been broken. So we have approximately 350 passengers, it's a full flight, they don't have spares available in Riyadh. So now the next available option is we need some to send the spares from Doha on the next flight to Riyadh. So that would be around 11.20 UTC. So maintenance are now preparing to source the spares in Doha, they're going to do the packing, send it on a rush tag on the next flight to Riyadh and they're going to fix it. So they're going to take around three to four hours once they get the spares in hand and once it's fixed, we can get the passengers back to normal. So now I came to flight dispatch because I have a flight to catch tonight. It's gonna be behind the scenes, go on the A380, see how the crew operate. But first, let's look at this match from Doha to Bangkok. So what's the weather looks like? What's, how's our route looks like? Yeah, we have run multiple routes today and the most optimum route is the one that we have selected today, going towards UAE and then towards north of India and then south of Bay of Bengal, direct to Bangkok. And we plan to alternate as Kuala Lumpur, which our aircraft can handle and return back as soon as possible. So you don't have any much of severe turbulence except for the initial part of it. And then you'll have a little bit of a bumpy ride over here and then after that it's clear weather And if you go and check the weather actually if you see in the Bangkok weather, it's wind is northerly 360 And there's no rain at all. Good. It's the dry season. It's clear days. Good. Nice one to fly tonight. Yes. I want to document how the crew are preparing for the flight. Are we doing a flight to Bangkok? How many crew tonight operating? Twenty-five minutes. Today we had a little minor defects before departure. So that you're gonna be prepared for the breakfast. Hi, welcome to the secret place. I'm going to tell you about how many crew bunk we have on Airbus A380. Together on the YouTube soon there's that we shout out. Thank you so much, have a great day.