Food is like my best friend. Can I have some juice, Miss Vee? When I eat it, take the stress away. That's what I do to help me cope with I need a roller cart. Right. To have to get one. I know that the food is unhealthy and it's had so long, it's hard to change that. So I'm disappointed in myself for letting But, you know, you can't change the past. Hello. How y'all doing. Now? How are you doing? Good. So, Natalia, good to see you again. Yes, sir. So you brought someone new with And who is this young man with you? This is my fiancee, Duane. All right. Nice to meet you, Duane. Well, it says here in the chart that you pounds, and now you're 631 pounds. And how long have you been in this motorized About five years. Okay. So things have gotten worse for you. So now how motivated you are to change your your life and how motivate you to give up I'm very motivated. So what are you willing to do? I'm willing to make a change. That's why I came here. Well, you came here before, and you were And in the past five years, you haven't made What is different today? Tell me, Because I finally have a great Like, I never just really just reached out my own. And I recently just reached out to They really came through. And then like meeting him, coming into my loved me, loved me like I don't have to quit So I just look forward to losing his way I want to have my own child, like, and start All right. So you know what? No more weight for you should be. What is what I should with my height. What is it? 160? 170. Now, can you close your eyes and imagine Be by my side. Yeah. And you know, you have a BMI of over Bmi is 18 to 25. And that's very happy in mine. And as young as you are, your body has been But that's going to change here soon. And you keep getting like you have all that your system. You're not going to live that Okay. So it's going to be a challenge for have any more time to waste. Latonya So the changes have to start now. And after the diet, the most important thing People that are in motorized wheelchair, in a wheelchair, so you need to get out of So we will set you up some physical therapy Okay. So tell me, what is your eating habit you usually start eating? I wake up at like 1030 and I might eat What do you usually eat? Bacon, eggs, grits. Are you hungry in the morning? No, sir. But if you aren't hungry, you don't But the doctor told me that if I don't eat Is high or low or something like that. Okay, Let me tell you one thing. Everybody's going to confuse you, but you thing. Eat less. Yes. Okay. There's no confusion with that. Okay. Now, if you really put the math belongs for next four years ahead of time, Okay, I got you. So if you are PS600, you can easily lose 60, Yeah. Yeah. So how much weight do you think I would have I'm going to give you a month, and I want you So if you stick to the diet I gave you, that You think you can do that? I can do it. All right, great. Thank you. This is going to be hard. Nobody said it's going to be easy. You have to be determined and you have to be We're going to give you instruction, but those. I gave you that before, but then you So hopefully this time it's different. Okay. Since seeing Doctor now, it really kind of live, then you have to make some changes. So he wanted me to lose 40 pounds and I think I happy because lately Doctor now is sending exercises. And you're all going to work out. Oh, I hope she don't have me doing it too I need to take my medicine. Come on in, Mika. Hey, hey, Hey, you. Hey, sexy. How are you? Ooh, baby. If I can get as fine as you. Honey, Baby. Ooh. Stop. How are you feeling? I'm exhausted, but I'm good. My legs look like an apple. Okay, baby, I'm okay. I am proud of Lithuanian. How far she's come. At first she was lazy. Exhale one. Good. Two. Good. Three. Batangas habits have gotten better. Believe it or not, she is watching what But my concern is the physical. She's not really exercising like she needs Nine. I don't think LaTonya works out when pushing her to exhaustion. But the pain in her leg, she shouldn't be Well, hopefully with the work that we do and whole lot better. Five, six. Seven, eight, nine, ten. I quit. Nine times. The worker. This is my first time having to chair. But about me being in pain today in So the band. I'll be ready next time. All right. Thank you. See you later. Give me a hug. You see it? I feel it up here. It's kind of. And got my leg, the blood So it was awesome. After I worked out like that, I worked up a So when I'm done, I'm ready for something There's fish, right? Yeah. I hope this ain't tilapia Fish like. I don't ever cook tilapia. I cooked it for you, but I don't think fried I won't eat a whole lot just to taste, you For lunch today, we had some fish and some It wasn't too healthy today. But, you know, she really is trying really Tonya cheats on her diet, but not much as I gained, well, PS4 because basically, I'm I got to try harder. This is something new for me. I've been eating unhealthy for so long and It's kind of. It's a lot, but I know it's worth it. Okay, so what are you trying to tell me? You came here last time. We gave you exercises to follow with out of your chair. And you didn't do that. And you were supposed to lose PS40 over the And instead of waking up to things, you're pain. Yeah, you should have pain because you this motorized wheelchair, you don't want to You don't want to give up your eating habit. Come on. You were supposed to lose weight. You were supposed to change anything. You were supposed to call if you had any You keep eating too much and you want to It's been five years since you tried to get because you're lying so much to yourself. You believe that you lie, you keep repeating Life doesn't come true now. Obesity began when I was 12 years old. I lost my mom at the age of 12, so I stayed. How did your mom pass? She had a heart attack. Okay. After my mom died, I went with my sister The woman that he moved in with her. And my mom was friends, like. So you disapproved? Yeah, I did. Were you. Were you mad at your dad? Yeah, I wasn't mad. I'm never going to forget it. But I forgive him for it. But I still have. That little girl that's still deep down in Yeah. And what's her question? Her question is, why was it so easy? To walk away. Like, what did I do? I was only a child. Yeah, it seems like maybe there's still out. I want you to journal a little bit Get them straight in your own head, and then Yes, sir. Sharing your feelings can be coping strategies like overeating. Yeah. It's so good to talk to you. You too. I'm really glad you made it in. And I'm feeling positive about your future. Likewise. Thank you. Dawn called about an hour ago to tell me that Last time she came down, she complained severe was wrong with her. This time, she says, the pain is even worse, out. So I told her to come to the hospital Hello. How are you doing? Tired of hiding. Come here. I'm following you. Come on. As far as I can tell, that she's having a lot thinks that her legs are hurting because But looking at her just from the past, we wrong with her. So we're going to bring her I can do it. Okay. What I did. And the witness helping. How are you not having chest pain or Shortness of breath. You should have. Okay, We'll look at the monitor and get some And we gotta see what's going on with you, Okay. I don't doubt she has some swelling is because she's probably over PS600 and that We have run another test on Latanya, and But so far there is nothing concerning with She doesn't have a blood clot. She said that was her main concern, but she I am concerned about her heart. Some of the tests are a little concerning Some of the tests show that her heart may be I'm aggravated. I'm hurting. I can't breathe in here. We got that Ray, and she's up to 642. So she has not made any progress and So I'm concerned about the strain she has on out. So I'm going to keep her here for a on her heart. We have had an attorney here last couple of weeks. She came to the hospital because she was here. We have had her on a controlled diet too cooperative. Most days she tells me get out of the bed. So she tries to avoid that. And we have had a dietician work with her to But she argued with them and disagreed with So it hasn't been easy with her, but we have weeks. So her weight is down from 642 to So with that on top of some medication, we critical place it was when she arrived. But her whole body is sitting very close to And if she doesn't continue to lose a lot critical again very fast. Hey, looking. Hey, Dr. Nair. How you doing? How you doing today? I'm okay. All right. Did the physical therapy come work Yes, sir. Did Dietician come talk to you? Yes, sir. Can you talk to her about the food Well, I don't know why you don't like the Show me what they brought to you. These are interesting. That's good. Good Lunch. Don't eat it. Don't eat beans at all. I don't even know what that is. And this looks like dog food. You don't like meat? I don't eat stuff like this. That's good nutrition, that good protein. I mean, I don't eat beans at all. But how about the meat? I don't eat that kind of meat. I haven't really ate nothing since I been You're not going to feel that way. You're going to be fine. I still have to eat something. No. It isn't the food that belongs to the next So if you don't eat, you're going to be all Okay. Now, the echocardiogram show on the overstrained. Okay. Your heart is overstrained because of your And your lung capacity is restricted because So this is a time for you to learn what the You can't go back to your what you like to food. Yes, sir. We got your heart at a critical place over But if you don't keep losing weight, your very quickly again. So change and learn what to do at home eating habit that you're not losing weight. You agree with that? Yes, sir. So is it time to learn what Okay. Yes, sir. So you can easily lose PS60 in two and a half Okay. So no excuses, because you're running Okay. Okay. So we will discharge you here soon to get Okay? Okay. All right. Thank you. All right. I'll see you later. Okay. Bye bye. Hopefully the momentum we have given LaTonya last couple of weeks will be enough to but she doesn't have a lot of time to keep She either loses weight and keep it all to body or her situation is going to get happen where she doesn't make it. So she's going to have to start taking this well for LaTonya.