It's a procession A slightly solemn unboxing. But here, we don't open simple These are crocodile parts, So the most expensive bags. From 4000 to 6000 EUR for the basics, up to 40,000 for the rarest. The price of vintage bags can It took several months to collect all these items. Leather goods, silk scarves, accessories. Twice a year they organize around a single brand, Hermes. The &quot;Haut a Courroies&quot; which is a large which, originally, was used to put, his boots, his bomb and his riding crop Hermes, just mention this name In the auction room in Paris, but also on the phone 22000. We are at 22000. As expected, prices are soaring. It's for you. There will even be a record at EUR54,000 It may seem insane, we don't buy a scarf or a bag, we buy more. The brand is magic. The word Hermes... Luxury, beauty. Grace, elegance. All objects have a story, but And it's a bit of that story H for Hermes. Almost all of us have if only in the street, But how many have already crossed And who knows that behind the leather who has reigned over the brand for 180 years? Because Hermes is an exception. In the luxury sector, it is one Yes we know each other ! The other French dynasties, they, But are the Hermes still going Because for a year, they face an offensive LVMH, headed by Bernard Arnault. But investigate this lineage, it's like wanting to open a box of Hermes cultivate discretion even more in front of a camera. So we had to wait and surround himself with lawyers, journalists, economists or novelists, to tell the unfolding family saga Appointment is given to us in Pantin, It's in this little street, that Hermes has installed his workshops. Exceptionally, the management Guillaume de SEYNES supervises The man likes to talk about the finishes of these sewn saddler who made It's that two-needle seam, manual of course, with a linen thread and which gives hence the quality of the Hermes object, the quality of Hermes The quality. An obsession for this brand which And not just in leather. Because Hermes is also The famous scarf, a few grams of silk Hermes is a luxury multinational The brand weighs 24 billion euros But Guillaume de SEYNES is not He's an heir member of the sixth generation Hermes. It is a peculiarity of the company. Our conviction is that this company, owes its success to the fact And to this coherence, this continuity in which is really essential A group built on blood ties. A fierce will of the founders, for almost two centuries. We are in 1837. Thierry Hermes, a German craftsman, and opens a modest workshop And very quickly, he and his son it is necessary to target the most affluent clientele. They decide to implant themselves in the heart of Haussmann's Paris. A stone's throw from the Elysee Palace, and the new Opera Garnier. 24 rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore. The store will become And the brand will be transmitted Except that in 1930, the leader only have daughters. He fears that the case will disappear. So he will give the keys Three branches still at The Puechs, the Dumas, and the Guerrands. Yann Kerlau dissects the DNA of the great dynasties And for him, the patriarch at the time, wanted to preserve the brand, by teaching these newcomers When you are a son-in-law from the outset we have a duty of excellence. He passed them through he taught them the trade, and then he listened to them each other capable At the helm of the company, the three sons-in-law will do and accelerate its transformation. After the luggage with they are developing ready-to-wear. Make way for hunting clothes, horseback riding, skiing. But the one who actually goes he is a young thirtysomething who takes Jean-louis Dumas, a descendant a savvy businessman like here in this report, talk story Jean-louis Dumas has an intuition. We must transform the family SME Come, come in. Bertrand Puech, his cousin, remembers It was in the late 70's and at the time, It was necessary that, on the spot, people want Hermes And so, there was a lot of work, development of Hermes stores In fifteen years, Jean-Louis Dumas will open And he has another idea, relaunch a flagship product of the brand, the Silk Square. Sales are booming. Customers flock Their husbands in their wake. And the more expensive it is, the more it sells. They skillfully convinced the client, And in the same way, we explain to you we'll have to wait six months, since the list Result, Jean-Louis Dumas and his family A family that until now but who could very quickly For while the business prospered, More and more numerous. The breakup of the clan is a danger which is a family group. It's not a question of passing generation, The risk is that the cousins and therefore that the case be controlled one day So Jean-Louis Dumas will try He wants the family to be unable He then asks Philippe Ginestie to write the new statutes. It is a company whose statutes, only family members It's the family that controls Jean-louis Dumas is therefore certain Intoxicated by success, he will then board Hermes take a turn many years later. 1993, the Hermes take over They go public. We are completely self-funded, we would be happy 20% of capital This is the first time that foreigners But no one sees a threat Now all family members when they want. Stephane Sylvestre knows He is a lawyer. For him, Hermes does not have enough before going public. stock market interest, it is precisely to be able It's actually not the ultimate weapon. And that's exactly Many sell their shares, others for cash On each franc at the beginning I had to pay the taxman EUR2.20. I had to find them since I couldn't I sold capital for Result, in the following years, nearly 10% more escapes The heirs sell at the same time Bernard Arnault. A figure that transforms the sector Nothing escapes him. Wine, jewelry, fashion, with millions, the big names in the LVMH empire. He is someone who knows how to build who knows how to maintain them who knows how to use And beside that, On this, he has no qualms. Is it naivety? Hermes decides in any case to ignore Refusing to believe that the threat But overconfidence and the family It was a year ago, a year 2010 May 2010, after a long illness, Jean-Louis Dumas bows out. To a jazz fanfare tune, Hermes buries its captain. But no one in the family, is not ready to resume The brand is weakened, even though she will have to deliver It was October 23, 2010. Bertrand Puech, spokesperson remember perfectly It's 10 a.m., his cell phone rings. &quot;Bertrand Puech, hello, I got your number I wanted to tell you that you We bought some.&quot; I said, &quot;Yes, very well.&quot; Bertrand Puech still thinks that Bernard a handful of stocks. But 2 hours later, the press release falls. LVMH publicly announces that it holds, nearly 15% of Hermes. So we were very impressed this extreme delicacy. 15% overnight, without anyone Then, three days later, The news makes the rounds in the press The market is blown away. Nobody understood during the weekend, the way it was When we enter the capital we must declare that we are returning But there, they arrived at 14.5% without So how did Bernard Arnault do it? He just finished A very discreet approach which has We are in 2008, Thousands of shares are sold off Opportunist, Bernard Arnault sees But to limit the risks, it will act in two stages. LVMH does not buy directly He prefers to sign contracts They are the ones who buy the titles After two years, he can against a commission to the banks. And if the price has gone up, it It's a sublime poker move. Because the bet is winning. In two years, the share price Result, Bernard Arnault made while grabbing 17% without anyone As soon as the announcement was made, the Hermes clan We say to ourselves all the same he has a plan. So we put what his plan might be. To lay the cards on the table. Both in this Parisian hotel. A chilling interview. Hermes asks Bernard Arnault The Hermes family is in shock. For its great bourgeois LVMH is a nouveau riche It's absolutely amazing. What are they doing there? It's not even a question of money. We are from another world, and we don't have the same values. On the side of Bernard Arnault, this operation is peaceful. He does not ask to take power. In the fashion world, For them, it was simply enough If we want to have this heritage side well you have to be 100% I'm going to say a very vulgar thing. How to fuck while staying young It's hard to play the virgins when we took advantage of the scholarship And for the creator, Bernard Arnault, do not threaten But nothing will happen to them, It's a kind of fear of something He's a 100% businessman, but doing industrial stuff. It's not quite the same. According to our information, LVMH to sign a contract of trust But nothing helps. The heirs feel They want to protect their heritage, and what it brings them each year. So they organize the response. The family just decided more than 50% of its capital with very strict operating rules. In the statutes there is who bore his titles to sell in priority and without titles to another He will be the one who will have the right to look Can't sell now And therefore to allow Bernard Arnault Well, for now. If on the side of the bosses of Hermes, most observers There is no impregnable fortress, much higher. It will be necessary to see on the length, It will be necessary to see who one day will crack, I don't think this case is that Mr Arnault is a man who loves, half successes or half failures. And Bernard Arnault is a patient man. The businessman is now Him or his children. With great resources if by chance the situation In this war of attrition, Will Hermes lose on its ground, the one that the clan leaders have The weather.