I used different designs, manufacturing to recreate a homemade version from my childhood. The year is 1988 and Australians are enjoying Grabbing a snag or two with mates a ride on their local monorail. But six year old me has got bigger issues on his mind. Some of my favorite toys The yoyo was great it was weaponised. The metal inside slap bands was cutting kids wrists up and giving them tetanus. Hand blasters were living up to their name and taking kids fingers off. And even the seemingly innocent schoolyard classic, the marble was banned because kids But there was one banned toy I call it a Popball. You turn it inside out and drop it. Now available at all Leg pop, pocket pop, head pop, double pop. As far as I was concerned, The black colored ones were banned first, and urban myths surrounding Over 35 years later, and a lot of those or denied. That is, until I got in touch But where did Popballs originate anyway? Well, they've been around for a long time, Peter Fish's point of difference was the safety airhole. You can still buy cheap Unsurprisingly, they're pretty low quality to my memories from the 80s, Let's try recreating our own Popball in the workshop. I took some measurements, and read the scientific research I started with some 90A shore hardness Now this stuff is stretchy, A hardness scale. I picked up a cheap durometer so The new Popballs so I didn't hold much hope for the 90A TPU, but it was a logical place It printed fine, the supports removed but the filament was far too firm My first attempt was a failure. I also printed a sample so that I could Coincidentally, I learned with shore hardness and elongation traits This stuff was a limited release I added it to my vat and started printing. And let me tell you, It maxed out the VOCs on my air quality but my exhaust fan made it I had never printed with flexible resin, and some things to learn. After some research, and I was able to print I washed it, then removed any IPA with compressed air It felt like it was going to perform well, even though the shore hardness Monocure3D recommends post curing, so I did that inside There was no notable change but what had changed was the smell. The nail smelled like cherry, revert to its original shape, The resin wasn't elastic enough, my design would work So next up, I thought I would try some DIY I didn't include the hole in the pop ball to inject the rubber. Peter Fish had also told me performance of the pop ball. I'm using polyurethane rubber that I'm familiar It's easy to work with, has a good pot and most importantly I used a precision (jelly shot) syringe to inject the rubber into the mould. The following day, I removed the flashing Things were looking good, but I soon found that my mould design and I struggled to remove the Popball. But I got it out eventually I also poured a sample It turned out that the polyurethane rubber was softer than I expected, that pop. I made some minor revisions to my mould In my email exchange with Peter. He had revealed to me the real reason why the black colored Popballs I wasn't sure that I had the tools but I had an idea to add carbon to increase its hardness This industrial carbon is I started by adding 10% carbon If you're going to use this stuff, note and probably carcinogenic, so take care. I had made and I was a little concerned A day later and it did sit and came out fine. But the hardness was a little on the low side Despite it The hardness was lower than the plain but its elasticity was improved Surprisingly, I was on the right track. So I tried again and mixed but this time with less carbon The industrial Vegemite was much smoother, which gave me hope that it would perform after removing it from the mold. I trimmed it to clean it up It looked about right, but did it pop? It sure did, and it was a lot better than the previous version. It was at this point that Peter Fish was kind enough to mail me It looked like this was a promotional one, let's say, from the 90s, And boy, was this thing The sheer power It turned out that the Shore hardness Popballs, which make sense. Peter with me, which were fascinating. I took some measurements of the genuine Popball And it was about this time I discovered a company named Recreus Their 60A And it even comes with a disclaimer But I'm up for a challenge. The filament arrived all the way but Peter had doubts whether you could 3D print a Popball at all. I started by thoroughly drying the filament, My first print jammed the extruder gears, in order to get a print to finish. I slowed the machine down to just three time for this small design was 24 hours, The printer was severely under extruding. This led to multiple failed prints me scratching my head. But it turns out that some smart people had already solved the problem. There was actually a screw but you can't unscrew it So I made some modifications that would allow me to adjust the tension Then I shortened the Bowden tube to reduce resistance for the filament. And I rigged up a dodgy spool holder for a more direct filament path. And those changes and many slicer tweaks worked. There was still some under extrusion, I wasn't entirely happy but after weeks and many failed prints, After all that Would it pop? The action felt promising, so I set it... And it performed really well. It wasn't on par with the genuine but it definitely matched the performance I was content that I had recreated and learned Now, there was only one final thing to do. It was time to return the genuine pop ball Thanks, Peter.