For centuries, horses have captivated the hearts our way of life has been shaped by these versatile discover the powerful connection and partnership and I am on a quest to ride every Our first stop is in Germany, the country delicious baked goods, and charming UNESCO biosphere reserve. It is open to visitors Today, to help us with the quest, we are also the president of the European State Studs Good morning! It's so nice to meet you. Welcome yard. The house is from the 1600s. You needed good transportation, military horses, carriage and agriculture had to go on, and forestry they developed good stallions, and the stallions breeding progress. Sure, it's like This is one of the important personalities in during and after the Napoleonic Wars in Europe. and there he got to know the Arabian horse. He was stud farm. After he died, his family took In the world crisis of 1932, they couldn't them to Marbach. This is the famous silver herd of and one from the old dam line of the because the Bedouins had them as riding horses. I think the horse is so central for mankind. We and the history of mankind would not have been agricultural animal, but you have all the history, the art of riding or driving, and of breeding. It's time to see the horses. Hello, everyone. This is a Black Forest stallion. Forest, as the name says, and it's an endangered small draft horse. As you can see, there are the Southern German Cold Blood. They are at least Black Forest, it's a deep, dark forest, and you small but really strong horses for working in the and for being very easy to feed because the kept in these beautiful Black Forest houses in, so they were under one roof with the families even dry leaves for the animals, and they needed strong and work. These are very, very special nice riding and driving horses. They are also used I always say this on the project, just going from of a few minutes here, it's so interesting to see but already the seat feels different, the walk see why each breed was developed into what they can see, and you can do anything with them. I love you're doing has already made it so they're Now, this breed was first introduced and everything switched to transportation, and so on. The horse was no But some breeders said we need to keep the 1970s to keep the horse alive. That's when the founder of Equitana, said we need to show all We cannot lose them; we need to keep breeding. sports became popular. Breeds were refined for with the old Venur horse, was refined with and other breeds from northern Germany. And here Durello; he's a very good dressage stallion Wow, here we are with three historic German breeds Germany. Feeling the difference between and I love seeing all the different things You're smiling from ear to It's time to go south to Slovenia, like an adventure lover's paradise, its name. We are heading to Lipica Lipizzaners are a really interesting breed breeds that was formed here in Lipica. That's when Archduke Charles bought this estate and Most of the breeding horses were imported from the ideal horse everywhere in Europe, so it was these horses were bred for another 300 years, only of horse we see today was formed. We can easily horse breed. What's very special about them is and their success in this field became the Lipica. Only the best-performing stallions from here to breed the next generation. These horses learn very easily, they like to perform, and When you work with a Lipizzaner, you become a characteristics is that they work for you as similar to the terrain around us. The terrain and wind. The wind here is named Bura, and it's At the end of the 17th and 18th centuries, the empire. They were bred in parts of the empire and many private, military, and state studs were then, during the period between the two world World War II, Lipica became part of Slovenia. growing up, and I actually had an opportunity of the performances in the United States. I white horses in perfect harmony. It's so neat It really is a great honor for all of us working site, and we are all very proud of these horses. of our careers are really deeply fond of them. We Riding School, with the goal of bringing them to airs above the ground. We do this with very little it's about the coordination and cooperation This is just beautiful--the Lipizzaner horses are born black or so it's really interesting to see their a herd of different ages. This horse is super Our breeding stock is in open stables. They opportunity to experience natural, free horse interactions within the herd. It's really to visit Lipica. All the historical buildings are remains absolutely rural. You can really original habitat. Our next stop is Finland, one of where saunas may outnumber people, and It's time to meet the Finnish horse breeds These are our stables, built It's so peaceful here. Yes, it is. These are our facilities, and we See you later; he wants to join us! Oh, that too. I read that this area is considered the there are lots of horses. I feel like This is the riding school stable, and This is the oldest indoor hall; you Yes, it seems like it. Thank you for the and this place is amazing. We are in education exclusively for the horse industry. Wow, you literally have everything--Trotters there. There's so much going on. like office work? Aren't I give everyone time inside, and after four, I love it. This is why we're doing everything. It's so nice to see people happy really nice. You're creating so many new college is that you're giving people with a it their life and career. That's really Yes, that's true. The Finnish full member of the WBFSH (World Breeding Okay, so it's quite new. There's such a beautiful picture to look show jumping, and even eventing. This though she's mostly ridden in dressage. It's a nice view from up here. She's just so maneuverable, and Well trained! I was told she's one of the school What a neat opportunity to be able to come to talented and enjoyable horses. We've met the Finnish Warmbloods, and breed here in Finland, The Finn what is the meaning for Finnish people? It for example, the war from 1939 to 1945, the Finn Finn horses as carriages and for taking care there were around 400,000 Finn horses, it really dropped dramatically. Now we have are working horses. But of course, more and more competing in dressage and show jumping. So it's education for our students, Finn horses are really I don't even know where to look; this is such horses and the Finnish breeds. This is an paradise right here. I can't even look at the going right behind you. We've got riding, and all different types of driving. I mean, this name is Min Mola, and this is [name]. What I like their nature. They're kind, very do a lot of stuff with them. With a Finn horse, basically. They're really kind and positive they go fast, and they are really cute and about Finn horses is that they are really like jumping and going in the forest and trails. Hello, my name is [name], and I'm 11 He's so sweet but a little spicy. He's so much horse underneath you, and he's just I really like this place. It's beautiful, and teachers and horses, and of course, the people here, I was 16. It's a big next step in your that has to be pretty special. Yeah, we and take part in a lot of things. We get to do Sweden is deep in the heartland of Scandinavia. and beautiful countryside. We are heading to a oldest active national studs, a place where the been here at Flyinge since the 1100s. It started also began breeding horses for war. These pillars for war. They practiced levade and caprioles and different horses that were here? You can see this When people come here with their competition history. Absolutely. Yeah, I feel like thinking about your competition, but you're have been here before. Their focus is on people. They have a wide variety of host many different events and competitions if you want to study--it's open for everyone. I can tell. I worked here when I was little in and then I came back without thinking about it. about it. They talk about Flyinge, and they always You're going to go with Marie and her She's a world champion, and the team is world championships. This is one of the get to do here. This is a class right so this is our last time actually. In 1661, the King of Sweden. Today, they are one of I may be slightly biased, but this is my kind of going to have your last class filmed, actually. them well. It sounds like you have a very fun all day. It's time to head to the arena to meet I'm from Finland, I've been riding my whole It's been a privilege to study here. It's have a lot of knowledge, and you can see all so much from them. It's a great place. lot of opportunities to ride different What is your favorite thing think they don't matter if they are or eventing horses. They always have such they have great technique. They have a great dressage. They are such special horses. Almost horse. I think it's absolutely my favorite breed, This is Serrano. He is a school horse here and is related to the stallion at The Swedish Warmblood is one of the world's these horses were bred specifically for riding. In appearance, performance, and character. In 1928, and the official stud book was created. It's any solid color, and their average height is are now used around the world, excelling equestrian events, including the Olympic Games. the armed forces, police cavalry, Oh wow, I just love it. There are so many now. This is one of the oldest stud farms in the since the 12th century. It's amazing to see the for the horses they're breeding but also for Horses often show up in our lives in rather Wisconsin with non-horsey parents, and parking lot started the path to how I got my first things about these animals: the opportunity whether we are lifelong riders or Portugal has something for everyone. It's a and amazing scenery. We're headed to another Alter Stud Farm in Portugal was established the majestic Lusitano horse has been bred for Anna to help us learn more about the stud Here, the horses are all being brought in today, and what a sight it is to see a large group Being in the presence of one and then you've got almost 100 horses It all started with the wish of a king. service of the royal court. The stud farm has political changes, and even the it continues to produce Lusitanos known for temperaments. This is the paradise of the Lusitano From the stud farm, we have around 320 to 340 retired from competition last and he's one of the best characters we super attentive to our communication and I have been so impressed with it's fantastic. Here in Portugal, we don't because we have the Lusitano--a big horse, but Oh my gosh, she's so beautiful. Hello, This horse has a nice history. When he was seven outside with another rider. He came back with took him out of competition. He stayed with us including surgery, and then, when we had lost We started preparing him for competition, and that He's so maneuverable and just listens to with you. And then he's so quiet--you just stop, The basis of the Lusitano is the same as the time, different people selected for different the Lusitano has always been selected typical horses, but the focus has always been work with cattle. That's why today we have a They can be beautiful and typical, but they That's why we have this horse today here in Alter, with a very specific bloodline inside the classical riding and the Portuguese School we've also selected for dressage, and now we have riding and our team for dressage. We're the I think one of the incredible there's so much to learn as a the act of practicing it and working with Exactly. You need to be completely connected with exercises. The details can be so small. It's a The stud farm is open to visitors farm's rich history with guided tours, visit up close. They host various equestrian an annual horse auction. But the Lusitano is Here we have a Sorraia stallion. This is a Oh, look at that beautiful The Sorraia is not well known. It started next to Cura, and then they developed with that from the Lusitano. In the beginning, but when they are comfortable with your presence, the association has at the moment around 250 animals. We have the biggest groups here in and in Germany, the United States, How did you get involved with This started at the beginning, when to Alter. They stayed for a few years, and the property of the Andrad family. Some and since then, we've been breeding so it's a Portuguese line. We have to have the Every time I get to ride an endangered much work has gone into making sure these breeds have been lost if it weren't for the work of their time and passion to preserve them. riding a breed that may have disappeared why I love sharing these breeds with all of you that goes into maintaining them and keeping them As the day comes to a close, the mares and have enjoyed meeting all of these breeds and the quest to ride every breed all at another point in this incredible