- [Narrator] Go through checkout, tap your card and there, you paid in less than two seconds. It's faster than, hold on, (machine blips) this and safer than this. That quick exchange is thanks just a few little wires that make contactless payments possible. Here's a look inside the tech both quick and secure and why tap-to-pay has taken so long to This is the tech behind tap-to-pay. (machine beeps) At the heart of tap-to-pay or near field communication, of RFID or radio frequency identification. You might be familiar with it as a way to unlock your NFC relies on those little wires which are actually antennas. - The antenna looks like a of different wires and that's what's used to basically transmit the - [Narrator] This is Mike Maclennan. He's the general manager a company that makes card readers. And he cracked one open to show us exactly how a tap-to-pay - Reminds me a lot of opening oysters. - [Narrator] Card readers - This is the NFC antenna, of what makes NFC transactions once we pull it off how - [Narrator] The card and the reader are what he calls passive The reader is active because it has power, and can initiate radio And the card is passive and needs to be near an active source to initiate that communication. Tapping your phone works the same way, because your phone - What's happening right now and it's looking for a card, basically, anywhere within this region up here. - [Narrator] It's doing specific to NFC devices, which only works at a very short range, a maximum And when the reader finds the card, it requests the information That information is stored One thing it stores is meaning information that's the same every time you use your card. That's things like the account It's what's sent from your when you swipe. But your chip doesn't when you tap, it also sends a unique string of numbers that your card is valid. - What the card is doing is from the reader about the transaction, about the reader specifically, with the the card information to create a unique number That's what makes it a card fraudulently is to have a cryptographic key that lets them generate that secret code. - [Narrator] That information the payment board which sorts to the data that needs from the card and puts it all into an encrypted package. That package then gets which then. - Sends that on to our to the networks like which then send it on to with the approval message. Once you get to this and protected information will have a high degree of - [Narrator] All of that faster than inserting your chip. - So when you insert a there's a few back and whereas in contactless, there's It was just built as a more efficient, more streamlined, only kind of information being - [Narrator] Card networks that this is also more secure than other ways you can use your card. Unlike swiping, your static data is better protected And because it doesn't have it's not susceptible to malware that can affect chip insert This tap-to-pay technology has taken off in the last few years, in for contactless during the pandemic. Square says such payments tripled between the beginning of While other countries like integrated into public it's taken the US more - [Announcer] For a whole new way to pay, MasterCard introduces Pay Pass. - US first started issuing - [Narrator] Peter Rudegair is a Wall Street Journal reporter who covers payments and - Different banks thought it and thought their consumers Didn't really work out just because there were few businesses that were set up to accept tap-to-pay. - [Narrator] US Retailers have been slow to replace payment systems, in part because they're In 2022, about 55% of merchants said they accepted tap-to-pay, with others saying they were Consumer behaviors are and the switch to contactless - It's just often been described as a solution in search of a problem. Yes, it might be convenient but that's not usually enough for people to switch their behavior. - [Narrator] The tech and the push to integrate it into more parts of everyday In New York, for example, subway riders can now - So you have this big into more transportation systems and to get people used And if you're gonna use tap-to-pay to get on and off the maybe you'll also use it for your coffee, your lunch, your drinks. At least that's the idea that the credit card - [Narrator] Square and other companies have also recently released to use the NFC antenna in your phone as the active connection, in your pocket, which could make it easier for small retailers to - This is showing you and so the NFC antenna on your And so when I take my and I hold it over there, (bright music)