It's Professor Dave, I'm a cancer. What about you? After getting through all of the astronomy it's quite easy to put certain common beliefs flat-earth model that we just went over. Are there any other concepts like this that I can think of one more. A significant percentage of the global population that the positions of the planets and stars that take place on Earth. According to western astrology, the locations spatial relationship to the twelve constellations would suggest. Their positions at your birth determine aspects any given day determine things that will happen Can this be true? Can the validity of this claim be tested? It absolutely can. Let's go through an examination of astrology once and for all. This analysis will occur in two parts. Later, we will look at what's in charts we can find a mechanism of action. Astrologers claim that the positions of celestial If so, then how? Thousands of years ago, when these planets to simply say magic, or divine action, and But in the modern era, we have science. We have instrumentation. We have the ability to learn all about the here, we should be able to detect it, measure So what kind of influence is being exerted the people on it? Well, let's see. There are four fundamental forces, the strong and gravity. The nuclear forces operate on the dimensions Electromagnetism and gravity on the other so let's take a closer look at those. Keep in mind, we understand these two forces very well. We have equations that allow us to calculate or gravitational force between two objects. These equations are indisputable, they predict of precision, and with repeated flawless accuracy. These equations describe the universe. Now if we try to plug in some numbers, like to them, we find that all the stars we see that they just can't affect us. Even the nearby planets in our solar system The abnormally powerful magnetic field of human beings than that of a toaster oven in The gravity of these far away objects pulls And not just by a little. By several orders of magnitude. So if either of these forces are proposed then case closed, it's bogus. The math doesn't lie. But that's not the only problem. Even if the magnitude of these forces was true of the gravity exerted by the sun and and Saturn, due to their size and proximity, How can gravity, the force of attraction between as your disposition? In the biology series, we learned about genetics fit with all of that? The answer is simple. It can't. Astrology predates biology. It predates all of modern science by a longshot. And that's the point. Astrology is a collection of things that we when we thought the earth was the center of But the retrograde motion of a planet is not It's just the visual effect of one planet The signs of the zodiac don't actually mean anything. They are just imaginary pictures we made up are strewn about at random. We made water constellations to remind us her sheaf of grain to remind us of the harvest. These were simple mnemonic devices that had ancient generations, who were seeking meaning We have been replacing mysticism and pseudoscience and astronomy is one such science. Of all the thousands of astronomers around for a living, there are precisely zero that Just let that sink in for a moment. Ten out of ten professional space scientists Once you learn enough science, the pseudoscience Now let's say you're still not convinced. Perhaps you don't know about these equations That's fair, we should be able to make up a different angle. Let's say astrology is true. Let's say that the planets and stars do understand how. It is beyond our ability to comprehend the If this were the case, astrologers still ought correlating with reality. If the positions of celestial objects are experiments and collect some evidence that Well as it happens, a wide variety of experiments Some experiments have asked professional astrologers charts based on their psychological profiles. They never succeed in a statistically significant If astrology was true, wouldn't people who as scientists apply science? Well, perhaps they are bad astrologers, one might say. They don't know what they're doing, so Very well, then what if we gather huge amounts Some studies have taken hundreds of people that are now adults, and examined a huge variety Disposition, income, profession, relationship The planets were in the same positions for should be some kind of similarity between them. Something, anything. And yet, no trends can be found whatsoever They are no more alike than any random assortment Still too many variables, you say? Unreliable reporting of time of birth, too alright, no problem. Let's get even more specific than that. Two people born within seconds of one another Fraternal twins. According to astrology, these children have be essentially identical people. Same sky, same planets, same constellations, they necessarily have the same chart. If you haven't been convinced of anything convince you, so use your personal experience. Go ahead and think of all the fraternal twins Are they identical? All of them? Definitely not. Some are rather similar, and some couldn't Just like all siblings. But astrology would require that these similarities That fraternal twins do not have precisely that astrology is false. Maybe you're still not satisfied. Let's say you don't have a twin, and never knew any. How can you verify things for yourself? Well, you have a sun sign, you have a natal So what about individual horoscopes then? Studies have been performed whereby test subjects are given horoscopes, and are told that they High percentages of the subjects reported despite the fact that everyone got exactly How can the same horoscope apply to everyone? It can't. That defies what astrology proposes. We should all get different horoscopes and So how can everyone identify with the same That's very easy to answer. Most horoscopes and charts are vague, listing Everyone wants to believe that they are compassionate, Even weaknesses listed are usually pretty too humble, or having high standards for oneself, Most people will agree that they are these Furthermore, on any given day, look up your If astrology is true, they should all agree But you can bet a lot of money that they will not. Some will tell you to be careful with money, Nothing said will mean much, and none of them Horoscopes are just too vague to have any as concretely as science does. Science says that if you throw this object according to this equation, it will land on And lo and behold, it does, every single time. The equation therefore must correlate with reality. Horoscopes do not say anything so falsifiable. If they said that today a man named Kyle Evans sandwich and then a car horn will honk three a mailbox, and that highly specific event whom that horoscope applies, then astrology But this is never the case. It's always something along the lines of: Or, you will reconnect with someone. Or, you will have to make a decision today. These are things that apply to pretty much what makes astrology a pseudoscience. It does not regularly make rigorously falsifiable falsified. Anyone that is being honest with themselves that there is no validity to astrology. When something makes falsifiable claims, which must be rejected. If someone asks you to think of a number from claiming that they are psychic, if they then a row, we would conclude that they are not psychic. This is how science works. For a theory to be valid, it must correlate If those predictions don't work out, the So the fact that astrology has stuck around If the psychic guesses your number only two they just guessed correctly two times by chance, But if someone reads their horoscope every vaguely with events, they may still believe confirm their bias and ignore the rest of the data. An equation that only predicts events two as it can't have a reliable correlation Therefore, neither do horoscopes. You can demonstrate this to yourself by comparing same sun sign as you. Try to objectively assess whether there is If you're really serious, find someone born Even in the same region. The two of you would absolutely have to be would apply to both of you. If the reality is anything less than this, for it to be true, its predictions must hold by chance. So what's the big deal, you may be asking. Even if astrology isn't true, who is it hurting? Well it's more harmful than you may think, When Ronald Reagan was in office as the president hired an astrologer whose advice was quite Can you imagine if America was to declare It doesn't even have to get this catastrophic. In general, when large segments of the public and mysticism, it clouds their ability to make informed political decisions. In short, we all need to agree on the nature against potential oppression. So things like astrology, while they may not in the grand scheme of human development. So that's all there is to it. Astrology is undeniably, inarguably, completely The positions of the stars and planets at with anything whatsoever regarding who you It is nothing more than a stubborn relic from were one, and it has only survived for one reason. It's fun. People like it. They like the idea of it, and how it makes them feel. The notion that the universe and everything of humanity is comforting, that can't be denied, It's hubris on the grandest scale. So while it may not be such a big deal to better for us to grow as a species and leave There are those who would argue that something appreciation for the magic of the night sky, When you leave this primitive construct behind what astronomers have come to understand over this astronomy series, your reverence for Planets, stars, galaxies, the infinite potential us to grow up and tame it. The deafening silence that is our unknown of a billion twinkling stars. These worlds are ours for the taking, but our efforts on the acquisition of real knowledge. For those of you that take this road as your chapter is next for you.