Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. to seemingly create chocolate out of Maybe you've seen it before. 4 squares by 8 squares, but if you cut it like this and then like this and finally like this you can rearrange the pieces like so and wind up with the same 4 by 8 bar but with a leftover piece, apparently out of thin air. There's a popular as well. I call it an illusion because it's just that. Fake. the final bar is a bit smaller. this much less chocolate. Each square the original, but the cut makes it difficult to notice extra misleading, because it tries to The lost height of each square is added in while the piece moves to make I mean, come on, obviously you cannot cut up and rearrange the pieces into more than Or can you? theorems in modern mathematics is the paradox. It proves that there is, in fact, a way to and separate it into 5 different pieces. And then, with those five pieces, simply rearrange them. two exact copies of the original item. Same density, same size, same everything. Seriously. To dive into the mind blow that it is and the way it fundamentally and ourselves, we have to start by asking First, what is infinity? A number? on the number line, there's an infinite &quot;number&quot; of blah-blah-blah. And as far as we know, infinity could be real. The universe may be infinite in size and flat, extending out for ever and ever without end, beyond even the part we can or ever hope to observe. That's exactly what infinity is. per se, but rather a size. of something that doesn't end. number, instead, it is how many numbers there are. But there are different The smallest type of infinity is countable infinity. in forever. It's also the number of whole natural number, the numbers we use when things, like 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and so on. Sets like these are unending, but they are countable. Countable from one element to any other in a finite amount of time, even if that finite will live or the universe will exist for, it's still finite. Uncountable infinity, on the other hand, is literally bigger. The number of real numbers that there are, not just whole numbers, but all numbers is uncountably infinite. even from 0 to 1 in a finite amount of every real number in between. where do you even start? okay. Eventually, we would imagine a 1 going somewhere at the end, but there is no end. We could always add another 0. makes this set so much larger than the set that even between 0 and 1, there are more numbers than there are whole numbers on the Georg Cantor's famous diagonal argument helps illustrate this. between zero and one. Since they are let's imagine randomly generating them forever with no repeats. Each number regenerate can be paired with a whole number. If there's a one to that is if we can match one whole number on our list, that would mean that countable and uncountable sets are the same size. even though this list goes on for ever. Forever isn't enough. If we go diagonally down our endless of real numbers and take the first decimal and the second of the second number, and add one to each, subtracting one if it happens to be a nine, we can real number that is obviously between 0 and 1, but since we've defined it to be from every number on our endless list it's clearly not contained in the list. In other words, we've used up every the entire infinity of them and yet we come up with more real numbers. but counter-intuitive. of even numbers as there are even and odd numbers. At first, that sounds as many even numbers as all whole numbers, The set of all whole numbers is denser but every even number can be matched with a You will never run out of members either shows that both sets are the same size. In other words, infinity divided by two is still infinity. Infinity plus one is also infinity. A good illustration of this is Hilbert's up the Grand Hotel. with a countably infinite number of imagine that there is a person booked Seemingly, it's fully booked, right? Infinite sets go against common sense. You see, if a new guest shows up and wants a room, all the hotel has to do is move the to room number 2. And a guest in room 2 to 5 and so on. Because the number of rooms is never ending we cannot run out of rooms. -1 is also infinity again. If one guest leaves the hotel, we can shift every guest the other way. 3 to 2, 4 to 3 and so on, because we have an infinite amount of guests. That is a No room will be left empty. you can subtract any finite number from infinity and still be left with infinity. It's unending. Banach-Tarski hasn't left All of this is related. to shapes. to a circle. Points around the guests. If we remove one point from the circle that point is gone, right? it doesn't matter. is irrational. It's the radius times 2Pi. So, if we mark off points beginning from every radius length along the we will never land on the same point ever. with a whole number. but countable, just like guests and And like those guests, we can just shift the rest. counterclockwise and every room will be Point 1 moves to fill in the hole, point 2 fills in the place where point 1 used to be, and so on. Since we have a unending no hole will be left unfilled. The missing point is forgotten. to be complete. There's one last needo we should discuss before tackling Banach-Tarski. famously proposed a brilliant dictionary. One that he called the Hyperwebster. lists every single possible word of any length formed from the 26 letters in the It begins with &quot;a,&quot; followed by &quot;aa,&quot; then &quot;aaa,&quot; then &quot;aaaa.&quot; And after an infinite number of those, &quot;ab,&quot; then &quot;aba,&quot; then &quot;abaa&quot;, &quot;abaaa,&quot; and so on until &quot;z, &quot;za,&quot; &quot;zaa,&quot; et cetera, et cetera, infinite sequence of &quot;z&quot;s. a dictionary would contain every single word. definition, description, truth, lie, name, story. in that dictionary, didn't happened to Amelia Earhart. Everything that could be said using our alphabet. but the company publishing it might a shortcut. If they put all the words a in a volume titled &quot;A,&quot; they wouldn't have to print the initial &quot;a.&quot; because it's the &quot;a&quot; volume. &quot;a,&quot; the publisher is left with every &quot;a&quot; word sans the first &quot;a,&quot; which has surprisingly become every possible word. of the 26 volumes has been It is now that we're ready to titular paradox. a 3D thing into a Hyperwebster? Could we decompose pieces of it into the Yes. is give every single point on the one name and one name only. A good way to can be reached by a given starting point. If we move this starting point across in steps that are just the right length, or in what direction we rotate, so long backtrack, it will never wind up in the twice. We only need to rotate in four Up, down, left and right around two perpendicular axes. every single possible sequence that can of any finite length out of just these That means we will need lef, right, up and down as well as left left, left up, left down, but of course not left right, because, well, that's and then right means you're the same as no left rights, no right lefts and no up no down ups. Also notice that I'm writing right to left, so the final rotation is the leftmost letter. Anyway. A list of all possible sequences in lenght is, well, huge. Countably infinite, in fact. But if we apply each one of them to a in green here and then name the point we after the sequence that brought us there, a countably infinite set of points Let's look at how, say, these four strings Right up left. Okay, rotating the starting us here. Let's colour code the point in this case it's left and for that we will use purple. That sequence takes us here. and color it blue, since we ended with a down rotation. takes us here. let's use red. up, let's colour code the point orange. Now, if we imagine completing this every single sequence, we will have a named and color-coded. not enough. infinite number of points on a sphere's surface. But no worries, we can just pick a point Any point and color it green, making it a new starting point and then run every from here. uncountably infinite number of named and colored every single point on just once. of poles. Every sequence has two poles of Locations on the sphere that come back to For any sequence of right or left rotations, the polls are the north and The problem with poles like these is to them. They can be named more than once and be colored in more than one color. For example, if north or south pole, any subsequent rights or lefts will be equally valid names. In order to deal of the normal scheme and color them all yellow. so there are a countably infinite amount of them. Now, with every point on the one name and just one of six colors, apart. Every point on the surface below it all the way to the center point. every point's line along with it. we will set aside. Okay, first we cut out poles, the green starting points, the orange up points, the blue down points and the red and purple left and right That's the entire sphere. these pieces you could build the whole It is defined by being a piece composed of every point, accessed via a sequence ending with a left rotation. right, that's the same as adding an &quot;R&quot; to every point's name. is a backtrack, they cancel each other reduce them away. The set becomes the same as a set of all points with names but also U, D and every point reached with no rotation. We have turned less than a quarter of just by rotating it. We added nothing. It's like piece and the poles of rotation and the center again, but with stuff left over. let's rotate the up piece down. down ups cancel because, well, and we're left with a set of all up piece, the right piece and the left We don't need this extra set of starting used the original ones. No worries, let's just We can just move everything from the up that turns into a starting point when That means every point whose final in the piece. Of course, after rotating UU will just turn into points named U, and here. all points with any name that is just a string of Us. We will put them in the down piece and piece down, which makes it congruent to and left pieces, add in the down piece and the starting point piece and, well, The poles of rotation and center are missing from this copy, but no worries. infinite number of holes, which means there is some pole around every pole hole orbits around without Well, this is just a bunch of circles We fill them each like we did earlier. Imagine a circle that contains it inside and just fill in from infinity and look We have taken one sphere and turned it without adding anything. One plus one equals 1. a while to go through, And mathematicians, scientists and Could such a process happen in the real I mean, it can happen mathematically and describe a lot of things in the real with amazing accuracy, but does the Banach-Tarski paradox take it too far? separate? History is full of examples of abstract that we did not think would ever apply for years, decades, centuries, realized they were totally applicable and useful. The Banach-Tarski paradox could the only catch of course is that the aren't simple shapes. and detailed. That's not possible to do in only get so small and there's only a finite amount of time theoretically valid and some scientists think it may be physically valid too. There have been a number of papers a link between by Banach-Tarski and the way tiny tiny sub-atomic can collide at high energies and turn than we began with. We are finite creatures. Our lives are small and can only scientifically reality. a sliver of what's available. We can spectrum. We can only delve so deep into Common sense applies to that which we access. Common. is what we want, we should be prepared to weird or strange. The results we've arrived at by true within the system we use to universe. Perhaps the system still needs history continues to show us that the We are. And as always, thanks for watching. Finally, as always, the description is full There are also a number of books linked wrap my mind kinda around Banach-Tarski. First of all, Leonard Wapner's &quot;The Pea and the Sun.&quot; This book is fantastic and it's full of lot of the preliminaries needed to understand the proof that comes later. ramifications of what Banach-Tarski and their Also, if you wanna talk about math and whether it really truly will map onto the universe, &quot;The Outer Limits of Reason&quot; is great. This is the favorite book of mine that I've read Brian Davies' &quot;Why Beliefs Matter.&quot; This is actually as you might be able to see there. information about the limits of what we and what science is and what mathematics is. If you love infinity and math, I cannot &quot;Things to Make and Do in the Fourth Dimension.&quot; He's hilarious and this book is very very great at explaining some pretty So keep reading, I hope you've already watched Kevin Field Day. I already did a documentary about Whittier, Alaska over there. Kevin's got a great short film about and having people react to them. There's something on Field Day soon. So check out mine, check out Kevin's and subscribe to Field Day for upcoming Jake He's actually in this room right now, say the way. Guys, I really appreciate who you all are. And as always, thanks for watching.