- All right, so you a lot of Formula 1 recently, a lot of races, a lot of famous drivers, a lot of drama and exciting stories. It's taken over my timeline Basically, a ton of you guys asking, &quot;Hey, are you watching? Are you paying attention to this stuff?&quot; And so I finally caved and and I'm really glad I did. So in this video, I'm gonna tell you guys why I think Formula 1 is super and why you should probably From the stories to the to the race-day experiences. This is Formula 1 explained. (mellow music) So shout out to sponsor Bitdefender for making this video possible. They reached out because they so they're on the Ferrari and they have a lot of with cybersecurity and safety so we'll talk more about that in a minute. But for now, I'm so glad that because I love it now, just because while on the which is already pretty cool, the world's highest-end tech competition. It's a science fair. So at the most basic level, the sport is a year-long on different tracks around the world. And Formula 1 has a long and rich history. I don't need to give you a but there's been a going from stuff like this, like a pretty simple looking to this aerodynamic work of art made from the most advanced But the most interesting is that there are at the same time, each season. There's the Drivers' Championship and the Constructors' Championship. So yes, every driver is gonna try to get around the track but the structure is: there are 10 teams, each And so every race, a driver can get points for how high they finish. Those add up at the end of But there's also points for the engineering teams behind each car. And they also get points that add up to a championship at the end of the year. And this, this is what I mean when I say it's a science fair. 'Cause look, every sport has rules, right? Like golf, all your clubs need and the basketball hoop But having the best equipment in F1 is incredibly advantageous, and you're allowed, to improve your equipment You are constantly In so many ways F1 is the sport with Like these teams are spending hundreds of millions of any little improvement to give themselves the They're fighting for tenths It's incredible to see. Like, you don't get from here to here so quickly by accident. There is a massive amount of engineering and experimenting that every single little part of every car to be able to get around the track as fast as physically possible, to get as many points for the championship every season within the rules. And yes, there are still rules. This is important. So the FIA is the governing and they are charged of maintaining a set of rules that keeps everything fair and safe, but still allows room for and encourages innovation So you can actually look There's a 183-page PDF online. I'll leave a link below the like button if you wanna flip through it yourself. And there are so many some of them to keep racing like the requirement uses at least two different I'll explain that in a minute. There are also plenty which, again, is why a really makes sense to be here. So these are open-wheel, but every single one no matter what, has this around and above the This thing is not designed by the teams. This is designed by the from one of the approved manufacturers and they have to put them on their car. There was initially some pushback against the aesthetics of it, but every single year since it's continued to prove its Like, you can literally of incidents where the halo saves lives since it can literally support the weight of another entire car on top of you, or if it gets flipped upside down. So you can bet that's why Bitdefender wanted their logo specifically on the halo of the Team Ferrari car. So Bitdefender is a which means they value innovation, safety, and quick reactions, which So you can see why it makes to be on the most important They're also on the There's some other high-level rules around the turbocharged and the gear boxes, et cetera. My personal favorite is also one of the oldest, which is under every single F1 car is a plank of wood bolted to the bottom because one of the OG rules is to restrict just how low the car can And so after every race they can inspect the plank of wood on and if it's too worn down, then your car was dragging and you have too much down force and your car is illegal, disqualified. So just think about that. Next time you see one marvel-of-engineering flying around the racetrack, just know that every single one of them also has a plank of wood So you've got this rule book, and then you've got all these spending millions of dollars any little thing that might give their car the advantage around the track. And naturally, since it's so competitive, these teams are incredibly secretive about everything they're doing. But then, the beautiful thing is if some team actually that's good enough to give even if it's a tenth of a a half a second per lap, that's massive, eventually, all of the other and will find a way to build it and implement it themselves. It's just this ecosystem of all these constantly-improving features and you can see them over and over again. &quot;So what exactly are these improvements?&quot;, you might be wondering. Great question. Here are And basically every single one of these has an amazing story behind it of how someone on an and then they decided to try it and then it worked and it stuck. So one of the most obvious Of course we see wings but believe it or not, F1 They just relied on pure But you know how if you stick your hand out the car window and then tilt it, it'll push your hand up or down. Same thing with a wing on a car. It can push parts of the car for more grip and faster cornering. So it started off as a on the front axle and, very and now they all have Fun fact, one team did actually once try a mini extra front wing on a car in 2001. It didn't really work out so you don't really see The cars today have tons and multi-layered front wings, like fins near the middle of the car. It's crazy how many details there are if you ever actually get to Another huge advancement an acronym for kinetic Basically, a system to capture energy created by the spinning wheel and turns it into energy in a battery that can be deployed as boosts later. So the first teams to they actually found it and it worked kind of sometimes, didn't necessarily guarantee a win. But eventually, fast and it's developed over time and paved the way for Now, you might've also This one's pretty simple actually. So yeah, there's a ton of downforce from the aerodynamic features of this car and that helps it stick to the ground during these planted turns, but that actually, technically, slows it down in a straight line. So teams engineered a a button that you press that opens up, lets it cut and it works really well. So at this point, not only but it's actually literally when you can use it to There have been plenty of other massive technological that have all been pioneered who had a good idea that from putting the engine behind the driver, to the monocoque chassis, to the ground-effect all of them adding up to absolutely insane These cars are clawing for They're hitting 200+ mile and then pulling five to six Five to six Gs is about as much as you can feel anywhere on So this is why F1 is often called &quot;the and I totally agree. Like there are technically cars in a straight line from a standstill. You might see some of My car actually is, but the it gets really obvious grip, acceleration out of a corner, just the control you have over the car. It's honestly incredible. And it's one thing to see it on TV, like you can tell and the broadcasts are super cool. There's sensor data everywhere, live speed readouts, cameras on every car, but seeing it in-person gave me an entirely new level So this is the Ferrari car the day before racing started this past weekend in Las Vegas. This car is so much lower and actually bigger than There was also so many little and carbon fiber everywhere, The tires are also gigantic and the driver sits so much Actually, Bitdefender also let in their Performance And the most noticeable thing, actually, is just how low you sit. Your feet are kind of back up in the air right below eye level, which is where the pedals are in the car. It's just funny picturing in their cars like this. But what really got me is just Cameras just don't do It's really, really impressive stuff. And then, there's obviously and the vibration through your chest, like none of that happens So when Bitdefender reached to the Las Vegas Grand Prix I couldn't say no. So this is the second-to-last a super cool race built Like one of the straightaways is literally the Las Vegas strip and points are available for and the Constructors' Championship. So what is a race day Well, here's what to look out for. So first of all, an F1 Grand Prix is actually a several-days-long event. First, there's practice days, then there's the race day. So the practice day is actually just a fascinating thing because it's a practice and the teams engineering the cars. So there's a set amount of to send the drivers out in their cars to see how much faster or They all go flying for the first time and drivers will literally communicate with their teams from about how things are feeling. &quot;Oh, you know, a little more A little more stiffness So they might do a quick not just a different set of but they might completely and tweak some of the entire car setup before they bring it and try out some more major adjustments, all within the rules, of course. You might have seen the headlines, this Las Vegas one, the practice because one of the cars went that the ground effect sucked the manhole cover out and damaged the car. And so they had to go around and weld all of the manhole covers shut. Pretty insane. So then the next night is and then qualifying. So qualifying is actually pretty simple. It's go out and set your with your car. Whoever has the fastest lap time will start the race in first place and whoever has the slowest lap time will start in last place. So even this gets pretty exciting because once again, trying to set their qualifying and they're all trying at once so sometimes there's a little traffic or a little bit of drama, and there's actually in a row, elimination style. So you start with 20 drivers. The first session the second session, which eliminates the next slowest five, and then the third and final session is the top 10 fastest laps And so everyone is after that precious first spot on I think the real-time, all the data, I went down to the garage when they were starting qualifying, those guys are looking at monitors with everything about the car in real time as it's driving on a graph, It's sick. It's a science fair. So there's no screens out here like, on the app, you can but final qualifying, I didn't plan that, they're just fast. So then, the third and is the race. And a lot of people will not get to go to an F1 race in person, Like they're all dialed in now. They're all rolling and final version of with their best pilots and they're all gonna now So a race is typically about 90 minutes. It's always 190 miles, And if you're doing the math in your head, yes, that does mean they're averaging well over a hundred miles pit stops included. But then, actually one while you're watching the So most pit stops during two to four seconds, and Now, they are capable of doing some more extensive but those also definitely take longer. So sometimes if you have like they'll just continue on with it because it's faster to The winner of the race this And so one of the last biggest rules in F1 that I haven't even mentioned So there's a predefined set of tires available to all of the not designed by the teams. They're spec'd by the FIA under the rules to be exciting for racing. And basically, there is a set of them ranging from softest and grippiest all the way to hardest and most durable depending on the rubber compound. So the softest tires are and fastest around the track. They can be good for a few but believe it or not, they're so soft that they will wear and can be completely and so you will need to do a pit stop, which will cost you a little bit of time. But then, the hardest compounds are technically slower per lap, less grip, but they can go way more So these drivers are not to drive their best, but teams are also putting because every car is at least two different tire which produces a lot of where one driver is ending the race with a different set depending on their strategy. It is wild. It's super It's like chess, but the pieces are moving at 200 miles an hour and It's amazing. It's another reason why Bitdefender aligns itself so well with this stuff because again, they're a In cybersecurity, you have to respond, you have a strategy to start things, but things can go very wrong and so they have to be And that's a lot of the same that these teams are doing. When strategies fall apart, they gotta adjust, they gotta edit. It's very complicated. So there's all this all of these incredible machines. But at the end of the day, you just gotta get out there So get in the slipstream, play defense, attack braking zones, use your machine's specific advantages to get that rare overtake and just all of this being put together, it's like art on wheels. There's plenty of YouTube clips out there. There's a Netflix documentary It is amazing to watch. And then the cherry on top that Formula 1 has on the It's bigger than you might think. Like the obvious one is that, okay, some of the highest-end, from trying to make the F1 cars faster will eventually maybe trickle down into the road cars that we have today. And that's true, that's real. So the Ferrari team that works on the racetrack in 2023, and then in 2029, they're working on a simpler, less expensive version, but that's very effective for a Ferrari that someone can actually buy. DRS, paddle shifters, carbon fiber, there's lots of examples of things that originated in F1 cars that have made their way which is super cool. But then there's some of like a race kind of changes kind of like the Olympics. Now, a lot of races are on dedicated purpose-built racetracks, so the effect's not as huge, but there are a few special that are built into the city streets, which are way cooler, in my opinion, even if they present a number And then the winning, or is a huge marketing win Obviously, if you have a team dedicated to the highest end of motorsport pushing the envelope with the ad copy basically writes itself. So thanks again to for helping make this video possible. I got to learn a lot about them too. And actually the fact that is actually used by Ferrari to protect their top-secret innovations. But now I'm a fan, I'm I hope you enjoyed this video. My goal for this whole thing was to hopefully have you be watch an F1 race, and not necessarily know but to be able to better and the engineering and the spectacle of what might happen next. (mellow music) Thanks for watching. Subscribe for more. Catch you the next one. Peace.