Whether it's paranormal phenomena or gruesome mystery. Nothing is creepier than a story that leaves But that's not what we're here to tell you of the creepiest mysteries that were actually interdimensional travelers. Are you ready to find the truth? In February 1959, a group of nine Russian through the Ural mountains, and never came When the snow thawed enough that a search found a gruesome and unexplainable scene. The group's tent was found ripped open, still inside, and the corpses of the group varying states of undress. Many of them had cracked ribs and skulls, missing her tongue and eyeballs. Weirder still, the nearby trees were stripped undisturbed. When the bodies were brought home, the medical ruled the cause of death as simply 'a compelling, The case- known as the Dyatlov Pass Incident immediately captured the public's imagination in the years since. Some think it was the result of secret nuclear others think it might have been the work of abominable snowman. For years, it seemed like we might never know a pretty unlikely place. A group of scientists wanted to test the theory for the deaths of Igor Dyatlov and his friends. It had previously been thought that an avalanche incline their campsite was at, ruling it out However, when snow expert Johan Gaume and the calculations, it turned out that a slope avalanche to pick up speed. It was an interesting hypothesis, but to truly and for that, they enlisted the help of the Turns out that for the movie, Disney animators render incredibly realistic snow effects. So realistic, in fact, that the scientists in a 3D simulation, which proved once and the campers and stripped branches from trees Who says you can't learn anything useful from Let's go from the frozen wastes of Siberia In 1948, an unidentified body was found on He had no ID on him, all the tags had been in his pockets were a comb, a pack of cigarettes, Farsi for 'It is finished'. This scrap was later found to be taken from epic. When his copy was tracked down, investigators inside cover, codes which still haven't been Despite these strange clues, nobody could buried the following year with a tombstone Somerton Beach&quot;. The most popular theory about the Somerton Soviet or American, who had died by poisoning. But since even fingerprint databases turned However, even long after it was declared a worked for years to try and solve the mystery. In 2022, he teamed up with an American forensic in using DNA to solve cold cases. Using DNA recovered from the Somerton Man's the mystery man's living descendants. Turns out, he wasn't a spy at all. He was a man by the name of Carl Webb who to get back in contact with his ex-wife Dorothy So that's one part of the Somerton Man case was, it's still not clear how he died, or The next mystery is maybe the most creepy you. That's right - you. Have you ever Googled yourself only to find those public listing sites? Why is your info on a bunch of random websites? Well it's because data brokers are making spammers, and others who want to learn more That's why I'm excited to tell you about Aura can identify data brokers exposing your Brokers are legally required to remove your super hard to do. Let Aura handle it for you. You can try Aura free for two weeks using Aura also does so much more to protect you see. It's really easy to set up, so you don't get things like parental controls, antivirus, and more. You get everything at one affordable price online, so you can focus on other tasks with You can either let people continue to exploit you can go to aura.com/infographics to start in the description! But back to mysteries that don't involve Or at least we hope they don't... If you're someone who's afraid of the ocean, The Bloop. In 1997, a deafening sound was detected on thousand kilometers apart. Scientists were at a loss for what the sound Administration deduced that the sound was When you hear 'organic', you're probably thinking monster'. Maybe some kind of undiscovered whale, a giant in his underground city. Well, the answer is not as exciting, and depending either about to be relieved or disappointed. Turns out, the NOAA has picked up multiple have a pretty good idea of what they are. According to seismologist Robert Dziak, the of icequakes in Antarctica. An icequake is essentially what creates icebergs- and when chunks of ice break away from the Icequakes can also be recorded when icebergs icebergs as they melt. Given that the source of the bloop was determined entirely possible that the sound came from Speaking of icebergs, one of the most famous was the Franklin expedition. In 1848, the ships Erebus and Terror went to find a Northwest Passage through the Arctic. After his crew's vanishing, Sir John Franklin's and most expensive search in maritime history, point, but nothing was ever found. So what really happened? In 2008, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper to find out. It was a savvy political move on his part tabs on Russian ships in the Arctic sea at The search started in 2014, but due to Harper's expeditions, the results of the search were Despite the secrecy, the team did find the William Island, in shallow enough water that It was perfectly preserved in the icy water, note in Franklin's cabin confirming that the It's unclear where his body is, however, and the ice somewhere. From 1979 to 1986, residents of Southern California His first victims- a couple from Goleta- managed help, but the attacker fled the scene, and On December 30th, 1979, another couple was Over the next decade, three more couples and or bludgeoned in their homes in Ventura, Dana The killer came to be known as the Night Stalker, differentiate him from Richard Ramirez, another Police had no strong leads, but at least one Original Night Stalker was the same person dozens of women in and around Sacramento, the police. In 2001, DNA evidence would officially connect this madman's identity. Then, in 2013, writer Michelle McNamara started unsolved killings and crime sprees across Original Night Stalker. She developed a theory- what if he was also Killer? McNamara coined the name Golden State Killer was published two years after her tragic death The release of this book raised public awareness the Golden State Killer seriously. Through DNA evidence, Sacramento police were assaults and murders to a suspect- retired Deangelo confessed to being the Golden State sentences with no chance of parole. Staying on the topic of serial killers, let's crimes in history- the Zodiac murders. The Zodiac killer targeted couples in their people in San Fransisco. The most famous aspect of his crimes, however, across the city. Some of those notes were decoded, but others We say 'nearly impossible', because in 2020, one of the Zodiac killer's most mysterious The codebreakers were American cryptologist mathematician Sam Blake, and Belgian programmer Together, the men found a solution to the for codebreakers, using a program called azdecrypt It took a lot of trial and error over several In fact, the three codebreakers tried around a result. For their efforts, Blake, van Eycke, and Oranchak Unfortunately, though, the note didn't reveal Still, this is a huge discovery that adds The Salish Sea, a section of water between is a normal, unassuming place, aside from started washing up on the beaches. The first foot was found on August 20th, 2007, last. The feet are usually found wearing sneakers, boots, and most were never matched to their Theories ranged from plane crash wreckage 2004 Boxing Day tsunami, to even a serial But DNA evidence has since proven that the These feet were matched to a variety of missing likely that these people were either accidental over the Salish Sea. So why is it only the feet? The answer is simple physics- the ankles are the feet and hands the first parts to disconnect Then, since sneaker soles are made of buoyant to the surface, where the tide carries it In 1954, customs officers at Tokyo airport man tried to enter the country on a passport The man, John Alan Zegrus, had a passport the customs officials had ever heard of. Zegrus was pulled aside for questioning and Zegrus became confused and angry, insisting Taured should be was the Principality of Andorra, Zegrus was taken into custody, and supposedly Was John Alan Zegrus from an alternate reality? Not really, unless by 'from an alternate reality' According to a British newspaper report from the British and American governments for using identities. Zegrus conned his way around the world by Tamanrasset, the capital of Tuared, a city Africa but that he actually completely invented. His fake passport even had a country motto habessi trwap turapa.&quot; This motto also meant nothing, but it made into many countries around Africa, Europe, It just so happened that the border guards Zegus' claims, and his confusing attempts that he was from another dimension. The part about him disappearing was most likely to the story. It might seem strange in our security-conscious passport, but back in the 50s, before computers a lot more. There's no question that the advent of DNA to solving cold cases, but surely it can't Well, maybe not, but in 2021, investigators cracked the oldest cold case ever to be solved Patricia Kalitzke and Lloyd Duane Bogle, a were brutally killed while parked at a local Early investigations turned up a few leads, the case went cold. That was until 2012 when Detective Sergeant the case files. He got the idea to try and see what DNA tests It turned out that, even though DNA testing the detectives in 1956 had taken a vaginal she had been sexually assaulted. The microscope slides from that swab were well enough to test for DNA. In 2019, inspired by the arrest of the Golden with a lab called Bode Technology and got the killer might have had. The tests turned up a match- Kenneth Gould, Falls at the time of the murders. After 65 years, the killer was finally brought Well, sort of, anyway. Gould had actually passed away in 2007. But still, even though the killer never faced still got some well-earned closure. In 1976, when the Viking Orbiter sent pictures to find that one of the mountains that the like a human face. The face on Mars quickly became a central alone in the universe. Was it artificially carved out by some lost Unfortunately, it doesn't seem likely. Subsequent orbiters taking pictures of the different angles on the so-called face and What all that has revealed is that what initially were actually just shadows cast by some naturally But don't worry, true believers- that doesn't there, just that they weren't carving faces Now let's go from space to Spain. In 1971, the Pereira family of Belmez, Spain one day, faces started appearing on their They tried everything to scrub them off, but day. Even replacing the floor entirely didn't do as soon as the new concrete set in, the faces In no time at all, the house became swamped investigators, all trying to figure out what There was no evidence of paint or dye, everyone Even to this day, it's still not clear what phenomena- just kidding! It was a hoax devised by some creative homeowners While some sources would have you believe solved fairly quickly. The Spanish Ministry of the Interior commissioned while there was no evidence of paint or dye, were caused by rapid oxidization. The process of creating the faces was pretty a mixture of soot and vinegar, which left In 1908, a huge explosion took place in Tunguska, trees and was bright enough to light up the Today, if something like that happened, we off, but keep in mind that this was six years atomic bomb was still in the realm of science So what could've caused so much devastation? Alien invaders? A mini black hole? Is it some kind of secret steampunk death Well, it took scientists a full century of but we now have a pretty clear idea of what In 2009, researchers at Cornell University skies over Europe following the explosion produced by space shuttle launches. Obviously, space shuttles didn't exist in naturally as the result of ice crystals from That's right- scientists now believe that comet entering the atmosphere and explosively Large cosmic impacts like this one are theorized we shouldn't be due another one for a while We saved the best for last, and trust us- When a group of people in Mattoon, Illinois, symptoms in 1944, the city paper claimed it poison gas. Throughout September of that year, multiple by bouts of vomiting, dizziness, and unconsciousness, of Mattoon. Some witnesses reported seeing a blue vapor Others said they saw the culprit fleeing the The situation got so bad that locals formed The case became so well known that even Time on the front line in World War 2 sent letters case the gasser struck again. Despite the public vigilance and notoriety, he was, he disappeared just as quickly as How was he able to evade police so easily Well, it's probably because he wasn't quite The most likely scenario is a blend of isolated The symptoms reported by the victims are consistent that was produced by the nearby Atlas-Imperial As for the attacks where an assailant was have been responsible. In his book The Mad Gasser of Mattoon: Dispelling a local weirdo by the name of Farley Llewellyn, trouble with his experiments. Maruna thinks that Llewellyn was responsible reports of which made people more sensitive that they might've otherwise ignored. Now check out "Weirdest Unsolved Mysteries!" Or watch this video instead!