From the story of a Hard Rock Hotel to a massive dam that burst in the 1970s, It's time for another part of In today's last project, we'll uncover how a of 114 people. To be a bit more specific, the cause of the most tragic engineering We start today's video with Take a look at this empty lot at the heart of New there would be a hotel if the construction Let's jump back to 2011. Back then, was home to an abandoned Woolworth store that had waste of space, in a prime location -- and the Working with property developer, Kailas Companies, the lot. 300 apartments, a parking garage, and theory, there was a height limit in this part that. Most locals were excited about this big new For a few years, that highrise project on Canal but nothing else was put up in its place. Companies released an update: they'd changed their Hard Rock Hotel on the empty lot instead. in New Orleans because their values lined up scene". Mohan Kailas, the founder of the company, Orleans' great traditions of music and cuisine venues." He also said, "we're sure it will soon But as you can probably guess: Mohan Construction started right away, and be going well. It looked like a hotel -- or But at 9:12 in the morning, at the start of of the unfinished hotel collapsed, killing three Later, one of the survivors described how "underneath the... a lot of concrete... rebar... The collapse destabilized a giant crane. Nearby feared that the crane would fall. The streets rubble and twisted metal spilled across the Tomasetti -- a contractor who helped to assess the in to secure the site. Luckily, nobody else was How could all this have happened? one of the site's construction workers just video shows dozens of feeble support beams, look at this one." You can literally see shape. And you can see that, too, in Straight after the collapse, a couple of the site. One of them worked out that the overstressed. Another said that a collapse weak support beams used? The story gets a bit have higher ceilings in the penthouse. hotel taller -- not without breaking a pre-agreed They somehow had to gain space. To achieve support beams in the 16th and 17th floor. With less width, these beams were now weaker. They vertical beams... but they didn't. Ultimately, strong enough. Especially when you take a look at roof. They even lifted a swimming pool up there Somebody should have spotted this mistake -- and in charge of the site had actually bothered it turned out that the inspector had been bothering to visit the project. Just a couple even approved a layer of concrete on the hotel In the end, the collapse was waiting to happen. completely demolished. That's why there's nothing today. A series of mistakes -- a devastating Another collapse waiting to happen - let's crashing down in 2021 after multiple warnings And this past March, "investigators in the Champlain Towers' pool deck This overview we're looking at from 50 articles Ground News found covering highly factual sources - which you can sort letting you compare coverage from more This article from the Associate Press highlights the support columns in the garage While this mixed factuality source of the failure, keeping their report more vague This level of insight is why I'm partnering with forgot, Ground news is an App and Website the world into one place. On top of that, they including the sources; political Personally, I think it's a great to compare many different sources and about the differences also helps us to Subscribers fund Ground News and ads to remain as objective So to join an independent news platform you or click my link below. They're giving my the same plan I use - or try We now take a look at The Sinking of For this one, we need to go back actually... to August 1628. The king of Sweden the Vasa -- a glorious vessel that was larger and The ship was designed by Henrik Hybertsson, had a lot of experience building warships, but warships in the 17th century only had one have two gundecks to double its firepower. Here's a cross section of the finished When it was finally finished, the Vasa was a seen anything like it. On the day of its maiden But when the ship was lowered into the Within five minutes, when the Vasa hadn't The extra gundeck made the ship too heavy. the entire vessel started to tilt to one side. further -- then water poured in through the open so fast that a lot of people didn't manage to get families, who'd been invited along to enjoy this All in full sight of that gathered crowd: all docks to witness this... amazing... ship. The King total embarrassment. Not to mention the riksdaler -- that was 5% of the country's GDP. Let's jump forward again, this time to built in eastern Idaho, at the top of the which is basically just an embankment kinds of dams are often cheaper to build still cost more than 100 million dollars. a massive reservoir of water, which was to provide a source of hydroelectric power, and to than a year in, everything started to go wrong. brownish water running down the face of the dam. dot right here -- but they didn't get there and bigger -- and an urgent evacuation order was That's when one side of the Teton Dam collapsed. pouring from the reservoir behind. more powerful than the water at Niagara Falls. just took your breath. And you wondered... The people in the valley had twenty minutes to get it. But 11 people were still killed by the water, in Sugar City and Rexburg, causing 2 billion of people homeless, all in the blink of an eye. mistake. It was down to a great big pile on unstable land. In the last few years before earthquakes in the area. This was pointed out by carried out -- the dam was just built instead. some fissures and caves in the surrounding the dam. Again, some experts warned the the caves with grout made from sand and cement. of local soil called loess. Loess isn't actually when you put all these different things together: with a leaky dam -- it's no wonder Teton collapsed. the engineers, rather than the federal agency government still ended up paying claims to people they paid out more than 300 million dollars -- build in the first place. An expensive mistake... construction mistake that America has ever seen: Of all the events we've discussed so far, this this can be traced back to one mistake. In May 1978, workers in Kansas City, a Hyatt Regency hotel. They finished it standing there today. This is what the building with just over 700 rooms. You could From looking at these pictures, you might in the 1970s, was all a little bit... rushed. An it up: "[this was] an era of high unemployment, those factors added pressure on builders to Things started to go wrong at the Hyatt centered around the hotel's atrium: a with three elevated walkways hanging more specific... it centered around a pair These ones, right here. So what exactly happened? To explain this we created a In the original designs, Jack D. Gillum and planned to support the fourth storey walkway, and 1.25 inch diameter steel hanger rods. The designs The fourth storey walkway would be and held in place by those nuts we walkway would be secured at the bottom, But when these plans were sent off to Havens the steel rods -- they weren't convinced by the almost half the length of the steel rods there wouldn't be a way to This long length of thread would A) and B) be easy for the construction team to up. So the fabricators suggested a new design, The fourth storey walkway would hanger rods. Then a second pair of hanger secured by another set of nuts, with This design required a lot less threading -- of each rod. That's why the fabricators design looks pretty similar. Do you have any There is a crucial difference between of nuts was only supporting But in the new design, this set of nuts was they had to carry double the load. And that This didn't occur to the fabricators. to the engineers at Jack D. Gillum and them. Everyone involved was still in a rush so the new designs were quickly approved The hanger rods were manufactured. The entire hotel officially opened in July 1980. the engineers at Jack D. Gillum and Associates, thinking about the Hyatt Regency Kansas City -- On a friday evening, more than a thousand people tea dance. At five past seven, there were forty twenty people on the fourth storey walkway, all But remember how this set of nuts both walkways? And by the way. Each On top of that sixty people more than three times the weight They snapped with a sound like a gunshot. Then crashing onto the crowded and glass, and concrete -- 114 people were All because no one had properly checked those Gillum -- the head engineer -- lost his license at fault, but he later said: "as the engineer and that's what I did". He also remembered how dumbfounded. I mean, it was just like something Gillum didn't mean for the mistake to happen. But that's what can happen when projects are After the Hyatt Regency walkway collapse, of review were introduced, with much more care became an important case study for engineering mistakes still happen -- like the At the end of the day, engineers have a lot of Their decisions shape the world we live in, from we rely on daily. And the construction We hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, we Also we wanted to ask, if you want to have a 7th part of this Construction Mistakes Thank you so much for watching, and