This is real life firebending. We're also testing the melting through metal with my finger Starting with level one, This is 99% rubbing alcohol. Just a little bit. You just want to coat the sides. We drilled a hole in the This might break some things, but 3, 2, 1. My God, that's crazy. And that was just level one. Later in the video, we're making a flaming rocket a giant smoke cannon, I did not sign up for this. Onto the next level. This next experiment is I need you to rip this sponge put it in this container. Don't need this no more. Now, this is a can of butane, which is lighter fluid. Light it. We're adding a fencing to allow And once we spin it, it creates. A giant tornado effect, And if we put a balloon over it. Oh, my God. Onto the next experiment. Next we have two aluminum can experiments. For the first one, stuff you can buy At the hardware store. I'm gonna fill this up now, I need you to sand this coke can. That's pretty good. Now we've sanded off all the labels. Ooh. We're gonna put this in... instantly dissolving. That's crazy. Up next is aluminum can versus gallium. So the special thing about gallium is contact with any aluminum surface, it will melt the aluminum. We can put the gallium on top. Why don't you spread it around?.. Safety touch. We'll need some time for the so we'll check back on both aluminum This next experiment needs We'll just start with some Elmer's glue. You're pouring glue in the car? Hafu. Are you sure you're going We gotta trust science. Pour this into the cup. Shake it up. Let's hope this works. What if it goes into the engine? Into the engine? All right, we have our beautiful slime. Now, this should clean our car... Clean the cup holder. Clean up some dust here. Clean up some dust. Now let's clean the steering wheel... Look at that. It's sucking everything up. That's so, so gross. Now we have a brand new car. Completely cleaned with glue. This next experiment is This is our snake right here. It's just a mix of baking soda and sugar. What I need you to do is We want to pour this very concentrated. Ready? One, two, three. Carbon sugar snake come alive. So the sugar and the baking soda As the mixture burns, the carbon dioxide Gas is getting trapped inside, which is Making the sugar come alive. What are you gonna name your monster? Hafu? Big Willy? I'm sorry, my man. Cool thing about this, you can actually touch it after Yeah you can, peel it open, We basically made bread. Alright, on to the next experiment. This next experiment only This is what happens when you drop an egg Normally it breaks as expected. But when you put an egg and this is what happens. Our egg is now see through. And what happened here is the acid in the hard part of the egg shell, which became these bubbles. This is a before, and this is the after. Now, so the egg is actually bouncing. Look at this. That's so cool. Let's make a bet. Loser. How's you eat this? Make a bet on how high you think I'm gonna say here. You're gonna say higher than me... Then I'm gonna say here. Okay, ready? We'll go here. First. You're eating the egg. I'm closer. Oh, that's disgusting. That is actually disgusting. You're eating the egg. Honestly, it just tastes like pickles. Pretty cool science experiment. Very easy to do. Next, but we're gonna turn it All right. What does that mean? We need the lights off... So what I'm gonna need harder. Blow harder. Did you see that? Yeah, that was really cool. So when the flame blows out, there's actually leftover That's why when you add heat, This next experiment So I'm gonna need your help later. First, pour a little bit of water around. I said a little bit. Place this on top, which is gonna create a And while we wait for the fire to die out, I'm going to solve this The strength of this suction. Ooh, yeah, it's working. Nice! Place a Rubik's cube on top One, two, three. Last one. Hurry up. All right, there we go. What else can we place on top? Can we place this perfume can on top? Can we place this goggle on top? Can we place. Oh, okay. Now we can weigh out everything on top, The power of this tiny little candle. Next experiment. This next experiment is Should I be concerned? Just a little. You're gonna put some food covering Swirl around. And now we're gonna make me This is axe body spray. Every high school man's dream. Spray me. How does it smell? On the can of axe body spray, Woah that's cool Kind of like a flamethrower. But that's not our trick. Our trick is we're gonna use this All this water will instantly I like this. Whoa. And that's water suction. Is fire suction cooler or water suction? Water suction When we're sucking, it needs to be a little right? Yeah. Especially when it's red. Next experiment. So now we're gonna make When we put dry ice in water , it starts a reaction. Look at that. That looks pretty cool. We're gonna now screw on the cap and then stick the tube in. Not too far, though, just a little bit. And we'll just tape it. Look at that dry ice bubble. It's bouncing. We're dipping the tube The dry ice smoke gets which starts to form a bubble. And our goal is to Make the biggest bubble we can. Trust the process. Look how big this is. Look how big of this is. Next we have a chemistry experiment. I'm going to show you how to make grocery store ingredients. All you need is some yeast, which is for wounds, dish soap, So first, we just pour the hydrogen Talking about chemistry, so if you're still single, No more crying yourself to sleep Our sponsor, is here to help. Let's add a little bit of dish soap. and I'm going to add a dash of red food coloring to signify love. So coffee meets bagel is the It's made for those only looking If you download the app and you say they'll actually redirect you Im a very career focused person and So swiping through profiles might Thats why I love coffee meets bagels. Matching feature. Instead of endlessly swiping, you get suggested new matches For example, you can say you like girls Also they have an icebreaker less awkward for you to slide in. No more hey double y. Now let's continue. We have our yeasat. Let's add it to some warm water. The yeast would be the catalyst that One of my friends from university using coffee meats bagel. And from talking to all my they vouch that the people on wholesome than the other apps. Now, We add the catalyst into If you're single and looking download coffee meets bagel for free and get ready to start a chemical reaction of love. Whoa. Hopefully you don't explode All right, it's been over an hour. Let's check back on our Got the drain cleaner one right here. Let's pull this one first. Oh, look at that. It's smoking. So the drain cleaner has and the only thing that's It's a spongy can. That's so cool. This is a gallium can. We left it there for a couple hours. I noticed some interesting textures. Let's see what happens. So, this can has become destroyed. Give it a little squish test. Let's try poking through with our fingers. Oh, my God. We can basically crumple this can. It's like an aluminum croissant. Next we have two tiny air guns. So how this works, it's literally just A cup and a balloon You feel that? Yeah To see if it actually is working, let's light it on fire. Why does every experiment Cause fire is cool. Try blowing this out. There we go. That's pretty cool, right? Yeah Now let's step it up a little bit. That's huge. What are we blowing with that? Your mom? So what we can do is actually, and it will become a smoke cannon. Can just put the paper inside. Our smoke cannon is now loaded with smoke. We can aim and fire it. So we got bottles set up over there. Here's the challenge. Whoever knocks down the and the loser has to drink lemon juice. Okay, we get three shots each. Okay? Okay, I'll go first. Oh, you see that? Need to aim it a little lower. Let's see if you can beat that. There we go. Oh, my gosh. Come on. Got one last shot. Oh, my goodness. We did it! Shoot me, shoot me. Whoa. Whoa. Loser has to drink lemonade. This is lemon juice. It's not lemonade. This is so sour. Holy crap. So this is the world's most We need a different type of We need sunglasses. Mine are actually red because it cancels Let's test it on a balloon. How many balloons do you think Three Three? I think it will burn So I've even set up a match at the end Okay, ready? Yep. Let's see it. Oh, that was fast. 3, 4, 5. It kept going. Oh, my God. Six, seven Let me go a little closer. Oh, this laser is cool. And it was only, like, $70. Only? this next experiment only I'm sure you have some leftover, It's extremely dangerous. It's called fire hand. And in order for you to see this, All right, that's better. First, we're gonna squeeze the hand sanitizer onto our surface here, and then wet our hands so And then last step. A little bit more of hand Let's watch the magic happen. On to the next experiment. All right, We're gonna use everything we learned What does that even mean? Butane rocket. So, when it's combined with coke, Pace that it becomes rocket fuel. As my assistant, I need you to hold this. Wait, let me think about this. I don't want to blow you up. So what I'm doing is I'm just letting We now have butane in this container. It is kind of smoking outside, Can you see that? We're going to see how this goes. One, two, three. Okay, Okay, we're first going to fill up this and then we're going to pour On top, and then on the bottom, Once I flip this over, Butane rocket. One, two, three. Now we gotta do a bigger version of that, On fire? We only have one shot for this, and this is a big coke bottle. And, guys, again, do not try this at home. Now the butane is going I need you to step back. You're gonna light this on fire. You ready? Oh, my God. This is flaming butane rocket on 3, 2, 1. My God. Where did it go? How do you feel? That was scary! Science rocks! Guys. Let's keep this going. If you want to watch $1 click here to watch that video. And click here to watch a video