Few generals enjoy the reputation of Erwin for the Third Reich, he is sometimes described his enemies. His arrival in North Africa in His victories and panzers would make him a North African adventure ended in total defeat. Fox out of Africa? In January 1941, British victory in North Western Desert Force consistently pushed back the major Italian port of Tripoli. tatters, he approached Adolf Hitler for assistance. of secondary importance, but a total Italian alliance. Hitler agreed and on January 11 of Tripolitania. this request. Rommel was a rising star in during the invasion of France. His audacious unexpectedly behind the enemy, had earned - the Ghost Division. offensive in North Africa. His Afrikakorps to act as a Sperrverband - a blocking detachment penetration. Rommel's superiors in the Oberkommando reconnaissance patrols. Rommel sensed a loophole, in March. May and were exhausted after fighting the outflanked the British-led Eighth Army's tried but failed to reform the line, and they Tobruk, defended by Australian infantry, held and June came to little and, now at the end In any case, his superior, General Franz Halder, Although Rommel's insubordination frustrated Rommel to General of the newly formed Panzergruppe Afrikakorps and Italian XX Corpo d'armata. between Rommel and the Fuhrer - Rommel was But soon the limelight shifted away from North the Soviet Union. Hitler decreed the Libyan On the British side, new Western Desert Force other ideas. The hard-pressed Tobruk garrison launched Operation Crusader. After seaborne taking Rommel by surprise. the desert, especially the Sidi Rezegh airfield. gained the upper hand. Rommel now sensed the November 24, he personally took control of retreating British 7th Armoured Division - and the successes of early 1941 and trigger a His gamble, later called the dash-to-the-wire, Rommel advancing up to 60 kilometres, the Rommel must be reaching his supply limit. complete his dash and had to divert to Bardia took advantage of the 21st Panzer's absence troops in Tobruk. The dash to the wire may next few weeks, the 8th Army brought in fresh Rommel tried to counter-attack but realized pressure and ordered a retreat. At the end he started 9 months earlier. Undeterred, Rommel planned his next assaults. and developed a strong defensive position to capitalise on their success and so once On May 26, 1942, Axis forces moved towards turned his attention north, surrounding and which forced their withdrawal. The British reserves into holding the line. On June 21, original defences mostly disbanded. Panzers African defenders. A fortress that had previously Hitler was jubilant and Rommel was promoted "For every one of my "Africans", that war." (Barr) The battered Eighth Army, with barely 70 tanks Alamein. Axis forces continued to attack, Allied positions. R. I. Cunningham, an anti-tank a duel with a panzer on July 3: "The enemy... withdrew leaving five tanks [Panzer] IV, was stopped but not destroyed The Battery Commander... came up and told low... I expostulated but the Battery Commander meters... when an HE shell from the same tank wounding him seriously in the throat. I fear with just two more rounds." (Cunningham, Winston Churchill urged Auchinleck to counterattack, was exhausted. Churchill fired him for his Bernard Law Montgomery. Montgomery, though, needed rest and retraining, and the El Alamein the north and the impassable Qattara depression kilometers, which robbed Rommel of his ability revealed the German plan. Montgomery decided force Rommel's panzers towards Alam Halfa and artillery. Rommel fell into the trap. Losses were high With his health worsening, Rommel returned one reaching the end of his endurance. Desert resulted in widespread illness among German could have been treated early, many soldiers seeking help. A lance corporal with the 15th "Lads come here and after a couple of weeks to Germany. Still, they don't grumble about (Kitchen 313) the British seized the initiative. opened on October 23. Now on the offensive, getting through extensive German and Italian British-led units made progress, but the attack speeds and mine clearing took time. German British armour. But the Germans also suffered replacement, Panzer General Georg Stumme, recalled to deal with the crisis. Supercharge to break through German positions now hindered Montgomery's mobility, so, attack: prepared to accept one hundred per cent casualties British efforts paid off. After a grinding both sides, the Axis forces withdrew on November Hitler ordered Rommel to stand and fight - to this order and instead withdrew to the Tunisian the theatre. On November 8 Anglo-American Torch. Rommel was now fighting a two-front In Tunisia, Axis commanders became pessimistic, methods of manoeuvre. His German and Italian him to hold the Mareth Line, an outdated position. Kesselring remained confident a counterattack By January 1943, German high command was preparing The Allies continued their relentless advance, 23. The German army in Africa's strategic to Germany, but his army would not be given German troops surrendered. Hans Klein of the "The bombardment the Americans threatened broke our small arms over a tree. My company of our weapons in all directions... We hadn't there was nothing coming through. The water to continue the fight." (Klein, Center for The North African campaign is often viewed World War. The Afrikakorps themselves recognised Safari" conjured up images of a great African the Afrikakorps Panzers completed this distinct The tank largely defined warfare in Libya operations meant mechanised movement was the and equipment. For Rommel especially, the ambitious manoeuvre, and he saw his tanks British tanks dominated before the arrival 78mm armour, was impervious to Italian anti-tank cross-country. This limited mobility and increased conditions. Crew fatigue remained a significant Mobile cruiser tanks like the Vickers Cruiser tanks had a relatively weak 2-pounder gun, tanks. once German tanks arrived on the scene. Initially, and IIIs, with a smaller number of Panzer guns - ideal for attacking infantry but the Germans brought in specialised versions and the Panzer IV G, with an effective long British-led forces increasingly relied on - first the M3 Grant and later the M4 Sherman. more effective against armour and they could lacking in early British tanks. Britain also armed Churchill and an up-gunned Mark IV Crusader. of Tiger tanks. Protected by up to 120mm of speed, despite its weight. Its 88mm gun gave Tiger even recorded a Sherman kill from 2,700 as Major Luder of the 501 Panzer Section noted: units into action." (Kitchen 436) in North Africa. By the time it took the field, mountains, where ranges were shorter and terrain in the rainy season mud. They also did little a single Tiger could guzzle up to 10 litres conditions. was in fact only marginal. It was the way British Major-General Donald Bateman, Middle Germans had more confidence in their equipment "The Italians last year lost confidence a C.V. 3 Tank and said "No good - like not likely to do the same." (Roy 36) operated as separate units, taking on enemy Within each box was a panzer battalion, artillery, attacked, the box halted, and the tanks moved the enemy armour, while panzers manoeuvred tanks often made frontal charges, relying fire and mobility. To counter this approach, advantage. they had developed better cohesion between anti-tank priority to artillery. New 6-pounder and even the 25-pounder howitzer could be relied on anti-gun guns for direct tank-killing. in long-range desert conditions, but its height the British had a distinct advantage in artillery, a fact not lost on one German NCO: should not be allowed. Full stop." (Kitchen Despite later Allied superiority, earlier equipment, tactics and morale - so why did himself later blamed a lack of supplies, incessant and the Eighth Army's overwhelming superiority Supply certainly was a critical concern. Rommel's needed to be supplied over water, and British-controlled scale and lack of ports also meant local success being consumed for transport, and less potential for the enemy pushed back to their main ports. 40 percent of the supplies he needed between about it: a gun, the best guns are worthless without ammunition are virtually worthless if they petrol." (Kitchen 350) and even began to believe professional jealousy often made big promises but resupplying a ten times the transport of resupplying one Meanwhile, the British had a well-developed via the Cape of Good Hope and Suez Canal. exaggerated his supply issues. Historians 2.24 of the 2.67 million tons shipped to Rommel campaign, Rommel received 90 percent of his considered his supply allowance a minimum, isn't enough. Also, supplies arriving in arrived at the front, since there was a serious According to Giuseppe Mancinelli, the Afrikakorps habitually blamed the Italians for his woes. placed more pressure on his German troops, of lacklustre logistical efforts. divisions raised in Libya - formed a significant is also attributable partially to them. Others that Rommel's great 1941 victories were the Eighth Army. Italian signal intelligence the Mediterranean gauntlet. Later Rommel expressed were often poorly equipped. After losing the "In the Ariete we lost our oldest Italian demanded more than they, with their poor armament, 348) similar issues. Their force was also multinational, Indians, South Africans, Greeks, French and experienced tension between officers of different command issues were not unique to Rommel. his early campaigns he counted on reliable Desert Air Force. But as the campaign went needed elsewhere - such as bombing Malta. only on supporting the Eighth Army. By August superiority from the Luftwaffe, allowing heavier Then there was Rommel himself. His victories including from the British themselves. Once he told his commanders: is becoming a kind of magician or bogey-man about him. He is by no means a superman, although I wish for you to dispel by all possible means more than an ordinary German General." (Lewin Rommel's preference for leading from the scored early victories, especially against these methods earned diminishing returns. mistakes, but as the British became more confident, cautious, and by 1942 he had access to accurate - making surprise almost impossible for Furthermore, Rommel's methods worked best objectives were within range, which was not was a truly strategically decisive target, turned into a war of attrition, supply and some other German officers criticized Rommel commander. When taking personal control of a broader strategic view. For example, during with other units for several days. So, Rommel's defeat can be attributed to tension within his command, a two-front campaign, there was also one critical difference between - the theatre's relative importance. For Hitler, North Africa was always a sideshow. and Hitler's focus was firmly on the Eastern resources and attention. Although Hitler sometimes usually didn't support them. Kesselring, Rommel, and his supporters suggest they hobbled claim Rommel's commanders were much better the war effort and the theater's full significance. give the theatre more strategic value through of the Caucasus via the Middle East. This Imperial Japanese forces and severing vital the USSR, as well as capturing vital oil fields. long-term occupation, including Einsatzgruppen opponents, and others. Such activities had for example, Italian citizens and German troops and the Axis authorities set up a concentration single pogrom took place in 1945 when the authorities expelled the Tunisian Jewish population, These actions contradict the common belief "war without hate". tentative. Few German commanders considered occupation plans were haphazard. Although the Afrikakorps, it's unclear if their commander superiors consistently struggled to work the plan. It was also unclear what German victory preventing an Italian collapse, capturing ever more resources, troops and attention in comparison to which North Africa's significance referred to the whole theater as "Rommel's Meanwhile, for the British, North Africa was Humiliating defeats in France, Singapore, somewhere. Churchill likely considered victory survival - and he went so far as to put "Rommel! Rommel! What else matters but beating As a result, Allied forces received the attention, to succeed. strategic and political importance for the US entry into the war against Germany and Success in Africa also exposed what many hoped The invasions of Sicily and Italy, and with came soon after in 1943. and Tunisia marked the start of a clear road Though this road would still be long and costly. France to Operation Bagration and the Soviet 1945 until the Allies set their eyes on the was gearing up for their Berlin Operation. set-piece battle in the west, and the Battle of Allied soldiers stood at the ready to bring German reserves would have to defend. If you two World War 2 documentary series that together we cover the Battle for the lower Rhine from crossing of the Rhine that involved the biggest war. In 16 Days in Berlin we document the Both documentary series were filmed on original Forgotten Weapons or David Willey from the War in an uncompromising way that wouldn't you watch 16 Days in Berlin and Rhineland together with other creators. On Nebula we or advertiser guidelines and the viewers there videos - which by the way are ad-free and If you head over to nebula.tv/realtimehistory subscription right now and watch 16 Days in Original series Red Atoms about the Soviet from a growing number of Nebula Originals, where you can learn all kinds of different nebula.tv/realtimehistory for 40% off on annual History directly. We want to thank the Tank Museum for granting African campaign, in particular the Tiger in the world! If you want to see the tank a ticket for their Tiger Day event that's As usual you can find all the sources for you are watching this video on Patreon or it without you. I am Jesse Alexander and this only history channel that is ready to accept