- Okay. Why would anyone spend $1000 I like the Apple one. (David groaning) We just got an interview with Taeha Types. Thank you to Shopify for sponsoring a portion of this video. Okay, so if you Google Answer in Progress, one of the first auto completes you get is about mechanical keyboards. Oh. It used to be, I promise. Sabrina's got one, I've and I like my mechanical keyboard, but I don't actually know anything about mechanical keyboards. I just Googled keyboards and Turns out, it was a it is nice to type on. But I'm not alone in my of mechanical keyboards. It seems like more and more people in recent years are buying And recently, on my I came across these channels, forums, websites dedicated to and building luxury mechanical keyboards. I also saw that some of these keyboards were going for thousands of dollars. So, what's the fascination with this old-fashioned technology? Why is coming back into why would someone spend Let's figure it out. (upbeat funk music) So, there isn't a book I could just read about mechanical keyboards to and in my research reading articles and watching YouTube videos, I was able to learn the but I felt like I was I feel like just by doing some Googling and searching online, I haven't really been able to find what's at the heart of this and also what makes about mechanical keyboards and spend a lot of money on a good So, I have a plan. It's a very complicated plan, it's a very ingenious plan, and it's one that no one (dramatic music) - I get a lot of comments &quot;I watched one video of yours and then six months later, And I'm kind of like, sorry? - [Taha] This is David, He has a YouTube channel where he builds mechanical keyboards and - Screw it. Congratulations. - First of all, if your - Hey friends. Welcome back to the channel. - No, you don't. So I thought we'd start with the ones that I've had so far, getting your impressions of them, seeing what you like, what you don't like. My first keyboard was the Apple one. You know, I like it. (keys clicking) - There is like no travel here. It's like you're tapping I like that it's tactile. - So what is tactility? It's like the little pop - It's like that feedback that little bump that usually aligns with when the switch actuates. So I like that, but besides that, I hate everything else about this. - Well, I like it. - That's all that matters. No, that's not true. - [Taha] So my first mechanical - Mechanical switches! Let's actually see what they are. Cherry reds. I like the 75% layout as well. - Everyone in my house complained because it was really loud. - Oh, this is loud? - This was loud. - I think my standard for loud - So I went from that to this. You know, a little quieter and no one in my house complains anymore. - So problem solved? - Problem solved. - So we're done. - Okay. - Stabilizers are a little bit better. Um... They're still um... (keys rattling unpleasantly) (chuckles in disbelief) - So still not a fan? - Still not a fan, but I like it more. - That's the end of my - This is the start of - So you've got some (bang) Whoa. Oh! It's really heavy. - It's got a two-piece it has an internal brass weight. Ooh, okay! - I donno what these are - [David] These are the modifiers. - These are called modifiers. The non-square ones feel a lot better. - We'll keep it going. - This is a linear and It's kind of like bubble wrap. - That's actually not a bad description. Like, you kind of have to build up to it and then it just collapses into itself. - It's difficult to explain like the feeling of things on camera. - It is, isn't it? - The space bar is so nice. That's sick! I love this. - [David] This is the next one. - Wow. This is really quiet. - [Man] You're dressed up as that one. (Taha laughing) - Every single one, I'm like, wow. This doesn't have any of the keys. This is like half a keyboard. - Oh. This is a 60%. - So this is the Cherry MX browns. I think the thing that I'm most impressed with by is just the space bars. - It's such a world of difference from like (imitating clicking sound). Horrific. - I feel like a hipster. I love the look of this one. I would feel that like my fingers would get tired after awhile of these. And then you just have this one M key. (David giggling) I can now understand now that I'm here. They feel different, so I have a different - This is an SGI Granite. Instead of MX switches, - And these are switches These are really nice. I feel like the secretary (David laughing) - How do I get into this? Because I've clearly been and not like... - All of these comes from a custom kit. In the hobby, when we say a kit, we basically mean it's a case, a PCB, and a plate and you then buy your own stabilizers, and you basically build that - Okay so. Keyboard. I wanna use this keyboard afterwards. (Taha yelping) So, mechanical keyboards are made up of a few key components. You've got the PCB, the casing, the plate, which kind of make up the brains and the body of the keyboard. The casing sort of houses while the PCB is the that communicates with your computer. Every time one of the it completes a small electronic circuit, which sends a signal to your computer to let it know that one of But then you get to of a mechanical keyboard, the key cap and the key switches. The key cap is what you would normally think of when you think And learning more about this, you can get these in a variety of different shapes, sizes, materials. Basically, anything that can be customized can be customized about a key cap. There's even a thriving which are one-of-a-kind, sort of unique art pieces And in the process of I did order some new key caps, which was fun. And in the process of ordering that stuff, I ended up discovering this app by the sponsor of this video, Shopify. So, I decided to ask them if I could just talk about the app instead of doing a normal ad read, and they said yes, so now I'm just gonna do that instead. If you haven't heard of Shopify, it's a platform, you can it's very intuitive, there's It's really good. However, so basically, they have this app called Shop and what it does is it basically unifies all of your orders into one app. It plugs into your emails and like you can click through and you can see all the details. Everything that you need is right there and you don't have to go into your emails, and find the tracking number, and then look at a website that was developed by one guy in 2007. We love it. You can ask it to send notifications when stuff has shipped, The whole shabang. The app also surfaces returns policies, so it becomes really see if you can still return or even if it's arrived. It's all in the app and it's great. So basically, it's the best You can find more and the Shop app in the So thank you to Shopify and letting me talk to you about my favorite new app instead and on with the rest of the video. But pretty key caps aren't the only exciting part of a mechanical keyboard. What's underneath it, the key switch, is arguably just as interesting. This little thing is what makes a mechanical keyboard, well, mechanical. (switch clicking) When I spoke to Glarses I started to realize that goes with them. It's hard to pinpoint the objective origin of mechanical keyboards. Manufacturers were experimenting with a variety of mechanical mechanisms. As time progressed, room-sized machines owned by large corporations and universities. They became smaller and more affordable. This meant more demand for keyboards, so manufacturers looked to increase production rates and cut costs. This resulted in membrane keyboards, which use cheaply produced (keyboard snapping) Well, I mean, that was the take. These cheap membrane keyboards produced a mushy, rubbery feeling rather than a satisfying click of a mechanical switch. This new form of keyboard was marketed as a quieter typing experience, but its main popularity While many mechanical keyboard companies folded or switched to companies like Cherry, now the most popular switch continued producing mechanical switches. While the typing experience worsened due to membrane keyboards, it generally didn't matter to most people. Personal computers were still seen as a productivity tool, and used for professional work rather than a personal electronic device. So, buying keyboards for home and offices was the main concern. However, as we began to use and as our lives and identities intertwined themselves with technology, people started to view their devices as an extension of themselves, personalizing their devices As a result, in the late 2000s, early signs of the modern keyboard hobby started to flourish in This is considered by many as the start of the modern keyboard hobby. So, the boards on the OTD forums were only ever sold in Korea and in but in time, the US got their own forums and it's on these forums that people started to experiment of different switches. And what they found is if they combined different pieces they could create a Frankenstein switch. (spookily) oooooh! And it's from this type of experimentation that we got fan favorite like the Holy Panda. So, the Holy Panda started where people would have to take two different switches and put but because of their popularity, people started to manufacture the specifications of a Holy - The creation of Holy Panda I guess accidentally created the switch that everybody wanted to try. One of the main sound tests and ways people probably heard of a Holy Panda, and I've kind of mentioned was the Taeha Types sound test, which was his Fjell with Holy Pandas, so much so that most people say, you know, you watch this video once and you're done. You're into the hobby, (keys clicking) That really set it sky high as like the first big Frankenstein switch. - So during this time, the mechanical keyboard started to become (intense electronic music) And it kind of makes sense because those are the types of people to spend a lot of money on computer hardware to have their optimal gaming setup for their zero millisecond so they can get owned in And with the rise of popularity in the gaming community, we saw a massive boom in a type of switch called the Cherry MX switch. If you've ever tried to you were probably given the whether it was a red switch, a blue switch, or a brown switch. - I don't think too many people would fight you in saying that Cherry MX, or Cherry as a brand, are probably the most important player in mechanical keyboards and The Cherry MX patent expiring was probably the most important milestone for the explosion of boutique - The Cherry patent an environment modifier, Because now that the you could take the original design and you could modify it and remix it and then you have a new And this caused the rise such as Gateron making new switches in the Cherry MX style which is always good, I guess. But also, we saw the rise such as Zeal and NovelKeys. And so we got this whole new wave of innovation of people making modified Cherry MX style switches. - People really liked the Ergo Clear, but didn't like the effort You know, you needed two sets of keyboards where you needed to open and Zeal basically said, okay, I'm gonna go make the first manufacturer community-made custom line of switches. That switch was so, so, it was the first switch - And now we get to the craziest part of this whole story, the Stealios controversy. Bum, bum, ba! So basically, Zeal, one of was creating this switch It was a boutique switch that was sold through a variety of So basically, Zeal would that they were allowed to resell the switch that they were producing. However, one of these counterfeit Zealios. Bum, bum, ba! So, they were actually an However, they were selling supplied by Zeal, so they were getting some knockoff Zealios from somewhere. But the counterfeit Zealios, otherwise known as Stealios 'cause they stole the design of it, were almost identical in feel, experience, and design to the point where it was so hard to tell the difference. And the quality was So people started wondering who was the manufacturer behind the I guess if you can produce you can produce your own and that's exactly what happened. So many more people saw and decided to make their switches from that manufacturer. Literally crime does pay. What is this story? And that takes us all the way up to now. There's been this explosion of switch designs and a and the whole scene is bursting with unique designs and new and exciting ways to try out the hobby. There's different form factors, different tactile feedback, and custom and artisan key caps. - Seriously, if you haven't I strongly recommend it. It's not as hard as you think and you really end up with this thing that you can really say I built this thing that I know use to type on every day. It's really cool. Nowadays, you can go that looks nothing like or build a board that And now it's my turn. So, what are we building? - Which ones do you feel Let's just eliminate a few first. - So I'm trying to find How do I do this? - You type on them, and then and you keep typing on them until there's one that just shines - I'm like hypnotized by this. (David laughing) - It's good, isn't it? - I was like (sighing). This sounds like walking (keys clicking) I think this one's gotta go. I'm gonna get rid of this. It's just not satisfying. You're fired. I think, honestly, this keyboard for me. This is like popping bubble wrap all day and that is a very nice feeling. So I think I'm gonna go - It's the winner. I mean, I guess the closest thing we can build your keyboard then - So these are the Holy Pandas I've been hearing so much about. Okay. If I'm honest, they just look I'm excited. Cool! - Today, we are building Do the honors. - It's a very fancy box. - It's lovely. - Doing an unboxing on YouTube channel. (David chuckling) What am I looking at? - So, this is foam, this is more foam, this is more foam. This is our PCB, which is kind of our... - [Taha] This is the brains. - Brains of the keyboard. It's hotswap. Okay... that's not a problem. - So this is, oh my God, I'm gonna have to stand up for this. (David laughing) This is really heavy. This is a real keyboard. - [David] Now we have to stab this open. (David laughing) (plastic popping) - There you go. - So the first thing you need to do when building a keyboard is So these are our stabilizers. - So like, the space bar doesn't wobble because of this? You wanna increase smoothness and we want to remove rattle. - I'm so scared of breaking it. - Honestly, you won't break it. And if you do, we have more. (David giggling) These ones are a bit finicky. Let me do this one. There you go. (David laughing) You actually need to snap this off 'cause it's two individual ones that will connect by cable. - I was scared of breaking these. (suspenseful music) - There you go. Now, this is the fun part. We get to put a switch on. - What exactly are we doing? (David laughing) - I'm pressing it to make sure it feels consistent throughout the press. Make sure there's no like So this will probably be the part where you speed up 14,000%. - I think it'll be funner (keys clicking) click. Just like (imitating clicking). This is the last one? - Mhm. - [Taha] Done. - [David] Geez. - Completed keyboard, guys. - [David] That is a pretty keyboard. - Key caps. Eight. Six, seven, eight. - [David] It's actually It's the wrong eight, also. That's the num pad eight. - I tried. - Q, W, E, R, T, Y, U. - I have B and I wanna put it next to A. (David chuckling) I think these are the real winners. (dreamy music) - Before A. (David clapping) - We did it. So this is my new kaybo- keyboard? - [David] This is your new cable. - In comparison to my first ever keyboard. (keys clicking) - Let's take that away from you. (keys clicking) - My first foray into (keys clicking) For context, I'm not like doing Whenever I watch these videos online, I always think they're and then they like go soft (keys clicking) - I think the stabilizers are probably the biggest difference. It's an easy mod you can Once your ears are open to Like, you don't know it's but once someone tells you it exists and it doesn't have to, it's game over. - I guess I'm done with this keyboard. (David laughing) (keys clicking) Do you know what I typed? - Please subscribe to Glarses' channel. - I actually did type Please subscribe. - Oh! (keys clicking) - To the Glarses channel. Thanks for doing this. - No worries. Thank you for helping me. This was fun. - Can I keep this? - Yeah, sure. Just pay me the amount for the keyboard and we can, you know... - How much is this keyboard? - Probably like $650. - Wow. So, be sure to subscribe to our Patreon. (Taha laughing) I was just about finish work, but then I got an email from the king of mechanical keyboards himself. We just got an interview with Taeha Types. Oh my God! Hello. How's it going? - Hi. Nice to meet you, Taha. - This is Taeha Types, arguably one of the most influential mechanical keyboards creators on YouTube. He has sound tests for seemingly every switch on the market and has built luxury mechanical keyboards for the likes of LilyPichu, Dave2D, and Tfue. So basically, I've been on a for the last month of two. - So you're really fresh? - I'm really fresh, yeah. Here's like the central This is where I started from. Why would anyone spend (Taeha chuckling) - I think something that I've just come to realize is there are that I use quite a lot. I have a Herman Miller Aeron chair and most people would say, why would you spend that much on a chair? But like, if you think I'm sitting on a chair more than half of my day sometimes, And as someone who does spend their time in front of a keyboard for many hours a day, I think it is people used to not think of the keyboard as something that could be invested in, but with the recent popularity I think many of us are starting to realize the keyboard can be - I definitely didn't really how much of a difference the or even a modded mechanical keyboard is from just off the shelf - The keyboard hobby is where you have to try it in person to really understand, I feel like. No matter how many videos you watch, no matter how many sound nothing really beats trying it and experiencing it in person. I kind of went through After I felt my first one, I was like, okay, this is addicting. (Taeha chuckling) I see why people spend a - Why do you think the hobby has like exploded in popularity? - I mean, I think my Tfue He is still probably one of I think the pandemic hit three or four months after my Tfue build came out and everyone started to work from home and I think people overall were just consuming more content People started to care about 'cause everyone's working from home, they wanna treat themselves a little bit, everyone's socially deprived, they're trying to feel something so I think the pandemic for sure also played a great part in the recent rise of the hobby. - I think, also, I think during the pandemic who had never, ever thought about a work setup. Like, they had always or in an office. - It's an interesting time for newcomers. I feel like it's both for people trying to get The hobby's kind of going through growing pain phase as everyone's trying to scale up to accommodate There is that customer experience aspect that might rub people the wrong way. One of the first confusing terms you might hear in the and that's what the hobby You can think of a group buy essentially as kind of a Basically, individuals putting on a project idea. We're not mass producing It's individuals running It can take months, sometimes years. We are seeing years for certain projects. You need to have a lot of You should expect at least just to call it safe as of now. - What do you think is the future of the mechanical keyboard hobby? - I think there's still a ton Everyone is still so hooked onto the Cherry MX design style. I think it's gonna be interesting to see the new types of switches I mean, I'd love to see I mean, who knows. Maybe we'll have like an SD card reader or extra USB ports on a keyboard one day. Meet-ups, maybe now's to advocate for meet-ups, but I got a lot of questions saying like, where do you find these meet-ups, how do I go to a meet-up? Honestly, if you have an I would say go for it. Everyone's just looking for someone to take that initiative. So if there are no meet-ups feel free to organize something. It's still a very friendly - Meet-ups sound really exciting. I've never been to a meet-up. The only person I've met who's interested in mechanical keyboards is Glarses. - You kind of had a mini - I guess I never really thought about going to a meet-up. I was like, meet-ups sound really cool, but it's probably for people - I mean, that was me too. It still feels nerdy to say I'm going to a keyboard meet-up. (Taeha giggling) But I think the first one that I went to just really left a nice impression on me, just like how friendly everyone was, just being able to try and even like just touch all of these that I've been seeing online. Hopefully, once the world opens up more, we'll have more of those, but if you can go to a meet-up, highly recommend you do. Meet-ups are probably the next big thing for raising even more - So, in the process of making this video, I've been trying to figure out how to explain why the is so appealing. And I think it's everything that everyone has mentioned already. It's the fact that you that is completely unique to yourself, but it's also the fact that a custom mechanical keyboard is just so much better than anything you can find off the shelf. And with how digital our lives are and how much time we having a lovely keyboard that looks and feels like yours has brought a small joy into a part of my life that is usually so mundane. But honestly, it's been really why this hobby is so appealing, but once you put a custom in front of someone and they type on it, I think you get it immediately. Everyone I've shown my yeah, I get it now. But also just personally, with technology becoming increasingly proprietary and sealed off and with big tech companies consuming basically the whole of seeing the mechanical keyboard hobby remain a small community of designers, hobbyists, and enthusiasts just making keyboards because they love it has been a breath of fresh air. And I think that's beautiful. And yeah, while you can spend $1000 on a mechanical keyboard, You can build a nice for a lot less than that And honestly, I would one custom mechanical because it's such a unique experience. In fact, in the process our editor, Joe, built his own custom mechanical keyboard for the first time and I think he agrees. It's just something that you - [Joe] It is so cool and I - Anyway, thank you for If you like what we do, you And if you don't have a you can subscribe to our newsletter where we give out free and potentially some keyboard ASMR. Anyway, thanks for watching keyboards. (bell ringing)