This time we will be designing an 80 mm ducted propellers. So let's start all its necessary parts. You can download the files from the website, All these parts are printable on any 3D printer. The propeller shown here has six blades, but and 12 blades for testing. I've already 3D printed all the parts with So let's begin with the assembly of the ducted First I will remove all these supports which So start with the easiest support, which can Now for the complex support, use a set of Grab the support with a nose plier and twist Don't try to pull it, else it may damage the Keep twisting it from all the sides until Use a wire cutter to cut the extra support. Once all the support material is out, you'll to the flat surfaces. So, use a wire cutter and remove all of them. After removing all the support material, the When compared to the 100 mm ducted fan, this Both the casings are of similar shape, only The 100 mm casing has an O-ring present at strength. while it's been eliminated from the 80 mm Now we will remove support from the propeller. This is a 3-inch propeller with six blades. It is designed for any motor which has a shaft Now grab a wire cutter and carefully look Look carefully as both the blade and the supports Then place the wire cutter on the support the blade. the six blades. If you haven't watched my 100 mm ducted fan a look. Now to remove the hub support, place the nose After twisting it two to three times, it will and now the propeller is ready. On comparing it with the four-inch propeller, This 4-inch propeller has thicker blades than Now talking about the three-inch propeller, an important part in the functioning of the I'll tell you how attached to the propeller, you could see the no way for air to get inside the motor vents. usage. We will be using a 2500 KV racer star motor To check the thrust test of the motor, click When we attach the motor to this propeller, These grooves will push the air inside the Now we will begin the assembly of the ducted So here is the diffuser, which has a slot Here is the nozzle part of the ducted fan. Now take the motor and open its nut. Then take the propeller and attach it to the Try to attach it in such a way that the motor will help with faster cooling of the motor. and once we get the position, tighten the Once the assembly is finished, spin the propeller Then take the diffuser cap and place it on and make sure that the diffuser is perpendicular Now it's time to attach the motor to the outer So first match the screw holes and then fix the motor shaft. I'm using M3 screws of 10 mm length. I have not attached the other two screws yet, So grab the nozzle, insert the two screws The last part is to take out the motor wires The assembly of the EDF is completed, and Before attaching the EDF to the test rig, So, first, take four M3-diameter nuts and These nuts will help in attaching the EDF Now wind the motor wires together and place I'm using eight screws of M2.5 diameter and After connecting it, the EDF will have a flat First I will calculate its weight. So this is the test rig which I made in the needed to lift this arm in the mid position. and that's around 115 grams. So the total ideal weight becomes 230 grams. Now attach the EDF to the test rig and connect mm length. Now the EDF is ready for testing. The string I've used here transfers the force I'm using a 40 Ampere ESC and a Wattmeter Here is the lock screw of the test rig, to and a servo tester to control the EDF to fix the spring balance. This is the spring balance, which can weigh To check the full video of the trust test So, before starting this test, make sure to I am connecting an 11.1 Volt lithium-ion battery Switch on the spring balance and start the The maximum thrust we got was 265 grams at Adding the ideal weight to lift the arm, i.e., grams at 25.33 amperes. the 8-blade propeller. First remove the diffuser part by pulling and then hold the motor from the bottom and Once the nut is out, pull out the propeller. Now I am using the 3-inch propeller with eight So, attach it to the motor and fix it with Once the nut is tight, put the diffuser back Now we will begin the thrust test of this So, switch on the spring balance and connect The maximum thrust we got was 250 grams at and adding the ideal weight, we get a total Now I'm going to replace this propeller with This is a 3-inch propeller with 12 blades. I've already removed all the supporting materials and now I'll attach it to the motor. Now let's begin the trust test on it. We get the maximum thrust at 245 grams at and on adding the ideal weight, we get a total Now the trust test has been completed, it's So I will check the temperature difference part. The current temperature of the motor is 45.9 and now I will run the motor without the diffuser So, I have run the motor for about 10 seconds, The temperature came around to be 39.6 degrees less than the previous one. are working correctly. The thrust test of EDF has been completed, The 6-blade propeller produces the maximum while the 12-blade propeller produces the of 1.67. On observing carefully, you'll see that by of the motor is decreasing and the current This means that, on increasing the number increases and the current consumption of the efficiency. We can conclude that the 6-blade propeller 1.73, which is neither too low nor too high Keeping that in mind, the motor which I've and EDF requires a high-torque motor. I've also tested this EDF with a 3-bladed to lift the arm, so I have skipped that part So next time I will only put up an EDF video than this one. And don't forget to subscribe so you won't If you enjoyed this video, then give it a And make sure to check out my other videos. So like ,share and subscribe to the channel. Thanks for watching and have a nice day.