- Our next guest is one and most awarded gospel She's incredible. She's got 15 Grammys, 31 Dove Awards, seven NAACP Image Awards, and tens of millions of records sold. Her brand new live album is called &quot;More Than This,&quot; and it's out now. Please welcome the legendary (applause) I had no idea because we've I'm such a fan, but I was watching earlier and I was like, are we the same height? I thought for some reason in my brain, you were just very tall. - I'm not tall at all. - You're my height. I And just like Griffin, CeCe, you also know somebody in my band because earlier this year, Jason arranged for his protege Jew to perform with CeCe for You were like his biggest - He was incredible. - [CeCe] He was incredible. - [Kelly] He just jumps on any instrument. - [CeCe] I mean not intimidated I mean, he actually took - Yeah, he did that here. And all of a sudden he was like, &quot;I'm gonna try this out.&quot; And he just kept going and I was like, okay, I was like, wait, what? - He's amazing. But It was really, really awesome. - Thank you for doing that because I know we all have busy schedules, and it's cool when you take the time and you have the time to do that. So it meant the world to him. Speaking of young talent though, your grandson is following in - I don't know about this. - He has passion. Wait, we have video of Wyatt Watch this. Look at that face. You are my trouble Be here and know Know you are God - [Speaker] Sing, Wyatt. Than I and blessed are my soul - He's good, oh, this is my part. I love it. There's nothing like the sound that stirs my soul, I love it. - It's the best. Kids That's awesome. And speaking, there's so Any singers in your family? - By fluke of nature, no one Sounds, I don't know, I She sounds like... She sounds like Bessie Smith or something. I mean, she's got a voice, this huge voice and sings blues and jazz And particularly is interested from the '40s and '50s. Knows all the words. - From the time she was like six or seven, just building out your I know that look, it's a lot of fun. - It's so beautiful. It is interesting what your kids end up going to as well because and all of a sudden he to Ray Charles in his room on Alexa. He asked, I could hear him I was like, I'm sorry, what? He was like seven at the time. And I was like, what? And he heard it in some soundtrack And then it turned him into It's amazing what they cling to. But they like the good stuff, So this is your second live album. - Second live album. - What do you love about live records? And I have a question because when you do the live album, I think for me, whenever after I tour it and I live with it a bit, I almost wish I could rerecord the album because it's a different thing. - Well, first of all, - Oh, thank you. Can I just say that? - Well, coming from you, that is huge. So thank you. Thank you. But I'm like you, I like studio records because you can listen And live, you already know, You do what you do. But there's nothing like the audience. - Energy of it. with the audience, it's just the best. - And how a song can It could be the same song that but you do it live. - Totally different. - And even it depends on the audience. Like one audience can really, like, they needed this message, they needed to sing this with you. - Every night it can be different. You're doing the same show, but it can all flow differently. And when they're singing along with you and they're ready to celebrate, you get this energy and it's just like, you're there to be a blessing to them, but you always leave fired up. - Oh my God, I mean, it sounds so cheesy, but every time, I don't even with acting too, but every time, every time I get to do, like, we just did a random It was like a couple and a vocal and that's it. And it was like, what a gift. What a gift to be able to do this, like how lucky are we that we get to, even if it's not being paid, you have the ability to be able to be a vessel for something like that. It's the most, you can't describe it. - You can't, it's a gift And to be able to use and to share good news and to bring life. Because music is so powerful-- - And healing. - Yeah, it's very healing. Very healing. So it's an honor. It's a privilege. - Yeah. Now performing her new single, &quot;That's My King&quot; of her live give it up for CeCe Winans (applause) Ooh, ooh I wish I could tell you, But I can't contain it, There aren't enough colors Not enough words to Wonderful and beautiful He is merciful and powerful Who we talking about, that's my king Hey, we declare the glory Give him all the honor Altogether worthy Who we talkin' about, that's my king There's no one before you Yes, we will adore you All of this is for you Who we talkin' about, that's my king Jesus, you're my king, hey I'm not letting the rocks cry Without joining the chorus There aren't enough It's the song of the angels, angels Through all of the ages, ages It's all of the earth Wonderful and beautiful He is merciful and powerful Who we talkin' about, that's my king Hey, we declare the glory Give him all the honor Altogether worthy Who we talkin' about, that's my king There's no one before you Yes, we will adore you All of this is for you Who we talkin' about, that's my king That's my God That's my shepherd My protector That's my king That's my rock That's my anchor My defender Who we talkin' about, that's my king Hey, we declare the glory Give him all the honor Altogether worthy Who we talkin' about, that's my king Who we talkin' about, that's my king Who we talkin' about, that's my king Who we talkin' about, that's my king Who we talkin' about, he's my king Who we talkin' about, king of glory Who we talkin' about, king forever Who we talkin' about, that's my king Who we talkin' about, that's my king (applause) - Once more, give it up with CeCe Winans, and her live conceert is available right now, We'll be right back just in a minute.