Hi. My name is Jordan Keao. I'm the Chef de Cuisine here at Butcher's Block, Singapore. So I was born and raised in Hawaii, where everybody hunts, fishes, kind of farms, lives off the land. So I never thought of it as a career until I got older and started to travel. And then I realised that I could actually do this as a profession, which was quite exciting. as a young kid, I got to have my coffee before I start the fire. So right now, just moving around the coals leftover from last night. So you can feel it's still super hot, even though it's been off for 12 hours. for 12 hours. We just use charcoal to get it started. Once it's started, wood takes over and it's all wood-powered after that. I started my career at 18 and started going to culinary school at the same time, at the same time, around the world for regional Hawaiian I worked for him doing both at the same time, sped up my progress because I was working Here at Butcher's block, the primary cuisine and focus of the restaurant is wood-fire. Everything is tailored around wood-fire. And of course, my background being from Hawaii, there's a lot of Hawaiian influence in the menu. And because we do all of our own butchery, whether it's plants, animals, fish, sustainability is a very, very big part of the restaurant and zero waste. So once the coals start lighting on fire, I can start topping up the wood. It's important when you're working with wood-fire when you stack and you build, you don't smother the fire. Oxygen is really important to help the fire grow. So when I stack my wood, I spread it out, stack it crisscross-wise so that there's even airflow all the way through. And then this will get the fire going. So this is (from) our local farm that just got delivered. Obviously, it's nice to work with local produce, but it's also important when we get the ingredients something like this, we actually have to water and maintain it. So we've got some mustard frills some baby radish, our crispy lettuce. And then we'll display and grow it in the restaurant. And then we'll pretty much cut what we need as we need it. For butchery, I have about ten years of experience butchering. There's a lot of respect on how you're going to utilize that ingredient. not waste anything. when it comes to butchering an animal. And as you're doing it, you're already have a plan of what you're going to use each piece in each part for. And I think that's very important is having the plan so that when the animal does come in, you already know where everything is going. It's all mapped out and ready to go. So experience is key. But planning ahead is very important. This is the lamb that we get from Margaret River. We age it for 1 to 2, maybe even three weeks before we start to butcher it. And then when we butcher it, we butcher it into the leg, shoulder rack, and the saddle. And it's all used for different parts on our menu. the idea is to give the guests the more refined version of a dish, given that this is a very rustic whole-animal that's being presented to them. the tenderloin can't really be aged because it's so small. So we remove the tenderloin and then we serve it that day. It's really best that it's, at its freshest moments. Certain things are good for dry aging certain things you just really want to serve right away. He can actually lift it by himself. So this is Rick. Rick has been with me for three years, since the beginning of the restaurant. I'm lucky enough to have someone like him who's taken over all of our butchery. and he's training the new guys and the younger staff that come in and join us on how we butcher and how we approach whole animal butchery. So we bring in whole pigs from Western Plains, Australia. And they come in primals. So we have legs, shoulders and belly. We usually will dry age the pork for a couple of weeks before we start to butcher it, because as you can see right now, it's just so wet. now, it's just so wet. and ideally, if it's drier, all that flavour is more concentrated. So we source our ducks locally from Malaysia. So we source our ducks locally from Malaysia. We try to source as locally as possible. Malaysia has some beautiful ducks. Definitely love the flavour of it. We also get the whole ingredient. The feet, the neck, the head, everything. which is a big philosophy for the restaurant. The whole animal butchery and using every single part of the ingredient. Even the beautiful crispy duck tongue. So we do this process every Wednesday. After we receive the ducks, we age them for five days. So first, we're gonna just remove the wing. the wing will go to a couple of different things. the wing will go to a couple of different things. Sometimes it goes to jus our new summer menu. We're going to be using it on the whole duck dish. And then when we're finished, just a nice, beautiful crown. And then we're going to age that. It's important that when we age the crown we're going through the neck and we're opening up the airflow for the carcass. I mean, when it comes to butchery and also with wood-fire, I mean, experience is so crucial. You know, you could be doing something for a year, but then how often throughout the year you're doing it, are you butchering every single day in that year? If you are, then you can pick up a lot of stuff in just one year. cooking with wood-fire. You need to be around it. In it. experiencing the temperature changes, the variables for many years. Alright. So after the whole lamb is dry-aged for about 1 or 2 weeks, I'm going to now butcher it into legs, shoulder, rack and saddle. And then we're going to buttermilk brine it for 48 hours and the buttermilk just tenderises it adds a lot of flavour. Of course because it's a brine. There's salt inside. So it's going to infuse it with salt and get it nicely seasoned. Just going remove the neck. Okay. That's it for the lamb. So here's a lamb shoulder, lamb leg. We have the lamb rack. Lamb ribs. Lamb saddle. And then our lamb trimming that we'll use in our lamb jus. So the entire animal getting served. Hi chef. Hi morning. How are you? So here we have the short loin that we're going to hot smoke in here. In the meantime, we're going to start hanging all of our slow-roasted items. so we'll be hanging duck, our bones. even a suckling pig. We have a special request for a suckling pig today. So we're going to hang that today. It's going to be a busy, exciting day. So even our fish bones will dry and smoke above the fire. And then we use that in our fishbone jus. So we try to use everything as much as possible. Obviously we try to maximise flavour. And I truly believe that good flavour takes time. And I truly believe that good flavour takes time. So as you can see now, the fire is raging. A lot of oxygen, a lot of wood. It's only been about 30 minutes since we started it, and it's already crazy. So now we're going to close it and then you'll see a lot more smoke coming out of the chimney. And as the smoke comes out of the chimney, that's going to flavour all the ingredients that we're hanging here. So we dry age our duck breast for a minimum of 21 days. So right now what he's doing is we're gonna torch the skin to start that rendering of the fat. And with that rendering of the fat, we get a nice crispy duck breast, The duck fat slowly renders as it hangs for about 4 to 5 hours. So that slow rendering process means that fat just gets thinner means that fat just gets thinner and thinner and thinner. And that flavour is beautiful. Even things like cold smoking butter doesn't melt, but it takes on that smoke flavour, so it adds a nice flavour to our sauces. And then we have our pork short loin that's smoking. This will go for about a whole day until it reaches 48 degrees. So this is Anson. Anson is our sommelier for the restaurant. What's up, Anson. How's it going? Yeah, good. How are you, chef? so Anson helps curate the wine list for the restaurant, as well as our digestif trolley. Just looking to have a wine program that's very versatile. matches the flavours of the restaurant. So in Butcher's Block, we are not only focused on something common, like just port, armagnac or cognac. We also have a lot of Madeira. So this is our restaurant whiskey. So this is our restaurant whiskey. So this is the Eagle Rare Kentucky Whiskey special for our restaurant. Good morning everyone. Good morning Xin Yi, So lunch today, we are standing at 11 pax. The first table we have at 12:00PM. The last table will be at 2:00PM. That's for my side. Menu updates. Notice that it says Blackmore Farm Wagyu beef. Okay, so it's the rump which is from the leg of the cow. which is from the leg of the cow. it's slow-cooked at ambient heat and then marinated in Koji as well. But we're going to run this, for this week But we're going to run this, for this week and then everything else on the IMUA is as per normal. Dessert, no changes. So chocolate tart for special occasions today we will be doing a lot of prep and production in the kitchen to get ready for the summer IMUA launch. Let's have a good service. 123 IMUA. The fire's going now. Almost ready for lunch service. Start getting ready. So, right in front of you we call this The Larder So as you can see, we have executed different kind of the animals. we have executed different kinds of animals. And we have a zero wastage philosophy. Also a Hawaiian and a wood-fire restaurant. Check-in, One poke, one whole duck. Alright check-in, fire one bread and butter. Alright, check-in one poke, one whole pork. All right, let's go ahead and fire lamb tacos please. yeah. Just be careful. It doesn't drip on top of here. bringing that ohana feeling into the restaurant, which to me is the epitome of hospitality. which to me is the epitome of hospitality. And the word 'aloha' gets used a lot in Hawaii. for us, aloha really translates to just giving without expecting anything in return. So our tasting menu is called IMUA, which means to move forward with strength and spirit, which is the attitude I want every chef and every service team member to have when they approach every day, so that every day I know that my guests are getting the best experience, the best-tasting food Hello thank you very much for joining us. For your next course, here we have the dry-aged duck. There're three different parts of the duck. We have the dry-aged breast, the crispy duck tongue and the leg that's grilled with Chinese barbecue. And the bones we actually roast above the fire and we use that to make our duck jus. The duck jus seasoned with the 1990 Madeira. Thank you. You're very welcome. Alright, so it's the end of the lunch service right now. And we're closing down, letting the fire burn down a little bit. and we're getting set up. (getting) a few things ready for dinner service tonight. So we open up for dinner at 6:00PM. the chefs will take a break before then. the chefs will take a break before then. now it's all about getting ready for dinner. Hello. I hope you enjoyed everything. Everything's great. Bye Bye. Thank you. Cheers. Thank you. Break time. So we use a lot of dried herbs here in the restaurant. This is dried curry leaves. we'll use this to smoke.. And you'll see the smoke come out of here and really infuse all the flavour around and really infuse all the flavour around the ingredients. And then here's the leg of lamb. after roasting for 4 or 5 hours all day, it's finally ready at 6:00PM for service. Okay. Briefing everybody. All right Xin Yi, start us off. Good evening everyone. Good evening Xin Yi. So dinner tonight. We are currently standing at 16 pax. First seating we have one table, 4 tables at 7:00PM two tables at the second seating. The Last table will be at 8:15PM. And yup, I think that's all for my side. And yup, I think that's all for my side. Menu updates, We'll start with the IMUA. Remember, we're still on the Westholmes Striploin for the main course. We really want to try to push this as it increases guest experience, so please recommend this as the signature menu to offer. We do have uni of course back on with the beef fat fried mantou. Special occasions tonight? We can do mochi. Mochi? so we'll do mochi matcha as the special occasion. for the most part, restaurants are slow. But we did a really, really good job last week as far as sales, so try to push that the best you can. This week I know is looking a little slow, so chefs watch the production. Like every day you just prep what you need for that day. Everything a la minute if you can like there's no need to get too far ahead. As in the reservations are quite manageable. Thank you very much for a good last week. Because there is growth in the kitchen. Just be mindful of firing time will be longer. It will take us a little bit longer to get to where we need to be. so just please be mindful of that. Let's have a good service tonight. 123, IMUA. So right now we're getting ready for dinner service. Just opened our doors to greet our first guest fires are primed and ready to go. Alright check-in two tempura, one Little Joe, 200 Westholme. To me, wood fire dining is something that is undeniably attractive. is undeniably attractive. is very, very, very important. I just think this is unique in the fact that you're able to cook things right then and there and then serve it to the guests, then and there and then serve it to the guests, And I think a lot of guests They're adventurous. We do have a lot of a story behind but I think it's unique because we're bridging wood fire and Hawaiian cuisine, which is not something that I have actually Standby the fire, 27, one potato, one icon. Check-in, two IMUA. Chef's table for the two ladies. Alright, So right now it's the end of dinner service. It's about 9:15PM. Last order just went out, so we're going to start taking down the bones for sauces tomorrow. Fire will burn down and we'll start cleaning up. So right now we're straining our chicken jus at the end of the day. So it's the base for all of our sauces. All of our duck jus, lamb jus, pork jus. We use this chicken as the base. and of course, we start at the beginning of the day. We let it simmer all day, and then at the end, we have a beautiful golden stock. It's a lot harder than buying the powdered chicken stock. any chef that asks for advice, I'll always any chef that asks for advice, I'll always not the money. I mean, I work for so many chefs I mean, I work for so many chefs I wanted to learn what they were doing. I wanted to immerse myself when I travel. I would stage and work for free, so by chasing that knowledge, you're able to see the lens of every chef Everybody has a different way and if you approach everything you're going to learn a lot more. if you're looking for just that final paycheck, you might take a job or a position but may not get you to If you chase the knowledge, And when you get there, you'll get there that actually has the foundation and skill that you need to be successful long term.