*sound of a gunshot* Damn! I'm way out here. In South Dakota, where it's My family tree leads me to Republicans. Conceivably far away You might think these people have This is the story of people who People who have more in common than they think -- those in the countryside and in the city, Supporters of Trump and Harris. And to tell this story, I begin my journey in.. Yes indeed! Hey guys! Best wishes from Harlem. Today, we're in a predominantly Black neighborhood because I want to hear what people have to say about Kamala Harris and get this community's perspective on the whole political circus. I'm getting a tattoo and we're But first let's settle in a bit here. Kamala Harris would be the What do people in Harlem think about this? For a start, nobody talks to me. Bourgeois Electoral Bullshit. On my way to my first appointment. No journey without a tattoo. Issa is 19 years old and Next to her is her boss And here in Harlem New York City, But first she tattoos my motto Because in times when billionaires intervene in election &quot;Cash rules everything around me&quot;. Issa lives in the Bronx -- In her neighborhood, as the belief that Kamala Harris That's also how election decisions are made. Harris is both disliked and liked for the same reason: That's the thing about identity politics, which A few hours later, two blocks down the street. Unbelievable but true: this is the only And I got there long before the actual show. I am watching the warm-up In a white-dominated industry, she wants But it's best to just let Hi, I'm Nicki. In 98 I lived in Bavaria and Yes! Yes indeed! Audience members and Big mixed show tonight. I've now spoken to a lot of The energy is huge They're all ready to go on stage. I am a bit shy as the whitest boy alive. And I haven't met anyone in this But I also find no enthusiasm They cynically use violence and weapons-- The supply of weapons to Israel and the stance of But above all, Nicki is angry. About the super-rich and lobbyists Nicki says that running this club, connecting with people, That helps her from It's about community, Not about Washington DC. Locally, the big names aren't Trump or Harris And it's obvious that but people need community and spaces. Harris, yes. Conviction, no. I leave New York and head toward the Midwest. Americans call it 'flyover country,' but I don't just want to fly to South Dakota. Nobody wears a helmet here. I haven't seen anyone wearing a helmet yet. That's the land of the free, baby! This is Republican territory-- A very small state with only 900,000 residents. It smells like manure. We really The 900,000 residents share Trump is everywhere, On a main street, I spot this stand. Business is good for the owner, Kain, before the election. Never surrender. He designs most of the shirts himself and Because Trump has mobilized him. Yes, who wouldn't want that? Trump's election win seems almost certain, some people are already This cult of personality especially since everything is *sound of a gunshot* *beeping sound* I am deaf. I am deaf. But more on that later. I'm leaving the city A small village straight out of a Western movie. In the town center next to it the Catholic cemetery Two of my ancestors are also buried here, as German settlers founded this village, And I will meet his descendants. I'm about to meet my own family, though I don't know them at all-- instead, I painstakingly No, it's just some guy sitting But that's the address We're all Cooks, or Kochs--a big family. Dean's grandmother is my grandmother's cousin. Throughout the afternoon, more and more Cooks arrive, happy to have visitors from Germany I think she's my great-great cousin. Everyone here is a great-great cousin. We're reading letters over 100 years And I am warmly welcomed with local specialties, plastic cutlery, and paper plates-- Let's go! And it's kind of weird because, on one hand, Enjoy your meal, everybody! ... and on the other hand, I'm here to make with my family, most of whom vote for Trump and seem to be doing pretty well financially, judging by the cars I see. So far, everything's been really nice, and now I I'm not even sure if that's going to be hard or not. I'll down another light beer And with the sunset, the next Hubertus Koch. Her father has the The hype is real. Barbara, like everyone here, is super nice. That makes the stay very pleasant, Her daughter Nicole intervenes. A little chat about abortion. Like their ancestors, the Cooks are still very Catholic - So it's not just in this discussion that I'm biting on granite. If everybody aborted their baby, what would we have? But not everybody would have an abortion Without life what do you have? But it's also her life, right? They made the choice and now there is a baby. Of course she's voting for Trump. And I don't want to keep arguing, I want to see common ground - like distrust. Most people here are voting for trump even though I would say the majority of people in the united states Because I think all of us look at it and say: Here at the table the phrase often comes up: I'm not buying it. And then it's kind of illogical that everyone votes, isn't it? You're buying something. You're not convinced but you go vote. So you buy something either one of the sides. You have to. I mean it's a responsibility. I mean why not vote? I met people who said I'm not voting. I have not voted in the past So I chose not to vote but say that to someone In the last election, one third of Americans did not vote. And this is the first time i understand why to participate in an election that you don't believe in? Life is good. The next morning i meet non-voter nicole and her son again. Hey how are you? Nice to see you. I give you a microphone first. Nicole has just moved back to the country to be with her family. after turbulent years in which there was no room In her job as a teacher, which paid less than at McDonalds. A lot of teachers have two jobs. Two or three jobs. You know I'm a single mum and have a little boy and after covid it just got like around the clock just unhealthy. I didn't workout I just did nothing for me so I feel like I didn't have time to sit and watch the news. And even then if I did, was it accurate? So I didn't feel like I had a sound enough judgement Despite what people were telling me I should vote. So you were more busy with your own life. And with everyday life. Teaching was crazy. Teaching and single mum. It is crazy. This year the non-voter will vote again And you're indecisive? No, definitley go Trump. What makes you so convinced? I don't believe anything that Harris is doing. I think they're just puppets. I think at least Trump a backbone. Has a what? Backbone, ah! In what sense? He's gonna stand up for what he is saying. But he is gonna stand up and believe in for what he is saying. Yeah I mean he's saying like some rough things, right? Oh, your dog is licking something. Yeah it's ok. She eats something. So he said pretty racist things and he did Anti feminist stuff. So espeacially as a woman... That's what I'm saying: He not a good human. I don't think any of them are role model But I think in my opinion and I don't know the [Music] What the fuck? Nicole has a black son And the main reason for this decision is not even because Nicole says thanks to Biden The inflation is gonna grow. The housing market is terrible. Covid pandemic happened and it's a lot what doesn't have to do with Trump or Biden, right? Or the parties. But I don't know... I just haven't seen anything good Ukraine war, corona pandemic - only perceived truths, rhetorical figures I watched a lot of US television in the hotel. In addition to lots of graphs that were more reminiscent of a horse race, there were endless punchlines on both sides. You have to say it's really an intellectual imposition that is being negotiated on television and it's called an election campaign. Simply discrediting the opponent instead of And before you look snootily at the Americans, Are you kidding me? The next morning I don't want to know anything about politics because, at my express wish, we are going to shoot today. There are already the targets. [Music] South Dakota has some of the most liberal gun laws and the family was very skeptical to talk to me about the subject and to shoot. Worried about how it will be presented. So to make clear you have the guns for hunting purposes? Yes, especially in this area it's like our cultural thing. We grow up hunting and fishing and doing outdoor activities like that. So our guns here are almost entirely for that purpost of hunting. For the German audience is a pretty extrem thing But here it's like an everyday thing, right? Yeah. Well, I've known people from other cities, But here in these small towns almost everybody has probably seen guns or shotguns or went through hunter safety course to be able to get certified to shoot. When was the first time you shot a gun? Maybe I was nine. Probably nine. Things are different in the countryside. And this is the hammer, so it's technically fire right now. [Shooting] I think I hit. And with this hit I've earned my bigger weapon, haven't I? Now Nicole takes over. After all, she's in the military. You can go like this. The USA has more registered firearms than inhabitants The children set up the targets and the dogs run into my heels. I'm gonna clear them up before you shoot, ok? Here a pacifist with an assault rifle. [Bang] This time with earmuffs, I'm not a beginner. [Bang] [Music] How did that feel? Powerful. Crazy! But I'm surprised. I hit all four. To actually hit a target. This AR-15 is really easy to use Two days after our filming, a 14-year-old kills four people in another state in the 50 school shooting this year only. None of them in South Dakota. Here, the assault rifle is mainly used to hunt coyotes. Dean says there must be another way. Weapons of war shouldn't be legal at all. But to ban weapons in general here would be equicalent Ones you have it in sight, you put it on fire [Bang] And then safe. If you do that from an early age, it would be like telling a German that I'm going to take your car away and you can no longer drive or drive at the speed limit I begin to understand. What part or what do you feel to understand more? It's like a family gathering, people are running around, kids, dogs, bla, bla. It's just a fun thing to do like I don't know So when you cut out the the safety issues in cities and I can understand why people say This is part of our way of life but we're using it for A lot of the midwest towns where we keep to ourself and live these lifestyles with the guns. Simply put, when I'm target shooting in the wasteland, school shootings in other states are a long way away [Music] After the shooting we drive to the farm next door. You're a big dog. That's the american way. [Music] Dean leads me to his son Doug. Hello again! How's it going? Nice to meet you. Doug trades in seeds for an international company. Financially, he, his wife and their three children are doing well. He only has the farm for fun. I'm proud to say I'm a very big Trump supporter. And would you Donald Trump a trustworthy guy? I think he's the better of two evils. For a politician i trust him more because he isn't a politician. 'The better of two evils.' How often I have heard this. Even if Donald Trump has officially distanced himself, the one-eyed man is connected to Project 2025. A strategy paper after law enforcement agencies or placed under the direct control of the President. Such and other radical ideas originate in part from and would concentrate all power with him. Are you familiar with the projekt 2025? Yes. There are some very radical things in projekt 2025 Yeah, when I read it think this is tending to fascism. Right! When you had one guy in power he can make all the decisions. That would be like having your house, senat and president And that's not good for anybody. But still you're gonna vote for Trump? Most definitely. Because the other candidate is crazy. We've had four years of crazy and this doesn't work. And ones again what the fuck? Instead of the craziness of the Democrats, Doug would rather vote for someone who wants to abolish democracy. A pretty conscious and radical choice, but I'm irritated because just five minutes later there's no sign of this radicalism. The election and everything that goes with it is only half as important important because only the media tell you that. This is the biggest election in the world and things are gonna fall apart if you don't vote for X or Y. We don't feel that way. I don't think the world is gonna end I don't think the democratic people think the world is gonna end if Donald Trump will win. The world won't end out here - you have little to fear and it's easy to talk as a well-off descendant of German settlers Because of course large sections of the black population fear the racist Trump as their president. But what connects the different worlds is that all these people no longer believe politics. It's less about Washington and more about Politically, they are lost. They no longer vote at all or do so without conviction. Some one clear racists and are already predicting a civil war. And elsewhere I would certainly but at a family celebration like this you have to hold back. That was my movie. You can already find the next Y-Kollektiv movie in the ARD Mediathek. Just click on the link. And apart from that, what is your opinion What is your opinion on the US election, What do you think of the candidates? Write it in the comments. I'll do a Q&amp;A and answer a few questions. Bye bye!