Please welcome Jason Momoa. [MUSIC PLAYING] Well, you're just You're just like a giant I'm so nervous. Why? Because I'm on Ellen right now. My mom is going to be so-- in my whole family. Well that's-- hi, Hi. It's so nice to meet you. It has been-- I don't know. We've been on 16 years. I'm just wondering, Why haven't-- if you like me It took a long time I've been doing it for 20 this last year, it's been good. No. It has been a good It has been a good year. So congratulations. Thank you very much. Yeah. We have a tradition. If you watch the show, First time here, we need So we'll start with, I think-- It's basically my whole career. [CHEERING] It's the whole segment. Yeah. [CHEERING] That was Baywatch, right? That's the reason why Now, come on. That was Baywatch. That's fantastic. I drank that away. That wasn't me. Those memories are gone. Oh, well, it was you. Well, first of all, you are But man, did you cause when you shaved your beard. It was trending. I think it was the same day And it was overtrending Yeah, sorry about that. That was an accident. You know what's is I had a dream that I and let you do it. But I was in Vancouver And I literally finished. And I flew straight to And I had no time to I had been away for a month. But I called. And I was like, I have But you guys were on hiatus. And it was some ridiculous day. But I wanted to come thought it would just be-- I just wanted to be that was important to me. And I was like, this And I've never ever-- And I tried on Aquaman. And it just didn't work out. But I was like, I I would have shaved it. And that would have been so fun. I know. But you know what? Aquaman 2 is coming. And there's some other parts. We're going to have to go back. Good. Well, I waxed tWitch's legs. So I'll wax-- I do it all. Yeah, I think Aquaman 2, It was bad. It was bad. Yeah. Whatever you need me to do-- It was bad. I'm more of a shaver, or I've never waxed before. Really? But it's a first you know what I'm saying? And then I did Edelman's. That's-- I cut-- Wow. Yeah, it's turned Yeah, I do mani pedis, Let me know. These are pretty nice. Do you need a mani pedi? I probably need a lot. What are you doing, What's happening? Actually, I was I was working all day, yeah. Your house is kind of like-- I've heard a lot Explain it. You've got an ax throwing area? Yeah. I've built a huge And now we're building a And there's half pipes and bow and arrow and Airstreams It's just-- Wow. It's sort of like what But you're just And then you have animals Yes. What do you have? My wife has a donkey. And we have two half And another one just passed. And then we have a snake. What kind of snake? It's a ball python. It's the oldest in the family. She's been around And where do you keep the I actually got a really I love funny stories. Yes. This snake actually got a little crack in the glass. It got out, and we thought it It was summertime. And it was gone. And we just left it, thought it And on Christmas Eve six months I come upstairs naked. And I'm trying to scare And all of a sudden, I hear and the dog's growling. And I turn around, and there's And there was a balloon from my kid's birthday. And the snake had in the house for six months. What did it eat? It was underneath That's the only How big is the snake? It's-- you don't want to let Yeah. We looked everywhere. I didn't go under the fridge. You clearly did not Anyways. What did it eat for six months? Do you know? You may have had a-- We have a lot of a couple of field mice Maybe, yeah. Wow. That's incredible. That's scary too. Yes. So let's talk about the And you didn't just You shaved it because-- I just wanted to bring To? I'm Aquaman now. And I have all these little And I never thought So I've got to do that now. I wanted to kind from single use plastics. And I just felt that And I was looking at all it's like 91% of all aren't recyclable. And there's like 500 are just that aren't recycling. So aluminum is-- To put the water in aluminum. Yeah, because I just feel like-- because this thing can turn where I didn't know-- I was very ignorant to this. But a plastic water bottle bottle again. It just goes out into our And so this is totally reusable. That's fantastic. Even though-- yeah, it's just-- Yeah, that's fantastic. Just being able to-- I live-- I carry my canteen. We have a well in our home. And when I travel so though I'm probably trying can to protect the environment, And so I just wanted there so that people could use 100% recyclable and reusable. And we can do it in America. And glass and plastic, we can't. Yeah, fantastic. Well, I love that and that we would have-- when I was shaving you. But we're talking about it now. So it doesn't matter. Yes. It doesn't. We'll take a break, We're back with Jason Momoa. And one of your And you're going to How do I start? We just got to throw it at it. But how? I was going to try this before. So here's the one thing. Because we throw footballs everyone kind of turns It just has to go If you do this, the It has to go right I see. [INAUDIBLE] Show me. Throw. Throw. [CHEERING] Ready? Well, move that because it's Andy? What are you supposed to do? Andy, stand right there. [LAUGHING] So I just throw it like that. So just stand right here, Let the ax do the work. Almost. You got that. So now come up to this about the rotation of it. You got this. Yes, I got it. You got it. That was-- don't-- You threw harder. Just let the-- Don't throw it hard? No, because just You should have told me that. I was putting all Back and release. Step right here. This is very hard. Let's just do you. So [INAUDIBLE] [CHEERING] If I were to have I probably would have done OK. We're going to help you raise to end plastic and bottle waste. So we're adding Each one has a dollar amount. You'll have 45 seconds to hit as you can. Ready? Yep. Say go. Yep. Go. [CHEERING] Andy, you're supposed to [BLEEP] Where we at? Where we at? Were good. We're good. [CHEERING] What we got? We're out of-- I'm out of shape. 31. I'm out of shape. We expected you to get $10,000. And that's what we had planned. But that's $31,000 for you. It's 31 big ones [CHEERING] [MUSIC PLAYING]