I've never heard of a cattle prod. There are stories of back where guys get roughed up a little bit. Nowadays, we don't need to do that. Hello, everybody. My name's Brian Stanton. I'm a casino executive in Las I have 20 years in the watching and looking at game security. Today, we're going to be looking at casino-heist movie scenes Whoo! You are a winner! Inside jobs, collusion is and a thing that we look into. There's been numerous stories of dealers setting up bets that aren't there or paying bets that aren't there, because they're in Things they're doing stand out. So, when I'm walking the floor, if I see dealers turning their head and looking where I'm at or they want to know where we're at because something's going on. Security measures. When the system senses a threat, Well, for how long? Man: Three minutes and 20 seconds. I've been in a few older properties where something will happen Power goes out in the city. If we lose surveillance If we have no camera we just pull the lids up, lock We wouldn't deal the games or operate without surveillance coverage. The system's in lockdown. All calls in and out of Again, sir, it's in lockdown. It's a very Hollywood scene that is completely unrealistic First of all, their surveillance room looks like an NSA SCIF. It's the nicest room I've ever seen, and no surveillance room They're not controlled by computers, where you could be locked out and couldn't make a phone call. I don't think there's a scenario where we would be stuck in a room. I would hope that there's like OSHA who would protect us from being locked in a room. As a business practice, we would have a hard-line and surveillance would Obviously, if power went and then we'd have to find the person and tell Whoa! Bringing in dice has happened. I haven't seen it in my career, but I've heard stories in that And they wouldn't be magnetic. They would be loaded, where to one side or another, or you would shave some corners. This is very Hollywood. The whole lighter and seeing it flip so slowly from one side to another. I would hope my supervisors right away if it was possible. And they wouldn't get away because it's pretty obvious. Getting that amount of that they kind of had apparently there's no table which is unrealistic as well. I think I saw a $100,000 which, I think $500's as a limit for that. Every bet on every table All very, very unlikely and comical. For accuracy of casinos, I would love to know if ever looked at any of and figured out if it was anything. Card counting is not some It's just basic counting. Second of all, you really can't learn card counting in one day, reading a book. The general public knowing about it has probably been a boon for us, because people think they and they really can't. [screaming] If you're going to count attract that much attention to yourself. You have the character in the background flipping off the cameras, creating a lot of energy around and drawing attention to themselves. Splitting fives. Noticing that they're doing things, again. He did split fives, even if you were a card counter. You would have to maybe or four cards coming out of the shoe were to make that make sense. He can't lose! He can't lose! The floor supervisor and the pit boss talking to each other. We wouldn't need to cover They're not going to read our lips. It would be, &quot;Hey, something's We're watching it on camera. Let's make a plan for what [screaming] Doing a distraction to escape 'cause they still have Counting cards is not illegal, unless you're using some device to give yourself an advantage. Smartwatch or a computer in that would make it cheating a game. But keeping track in your head and knowing how many big you can gain an advantage, If somebody's card-counting we simply say, &quot;Hey, you're not welcome to play blackjack anymore. Your action's too good for us.&quot; This scene, not very 1 for accuracy of how or representing how Ace: Cash flows from through the cage, and into the most sacred room It's not realistic to a modern casino as far as how you would or how the actions are You see the keep-out sign, We wouldn't allow anybody to walk in with a briefcase nowadays. The workers that walk in are walking in with clear purses, if at all. The count room is the most There are procedures in how they can go in, what they Probably in part because when they were run by versus now, publicly traded companies. Nicky: They're counting And the best part was that didn't know what the f--- was going on. I mean, to them, everything But when you're paying out at the cage, we would count by hand. And they did a good job of and how they laid the bills out. Every table, there's a paddle and they take the cash, and and it goes into what's called a drop box. And those are collected daily, and they're double-lock-secured. And security would come take them into the count room, where it's unlocked and the money is just dropped out onto a clear table. And then the money is counted and sorted and assigned to that table. Nicky: The guys inside the counting room were all slipped in there They'd do short counts, they'd even take cash right It's in a time period, back in the day, where you hear stories A fill slip is just an order form when a table game needs more chips. Throughout the day, as and cash out, we have to And you order a fill from the cage to bring more chips to the table. And that's how you figure out how much a table wins Nicky: And it was up to standing in front of about $2 million, to skim the cash off the top without anybody getting The skim was apparently a real thing that the mob was doing to the casinos. Casinos are big business, so to factor in the cash that comes through and the accounting paperwork So it is a very busy room, there's a lot of people working, but not busy enough somebody walking in with a briefcase and walking out with the cash. It takes key access, and there's also cameras Ace: You can spot these a--holes by watching the way they bet. Like this guy. He's betting lavender chips at $500 each with only one little problem. He's always guessed right. When things stand out, you So they did a great job of how they're paying, how on the tables, to how the to even how De Niro's character walked in and started to observe things. Ace: I saw that the dealer was weak, but he wasn't in on it. He just wasn't protecting his hand. He was lifting his hole card way too high. The first thing he noticed was that the guy always guesses right. Kind of bends down to tie his shoe so he can get a look at what's going on and where those angles are coming from and figures out that there's Ace: Signaling his buddy. They cruise from casino to the way lions look for weak antelope. Using a device to cheat, at is a crime, so you don't Things like that used to happen as computer technology took hold. If it wasn't for the device, they wouldn't really be just taking advantage of a weak dealer. Those were the way we used was for them to cover Nowadays we have a thing which is a two-way mirror that they slide the cards right into so that there's no risk of Ace: Turns out this guy they were knocking this I've heard a lot of stories. I've never heard of a cattle prod. There are stories of back where guys get roughed up a little bit. Nowadays, we don't need to do that. We have the Nevada Gaming Control Board, we have security, where we would just notify and do everything through a legal process. It's once they brought And we'd notify the gaming commission, say, &quot;Hey, we have somebody And we would hand it right off to them. I think the movie was done incredibly well from a technical standpoint. Everything outside of the cattle prod. That knocks the clip down to about a 7 1/2. Charlene: Oh, my God, I can feel a kick! Shelly: F---ing amateurs. This is a more realistic thing that could happen and has happened. It's switching out dice. Fake dice, incredibly uncommon. Alec Baldwin's character somebody with the experience hey, the way he's cupping his or the way he's releasing them where fingers are bent up We have policies for that too. When a shooter shoots, for their hand to be open to make sure they're not hiding dice in there. Cheating on dice can be common because there's a lot going on. There's a lot of players, The biggest cheating scam that happens is what's called dice sliding, where you would set one dice to a number, and then when you go to throw them, instead of the dice tumbling they can control one or both of the dice and know what the outcome is and either bet with it or against it. It takes a crew of people. someone to throw it, another So a couple times a year getting hit with a dice-sliding team. Again, we have policies that protect us from that. They always have serial numbers on them. We make sure that they match There is some security built into it. Yeah, he's up $18,000 since Sorry, Shelly. I'm kind In the scene, we see William somebody who has such bad luck that they put him at the table, then his bad luck hopefully Unfortunately, it is a thing. I haven't seen it in a long, long time. Managers throwing salt under a table or pennies under a table, because somehow that Modern casinos, I think, have and just realized it's all about the math. Let's get it, let's get it! [everyone groaning] Aw. Guys, I thank you, my When he sensed that he he said, all right, the gig's up, and he switched back to the original dice and happened to seven out. Using your pregnant wife as a distraction, this is a much more than the &quot;Ocean's Eleven&quot; Them switching out dice, I I'd rate it an 8. I feel like you should or FBI in here to evaluate because it doesn't pass on how casinos work or anything that would happen in a casino. I think they say in the movie that in reality are a mile apart. There's no secret bunker And then the two security guards just happen to be facing facing a door for no reason. Rusty: As your manager's you have a little over $160 You may notice we're only It would depend on how often or whatever, but we are required to be able to cover Now, does that mean we have No. We just write them a check for it. Modern casinos, we've become increasingly a cashless society, and we have credit markers Yen? In previous clips, we saw And then once the money's counted, it's put into a secure location. You can call it a vault if you want to. But it being this far out like it's holding the nuclear codes. Benedict: Cue up the tape to the robbery. Installed on Tuesday. The images we saw of those Walsh: What? I feel safe to say that nobody has a vault quite like this one, or to inlay the marble, or with the name of the casino in the vault. That seems like we could spend that money better somewhere else. I've worked at some but that's even a little bit over the top. Our directors of security, all either were former law so they would know when The likelihood of an pretending to be Las Vegas and walking out with money, I had a hard time watching this movie when I watched it the first time. And I'm like, wow, I really have to suspend reality to enjoy this. A 1 on how things in a real casino look or act or are run. Cameras generally aren't at eye level where you could spray-paint them. They're usually up in the ceiling. First thought is, that's probably the most unsecure count room and Those look like regular office doors and the locks that are on as opposed to the locks that we would use. How the casino's laid out, The count room is generally where it would take a couple of layers, couple of access points There wouldn't necessarily need to be a security guard in or There are security everywhere at the access points to that would take to get to that I'm only going to say this once, OK? Who's listening? I am, yeah. What we would wear in the count room is overalls with no pockets, for anybody to hide You would wear that uniform into the room and not bring bags or anything with you, so that you couldn't take Main booth, scramble security. Call Vegas PD. We need backup. While surveillance did notice in the count room, they in the back of house, on before that ever happened. Somebody's always watching. Obviously, once they did notice them, they said notify metro, which Freeze! Hold it right there! I would tell the security team, and I think they would say the same, we wouldn't engage on the casino Not a wise idea. Let them get away with the and we'll use metro, and We usually can see the getaway There has been some large thefts throughout history of cages. And they are very usually And I've yet to hear of Armed robbery, that's more But overall, I'd say it rates about a 5. Professionals always place Croupier: Two, six, 13. Croupier is a term we It's a European term for a dealer. He's obviously dealing based on some of the bets that were made. No more bets, thank you. 34 red. No, I'm sorry, sir, that's a late bet. How the player cheated is a normal move. It's called past posting. The dealer catches the past post, but it's interesting how he caught it, because he was staring which is what we train them not to do. They should be watching the and listening for the ball to He would've had to have to notice that that was a late bet. Is there a problem? Yes, this croupier's I want to be paid! Pay the gentleman. In full. When he does notice, the and gets involved and The gentleman acts aggressively. We probably wouldn't pay that bet. We would use surveillance to Let's just get this guy Let's go ahead and pay him knowing we still have to cash him out, so we still have the ability It's fairly realistic, from to the motions of the dealer I rate this about an 8. My favorite casino-heist I think, by far and away, &quot;Casino&quot;'s the most realistic interpretation of what was done at that time and how we've evolved to the modern time. If you enjoyed this