Well, thank you, Gil. It's customary say how glad I am to be here. And in my haven't been here since 1979, and I'm to discover that this thing, which has fantasy, is still, in fact, standing. miraculous if things are still there. So I'm going to talk to you about been a big adventure, which is converting un-exciting life of a normal curator endangering consequences. So, one of the in the British Museum is, because the are experts, is to identify things which lot of fuss about how interested they Bronze Age, or Late Iron Age, or something what they really want to know is how the trustees from ever referring to this with all sorts of drama. And it happened person called Douglas Simmons came in, in about 1985, with a bag full of antiquities, small antiquities, which he officer. And it contained some coins, a couple of shabtis, and a cuneiform know that I picked up the cuneiform And, I picked it up, and at first sight I Babylonian letter, I'm sure you would size--size, shape, dimension, so forth. But, I lifted it up and started going to read the whole of this book out. I yourself, this is easily arranged, &quot;Wall, wall, read wall, read wall. Atra-hasis, pay heed to my advice that you may live forever. Destroy your house, build a not many letters begin that way. And, at sight, because I had a very demanding thrash them with barbed wire until they the beginning of the Flood Story in the who graduated from that classroom. So I the Old Babylonian version of the Flood world, because everyone is interested in their hands on an unpublished piece Assyriologist. So I was rather excited it away, picked up the lamp, and said, &quot;And through the rest of the material, &quot;Can I borrow this for a while and read best part of a decade. So I knew that was before the trustees of the British to knock people to the floor and take I just let him escape. But I knew that the British Museum, because all important temporarily in the Louvre, but sooner or So, the thing is, when I finally got this luxury, to say, of reading it properly, in forth, to get the guts of it out. And it sixty lines in length, and although the attested in the other sporadic examples, knowledge of the Flood, itself, on domain since 1872, when George Smith, the character on the left, for the first time. was a modern human being who read a material from his barbaric background Writ, virtually, in this peculiar format. record, I'm sure it's true, that he his anxiety, and started to run around funny, squeaking noises, and, eventually, this has gone down in history as a that what actually happened was he had discovering for the first time that the century London knew by heart, existed in Smith, then, in 1872 discovered this for about it, all sorts of discussion by all attention to the image of Smith on your forehead, leadership kind of profile, fine forth. It's always been this range of looked for in their Assyriological employees. [Laughter] So, the thing is, that when Smith published this, he wrote very lucidly about it and its implications for the biblical approximate parallel, but a much more when the Flood was abated, and then birds was released, and the only the back, so he knew that something had course, what Noah did in the more popular Hollywood, and the really good one, which Babylonian. So, um, one of the interesting discovered, that 1872 tablet, it came from seventh century B.C. It was one of the king's own personal copies of his standard literature. And although they didn't know made his very quick and very accurate what the Ark that this, Utnapishtim, the story, had built. And the description object which is the same height, the clergymen, who were extremely worried undermined and what this might mean for back in full, saying, &quot;Well, this is rubbish, Bible. I mean, it's a cube. I mean, whoever had a boat that was a cube, which is mad anyway.&quot; They had to take notice of this, and so they were compelled and felt encouraged to dismiss course, they were operating on the to speak, looked like this. I was rather photograph, which, it's what we call research in the British Museum, it's called Google, generally. And, here it is, exactly as it was, reconstructed in this image according to was that in 1872 and a half, there were version, there were people who stuck fast coffin. But, of course, at the same time like. It's one of these things, there's just to complete it. So, in fact, Ark fanciers, so to speak, had these three alternatives at their astonishing when I had the letter to following thing. Because the god, Enki, who had discovered that the world was going to be destroyed, he decided it wasn't a good being to build this lifeboat to rescue would come. And it's always been a Atra-hasis whose name means &quot;extremely he might have been, it is clear that Anki building at all. Because in this tablet, need to know in order to build this boat. one of those boxes from Ikea, which has panel on the side, so when you take it first piece of information that came out was round. And I'm fairly secure about worked on the &quot;K&quot; volume, so I felt that thought I'd make absolutely sure that I boats are not something you tend to encounter in your normal life. You remember, of course, that world have used round boats, which we called &quot;kuffar,&quot; and that in ancient like this, and it suddenly became a rather Babylonian poet, who lived when he wrote thousand years older than the Assyrian conceived of the ark question, the boat, as people built on the sides of the because the thing about a coracle, if take my word for it. I've been in one the British Coracle Association. It's not a funny thing at all, I don't see why you are sniggering, this is a major, major tribute gold chain, it's a bit annoying, but they so I've been in one, so I can talk about this the thing about these boats, I know from don't sink. And if you've got the job of and putting them in a boat, it doesn't All it has to do is float. And the it just floats. And they float wrote this story, trying to visualize the going to be a giant coracle. It coracle. The surface area of the plan is than this room. And in this IKEA list materials he will need. That's to say, the build the body of the boat, the ribs made inside and out to make it waterproof. materials but, he actually tells him how complete the job. So this is where it this is what, of course, Iraqi coracles look like, or used to look like. The one at the top, on your left, is ever made, probably. And the one below Book of Records award for the most males with success. And in fact they were boy and they thought that with cheating. a horn from a lantern slide, which was from her father's collection. And we had clearly on this screen but you've got and have clearly been persuaded by some activities to go in one of these boats look terrified. So the thing is that the times. It's on the sculptures, for example. photographic pieces of evidence from the though I think it's now disappeared. So show you, is... This, which is from a pair of sequence of someone who photographed the construction of a coracle on the banks of the river in Iraq in about 1920. And boat is built. And what you do, is you rope and you have a pith, the pith which which is twisted and twisted and twisted, exceptionally strong. And the basic way you draw it out on the ground, in a great beginning, the next bit is laid on top of north to south, and go round and stitch of the second and you end up with a that, you have to have ribs which fit hole, and then the bitumen is applied. So, me, probably unique situation. The central numbers and very technical, and I'm help with dealing with the numbers, and I so I wasn't really on top of it, but I Ethnographical Institute in our museum an account of how these coracles are by somebody else. So this Hornell was historian, and he was from Scotland, and words. His sentences are extremely terse Babylonian, which is more or less understand in different areas. So I had description from 1920 A.D. to 18th century B.C. about how to build these Babylonian to understand what he meant And eventually, both things became mutually intelligible, and the whole sequence emerged. So I'm not going to go through tempting to do this and then perhaps paper of test questions for you all to you to retain from this experience, drab The measurements of the materials are, measurements, it's not in English, they the rope, needed to wind round to make Hassis that he would need fourteen tu measures of rope in order to build the Oriental Institute. Someone's I'm rather disappointed. Okay, let me tell couldn't cope with the maths on this position normally do, which is look in Prize-winner in mathematics. And I got that we had these measurements, that the thousand four hundred thirty sutu. And we thousand six hundred square meters, and that the walls were seven meters high. And we also knew that traditionally, to build thick, powerful finger thick. So we have, available for a mathematical genius to boat of this size using this material, with me? Superb. I'll just refresh your memory. The divine instructions specify fourteen And this mathematician--thanks. Extra So, this mathematician--and he did it times and get it wrong each time, but rather interesting. When he calculated whole bunch of mathematical theorems, it came out that fourteen thousand six words, five hundred and twenty seven would say this rope goes exactly from And the difference between the specified measure worked out by a mathematician is Watford. Or to put it in American terms, Minnesota minus about 32 sutu. You can point about it is that the difference is A, cannot be coincidence. So one is fought poetic narrative, the data, which was to man to use was realistic and a very remarkable thing and it's also these boats by the side of the river did middle of the 20th century A.D., meaning construction. It never needed improvement, come into being, it just went on in the funny happened to me. I'm sitting on top excitement, it turns out there's no another, like--unlike any other animals went in two by two, which we knew cuneiform. And a million other really excitement about this. And a lady comes about three weeks before Christmas, and business?&quot; Which is the way journalists that time I've got the blueprint for how Old Babylonian period. So she asked me all sorts of questions, and just before Christmas, this came out Well this had other consequences than large number of phone calls, mostly from who said, &quot;We got to make a movie!&quot; Like documentary, if they knew the full word, Manual I explained to you about before do with documentary makers, because the it's always been our policy to sup anything to do with being in a something to do with the Bible, because and they go away and in the editing &quot;not.&quot; And so you find yourself on stage opposed to what you either said or what about these things. But, turned out in the approached me and said, &quot;We've got to do a documentary about this.&quot; He was an Englishman, which helped. And um, I said, adventure.&quot; Because what he wanted to of the doctor, because the doctor made this boat.&quot; So they thought, &quot;Why don't they do it?&quot; They're all clever in that kind of way. So all they had to do was raise a it. So I said, &quot;I'm happy to do this. Only, documentaries, unusual documentary, where we tell the truth about everything. We tell the truth.&quot; Kind of long silence. &quot;Hallo, colleagues have ever had that idea before, an interesting conception to work with.&quot; And I wanted to be all over this film and to lyrics, not to mention the film anglings. Everything about it, I had this masterpiece. But, actually, when we started, they kept me down in the most depressing way. So they got the money together. And Iraq for obvious reasons, and after a lot on builting it in India, in southwest found a lake, and a shipyard they could the rope were there, and all other sorts in appearance, so to speak, you So, they got together a very serious builders, and a team of workmen, and for this boat. So, what actually happened translation, which was all done in the and nobody's head is on the block one day to discover there's going to be operation the other side of the world if it's gospel. So of course I would run Woke up in the middle of the night it's actually designed for a like that. And it was a very send the translation with the dimensions had to be hospitalized when he read how long interlude before it was agreed the it full size, they would build it as big with the dimensions given by the see, in the second part of this lecture, the impossibility of building it full that was the compromise. It was reached. email, it was rather, rather smart. This email came, saying, &quot;Would you mind terribly if, y'know, we've done this on the computer, and the would you mind if we--Instead of being like a normal person, who wishes to write back and say, &quot;Chaps, you this, and whatever you have to do is fine, could I ever--&quot; I let the thing go for was a little note, &quot;Okay, if you must.&quot; Like that, you know, just kind of &quot;Okay.&quot; &quot;Just this once, we're building a boat. Okay, fine.&quot; And I discovered afterwards that was a brilliant piece of strategy. Remember this if you're ever in the process of people, that's the way to do it, go out of marvelous, marvelous images which were Really fantastic photographs. And I idea. But here, you can see the chaps who is already in this very thick, snake-like rope. At the very beginning of the process of making the bottom, which they until they've got the whole boat. And This is a view from the very bottom, And the thing is, they calculated very finished, would be exceptionally heavy. And bottom was finished, they could never with a lifeboat, because the structure So the whole thing had to be built on a whole thing could be bodily brought into the launch. So this gives you an idea, structure, laced together and tied. And things, without any glue or nails or Everything was tightened and tightened. It And, this was a very important wanted to bring this elephant back to to me once when I was a young curator. I into the gallery, and there were two them said, &quot;Oh, do you work here?&quot; And I said, &quot;Yes.&quot; And he said, &quot;My wife and I, we were asking ourselves, how can it be that the, the doors to my department are about the whole size of this wooden paneling. Double doors. And all the museum doors are built on mind, I don't know what made me say this, to the time of the British Raj, because departments used to come to work on And the guy said, &quot;Oh, that's really up the gallery, and say, &quot;No, it's not true So these are the chaps at work, and they and they sang when they were working, and as the boat took shape, this was a view inside, it was extraordinary, it was sort you can see, perhaps, that these are the in the middle to make the floor, and they these are the walls made of the rope, inside. And then on these struts coming laid these big circular woods, with these upper deck. Because in the tablet, it's something and how long they are. These upper deck could be installed, because upstairs and all the animals downstairs. is to be built on the upper deck for Atra-Hassis and his immediate family. And it was made by the verb of &quot;tying,&quot; so it reeds, as I will show you in a moment. So like, and you know, people who find out questions. The most burning question to talk about this for periodically at of unknown individuals. And then usually do they do with the dung?&quot; And it doesn't dung. So if anybody's anxious about it, I'm really sorry, but I don't know either. the, this is built literally like a structure is how the Babylonian tablet theoretically, the stanchions could have species could have been kept separate, if, you write a book about Noah's Ark--this impart to you--you do get into hot believe in it, of course. And lots of &quot;Wouldn't it sink with all the animals?&quot; of discussions of this on the internet, other particular, discuss how difficult heavy animals in. But the point is that they meant all the animals that they knew. seen on television. They meant the animals they meant the animals that were and domestic animals, and in fact, the the list was, it isn't so huge, and it's things, and all the gnats sort of the other, and so forth. Anyway, now. When they did really build it, they had the abundance, because it bubbles out of the for waterproofing since the beginning of to a boat or a wall or some other impermeable, and if you renew it now and expecting to get a tanker full of Iraqi bitumen brought to India to do this job. And the careful property in Iraq included carcinogenic not allow a single drop of Iraqi last minute, we had to get Indian bitumen. I hate to say this, but it's on quality control. And the thing about Indian bitumen is this. That whatever you do, it comes off. So these poor blokes, in an extremely hot, were constantly applying it, to try and coat it entirely in bitumen. And it was a much more exhausting and unpleasant task than it would ever photograph which shows my dear guy in, the chap in the hat is a man called Tom Volsner. And he is the kind of grand old man of reconstruction. And then, if I get this shirt, who is his best student. And Alessandro lived on this site for about everything. And this is me, obviously, with told you I wanted to run this film from me anywhere near it, and they actually two days before the launch. So, the house I mentioned before about it being tied, used to exist in the marshes of Iraq, a copied one of those houses to be in the that part. So they left half the floor filmed and everything. And you can see, the top, that's where they all finish, and round the top. And it was marvelous. So Once in a while, you see, they is my chance to influence this terrific ideas, so why not.&quot; One idea was documentary about the Ark without animals in it. And I said, animals, you know, things. And I had this idea for myself. You, you know, you know, the Hitchcock when the distinguished profile is So my idea was to dress up in a sheet, and thwack one of these rhinos on the gangplank. This was, I thought, &quot;That will heroic moment.&quot; And they said, &quot;No.&quot; So then I said, &quot;Well, look, I have a better idea. In India, there are many cults and villages and painted with great realism, snakes. They know what they look like. of each, and they could go on the boat. things usually do in the ritual, so no sink, it would be a miracle. So what's &quot;No,&quot; they said. So, I gave up. Now, when I last couple of days. And, I have to tell difficult for me to explain clearly in One of them is this. That when the boat picture of it. Hold on. launch. And the plan was, in this film, all leafy and grown over so that no one be so no one could spy on what was And this was the plan that the, the through this jungle into the interesting, fascinating way. And then amazement and delight. So, for an actor, But, you know, you've got to walk right on left leg right leg stuff. No, there's a nonchalant, studied, intellectually telling myself, &quot;I've got to be excited and inside. What was it, what was it.&quot; Now I'm thinking, &quot;And I can only do it once.&quot; And as I was walking along this great metal going backwards through the mud, focusing my feelings would be recorded for once. So this is very difficult, sort of like this, I see this boat. This is not a very this boat, it was unbelievably exciting beautiful boat, a ship, a she, a it looked like an antiquity, it didn't all there from this stupid bit of clay the world, come into existence. So it was all I could do not to burst into tears. And that's one thing that happened. And then animals. When the boat was ready to go, They got this lake, a special lake in and no depth, and no danger, where they was a lot of talk about whether it would very deep, and as all the materials from float, anyway, I thought that the chances poised on the edge of this lake, and in a rugby pitch. And they got this tripod. And just before the ritual of again, and these old men came out. Two of way the dog walkers work, certainly dogs on one and seven--I don't know what idea. But, anyway, like the dog walkers, planted a stake for one of them and realized what this meant. That the &quot;doing&quot; the animals, right. So what he was goats, one male and one female, in the people were on their sofas watching, they Okay. It's the really cheap version. So of goats, up to their ankles in mud, interesting than being a movie star, and intercourse was even more interesting. of money to disentangle this heaving, that we could launch the boat. I thought That's the goat. Or one of them. So this looked like when it was nearly ready to go. kind of stand. And the stand itself, they had a very brilliant way of doing it. giant coracle launches, who did this sort these sausages of, of rubber which could be like sausages on a grid, and then then, like wheels, they would act as rollers. gradually go into the water. So, this is intrepid and heavily insured crew had to stand back. And these are two of the expression &quot;health and safety,&quot; it's heard of the word &quot;help and safety.&quot; So, water, and eventually it went into the exactly, what a nice noise. So, look, the I mean a normal, a normal, functional coracle in rocky waters. So that gives you an idea, it's slightly bigger than normal. cooks had given us all sandwiches in And we put the sandwiches in this little walking round and leaning over the have a sandwich, there were millions of the flood and the Ark. That the one is ants. So, because of the bitumen, there was a bit of a problem with a bit of a leak. And, in fact, some leaks, and unfair statements about leaks, you've ever been in a rowing boat, wouldn't you expect it with the world's reasonable, but actually the water had to get a couple of fellows with bitumen. If it had had Iraqi bitumen, It's a very odd thing to be in a round will. But it's very remarkable, because through the water, the prow of the boat triangle thing, which, you, you know, must boat when there isn't one, it's very odd, shadow who doesn't have a shadow. It's filming of it for the documentary, and this boat out of the lake down one of and park it somewhere, or as we say in you can see the trial fleet crew all sealing, anti-drowning devices. So we all And it was hot enough, hardly hot enough insulated you from head to groin. It was interesting thing that happened. After want to tell you, I forgot, hold on a moment. are clouds in the sky. Now. The fact that was not accident. They had sworn all didn't want tourists coming and getting and half were Muslim. And they worked and they faithfully did not tell anybody sky had these immensely threatening was my doing. And this became clear the workmen all wanted to be there were 40 or 50 of them and they So it was the sort of up here and then variations of it, all next to these chaps on the plane, I said to one of the film that display at the end of the, of the many months, and they were so friendly to used to being a tremendous social that was a bit surprising.&quot; And this guy all surprising. They all thought you [Laughter] So the thing is this. We are going home at dusk, these boats for tourists, where people go and they sit on deck drinking gin from fairly lubricated. And as we went past called out, &quot;Look, there's Noah's Ark!&quot; And I thought, &quot;Could anything be more annoying? That we something which is totally unlike Noah's drunks is immediately recognizable.&quot; If you fly over it, now you would never You wouldn't think for a moment of Noah's and they immediately recognized it. So, made me think. Because these boats that does it come from? Because all the of Babel, and so forth, all come from the the artists, of all the famous artists, tried to follow what's in the Bible. So, like it's described in the Bible? Why is occurred to me, the very possibility, that see, this shape, are in fact the profile this tradition survived beyond this unintelligible. Anyway, in the end, we had of the, out of the way of the world. And last man off. It was a hell of a wrench plan was to try and find someone to take story. So, the film was made, the film was shown, and, et cetera, et cetera. And in the first flush of this newspaper. [Laughter] Actually, that there are, these newspapers that. But that's pretty good, I think. of course, I knew, I knew they were wrong was because we have the proof this old map of the world, which was Babylon. And this map of the world has a very well known thing, it's published who are interested in this Ark story, with the aid of this modern, pretty good going for the British Museum, water around it. And the water is And inside this disc represents the interesting, that conceptually, they assumption that if they didn't think it round. So here we have the Euphrates this is Babylon straddling the Euphrates. And there are these various circles with the inscriptions in, which are names. And so this is a kind of rough map who've written about it saying, &quot;It's not And, &quot;We tried to use it on our motoring was meant to be accurate in the first interesting thing for these people is perimeter, the outer perimeter of the islands or mountains which are on the eight of them, and this text on the When it was complete, there is a rule in interesting a document, the more damaged are eight sections here, in which what is described. And they are like something tree that has jewels on it, there are birds travelers' tales type inventions. And on you go across the river, and you climb the river, you go up the mountain, you'll see thick as a parsiktu.&quot; Now, the thing is Enki is telling Atra-hassis to build the tasks, he says to Enki, &quot;I have done what said, &quot;I have cut the ribs as thick as a measurement and not a length measurement. &quot;Something is thick as a parsiktu&quot; is you might say, &quot;As thick as two short short planks can be of any thickness, it image. And the thing is that this only on this map and on the Ark tablet. refers to is the ribs of the boat climb this remote mountain, you will see the mountain. But this in itself is not on a mountain. And so in George Smith's tablet, a thousand years after my one, so to speak, what tended to happen to arks, in general. us which one it was. Now, the really cute this one here. Now, this is where it gets that the part of the known world, which mountain, is labeled as &quot;Urartu.&quot; It's Armenia, were people who were very troublesome to called their area, area Urartu or Urashtu. cross this river, you see this mountain, you come back, the first place you land the explanation for the narrative in land on Mount Ararat. Not on Mount Ararat, mountains of Ararat. It is not--the landed among the mountains of Ararat. So, that, as I try to explain in detail in the story in Genesis derives from the it the tradition about where this thing more knew where Urartu was than anywhere else. And they certainly didn't tweak the idea that the Babylonian conception was edge of the world, to a district where no this word, in the same geographical the origin of the expression in the of neat. And then, life intervened to teach The Easter before last, I and my trip. We passed this sign which said, to old churches, so we went and drove up and then the very ancient church behind clear whether there was a service going you can see here, to try and listen and disturb everybody. And as I was kind of &quot;plop&quot; on the back of my head. And I Where is he? Oh he's up there. Sorry. There was no bird shit on the ground at bird there was a pure white dove. So I pure white dove. And the floor beneath immediately examine the terrain to see none. came to get me. And all I can say is I Thank you.