- The Flip Video camera was so successful it cost the company $300 million. Wait, no, that can't be right. Oh, sure enough, $300 million. What the heck happened? (lively upbeat music) Hey everyone, how are you all doing? If you're new here, welcome. My name is Krazy Ken and the Flip Video for several years. And I believe for many people, this was their first video camera. This was during a time when smartphones had little to no video capabilities, so a compact and affordable But despite selling millions of units, the popularity rose and So let's see what happened. Say hello to Jonathan Kaplan, and entrepreneur who worked and eventually founded Their product was an named KidFlix where kid-friendly media. In 1999, KidFlix and MovieStreet were consolidated and and they expanded their books, and music. &quot;Wow, this is cool!&quot; said Sega. So they bought Family Wonder In addition, Jonathan and he oversaw the online PC and console gaming business along with some other But about seven months later, he left. If I had to guess, he and exercise that and make a company of his own. And that's exactly what he did because on July 25th, 2001, Jonathan founded Fish Sticks. - Fish sticks, get your Fish sticks here! - Sorry, FishSix, FishSix. I can't find details on this company. Even the archived website but maybe it was just a placeholder name. Because in June 2002, to Pure Digital Technologies, with a single goal in mind, create inexpensive digital cameras and bring the benefits to mass market consumers. And their first product was the Dakota Digital Single-Use Camera released on July 28th, 2003 And it's only 10.99. That's a low price for a but keep in mind, it's Dakota Digital wasn't the in the world, but it and it was the first to be And even though it was cheap, It had auto exposure, a timer, and enough storage for 25 photos. But you can't import the This is the limitation You have to go to a Ritz printed and burned to a Photo CD. The processing cost $11 and then the store would keep the camera, refurbish it, and sell However, some hackers found and we'll talk about that soon. Despite the cool digital features, the tried and true film disposable camera still reigned supreme. But that didn't stop Pure Digital. They released the PV2 for And they started selling and Rite Aid under the But this was just the beginning. Pure Digital had an ace up their sleeve. On June 6th, 2005, Pure to make the CVS One-Time-Use which sold exclusively at This camera is pocket-sized. It weighs just under five ounces, and it's powered by two The lens and the microphone and on the back is a 1.4-inch Play, record, delete, and power. There's also a built-in speaker. These camcorders can record 20 minutes of 640 by 480 But just like the predecessors, you can't import this stuff to a computer. You had to bring the camera to a CVS and pay 13 bucks to get so you can watch your stuff. But just like with the previous cameras, hackers found a way to make it reusable. All these cameras had a connector, which was covered up by a sticker. Pretty sneaky, sis. You could use a Palm hot sync cable and a USB cable, solder some which connect to the proper pins, and Bob's your Uncle. Kipkay actually made a brief video about this process in 2008. Then you had to use special software to properly read the files and Et voila, you can now enjoy and your new reusable digital camcorder. Okay, so the hackers clearly caught on, and Pure Digital just said, okay, if we can't beat 'em, join 'em. So on May 2nd, 2006, the Point &amp; Shoot Video And this was a pivotal product because this... is where With the built-in flip out USB connector, users could easily transfer The design was similar and it still featured that curved grip, but there were some other tweaks. Overall, it looks much sleeker and has a D-pad for UI navigation. And it has a volume control, which was lacking on the previous model. The camera can also record 30 and the battery life is And I'd love to show some but I've already purchased I also purchased two others and The Krazy Ken Curse because those were just leaking forbidden battery sugar everywhere. (record scratching) What? It's tasty. (buzzer) - Oh hi, I'm one of Krazy Ken's attorneys here with a quick PSA. Do not eat batteries, especially that potassium hydroxide stuff, that white sugary-looking stuff. No matter how delicious it may look, do not eat it. Please don't sue us! - So I'm gonna skip testing An upcoming model has so you're not missing anything. Anyway, you could also with the included RCA cables. They simply plug into The camera also came with a wrist strap and a soft carrying case. Importing footage was easy. You plug it into your computer and simply drag the files Or you could use the included software. There was a Mac version And oh my gosh, I love those And if you wanted to get your you could still do that. The connector is still at the top. And all this can be yours for $129. And this was great value at the time because back then smartphones And let's face it, video quality was not a prioritized feature. For example, the Nokia or Nock-e-uh depending on where you at 352 by 288 at 15 frames per second. Not even close to the 225. On the other hand, there were which is what I started but the lower-end was around 280 to $400. Arguably, the quality was slightly better, especially with the optical zoom. But that price could still And these cameras were more So in terms of price and ease of use, the 225 In November, Pure Digital of the 225 called the PSV-351. There was also another which could record up to 60 And both cameras also with sharing features. So if you wanted to share for example, you can now do that built in. Okay, Ken, I thought this What's with all these other weird names? Don't worry, we're getting there. But we have to take a little detour first because this next event might have altered tech history as we know it. According to internal by the House Judiciary Google Video product manager Google to make a deal with Pure Digital. This deal would make Google Video the primary video hosting And they were also talking This was the era of YouTube In February, the deal evolved There was a possibility could become a Google-branded product. However, Google Video had something else in mind. (scanner beep) Buy YouTube, which was probably Who knows what would've happened if Google went with Pure Digital instead of YouTube. You may not be watching me right now. Long story short, none of but there was someone else who would have their It was only a matter of time. That aside, Pure Digital's cameras were selling like hotcakes. I don't know where that I don't know why we They were reaching in terms of U.S. market share. So that's nothing to sneeze at. (person sneezing) And that brings us to a May 1st, 2007. Pure Digital was raising money this whole time, but on this day, they announced they raised in their sixth and final round of funding, bringing the total to over $95 million. And more importantly, they relaunched their Point &amp; Shoot Finally, it was called Flip Video. (crowd cheering) By the way, the flip by those car keys when the key flips out. It's just really satisfying. The first official flip model for the 30-minute version, and the F160 for the 60-minute version. And the latter also So the branding was new. It now said Flip on the front. The black option was new. Guess what? They were also $10 But other than that, the guts of the F160 were more or less the same Now we can't talk about cameras So we'll do that soon. But first, we should talk about something that goes very well with a camera. A teleprompter. I've been using Prompter before they reached out that they wanted to sponsor my show. Prompter People make with U.S.-made optical quality glass for every need and every budget. With their teleprompters, I right now, but I can also That's because the camera and the words simply reflect off it. But their products are also So I can add a talent and see myself, and my giant head. This is the Proline Plus model, which comes in various sizes. And if you already have an iPad, you can choose the iPad Cradle option, and you can easily attach your iPad and use it as the prompter monitor. And check this out. This is the Pocket Cue V2 and because it's super tiny and your smartphone as the prompter monitor. Or you can use one of Prompter People's And with the Pocket Cue V2, or your smartphone, and Prompter People makes teleprompters for every need and every budget. So check out the links in my description to get your own Prompter All right, let's test out these cameras. (rock music builds) There's a wall there. Should have known that by now. Other way! (record scratching) Oh yeah, the 225 doesn't work. We'll just focus on the F160. (rock music continues) Right off the bat, Flip's It's literally just turn Everything else is automatic. And when you throw despite it being from 2007, the battery life still works great. It never died unexpectedly on me. And even after letting it sit for a week and picking it back up again, it just continues to work how it should. Instinctively, we may see the but we have to put our brains into 2007. While assessing the any significant issues except for the easily blown-out Realistically, I can't out of a product like this. You'll also see an abundance due to the codec's design and the low 2.8 megabit but it's all about trade-offs. To achieve this 30-minute with 512 megabytes, or one the video has to be extra compressed, sometimes at the loss of some quality to make all of that record And there is a built-in zoom, So the quality will degrade even further the more you zoom in. And I also noticed the but it also doesn't have So it's pretty hard to compose a shot. Especially outside on a sunny day. But don't worry, Pure Digital is taking all that into consideration and they will address it soon. Regarding sound quality, with my Flip because probably due to aging circuitry. So we're testing the original standard which was the F130/F160. However, this is what - And it's pretty darn cool. I think I paid $119 for it today. - By in large, when you the low price, and the time period, the Flip was actually a good product. And that's what kind of frustrates me about this whole freaking story. The Flip is one of these weird exceptions to the other tech fails that I talk about. Like the Lytro and the L16. Remember when I talked about those? Those companies completely flopped, but the products weren't So from a high level, it the whole thing failed. But with Flip, the So why did they just Let's keep looking. Introducing the Flip Video And the 60-minute model was The Ultra also featured a a built-in tripod mount, and up to two-and-a-half hours of battery, compared to two in the non-Ultra. Pure Digital also Tripod Action Mount and But more importantly, the Ultra claims to have improved color and of 4.5 megabits per second Right away, I noticed the Ultra screen is much easier to see, and the boot time is about 10 times faster. And the quality improvements are evident. Immediately, I could see with the grass, sky, and water. On the F1-60, many scenes have And I also noticed way less in the Ultra compared to the F160. Sometimes the F160 and the Ultra both performed I guess it just depends on kicked in at the time, and there's barely a But regardless, I still favor because it results in less Soon the Ultra became the in the United States. Oprah even put it on her - Yeah, and I'm actually the I'm excited about having a - That was the idea. - By 2008, Flip captured over 13% of the U.S. camcorder market. And later in the year, Flip Ultra started selling in Canada and UK. Needless to say, Flip was getting big. Which means it's time The Flip Video Mino. Essentially it was an a tinier package weighing only 3.2 ounces. And I think the thin black and the Mino has an extra satisfying flip. (mechanism clicking) Oh yeah, that's the stuff. Now instead of just the Mino's internal four-hour battery charged over the same connection too, making it the first flip Another feature exclusive to the Mino at the time was customizable designs. Pure Digital collaborated with CafePress, so users could go to the website and customize their own look, or they could choose from a gallery. And this feature made its But there was one more new feature the Mino line introduced. High definition. That's right, on November 12th, the Flip Video Mino HD. Pure Digital's first-ever HD camcorder. So now you can film in 1280 by 720 as opposed to 640 by 480. The built-in software and it featured a It was also available on the By late July 2008, Flip becoming the number one And by April 2009, the over two million units in total, which means in terms of market share, they were only behind one company. (deep, echo-y impact sound) Sony. On April 30th, 2009, Pure Digital launched new Flip Ultra cameras. The first was a second-gen with two hours of It also featured a two-inch color display, and it could recharge optional through the USB connection. But it was still standard definition. But no worries. Meet the Flip Video UltraHD, does not actually record in UltraHD. That term wasn't common in 2009. So it wasn't 4K, it was 1280 by 720. For $199, the Flip Video UltraHD gets you two hours of 720P capacity, mini HDMI, and it included So Pure Digital has an tons of great products, and What a happy ending. We don't get those often. Thanks for watching, and (device dinging) All right, that's a wrap. Good job, everybody. - [Ken] Let's go get some lunch. - [Director] Wait, Ken, - [Ken] No, I got everything. - [Director] It's not You know, you gotta talk about it. - Fine. All right, we're still speeding. All right, pick it up when you're ready. - How do I word this? Okay. When you have a brand like Flip it also becomes extremely valuable. Back in early March 2009, TechCrunch reported Pure And there was one rumored A company which has bought and invested in consumer startups for And the rumors were when Cisco announced they would buy Pure Digital Technologies Cisco's Ned Hooper said &quot;This acquisition will take &quot;to the next level &quot;as the company develops &quot;and drives the next,&quot; (yawns) sorry, I can't even finish reading However, this acquisition seems to align with Jonathan's vision because he wanted Cisco to buy the company so the operation could expand. And so more features could be added. You know, I remember this acquisition, I was so confused because when I think of Cisco, I think of networking and infrastructure. I don't think of consumer So hopefully, they're not getting too out of their comfort zone. The deal closed on May 21st, 2009, and Jonathan became the general manager of Cisco's consumer business division, which included Linksys. Over the next 21 months, the Flip with ad campaigns, product placements, Apple also wanted in on this market. They added a video which had comparable quality. And they added a camera to the iPod Nano. Yeah, that feature didn't last long. Cisco also launched many new products including Flip Share and the SlideHD. I don't really know why they for navigation and scrubbing. You already have a three-inch touchscreen It looks cool, and this is just fun to do. And to Jonathan's wishes, the and more of the Flip lines By September 2010, nearly have been sold. And according to NPD Group, Cisco surpassed Sony as the in the United States. Truly, this was a that many consumers craved. (glass shattering) But everything changed in 2011. On February 10th, Jonathan stepped down from quote, &quot;Pursue other In my opinion, he probably Or, heck, a Cisco executive directly about what was soon to come. Two months later, on April 12th, 2011, Cisco announced a restructuring They would exit aspects and they'd salvage whatever remained, and realign it with their Core routing, switching, and services, collaboration, architectures, and video. And during this restructure, that got the ax was Flip. (metal slamming) It really is a shame to get treated like this. I understand business Dang it. Cisco didn't even sell Flip. They just shut it down, which And you know, maybe they tried to sell it. I don't know for certain. That information isn't publicly available. But even if they did try, I'm not sure they made much of an effort. I only say that because from the New York Times said that she received who considered buying the Flip brand. But none of these companies So did Cisco even make any (somber pensive music) Either way, this shutdown and 550 employees lost their jobs. And to add insult to injury, a new Flip camera, Flip on April 13th, but the dropped one day before that. You'd think a successful brand now with seven million unit would have no chance of But that is what happened. And it kind of makes you wonder if job security actually exists. And it sucks, I get it. I used to work with Full that was my foray into the But when Warner Media acquired them, I was one of the people that got the ax. That happens, it's business. - Business, business, business... - Yes. - Really, it's important to be grateful during those times because you don't know when the status quo is going to change. And it doesn't hurt to Don't burn bridges and because you never know when you might need that connection to get On the bright side, Cisco said it would try to find the employees new jobs within the company. So you get some points there. So that leads us to why. Why did Cisco shut down Flip? Despite it being successful. It's no secret that were getting competitive camera upgrades. So the competition with this decision, at least that's David Pogue from the New York and Jonathan himself also of smartphones was the He said there's still a huge demand for single-purpose devices. And later, he said he was Stating it was clear there to focus on the core business. And I think that's the Focus is about saying no. And when Cisco tried to move they wound up saying yes too much. While Cisco was working sales in its core networking This resulted in investors &quot;We're not confident,&quot; said On top of that, profit margins for Cisco's consumer electronics as their other divisions. Cisco's consumer business of the annual 45 billion in revenue. That's a significant amount of money, but in Cisco's eyes, the juice On April 5th, Cisco CEO John Chambers sent a memo to employees. He admitted the company has, And after several disappointing we will take bold steps and NPD Steven Baker said, &quot;There &quot;that Flip was failing.&quot; And when you see the solid you might agree. Even in Cisco's 2010 fiscal $317 million in sales. So it seemed fine, but isn't up to the customers or the analysts. And part of me thinks more than a few years anyway, But the other part of me Compact non-smartphone cameras still exist today, like GoPro. So perhaps it could have prospered, but Cisco cut its life short. Despite the Flip shutdown, patents, and other IP. So even though they they still had other assets. So what about Jonathan? The guy that went from selling for people to make their own movies. What has he been up to? Oh boy, I can't wait to see what amazing technology he develops next- Grilled cheese. Yeah, shortly after Jonathan of restaurants named The Melt, operating under a FishSix... Restaurant Corporation. He actually had this idea since college. The Melt is still open today with multiple locations in California, but it's under different leadership now. Jonathan left in 2016 to focus on charity, including EducationSuperHighway, which he co-founded in 2012 to school kids in America. And then something kind And I bet a million bucks what happened to Jonathan next. Joe Biden nominated him to be the next U.S. Holy French, Jonathan assumed And as of today, he is still there. Congratulations, Jonathan. You can now top anyone's story No matter what anyone else I was nominated by the president. Good job. (stirring cheerful music) Even though I grew up on Sony, I still have great appreciation for what Jonathan did. Because I know for many, the And I'm certain Jonathan and his team left a huge impact on which helped push pocket-sized And aside from receiving I had a ton of fun playing with the Flip for the past month and a half. And I hope you had a fun and learning all about it. And I recommend you because next month's episode Catch the crazy and pass it on. (lively upbeat music) - Batteries.