There's no doubt that Wicked with many big names applying for the roles in the their roles is a story that needs to be told! and actress had to undergo a lengthy audition a lot of energy and passion; they worked hard to the role of Glinda, it has always been her dream vocal about for many years. Clip. But the crazy she never gave up and actively pursued the role by didn't mind if she would have to act on stage in to be Glinda in Wicked. Clip. Her dream to be she used to listen to the musical in her mom's car musical, Kristin Chenoweth. And the world could those experiences. Clip. Even Kristin remembers wasn't just ordinary for the little girl obsessed However, it gets super wild because Ariana Glinda when the casting call was made, which be the character. Instead, Ariana auditioned as the director, John Chu, explained. Before she was coming for the role of Glinda but was very John said, &quot;We were getting mixed messages. Galinda.' And then my casting director said, Elphaba.' I'm like, 'That wasn't the plan.' Although Ariana had been preparing for Glinda her play Elphaba, and they just allowed her to have process by jokingly asking her to try for Glinda the miscommunication was cleared up, and But then, it also didn't go smoothly the being an actress, many people know Ariana as a first tryout as Glinda. Clip. And to be able to back again, appearing differently from her famous the course of the audition process, which However, Ariana didn't have only two auditions, as most projects, the potential cast is usually to be singing plus acting, which is the exact early in the morning during the audition to wait Not long after Ariana auditioned for Glinda she officially got the role, which made her took great care of Glinda because she nailed the and finally landing the role are two different work. And in preparing for a role like Glinda, Ariana struggled with insecurities after landing became nervous and had some doubts that she &quot;I felt a little bit of the initial nervousness might be able to deliver or not deliver, or why she pushed herself hard to be the best she could. feature in Wicked since she was 10, she actively for a time when any audition for the musical would I don't know when this is happening, but when it's That's all I wanted, was an audition.&quot; So, Ariana indulged in daily acting and voice lessons. Cynthia Erivo, who became super sick after the to have an extended audition just like Cynthia multiple takes like Ariana did, Cynthia had just before getting the role. She even held on to a attached to Elphaba Cynthia was. It's super Cynthia performed at a Disney Hall concert. So, However, Cynthia also felt the magic the which was a life-changing event for her, just it was an instant yes for Cynthia as John even with many others who tried. Clip. When he John was excited to share the good news with Wicked is such a great musical, but before it even where they couldn't help but cry and console each after they were done filming because it began in met each other before featuring in Wicked, so it and there was an instant spark of chemistry their voices were also tested to see if they would invite them both for dinner with Stephen Schwartz Good' together which instantly brightened up the picked the best two people who could bring However, one of the most simple parts for Cynthia shortly after, she started preparing severely of training. She began by taking fitness usual because she was preparing to sing, act, and morning at about 2 a.m. doing one to two hours of Cynthia also had a vocal coach willing to The vocal coach, Antea Birchett, worked breath while performing Defying Gravity preparation for this scene: &quot;Often with big and I don't have the ground under me. But if feet when making those sounds, it's easier to To be cast in Wicked, it's obvious one of the Bailey, who portrays Fiyero, brought on his whole primarily on dancing for one of his auditions, Clip. The casting crew watched his audition tapes after nailing the dance at the audition, Jonathan Another great thing about Wicked the Musical is different roles this time. The Broadway stars appearances in which they showed up as guests showed just how intentional the director is about a balance. Ariana was so emotional to get the women she grew up admiring, &quot;I mean, to have the characters embrace us and embrace our versions they had been texting us and supportive ever got to see or hear our versions of the Interestingly, they weren't the only ones Stephen Schwartz was also featured as an Oz Wizard's palace. The book writer of the musical,