What is a subnet mask? So that is a topic of this we must first talk about what an IP address or device on a network. Every device has to And to be specific, I'm talking about an IPv4 address, written as four numbers, separated separated by periods is called an octet. The An IP address consists of two parts. The first the host address. The network address or network So every network will have a unique address. The within that network such as computers, servers, have a unique host address. Now the way to tell or the host, is where the subnet mask comes in. address. And it reveals how many bits in the IP network portion of the IP address. Now in the and subnet masks in this decimal format here and networks don't read them in this format and binary format, which are 1s and 0s. And these address is this number here. And the binary And these are the numbers that computers and how do we get these binary numbers from this IP 8 bit octet chart. The bits in each octet are right, the first bit has a value of 1 and then then 4, 8, and so on, all the way up to 128. Each number is a 1 then the number that it represents it represents does not count. So by manipulating a number range from 0 - 255. So for example, So how do we get a binary number out of 192? First put 1s under the numbers that would add up to the and then a 1 in the 64 slot. So now if we count you would get a total of 192. All of the other them since we already have our number. So this So let's do the next octet which is and 8. And then all the rest would be 0s. So if underneath them we would get a total of 168. slot and when you add up only 1 you get 1. And because all the binary numbers would be all 0s. Now the subnet mask binary conversion is mask the first 3 octets are 255. So if we the first 3 octets would be all 1s in an octet it will equal 255. And So here we have our IP address and subnet mask to tell which portion of this IP address is the is a 1 it will indicate the position of the cross out all the digits in the IP address And when you do this it will reveal that the network portion and the remaining is the indicate the network address and the 0s indicate use a different IP address and subnet mask and the first 2 octets are 255 and the last digits in the IP address that line up with the first 2 octets is the network portion And let's do one more, and in this subnet mask And then we'll cross out all the digits again, and network portion and the last 3 octets are for of an IP address using these default subnet masks count all the numbers in an octet it will equal in the octet are all 1s, so we really didn't its binary format because it's so simple. But where the first two octets are 255 but the So here is the binary number for this subnet mask. octet, the first three bits are 1s which will you add the first 3 bits in an octet it adds address in its binary format. And again if we cross with the 1s in the subnet mask, we'll see that first 3 bits in the third octet is the network So another question is, why does an IP address have a host part to uniquely assign each device an IP Now the reason for this is manageability. It's networks or sub networks, which is known as there were no small networks. Let's say that an in one huge network. Now when a computer wants to talk to another computer, it needs to know how and where to reach that computer. And it does this by using a broadcast. A broadcast is when a computer sends out data to all computers on a network So for example let's say that this computer here So what happens next is that this computer network asking the target computer to identify problem with this is that every computer on this they are all on the same network. So as you can was broadcasting to every other computer, just to the network and potentially bring it to a halt traffic it would cause. And it might even cause happen on the network it would be very difficult order to prevent this networks need to be broken down and physically separated by using routers. And of excessive traffic because broadcasts do not go So now instead of one large network, this network So now if this computer here wanted to communicate send out a broadcast that only the computers in computer is on a different subnetwork here, which is the router, and then the router will So this is why IP addresses have a network be logically broken down into smaller Hey guys I just want to break in here and tell you more about networking, I highly recommend I linked it in the description below and Just get the book by signing up for the free But even if you cancel your audible membership at yours to keep forever without paying anything. and by doing that you'll also be supporting my you decide to cancel. So once again it's completely let's say that you have a small business and Now let's say that your small business has a total on a single network. And these computers belong to But let's say that you wanted to separate So that each department won't see the other having 1 network in your business, you want So the way to break this network down into smaller changing the default subnet mask by borrowing and using them to create subnets. So in some of the 0s in the host portion into 1s the subnet mask the way it is, it will give us 1 to subtract 2 hosts because the values that are and network address respectively, so we actually this subnet mask so we can produce the 3 borrow 1 bit from the host portion. So here is 128 because when you count the first bit in this will divide the network in half. So now this will give us 2 networks or subnets with and borrow another bit from the host portion. So host portion. So here is our new subnet mask, and this will divide the network even further and And again let's borrow another bit from the And by borrowing 3 bits this will divide the So if we continue breaking down this network, which will give us 16 subnets with 14 hosts which will give us 32 subnets with 6 hosts each. subnets with 2 hosts in each subnet. Now borrow 7 bits it will give us 128 subnets the more bits the network portion borrows from be created doubles with each bit. But also the with each bit. So going back to our business into 3 smaller networks or subnets we would so even though we only need 3 networks, this to work with. So our new custom subnet mask So now our network is broken down Now just to be clear, this video is about subnet because there's a little more to subnetting than subnet masks relate to subnetting. Now IP addresses and subnet masks come in 5 different classes. Which are classes A - E. However 3 of chart of the IP addresses and default subnet masks number in the first octet of the IP address and by Now when an organization needs networking they needs of that organization, which is based on how very large amount of hosts, they will need a class to 16 million hosts. So as you can see, in a default 3 octets are used for hosts which is organization that would need this many hosts provider, because they would need to distribute A class B IP address can produce up to 65,000 to large organizations. And a class C IP addresses are used in small organizations Now subnet masks can also be expressed in stands for classless inter-domain routing, which is a shorter way to write a subnet mask. And it number counting the 1s in the subnet mask. So for a CIDR notation of /24 this means that the 1s. If the CIDR notation is /25 this Or if it's /26 this means that the the cider notation is /8 this means So I want to thank you all for watching to subscribe and get the audio book for free using