Hello everyone, this is Neil Davis from digital our chief of cloud education, and AWS associate-level certification called the exam is currently in beta and is due so we have both taken this exam recently. we're going to give you some tips on what you And as a quick sort of jump ahead, this is not an started with what is this exam all about. Thanks this exam itself was really interesting because, it was harder than I anticipated. It is really need to be a data engineer or at least have because you're going to be hit with a lot of Again, we were in the beta exam, so it's a there's a lot about the core-related core to understand like data pipelines. I'm trying to alog together. You got 170 minutes, 85 questions. experience with it, Neil. Maybe you could, when used almost every minute of that exam, just like interested in taking it, it was originally and it's going to close officially on the 12th of being able to get into the exam. Um, I think out in April of 2024, so you can register the be able to take the final exam, which should have but will become a much more tightened up exam. If you do take it and you're like, &quot;How did I of the exam, again, January 12th, 2024, before you're looking at April 11th, something you did. And I don't want to know how I did how did you feel about the exam? What of go in? Were you surprised by it, Well, the short answer is yes, I was surprised I come from a Solutions Architect background, I'm very well-versed with many of the but I'm not a data engineer. So, you know, I which database to use for a relational online transaction processing or online analytics very data engineering questions. So obviously, They're trying to make it very data job role that this certification is for, okay, I found that the easiest associate certification architect. I'm not a developer. I don't developer associate the easiest of the three I found the DevOps professional exam easier than really that sure how difficult it was going to I found it was very difficult. There was a lot of stuff like, you know, really needing to know how lot of services like Glue, Athena, and Redshift knowledge of how to build out catalogs, form setting up schemas using ETL (extract, transform, I found it quite difficult. What about I did too, and the thing was, is you actually took preview. So as I was stepping into it, I was like, for example, um, I did do a lot of database stuff We, and in shops like that at that time, you did I was also the Exchange 55 administrator, running got some familiarity with it. I've done it, but that, what is the correct select statement, and That's like core knowledge of a data engineer. things like that, which one has better I tell you, the other one that really surprised said where they were starting to talk about security group, and I was like, oh my goodness, the one that really, really floored me was when Turns out, I think it was a blinder in the but still, I think it is sort of wrong with me. SAA Solutions architect associate. You need that if you're a database person, if you really that knowledge. You're probably going to just an arc associate, and you're going to go those database questions and some of those things and that really just surprised me. Just quickly, to take this exam, and you really alluded to it, first at a minimum. There are some questions in commit popped up a couple of times. Yes, so you the developer associate. My pathway through architect associate, do the developer, then do right? No longer is that the case. Now I'd say do But at a minimum, if you have a lot of solutions architect associate first because as VPC endpoints, Transit gateways, uh, S3 event the SAA exam all the time that comes up as well. because you're, you know, too focused on data knowledge as well as the very engineering if you don't understand EBS volumes and choosing this thing is going to trip you up. Because data scientist would just say give me an EC2 blah and then that's all they say. And then somebody's they're saying you're talking about persisting things like that, stuff normally I don't think you are a data engineer, do the SAA. It'll do put it too Neil because I was going to ask and I think what you just said there Do the SAA, do the Dev because there's stuff and then you might be ready to get started you're already a data engineer like and if you're Chris, who is a data scientist, a real deal data of data engineer knowledge, but there's no way blue scientist, knows amazing and can do amazing to have the AWS knowledge. I absolutely think, back to the data side was the whole thing that we, seeing things like vacuum, that to me was a trip even mean? If you're not in data engineering, you Neil. What did your exam prompt you with Yeah, well, obviously, we can't give away but at the same time, we want to maintain the give you some sort of ideas of the sorts of things And yeah, knowing which vacuum command to run Now, I haven't got a clue, so I definitely relation to that particular topic. But yeah, as you mentioned a bit before, Apache Parquet. it's a file format, and that's something that and so understand what the benefits are and system format. There's a lot of different that just you really got to know inside out few of the Apache products like CFus, Spark, no, Apache Airflow, and Anow as well. So some of the services that come up quite often. Definitely, as Redshift. I saw a lot of questions asking got to understand the various different processes using workflows, using ETL (extract, transform, data warehousing--lots and lots of topics, Exactly, you really hit the head with that list the thing that surprised me about the exam too between the services. For example, using event shift and then something about Athena and then these things together in one question. So it on one or two products like Glue; you really need available in that data sort of space in order to don't have El to say it was a surprising I thought I was going to knock it out of the really special knowledge that you've got to have. me more than anything else was how much Glue a large number of Glue questions. Did you see yeah. Glue with Athena, of course, coming up quite And I think the other one that I'm not surprised For those of you who don't know what QuickSight into AWS where you can give it a data backend really nice front ends, stuff that normally time to get straight. I was surprised to see how these total solutions that they were trying to put way forward, that showed up quite a bit. So it was it was just there. It was almost like a, you this thing is out of control. I don't even One thing I wanted to go back to you that I SQL commands that I saw, Neil. As somebody how would you even think to yourself, like, able to do it? Do you think it's the thing It was that much, or I mean just how was particularly as a non-data person Yeah, honestly, I didn't know how to answer SQL commands, but when it gets a little bit more been my job role, so it's not really the sort it's not the sort of question where you can have out logically.&quot; Now, I can do that with a lot of I can eliminate certain things. But I found quite to follow that approach. I wasn't able to work through logically to try and come up with and that's all there was to it. So, yes, um, got to understand your SQL, um, running SQL um, and perform bar different transactions. It a few YouTube videos on that, and finding, I'm there that you can utilize. Absolutely. Yeah, was even though I've done, I've done SQL select you know, creating views so we could quickly pull before, and I was like, I've never seen that type I'm gonna stick with Neil; we're not going a select statement with a very interesting WHERE clause done like that before, so it me think even though I've done it for a long up on my SQL if I really wanted to go into this One of the things that comes to mind is AWS data analytics specialty certification, specialty specification, they come out of course, there is quite a bit of overlap saw that there was a bit more demand in the you know, there is overlap, but there are I can't help but think that this exam felt a level exam versus an associate level exam. Again, that way; maybe it would be a bit easier, and but to me, it felt quite a bit harder. What's other associate-level certifications? Honestly, with my knowledge, I've done AWS Associate, um, I can almost think my way through do some, you know, that's definitely not it, D looks like the better solution. So I can think with the DevOps. Sis Ops was pretty tough. Sis Ops But this one, by far and away, leaves them behind. isn't like a preview of things to come with the see them all get upgraded in a major way where in order to be able to sit these. What I wanted and so they really threw the big stuff at us? in there; they will go back and look at it and things you can do in the betas, obviously, is on a do a comment, and that's what I did. I commented I kind of get the process of what they were going So I write back to them. Here's what I'm thinking: figure this out. It doesn't feel right; it's a I would expect them to come out, Neil, and maybe we saw. If they stick to it, though, this is going to be an associate,&quot; but this has got a thing could almost become really exclusive. Like able to pass it. I do think you're right that it's the final exam. The, as you say, they throw in a they're going to take a lot of data away from the see from their analytics which questions were just perhaps. And they find some kind of medium. I essentially at a basic level. I think that's the then get the exam to be the right level. So at the maybe quite a bit harder than the final one released next year, so we'll have to wait until at But yeah, as you say, for now, it certainly forward to going back and trying to take it no way I passed that thing, that was something so I wanted to ask you about this, but I really want to give people this kind of, is going to get ready for this exam going forward, take the final instead of what we're doing with some of the things they really need to be you know, maybe you feel like they should before even diving into some of these services? need to know your SQL commands. You're going to operational level from that data engineering Athena and Redshift, which come up a lot. Airflow step functions as well. That's something you states and how to use step functions. And then some of those Apache products which run and Ranger, they popped up. Kinesis, you'll need sort of data engineering concepts related to some Data Pipeline, Data Exchange as well. Even at this point in time, there's not a lot of started appearing, some of which appeared before perfectly good. I'm not sure. I would just caution has actually been released may not be well aligned can't just look at the exam guide and work out how we've certainly seen that. We've looked at the very different from what I expected it to be based that the training courses that have come out super the exam. They could be useful; they might help completely. You can go and, of course, have a So have a look through there, understand the article that we're going to link to up some of what we've talked about what sort of facts you want to know, and test course very soon as well and then we understand more about this exam and what Absolutely, and by the way, if you want to get you can always go out to AWS's website. You Associate page, go through it. This is for the look at what they're sort of looking in terms of for anyone who was listening to this and all those different services in this exam,&quot; they start listing out the services that you it is quite a bit. They're not playing around with be wary. The out-of-scope is like one page; then aware of that and understand that Neil just put it Make sure you're okay with understanding you understand the basics of data engineering, and start studying for this. And yes, be careful; way too early, and Neil and I have been doing we get surprised, it's a surprising situation. guys. Make sure that you like this video if channel. We're going to be bringing out many insights and tips on various AWS certification