Translator: Joseph Geni So, why does good sex so often fade, even for couples who continue And why does good intimacy contrary to popular belief? Or, the next question would be, can we want what we already have? That's the million-dollar question, right? And why is the forbidden so erotic? What is it about transgression And why does sex make babies, and babies spell erotic (Laughter) It's kind of the fatal And when you love, how does it feel? And when you desire, how is it different? These are some of the questions that are at the center of my exploration and its concomitant So I travel the globe, and what I'm noticing is that everywhere there seems to be a crisis of desire. A crisis of desire, desire as an expression of our free choice, desire that has become a central concept as part of modern love You know, this is the first time where we are trying to experience not because we want 14 children, for which we need to have even more and not because it is exclusively This is the first time about pleasure and connection So what sustains desire, And at the heart of sustaining I think, is the reconciliation On the one hand, our need for safety, for dependability, for reliability, for permanence. All these anchoring, that we call home. But we also have an equally for adventure, for novelty, for mystery, for risk, for danger, for the unknown, you get the gist. For journey, for travel. So reconciling our need for security into one relationship, or what we today like to call used to be a contradiction in terms. Marriage was an economic institution in which you were in terms of children and social status and succession and companionship. But now we want our partner but in addition I want you and my trusted confidant and we live twice as long. (Laughter) So we come to one person, to give us what once Give me belonging, give me identity, give me continuity, but give me transcendence Give me comfort, give me edge. Give me novelty, give me familiarity. Give me predictability, give me surprise. And we think it's a given, and toys and lingerie (Laughter) (Applause) So now we get to the existential Because I think, in some way -- and I'll come back to that -- but the crisis of desire So why does good sex so often fade? What is the relationship How do they relate, Because therein lies So if there is a verb, for me, And if there is a verb that comes In love, we want to have, We want to minimize the distance. We want to contract that gap. We want to neutralize the tensions. We want closeness. But in desire, we tend to not really want to go back Forgone conclusion In desire, we want an Other, somebody on the other side that we can go spend some time with, that we can go see what goes on You know? In desire, we want a bridge to cross. Or in other words, Desire needs space. And when it's said like that, But then I took a question with me. And I've gone to more than 20 countries with &quot;Mating in Captivity,&quot; when do you find yourself Not attracted sexually, And across culture, across religion, there are a few answers So the first group is: I am most drawn to my partner when we are apart, when we reunite. Basically, when I get back in touch with my ability to imagine myself when my imagination comes and when I can root it which is a major component of desire. But then the second group I am most drawn to my partner when I see him in the studio, when she is onstage, when he is in his element, when she's doing something when I see him at a party when I see her hold court. Basically, when I look at my partner Probably the biggest Radiant, as in self-sustaining. I look at this person -- people rarely talk about it, five centimeters from each other. I don't know in inches how much that is. But it's also not when the other person that you no longer see them. It's when I'm looking at my partner where this person that is already is momentarily once again And in this space between me lies that movement toward the other. Because sometimes, as Proust says, mystery is not but it's about looking with new eyes. And so, when I see my partner doing something I look at this person and I momentarily and I stay open to the mysteries And then, more importantly, or myself -- it's the same -- what is most interesting Nobody needs anybody. There is no caretaking in desire. Caretaking is mightily loving. It's a powerful anti-aphrodisiac. (Laughter) I have yet to see somebody by somebody who needs them. Wanting them is one thing. Needing them is a shot down and women have known that forever, because anything will usually decrease the erotic charge. (Laughter) For good reasons, right? And then the third group when I'm surprised, as somebody said to me when he's in his tux, so I said, you know, it's either the tux or the cowboy boots. But basically it's when there is novelty. But novelty isn't about new positions. It isn't a repertoire of techniques. Novelty is, what parts What parts of you are just being seen? Because in some way one could say Sex is a place you go. It's a space you enter inside yourself So where do you go in sex? What parts of you do you connect to? What do you seek to express there? Is it a place for transcendence Is it a place for naughtiness Is it a place where you and not have to take Is it a place where you can What comes out there? It's a language. It isn't just a behavior. And it's the poetic of that language which is why I began to explore You know, animals have sex. It's the pivot, it's biology, We are the only ones which means that it's sexuality We are the only ones have a blissful time, multiple orgasms, and touch nobody, We can hint at it. We can experience that powerful which is a mortar to desire. The ability to imagine it, to experience it as if it's happening, while nothing is happening and everything is happening, So when I began to think about eroticism, I began to think about the poetics of sex. And if I look at it as an intelligence, then it's something that you cultivate. What are the ingredients? Imagination, playfulness, novelty, curiosity, mystery. But the central agent is really But more importantly, who are the couples what sustains desire, I had to go back the mystical definition, and I went through it by looking, actually, at trauma, which is the other side. And I looked at it, looking at the community which was a community in Belgium, and in my community, those who didn't die, And those who didn't die lived could not experience because when you're vigilant, you can't lift your head and be playful and safe and imaginative. Those who came back to life were those who understood They knew how to keep themselves alive. And when I began to listen to the sexlessness I sometimes would hear people but generally, people want better sex, and better is to reconnect of vibrancy, of renewal, of vitality, of Eros, of energy that sex used to afford them, or that they've hoped And so I began to ask &quot;I shut myself off when ...&quot; &quot;I turn off my desires when ...&quot; Which is not the same question as, &quot;What turns me off is ...&quot; And people began to say, I feel dead inside, when I feel old, when I haven't had time for myself, when I haven't had a chance when I don't perform well at work, when I feel low self esteem, when I don't have a sense of self-worth, when I don't feel like I have to receive pleasure.&quot; And then I began to ask &quot;I turn myself on when ...&quot; Because most of the time, &quot;You turn me on, what turns me on,&quot; and I'm out of the question, you know? Now, if you are dead inside, the other person can do It won't make a dent. (Laughter) So I turn myself on when, I turn on my desires, I wake up when ... Now, in this paradox what seems to be so puzzling is that the very ingredients mutuality, reciprocity, protection, worry, are sometimes the very ingredients Because desire comes that are not always jealousy, possessiveness, aggression, power, dominance, naughtiness, mischief. Basically most of us will get turned on that we will demonstrate You know, the erotic mind If everybody was fantasizing we wouldn't be having such (Laughter) But no, in our mind up there that we don't always know because we think love and in fact desire comes in the best sense of the word: the ability to stay connected So I want to draw because this need to reconcile we are born with that. Our need for connection, or our need for security and adventure, or our need for togetherness and if you think about the little kid and who is cozily nested here and at some point all of us to discover and to explore. That's the beginning of desire, that exploratory need, And then at some point they turn And if you tell them, &quot;Hey kiddo, the world's a great place. Go for it. There's so much fun out there,&quot; then they can turn away connection and separateness They can go off in their imagination, off in their playfulness, all the while knowing that there's But if on this side &quot;I'm worried. I'm anxious. I'm depressed. My partner hasn't taken care What's so good out there? Don't we have everything then there are a few little reactions that all of us can pretty much recognize. Some of us will come back, came back a long time ago, and that little child who comes back is the child who will forgo in order not to lose the other. I will lose my freedom And I will learn to love in a certain way that will become burdened with extra worry and extra responsibility and I won't know how to leave you in order to go play, in order to discover, Translate this into adult language. It starts very young. It continues into our sex lives Child number two comes back but looks like that &quot;Are you going to be there? Are you going to curse me, scold me? Are you going to be angry with me?&quot; And they may be gone, And those are often the people &quot;In the beginning, it was super hot.&quot; Because in the beginning, the growing intimacy wasn't yet so strong that it actually led The more connected I became, the less I was able to let go The third child doesn't really come back. So what happens, it's that real dialectic piece. On the one hand you want the security On the other hand if you can't go, you can't culminate, you don't get excited in the body and the head So in this dilemma about reconciling there are a few things that I've come One, they have a lot of sexual privacy. They understand that belongs to each of them. They also understand five minutes before the real thing. Foreplay pretty much starts They also understand you begin to stroke the other. It's about you create a space maybe where you leave the Agile program -- (Laughter) And you actually just enter that place who is taking care of things Responsibility and desire just butt heads. They don't really do well together. Erotic couples also understand It's pretty much like the moon. It has intermittent eclipses. But what they know They know how to bring it back. And they know how to bring it back because they have which is the myth of spontaneity, which is that it's just going while you're folding the laundry and in fact they understood that whatever is going to just happen Committed sex is premeditated sex. It's willful. It's intentional. It's focus and presence. Merry Valentine's. (Applause)