Hi everyone and welcome back. Today, I'll be health and selfcare. I love to be able to and talk about some things that are quite normal everywhere. These habits can be done anywhere and hope is that by the end of this video, you will could try to create more balance and health and The Netherlands are always ranked near the top year we came in fifth. And this is due to things multicultural society, public transportation Netherlands are not perfect either. But for habits of individual people. Things that one happiness and wellbeing. And even when it not perfect. For example we love anything fried. lots of mayo. But there are certain habits that I really love. And that have to do with how we Let's start with the first thing, which is language. Niks is the Dutch word for nothing. So verb. So nisken means nothing-ing, or the art of every once in a while, especially on the weekends. filled with work, social activities, hobbies, cleaning, grocery shopping. So niksen is a way while. And we just do nothing productive, without just lounging around the house, not really doing Listen to some music. Watch a show you love for When the weather is nice, we love to kind of just have one. It is really not so much about actually couch literally not doing anything. But it's with a purpose, or in order to achieve something. it comes to self-care days on social media, it's just wear your pajamas or lounge wear. No makeup, a saying where we say 'lekker stinken in huis', own home. Not necessarily something I recommend, niksen day. It's also different from things like habits and they also focus on like being in the it is okay to let your mind wander. You don't or like being present and aware in the simply just existing. Niksen is a way for us to us. I think that is the essence of niksen. Just you have to do, no balls to keep up in the air, no life, or the responsibilities of life. And for me, able to do life. And it's very normal for us when you like what you do on the weekend, someone might bit of cleaning, a bit of niksen, just nice. And nice. If this sounds like something you want to day, or a morning or an afternoon, of niksen time really nice. Number two is language learning. So aside from speaking Dutch, most of us can also can hold a conversation in English, over 70% in I think this is mostly because the Netherlands is But many people pass through our country. French in school, so that we can communicate the surrounding countries for a holiday. And Dutch the locals in their own language. And we also So many of us actually grow up hearing a lot of really great cognitive benefits. So it is a very languages. So of course my business is in English. now also learning Spanish. Aside from being really memory and problem solving skills, focus, mind agile. And you get bragging rights if you can can also help to keep your brain healthy in old in another language, that's cognitive training. to learn a language and they're all fun. In the to be able to speak a language with confidence, it someone. I know when I was in Japan for 2 weeks, I practicing by myself before that. So that's why This is a platform where you can find language very happy to say that they are also sponsoring improve your conversation skills and pronunciation They have over 2,000 tutors and over 30 Spanish, Chinese and for me, Japanese. I and it's so much fun. We get to talk about all green tea. And she will teach me the right words How it works is you can choose a tutor learn and the language that you can already so you can always have things to talk about. and book a 30 minute trial lesson. If you enjoyed really flexible. You can always switch between your subscription anytime. Maybe you're a complete upcoming trip. Maybe you're like me and you want So I asked Akiko-san to always correct me if I'm I said 'ii da to omoimasu', which I often it would be better to say 'ii to omoimasu'. language. Live XP gave me a really great offer to then you can get a 30 minute trial lesson you can even get 30% of your subscription information is in the description box. And a video. Now let's talk about another one of my how could I make this more gezellig? Oh I know... will learn when you come here. Which I know is you know, it is what it is. And it is so important it is so ingrained in our culture that it impacts for going to the dentist. That's never gezellig. the more well-known Danish word hygge, but there Taking something ordinary and making it more The word derives from the word 'gezel', which camaraderie. It is an abstract feeling that special and cozy and nice. And connecting with if they want to grab a cup of coffee. Depending grabbing a cup of coffee to go and then drinking But that is not how to Dutch do it. Because we take some time. We find a nice place to sit. break. So gezellig is about savoring pleasures our cafes and restaurants look so nice and cozy. going to sit down there there and they won't goes: gezelligheid kent geen tijd. Which means then someone might comment like oh, that's not able to relax in the moment. Some examples are to do that if we can. Or meeting a friend at a bar and laughing, and before you know it, the whole with your friends on a terrasje, which is outdoor always serving a little cookie with your coffee. own life? When you're with a friend, don't take get lost in conversation and forget about the time Light a candle. Use your most beautiful cups. picture frames. Always serve something lequer or a small piece of chocolate, or a single are no screens allowed. And turn the ordinary find happiness in the little pleasures of life, things. Next one is about going outside. Dutch even with the weather being like rainy and we do like to try and go outside when we of spring finally arrive. Dutch people finally there. So after having a exceptionally the first sunny days, if you go outside, you will this... Just kind of soaking up the rays. So we weather, because it can change every 5 seconds. to be sunny, I think most people will probably instead of spending it inside in the cafeteria, buienradar, which will let us know exactly if or so. And how we can just kind of go out when especially in the spring and summer, which is outdoor seating at cafes and restaurants. for 30 minutes. We will spend hours there. and have conversations and laugh and enjoy the do with the weather is uitwaaien. Which is going letting the wind kind of get in your head and blow we'll just go we'll just wear a jacket. We tend shakes you up a little and it gets you out of your strong wind. And the sound especially of strong I will do is I'll put a scarf or something to it. When you just have like a really long walk North Sea. And then afterwards you just feel like ice skating. So almost everyone here knows how to since we were able to go skating on like natural would go and we would spend the whole day skating Next habit is about efficiency. So Dutch and not working harder. And so part of that is value working a lot of hours. We want things done that we can have that work life balance, and spend research for this video I actually learned that we in an office here, most likely around like 4:00, at their desks. And then once it's 5:00 p.m. maybe leave. And you know by 5:30, almost no one will returning to our real life. One of the ways that we communicate. And we have a very direct way of known as Dutch directness or Dutch rudeness. And although we we do have rude people here, wasting time. Being straight to the point. Saying But I know this can be quite shocking for people not used to this direct way of communicating. sometimes. For example if you get a haircut, And I don't think that we need to do that like that certainly. It's more about clearly no subtext and no hinting around. If you find it speak up at a meeting, or to set boundaries with know bringing out your inner Dutchy and just being The next one is about our hobbies. Because we have more time available for hobbies. And interests outside of work. Which I never really people like expats coming here from the United 'what do you do for work' isn't really one someone when we meet them for the first time. It but it will not be the first or the second in what you like to do outside of work. A study showed the most popular hobbies and activities in traveling were the most popular. Followed sport and fitness, and video games. Other things There are several health benefits to engaging you enjoy it. So it can help with mental health of depression. It can lower stress. It can lower with your inner Dutchie a little bit more, maybe ways to do that a little bit more. And it doesn't hours available for this new hobby. Like reading Or let's say you're starting an herb garden on do things every day for long stretches of time. you enjoy, just because you like doing them. And like how we celebrate birthdays, all just sitting and being very stingy with our money. But my for things that you might like to try yourself. of these? Are they new for you, or maybe you Please let me know in the comments section. And I did see niksen floating around online. Which thing for us. I wasn't really realizing that about online. Also don't forget to check out for only 99 cents. Links and the information questions, comments, conversations down below. you all again next week. Bye bye. Okay so I couldn't find a scrub daddy, but they did have this sponge is a lifechanger. It is so much