After the breakout of attacks in the Red Sea USS Eisenhower, nicknamed Ike, was sent to help the US Navy it was a historic and unprecedented of "firsts" achieved, while engaging Houthie's the Eisenhower strike group launched 155 60 air-to-air missiles and released 420 pilots logged over 31,000 flight hours while a carrier deployment lasts around 6 months, but the US Navy extended Eisenhower's deployment a replacement. But there was a problem: there You see, the US Navy has five aircraft which typically patrol the Atlantic and the Middle patrol the Indo-Pacific. The problem was that when all the carriers in the east coast fleet USS Theodore Roosevelt, which was stationed but to do so it had to ditch its original leaving a defensive gap in its wake. But companies to purchase American shipyards, how rest of the world combined, the United States even having more ships won't resolve the current This is U.S.S. Gerald R Ford, the newest and built by any nation in history, and right now, outbreak of war in Israel, the Gerald R Ford and finally returned to the U.S. in January 2024 deadliest carrier, it's stuck in port, and won't The reason being that the ship is undergoing year, during which repairs are made to the ship this process, USS Ford is receiving software order to reduce vulnerability to sea mines, and Some argue that the main reason the both the East and West Coasts, boils carriers on time. But other factors strained supply chains and lengthy construction Aircraft carriers are big, like really big, and of parts on each, from the screws holding up generating power for the entire ship, and all When these ships return from overseas months to an entire year's worth of repairs, everything. During those repairs, the ship can't was parked at while different crews work to But this is actually causing some issues, as have been short for several years now. "Carrier Shortage" But there are 11 full-sized which is more than the rest of the world It's time you learn about the "Rule of Thirds". should always be available for combat, while 1/3 final 1/3 is recuperating after participating According to the "Rule of thirds", at any given another third is preparing for or coming off maintenance. Since the US Navy has 11 flattops, 3 to 4 carriers to be deployed at any given time. deployed, USS Theodore Roosevelt, and USS Abraham I should note that in case of emergency, it even seven flattops to be deployed at the as it may take up to 90 days to surge. certification cycle would have to be bypassed, while steaming to the combat area. But wouldn't all of them at the same time? The answer While the nuclear powered American the fuel inside of the reactors only lasts the reactors need to be refueled. This is known only done once at the midpoint of a carrier's period any nuclear powered ship can go through. hole is cut into the hull of the ship, to allow from the catapult system, to water purifiers, air out and replaced with more modern versions. took up to four years, the Navy is experiencing the Newport News Shipbuilding yard to start their John C Stennis were found to have significant seeing right now, that seemed to catch everyone by by the on board nuclear powerplant, and convert making them absolutely critical for carrier the damage was discovered, but crews were not rebuild them entirely. This led to USS two years on top of the already four year it would have been Washington that would have it still had several months left of repairs. USS tacking on additional repairs meaning that it carrier instead of four years. The delays forced with USS Washington sent from South America to with USS Ronald Reagan. Hull exchanges are when and it allows for a carrier to quickly redeploy Hopefully the Washington's crew remembered to give But if carriers are so important to more workers to help fix them? In World 100 different carriers at once. Well In the United States, there are only four national down from 19 about 50 years ago. Working of skill and training, and the Navy is experienced crew members as they retire. lack the experience, and generally Recently foreign companies like Hanwha, have purchased former military it might seem counterintuitive, this is as they're hoping the added international to improve repair times or else lose out on During the 2020 COVID pandemic, productivity at and the builders of new ship components When you measure carrier repair in any kind of delays can cause surprisingly felt four years later. Depending on which aircraft and 15,000 people are required for the job. Some of the work is performed by the thousands home while at sea, but the Navy has struggled to Ford have reduced their crew numbers by 500 which Sailors famously dread working calling some of the docking ports where Balancing the deployment numbers of aircraft and it's up to the President and Secretary of worth the risk and cost. These deployments but with a nuclear powered aircraft for decades as long as the ship receives a the sailors on board to be thrilled if you But let's say the United states needed issue? Why not just do less maintenance on coffee makers is broken? Well then you would After returning from an overseas deployment in but the group in charge of sourcing repair parts time. Three years later in 2022, the ship failed for repairs. Finally two years later in 2024, Unit for the first time in five years, but back after its rudders failed. Currently the on the ship that could last all the way until So, is the United States with its massive fleet Or are there just too many missions that need Simply building more carriers would be unlikely to Navy has neither the sailors nor the maintainers has too few carriers. They just don't have enough While the Navy cannot control where and when different ways to react to them. One is the use the American Navy has been training on how to have allowing for other countries to do a bit more of The United State's allies have begun offering up the patrol gaps. This isn't a perfect solution, as and the French De Gaulle, are smaller carriers. VTOL aircraft, and only the French Carrier Charles Ultimately though, having these carriers is for help is boring, and won't convince congress Because aircraft carriers are the United international diplomacy, it's unlikely that go down anytime soon, unless a lot of Due to the demand rising so quickly, of new carriers to join the fleet. As of and will be the second Ford Class Carrier in is about 35% complete, and its sister The current US Navy plan calls for one-for-one Ford-class flattops, over the next 40 years. The 12, in the late 2020s, as these new ships are put left until retirement, so we'll be able to see the United States only has its 11 to work with,