So, if God feels distant to you right now, All of us, even in our strongest moments, I wish I had a sign right now. I just feel uneasy. I don't feel at rest.&quot; That's all completely human and completely Sometimes God uses distance in our feelings I thought it was important to say that right distance, I believe God is calling us to spiritual See, I don't want to just get through it. I'm tired of just getting through it. What's the point? Let's just all go to heaven right now if all They have a harp with my name on it up there. Come on. I sing like Zeke in heaven. Just let me get to heaven and get my glorified Let me get my eternal larynx in heaven and No, no, no. &quot;God, don't just get me through it. Teach me.&quot; There's something about distance. Graham asked, &quot;Why did God do all of the miracles It's not that God does fewer miracles; it's It's like, &quot;God, why won't you do a miracle?&quot; while you're watching me preach on your phone. This is a miracle...right now, in this moment. Take a breath. It's a miracle. Think about all the sin he canceled. We're talking about everything that was canceled. I'll tell you what was canceled: the record to the cross, and I bear it no more. So it is well with my soul. I looked at my portfolio for finances. It wasn't well. But then I looked at my soul, and I found there's some kind of hope that comes rising When God feels distant, he isn't. He's positioning you for a miracle. Do you know what's really cool about the ark? It was called the ark of the testimony, the That's really cool, because in a time when been through before... You hear me. Are you going through something you've never We all are. We're all going through it. Be nice. We're all going through it. Think about it before you post. We're all going through it. We are all going through it in different ways. Maybe God is going to make you a miracle for Have you thought about that? In moments where we're going through places like God is distant. He isn't. He's showing us what can't be canceled. He's shutting down everything right now. They are shutting down everything right now. I'm waiting on Holly to close the kitchen. I hope she doesn't cancel the kitchen, but Every time I turn around... I'm waiting to turn on my phone and it's canceled. Instagram told me to stay home. Everything is being canceled. Isn't it so cool that as God is bringing them That's what it's called: the covenant. That's not your agreement with God; that's Let's be honest. If it was dependent on the first one, if it through. If it was dependent on me to have perfect so grateful that when I'm going through what before, God gives me something to look at his oath, his covenant, his blood. Watch this. &quot;Support me in the whelming flood.&quot; That's the old hymn from the Methodist Church. Do you know what I found myself doing the I found myself breaking out the ark, the old I started quoting hymns around my house the Some of us are going through a new thing, You have not prayed in three months. You might want to pray a little bit right You have not been very grateful lately. Now would be a good time to bless the Lord. Now would be a good time for Martin Luther &quot;A mighty fortress is our God, a bulwark...&quot; What? A bulwark? You haven't talked about bulwarks in a long I need a bulwark right now. I'm fighting a big Devil. I need a mighty fortress. I need a safe place. I need a shelter. God is with me. Verse 5: &quot;Joshua told the people, 'Consecrate Watch this verse. This is the whole thing. Y'all thought I was preaching? I wasn't preaching yet. This is the sermon. &quot;Consecrate yourselves...&quot; That's your part. Not isolation...consecration. It's just all in how you look at it. I wonder what God is preparing us for right I wonder what he is mending, like he mended In those moments, God is mending. I wonder what he's mending in our hearts in to be still and know he is God. He'll be exalted above the heavens. The horse and his rider he has thrown into All the old stuff comes back. See, here it comes. It's the convergence of what God has done, presence. &quot;Consecrate yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord Do you see how clear that is? In that verse, God has a job and you have Do you see that word tomorrow? That's on God's job description. Do you see it in the Scripture? Put it in the chat. I need you to say this. &quot;Tomorrow is God's job.&quot; So, here's what we have to do: we have to today's process. &quot;Consecrate yourselves.&quot; That's today's process. That's cleansing. That's setting apart. That's knowing he is God. That's devotion. That's this. That's like, &quot;I'm not going to stop coming get there. In fact, I'm going to use this time... I'm going to start sharing the gospel more I'm going to make the Devil so mad he's going I'm going to start forwarding every clip, We put this song out the other day called is because God gave us this song, and I don't to spread the blessing. So, I have a job; God has a job. What is God's job? God's job is tomorrow. That's like when I went to Australia the first Is anybody watching from Australia right now? Yeah, I see you lighting up the comments. I see you, Cheryl, Eric, Brandon. I see you from the Ukraine. Tomorrow is God's job. But here's what's awesome: somebody is watching The first time I went to Australia to preach, and went straight to the stage to preach, like 10:00 a.m., and then I was preaching a shower. Just before I started to head over to the the kids. This was years ago, so the kids were really I FaceTimed them because my room had this Pastor Phil Pringle put me up in this beautiful I wanted the kids to see it. The sun was shining so pretty over the harbor, I said, &quot;Hey, kids, I just wanted to say hey I was telling them how we were across the I was telling them, &quot;Well, it's tomorrow in Remember, they were really little. Holly was tucking them into bed, and they're I think Abbey was already asleep. She was really little. And then Graham and Elijah, and we talked I said, &quot;I've got to go preach now,&quot; and Elijah you go, will you tell us what happens tomorrow?&quot; It was like he had this moment. &quot;You're already there. You're my father.&quot; See, I have to let God be in my tomorrow and That's all I can do. I cannot predict the path. All I can do is walk in it. Yet the beauty of the passage is this: if already in your tomorrow. So all this &quot;How long is it going to last?&quot; That's God's job. You know what? I thank God for everybody who is helping in remedies and solutions to our nation for this We are praying for you. We celebrate you. We love you. One of the good things that's going to come people we used to think were unimportant who stop the virus. It's not going to be just celebrities who going to be people who are standing on the God told the priests, &quot;You go stand in the That must have been scary. God was bringing them through. God is going to bring us through. It's so important that we don't get so focused wants us to get out of it. When God says, &quot;Stop.&quot; He makes me lie down. God is my guide. He told them to camp before crossing over, 15, I want to show you one more thing. Is this word helping you? If it's helping you, just put something on Put a heart. Put a purple heart. Put an orange heart. Put a red heart. Put three pink hearts. I'll take anything right now. This is the message God gave me. I was going to approach it the other way. I was going to say we're positioned for a If I call it that, people are going to think They're going to think, 'Oh, when this virus What about the miracle in the middle of it? That's what my attention was drawn to. Before I go, I want to show you Joshua 3:15. When God says &quot;Stop.&quot; The Bible says, &quot;The Jordan is at flood stage Well, that's a sermon right there. God didn't bring them through some shallow The size of the problem creates the opportunity. When I say we're positioned for a miracle, When I say we're positioned for a miracle, something we see as really big. Sometimes we have to see it from a distance. Can you imagine having to follow that little The ark of the covenant. God keeps his covenant. We have to remember that right now. If he said it, it's sure. If he promised it, it's rock solid. God promised me the grace for today and the his job. What that means is I can't wait for something &quot;I need to know what they are going to...&quot; We all want to know, but we've never been God is with me not just to get me through He's with me in it. That's the message. That's why it's called the ark of his presence. Consecrate yourself today. Be present. God is calling us to greater presence, not Hey, be careful that you don't sit there and Connection is about depth, not about breadth. In this moment, I believe God wants to connect our lives. He will do amazing things among you, things Ephesians 3:20. God, give them a miracle. There's a mom right now who needs a miracle. There's someone who can't get to their mom They're not able to be with them physically. They need a miracle from you. Give it to them. But not when it's over...while I'm in it. There's a miracle in it. The Bible says, &quot;The Jordan is at flood stage There was no way they could have crossed it &quot;Yet as soon as the priests who carried the the water's edge, the water upstream stopped When God said, &quot;Stop,&quot; the water was cut off. Do you see it? When God said, &quot;Stop,&quot; the Jordan River had When Jesus said, &quot;Stop,&quot; the storm had to outside the boat, he had to stop what was I believe God is saying, &quot;Stop&quot; today to the your imagination and interrupting your rest. It said as soon as their feet touched, the When God said, &quot;Stop,&quot; the water that was them separated, stopped flowing and piled I love the Word of God. It's in the distance. God is going to keep it at a distance. God is going to get you through this, and call us closer to himself. Do you see it? It's the revelation right there in the text. It stopped flowing opposite Jericho. Thank you for your Word, Lord. Verse 17: &quot;The priests who carried the ark middle of the Jordan and stood on dry ground...&quot; Get set, because we're going to worship in We don't worship when we get through hard &quot;...and stood on dry ground, while all Israel the crossing on dry ground.&quot; Oh yeah. We're going to get through this. That's not the question. The question is...Why did the priests stop See, God had told Joshua something very important It's not just that you get through it; it's When the priests stopped, God said, &quot;Stop!&quot; Stop right now and say, &quot;This is the day the We can't take things for granted anymore, This morning is a miracle. His mercies are a miracle. We can't take it for granted anymore. So God says, &quot;Stop in the middle of it.&quot; Stop projecting, and stop living in what it Stop right here in the middle. They each took out a stone, and they carried I declare over your life today... I want you to receive this right now. I don't care if you're watching this with pancakes and one of them is on their phone. This word is for you. It's for you. God is saying, &quot;Stop.&quot; There has been a spirit of fear that has been It has been keeping you from your peace. It has been robbing you of your joy. You've been living in a fictional tomorrow, Make the decision, &quot;I'm going to trust God I'm not going to miss the miracle of today