- Good morning, I hope It's Mark Wiens, I'm in And Chanthaburi is very well And so today is gonna be an amazing day. We're about to meet up, well actually, we're about to get picked up on a boat by Lum Tom, which means Uncle Tom. Uncle Tom is known for his oysters, he's known for his seafood, he's gonna pick us up in a boat, we're gonna go to his oyster farm. I'm not exactly sure but then he's gonna take us to eat seafood at his restaurant, it looks like it, it's gonna be a thrilling day, with you in this video right now. If you're just joining me on this series, this is day two of our food and travel trip. From Chanthaburi town we And this pier is called Pah-chah-lay-up. It's about a fifteen minute drive and Uncle Tom should be pulling - (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] Honey, can you - (speaking in foreign language) - We met up with Uncle Tom, Lum Tom. (speaking in foreign language) - (speaking in foreign language) - He was here right on time (motor rattling) (lighthearted synthesizer music) Oh yeah, this is just This area has a lot of mangrove forests and a lot of brackish water as well. So I think we're gonna cruise around, but the highlight is gonna be when we go to Uncle Tom's oyster farm. And he's gonna harvest He just said in those nets, they are farming macau which are grouper. (lighthearted synthesizer) This area next to the is all brackish water, so plus fresh water. And by the way, for this entire trip, we're gonna be taking some boats, so we got Micah his very own life jacket, which I'm pretty excited about. And he is, too. (lighthearted synthesizer) (motor put-putting) - (speaking in foreign language) - That was about a 30 minute boat ride and we have arrived to his oyster plot. Oh, I am excited, this is very cool. But he was telling us they take one and a half to grow to their full size. - (speaking in foreign language) - [Woman] (speaking in foreign language) - (speaking in foreign language) - [Woman] (speaking in foreign language) - (speaking in foreign language) Wow, yeah, you could do that's for sure. - [Tom] Okay, helping Mark up. (speaking in foreign language) - This is so cool, and the is that they attach them to the strings, and so they have a string of oysters so that they just hang Then they just grow along that string so that you have them already collected when you need to eat them. - [Tom] (speaking in foreign language) - That was very cool to the restaurant, or his to eat seafood. (lighthearted synthesizer music) (motor put-putting) - [Tom] (speaking in foreign language) - Oh, man, this is just an entire floating bamboo in the middle of the water. The peace and the Oh, they have a homestay here, too, so you can actually stay here in this room on the floating bamboo dock. Uncle Tom is absolutely awesome. He is preparing a bed now for You can just smell the aromas of seafood wafting through the seafood-y air. - [Woman] (speaking in foreign language) (oil crackling) - Shh, Micah passed out. (lighthearted synthesizer music) - [Tom] (speaking in foreign language) - [Mark] First time I ever saw - (speaking in foreign language) - [Woman] (speaking in foreign language) - We are sitting down for this borderline ridiculous quantity of seafood. This is a gigantic seafood feast. And everything is cooked everything is fresh, the shining though, that's like Oh there's just nothing they are massive, you can and kind of like slurping around. Oh he just freshly opened immediately, I'm going Yeah, look at the size of that, and I'm gonna, I just have But after this one, I will show you how to eat it Thai style. This is one of those oysters where you're not really sure how to go in. If you go in from the or if you just kind of Ah, let me see, oh yeah, Okay, I'll go for the (laughing) Oh that's just as unbelievably It has zero like kind of or taste to it, it's so pure. It's like jelly, it melts in your mouth. These particular oysters Maybe that's because they're but you don't have like that They taste fresh and For my next oyster, we So what you do first is you which is the roasted chili jam. I'm gonna add some of that Next up for hong jiao, these There might be a little I'm going all in on that. Those look kind of like cornflakes, but I can assure you, they are shallots. Next, for a chili, and a on top there, a clove of garlic, a chili, and next you add some nam jim seafood, which is the seafood sauce. There's lime in here, there's already, too. A little bit of this, maybe a Looks ridiculous. Okay, I think I got all the components. Except there is something that you have to chase it with as well. That is just absolutely insanely beautiful with all those toppings. Maybe I should spoon this guy. Oh, look at the size, Oh, look at that, okay, Spoon it out and then You can barely fit that into the spoon. Oh, and I lost the garlic, that garlic, let me put that Wow, this is a giant oyster one-biter and I don't really wanna eat well, it will be kind of fun, but I don't, I just don't know of okay what I wanna say is just sorry for the giant bite I'm about to take. But I think that really is the best way to eat this oyster, I you risk loosing all (lighthearted synthesizer music) And then the final step, And that completes the Mmm, they have it totally figured out. You got the oyster, that slimy factor. You've got the nam prik which is a little bit sweet You've got the sour spicy seafood sauce, you've got the garlic and chili, you've got the crispy shallots, and then finally the herb to kind of cleanse the mouth at the end. Moving on from fresh oysters, let's try the oyster omelet, and she fried this in quite a lot of oil. There's only two eggs a bunch of oysters, and then just fried it to golden crispy Thai omelet perfection. (laughing) That was just like melt wrapped up in a crunchy egg fluffiness. You cannot go wrong, that's delicious. Yeah, that would be just I have to, so let me Oh, the meaty part from the center where all the oysters have congregated. They do have some sauce chili ketchup-y type like to go for the nam jim which is the seafood sauce Next we have pla kaphong tod gratiem which is a fried barramundi fish. You can see the garlic on top, I think I'll just go right in. I gotta add on a little bit of the nam jim seafood to this bite. Their nam jim seafood is excellent here. Nice and sour, you can taste the garlic, just a hint of a balance of sweetness. One of the local Chanthaburi which is a fried noodle dish. This one is stir fried with crab. You can see the red sauce on it. There are some chives in there as well. And pieces of crab, and This is to accompany the seafood feast. It's a little bit on the sweet side. But it has, I'm not sure, It has kind of a, a little The noodles themselves They're kind of gummy, You can feel each individual noodle. And then of course, you And this is a, oh yeah, and because it's young Next up we've got pla plaa, and this is a Chanthaburi specialty again. There's fish on the bottom of it, but then on the top it's there's cabbage, I can some shallots, some mint leaves. And it's served with a peanut sauce. And then I think below all that mound of vegetables It has a little bit of And the lemongrass, the fish You've got those really refreshing herbs and then the peanut full on peanut, plus, it's But sweet again, in a like a fruity sweetness. Next up for the tom yum goong, Lots of mushrooms, this as we came to the dock. Let's just start with the broth first. Oh, it's so soothing. It's perfectly sour, it has Yeah, it's really good. (speaking in foreign language) (lighthearted synthesizer) Few more things still to eat. This is just a never seafood buffet, okay it is These are not huge crabs but I'll go for this guy right here, and let's see about the I guess this is a male, cause you can pull off the head like that. Break this guy in half, off the claws, kind of Pull this guy out, kind Okay, I'm not the greatest at this, Ying is always better than I am. But right under here, we Oh yes, there it is, there it is. Gotta go in for a little on this as well. (slurping) Crab, one of the greatest things ever. And with that sauce, it's superb. That crab is not big, but you work for it, and it is so good. And on that note, oh there's But I'm gonna take a little Micah had a nice nap I think this is the final A plate of squid, just slightly boiled. Oh yeah, again, just in all the perfect kind of but not overly chewy. Just a clean taste. That's fantastic squid. (lighthearted synthesizer) Nam sam brong, taking a little break to drink some nam sam brong. - Sab rong - Sam long. - Okay, so nam sam long, that this is a local drink made from some herb or from right here, that Let's try this. I've never heard of it before Oh wow, it's kind of like jelly-ish. It doesn't look like a straight liquid, it's kind of like, kind of jelly-y. Oh wow. Yeah, it is kind jelly-y. It kind has kind of like, jelly slimy feel to it. That's a drink you This is just ultimate right now. This is gorgeous, the scenery, this is indeed once of most memorable seafood Oh, look at that nugget of Oh, this needs to be dipped, and I'm at the very end of that seafood sauce. It was so food, I had But there's still a little for this final nugget. I'm gonna mop that up, kinda let it soak into that piece of crab. (lighthearted synthesizer) Oh, that was absolutely phenomenal. That was an all-you-can-eat seafood feast on a floating bamboo dock. That was, yeah, that was phenomenal. There's nothing better than just laying in a horizontal position Oh, the sea breeze, and hanging out with Uncle Tom. Uncle Tom and his wife are, they're amazing people. They're so friendly, they're so nice. They will take care of you. (speaking in foreign language) - (speaking in foreign language) (motor revving) - Wow, that was gorgeous and while it lasted, from the seafood, to the relaxation, to the location, to Uncle Tom and his wife We're on our way back to the mainland. (water splashing) (speaking in foreign language) - (speaking in foreign language) (baby babbling) (lighthearted synthesizer) - No doubt, it was one seafood meals of my life. First of all, I have to give it up, and I have to say a huge thank you to Uncle Tom and his wife, Lum Tom. Oh man, they hooked it up. They're such nice, they're When you eat there, they make you feel like they're part of your family. On top of that, you just than that, and you don't get floating on a houseboat, in the water. The entire experience was unbelievable, I'll never forget it. So that's it for this video. Huge thank you for watching, please remember give and leave a comment below. And also, if you're click subscribe now, and also so that you get notified that I publish. Huge thank you for watching and I will see you on the next video. What a day!