This episode of Real Engineering is brought that teaches you to think like an engineer. The US military has the strongest and most The US militaries fleet of aircraft carriers largest airforce in the world, second only A single Nimitz- class aircraft carrier like nuclear powered ship, can carry the twice makes it even more shocking that it was sunk during war games in 2005. A single submarine that cost the same as a by an entire carrier task force, with anti-submarine torpedo hits on the USS Ronald Reagan, sinking vast ocean undetected. This was just one of many exercises where too stealthy for the world's strongest navy. The new submarine proved so threatening that an additional year to develop strategies to So what set the Gotland apart from other subs. Submarines' primary instrument to detect Sonar is essentially a finely tuned ear that to create a 3D map of ocean around it. There is active sonar where the submarine and listen for the reflections, but in warfare is detectable by enemies to give your exact ping is emitted and instead you simply listen. These electronic ears are so accurate that based on the operating frequency of the alternating The 60 Hz alternating current of a US sub European subs, if the transformers and other from the hull. The Swedes managed to create a submarine so by passive sonar, so how did they do this The Gotland was the first submarine in the generator. Stirling engines are not a new concept with Stirling in 1816. Inspired by a series of high pressure steam industrial revolution, Stirling wanted to such high pressures. I can't be arsed trying to animate this He did this by creating a closed cylinder sealed within. Here one side of the piston cylinder has a constant pressure on this side of the piston, due to alternating heating cycles. When heat is applied to the outside of the piston to move until the pressure equalizes. Now, if we cool the outside of the cylinder and once again the piston will move. This is our basic pressure cycle to create But, this is an insanely inefficient system, as heat is lost during the cooling cycle, wall, which provides no mechanical work. Robert Stirling solved this by adding a displacer of the cylinder to the other. Allowing this end to be permanently hot, and So the cylinder wall is no longer experiencing The pressure cycle here works slightly differently. First the air in the hot end expands and causes power piston, displacing more air from the work to be done on the power piston. The air on the hot end now has nowhere to it is cooled and contracts causing work to This is our new pressure cycle. The efficiency of this system can be increased battery in the tubes between the hot and cold This conserves a huge amount of heat that cycle, and gives the heat back to the air Robert Stirling dubbed this the regenerator. Now we have the foundations of a useful engine. By incorporating a coolant system and a heating to drive the engine, and the efficiency can of tubes connecting the hot and cold spaces, adding fins to increase the surface area of Did I say simplified? Sorry I meant easier to read. Maybe I like the misery" Stirling engines ultimately fell into obscurity steam engine boilers safer, but have seen being the most famous implementation. The Gotland uses two Stirling engines that which in turn runs it's 75kw generators. These generators can run an electric motor a huge boost in speed when needed. All the while the exhaust is compressed and submerged for up to 2 weeks vastly longer So why is it so silent compared to other submarines, why using an internal combustion engine using to cause some noise. While the the multi-billion dollar nuclear of coolant to their reactors to prevent a by passive sonar within a certain range. On top of this, recently declassified intelligence instruments to detect the faint trail of radiation submarines. Giving the swedish submarine another way of This is a fascinating application of the laws Understanding and applying the laws of science this world. So why not unlock your superpower of understanding on Brilliant. This course take you from learning about the through to the calculations that will allow Brilliant is a problem solving website that You can dive in and start learning about a and working your way up to more complicated To support Real Engineering and learn more and sign up for free. The first 73 people to sign up with this link I get to learn and solve these kind of problems It gives me that warm glowy feeling inside Actively challenging your brain on a daily job well done is great for your mental health. Brilliant even have an app where you can challenge As always thank you to my Patrons and thank If you would like to join the Real Engineering where we discuss everything engineering related The link for that is in the description.