Around the mid 2000's, Nintendo introduced series of all: Mario Baseball. This was a time enjoyable experiences, with unique mechanics and poster child. There are a ton of characters whose hails from these games, like a Pianta, Noki, The two games, Superstar Baseball and Mario special Character skills and, the focus of this the game has others they like or dislike and based the same team. Not only is this a mechanic deeper titles put together, it also provides us with an Mario character relationships. And since the new and rare information about secret friendships We're gonna start with a very brief explanation it helps put things in perspective. So, like I team affects gameplay in major ways. When throwing it normally would, while throwing it at someone a character will bat better if the bases are chemistry does not have an effect on batting of a messed-up play, like dropping a ball, by for every other character on a range from 0 to the best of friends, like Mario and Luigi, while like Mario has with Bowser and Wario, for example. three friends and three rivals, but in Sluggers, There are still some exceptions even in Superstar with a total of nine characters, being Mario, Baby Luigi and, undoubtedly to his own annoyance, is the implication that Bowser couldn't get nowadays they're cool. The many bad relationships son Bowser Jr. though, who, in the original game, thought Peach was his mother and would later makes sense. Sluggers changes his Chemistry around Mario, as well as Noki and Pianta, an obvious are a lot of neat little references hidden in any chemistry with Boo and King Boo, an obvious added to this list in Sluggers, a reference to how chemistry with every Baby character in these games games. For the same reason, Yoshi and the Babies enemy in the series. Shy Guy does get along with fact they both originate from Super Mario Bros 2. also has a Chemistry list packed with references. Noki and Pianta, a reference to Petey terrorizing have a good chemistry with Blooper and Wiggler, Wiggler and Gooper Blooper are fellow bosses from bad relationship with Baby Mario and Luigi, which in which Petey makes an appearance as a boss. common soldiers of the Koopa Troop, so Koopa, well with one another, but interestingly enough, Hammer Bro has a connection to Bowser and higher in rank. What's also noteworthy is that have a problem with Mario or Luigi, their most Toadette and Toadsworth, playing up a bit of a But at least those groups have met one another. In with Goombas and Hammer Bros, despite the fact at least. They do appear simultaneously but I doubt it's a reference to the situation in Noki, a species that has never reappeared since who has an apparent distaste for Dry Bones same game before Mario invited them both to prejudiced... And she isn't the only Kong with requires a bit of an explanation. So Sluggers, features playable Miis, which are available in 12 one Mii, with a color corresponding to their own Luigi Green, etc. Well...every character but Diddy Nintendo's new trend and didn't want to be friends doing so. You could suggest this a reference to but Rare, buuuuuut the same applies to for example all like Miis, so that seems unlikely. And this as Superstar Baseball reveals he has good even really appeared in the same game, but I guess Kong similarly has a strange good relationship, reference to how DK lives in the jungle and Other unexplainable relationships are Wario and and Magikoopa in Superstar Baseball. They also seems kinda harsh, what did she ever do to them? Waluigi only like each other, which is probably us to a possible reason why the iconic duo even some bizarre reason, both characters have only two brother and Birdo. Not Peach or Daisy, not Toad outs behind the scenes of Mario Kart or Party in That said, 'random' is the key word when looking Neat Shy Guy nod and obvious Yoshi chemistry randomly drawn from a hat. Good relationships with the latter especially raising questions of both been bosses in the Mario &amp; Luigi series? Even and Waluigi, as discussed, Princess Peach, which then finally, Tiny Kong. Why... It leaves Tiny Kong King K. Roll and Birdo, which is any idea what's going on here, let me know in the Next, I wanna zoom in on a rather sad situation in have good chemistry, that shouldn't or I guess a sign of unwavering loyalty, is Toad's best buddy is Peach, with Toadette in your relationship like that. And finally, I wanna Kong will have one day considered: what if Bowser my friends... is that it wouldn't work. These two that include the heroes of both series, as well with a Mushroom Kingdom villain isn't completely a good relationship with fellow royal King Boo. Donkey Kong Country cross-over any time soon, And that's about everything I have for you today. your theories for the weirdest relationships here? this video, please consider giving it a like and my future Mario content coming up. For now, thanks