I am a graphic designer. Really, which software do you use? Canva. (screaming) Isn't that just hilarious? The joke here is that if you use Canva you're not a real graphic designer. Wow! Adobe good, Canva bad. Why Canva bad? Because Adobe is the industry standard. Why is Adobe the industry standard? Because Adobe is the industry standard, no further questions. But is Canva really that bad? What about Affinity? What about Microsoft Publisher? Do I really need to spend 80 on a program that crashes when I could just spend that I saw this video by the channel Emeral. Go give it a watch, it's While watching, I realized and graphic design industries They both offer an and even more of an abundance of opinions on which program is the best. So I'm gonna design a poster in every single program I and finally decide which My name is Elliot, and what we are doing is that was the intro, that is what we- so it seemed only fitting to start here. This would be the blueprint, the poster that the following posters would look to replicate. I ended up with a simple with a few small touches to I figured making the exact would not only be boring so I decided that the header text would be the name of the program, and the frame would be a graphic design entirely using whatever features In the case of Photoshop, this was one of my classic a cheeky homage to the first video I uploaded on this channel. I started with some layers and then experimented with the warp tool, noise filter, and blending modes to get a design I was happy with. How am I gonna do this in Canva? Photoshop is great. I didn't learn illustrator for years because of how good Photoshop is. If you spend enough time in it you can pretty much design I'm also really biased towards it and generally a stubborn person. (light music) The world hadn't seen anything like Canva before it was founded, I think. I'm pretty sure it was the first online template based A lot of the programs I'll be designing with later in the video are clearly inspired by Accessible, free, and filled with assets, these programs threw out the intimidation of the blank canvas, and immediately lowered the This is a good thing. I really like Canva, and I think it gets too But it definitely feels less taboo than it did a few years back. I mean, it's free, that's great. I've used Canva a few times in the past so I found it easy to pick up again, with the only main challenge Here we go, aura energy I kind of feel like I'm cheating this. The program obviously has its limitations. It was never intended to offer its users the ability to design and instead offers templates These are some good fonts, So I threw together a layered with different blending modes and got a result that Pretty happy with how it turned out. Been spending most our lives Okay hear me out for a second. If you took two buckets and labeled them Adobe and Canva, you could separate every program I will mention in this video The Adobe bucket will be blank canvas, hard to master, flexible programs. And the Canva bucket will be stock asset abundant, These are two very different buckets and they serve very different purposes. And I think it's important to It feels silly to compare when they offer such different So I'll try and compare Adobe and Canva with other cloud-based It's something to think about or maybe not, I really don't know. I'm just trying to sound smart. Illustrator is a vector under the Adobe creative cloud umbrella. We love this program. This is the graphic What? Unlike Photoshop, a raster-based program, you can scale pretty much to be as big or as small as you That's what vector means. Perfect for logo design that I can't think of, but I've learned to love I don't really need to design with vectors since most of my work gets uploaded online where it is compressed But the program is definitely With the amount of Illustrator I feel like I will never truly understand the power of this software, it is deep. I used the gradient mesh tool for this poster. Not my favorite tool in the world, but it gives you a lot more than doing it all rasterized. You can individually change while maintaining the rest of the image. God that looks really that's a sandstone texture. The rest of the composition CorelDRAW is a vector based design program that is widely considered to be a premier graphic design software. I unfortunately have no I'm so used to Adobe layouts and shortcuts that some of these programs were so much more difficult Like CorelDRAW looks familiar at a glance, but I was lost immediately. I'm starting to think this It's a free trial, I lose I can definitely see the And I might've had more luck trying the Photoshop But yeah it just didn't click for me. The main graphic is a bit of a mess, but I had some fun experimenting with all the different brushes it offers. Microsoft Excel is a- hang on, this isn't a graphic design program- Oh wait, hang on, yep oh yep I forgot, I forgot this was an Elliot video. Oh that's funny. You know those two buckets the Adobe and the Canva one? Well there's a third bucket the silly bucket. I think this'll make for a more Microsoft Excel is a design and other math things. I have friends who use it and other math things. I only just learned how of a column of numbers among other math things. But Excel has quite a few You can fill in and merge and get a general sense of composition. It actually looks like directly into this graph here. So I've gone ahead and added this emoji. And then I can actually rotate that around which is genuinely amazing to me. &quot;Thank you for including &quot;I was very curious.&quot; That's what you say and I say, Pixlr is a cloud-based that has a bunch of I used Pixlr X to make this design which seems to be the Pixlr works just fine. It's definitely got a focus on using existing templates and assets, but has some nice built-in I also appreciate the layers panel, and ability to hide layers, in the cloud-based design program world. The main graphic is nothing too fancy, it's a bunch of stock shapes and patterns layered on top of each other. I don't know, it works. I added a bit of noise and to give it something extra. I've heard this one is a fan favorite, my computer fan that is, because it's not hosted on my computer GIMP is a free and open It's a popular alternative to Adobe, it's been around for ages, and you don't have to Pretty sweet deal, but boy oh boy is it a I sadly did not enjoy working in GIMP. I think if GIMP is all you know you could definitely learn to master it and make some quality stuff. It's just a bit tricky is all, and by tricky I mean And is &quot;R&quot; Rotate? No it's Rectangle Select of course it is. The main graphic is a few built in stamps overlaid with different blending modes. I also made sure to include the GIMP dog, god I love that dog. Inkscape is an open source that absolutely blew me away. I had never heard of Inkscape until I started making this video, and I cannot stop talking about it. It has all the best parts of Illustrator with what feels like a and a little bit of This is a free program, The main graphic was much like the one I did in Illustrator, but the tool feels just so much smoother. It just felt right, I don't know. How about it? Okay. Obviously this was only one use case, so maybe there are some downfalls, maybe it's not that good at logo design, maybe it crashes a lot, and I was just using a seven day trial. But at the moment I could A fantastic program to start seriously it's really good. It feels like the Blender Blender is an open source But did you know it can do Did you know you can even What the fuck? I think that is awesome, and I wanted to make a I really have no idea I used the Blender monkey and then threw a bunch of to make it look as 2D as possible. It actually worked, and I think this is the Figma is a cloud-based design tool with a focus on collaborative design work and is currently in the process of being acquired by Adobe 20 billion dollars. Can you imagine how many iced lattes I could buy with that money? 20 billion dollars worth. Read that again. Figma very much feels like Its collaborative tools are unmatched, and the amount of TikToks and Reels I see of people making absurdly keeps impressing me with the It's currently free, and but in this economy who bloody knows? This poster was super easy to make. Figma has some fantastic gradient tools that made the main graphic a breeze. And I used a noise plug-in to get some noise texture going on. Love all the plug-ins, big fan of Figma. Sketch is both a Mac app for designers and a web app for viewers Unfortunately I'm not a Mac user, and since I am also a I could not design anything. But it looks a lot like Figma I also like how you can and then have it immediately available for anyone with access to Scribus is an open-source The website was down and I was not able to download Scribus. I made a poster in MS Paint. Yeah this was awesome, this Let's export it. - [Computer] Five, four, three, two, one. (upbeat music) Here we go, now we're talking. I spent an hour immersed in KidPix. This was my childhood and I imagine for a lot of But is it a viable graphic design tool? That's what we're gonna answer today. From now on I swear to only use programs with an - [Computer] My bad. - A brush that sends off in unpredictable directions. My heart. And the ability to blue-red glasses 3D that is. This is design thinking. Imagine if Photoshop had that tool. You've got like the worst feedback you've ever heard in your life, and they want you to completely change it. And you just need something and you just go- (beautiful, serene music) That would solve all of my problems. Welcome to what has become the If you asked designers who use Adobe to recommend a cheaper I think most of them How many of them have I don't think very many at all. This was the program I Does it really walk the talk? Is this the Adobe killer? Is it good? Yes, it is, it's excellent. I very much enjoyed using Affinity. If you've used Adobe programs A lot of the keyboard which is very nice. I was using Affinity designer, the Illustrator clone of sorts, and found it very easy to pick up. I made the feature graphic by layering some soft brushes and then played around with its surprisingly deep hue and saturation tool. Overall, huge fan of Affinity. I could see myself making the switch and saving a lot of money. It also just feels like does that make sense? Like I didn't even have to when downloading the free trial. In fact, none of the free have required me to Only Adobe requires that. Isn't that funny? I also imagine the Photoshop Affinity Photo and Publisher, Give Affinity a try. My brain is so Adobe-coded that I feel bad for some like I'm not a real designer. How sad is that? It's $260 Australian for all of Affinity, a one off payment. That's like three months Do you know how many iced lattes- PicMonkey is a cloud-based photo editing and graphic design platform that has nothing to do with monkeys. This realization devastated me. What separates PicMonkey from the other cloud-based competition is that it is under the Shutterstock name. That means that if you have a paid plan you get access to the This is a big deal - I think. Stock imagery you can And having access to the I mean I see the Shutterstock so I can only imagine PicMonkey also has a texture tab with a bunch of, you guessed That's actually kinda cool. And then you can just go in with the blend modes and everything. Wow. I am a huge fan of this feature. Everyone wants to make their graphics a little bit crunchier, and the texture tab gives you that power with just one click. Very innovative. When the computers die I have always been a forward thinker, and nothing brings me more joy than designing on the tabula rasa, paper. I didn't have any loose so I had to tear a page out of a notebook. I used these Posca and that was fun. I can't draw to save myself, so this was a pleasant surprise. Adobe InDesign is a used to create print and digital media materials like posters. I'm a big fan of InDesign, and if used for the right Any time I have to make I use InDesign. It feels very different I think due to the specific but once you get the hang of Also master pages are amazing, and I wish they had them in Illustrator. It doesn't have too many tools So the main graphic was But ended up going with a simple gradient overlay design that looks pretty cool. The rest of the poster I know a few poster designers and you can make some really cool stuff, I just don't think it offers much for me. It is a good program though, QuarkXPress is a desktop for creating and editing in a WYSIWYG environment. WYDIWYG of course is an abbreviation for &quot;what you see is what you get.&quot; Is this like an American thing? I've never heard of WYSIWYG in my life. QuarkXPress is the definition It's pretty much an InDesign alternative. It's built for print and physical media with a very similar toolset. Also you have to request And when requesting, you have to list your company's revenue. I was given access within the hour. I thanked god for this amazing opportunity I'd been blessed with. I could finally access QuarkXPress and start designing in I also received two follow-up a LinkedIn connection, and a phone call, asking me if I needed - [Man On Phone] We're contacting you in regards to the free trial that you- - Their sales team simply goes too hard. And turns out you can't even publish anything you make in the free trial so I can't even show you what I made. I do not understand this software and it is absolutely not targeted at Instagram content creators. I want to put this one Do you know how to, what do you know? - Not much. - Okay. - Is that the font that we want? - We can use that font, - Okay, don't you feel like - Yeah yeah you wanna use that one? - Yeah why not? Very intuitive. - Can you make a square for- Now I'm gonna hold down shift. - Nice. - What's your vision for this one. - Comic book gradient. Andy Warhol. Oh yeah this is exactly what I wanted. - Here we go. (laughing) Ooooo, oooooo! We're just gonna work - Yep - Convert to smart object. Smart object for a smart guy. Gaussian Blur isn't this what you do? - I usually do that. - Then we'll do the- we'll avoid it. Ooooo! I'm happy with this but - What does it need? Yeah there we go. - Oh no. That is incredible. That's great. - That's it? - Hands off. This is the best thing So when I wear headphones, I get a dent in my head. - Oh really? - I get a dent. (Elliot laughs) - Welcome to Microsoft Publisher is a desktop design program that I honestly think hasn't It was also the first fun fact about me. This will be very interesting. You can't do much in this, so let's see. This was a real challenge to use. It feels just like Microsoft Word, like I'm almost certain you could make everything in Publisher in Word. But Word isn't a graphic design program, so I'm gonna pretend The title was made thanks that still hold up to this day. You can never go wrong with word art. I used a bunch of preset to make up most of the main graphic, with the only extra assets being some preset newspaper ad blocks. I think they really tie it This design has given me a headache, I am going to resume designing Photopea is a free to use and boy is it solid. Apart from being pretty it has all the capabilities of a program like Photoshop and it's free. What I'm not used to is the game ads. I didn't realize that had made so many games. Noooo. Ohhhh! I love Photopea and I am I made the feature graphic in the exact same way I did in Photoshop and I love the results. Photopea is a great way to get and it's just a lot of Shout out to Photopea, I love you. Adobe Express is a mobile design tool. That means you use it Has technology gone too far? And what is a mobile phone? I designed a whole post for while seated on the SkyBus Does anyone get that reference? Adobe Express is very deep It feels kinda like a compressed version of both Photoshop and You can' do everything in Express but you can do a lot of things and you can do them Express-ly. Hahaha! I think PowerPoint is the most capable design software in the You can definitely design with it. I also don't think you understand how much I love the 3D stock library. Here we go, it's a lovely scene between this chipmunk and my self portrait that I made in Blender But the eyes, none of the materials, I don't know how to sort out the materials so I had to add on these extra eyes that were on the 3D thing. Looks good. Here are a few Canva-like programs that are all very similar. So I'm going to rush through them. Piktochart is an online platform that I think is mainly based on the maps tab it offers It also has the word &quot;chart&quot; in the name. It is a perfectly fine It also has no layers tab. The main graphic is more stock assets overlaid on top of each other. We do what we can, WDWWC. VistaCreate formerly known as Crello is a web only template that operates under the It's a pretty solid program. I really like how the It's once again stock But I particularly liked No layers panel once again PosterMyWall is another online platform, but this one has the word &quot;poster&quot; in it so I was excited to give it a try because it has the word &quot;poster&quot; in it. Unfortunately it didn't offer me much. I think out of all the online design tools I liked this one the least. It just feels outdated and slow which I think may be objectively true. The main graphic is just terrible and I wanna apologize The QR code just goes to my You can put your phone down. Why make posters for Instagram in programs that aren't Instagram? It makes literally no sense, when Instagram has one of available on the market. I used a poll sticker as the main graphic. Minecraft is an intricate disguised as a video game. Similar to Photoshop and Illustrator, you can make things in Minecraft. It also has an expansive much like Canva and Pixlr in Okay here's my finished poster. (horn plays) Uhhhh- Let's go right ahead and for this list of design programs. Wow Elliot, that was a lot of programs, I hope you don't have (mischievous clarinet sting) Some final thoughts for you. What I learned while filming this video is that there are many that could easily replace the Adobe suite I'm so comfortable with. Will I make the change though? Probably not. It took me four years of Photoshop to start using Illustrator, so unfortunately I'm pretty stubborn when it comes to the But if I quietly started designing I really don't think people would notice. Design with the program and you'll be able to design Now obviously you probably shouldn't be designing a logo for or a raster-based software. Or maybe you're just like me and you turn down every because you're just too If you're sick of paying Adobe rent, give something else a try. I promise you you'll be surprised at how easy some of these And if none of these programs wok for you then just do what I did and get him to do it all for you. You can't lose in that outcome. And I'm also now realizing I never actually crowned the so I guess if we're going by each bucket I would say Inkscape and Affinity are tied for the blank slate bucket, while Canva probably still takes the crown of the Canva bucket. And then the silly bucket winner would probably go to QuarkXPress. Hope this video gave you a on design software. I also hope you had a silly little laugh. And I also hope to see you next time for some more fun Elliot wacky-ness. I'm just so silly and funny. I can't help it while making these videos. And finally, another big Don't forget to give it a try. You get a 30 day money back guarantee. Just go to NordVPN.com/ElliotVPN Oh no, I think I can smell smoke. I think my cake is burning in the oven. Sorry guys, I gotta go, but Have a good one, see ya. So the reason I said the cake was burning is 'cause I was meant to pull out a cake, and on the cake in icing and that would've been the final joke. But I just can't do that now, I don't know why, I just cannot I'm so, I've worked on this So I hope you understand But I really do appreciate you watching, and I hope you enjoyed the video. What video will you watch next on your suggested video list? We don't need to talk about it. All right, I hope you had a good day.