- If the sun exploded, what and would we even see it coming? Let's get technical. (upbeat music) In a galaxy the size of the Milky Way, every 50 to 100 years or so, gravitationally bound within explodes, out shining all the put together for weeks to months. These supernovae are among in the entire universe. We've observed a few of but never one in our cosmic backyard. Though our sun will in that it will expand that it will vaporize and we'll be consumed with fire, our sun just isn't heavy To go supernova, our sun will need 10 to 100 times the mass it has now but Dr. Ethan Siegel, astrophysicist and Zangief impersonator on this show had an that I'd like to share with you. What if our relatively What would happen to us? At the end of a massive star's life, the hydrogen and helium it starts to run out and so the star starts to burn less efficient in its fusion processes like Eventually, as elements get heavier and heavier in this process, iron starts to build up in the stars core. And when this happens, These iron core is (mumbles). The fusion of iron doesn't So when this starts to happen, there's a huge loss in thermal that's trying to collapse the star and so about a day after the the core collapses and the towards the iron core at and then rebound off of the that erupts from the surface because the star is so big and produces the equivalent of 30 years worth of an entire galaxies light. If this happened with our sun, we wouldn't see it coming literally. In terms of distance, the sun is a little away from Earth and the including information And so any information where it is, what it's is always eight minutes in the past. If the sun exploded and was gonna bathe us in a galaxies worth of light, until basically the moment it happened, the sun would look normal and then the next (groaning) But now we have to get technical. Would our sun going supernova And what would be the true mechanism of our demise if it did? There are two common sense ways First, do you think that just the photons, the light brighter than whole galaxies would be enough to fry us? It's slow because this is Second, you might think from a supernova, the stars material moving outwards from it, and many percent the speed of light would be enough to just And in both of these either one of these apocalypses the side of the earth facing the sun when the material or the light got there, and then the other side of the Earth would die shortly thereafter. However, neither of these apocalypses would be what gets us first, no, that galactic Grim Reaper If our someone's supernova, what we'd have to worry about most, is something that's harmlessly passing through you right now. As the hydrogen and helium that powers the sun's fusion burns away an immense amount of heat, Neutrinos are a rather bizarre particle that are electrically neutral and so small physicists long thought that they had no mass at all. Neutrinos are famous for and the nuclear weak force, meaning that they hardly To put this weak interaction the common figure that you'll is that on average thanks to about 70 trillion neutrinos are passing through the right now and you feel nothing. Neutrinos are so weakly that something has to be before a neutrino will hit it on average. But how dummy thick you say? No, I'm not gonna apologize for saying it. It's what the kids say Consider a neutrino, not to scale. If this particle is then it's effective collision area is gonna be a function of its diameter. This area for a neutrino, which took physicists a is indescribably small. So you can imagine that of even very, very dense Let's try a textbook example. We are gonna use this equation to estimate how far on average a neutrino can travel through a material before bumping into one of Sigma here will be our for our neutrino, row of the material we're traveling through, we're gonna use the density of lead, one of the densest materials, and U here is just basically so that all these numbers work out. How far will a neutrino travel in lead before interacting with We have all the numbers, so why (mellow music) The answer is 15 quadrillion This is over a light We're talking about a block of metal that a neutrino could that is 1,000 times wider Now that's dummy thick. The fact that matter is basically makes them very difficult to detect. A small detector might not despite the fact that trillions are passing through it at every moment. Scientists get around this and building absolutely mammoth machines. For example, this is the in the world, the IceCube It's located in the South Pole and uses all the pristine ice there as the dense material for the and it uses a lot of ice. To maximize its detection chances, this multi million dollar apparatus places sensors throughout that's nearly a gigaton worth of ice. Now we keep saying that are passing through and so you might be well, if neutrinos and had more energy, we'd Well, guess what happens It wouldn't be the light or the blast wave from a supernova that got us, neutrinos would erase all life on Earth before we even knew it. Remember how a giant star material falls inwards, creates a shockwave and Well, before any of that before the star explodes, an unbelievable number right when the star collapses. In just 10 seconds after a maelstrom of 10 octodecillion and pass through the star Now it's kind of counterintuitive to where we think an explosions energy is, but these neutrinos actually carry 99% of a supernovas potential, A 100 tredecillion joules, I've never even said that word before. And as Dr. Ethan Siegel points out, this kind of energy is like if the size of Jupiter at Jupiter. Note to self, look in (mumbles) Sorry, I was just... When the sun explodes in all these neutrinos are traveling at more or and will hit the Earth And when they get there, they're not gonna just like neutrinos usually do, because three things Recall our numbers for on average, how many neutrinos are of your hand, thanks to the sun and their average impact area. Here is their energy when Now during a supernova, all of these numbers change for the worse. The neutrino flux from the sun would increase by 10 quadrillion times, their average impact area, would increase by a factor would go up by 25 times, have a lot more energy, they are larger, more likely to interact and and you wouldn't need a cubic The volume of your body To finally answer our question, I have come up with a if I do say so myself, which I do, I present to you the novae equation. N is our nucleon density for the material we're traveling through, phi from the source like a supernova, V is the volume in question sigma, remember is our and E is the average energy This equation should be able to tell us how much energy per second is deposited into a human It's really, really specific but come on, what did you expect from before it actually exploded, would be mercilessly subjected to 50,000 watts of neutrino power, 50,000 joules every second. This equates to a lethal dose of radiation for every person in less This neutrino flux would go on to vaporize everything on the planet and basically everything in the solar system, hours from the sun's supernova even and when it got there, it would find an Earth This is a silent apocalypse. So, if the sun exploded in a supernova, it wouldn't be the explosion itself that erased the solar system, it would be the ghostly neutrino. And what's really scary about these ghosts is that there's nowhere to hide from them, no realistic amount of You couldn't even put an and the sun to protect Again, the sun is not but if it did, it would take but with a weekly interacting (upbeat music) I just wanna say thank you on this topic which I read on his &quot;Starts With A Bang&quot; blog on Forbes and it was very informative. A lot of the information so I suggest you go and follow him. He's fascinating and read all this stuff, he's really good at writing. Also, if the sun were to it wouldn't like give There's something called the that we have set up and you can monitor different luminosity, what they're doing, to kinda give you some so it wouldn't come out of nowhere but even if we did detect it early, I mean, there's not a (distinct music)