[ INTRO] All octopuses start out as teeny, tiny plankton, drifting through the ocean at the mercy of Eventually, though, they get big enough to and make a home for themselves on the seafloor... but not the blanket octopus. The four species in the genus Tremoctopus Though they get quite big, they spend their wandering the open ocean. And not even scientists know very much about But what they have found out is amazing! It turns out they have some pretty weird traits that help them survive the high seas-- including those blanket-like appendages they're Most octopuses spend a lot of their lives whether it's in rocky dens, holes in the They only swim around when hunting or defending --and even then, they'd prefer to crawl. Which I guess makes sense, since they have to protect their soft, squishy bodies. The only hard part of an octopus is its beak --the calcified mouthparts it uses to eat And blanket octopuses are also mostly soft. But still, they don't seek protection on They are generally found cruising through around the world. And they can do that because they have all octopus defenses--like the ability to release and change color at a moment's notice-- as well as a couple of extra tricks. There's that namesake blanket, for instance. It refers to the long transparent webs of which connect four of a female's arms. When threatened, she is able to unfurl all and trail it out behind her like a superhero's And in the largest species, she can grow to So when you combine her size with her incredible she looks pretty intimidating! If this doesn't scare off a would-be predator, she may be able to ditch the blanket instead. Lone blankets have been spotted by divers, believe that's because a female can break much like a lizard does its tail when threatened. The idea being that, hopefully, that distracts long enough for her more essential bits to And when the animals are smaller, they have another trick they can use. They're actually immune to the stinging of Portuguese man o' war and their close A young female blanket octopus will swim up rip off its tentacles, and then carry them Then, when a threat comes too close, she can like toxic whips! It's something the unfortunate scientist this behavior discovered firsthand. Now the males steal tentacles to defend themselves, But they don't just wield them when they're they never get big. In fact, they're so tiny that scientists didn't alive until 2002. The males of the largest species only grow 2.5 centimeters long! On average, males are one one-hundredth the and 40 thousand times less massive than their That's the most extreme size difference that we know of among non-microscopic animals. Just imagine if your spouse were the size Scientists think that the males evolved to because all they really need to do is mate. You see, all male octopus have a special appendage called a hectocotylus--what is sometimes as a "sex arm"--that they can fill with In most other species, a male sticks this into a female's mantle cavity during courtship to deposit his sperm packets--a process that But in the open ocean, there's zero privacy, so romance kind of goes out the window. When a male and female blanket octopus meet, he just rips off his sex arm and quickly sneaks The arm crawls on its own up deeper into the --where it might find a few other arms already Eventually, the female will run out of space. So for males, it's not size that matters--it's And growing big takes time, so larger males Once a male has delivered his sex arm, he His work is done. Then, when the female is ready, she picks and squeezes the sperm all over her eggs. If she lived on the bottom like other octopus, lay these eggs in her den so she could care But, since the open ocean lacks adequate housing, a cigar-shaped anchor rod for them out of --the same stuff in shells and coral skeletons. And around 100 thousand eggs can attach to which hangs on one of her arms, keeping them while she continues to move about the ocean. It's thought that she dies shortly after mostly because that's what other female --but researchers don't know for sure. In fact, we have a lot left to learn about including how they find one another in the or whether they sleep. In the meantime, we can appreciate these bizarre and the incredible ways they boldly go where other adult octopuses wouldn't dare. Thank you for watching this episode of SciShow! And a special thank you to our President of Matthew is one of the awesome people that through Patreon. So he helps ensure the team here can keep educational science content. And that, in our completely scientific and makes Matthew pretty rad. If you want to learn more about our wonderful you can head over to Patreon.com/SciShow [ OUTRO]