What happened in Moscow in October of 1993 was, in this case, a civil war. Neither party was ready The strategy was, It turned out to be much worse. &quot;You're the anti-reform forces.&quot; It was the issue of constitutionality that would go on to become It's the devil's work. Yes, yes, no, yes. I lost trust in Rutskoy We're dealing with a typical coup d'etat. It's over for Yeltsin. Jail time. We had to use candles to be able to work once the power was cut. We have to storm the mayor's office We have to interrupt our broadcast. It was very clear that the shelling wasn't coming Why were you calling on pilots What else was there left to do? Huge crowds were milling We went in holding a white flag. Of course, inside was complete chaos. People were hit with rifle butts. What annoyed them the most was me Something good and kind had been That's how it felt. Everything we're dealing with today REDAKTSIYA Hello, friends. Undoubtedly, you all know very well This is one of the executive branch's It is the third most important one, and the President's residency Here, all major economic decisions However, the executive branch under rather tragic circumstances, having literally kicked namely the Federal Assembly, It was built At first, it housed then the Supreme Soviet which Boris Yeltsin was the head of That's why in August of 1991, the memorable events of the coup with Yeltsin climbing on a tank. The tank was placed We're facing a right-wing reactionary Two years after the coup on a fine October day like today, the tanks of the Tamanskaya arrived at the Novoarbatsky Bridge and started shelling It was a result between President Boris Yeltsin which only recently had comprised Those events went down in history or, as some people a small civil war that took place here, on October 3 and 4, 1993. It's been 30 years, but there are still How come that those namely President Yeltsin on the one hand and Ruslan Khasbulatov, as well as Vice President a mere year after the 1991 coup became not just opponents, Why did all attempts and reaching a compromise fail? Who fired the first shot? Who ordered the tanks What rounds did the tanks fire? Some say it was blanks, Whose bullets killed more than 150 people who fell victim to the October events? By the way, Where did the rumors about the death toll Most importantly, that it wasn't the 2011 Castling move, or Putin's rise to power in 2000, but the 1993 shelling towards the situation OCTOBER 4, 1993 The wing I was in was cut off We didn't touch the curtains, a round would be fired immediately, and the curtain Twelve people were lying I told everyone to get down You're not protecting the people's deputies You're protecting With all of this happening, I thought, I hadn't slept all night. It was a blur. I got up from my desk I started undressing I opened the door, it was very dark. Where my desk had just been a minute ago, Smithereens. The shell hit right there. Another shot of the cannon tank I stayed at the Kremlin and kept looking at the images just like everyone else. Reports were coming in about a bunch of onlookers We could see the strikes hitting them. There were a lot of casualties. I saw crowds of people under the bridge I was driving past them, It was astonishing. They were literally standing and shelling the White House. Today, Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin must use everything he has at his disposal to suppress the force used by fascist, gathered under the auspices You know, the talk started about the common unity and something different We were supposed to keep protecting the embodiment of democracy, since the Supreme Soviet This talk started around August 22, 1991. REDAKTSIYA AUGUST 22, 1991 On August 22, 1991, The coup was attempted by officials who opposed They formed the State Committee The fight against the SCSE who had been elected president of the Russian Soviet via national vote in June of 1991. The White House turned At the time the Russian Supreme Soviet, was also based there. The Supreme Soviet Yeltsin and Khasbulatov worked together There are many stories As you know, the coup failed. A few months later, with Boris Yeltsin becoming president Following the American example, a vice president was also elected as an understudy It was Alexander Rutskoy, and pilot who had been taken captive. In short, as they used to say, This new country, however, of state authority from Soviet times, the Congress of People's Deputies. Given that the Congress it was represented by the Supreme Soviet Notably, it wasn't it had a broader mandate. It had been the case ever since 1917. As they said, &quot;All power to the Soviets.&quot; The Soviets were considered The Supreme Soviet held more power compared to the head of state, People's deputies could veto and remove him from the office. The president couldn't dismiss Ruslan Khasbulatov was in charge It really painted a contradictory picture. You had a president, and you also had the system that was rather intricate. It was a chimera Something had to be done about it. The deputies themselves submitted as a reason to fight the Union center and by introducing the title they created a new standpoint for Russia's sovereignty. It turned out that we now had a president whose mandate was defined It was supposed to be. But then, - it might sound harsh, - the president had to elbow his way through which a part of the Deputy Corps -Was the confrontation inevitable? Because Yeltsin was a source of new power. Soviet power met head on that entailed a separation of powers. -So, it was a straight-up fight for power? Of course. There existed two philosophies regarding the reformation of Russia. The second factor was personal between Boris Yeltsin on the one hand What part did Rutskoy play? He had a party something like that. There really were communists who lobbied It was thought to be a safer side. Yeltsin wanted to use Rutskoy as a way to garner voters' support A handsome man with a mustache, It was a safe bet. Yet, back then, Yeltsin's entourage and had a negative attitude ALEXANDER RUTSKOY, When he was persuading me at first, I refused. He said, &quot;Take the time to think.&quot; I told him, &quot;Boris Nikolayevich, I've never worked in politics, I just finished If you are making this proposal, Because in the Constitution, &quot;Fulfilling presidential orders.&quot; That's it for the authority Nothing else is mentioned. I came to him and he said, you will deal Was it up my alley? It was. &quot;You'll deal with implementing Up my alley? Sure was. &quot;You will oversee social benefits It was also up my alley. I said, &quot;Okay,&quot; The election results were announced. Three days later, &quot;A vice president bears for the state I went to talk to him and said, I don't know anything about it. I've never even lived in the countryside. I come from a family of regular officers.&quot; I said, &quot;I don't understand. He said, &quot;Alexander Vladimirovich, you have a great quality: If you don't know something, I said, &quot;That's right.&quot; Yeltsin proposed, and pose a question of what the rural inhabitants For a regular officer, it was nonsense. Of course, there wasn't But Rutskoy did take umbrage at him. Yes, it was very peculiar What was Khasbulatov like? Was he a cunning He was a professor of Political Economy. There was this organization Prior to the elections, &quot;Guys, your district It was propelled as well as other fine and famous people. I think his victory was fair. He came across as very impressive. -So, there wasn't any sense of foreboding? REDAKTSIYA The first serious clashes between the president started because of the economic reforms lobbied for by the Government which had been led by Yegor Gaidar By that time, Shortages, huge lines, and empty shelves. We have a whole documentary on our channel about the reasons behind this. Please watch, The manner in which Gaidar and his team would later be referred to Tomorrow, we're celebrating the New Year, it will most definitely bring We will face one of those I'm talking about price liberalization. Some shops already feature goods like these ones. -Aren't people shocked by it? It's very bad. I don't know what we're going to do. On January 5, 1992, on the first working day of the new year, the day when price liberalization started, I assumed the post of the head of the Living Standards of the Russian Ministry of Labor. So, everything that would later happen was in your area of responsibility. Yes. I held this position for a year, I was on the inside. We've heard How much of a shock It was a shock. Over the first quarter of 1992, the prices increased almost tenfold. The strategy was, Remember the famous words that he said in April of 1992? When things really plunged into crisis, Yeltsin publicly promised, that everything will be fine in a year. Goods will be on the shelves, prices will stay the same. If it doesn't happen, -He did say that. He was sure, that we just had to endure and that people would realize You know, like a quick shot. At first, you feel the burn, Of course, the promise wasn't fulfilled. It turned out to be much worse. Prices soared 26 times higher. What did it mean? It meant a huge unemployment rate. What did unemployment mean? Yeltsin was asked, &quot;Explain what's going on His entourage persuaded him &quot;You're the anti-reform forces.&quot; The members of this team The team worked on the reform program. Then they already and now they have &quot;I believe Gaidar.&quot; I've never been one to do things I said, &quot;Boris Nikolayevich, Gaidar is the head That's the level, right? &quot;Are you really going with the whole country's economy What's going on?&quot; He said, &quot;Alexander Vladimirovich, You don't trust the younger generation.&quot; I told him, &quot;I respect but such issues who not only have but also hands-on experience.&quot; It illustrated the difference that were created in Soviet times. There were seasoned Soviet academicians and social climbers They weren't old-fashioned Everyone understood But there were also young guns like Gaidar, Andrey Nechaev, These cohorts, insisted on a radical and quick approach. Academic society looked down upon them, &quot;Who are these guys?&quot; &quot;The boys in pink pants.&quot; &quot;Some armchair theorists, In many respects, maybe even a generational one. They did win the elections. As for the boys in pink pants, what did they think What experience did they have? As a politician, Khasbulatov had a good of the public sentiment. Many were disgruntled by the shock therapy, and this discontent for Khasbulatov as a politician. At the same time, Why was it rejected by so many? It wasn't rejected immediately. You see, when it was happening in 1992, if we talk about privatization, It became a scare tactic more so that were using it. A property-owning class was formed, which later Boris Nemtsov Seven bankers and so on. But it wasn't what mattered most They would only see it on TV about their carve-ups and such. The people saw the way they were living, That new class of property owners would often emerge in a criminal way, because many were above the law, and the law was riddled You could do anything as you weren't formally breaking the law. There wasn't a law that would dictate Had that led to the betterment no one would have cared But let's circle back You see, in 1992, people's income decreased by 40%, which was very severe, Frankly speaking, it was an unprecedented indicator DECEMBER 9, 1992 Gaidar's tenure as head of government By late 1992, Yeltsin grew tired of covering and felt like the nation's discontent At the Seventh Congress Gaidar was dismissed. Distinguished people's deputies, I submit to you the candidacy for the post of head Do you have any questions? Gaidar was succeeded by Chernomyrdin, who seemed to be Why did it fail to defuse the tension? Well, first of all, Chernomyrdin wasn't really Chernomyrdin was a man of action. He had good relations with both the government On the other hand, because he was an economic person, Gaidar left primarily &quot;It's a deal.&quot; The last agreement Gaidar and Khasbulatov. What was the agreement? A referendum, a constitutional agreement, and an adoption of a new constitution. It was the issue of the constitution that would go on to become Two versions were drafted. One was by the Supreme Soviet, which described the future Russia where the parliament approximately The Congress insisted if it be by two votes and even Being able to dismiss ministers Impeachment is, of course, possible. -Do you really think so? The second version of the Constitution is written by a team led Opponents say, Russia was described even as super-presidential, where the powers than those of the Supreme Soviet. You can't simply dismiss ministers, and the impeachment procedure At first, it is hoped to reconcile At the congress the President and the Supreme Soviet agree But the contradictions and credibility gap In early 1993, Ruslan Khasbulatov The Congressional deputies later How come, you were agitating for us And now you say, He replied, &quot;It's the devil's work.&quot; Khasbulatov would often use that's why he failed to inspire the representatives of the fierce against the behavior of Yeltsin, because he referred to the devil It's a famous meme, isn't it? The point is how the Soviet regime works, since they use the motto, &quot;The Congress is free to take any action!&quot; No matter if it's Congress they enjoy terrific power. So, eventually, Yeltsin decides Here we have that well-known OPUS as televised by President Yeltsin. I've signed a decree on the special order of governing until the crisis of power is overcome. The regime in question implies suspending the decrees are null and void. He basically advocated anti-constitutional views. And at that moment the overall tension I witnessed Vice-President Rutskoy not to take this step. The impeachment attempt had preceded Please bring up for a vote the request concerning the removal of the President Back then, you didn't support -Who? Well, I didn't vote I wasn't authorized to do so. We were in favor of reforms, yet we opposed to the collapse of the long-established foundations The deputies attending the Congress Most were genuine advocates of changes, and many hoped to find a consensus that he would try to take notice of it. But the scale was trembling so badly that I, for example, found it astonishing (which is also a hallmark of the era) that he, the head of the President's said that they had placed tanks with poisonous substances so that if we gained enough votes these toxic gases would be used against us He mentions soporific gas, Even using sleeping gas against MPs because no one was sure Unfortunately, we did lack them. Some sort of regulations regarding the operation However, finally people agreed in April. Indeed, the &quot;For-For-Against-For&quot; one. &quot;For-For-Against-For&quot;. Pretty simple and straightforward. I raised the issue so that the people of Russia would say: if they are &quot;for&quot; my presence, I will work with even greater energy then. If the answer is &quot;against&quot;, I will resign. 25 APRIL 1993, SUNDAY, MOSCOW The referendum, remembered by many (the result of guerrilla marketing, consisted of four questions: &quot;Do you have confidence &quot;Do you support the economic of the President and Government?&quot;, &quot;Should there be early elections and &quot;Should there be early elections for The presidential team assumed was popular confidence, And it was the only way to impact since the Supreme Soviet also Each member was to be elected. all the chips on the table. -For-For-Against-For. For-For-Against-For. For-For-Against-For. For-For-Against-For. Using a propaganda mechanism, the Yeltsin team tried hat the referendum offered to reveal the actual view of the public. But since we knew that is, so the Deputy Corps refused The Constitutional Court of Russia here that since the second two questions and since the first two are subject then the other two questions by a majority of all the country's it should have happened not according which deliberately put that are actually impossible to implement 80% of those who showed up but 30% and 40% voted instead. And so Yeltsin's team accomplished but nothing came out of it, Yeltsin won in all the questions, but lacked the votes for re-election. &quot;Stop squabbling here the voters roughly said. And just a few days later, Khasbulatov and Rutskoy declared that only drunks and drug addicts That's when the ambitions Ruslan Imranovich went on out in the open. It's unseemly for a man I repeatedly said to him, &quot;You better watch your mouth, That's one thing. While preparing for the referendum, my Vice-President turned out to be I no longer trust Rutskoy of all assignments given by the President. And there it goes on the TV, &quot;Rutskoy is corrupt, these are displayed on the screen. When I arrive at the Kremlin, I asked, &quot;What's the matter?&quot; &quot;Boris Nikolayevich ordered The Supreme Soviet and Khasbulatov they provided him with an office, So he moved into this office and that's when he got trapped. They were saying that Boris Nikolayevich &quot;As soon as we change everything, And they meant that he would be but as a person with nominal power, At that moment, Yeltsin's supporters started They tried working with the army, with the Ministry of Internal Affairs The parliamentary deputies, in their turn, tried to strengthen their positions and convince those replacing Yeltsin The Supreme Soviet went on Its Presidium made all these decisions on behalf of all the branches They incentivized the unrest that resulted -Do you mean the May Day demonstrations? That's when a police officer May 1, 1993, Saturday, Moscow On May 1, Soon it was nicknamed The rally was organized by the CPRF like Viktor Anpilov's Labour Russia. He was quite well-known at the time. Support us! Our power is movement. Move up Leninskaya Street. The panoramic view is amazing. The organizers wanted to go That route wasn't approved. Instead, an alternative was proposed: It was just several hundred meters. However, the protesters turned that down. As a result, and started moving along Lenin Avenue. Police tried to block It all led to clashes. More than 200 people were hospitalized. The truck that the protesters as a ram hit and killed He became the first victim Gorbachev let people On the one hand, He was good at taking critique. A lot of other political leaders Like criticism But radicalization... When they say, and then they try to break Law enforcement wasn't ready for that. But containing, accompanying On the one hand, it caused more rage from the police Some of them This allowed that thought they were getting Seeing how they cracked down who were merely celebrating Labor Day, The 9th May demonstration from the Belorussky railway station It was led by the People's Deputies It made a horrible impression They got scared. They got scared, and all summer, In August, Konstantin Lubenchenko I'll remind you He was a well-known person. He was the head when it was located on Trubnaya Street. that the Communists To the Parliamentary Center? Right, on the Trubnaya Street. So yeah, there was nothing left to do. He had to outrun them, and he did. And on September 21, where he said that the Supreme Soviet's power By presidential decree, from today on, the legislative, executive, of the Congress of People's Deputies of the Russian Federation Boris Nikolayevich, looking &quot;I signed a decree on the special course of action in the country Everyone shuddered. Meetings of the Congress Literally less than an hour later... Khasbulatov gave his address on TV. Dear journalists, ladies and gentlemen, we are definitely dealing At 10 PM on the same day, of the Presidium They adopted a decree on the immediate termination as the President So, the Supreme Soviet, a few hours after the decree was published Roughly at the same time, It decided the constitution Hence, it was a ground from office as the President Not so long ago, in 2023, the Chairman of the Constitutional Court for another term, maybe you know about it. Zorkin is one of the most senior of the highest class He is eighty years old. He's been running the Constitutional Court But Zorkin took this position And he, a rising star from Konstantinovka, played a dramatic role in the 1993 events. The whole country was watching him Zorkin was desperately trying to evade and the President and trying But it was obvious then - those political circumstances evading trouble wasn't Zorkin's main goal. He had a thorough understanding as the supreme law That's why in September, Zorkin openly took and in fact supported President of the Russian Federation on the step-by-step constitutional reform dated 21st September 1993, number 1400, and his address to the citizens does not comply with the constitution and can be grounds for terminating President of the Russian Federation Looking ahead, it cost him his position. He will be chairman With past experience in mind, he will be more careful But that's a different story. The Constitutional Court of that period made balanced and objective decisions. Why do I think so? Because some of these decisions supported and some didn't support I wouldn't like to discuss the decisions the Constitutional Court made over That's another question. However, I am deeply convinced that Zorkin earned Yeltsin made his speech I had just come home and was about to celebrate The tables were set. Imagine how I was only thinking I didn't even sit down. I left the house again and headed And I couldn't leave until October 4. Good evening, my friends. We are starting our meeting. The first issue on the table. Microphone number one. I remember the atmosphere People would come up and say, I remember some deputy approached me As in, jail. I didn't understand But the Deputy Corps was oozing I don't know why light tears are falling. Bravo, encore! I see an optimistic future or violent measures can suppress us. The tenth Congress The impeachment procedure was held there The point was to let the deputies vote. And Khrasbulatov said, &quot;It's obvious No one voted against. And then a young deputy, former journalist And he said, &quot;Are you crazy? Yeltsin has been and will be People started screaming. Then his friend came to the microphone. He was a journalist from Dagestan. He said, &quot;I vote against, too.&quot; I was afraid for them. And also, I thought that at that moment, when the Supreme Soviet was winning and the political system everyone had to be aware So, I also came up to the microphone Three people out of the Deputy Corps What was the situation in which some deputies and some said Before the impeachment vote, on benefits for deputies So, those who would leave were offered They were offered all their benefits I don't remember the details, Besides, I know people who... Let's say, there was a person who worked as a driver before becoming a deputy. He left in compliance with Yeltsin's law. And he requested the position I think that's what it was. The thing is that by October 2, Khasbulatov and Rutskoy had lost Over what they called the congress. There was no quorum at all. They were ten deputies short of a quorum. They weren't let in They couldn't get past it. They filed a complaint, In case you don't remember, necessary for the Parliament to vote. If there are fewer of them, all the decisions are automatically The dispute around it went on for years. The President's side said and the decisions they had made The Supreme Soviet replied, &quot;You didn't let the deputies At that moment, after Decree 1400, the White House was cordoned off that became Plus, there was barbed wire. A real blockade started. Then the Congress announced Rutskoy was appointed acting President. I swear in exercising the powers to observe and protect the Constitution and the laws of the Russian Federation. You became acting President. I went to my office at once and wrote... I gave a speech at a dais and said, &quot;Please support me and hold at the same time.&quot; As acting President, I just wanted to go back I wrote it, and I said it I didn't want anyone to think, that I had ousted Yeltsin. I wasn't happy How do I act when the building of the Supreme Soviet is fenced off When the internal troops and the police cordoned off the building. What kind of President was I The military was under the command So was the Ministry of Internal Affairs Who was I? Why didn't law enforcement support you? I'll tell you why. Why did we have these relationships I approached him several times and said, &quot;Ruslan Imranovich, do you know They didn't let me into my workplace Could you tell me what is the goal of this protest? Do you have the support of the military, and the Federal Security Service?&quot; He started telling me, I suggested, &quot;May I take care of it? The military, And we weren't cordoned off at the time. &quot;The Prosecutor's Office... I'll just talk He replied, &quot;Please don't meddle I have made all the arrangements the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Federal Security Service, That's why, please don't mess up As Attorney-General, I am as responsible for the constitutional cases as any People's Deputy, and the judges When Decree 1400 came out, A new ID with Yeltsin's signature came. The previous one was signed So, I had two IDs. One position and two different signatures. As it turned out, they did come in handy. Because if you wanted to get the documents signed by Khasbulatov The guards didn't let in people Thus, I had two IDs on me. I couldn't mix them up into the Supreme Soviet building Anyway, after sending me the new ID, We were speaking, and he said, &quot;I have made this decision.&quot; I said back, but you have confirmed my credentials.&quot; I don't think he liked I reminded him that I had And I said, &quot;The most important thing He replied, &quot;Please, why blood? By that moment, that game of chess one player's move determined There was not much choice. It's clear how the pieces would be moving. It was either the ones or the ones that moved on their own. Because it was clear that people would gather REDAKTSIYA When the President signed that decree, the Supreme Soviet had known They had prepared dried Everything was prepared. So, were they ready They were prepared for that decree. Not exactly for an armed confrontation, Only several days of cordon later, Luzhkov proposed to shut off That was a tragicomical story. Of course, food was a problem the staff, the defenders We are thankful to those Those who later would become They broke through to us with food. But it was limited. For instance, tea with a sandwich We had something else occasionally, But there was a silver lining, We had to use candles ...had proof. I asked our assistants... What do you think about all these measures like shutting off the sewer and power I see them as unnecessary. I don't know, I'm against that. In fact, they were childish, not really thought through. And the idea that if it hadn't been there would have been more I am 100% positive. The thing is that the Congress when they were surrounded they cocooned themselves. The more they irritated each other, the more they were distracted But we should mention that the atmosphere wasn't much better -In the Kremlin? I'll remind you, there was a meeting. I was present. We were discussing what to do next. That included the technical stuff of the barbed wire or not letting in And Grachev said, And Shakhrai said &quot;Do we go out and surrender then Neither side was ready for a compromise. People gathered. There were a lot of radicals among them. The rest got radicalized, too. At least, they were influenced by them. Partly, this crowd, these defenders or whatever, influenced Those who discussed things, They also got radicalized. What kinds of people gathered You walked around it, you talked to them. Who were they? I get why you are asking this question. I should say what Barkashov Barkashov emerged out of the blue. Barkashov was They had chevrons on their uniform. -Yes. Yes. Very peculiar. Then I realized According to him, and all that good stuff, So, do you think it was Obviously. Ladies and gentlemen, while defending swindlers What can you say about General Makashov? Makashov is a general He looked serious in his beret. If he were younger, But if he were much younger. But he is a cool guy. When he cursed, But he cursed big time Kick the functionaries the f*ck out! Makashov... How do I put it? He's a complicated person. That's because his emotion It's hard to have a dialogue Me and Alexander Vladimirovich Rutskoy He said, &quot;Kirsan, let's go look So, we went out. There was some fencing, And on the other side, there were the so-called defenders deputies, members of the Supreme Soviet, Then, drivers, nurses... they stayed And many people stayed there overnight out of solidarity They brought food. -Good afternoon! -Can I get to my workplace? To feed you all. Out of ninety-three regions eighty-two had gathered. Eighty-two regions. We stated that Russia, to the Garden Ring That Russia spread That's why the regions' voices We proposed to terminate and Supreme Soviet's decree. We announced presidential in the Russian Federation in December. To go back, so to say. Patriarch of Moscow and we hoped to get back to square one. Under the auspices that we had to hold I told that to Boris Nikolayevich, &quot;We can't abandon the country.&quot; I replied, We need to make agreements. We can hold and then the presidential, and so on.&quot; Anyway, we agreed and signed the agreement at 4 AM of the Supreme Soviet, on getting back But Yeltsin and Khasbulatov and decided to remove us. I went to Danilov monastery. But unfortunately, Rutskoy saw himself as the president. Khasbulatov saw himself as the rightful Chairman They didn't want They wanted to make agreements So, they wanted Yes, yes. Same with Yeltsin, right? None of them wanted to give up because making concessions Do you get it? There is this radical mentality Unfortunately, And the negotiations held We were present there We came there to speak with the so-called ministers They deemed themselves ministers but no one recognized them. We didn't come to make them surrender. We came to hold a certain conversation, &quot;Give us your weapons, and we will take the arms out Why did we need that? and the President's side said, That's a threat. and cut off the power and water supplies. So, we told them, because they had official security guards And they didn't leave. Only some did. Most of them stayed there. And they had staff weapon. Besides, militants had their own weapons, some of which had been taken So, we wanted to get rid of those weapons. And they agreed. We started collecting the weapons. Achalov was against it. Apparently, Achalov told Rutskoy loudly ordered not to let Weapons didn't come from outside all those days. We had a stockpile of weapons and the House of Soviets These weapons were distributed and to those who had special documents. It caused an outrage on the outside, Did you find out than the security guards Well... In the White House, apart they had many more. About two thousand different guns. What could be done Try to solve the situation, start negotiations a weapon in this political fight. But unfortunately, there was no authority that would say, &quot;Stop! Let's sit down and negotiate.&quot; OCTOBER 3, 1993, SUNDAY, MOSCOW On the morning of October 3, authorized rally on October Square A lot of people came. Tens of thousands. The rally organizers decided to break through On the morning of October 3, several rallies Mobile squads of the police to disperse these people. They were tired and returned to take a break, etc. Suddenly, for no apparent reason, on October Square didn't go They went towards the Crimean bridge. But that was the thing. All the reserves were located Or at their postings. There was a cordon of shielded soldiers But it wasn't like there were enough. No reserves at hand. As a result, they broke through the barrier People broke through OMON's lines OMON fled. I remember those abandoned shields, They also fled over one Cordons were lined up But either the water cannons One breakthrough, The rebels took over cars. That procession met very few obstacles, to get to the Supreme Soviet building. Our people won't allow usurpers And we won! Hurray! They took over cars. They could ram the fences. They broke through to the White House. They attempted and shots were fired from there. Why did they go on You could hear gun fire from there. They targeted the protesters who turned So, when I saw the first wounded people It was October 3 in the afternoon. Then I realized Turned out you could come in What happened? In that chaos, near the building there were two unarmed companies Shots were fired, people got injured. In order to protect his fighters, the commander of the Sofrino brigade... They were surrounded by the crowd. He said on air, &quot;We have taken the people's side. Do not use weapons against people. Roger?&quot; This was Colonel Vasiliev's He saved his soldiers. He managed to do that. He took those two companies out But little did he know that his superior, in the area of the White House He was in the Comecon building. He was taking everything seriously and spoke to his superior &quot;The Sofrino brigade took I decided to leave the building.&quot; And indeed, having waited walking down Kalinin Avenue the police officers broke ran across New Arbat But everyone heard Golubets' words. A full-fledge police escape started. And in those conditions, it was possible to take over the Comecon building Kick the functionaries the f*ck out! We came to the square and entered Rutskoy was speaking from the balcony. People held a bullet-proof vest Khasbulatov was next to him. Rutskoy made his speech Young combat-capable men, Start forming squads. Today we need to storm I said we needed to go on mass media as the law suggested. Deputies have a right to do that. ITA NEWS Good afternoon! an overview of today's events. Unfortunately, it didn't bring Russian and Moscow government addressed Ruslan Khasbulatov to remove all the people and the premises before 4th October. Who did the television support in 1993? I should say that at the moment, I was sure that Yeltsin was leading the new Russia in the right direction. That he was leading it towards moral purification from Bolshevism and that he'd give Russia its power, including religious power, back. That's why I was on his side. As far as my position is concerned, I insisted that Khasbulatov on the Ostankino screen We saw opposition to that opinion. There even was a situation, in which Yeltsin himself demanded not to show Khasbulatov. The former People's Deputies according to the President's decree have nevertheless spent Rutskoy expressed an idea towards Ostankino and demand to be shown on TV. What was the mood like on the square? People were celebrating There was a feeling that the situation and that the insurgence A small sidenote. If you watch our channel a lot, you know how attentive I am to haphazard Russian symbolism And this particular story, too. I can't help reminding you of the names of the streets Over there, there is Barricade Street. Over there, where the tall building is And here is Druzhinnikovskaya Street after the First Russian Revolution And over there, there is 1905 Street, named after the year Right here, on Krasnaya Presnya Street, extremely violent and bloody fights The first attempts to dethrone And among those there were a lot of people a parliament and a constitution. By the way, behind the White House, This is a historical structure. But it is a memorial to those events. And 88 years later, a new insurgence happened A new clash between those and those who were in favor And new blood was about to shed. Then a pause began. There were general political speeches, and then that group that was to head towards Ostankino The White House was celebrating victory. Almost victory. They sent columns to Ostankino. OCTOBER 3, 16:30, SUNDAY, MOSCOW From over there, from the White House, columns of trucks heading over there, to Ostankino, Several minutes later, They were moving from over there In the square area, the police and internal troops However, Most likely, the police where the trucks were going. They were puzzled There are vehicles heading somewhere, The goal now is to shield the facilities What are these targets? And here comes an officer in the crowd, he listens, he notices and walks away. Of course, he can't pull out &quot;It's like this and like that.&quot; As soon as the command of the internal they immediately ordered to get aboard the APCs And then as remembered by witnesses, an absolutely fantastic scene when two armed escorts - the trucks drive parallel to each other. Since the city is in chaos, and it's not neither the special forces seem to understand so everyone just starts waving Like, &quot;The water's fine!&quot; Although it's difficult to say in a civil war Later on, the special forces in an APC and manage to arrive at Ostankino And it won't take long who had just exchanged smiles with the people in the trucks, to receive an order to shoot them to kill, and they will execute this order We're at Ostankino. Here comes Akademik Korolev Street, which the special forces arrived first, First Makashov drives up Nowadays it is multicolored, This is where all the television studios This is the famous the so-called broadcast-television Makashov approaches entrance 17 (one of the main entrances and tries to negotiate. Makashov approached entrance 17 and insisted that I let him inside and let him take the floor they didn't know that all the broadcasting At some point, a man (maybe it was even a savvy employee tells Makashov that they are actually because, in fact, all the info usually but from ASK-3, built specifically This is where &quot;Vremya&quot; and other and both symbolize Makashov and all those with him cross the street and attempt in order to get on the air. At this exact moment, Dear viewers, due to the armed clash in Ostankino, How exactly those arriving (even if they enter the building none of them has any idea. Hardly any of them are familiar but we can't rule anything out, of course. That sounds interesting. the former chairman of Ostankino, would claim even though dozens of pieces If there are speculations I can't speak to that. Was there any pause Well, I can't say that for sure I guess there were when the battle was going on out there. There could have been some breaks, but they were quick The subsequent events Arrived people got tired of waiting and decided to enter At first, they drive up and ram the large storefront windows Then one of those standing next most likely the one they had seized and shoots into the ASK. Some say that Nikolai Sitnikov, was killed. In the criminal case, they made that there was no shot As if there was no shot at all. There was even a question about Sitnikov's cause of death, &quot;Was it the grenade launcher The investigator said, Otherwise, he'd have been ripped.&quot; &quot;Oh, we see,&quot; &quot;there was no grenade launcher.&quot; That's right. Sitnikov... died not because he was hit by a grenade. He was hit by a fragment of the grenade, between his body armor and helmet. This is how substituted questions and some criminal cases go There was a shot fired but it all occurred outside, and we found -Where exactly? -Along the sidewalk? There was no such thing, On behalf of those who came with Makashov, no one shot there. No way. Investigator Proshkin then changed there was a grenade launcher, It hit the wall After firing a grenade launcher, who have taken up positions and this 12-story building, receive the order: &quot;Fire!&quot; The entire Akademik Korolev Street Everyone heard the shooting, and we understood well from the rebels' side We had one automatic rifle and one &quot;titanium&quot; shield, but I don't think it was made of titanium. It was probably just an upgraded shield to withstand small arms fire. When the sounds of passing vehicles came closer, some men in our group ran away, They later came back confused. It was obvious that they were also afraid. Machine gun fire started, of the massacre, the fallen people, and all this space was strewn with the scattered and the crawling, everyone who had been affected Then the crowd was dispersed, So, when the APCs drive and shoot, it becomes clear that barely anyone hiding in the dark So, APCs are chasing people They're not chasing them, it's just that it's weird but they're shooting at people. I got caught in the spotlight of an APC. Well, everybody knows here So I quickly dove out of the beam and the burst fell I decided that I wouldn't go there again, But barely anyone can run and dive that fast. Dozens of people died there, You know, there's a striking thing The Ostankino massacre didn't end The shooting here lasted for many hours. but nevertheless the shots and the last person was killed here about 10 hours after Makashov's troops And like many of the victims of that day, Early in the day on October 4, a tractor driver working, was shot down The only TV channel which continues to air The studio on 5th Yamskogo Polya Street a special in support of Yeltsin I suggest going nowhere Our home is our country, it's more Look, we all gathered here. Give us a wide shot. We were all sat in different groups We got in touch at once Let's just look in each other's eyes, and go to bed peacefully. On the night of the 3rd to the 4th in which you and Alexander Lyubimov residents of Moscow not to go out. Don't go But before that Gaidar Right. We are calling for those who are willing at this difficult moment to congregate near the Mossoviet building. I'm inclined to think I'll call for you and we'll start... when there were already shots fired, It's strange to call for people Yeah, exactly. What can you call it? OCTOBER 4, 1993, MONDAY, MOSCOW Aren't you scared? -Why should I be? Having lived lies for more than 70 years The people who went out turned out to be some sort &quot;superfluous men&quot;. The gendarmerie had already done Those people were there They were quite sincere. They were really willing The problem was that democracy It's understandable and the State Committee But when you have been and after that time you are not able or to persuade the people that your politics are right The government is calling It doesn't seem I'd like to share my personal memories. In October 1993, I was 19 years old. I was working on Pushkin Square, in one of the first music it's called &quot;Radio Maximum&quot;, in the &quot;Moskovskiye Novosti&quot; That building was demolished, but it was right on that spot. &quot;Moskovskiye Novosti&quot; was one As I remember we were broadcasting it seems to me even twice an hour. Obviously, all news concerned As I remember a curfew was imposed, in order to work through the night. So, at night when I came at the &quot;Izvestia&quot; newspaper building I saw an absolutely enchanting picture. The lights were off, considering there's action here all the time. The square was absolutely dark machine guns were firing That was obviously a terrible picture. But when you are only 19, I do remember I was running on adrenaline, I was absolutely fascinated By the way, those people who went out just round the corner near the Mossovet building. They even started to build a barricade. Today Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin everything he's got at his disposal, meaning security forces, in order to crush gathered under the umbrella Would you have repeated The fact is the following part It was just a part of my speech. There was another part, in which I was saying that there is in the Criminal Code. That is what happened in our country, And we must investigate it This part of my speech was cut out. Remember the television. I still remember Liya Akhedzhakova the evening before shelling The people on Krasnaya Presnya should be shot down and whatnot. My friends, wake up, don't sleep! of our poor motherland is decided tonight. Our poor motherland is in danger. Don't sleep! Terrible things are upon us. The communists will come again. Even our praised liberal community to bring an end to this. They didn't perceive the Supreme Soviet who didn't belong to any specific party, who persuaded tens to agree with their view Due to propaganda, into some kind of concentration It wasn't the case at all. There were a lot of competent, the state system What do you think, what action means that the Supreme Court has won? They have impeached the previous President Does it mean they have won? It doesn't look so. They came to Ostankino. Let's suggest They have broken into Ostankino. They broadcast something. At this very moment, absolutely different information from the reserve studio of RTR. What does it lead to? There are fluctuations in military forces. If, to make a forecast through a sequence of some more or less real actions, Why did the milestone fall on October 4? Many forgot that it was on October 4 when the ultimatum when the leaders that if the Congress of People's Deputies if all bodies of power - the Supreme Soviet - don't proceed we'll stop That is what must have happened So, it was clear that everything It was resolved. OCTOBER 4, 1993, MONDAY, MOSCOW Early in the morning on October 4, the storming of the Yeltsin's on Krasnopresnenskaya Enbankment - Who made the decision Who gave the order? Was it Yeltsin? That's an interesting question. I never really thought about it. Well, obviously, the one who communicated It's known that Grachev didn't agree and demanded a written order from Yeltsin. Yes, of course. I do understand him. And Yeltsin gives the written order. I don't remember that. I don't think he... I don't think he was guided But since everything has changed, He asked but he didn't give it to him. But Grachev obeyed the order. Further on, obviously, they found and promised them some exemptions. Everything was carried out I mean, Grachev. He was there, he stood near the tank, he kept the situation under control. OCTOBER 4, 1993, MONDAY, MOSCOW Where were you when the shelling started? I was in my office. My head was buzzing, so I thought I didn't sleep all night, I got up from the desk And once I started I opened the door, there was darkness. The place where I was sitting, there was nothing, only smithereens left! A shell landed there. It had blown up. Imagine the interior of an office That's it. Now it's clear how it's going to end. What was the necessity for this? There are many stories Or were they live shells? The ones I saw seemed to be blanks. Honestly speaking, they went they made some noise, something like that. I didn't see shells with explosives. But still there was a fire. Well, now they say But if those shells penetrated the walls, if people got killed and injured. They didn't shoot themselves, did they? Many argued that the tanks shot But actually, it was determined that the tanks shot live shells as well. So, we can consider it as a fact, Both with blanks and live shells. They shoot the upper floors Yes, there are explosions, there is fire. There are no people at this time, of the building on the ground floors. Thanks God, this fire didn't lead We have no evidence But certainly, it had I beg my war comrades, who can hear me, come to help immediately If pilots can hear me, This gang is holed up in the Kremlin and are managing things from in there. Why did you call for pilots into the air and bomb the Kremlin? How was I supposed to save people? I saw them dying before my eyes. What could I do? Surrender. Surrender to whom? There was no offer to surrender? There was no offer at all. You know, it's unacceptable Doing this you give up on your future. You're a traitor, Even when I was in Afghanistan, I was taken captive Here, you can touch it, I survived because the shrapnel hit flat, My comrade Nikolai Pavlov even said this, &quot;Sergei Nikolaevich, Tell me, if a shell flies over I said, &quot;If a shell blows up, He said, &quot;What if this dust I said, You were laying on the floor as well? Of course, I was, Obviously, there was no unified staff. There was no coordination which came into Moscow. There was no single frequency the actions of those units. That is what led to friendly fire and deaths of dozens security officers Those tanks which shot the upper floors communications on a single frequency. Obviously, it was some chaos, then the chaos of those What's known about those tanks Were they ordinary military personnel? On one hand, they were from the Naro-Fominsk garrison. On the other hand, if we talk as a part of a larger series of events, which took place in Russia, those military men Zhukov and Kryukov Afterwards their names would be in Grozny on November 26, 1994, when the tankmen on forty tanks hired in the garrisons near Moscow, had to overthrow Dzhokhar Dudayev. I'd like to say hi to all my relatives, I'm alive, I'm back with my people, So, the words from the streets of Moscow in 1993 Some more personal memories. On the morning of October 4, in the &quot;Moskovskiye Novosti&quot; at the radio station I was working at. I could hear The windows were shaking. My main memory was which was broadcasting live. By the way, this TV station was There was a lot of talk about it There was a conspiracy theory that the White House so they set up cameras in the right spots. Well, I think they did prepare which might take place. They had their office just across from the White House. I came to Moscow to work How did you manage to broadcast We were originally in the White House. We had a microwave unit We were reporting live. Actually, we would have remained, My cameraman and I were approached who had been in the military, And he pointed the weapon at me and said, And I said, &quot;Oh, you know, We'll have to go up I think he was slightly inebriated. But it was the moment this is a Russian conflict. we're not part of the story, So, we decided in the end that we could cover We had a bureau on Kutuzovsky Prospekt, it overlooks the White House. I think we had cameras and we had cameras on the ground. All of them were connected back I was watching the pictures CNN Of course, there was information about a bunch of bystanders They could be seen. There were a lot of casualties among them. Armored personnel carriers on the campfires Large crowds of bystanders poured and Moscow police couldn't prevent It was in this crowds There were lots of people but it was unclear the Presidential Administration the folks inside the House of Soviets. I think they wanted People were just curious. People always come just to watch. Actually, we saw it happening It's Russia. You know, it's a common occurrence when people go out just like that Nearly a third of all victims were to become a part of those events, As for bystanders, my biggest memory outside of the spot where actually a civil war People discussed what's happening, the offices opened up, the metro and shops were open. The vast majority of people that day didn't care Many people worried, but not to the extent For example, as I remember, down the Minsk highway That morning, I could see that the road might lead I remember I said on the air on Kutuzovsky Prospekt I was thinking about everyday stuff. I didn't have the feeling that I was witnessing a momentous moment Though I suppose we can understand now it might be difficult to grasp OCTOBER 4, 1993, MONDAY, MOSCOW Don't you understand, They won't let us remain alive! I'm begging you, Valera, you're a believer, it's a sin for you! In the morning on October 4, I went on Ilyinka street and I met there just when the tanks started We went to Zorkin's office. What should we do? There's shelling. to Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin, So, we decided to stop the bloodshed I suggested to them to go there and stop this massacre They agreed. But how could we get there? We couldn't get through And then I looked at the curtains. We were in the office the Chairman of the Constitutional Court, There were curtains, I climbed onto the windowsill Ruslan Aushev said, I said, &quot;We are truce envoys, aren't we? And so, of the Chairman I had a Lincoln down there, it was shot up afterwards. And so, we got to the tanks, went round the tanks in the black Lincoln with this white flag on its hood. Once we got there with the white flag And so, we passed several barriers Were you coming from the embankment side? Yeah, from the embankment side, We came up and started to shout to the deputies: Aushev and I came in Obviously, everything was shattered, We got into the office he was sitting apart, He was smoking a pipe. Oleg Rumyantsev was sitting you know, a portable one. We saw what was going on Shooting at live targets. Several people were killed before my eyes. The brigades, literally smelling of blood, He managed to get through to Oleg Lobov, the Secretary of the Security Council. He told him, here they are, Kirsan, Ruslan, Don't shoot, tell them not to shoot.&quot; And Lobov told him, The defenders of the White House If you compare there was an insignificant minority or killed by the shots if there were any at all. The gun barrels of all weapons withdrawn from the White House were examined. It was determined that no victim was murdered No one. The Dzerzhinsky Division where they conducted military exercises. Boris Nikolayevich came there. And one of the commanders, was it the division commander told him that investigators in order to shoot them by those guns or other weapons. And we were strictly forbidden the weapons of the forces When investigators requested who cordoned the Supreme Soviet building, the internal troops turn over their weapons, they refused. They didn't turn Not one sniper rifle was withdrawn, There was talk about snipers. Obviously, I couldn't see any snipers. But I closely examined The vast majority of them were, of the House of Soviets and people Because if you don't have a carbine, you are no defender, you just stand there. What can you do against those I was 13 when my father was killed. I turned 14 the day he was buried. When it became known that the Patriarch was going in front of the Virgin of Vladimir icon to resolve the confrontation about the infamous Decree 1400, He must film that happening. So, he found tickets, On October 3, he was in Moscow OCTOBER 3, 1993, SUNDAY He was with a friend of his, They travelled together The moment the sniper's bullet Basically, my father filmed his own death. He put an exclamation mark on this point to his destiny on the Earth. There were employees who stayed. The canteen was still working, we gathered about 100 people I was extremely overwhelmed; I didn't expect it to be like this I was also beaten up. I was constantly being hit by passers-by People were mixed up: soldiers, Once I got home to my classmate Saeed, he asked me, I took off my shirt and saw from head to toe. -Who exactly beat you up? someone would poke us with a rifle. On top of that, we were on edge. It all looked strange: October 4, the tanks shooting straight OCTOBER 4, 4:21 P.M. What else do we know? Alpha Group went to the assault only after a sniper's bullet He was shot at the moment when the special forces were deployed right That's when they began Sergeyev was indeed killed with a rifle, but from what kind of weapon? Everyone there had Besides rifles, these bullets are the ones St. Petersburg OMON fighters that the from one of the upper floors They were unable to communicate They were shooting at the vehicles They had no clue how to stop it. Hold your fire! The shooting ceased when the officer with a walkie-talkie into the building Lt. Col. Alpha Group speaking. By that time, Sergeyev was already dead. So that's not where the assault began. They either surrender, will take the building by storm As people remember, back in 1991, Alpha was extremely However, they still carried out the order, but they weren't trying as they fully realized the complexity When sweeping the building, with the heads of the parliament, with the insurgents And then as they cracked open they were trying to look reserved. I was at Khasbulatov's and Rutskoy's an Alpha officer, &quot;We are ready to arrange the extraction so that you all drive home, But you have to get out, So the decision was made. Rutskoy insisted that those audio and video recordings, confirming that there were no active violent actions should go and hide in the Indian embassy. Khasbulatov was just sitting there Everyone was calm, he is a man of impulse, he just kept silent. Then we all agreed to leave. As a Russian citizen, I assure you, How do you feel about the actions How do I feel about it? Because... both Alpha and Vympel like those idiots in Ostankino. They went above and beyond They got in touch, they came to me, &quot;No problem, guys, come on in.&quot; Hello, come on in, please. This is where the shot came from. we've got the wounded out of here. And then I turned in my honorary pistol. -Turned it in to the Alpha? -How did they interact with you? -In a respectful way? Here came the Alpha officers, they began to arrange the extraction and asked the leadership represented who were on the executive committee, And all the others just left. At that moment, the person who was guarding turned to him and said, I don't approve this situation, because now only the leaders and bear in mind Voronin turns to me saying, I say, &quot;We go out together with everyone. So, taking advantage of the fact we turned around and went out And we did the right thing, because everyone was later taken to Lefortovo, What do you think about the events It was the agony of Russian democracy Former Soviet officers see that these We have no weapons, Yes, they put me up against the wall. They beat me, hammered with rifles. And what pissed them off was They said, &quot;How dare you smile?&quot; I didn't think about my whole life. But that's what calmed me down, I realized that I already had three sons, That's the thing. Who exactly beat you up? The officers who were ordered Looks like their superior of who is right and who is wrong. He ordered that I be added Later I was taken to 38 Petrovka Street Cell No. 20. Why do you compare the actions to the death squads in Latin America? I immediately brought it up to my who then portrayed it all in his little documentary episode Some military man grabbed me, kicked me several times in the groin, tore my jacket, spat in my face twice. I saw something in the darkness about five meters away. -It was dark, right? -Right here? Where the steel beam is, I think. As soon as he hit me, he yelled to me, &quot;Come here, bitch, you're a dead meat.&quot; And then he shot in the air. Perhaps the leaders of the Supreme Soviet they weren't beaten up in the backstreets. They'd been transported by bus protected by the Alpha Group. OCTOBER 4, 6:45 P.M. The official death toll stands at 158. That is false. Why do you think so? I'm not the only one who thinks so, Well, I find it difficult to name who said such a thing. But more than 10 people saw corpses being loaded onto barges The whole area was blockaded no one was allowed in at all. They were emptying everything I met a man who was involved onto one of those barges. And what did he say? He said that they were following orders, and those barges left Moscow. You didn't see it with your own eyes. No. That's why I don't believe but no one will ever be able What are the doubts about the accuracy A couple of witness statements that the corpses were allegedly loaded onto a barge and taken away somewhere. But when trying to look into this story, at night from some obscure angle, There was also evidence of body disposal The crematoriums worked non-stop This allegation was investigated who went around to these crematoriums and found no relevant records regarding the alleged disposal There were a lot of wounded, and I could say that a lot of the wounded and here's why. Many of the wounded tried to go home and get some kind of treatment there, because they were afraid for involvement in the hostilities. As for those who weren't from Moscow, it was very easy to tie up loose ends. You mentioned the figure 153, some people say but it was far more than a thousand. There is no room in this story for some cover-up of bodies. Besides, if after 30 years about any people After all, if a person went to Moscow the Soviets and so on, probably someone else knew about it, In this environment, But no information So, the total number of dead, is more than 170 people. But not 1,500. And what happened There is a myth so they were dissolved somehow. There is also a myth about mass shootings. So, among those young people when trying to leave the White House, there were several Barkashovites. Most of them left in a timely But probably people and consider themselves tend to act more sensibly, which also means stepping aside But nothing special happened When Rutskoy was arrested, he was about to take his own life. And in an extremely emotional way, I literally persuaded him not to do it. So he was alive and well, served his time in Lefortovo I was taken to a KGB interrogation site -In Lefortovo? We were brought there Khasbulatov went in first, shakily, Rutskoy followed him quite energetically. How did you spend You know, there is a very good library What did you read? I read Gustave Le Bon, Ilyin, Voskresensky, I read a lot. The thing is that in Soviet times, this kind of literature was restricted. Then they brought What was he like? He was a picture-perfect officer. He reported that this coup d'etat He did speak at the interrogations, but he didn't say anything specific on the record, although we got along quite well, and I often visited him. Why didn't he say anything? He said that they weren't guilty They weren't guilty. FEBRUARY 26, 1994 The inmates spent In February 1994, as well as the members of the SCSE The case of the 1993 events and was finally closed in September 1995. Why do you think Yeltsin pardoned you? It was not he who pardoned me, This was the Duma's decision, Do you think he was moved by compassion or an admission of guilt? No. It was his cowardice A trial. And even the materials were sufficient to accuse Yeltsin The amnesty was not related to events, it was related to specific people. More people could be found They should have been charged too, The people who died in these events were shot by someone, right? Someone shot them. But neither amnesty, But the investigation did not determine That's right, That's what I'm talking about. So it seems to you that the investigation Yes, yes. The criminal investigation which was conducted was closed in 1995 without determining The second case, which is less well-known, and which is probably still classified, was conducted I doubt that the materials of this case will be declassified any time soon. Even the Prosecutor General's have been classified for 30 years, and it's only in 2023 When leaving the burning White House, we didn't urge people to take up arms but to go to the polls, though illegal, and respond to the coup with their votes. That was our position. A month and a half elections to the first State Duma People who became deputies not only under Yeltsin, including Ella Pamfilova, and Grigory Yavlinsky. When the new parliament was created, we formed a faction, we participated in the elections and won. On the very first day we submitted a draft on the creation to conduct a parliamentary investigation. And to avoid this investigation, the presidential administration made a deal with the communists, Not to mention that wanted to implement it all. Their idea was as follows: there will be no investigation We were not allowed to vote. And our votes went as protest votes partly to the Democratic Party. How many times were you re-elected I was a deputy of the first, Three times. So the Yeltsin regime What do you mean by the Yeltsin regime? For example, Yeltsin demoted due to the fact But then the elections And the people voted for me to make That's why I went to the elections, to say, &quot;Yes, I took a stance I was defending the House of Soviets.&quot; And as for Boris Nikolaevich, You even had some feeling of disgust, as if they had taken something and smeared it with shit, trampled on it. That's how we felt. Maybe it was also my age, as there were many deputies there, in their sixties, all kinds of directors with plenty of life experience. And I was 30 years old then, and then bang, this happened. I just didn't understand why. The events that took place meet all the criteria as a non-international armed conflict, Yes, this wasn't Yes, someone will sneer at the fact But probably, these people never dealt with the dead and wounded themselves. And, probably, these people believe so there should be numbers Our approach is different. We don't count people A large number of internal troops from the other side were given heroic titles and other awards. What is that about? Does it surprise you? It does surprise me. I think it's very easy to explain. The winner awards those Is it legal? Well, formally speaking, It seems to me There is definitely an ethical issue here. Take this young soldier who died in Ostankino. I feel sorry for him. But did he really do anything heroic? If this crisis in the autumn of 1993 had been resolved instead of Decree-1400 they could have somehow maybe they would have changed They could have held Yes, elections and so on. But neither side was ready for that. Because there were certain ambitions and there was personal hatred involved, and it had already filled them Do you think there was a chance to avoid bloodshed in 1993, Probably there was. Especially when the head was helping to do it. But they didn't let it happen. Who? The president. That's for sure. History will judge who was right. I can't explain it in legal terms. But the head of state In our country the head of state, is considered a kind of sacred leader. So if he dared to open Pandora's box, everyone else thought, well, if he can, I believe the responsibility lies And to put it very briefly, Boris Nikolaevich's team was then representing my interests He was simply representing He was just fighting It just so happened that is, they were on my side, Therefore, metaphorically speaking, these tanks went there to defend me. And no tanks could reach me from the side of the Supreme Soviet. That's what the lack of will, determination, and rigidity lead to. I have repeatedly told the deputies, &quot;Take a stance already, Look what's happening to the country.&quot; If they had impeached him, There wouldn't have been this bloodshed. But it all happened and contemptible behavior. What do you mean? Hypocrisy. Two-facedness, serving both sides. It wouldn't have happened. It just wouldn't. But they were pushing for it. Who? The Washington committee. Read up what Clinton said -What? He supported Yeltsin and his decision. Could Yeltsin have dared to do this if he had not had and the heads of other major states? Not for the life of him. He was too much Well, you know, I think Yeltsin regime Because the thing is that when they and were storming the White House, both sides were to blame. But patience and negotiation would have enabled them and to listen to what the members instead of painting them as enemies Now, after 30 years, who do you hold Makashov and Barkashov. At first, they broke off this agreement, then they said, &quot;Take up arms, And from there it went downhill. So you think that Yeltsin Definitely. Definitely. Doesn't it seem like a very bad symbol that the president's tanks in the center of the capital? Again, there was no parliament. There was an organ of Soviet power. Parliament always comes part and parcel But it hadn't happened yet. It could have happened if they had peacefully But they took up weapons. That is, in fact, Yeltsin Of course. He was burying And he did bury it. If he hadn't, what would have happened? We wouldn't be talking What do you mean? There were lists of those to be shot. I don't know if I was on those lists. Maybe I wasn't even there. But it's just very contagious, and when you start shooting you want to do it more and more. No. We all realized that we needed We had to fix in regard to property as well. Besides, we couldn't return of the Marxism-Leninism ideology. So it's a lie that the Congress to drag the country back to socialism. No. We wanted to lead people forward to a fair society and honest government. A parliamentary republic. That's what we would have had, since neither Rutskoy nor Khasbulatov neither from ordinary participants nor from the readers like &quot;Zavtra&quot; or &quot;Soviet Russia.&quot; And of course, the Supreme Soviet So we would have got and in the next electoral cycle, some radical section But we got the vertical. And what happened after Yeltsin is just a logical development DECEMBER 12, 1993 Let's talk about the Constitution Who adopted it? They didn't call It was put to the popular vote, not to a referendum, because there were different I think 58% voted for it. If there had been a referendum, Because it was considered better to have the Constitution adopted this way We could disagree but Shakhray and Yeltsin that this was for a limited period of time and when everything settled down, the form of government and excessive authority Did it happen? It happened only in 2020, and what happened that is, the authority [of the President] Do you mean An amendment to the Constitution. It immensely strengthened giving him authority for all branches of government. From the moment due to the circumstances there was a very deep towards the Constitution. Why am I talking about this? Because in my opinion, constitutionalism but a method of reasonable organization For the state, society, the people, our diverse territory, our regions. And when there are no conditions the very idea of constitutionalism It was all crumbling down. You remember that it wasn't necessary because it was politically Sheer nonsense. There is the Constitution, and they... And then it was all crumbling So what we have today is just the echo of shots The current situation is born out of the system created in the 90s. And Vladimir Vladimirovich Parliament is the place where people In our parliament, they have not learned probably because the previous parliament the Constituent Assembly, And we had several generations of people they didn't have the skill to delegate some rights to negotiators. And we get new wars. Well, friends, as usual, you draw all the conclusions To be honest, filming this episode made my heart feel heavy. I must admit that my views if not completely, In 1993, I was a very young man, Journalism then was flourishing There was real freedom of speech. And I linked my whole future with Yeltsin. I was totally on his side then. Now, having learned a lot more and considering the life experience I think that my opinion at that time It seems to me now that it was President Boris Yeltsin that happened in Moscow in those days, simply because Yeltsin Yes, there were enough people who wouldn't mind taking up arms, and in case of victory, But not all the people were like that. If we talk about the real mass shooting which took place both at Ostankino it all came from the presidential side. And, to be honest, to me personally it doesn't look like Yeltsin was cornered like he was left with no other choice It looks like both sides were escalating and neither of them wanted to negotiate. But the greater responsibility and then the stronger side was Yeltsin. And what seems when Yegor Gaidar was urging where the shooting was already going on, to protect one of the parties It seems to me now that this is at the very least. And another thing. For a long time it seemed to me everything would have gone But, honestly, looking where we've ended up now, I am honestly not sure that if history had taken we would be at the same point now. This is Redaktsiya. Leave your comments and likes below. See you soon. THE FIRST PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA, RESIGNED ON DECEMBER 31, 1999 AND ANNOUNCED VLADIMIR PUTIN RUSLAN KHASBULATOV WAS THE HEAD AT PLEKHANOV RUSSIAN UNIVERSITY FROM 1994 UNTIL HE PASSED AWAY THE FIRST AND LAST VICE PRESIDENT WAS THE GOVERNOR OF KURSK OBLAST HE IS NOW RETIRED. ALEXANDER BARKASHOV IN THE RUSSIAN TRUE HE LEADS A RECLUSIVE LIFE. ALBERT MAKASHOV IS NOW 85 YEARS OLD. HE DOES NOT TALK TO THE PRESS. VALERY ZORKIN HAS BECOME FOR THE SEVENTH TIME THIS YEAR. HE HAS NOT RESPONDED