Translator: Phuong Cao I work as a co-director at a substance abuse and co-occurring And not a day goes by In 1999, I was paroled from prison for the ... second time. Apparently, once wasn't enough for me. Yeah, it's pretty scary. That's me. All told, I'd spent on probation or on parole For ten years, I woke up and went to bed I spent most of my time trying to escape the helpless, hopeless On the worst day, I remember selling an 8,000-dollar car that I loved - to my crack dealer That memory is so painful that, actually, this is the first time I came as close to giving up on life but something extraordinary happened About two months into my sentence, I got a letter from my ex-wife telling me that my mother, the person I profess more than anyone in the world, had had a heart attack and was likely going to die. This wasn't my biological mother, who had abandoned me but the real mother who had raised me I was forced to look at what kind of person I had become, and the person I had become Because I had become the son who would not be there laying all alone when she needed him the most, because of my selfish need by getting high. In a moment of brutal honesty, I had to admit I had been living a lie. I was not the loving son, or the supportive father, that I had been telling everyone It was then that I decided that I needed to try to change my life into something that I and my mother, wherever she might be, could be proud of. And a tiny seed of change So after my release from prison, I decided I would go back to school, because I figured what better place can a middle-aged, (Laughter) to blend in (Laughter) than a white-bred community college with a whole bunch (Laughter) But I was fortunate because at the local I ran into two instructors It was my interactions that helped me to regain the self-worth that my drug use and drug-related I'll never forget the moment that I realized that I understood that I could create my own miracle. It all started when I went up to one fishing for some special praise because that had become She listened to me, described and with no pomp and circumstance, she looked at me and said, ''Isn't it amazing, B.J., what a person can do And then, as if nothing special she turned back to her desk While I walked away from that office hour, dazed and confused, I was also a little pissed But I was forced to think about and what did it mean. And importantly, that seed of change started to stir. A couple months later, while taking a test, Professor Miller walked by my desk and dropped off was to the masters of counseling program So after the test, ran into his office and held up the application ''What's this?'' And without hesitation, he responded, ''I am quite confident so I'm sure you can (Laughter) So I brilliantly followed that up I said, ''So do you think I can do this?'' And with patience but no special fanfare, he looked at me and said, ''Of course.'' ''Of course.'' And then, he too turned back signaling that we were done. (Laughter) And again, I stumbled away But this time, the seeds of believing in myself that had been planted took root and started to grow. In a moment, I realized that the only person left that needed to believe in me, was me. As my tears started to well up in my eyes, for the first time I felt free. After three years, I finally felt free of the mental caused by the shame and the pain and the despair of my years of drug use. For years, I had been - we had been told, ''Once an addict, always an addict.'' ''Once a criminal, always a criminal.'' ''Once a loser, always a loser.'' But I realized that was only true I have learned the hard way It contributes to people and emptiness over fulfillment and imprisonment over freedom - and unnecessarily so. In 2006, only seven years after I walked off I walked across a stage, and I was conferred my doctorate (Applause) And sitting in the middle of the third row was a woman, who had spent countless, sleepless nights That woman was my then 85-year-old mother, who did not die while I was in prison, (Applause) but lived to see me become the man Prior to 1999, this was my life. without hope or purpose. Today, this is my life. Now, I want to say here when I hear people attribute or rehabilitation to a miracle, as if their hard work and perseverance I needed to say that because it was regaining that gave me the power And it's what allows me to now provide hope to others Because I'm living proof, I'm living proof that a person's past Now, you don't have to go to prison (Laughter) to learn the lessons I have. In fact, I really wouldn't recommend it. (Laughter) But know this. We do have a choice whether we want to have our past define us or refine us. And as I tell the thousands of individuals struggling with addictions that come through our clinic: You don't have to wait for a miracle. You can create your own. Thank you. (Applause)