Transcriber: Mary Kay There's an ancient and well-known &quot;If a tree falls in the forest does it still make a sound?&quot; A scientific view is that, to make a sound, My question is, if a person speaks and offers and no one listens, I believe that listening is It is absolutely necessary We live in an age we call Certainly, with cell phones, there is a lot of talking going on. But how much listening can there really be with so much interruption and distraction? My passion for the last 30 years in very tough negotiations. From family feuds to boardroom battles, I hear a lot of talking, but I don't hear We think of negotiation In fact, it's really about listening. If you study the behavior you find that they listen After all, we're given two ears We should listen at least Why listen? Why is it so important? Some years ago, I was in the country between the government at a time of intense conflict, My colleague, Francisco Diaz and I with the President, Hugo Chavez, Finally, at midnight, we were ushered in who had his entire cabinet He asked me: &quot;So, Ury, what do you think I said: &quot;Mr. President, I've been talking I think you're making some progress.&quot; &quot;Progress? What do you mean &quot;You're blind. You're not seeing all the dirty tricks He leaned in very close to my face What was I going to do? Part of me felt like But what good would it do for me to get into an argument (Laughter) How would that advance peace? I gave him my full attention. President Chavez was famous After 30 minutes of me I saw his shoulders slowly sag. He said to me in a very weary tone That's the sound of a human I said: &quot;Mr. President, The country needs a break. Last year, all the festivities Why not propose a truce this time so that people can enjoy After that, maybe everybody He said: &quot;That's a great idea. I'm going His mood has completely shifted. How? Through the simple Because I listened to him, There are at least three important reasons why it's important to listen The first is that it helps us Negotiation, after all, You're trying to change How can you possibly change if you don't know where their mind is? Listening is key. The second reason is just as important. It helps us connect with It helps us build rapport. After all, everybody wants to be heard. The third reason is, it makes it more likely that the other It helps get to &quot;yes.&quot; In short, listening may be we can make in a negotiation. It costs us nothing, Listening may be the golden key How do we listen? It turns out that we often as something easy and natural. But in fact, at least in my experience, that needs to be learned In ordinary listening, We're often thinking, &quot;Where do I agree? What am I going to say in response?&quot; In genuine listening, however, We put ourselves in their shoes. We listen from within their frame That's not easy. In genuine listening, we listen but for what's not being said. We listen not just to the words, We listen for the underlying We listen for what that person Let me give you an example. About a year and a half ago, I was by the name of Abilio Diniz. He was trapped in a titanic legal dispute with his French business partner over The Financial Times called it perhaps the biggest cross-continental boardroom It had gone on for two and a half years. It was immensely costly and stressful, not only to both parties and the 150,000 employees When I sat down with Abilio After that, I had a question. I said: &quot;Abilio, help me understand here. He said: &quot;Well, I want I want the company headquarters. I want the elimination He gave me a list. As I listened, I heard I asked him: &quot;Abilio, you're a man What are these things What do you most want in your life?&quot; He paused for a moment Finally, he said: &quot;Freedom. I want to be free to pursue I want to be free to spend time I was hearing the human being not just the champion businessman. Once we were clear about his deepest need, then the negotiation itself, In four short days, my colleagues and I, by listening to the other side, were able to take this titanic dispute and resolve it with a settlement As Abilio being a friend &quot;I got everything I wanted. How did that happen? If listening is so useful, To tell you the truth, it's not so easy. If I reflect on my own experience there are times when I feel like only to go home and find out It's humbling. I can tell you. The real problem in the way, is that there is so much There is so much noise and distraction that we don't have the mental to be able to truly listen How do we clear our minds? It may seem odd, but the secret is, if we want to listen to the other side, we have to learn When I was sitting there what really helped me I had taken a few moments of quiet to pay attention to I listened to myself to quiet my mind. When he began shouting, I was ready. I could notice that my cheeks and my jaw was a little clenched. I felt some fear and anxiety. By paying attention I was able to let them go, so that I could truly listen What if, before an important, we took a moment of silence just I believe that if we did that, we would find it a lot easier The final question is, what difference would I believe it would make a huge difference. In the course of my mediation work, I personally witnessed the broken relationships, families, the ruinous law suits, What always strikes me is is to prevent these conflicts How do we do that? It's not easy, but it almost always Listening. This is my dream. A listening revolution that can turn this Age of Communication In other words, an age Imagine for a moment a world in which every child learns What if we taught listening in school, like we teach reading, as a core skill? After all, listening Imagine a world in which parents What better way after all, is there for us than for us to listen to them? What better way for us to show What better way is there to show our love? As an extra bonus, maybe we'd see happier marriages as couples learned Imagine a world in which leaders What if we chose leaders based What if listening became and not just the exception? What if on radio and TV we had not just talk shows, (Laughter) What if we had not just I firmly believe that we'd get We might not eliminate all conflict, but we would avert Everybody would be much better off. I, very happily, might be out of a job. That's my dream. While it may seem audacious, Listening can be a chain reaction in which each person feels naturally inspired Listening can be contagious. I invite you to start this chain reaction today, In your next conversation client, partner, or child, give them your full attention. Listen to the human being One of the biggest gifts we can give With the simple power of listening now, we can transform our relationships, our families, and our world Thank you for listening. (Applause)