My name is Jim McDonald. That is my name. I am Irish. Any Irish in? (audience cheers) I didn't realize how Irish I was until I took one of those DNA ancestry tests. It came back 96.4% Irish, 3.6% blood alcohol. (audience laughing) That is a hundred percent Irish. (audience laughing) I like alcohol, but I don't party anymore. That's a young person's word, right? Party? You could party in your twenties and thirties and that's acceptable, but you can't be middle aged like me and say, you're a partier. You're not a partier, you my friend have a drinking problem. (audience laughing) Some people spice up the word. They pronounce it, &quot;partay.&quot; Ever heard that? They come up to you after the show and they go, &quot;Jim, would you &quot;like to come out with us &quot;and partay?&quot; If you say that, you have to stop, 'cause when you pronounce it &quot;partay,&quot; you sound like you've had a head injuray (audience laughing) and you need speech therapay. (audience laughing) I try to act my age, I'm middle aged. I don't want to be young, but I don't try and act young like my uncle who tries to use hip lingo. He's 64 years old. I wear Doc Marten shoes. He goes, &quot;Hey, Jim, &quot;you're rocking the Doc Martens. &quot;Are you rocking the Docs&quot;? No, I have bunions and these are orthopedic. (audience laughing) At least this job has kept me in shape. I haven't gained weight my entire career and you can too just follow my plan. Part one, eat less than a thousand calories a day. Impossible? Not if you do what I do. Part two earn less than $9,000 a year. (audience laughing) I may be skinny, but I'm also hungry. (audience laughing) Last time I did my taxes, I thought I've been doing this since college and it barely made expenses. That's when I realized I am more than just a comedian. I am a non-profit organization. (audience laughing) We never had money growing up. I remember asking my parents if we were poor and they told me, &quot;You'll always be rich. &quot;as long as everyone &quot;in your family loves each other, (audience laughing) &quot;so we're middle class.&quot; (audience laughing) Money isn't everything. My mom always told me, &quot;Appreciate the things in life &quot;that can't be bought, &quot;like sunsets or starry nights &quot;or fresh fallen snow. &quot;That way it won't be &quot;such an adjustment &quot;if you have to live outdoors.&quot; (audience laughing) I can't afford to eat correctly. I was in London last summer, I got food poisoning. I lost six kilograms. See a lot of Americans don't understand that 'cause it's metric but I did the math, and six kilograms is over $80,000 in cocaine. (audience laughing) That joke works better in Miami. (audience laughing) I was in London for a wedding, which I've never done and the longer I've been single the more my family's opinion has changed. At first they thought, well, he's probably just being really choosy. Then after 10 years, that became do you think he might be gay? But not anymore. Now there are certain I'm gay and way too choosy. (audience laughing) One girlfriend accused me of fear of commitment, but that is not true. I've been with the same cell phone company eight straight years. (audience laughing) I commit just like my parents and I'm going to stay with that cell phone company just like my parents, because I'm on their plan (audience laughing) and she really wanted to get married. Once a month she'd have this nightmare where she was dressed in a wedding gown. She'd run up the steps to a church and she couldn't get inside. You know, what's weird? I have that exact same nightmare, but in mine, I'm inside the church, holding the door, (audience laughing) but she cheated. That's why I found out. You can tell a lot about someone by how they react if you ask to borrow their smartphone. If they refuse or get defensive, that's a bad sign, but if they hand it over and give you the password you can be pretty sure they have another phone. (audience laughing) I always date women that are my age because I have a really old car. If I had a brand new car, people could see a girl in her twenties get in and think, well, that guy has just got money. If they see her get in my '78 Toyota Corolla, that's an Amber Alert. (audience laughing) People ask why I've never been married. I always used to say, well, I travel for a living but that is no excuse. Professional athletes travel and they have wives and children everywhere they go. (audience laughing) I don't have any children, but I do sponsor a girl in India for a dollar a day. The first month she sent me a picture of her family's house, so I sent her a picture of my studio apartment and that's when she started sending me money (audience laughing) and I always call it a studio apartment. That way, if I invite a woman back to my studio, it sounds like I'm an artist, so we get there and I have to explain, look, I'm kind of a starving artist so we can watch Netflix but I'm going to need your password (audience laughing) and a television, we're going to need a television, (audience laughing) but there are advantages to a studio apartment. If I had a one bedroom, I'd have to talk a woman into going in there, but in a studio apartment I can get a girl from the dining room, into the bedroom just by moving a pizza box off the couch. (audience laughing) I'm broke man, but I'm in a good mood tonight 'cause I just finished a book by Susie Orman called &quot;The Nine Steps &quot;To Financial Freedom&quot; and my new financial plan is to marry Susie Orman. (audience laughing) I used to worry about my credit cards and then I read that the average American has over $9,000 in credit card debt, so I am way above average. (audience laughing) Even the credit card companies think so every time they send me a statement right next to my balance, they always write the word &quot;outstanding&quot;. (audience laughing) Last month, American Express called me up and go, &quot;Mr. McDonald, your balance &quot;has been outstanding &quot;for the past two months.&quot; Listen, I just got back from Vegas, so next month you are going to be so proud. (audience laughing) Now I got the cash back rewards card, 'cause I figured out if you charge over $5,000 a month you can get enough cash back to make your minimum payment. (audience laughing) Last month MasterCard sent me a letter that said &quot;Final Notice&quot;. Thank God. (audience laughing) I didn't think those guys would ever give up. (audience laughing) I'm in a good mood tonight, because tonight for the first night I'm wearing my brand new shirt from T.J. Maxx. (audience laughing) Retail price, $60. T.J. Maxx price, $20. It had some imperfections, like it used to be a dress, (audience laughing) but I took it to a tailor, he changed it into a shirt and $38 later, I saved two bucks. (audience laughing) That's my new thing this year, I'm trying to dress better. I think women appreciate that, so I went online. I looked up the top 10 fashion mistakes made by men as rated by supermodels and some of you guys are thinking, Jim you're never going to be with a super model and I say, look, supermodels get drunk too. (audience laughing) Some of them partay. (audience laughing) Number one, fashion mistake made by men, cargo shorts. Women hate them unless you're married (audience laughing) because if you're married, people will see your wedding ring and your cargo shorts and think well that guy's wife just wants to make it impossible for him to cheat, (audience laughing) so if she buys you cargo shorts that is not a gift (audience laughing) that is birth control. (audience laughing) Number two fashion mistake made by guys, sports jerseys especially on a first date, unless you're going to the game at the stadium and you're on the team. (audience laughing) Well, I'd like to let the young women in the crowd let you know that I do not have any tattoos on my body because I was raised in a family where I was taught to treat my body like a temple, but when I see someone with tattoos I still think their body is a temple. I just think that temple happens to be in a really bad neighborhood . (audience laughing) I would also like to apologize to the women in the crowd because I don't have any tears or holes in my jeans. That's the style now. If you have tears or holes in your jeans, you're in style. I do not have tears or holes in my jeans. However, my underwear . . . (audience laughing) more than makes up for it. (audience laughing) Do you have holes in your underwear, sir? No? How do you put them on? (audience laughing) I got that joke off a Dixie riddle cup. (audience laughing) I was just in London, England. Yeah and I stayed at this hotel that was supposed to be haunted. They told me that there's this ghost that turns on lights and TVs. I didn't think about it until one morning I woke up and someone or something had finished all the liquor in the minibar, (audience laughing) so I refused to pay those charges, because when it comes to the supernatural there's two types of people. Those that don't believe, and those that negotiate at check-out. (audience laughing) Flew there on my new favorite airline, British Airways and they're my favorite, because on every British Airways flight all alcohol is always free. Next month I fly from Los Angeles to Las Vegas. I booked my ticket on British Airways. We have to change planes in Hong Kong but I don't care. (audience laughing) They showed the movie &quot;Taken&quot; on the flight. but before it began, it said, the movie was edited for content and modified to fit the screen and Liam Neeson is six foot four, so he wasn't in it. (audience laughing) It was Danny DeVito and it sucked. (audience laughing) They also showed my old girlfriend's favorite movie on the flight, &quot;Dirty Dancing&quot; and at first I wasn't sure if I would like the movie &quot;Dirty Dancing&quot;, but after watching it with her 47 times I became sure I didn't like my old girlfriend, (audience laughing) but luckily the movie stopped working and if you wonder how long it takes before a movie stops working, I figured out if you put the DVD in the microwave . . . it's less than a minute. (audience laughing) She also loved every show by Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber. She told me he's a Sir, because the Queen made him a Knight and now that he's a Knight, if the Queen is ever attacked it's his responsibility to protect her. He is a Knight. In my lifetime, the Queen has knighted the following individuals, Andrew Lloyd Webber, Paul McCartney Mick Jagger, Elton John. If the Queen's ever attacked, she's toast. (audience laughing) I told that joke in London, and some woman came up to me after the show and said, &quot;Your act is rubbish&quot;. Look I'm from the United States of America. My act is not rubbish. My act is garbage. (audience laughing) Last year my old girlfriend and I flew to Hawaii. I don't know if you guys know much about American history, but she explained to me that Hawaii is where they filmed the movie, Pearl Harbor. (audience laughing) If you haven't seen it, here's the plot. It's 1941 and an American nurse falls in love with two different pilots at the same time and the acting and the dialogue and the story are so bad. Halfway through the Japanese attack to try and stop the movie (audience laughing) and then the someone, or something put the DVD in the microwave. (audience laughing) I go to Italy next summer, so my friend taught me these survival expressions. He said in Southern Italy, all you have to know how to say is, (speaks in Italian), which means, &quot;I heard the gunshots, &quot;but I didn't see anything.&quot; (audience laughing) In Northern Italy, all you have to know how to say is (speaks in Italian), which means, &quot;Now that I think about it, &quot;I didn't even hear the gunshots.&quot; (audience laughing) I was in Germany two years ago, performing for the troops, yeah. (audience cheers) They were the German troops, but thank you. (audience laughing) Let me tell you they are precise in Germany. When they say the plane leaves at 10:15 in Germany, they mean 10:15. It's not that way in America. We say the plane leaves at 10:15. We mean October 15th. (audience laughing) Did the Montreal Comedy Festival. That was exceptional, because the French Canadian women are so beautiful. Unfortunately, the only thing I know how to say in French is, voulez-vous couchez avec-moi, ce soir? (audience laughing) Gitchy gitchy ya ya da da. (audience laughing) Mocha choca lakta ya ya. (audience laughing) It's a song Sir. (audience laughing) Well, the airport announcements in Montreal are bilingual, so if you listen close, you can pick up some French. You get something like, (click sound) &quot;American Airlines flight number 11 &quot;has been delayed 20 minutes. (click sound) &quot;The Americans are so stupid. &quot;Their plane is slow because &quot;they are all so fat. (audience laughing) &quot;Bon voyage.&quot; (audience laughing) You might not know it to look at me but I'm getting into the environment this year. Anybody like me trying to help out the environment? Do their bit, anybody? (audience cheers) Yeah, that's what I'm doing. Stopped using straws, 'cause I found out they end up in the oceans. so I'm going back to rolled up dollar bills. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) If you laughed at that joke, you just told me a lot about your history (audience laughing) and snitches get stitches. (audience laughing) (audience laughing) You don't have to flush the toilet every time. Do you? You waste water. Use the old rhyme. If it's yellow, let it mellow. If it's brown, flush it down. If it's green, like the sea, you have an STD. (audience laughing) I don't use the toilet paper when I use the public restroom anymore, because that ends up in the ocean too, so I just bring a receipt from CVS. (audience laughing) Let me tell you something everybody, if you use this instead of toilet paper you can return anything to CVS. (audience laughing) They will trust you, so I'm single. I have to stay in shape. That's the rules. Right now I'm training for the LA Marathon, (audience cheers) Yeah. Every day for two hours I go out on the sidewalk drink beer and yell at strangers, looking good. (audience laughing) I do work out. I think the kind of workout you choose says a lot about your personality. Like, my friend, Nick takes boxing classes and I do yoga, so if we're in a bar and a fight breaks out he wants to be able to defend himself and I want to be able to squeeze out of an eight inch bathroom window (audience laughing) because I will not fight for any reason and some guys try and provoke you, &quot;Your girlfriend's ugly.&quot; Oh yeah? Well you should see her without makeup. (audience laughing) My brother-in-law is even healthier than me he's a vegetarian and I eat meat, so he is always on my case. &quot;Look, man, if you knew, &quot;what went on behind the scenes &quot;at a slaughter house, &quot;you would become a vegetarian&quot; Look, I used to work at a restaurant. If you knew what went on behind the scenes at the salad bar (audience laughing) you would become an alcoholic. (audience laughing) When our cauliflower turned green, we just called it broccoli. (audience laughing) Every time I eat something bad, he's always on my case. One time I was gonna eat a hot dog, He's like, &quot;Do you know &quot;what's in a hot dog?&quot; No, nobody does each one's different. (audience laughing) A hot dog is something you have to eat on faith. One time I bit into a hot dog and I hit something hard. Did I spit it out? No, I didn't want to know what it was. (audience laughing) I swallowed it, could be bone could be wood, either way I need the fiber. (audience laughing) &quot;Yeah, I'm gonna live a &quot;long life because vegetables &quot;are filled with vitamins&quot;. Well I'm gonna live even longer because hotdogs are filled with preservatives. (audience laughing) You might be healthy, but I am embalmed. If they cremate me, I will burn forever. (audience laughing) Go to Vegas after this. Have you guys have been to Vegas? (audience cheers) If you haven't been or its your first time, bring your golf clubs because after you've been out all night gambling, the next morning you're going to want to go to a pawn shop. (audience laughing) Last time I was in Vegas, I went to a wedding, big scandal. We found out the bride was pregnant. Shocked my parents, 'cause they're Catholics and Catholics believe you are not supposed to tell anybody. (audience laughing) (audience applauding) They should know, because they had six kids, because Catholics don't believe in birth control. My grandparents had 17 kids so they didn't even believe in self-control. (audience laughing) My mom is desperate to get me married, but she's very indirect. She'll say stuff like, &quot;Oh, &quot;I don't want to pressure you &quot;but I want to have &quot;grandkids before I die.&quot; And I would say, I don't want to pressure you but you might want to have another baby. (audience laughing) One time I took a woman out, when she found out I had never been married she asked me if there was something wrong with me. That's kind of rude. I would never say that to her, 'cause she was divorced, so I knew there was something wrong with her (audience laughing) and I got nothing against divorced people. A lot of my friends have been through it, so I've seen how painful it can be. That's why people cry at weddings. (audience laughing) That's not family, those are divorced people having a flashback, (audience laughing) but if I do get married, I'll never get divorced, because I'm a Catholic. We don't get divorces. We get annulments. It's a statement from the church. Your marriage never even existed, so all you got to do is get rid of the photographs. You ever go to Walmart and see those picture frames with the people already inside them. Those are the Catholics. (audience laughing) That's it for me, you guys have been very nice. Thanks a lot for coming to Dry Bar comedy. (audience cheers)