This is what the original Jurassic Park T-rex breakout scene looks like - - and this is what it looks like if it were done today with our modern understanding of dinosaurs. At the time, these were the most scientifically accurate dinosaurs we had ever seen on screen. But after 29 years, they're obviously a bit outdated, which begs the question - - what would these iconic movie scenes look like with modern depictions of these magnificent animals? Well to answer that I went ahead and made scientifically accurate models of these 4 dinosaurs from the Jurassic Park franchise - and added them back into the movies! Alan Grant - How'd you do this? I knew that I had to start nowhere else but with everyone's favorite queen - Rexy. I needed her to be based around real science and everything we now know about the real animal - So I downloaded this 3D scan of a real fossil and dropped it into blender. But the head was a bit wonky, I then remembered that I had this guy sitting right next to me - So I went outside, took some photos with my phone, and after putting it through some software - - bam - an accurate, un-wonky T-Rex skull. And this provided the perfect base to start sculpting. This is where I get to build up the forms and shapes of the creature, and just really get her to look like a real, well-fed, living animal. This is actually my favorite part of the whole process. 50 Million polygons later - the sculpt is all done. And now we're missing one more thing - color. Which is one of the things that doesn't fossilize. So what color should our dinosaurs be? Well it's likely that dinosaurs were very brightly colored just like modern birds, more brightly colored than the ones in the movies - except, any real fan will know that those dinosaurs are supposed to be female, which means the more dull and brown coloring from the movie might actually be fairly accurate. So, since it wasn't broken I decided not to fix it. I then gave it a skeleton, and did something I've never done before - added muscle simulation for that extra sense of realism. Once the model is finished - here is where you really see what has changed. She's chunkier, has lips, But other than that, its actually not that much of a deviation, which goes to show how accurate the Jurassic Park T-rex really was for the time. BUT - where are the feathers? Well...T-rex probably didn't have any. You see - it was probably just too big to have feathers. It would be akin to an elephant wearing a coat in the savannah - it would've made the animal overheat. Maybe a peach fuzz style covering as seen in Prehistoric Planet would've been possible, but there's little evidence for that also. And so following Occam's razor, and to save on some render time - I'm opting on a featherless T-rex. In fact she was so big that she probably couldn't even run! But her legs were so long that she could probably still beat you in a race! Sam: Don't say it! x2 *T-rex roars Sam: Come on! I was also able to add this animated raindrop material to really make her feel nice and wet. And to bring her into the movie was a process of matching the cam era position and lighting of the original footage, rendering that out, and then comping her into the scenes inside of After Effects. And now before we see everything put together, there's only one thing left to do - And that's tell you about today's sponsor - RAID: Shadow Legends The first game to bring a true, console-level experience to your phone - And why you need to play! Graphics. Come on, its a beautiful game. Especially for your phone - And there's so many awesome champions to choose from! AND it's just fun to play! Right now RAID is running an amazing Trick or Treat Promotion Where you can win a bunch of real life and in-game prizes The best part? Its all FREE! All you need is your RAID player ID. Just download RAID with my link, then head here ^ (URL on screen) Enter your details, spin the wheel, and get your prize! But hurry up! And if you're new, click my link in the description, or scan my QR Code - To get unique bonuses which include - 200k silver, 1 Free Energy Refill, 1XP Boost, 1 Ancient Shard, and 1 Free Epic Champion - Rector Drath And you can find all of this, right here! So go ahead and download now! And now, with EVERYTHING out of the way - Its time to see what Jurassic Park would look like, with a Scientifically Accurate T-rex: Lex: Where's the goat? Grant: Don't move. It can't see us if we don't move. Oh yeah also forgot to mention that T-rex might have the best eyesight, like ever - so.... However, T-rex isn't the only dinosaur in the series - So next up are the main villains of the franchise - The Velociraptors. Now these guys NEED to be terrifying. But you see, a real velociraptor was about the size of a dog. Not very scary. Which explains why Spielberg based them on the biggest raptor they had yet found - Deinonychus But even these guys weren't big enough. So what are we to do? Luckily for us, during filming, they found this guy - A 6 foot tall, 18 foot long, Raptor Giant. This, is the Utahraptor. I again started with the skeleton, and guys, its head, was the size of a man's torso. For a quick comparison, here's the difference between a velociraptor, a deinonychus, and finally the Utahraptor. This guy is terrifying. Except for its jaw. Some people might think I made a mistake, but no it very much looked like that. Perfect for gobbling up hotdogs, or starting a shrimp business. And, unlike the T-rex - This guy was definitely covered in feathers. So the little fat kid in the movie who says - Little fat kid: More like a 6 foot turkey Grant: So you have chosen death. Was more right than he could ever know. Because you see, not only would it have LOOKED like a giant turkey, But it probably would've been about as intelligent. Which leads us to a question I want to address - Could a raptor have opened a door as shown in the movie? Well not even modern birds can figure out how to - Oh. Well then...That's good to know... However, unlike humans dinosaurs couldn't pronate their wrists. And so if they tried this, well their wrists would break. So, I had to animate it in such a way that it could grip the handle without its palm. With the animation and model now finished, we again go through the process of comping her into the scenes - And without further adieu, here you have the kitchen scene from Jurassic Park, with a scientifically accurate Raptor: Lex: Timmy what is it? Timmy: It's a raptor. Lex: It's inside. But now let's see it with an accurate velociraptor. Next up is the dinosaur who has probably held up the worst - The Spinosaurus. Now to be fair, in 2001 when they made the third movie, there wasn't that much information available. However, recent discoveries have given us a much better look at one of the franchise's most controversial dinosaurs. And oh boy are you guys in for a ride - Why? Because this guy...was weird. How weird? Firstly he was gigantic - 50 feet long and truly one of the largest and biggest meat eaters that ever lived. But weird. Long arms, short legs. this crocodile-like head, and its paddle-like tail which it likely used to propel itself forward in the water to catch fish. And all this points to one thing - It seemed to be at least semi-aquatic. So how much different is this weird chimera of a dinosaur from what we thought? Well this is what he looked like in the movies - This is what he looked like in 2013 - And now here is our modern reconstruction - A far cry from the terrestrial beast seen in the movies. And its clear that this guy wasn't spending too much time hunting on land. Which brings us to the most controversial scene in the entire franchise - And one that I knew you guys would want me to address - Could a Spinosaurus actually beat a T-rex? And well for that, I'm just going to refer to paleontologist Dr. Dave Hone: Dr. Dave Hone: I've refused on principle to answer the question, 'Who would win in a fight between?', - because I think it is the most trite, boring and uninteresting thing that one could possibly say about dinosaurs, - even in fiction. But it's T-rex. It pretty much comes down to T-rex being just too heavily armored of a dinosaur, Especially when compared to Spinosaurus. With its super powerful bite force, as soon as it got that initial neck bite in - Well, its game over. However, I actually love the Spinosaurus, and I think the debate takes away from how cool and unique this dinosaur really was. So instead for the recreation, since everything about its anatomy points to it being a swimmer, There's no better scene to recreate than the one in the river. To really show off the Spinosaurus in its natural habitat. And, once again, with all that out of the way - Here is Jurassic Park 3, with a scientifically accurate Spinosaurus: *Grant yelling at the phone I wanted to do at least one dinosaur from the new movies, but considering the first 2 films featured fictionalized hybrids - there was only option: Grant: The biggest carnivore the world has ever seen. The Giganotosaurus. And oh boy. Now this, while defiintiely a cool design, is also one of the least accurate depictions of any dinosaur in the entire franchise Especially considering that we have quite a few fossils of the real animal - And the one shown in the movie could be mistaken for another hybrid. So what did the Giganotosaurus actually look like? Well if T-rex was the Mike Tyson of the Cretaceous, then the Giganotosaurus would be the Usain Bolt. Built much more for speed and athleticism compared to a heavyweight brawler. And I think that really comes through in our model. So, was he truly the biggest meat eater that ever lived? Well, he was definitely big. But really, probably about as big as T-rex. From the fossils we have, any size difference is kind of negligible. So Spinosaurus is still the king in that regard. However this time I was just running low on time, so instead I brought him into Unreal Engine Where I rebuilt the entire scene from scratch. And so here is Jurassic World: Dominion with a scientifically accurate Giganotosaurus: Sattler: What is that? Grant: Giganotosaurus. Biggest carnivore the world has ever seen. Malcolm: Oh yeah, come here. And there you have: Jurassic Park with scientifically accurate dinosaurs. Let me know which one was your favorite, and alright guys, SUBSCRIBE, and I'll see you later!