- [Jared] This is a Speed Cube. It's a special kind of Rubik's Cube that is meant to be solved very quickly. In this video, we'll the basics of how to solve one, and then we'll take a look This video is sponsored by SpeedCubeShop, your source for all things cubing. (upbeat music) I like Rubik's Cubes. It's a fun 3D puzzle to try and you know what? It's a lot easier to animate than some of these large So it's a nice little break, It was invented by Erno Rubik in 1974. This happened in Budapest, Hungary. It was originally called the Magic Cube and it looked a little bit different. In 1980, it was renamed Since then, it's become Lots of other size variations of the cube have also appeared, and these get bigger and bigger and bigger, okay, not that big. The largest one I think but it's a little more But of course, the most the original puzzle size. Now, it's fun not just to solve it but to solve it as fast as possible. The problem with the Rubik's Cube is that it wasn't There can be a lot of as you spin them. Sometimes moving too quickly and the cube starts to fall apart. Not good if you're Those that wanna solve it and they usually don't use They use a Speed Cube. The sides turn much easier, have rounded edges. This allows you to do something This means that before we finish a turn we can start the next one. Remember, it's a Speed Cube, The way you solve one of It just depends on how The real question, can you solve one? Maybe, maybe not. Let's go over a few of the basics that might help you get started. The center pieces are fixed in place. They don't move at all, These make up the core of the cube which we'll take a closer The rest of the pieces are called cubies and there are 20 of them. These are the pieces that Simple, right? Just get the 20 cubies in the right place. When first starting out it's pretty exciting but you have to keep in mind we're not just moving we're moving around For example, corner pieces and these colors will so even though you've solved one side, these pieces aren't in the right place until the entire layer is solved. Then you can move on to solve One of the most popular is called CFOP and this is an acronym which and, okay, it's not too bad. Stick with me for just a minute. This method solves the and working your way up. Although this isn't a detailed tutorial, let me at least give you a First, the cross, which will Remember, the colors have to on the side, so let's It would be in the wrong we're good to go. Next is F2L or first 2 layers. You'll notice we already We just need to figure out Start with the corner and then the edge pieces (bright music) Experienced Speed Cubers will or first 2 layers pair bringing them both down at the same time. This last layer is a little tricky because you have to without messing up what you've There are two steps for this last layer. We start with OLL or This lines up the colors on top while ignoring the side colors. (bright music) Then finally, PLL or This uses special moves to until it's completely solved. (bright music) To really master this, you'll or a specific set of steps where you want them to go. For example, one of swapping these three edge pieces around. There's a specific algorithm to do this without messing up any There are a few different but the most popular one is the one we just demonstrated, CFOP. But speed cubing or let isn't for everyone, and that's okay. It's still fun to mess around with. Let's dive into the As we talked about before, which holds the six They're fixed in place, Each cube has 8 corner For the original Rubik's Cube these pieces have extra The plastic holds the cube together. It's a bit more blocky of a design and it has a lot more friction which is okay if you're The Speed Cube is going to on the inside. The corner pieces and edge pieces they look a little bit different as well. They're designed to be smooth and sleek and to minimize friction. (bright music) The core of the cube The Speed Cube has something It's made up of six springs The core and the screws are fixed in place but the centerpieces are by the spring. Because of the springs this is actually a bit flexible. You can pull the pieces This is one of the reasons that corner cutting works so well. On the regular Rubik's Cube corner cutting is not really possible. You have to completely line up the turn before starting the next one. The tension system on the Speed The caps on the centerpieces come off which exposes a tiny screw. If you happen to have a screwdriver you can tighten the screw which makes the cube less flexible or held together more firm or loosen the screw, If possible, you'll wanna to the same amount. This allows you to customize your cube just how you like it. A lot of enthusiasts on their cube to further You can get these lubricants or you can have it professionally before you even get your cube. As part of the service that the tension is just right. And if you ever want then loosening these screws In some cubes, they will use which is short for magnetic levitation. If you put two of the same they will push off of each other. So in the Speed Cube instead the magnets now do the pushing. This eliminates any noise from the springs but also gets rid of even more friction because the magnets Regardless of what magnets or springs, there's another place that magnets can be used in the edge and corner pieces. This helps align the so as long as you get close the magnets will pull it back into place. There is a whole community out there that is quite passionate They have championships all over the world to see who can solve them the quickest. The current world record for a 3 x 3 solve is just over 3 seconds. That's fast. The Speed Cube shown in this after the MoYu RS3 M. However, there are of Speed Cubes as well. SpeedCubeShop, you can all the way up to that 21 x 21. Good luck solving that one. Not just cubes, but other Some of them very interesting. SpeedCubeShop is located but don't worry they ship worldwide. When you order from their website you'll also be supporting my channel and the animations that I make. For all the fun make sure you to get a discount at SpeedCubeShop. So have fun speed cubin, you might wanna watch Click one of the cards on screen or click here to subscribe. My name's Jared. Thanks for watching. (bright music)