Translator: Michele Gianella Steve Mazan: This is our current energy Factory, to lines, to house. You want to tear it down and replace it. Robert Green: That's right. The worldwide electrical grid is too ill suited, dangerous, to produce and convey electrical current. In fact, it is proven to the economies and the well being The electrical grid itself is contrary to the Electricity is not suited Which is where we're at, right? We have a factory where we make it, and then it goes along lines To get to your house, it's a long way. - Right, and the reason is because the longer the lines, And that resistance will actually take most - So we're wasting a lot The way the grid deals is to use huge transformers to up the voltage in order to force it through the lines. That high voltage actually promotes and encourages outages and failure by defying another law of electricity, which is that electricity always seeks That high voltage to try to evade and try to escape and jump to a line or somewhere else. - An easier route. - Then we have to bring it - Homes don't take it like that. - There are other transformers that brings it down to low voltage Those also cause more resistance. All of these transformers actually - Like you said, pretty inefficient. - But when these transformers fail, they fail because if there's they get too hot, and they'll actually And that causes blackouts of huge areas. There's really no way of - But the most common outages that are in the way of the lines. Then, of course, are things like - you already know this - - I see trees all the time. on every street they're cutting down, This is number two? - Yeah, this is the second - They seem [Laughter] - Then you have the weather, is the third, and fires, and accidents, and so. - That looks like Michigan - Then, what we also have is sabotage and cyberattacks There's a cyber attacker. - Those seem like maybe and this one a zoo escape. On a serious note, We're very susceptible to that. - Right. But besides that, It's really not aesthetically pleasing. You could see by these major lines Why can't we just upgrade this system? Why can't it be fixed? There's just too much friction to overcome and too much loss to friction. And there's too much vulnerability to all of these things Utility companies have to have for an occurrence It's impossible to deal with that. But actually, the failures have caused [a loss of] about - That's a huge amount. - If there could be certainly they would have done it by now. - Yeah, would have been there, done it. Whenever we talk about energy, the first two things people always tend to be wind or solar, Could that be the fix - Not really, because wind and solar use the grid Even when there is a power failure, These are intermittent energy supplies, They can't even really help They can never replace - We are here in California, obviously. Up north we have the big wind farms, and on the way to Vegas They are creating electricity, but you're saying the delivery system - Right. - We could have the same - Long-distance transmission - Is still a problem. So what is the solution? I'm told that you have - The only thing that can take we'd have to get rid - We'd have to do - Right, we'd have to use of locally produced energy and fuel, and it would work night and day which solar and wind doesn't. Scalable for industrial Very small footprint, Not like the grid, It has to use renewable, From waste, actually. And it has to be quiet, and be able to operate Then, also, it has to provide that needs little or no - Obviously, that's a lot. To say the thing we need to replace I assume you are going to tell me that we have something - Yes, the only thing that can cover is a modern piston steam engine. There is one there. - The old modern They were running steamboats High steam pressure. This is obviously not that. - No, it's low-pressure steam. But also, it can at the same time The efficiency and the simplicity is really the high, for any system. It can operate on any scale. - This would be, maybe I would assume this size would be the kind - Yes, this could run a house. - Just this engine, here, - Yes. in the same place - Yeah, it fits in with a heater tank. You don't have because this provides your hot water. - It'd replace that too, - Yes. -You are saying we wouldn't have We wouldn't have to worry if the electrical grid goes down. - That's right, it's independent - No blackouts. It's just you. - If you go down, your house goes down. Your neighbor would be fine, - You said it runs on renewable fuels. What exactly are they? - Renewable fuels are any waste. The source of the... - [Laughs] Yeah. The source of the fuel could be any of these things and basically things In fact, this mitigates - It almost reminds you, I think it was the end where they're putting - Yeah, it's everything. - It could use that to power, - That's right, any kind and that can be converted into biogas, which can be delivered - The gas lines that are already out there that some use for stoves, - Are these engines, Is this just an idea, - These are made today. My company is making these engines, but we also offer a patented technology and offer licenses for the technology So they are available online. - As you said, this would be but a building would have - Oh, yes. They'd have large ones. - And these are safe? My idea of a steam engine is an engine on a boat It's very hot and crazy. That's not how it would be in your house. These would make - All of the heat is used. so it is taken away and used, so you'd have your own and the heating system - It runs that. - And makes your hot water Everything together. - I'm told that even an engine like this can keep recharging an electrical car. - Oh yes, yeah. This is a car that's being that's a steam / electric car. - One of these is inside there? - Right, it actually runs on rice husks. - Oh wow, so this is - Yeah. [Laughter] - That's great. That's amazing. You mentioned all the things for people to even consider this but I'm told there are that this will provide, Yes, in addition to producing it produces all your space heat, as well as it can actually It can also be used for water pumping, Anything that you'd use And it has water distilling capabilities, so you can distill water with it at the same time - So you'd be making water, - Yes, you can recycle your water. It can recycle wastewater, and convert it into reusable water. But it also can run off of waste heat It can be used in geothermal, and it's capable of giving energy It's suitable for greenhouses Everything in a greenhouse - You said this is People would have this in their house. It takes away the grid, It would work, obviously - It'd work in conjunction, rather than a gigantic farm Right, it can work in conjunction It can actually run off of solar, itself, because you can actually - Through the solar. I'm told you have a schematic how the steam engine - 90 percent of electricity today But it's made with fossil fuels - I don't know if you know Robert, I served on board a nuclear submarine. Our whole idea was, we... - Right, that runs with steam, too. - You have the reactor That's what it ends up being. - But you're saying the dangerous stuff, the fossil fuels. - Yes. - And this is how. - Right, this can run But the way the steam is recycled Because they have to take in order to convert it back into water - Yeah, the big cooling towers. So they cool the steam Here's an example And this is just total waste. A waste of energy. All that waste, all that energy But with this system, with a steam engine power system it produces, instead of waste, and your space heat, and it can make air conditioning When you are making the electricity, you are using all of that waste heat - You mentioned the fuels, and we were talking about the biomass like leftover banana peels Are there other fuels being used today? - There's a lot of companies that are making They are also are making biogas, - So if you didn't have those things, then there would be that would power these things? Yes, pellets are great for rural areas and you just fill - Would you need a battery - No, that's the great thing about this. You don't need large electrical storage. You only need a few hours of storage, so you really don't need like Elon Musk wants. - He looks sad. - [Laughter] You've let him down. You are not going to use his batteries. It's a pretty incredible idea, that you want to tear This is probably where we start, today. What's your vision for the future? - The first thing, I'd like to burn all of the utility poles - Yeah, start us there. - Would you use that for fuel? It'd last. There are many different fuels but this is an example of the pellets. In general, that industry is another industry out of this new system. It can be made all locally, from the local biomass and waste that needs to be gotten rid of anyway. - You see waste as our future, right? - That's revolutionary, Robert. Robert Green, and his - Thank you.