- I'm going to fly on Bhutan - Our boarding time is 8:13, and after the immigration checks, on the right-hand side, there is the Radisson lounge and you can use the Radisson lounge, okay? Have a nice flight, sir. - [Sam] Thank you. (upbeat music) You can use your credit or a Priority Pass to come to the lounge. (upbeat music) Good morning from And today I'm going to If you don't know where Bhutan is, it's a landlocked country in the Himalayas between China, India, and Nepal. But as an Aviation geek, Bhutan Bhutan is well known for its dangerous and unique approach in to their airport. The airport is situated between So guys, I'm very excited, (aeroplane engine roaring) - This is our plane, welcome aboard. - Hot towel sir ? - [Sam] Thank you. - What would you like to drink sir? There's a drink menu. Please turn to the list, sir. - [Sam] Orange juice. (upbeat music) - Hello, and welcome aboard, Sam. My name is Chenga, and I'm the Chief Pilot Today, the flight will be The flight time will be just about approximately about 40 minutes. And today we are expecting subject to traffic, around and we're expecting good And as we, maybe after 15 minutes or so, we might see Mount I'll point them out to you. Thank you, welcome aboard. (upbeat music) - Cockpit? - [Cockpit] Yes, sir? - We're just scanning hand signals (cockpit responds) Bye-bye. (upbeat music) - Bhutan Air 774 to depart next (tower responds) Next to all the plane, the (Chenga speaking softly) Next to all the plane a Are we clear to Paro, Gulf 34872708. This one ground departure, (plane engine roaring) Before takeoff check list. - Right. - Check. Flight instruments? - Check, briefing? - Flaps setting? V1, VR, V2, flex temperature? - What? - 1-2-7, 1-2-7, 1-4-8, flex 5-0. ATC, set. ECAM Memo? - Down with the 90. - Today, we are lucky. Fortunately, not much traffic, But, most of the time, because of the traffic conditions and the parking stands, we end up holding sometimes for almost 45 minutes or at least one hour. We can end up waiting for that long - [Tower] Bhutan Air - [Copilot] Line up on (upbeat music) [Cheng] So we have the backs all green. (audio from tower) - Runway 02, confirm. Cabin crew? (Copilot speaking) (Cheng and copilot speaking) - Packs? - Before lift off checklist? - Okay, done. (upbeat music) - [Tower] Bhutan Air 774, Runway 02, clear for takeoff. - [Copilot] Take this one (muffled speech) Clear for takeoff, Runway - [Cheng] Are you ready? Ready? - Ready, go. - Stabilised. (audio from tower) - Check. We're all set. (plane engine roaring) - [Tower] 4519 (muffled instructions) (Copilot and tower conversing) (plane rattling) - 3-1. Rocking. (plane engine rattling) All systems light up. - Yep. Check. (audio from tower) - [Cheng] (speaking softly) Bhutan Air 774 (speaking softly) - [Tower] Bhutan Air 774 Continue climb to flight level, 2-7-0 continue to climb. - Correcting the plan level (upbeat music) - [Tower] Bhatan Air 774 - [Cheng] Crossing 8,300 Bhutan Air 774. - [Tower] Bhutan 774 identified. - Between Kathmandu and the top 10 highest mountains - On the centre, just between the... within two hours, you almost see the top 10 highest So exactly left of me, that is Cho Oyu. That is the 6th highest And you can see a pointed peak there with some snow getting blown off. That is Everest. That is the highest point The height is measured at 8,850 metres. And just close to Mt. Everest That is Lhotse. That is supposed to be in the world, Mount Lhotse. And the height of Mount The last one that you see is Mount Makalu. That is number five, 5th And the height of Mount (upbeat music) Around twenty years back, we used to find that this A lot of snow between But as you can see, you know, now we don't see much snow. Sadly, I think that clearly shows that global warming is (upbeat music) - It's a 40-minute flight. This is very nice. This is like a chicken Cheers. - I'd like to welcome you on board. - Wow. - This is something just yours. - Wow, so nice, thank you so much. - This is a welcome gift - Wow, look at this. It says, &quot;Bhutan Airlines Beautiful cake. Let's enjoy this cake The captain, first officer. You guys are so kind. Lets share with everyone - Sure, sir. - Yeah? Alright, excellent. Thank you so much. (soft music) - [Cheng] There, that's Bhutan Mountain. The left one is Jomolhari, that is the second highest mountain in Bhutan. - [Sam] Oh! - [Cheng] Yeah,and slightly Then we have Masangang, Sam, so what we are going to do now... We have just about 14 miles to go and then we will have the visual. So normally, once we have the this GPWS system off. Because normally it's a known standard. We're supposed to follow the That means we are close to the mountains. Since we have the visual, we (signal beep) - GPWS off? (plane engine roaring) (beep) Once you push it, the GPWS will fall. (mechanical whining) (plane engine roaring) Bhutan Air 774. - [Tower] Bhutan Air 774 - So the airport is just here behind this. Just behind this cloud. So what we're doing is So Sam, our viewer is just The reason why we had to keep this viewer is just to get the signal. Normally, the viewer is right at the airfield next to the runway. Here, in order to get the signal, the concept people are quickly going in order to get the signal. So we are just over the hill, and the airfield is just behind the hill. - [Sam] Right. - [Cheng] So what we're doing is we're trying to lose the height and trying to fly between the valley. And then our aim is to... You can see there's a bridge there. - [Sam] Yeah. - That's where we're aiming there and we're looking for about 12,000 feet. And we call this a confluence because this is where two rivers from Thimphu So we are heading towards the bridge, and then we're going to and head towards the airfield. You can see the airfield just now. Now you don't see it. You'll see airfield Only at the last moment because of the hills. - [Sam] Ah, it's hiding. - It's hiding, yeah. - [Sam] Yeah. - Let's do it, the landing checklist. - [Copilot] Landing checklist. Cabin crew? - Advised. - Advised. - Speed. ECAM MEMO? - And I'm a Buddhist so And we have a lot of monasteries here. Can you see there's a There, one monastery there, one monastery, and one is below here. We have a lot of monasteries here. (plane engine roaring) - [Electronic Voice] 2,500. - [Copilot] Bhutan Air (plane engine roaring) - We have a... you can see There, one more monastery, It's a very popular monastery. And, further left, you (plane engine roaring) - [Electronic Voice] 1,000. - [Copilot] Flight, stabilised. - [Electronic Voice] 500. - [Electronic Voice] 500. - [Electronic Voice] 200. - [Electronic Voice] 50. - [Electronic Voice] 40, 30, 20, retard, retard, retard, retard. - [Copilot] Spoilers. GUSB? It's in. (plane engine roaring) (Copilot speaking softly) (Audio from tower) (Audio from tower) (upbeat music) - I never could dream of doing a landing into Paro, the world's I just want to know, is it only captains that can land - Yes, only captains are allowed here. - Only captains allowed. - Yes, captains are allowed, and it will take a minimum of at least, a minimum of eight to 10 years - Eight to 10 years for first officers- - Minimum. - to become a captain - Yes, that's minimum. - I heard also, like, certified and qualified to land here. - Approximately, we have local pilots, about 15, approximately 15 local pilots. - Thrilling. It's thrilling, really thrilling. Until last minute, you turn - [Cheng] Welcome to Bhutan. - [Sam] Amazing, thank - [Cheng] I'm sure more than landing, I'm sure you'll enjoy Bhutan, as well. - Thank you so much It's so amazing and such an honour to come to the beautiful (speaking foreign language) (clapping) (speaking foreign language) (powerful music) - I'm already doing plane spotting, 10 minutes after landing. So this is the beautiful From this view point here, really high up, you can see the whole terminal. Beautiful day, and you which is like a palace museum of Paro, and then you can see the (plane taking off) (birds chirping) (whooshing) (ding)