Scones can be made in different recipes. Some are soft in texture, some are rather flaky. But perfect scones should have loose texture inside. And here is my version of beautiful scones, with beautiful color on the outside with some marks, while still moist inside. Starting off with butter which will be the key factor that makes a scone delicious. Choose butter containing 80% fat or higher. The higher fat, the more aromatic it is and of course very tasty. Once you cut the butter in chunks, refrigerate it for about 10 minutes. Moving on to the wet ingredients. Begin with eggs. Protein in egg whites will incorporate flour, while fat in egg yolks will make scones smooth and moist. Following with whipping cream , fresh milk that adds creaminess and rich flavor. Add some drops of vanilla extract to increase its nice smell. Mix everything up and refrigerate for 10 minutes before use. Next, let's prepare the dry ingredients. I'm using all-purpose flour and cake flour for this recipe. All-purpose flour contains proteins that will make the texture of the scone flaky with beautiful outer shell color when baked. Cake flour doesn't contain much protein so it can absorb liquid well. It helps to add softness to scones. So I'm going to use both of them since I want it to be crisp on the outside while soft from the inside. Add a pinch of salt to compliment the flavor. What you cannot miss is baking powder which makes scones puff up when baked. It is not recommended to add a baking soda because there's no acid ingredients in a scone recipe. If you add a baking soda which is a base that cannot react with anything, it will leave a scone with bitter and harsh to taste. Then add the refrigerated chunks of butter in it. With your fingers, crush them and mix them with flour until mixed well. Small chunks of butter can incorporate flour easier. When the mixture turns into sand-like like this, add sugar to it. Sugar helps scones brittle and adds nice color to it. I'm not adding sugar in the first place because sugar contains moisture, so when it's mixed with butter it can melt the butter easily. At this stage, you can add dried fruits like raisins or cranberries. Then add liquid mixture into it. Mix everything together with a fork. Make the dough in a round shape and wrap it with a plastic wrap. After that refrigerate the dough overnight or at least 6 hours. This process is very important as it is the time when the dough can absorb liquid. And the result after refrigeration is this beautiful round dough. If you don't let the dough set, it will not come out like this. And it's not going to be rich in flavor. Once the dough is rested outside for 5-10 minutes, you can use a rolling pin to roll out the dough. Give it a 2-centimeter thick. Dip a cutter into some flour and plunge into the dough. Directly plunge and do not twist. Gently pull a scone out of the cutter so it does not flatten just only one side. You can see there are layers around the corners. These layers will puff up when baked, creating cracks on the outer shell of the scones. Once you have finished cutting the dough, you can incorporate the remaining pieces of dough and create another dough. Roll it away into 2-centimeter thick. And repeat with the cutter. Or finish cutting it until the dough runs out and remove the remaining pieces. Then moving on to egg wash process. It requires one egg yolk and one tablespoon of milk, mixed together. Egg yolk creates golden color on the scone and milk gives a shining touch to it. Brush it gently on top of scones. But be careful of the excess on the sides as it can prevent scones from puffing up. Then put the scones in oven, using top and bottom heat with 180 degree Celsius for 16 minutes. When scones are being baked, butter in the dough melts, creating small bubbles all over. And together with baking powder, the dough will gradually puff up, creating some cracks outside And it's done, my take on tasty scones. On top of scones, it appears beautiful golden color, while on the sides it has nice yellow colors with layers of marks. The texture inside is not too dry or flaky. Still have that crunchiness on the outside. It also has a nice buttery smell. Scones are paired with fruit jam and clotted cream. Clotted cream is not the same thing as whipped cream. Whipped cream is a heavy cream beat until light and fluffy, while clotted cream is a whipping cream that is baked under low heat for 12 hours until it becomes dense in texture like this. Sweet and sour jam goes well with thick clotted cream. They are perfect to pair with scones. Nice texture and buttery smell. This is such a great combination. Scones are not difficult to make, you just have to understand how the ingredients work. I would be happy to know that you can apply my recipe in your own style and don't forget to share with us your results. Hope you enjoy baking delicious scones.