My story started on January 7, 2015 2 days later, a terrorist killed and took On November 13, 130 people were murdered by To understand this phenomenon I infiltrated Daesh in France. And I filmed everything with a hidden camera. I am 30 years old, I am a journalist and Muslim. I grew up in the Paris region, My friends had everything, blacks, Arabs. Growing up, some people don't have No accommodation, no transformed their frustration into hatred. They were blinded by the propaganda of Some of my friends have become radicalized, then decided completely It gave me a shock. And I told myself that he For 6 months under a false identity, of the Islamic State which is preparing - I want to attack the unbelievers. I want to kill them and die afterwards. - If I don't come back, for some reason I will succeed in reassembling the organization chart until meeting some of its executives. They will even try to involve me in A car bomb parked in front &quot;The strange alert in the middle of Paris, a was parked near While I was undercover, by a member of the Islamic State. "You're done, man." Since then, I have been threatened. This dangerous journey changed my life This is the story of my within Daesh in France. My infiltration began in the Those classified by the services of We meet fundamentalist imams there At the time, I thought that was where I traveled all over France, but I didn't find any On the contrary, most preachers against those they call the sect. Like here in a mosque - Take care of yourself, They are way too strong. They take - Is this a Daesh sect for you? - Yes, Daesh, Al-Qaeda, The first sympathizers of Daesh, I but on Facebook, I There are a few things to a photomontage evoking the end of the world, and the final battle led by those who do not believe I subscribe to a few Facebook groups like this one, French-speaking and explicit. "A book that guides and a sword that helps." And suddenly, the new ones On the forums, I learned that are found near a The one in the light blue jacket, He is 30 years old and his name is Joseph. He is suspicious. most He calls himself Abu Said. I join in their discussion. - Here, planes sometimes In addition, the planes that land here, businessmen and all that. - You take a small rocket launcher, France will be traumatized Dawla islamia, in Arabic, Daesh, for them, is a Contrary to appearances, I feel like I don't have On the other hand, after I spot a much less suspicious profile. It's Abu Osama. He chose his nom de guerre Proud of him, the man behind the profile I discover that he is barely 20 years old, that he lives with his father and has already He just got out of prison. A few months before, I recovered the whole file With an accomplice, Abou Osama had established Police note, names are for The police also found They all matched Abu Osama invites me an encrypted messaging application. Here, in anonymity, With just a few clicks, anyone can explosive belt bomb plans Abou Osama says he wants to meet me. He sends me a voicemail. - My situation is complicated. It absolutely has to be I just need to get out They're going to put me straight back in prison. Abou Oussama lives in in the center of France, in Chateauroux. I have an appointment in front of the church. But first I go to a cafe to After half an hour, In his car, Abou Osama the war songs of the Islamic State. He takes me to a park, Abu Osama can start - There are 2 camps those who refuse to It's only 2 camps, He shows me the videos Osama wants to die and I - I want to attack the unbelievers. I want to kill them and I want to die afterwards. I want Allah to give me martyrdom. Tell yourself that when you meet. When Allah authorizes you to be a martyr, you will join your wives in paradise. Your women, they will be You will look far away, that you can't see the You will see angels who will be You will have the pleasure of Allah, you will have you will have your horse next to you and who tells you that it will only be for you, and you can ride on it, you will see your brothers, you will feel I can't figure out if Abou Osama Anyway, I'll figure it out soon - The advantage with you, Well I think. If you let it grow Whereas if you do something like with a small, well-trimmed beard, You dress well, you Abou Osama places his trust in me. He integrates me into his little group Most are in their twenties. Others are more seasoned, He is on site, in Syria, Another participant, Cedric, This video is not coming but from the remand center He was convicted in At his trial, he told the judges that he The Telegram application is encrypted, Abu Osama plays emir. He gave a little name to And to motivate his troops, They are the virgins of the paradise of martyrs. I realize that here we talk a lot - The first moment, brother, when You feel drawn, you have to walk. Your feet alone go towards her. - I'm dreaming. - We will walk in I dream about it ! May Allah grant us martyrdom. We must launch ourselves at the enemy, without - It's a dream, certainly. But it's a dream that I have only just found myself when Paris plunges into horror. There are 7 injured so far. behind fire trucks blood in the street, the police ask us because the danger is always present, We saw pools of blood on the ground. 9 state terrorists near the Stade de France, Abu Osama and the soldiers But on Telegram, - I would like to make a little Allah Akbar &quot;Deactivate your Facebook brothers, we never know if he's a brother "On my 20th birthday! Glory to Allah" 4 days after the attacks, Abu Osama, the one who heads the cell summoned me. He has one - There is a brother who has arrived - Seriously, when did he arrive? He wants to organize something crazy From the capital of his caliphate would have sent a man to prepare after that of November 13. From now on, it is he who - You have to make 2 teams. A team We will divide into 2 groups. Do you know what you need to do? Everything that is Facebook, Find a small job, make money. Save, put aside, All the brothers who have made Those who did it like - Was it the brother who told you that? We need to meet him in person. Abou Suleymane is a fighter who committed the attacks of November 13. It would be hidden somewhere I absolutely have to meet him And the opportunity will quickly present itself. A week later I'm supposed to at Saint-Denis station. He must give me a letter My phone is ringing. I am surprised. It's a female voice. Ultimately, it is not the Abou Suleymane whom I see in the distance, in Islamic dress. She gives me a letter from our new I don't know it yet, but this young I will have to meet her again. In the meantime, his letter burns my fingers. This may be proof Handwritten instructions, This is the best way to avoid When reading, it is very clear, &quot;We can aim for a place where there is a lot The most popular perverse places There should be one or two suicide bombers inside. Once inside, he waits for that Then, the brothers who will be outside armed, and will hide until the We need one or two armed suicide bombers. Here is the attack plan imagined by A kamikaze attack in a cabaret There is no yet but the attack would At the same time, in Chateauroux, I did not send him the letter, by another member of the cell. - If I don't come back, for some reason It brings together members Abu Osama motivates his troops, - They all have their soldiers, who are tracking us down one by one. They come at 4 a.m. to the brothers' house, and they lock them up In the process, Abou Osama - You're the one who's going to go The toy is a f**** the preferred weapon of terrorists. - She is buried in an exact location. - It works ? - We haven't tried, apparently, The soldiers of Allah, perhaps This is the limit I set for myself. The production company alerts the Ministry of the Interior. The Chateauroux cell was monitored by the anti-terrorist services, Police arrest Abou About ten people in total. They are placed in detention. Their plan to attack a box I am also auditioned They are on their teeth. They want to find the the mysterious Abou Souleymane, While I thought so Abou Souleymane contacts me again I'm the only one not in prison. So he gives me a new appointment in the north of Paris. I'm finally going to meet the man Searched by all police forces in the country. But at the end of the corridor, It is still his messenger who is waiting for me. It's the same woman who, gave me the letter She gives me a new letter and it Abou Souleymane asks me to "My brother. It's just you and me. If we manage to find Otherwise, there is the sister whose and we tap in 3 places We do the same attacks Still no date or location a list of ingredients to buy It's signed Abou Souleymane, But another twist I was unmasked by other jihadists. Contacts that I had in They found out I was a journalist. I receive an explicit message. "You're done, man!" A threat. No more hidden cameras. But I want to continue to find out who is hiding The police are on his trail. They want to get their hands on him One of my sources in that in addition to the Chateauroux cell, Islamic in France. And it's unprecedented, it is only composed I found one of them, Farah. She left the group after For her, it was an electric shock and Abou Souleymane. - I met him on Facebook. We started talking to each other a lot. afterwards, there were long messages - What were you talking about? - We were talking about Syria. I had him That it hadn't worked that he had already been to Syria, sisters and brothers I really wanted this live my religion fully, have children born Abou Souleymane showers her with videos specially designed for women. - The videos that attracted me the most were the population in Syria, Iraq. I think it lasted almost We were really on the phone At that time it was a big So it was really someone where I could really confide, Like Farah, many young women are There are nearly twenty of them to maintain then by phone and messages, One of them will end up bringing the Thanks to a pipe, services French police are tracking He is supposed to have an appointment with these 2 Islamists from Brussels. But to the great surprise of the police, but her messenger, her again. The same one who gave me the Then at the Islamic School in the north of Paris. This time, the police She lives in Tremblay, France, She lives with her parents, Intelligence agents Very quickly, the police have a name, the messenger is called Ines Madani. She is 19 years old, she is 1.59 meters tall She is known to the police, because she already tried to surrender She is on file with anti-terrorism. But still no trace The police are starting to have doubts. In police custody, Farah, the young woman who will give them a decisive clue. - I told them about my doubt It was a truly gentle voice. Her voice was quite feminine, So every time I tell him: He said to me: "No, but it's normal." The investigators understood. Abou Souleymane does not exist. Ines Madani created this The great terrorist leader who worries is actually a 19 year old girl. She manipulated everyone. Before arresting him, the police to gather as much as possible In the meantime, I want to understand. Who is Ines Madani really? Christophe Boltanski is a journalist. He immersed himself in his family history. - She is extremely lonely. He is an extremely lonely child. However, she is born in There are 5 girls. The family is religious, but not excessively. Some of the sisters She's going to fail at school and she's going to For her, it's extremely guilt-inducing. She says to herself all the time This guilt and this will play a role in She spends her time in He is a child who lives locked up. During his rare outings, They met in I found this woman. She agrees to talk to me, because She saw her fall into jihadism. - She told me that she is doing jihad, But she's really into it. That means there is no force that to want to change his mind. She's still hate, especially or someone who killed 10 people, that means, she has hatred, She likes to watch. Sonia remembers well when Ines Madani, started creating the character - Once too, she is - She was pretending to be a man? it's not the same person, When we talk to her, She's still dangerous, 2 questions obsess me: How did Ines Madani become And who influenced him in his radicalization? Maybe I'll find the answer I had to negotiate for a long time and I'm not entirely reassured. Farid was sentenced to 7 years in prison, especially for apology Above all, he was the fiance of Ines Madani, before he is expelled It was just before the - How did you meet him? because personally, when I saw it, That's why that's why I accepted him in marriage I wanted to live with a modest woman. That's what attracted us. it wasn't about going to Syria, to live peacefully. In the visiting room, we discussed this, in my last sorrow, because it is there I felt she wanted more and more that she was fed up. This is what I wanted for Ines, not, that she finds herself today in During our discussion, my cameraman and I, Between words, he confides to me that he - I'm not going to lie to you I could have killed them both But since it's not my delusion... It struck me. Because what is Only problems. Like so many others in Daesh, He had entered there for business - What we call radicalization, - At that time, it was a group, they You're locked up with a terrorist, you need instruction in religion, you need something about s***, it's prison, it's system. Farid assures him if he he did not influence Ines According to him, between them, it was not - This woman called Ines I like it because with but if I wouldn't have I could have had more control over her, so that she was not Someone else would therefore have incited Ines and to join the ranks of Daesh. In spring 2016, the police finally found the one They intercepted with a group led by a Frenchman who is on site in Syria. His name is Rachid Kassim. While the Islamic State Rachid Kassim launches an appeal for &quot;May the people of Charlie perish and what is the French government.&quot; - Rachid Kassim is a native who has made so much talk about him, who will relatively late, and who, during the summer of 2016, intelligence services. Rachid Kassim will appear in a where he slit the throats of 2 prisoners Rachid Kassim was in charge via social networks, candidates To guide potential recruits Kassim publishes the lonely lion guide. For example, he recommends driving This will be the case in Nice on July 14, 2016. A notoriously unbalanced person launches his It left 86 dead and 458 injured. &quot;We come here to congratulate, In his guide, Kassim also offers A jihadist carries out his orders and kills - I just killed a police officer A month later, 2 other 19-year-old murderers slit their throats near Rouen. In his guide to the Lonely Lion, fill a vehicle with bottles and park in a busy area. This time, it's Ines Madani Since a few months, It's no longer a target However, more than ever, Problem, all the members of his cell Ines Madani then puts on that of Abou Souleymane, the virtual emir. On the Internet, she finds a news Ornella. - Abou Souleymane will seduce Ornella, will push Ornella to separate from her husband, will explain to her that her husband that she deserves better. And there is this almost s**** relationship, which will be tied between these 2 beings, without And we're talking about thousands of messages At one point, Abou Souleymane proposes to meet for marriage. and the appointment is given Ornella arrives with her child, and to the surprise of finding but a young girl also veiled. And this young girl is Ines explains that she is that he himself is detained, could not come, "He gave me this for you." Ines makes Ornella believe that Abou She must take part in an attack. - 4 days later, they go together with Ines' father's car By leaving in Paris in search they will stop first It's night, there's no one there, Ines who holds the steering wheel, you have to see them anyway, A car that spends its time to go back and turn around while there are police officers on duty. do not attract anyone's attention, This September 3rd in the evening, they stop in a tourist street. At that time, the terraces They spread diesel light a cigarette to which, in turn, will explode They are about to wreak carnage. - They leave, they do again They come back, they realize They want to start again, but there are people around, they And therefore the attack will not take place. &quot;The strange alert in the middle of Paris, a car containing was parked near "The police are also looking of an elderly girl This is Ines Madani, known to Ines Madani is now the fugitive Two days later, But Ines is still on the run. She finds refuge in the north with whom she volunteered. - She came to my house, she rang the bell, she said her prayer. At first, I saw that she was too afraid of someone. In my head, it's Ines, that she needed help, she just comes to sleep one night, I didn't understand, but when I I immediately called Still, she's mean That's what I didn't understand. I said: Ines, why She told me: &quot;No, In her head, she can go towards she is really sick and Ines leaves Sonia and will find in the southern suburbs of Paris. Since Raqqa, Rachid Kassim remains He puts pressure on him. - They will be in contact again who will tell them: "Do whatever In any case, do something." - It's not me, Rachid Kassim it is the Islamic State. the leader of all believers who speaks to you. Anti-terrorism ends up 4 days after the attack they install a device in the This is the first time that the services find themselves facing a commando The police lawyer describes the operation. - In this parking lot around the residence, who are under surveillance. who is in a small white van, for a small business quietly chatting between he only sees 2 and he loses the third, he doesn't know he turns around, he just And there, a woman who hits him on the level In a reflex gesture, he draws his weapon. There, he sees the blade leave again and there, Screams something at him He gets out of the car, he realizes that he is bleeding a lot, and he decides to leave again the information that he was injured, Ines and her accomplices flee Another intelligence agent He sets off in pursuit. - This policeman, he takes his vehicle, and he sees the women coming towards him. When he turns to Ines Madani, and he runs behind. he catches up quite quickly, she turns towards him and there, and shouts injunctions at him. He tells him : - She continues to move towards And he doesn't kill her. He shoots him with other police officers, After 4 days of tracking it's the end of Ines' crazy race Investigators assemble small Ines Madani deceived everyone. Intelligence services The Islamic State cell in Chateauroux, and me. By pretending to be Abou Souleymane, and almost caused carnage - The Internet allows this transmutation incredible, between a totally withdrawn into itself, it's the ugly duckling of silent, the key word when, that is to say, she was absent, The character she will invent for herself she is in all power, from the front and who seduces all women. In October 2019, the trial begins under close surveillance. In the dock, who tried to blow up the Xavier Nogueira, his lawyer, - She was in contact. for months with a man or between Syrian territory and France, When we told him that in reality it was a young girl of 18 years old, The police didn't believe it either. - They thought for a very long time The investigating judge himself, like ourselves, we have difficulty it was only the avatar of Ines Madani. What is extraordinary is to surrender over a very short period frenetic exchanges who all felt the same thing, a devouring passion, and which because they learned that And realize that it was enough Almost 4 years after the events, Farah, the former member of still can't believe it. - I learned that finally, and that it was finally I was ashamed of having been betrayed Ashamed of having entrusted my life to a and who played on my naivety. and finally, this girl, My trust was betrayed. Me, in this whole story. What I especially remember is that I So for me, all that is in the past. And in today's time, I'm totally out of all that. Thousands of miles away. Farid bitterly followed the disastrous - It's a girl, you shouldn't It was a matter of time, I knew She was really overwhelmed by the because she ruined her life, And yet, today, it is Ines Madani, alias Abou Souleymane, was She appealed the verdict. Recruiter Rachid Kassim Abu Osama of Chateauroux As for me, since the trial, my identity This is what a journalist teaches me She wishes to remain anonymous, - First, it was difficult you are not in the directory, you felt that it was not necessarily necessary What happened was by young men that there was a contract on your head. A contract means that anyone, could hurt you or Death threats, My life will never be the same again. It's the price to pay