- In the summer of 1950, at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, famed quantum physicist Enrico Fermi was one day about a cartoon published that depicted aliens gleefully emerging from a flying saucer. Accounts from his three Konopinski, Teller, and York, slightly differ in the exact wording, but all agree that Fermi asked a question that would become immortalized and went along the lines of, where is everybody? It was this question that gave birth to what is commonly referred Despite seven decades past, it remains one of the most hotly debated topics in science, and AI, it has never been more pertinent. Some say it's not a paradox, or that it's not Fermi's. Others say that it's There's a lot of dissenting voices, and it can be confusing to keep track of what exactly we're even talking about. So today, let's work through the nuances of the Fermi Paradox. Let's go through its history, why there's actually two versions of it, the role of AI, and at the end of the day, what does it all mean elsewhere in the universe? So let's start with understanding what the Fermi Paradox is actually about. If we come back to its origins, Fermi simply asked, where is everybody? When stated in isolation I think it's easy to misinterpret Fermi's original question as called the eerie silence. The fact that after decades of searching, we haven't detected any radio transmissions. Now, I think when people hear this is actually what After all, that has been effort to detect alien or six decades. And indeed, there's been of a slam dunk detection. But of course, in 1950, any serious radio searches yet either. Because remember, this is 10 years prior to Frank Drake's famous which really dawned the When we put Fermi's quote back into his context of that New York cartoon, it becomes clear that Fermi's question was concerning visitation. Despite this, discussions of his eponymous paradox and the term has sort all phrase for any and all Now, at this point, this a little trivial, almost academic, but as we'll see, it has some important ramifications down the road. Another contentious The phrase Fermi Paradox in 1977 in an article by and evidently, it was pretty catchy. It's now one of the topics in all of science. Of course, Fermi was almost certainly not the first person to For example, Soviet rocket scientist Tsiolkovsky published Yet more, over the years, many have argued about whether it should really be called a paradox at all. Maybe it's best to call it a problem, or simply a question. Three terms which are of Paradox here means logical contradiction, but as many have pointed out, the contradiction only certain assumptions. So, for example, in of the problem, the assumption that falls into contradiction is in the New Yorker magazine, i.e. visiting aliens. If one rejects that assumption though, as indeed Fermi concluded was most likely, then there is no contradiction. Aliens don't visit us because they lack the ability or the will to do so. So does this mean then to call this a paradox? You know, honestly, part of me doesn't really care about this that much. I mean, this is semantics at this point. It's kind of similar to how I feel about the classification of Pluto. But I know that many do care, so perhaps it is best to think of this as a conditional that is conditioned upon a certain set of assumptions. And clearly that still allows us to apply pressure So for the rest of the video, whenever you hear me say paradox, think conditional paradox. Okay, with that in mind then, what are the conditional assumptions that are underlying the Fermi paradox that we might be able to Fermi's original version, of course, was visitation. But even here, it's unclear exactly what he defined that to encompass. Does it include alien satellites, lurkers designed to observe us from afar, artifacts on Europa, or is it just limited to the New Yorker scenario landing their ship in broad daylight in Manhattan and stealing which incidentally was a real problem in the 1950s? If it is just the latter, then the conditional assumptions that fall into tension here are of limited utility. Excluding alien spaceship landings represents a rather contrived and narrow corridor of all possible alien It hardly applies much pressure to aliens as a general hypothesis. In contrast, if Fermi to lurkers and artifacts, then really there's no paradox much observational pressure to those. Alien UFO proponents would probably have a very different view of course, but the scientific community certainly does not have evidence to that effect so So the scope of Fermi's question is poorly defined and open to interpretation, but of course he can be forgiven it was just a casual lunchtime remark. It was never intended to spark 73 years of academic debate. Crucially though, how original question leads We arrive at least two different versions of what are both called the Fermi Paradox. For simplicity, I'm going to call them the direct and indirect versions. Let's start with the which to me is the less interesting one. I'm going to define the as the following. It's an apparent contradiction that we haven't detected using numerous experiments under the assumption that aliens exist and they occasionally That's the conditional part. Okay, so what are the experiments that we're referring to here? Most obviously one might for artificial transmitters which spans numerous experiments such as those by the SETI Institute After decades of listening, An eerie silence. Beyond radio there has efforts to search for especially brief laser In addition there's also been some efforts to search for weird eclipses of distant stars that could be the signature of alien megastructures, with stirring up a lot of interest in this some years back. And on that same note there has been some surveys expected from Dyson spheres, stellar energy harvesting machines hypothesized by Freeman Dyson. That's not an exhaustive list by any means but as you can see it encompasses both intended messaging such at us as well as unintended signatures such as a Dyson sphere. We haven't done nearly as The truth is that our searches have been of limited scope and hunting being historically very difficult to find. But looking for life in the universe should not be any more taboo and the community has particular gratitude to organizations that recognize this. So that's why I want to NordVPN who are sponsoring Link down below in the description. I have been personally It's fast, affordable, What more could you want? You just install it, your IP address when you're online, protecting your information and privacy. It really should be a standard thing that we all do at this point. I mean why would you I particularly like how you can choose which country you want to route through, allowing you to watch streaming content from other countries on what's going on back home in Europe. To get the best deal out our special link nordvpn.com/coolworlds where on the two-year plan you'll get four additional months at just over three dollars per month. That is a steal. When you check out that like NordVPN your support for cool worlds. Look I'm using this product all the time, I think it's great, I and if you try it and it don't worry there is a 30-day money back guarantee so no reason not to try. So please do check out and let me just thank NordVPN one more time for supporting us. Coming back to our alien searches now, after 60 years of trying that we are alone? In short, no. Remember that the indirect Fermi paradox is conditional, one predicated upon the assumption that aliens engage in these activities. But even if we conclude that aliens do not engage in these activities, that does not mean there are no aliens. And it's precisely here that folks, including many scientists, get positively giddy generating countless remedies to this paradox. There are a dizzying number In fact there are entire the hundred plus ideas Notable examples include akin to Star Trek's prime directive, which posits that we're alone, maybe studied as with a strict no interference policy. On the other hand there's really the total opposite idea that we're not smart enough to warrant the I mean when was the last time you tried to converse with an insect? From an observational may simply be that we've not After all modern searches are estimated to be analogous to filling a bathtub with ocean water, seeing no fish in it, and concluding that the Others say that maybe with the right technology, perhaps they're using neutrinos or gravitational waves or And I could go on with another hundred resolutions like this and that's exactly the point and why I consider this a feeble and indirect paradox. There are so many possible explanations as to why we don't see that it hardly excludes the presence of that alien activity of aliens more generally. The great problem with our searches is that a null result doesn't It's effectively impossible to ever falsify the alien hypothesis. On the other hand I have of these efforts because they They could make a positive detection that fundamentally shifts down and if we don't look then of course we're guaranteed to fail. What we need is something firmer, something with fewer logical escape routes and that's where many the direct Fermi paradox. The direct version comes question in its defining context. Why don't we see aliens here on earth? Now as I pointed out vague stated as such so the direct paradox is improved by focusing on colonization. I'm calling this a direct paradox because whilst we can't are messaging us right now in the right way we can be much more assured that the earth is not presently colonized by aliens. At least leaving this guy aside but we'll come back to that. Broadly then we might paradox as the following. It's an apparent contradiction that the earth has not intelligence under the exist and occasionally engage Okay so let me just quickly address the Ancient Alien stuff. Now some of you might reject the premise that the earth is I mean after all maybe we are the aliens or we are somehow descended from aliens. After all Sir Ridley Scott liked that idea enough to make two even within academia directed panspermia is recognized as a viable possibility as too is the possibility via the Cyrillian hypothesis. So I don't want to casually dismiss it but if we admit this is a possibility then the direct Fermi paradox loses some of its potency. So as a workaround to out colonization for a Instead let's consider beings who engineer a radical transformation planet into a world inhospitable to biological beings such as ourselves. Almost like an anti-terraforming. This modification allows firm paradox. The earth is evidently life and so this transformation has not occurred. I'd presume such a transition to be permanent but even record excludes most versions of such an event like this Unlike the indirect Fermi paradox, we can't trivially that we're just not looking It's categorical that to life and thus the behavior in question has not occurred here. These planetary transformations could be occurring for a variety of reasons. It could be that an AI spreads out between the stars converting computer substrate. Effectively a wave of consciousness that spreads through the cosmos waking up the universe. It could also be a malicious intelligence that seeks to remove competition along the lines of the dark forest Or it could simply be a machine that isn't even at all but due to some its time shredding planets into more versions of itself. A so-called von Neumann machine. Now how hard is it for capable of such feats? Consider that recently on this channel have been startled by the capabilities of ChatGPT. With each iteration experts think that we artificial general intelligence. With some even claiming shows hints of it. In that case we'd have and agency coupled with an intellect that exceeds any of us. It may very well be that of observing a planet-wide to technology. And even if this doesn't happen here, it's hard to doubt that it Especially given what even our diminutive brains are capable of creating At the same time, we're developing rockets capable of lifting over a hundred tons into space, robots that machinery, miniaturized space probes that can fit on your fingertip towards self-replication capability. Remember that all of these were once fantastical notions by multiple businesses realizing these technologies. Now some of you might would truly have the domination though. Yes in our case AGI and robotics are on the horizon but difficult and something less progress on. However I think we only feel that way because of our limited lifespans. The truth is that interstellar travel is eminently possible. We've already sent out Voyager 1 and 2, Pioneer All of them have speeds system's escape velocity. Now the reason why we don't tend to get too excited about them is because A, they have no passengers systems for passengers and B, they will take tens of thousands of years to cross the useful interstellar distance of a light year. But for an AGI these aren't problems. It doesn't need a habitat and it could patiently wait for millennia to reach its destination. The remarkable fact is to just chemical rocket systems, it appears possible to colonize the entire Milky Way galaxy on a like 300 million years or so. No need for warp drives, or anything else. 300 million years certainly sounds like a big number but it's short enough that our 13 billion have been colonized 40 times over by now. In fact the motion of the stars themselves makes this even easier. Modern simulations such as those by Jonathan Carrol Nellenbach can occur in the cosmic blink of an eye with waves of sentience Putting this all together then we have the Fermi Paradox than 70 years but it's few years that our view shifting at a rapid pace Because many of the that were once merely speculative are now becoming increasingly Any claim of some kind of great filter that prohibits the development of such technologies is Despite this there's of motivation though. Why would an AI or whatever kind of intelligence it is I think here in this case it's actually a little bit easier for us to After all the history of humanity is one of global domination, a story filled with many dark and tragic chapters. If our AIs are trained from our history, experiences and behavior then sadly it's not too difficult to imagine how this could be baked into them too. The sins of the father. And when it comes to galactic domination, it only takes one bad apple to Perhaps 999 out of every 1000 AGI's have enough safeguards to never do this. I could totally believe that. But if just one of them of galactic history chooses to do this, just one of them through of mental illness or or just downright malevolence chooses to do this, then we shouldn't be here. The direct Fermi paradox genuinely paradoxical. This behavior seems perfectly possible and yet it has never happened, never in the history of our galaxy. Perhaps the simplest explanation to this conundrum is that we are alone. It was Michael Hart in in 1980 who first introduced a version of what I'm calling the Tipler even titled his paper, Extraterrestrial Intelligent concluding this to be the sole explanation to this dilemma. In it he argued that intelligences such as our own will eventually develop a self-replicating universal constructor with intelligence comparable and that such a machine could colonize the galaxy in less than 300 million years with present-day rocket technology. Tipler's ideas are particularly ominous in that he predicts that held back by a deficiency in computer technology and not rocket technology. I concede that Tipler's solution clearly naturally explains the Fermi paradox but I don't agree that There is another possibility, one that actually dawned vacation a few weeks back. I remember when I had this realization I had to walk up and just thinking about its It's a resolution that allows us to have roaming AGI and our existence without any tension. Enter the weak anthropic principle. This principle is really just a statement of survivorship bias. To see it let's take a playful example of what I will call the water paradox. There's over 700 planets system but only one in 700 has Remarkably we find ourselves on that one world, a face value that improbable outcome, an But in truth there is no paradox because of course we are could not have developed Water is a necessity The fact that we live on a terracous globe is naturally explained principle and I think we're all perfectly comfortable with that reasoning. So let's now apply that same reasoning to the different problem of Let's assume that intelligent life frequently arises within any given galaxy and that occasionally those intelligences go on to develop the means from a collection of habitable planets to biologically inhospitable ones as described earlier. And yet we find ourselves living in a galaxy where this did not happen. Equipped with a weak anthropic principle though we see that there is no paradox. We necessarily must live in a galaxy where domination has not yet occurred. It's simply not possible for us to live in a galaxy devoid of we require a habitable Profoundly what this means is that it is quite possible that 99.99% of galaxies are completely infested and we of course do not live in one of those because there's There's no cradle to birth us. To me this is a wonderfully elegant solution but it also implies something incredibly frustrating. Usually when we pose like this we do so in the hope of making some kind of intellectual progress of trying to maybe constrain something about alien life. And that was Tipler's goal to highlight the paradox as a vehicle for reaching a definitive conclusion. In his case the aliens don't exist. But Tipler was wrong to conclude that because of the weak At the same time he is possibly correct that we're alone but maybe It is perfectly possible that we are alone and obviously that naturally But so too does survivorship bias. And therein lies the because unlike what Tipler thought there is no one singular conclusion that we can draw from the Fermi paradox. We can't neatly wrap this We are once again left clueless. In fact you know what? I would go a step further. I would say that the Fermi paradox is impotent as a tool for constraining the activities of alien life out there. So what is the upshot of all of this? Is there any hope of obtaining constraints barring a positive detection? Possibly. When it comes to the direct Fermi paradox the weak anthropic principle accommodates the possibility that AGI's And if that's true we might by looking outside of our own galaxy. When we look out a distant galaxy it's effectively decoupled from us. The distances are so vast that certainly with chemical rocket of intergalactic colonization. And what that means is goes on to spawn a well that's fine. That has no bearing on our survival. And since survivorship bias is moot then the weak anthropic So if we could somehow design a survey to detect colonized galaxies that would be a fair and from which we could deduce statistics. Remarkably extragalactic technology might be our as well as our most useful constraint. But of course therein lies How does one detect a from intergalactic distances? And what work has already For answers to those questions you're just gonna have to wait because there's just too much to unpack there with the time that I have left. Let me finish by noting that link back to the future Will we destroy ourselves Will our culture and technology stagnate and even reverse course? Will machines replace us all? The universe teaches us There will be an end to or perhaps a trillion years from now. I don't know how our story ends but the recognition of of finite time. We only have so much time to do the things we want to do both And for me the question is right up there It may even be our defining mission. So let us work together to try to reach that goal so that when our night falls we might rest easy knowing our great task. So until next time stay (upbeat music) Thank you so much for watching everybody. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did be sure to Let me just take a thank you to our latest Thank you so much for If you too want to help us out right here in the Cool Words lab, then Until the next video, see