Very recently scientists discovered that the most bizarre viruses - these viruses are protecting you from disease, maybe even ence, something truly new that understand. Let us dive into the You are an Ecosystem You're a living, breathing ecosystem made of up home to the human microbiome, another 40 trillion They get to live here and in return they vitamins in your gut, neutralise acid in and they take up space preventing This is a fragile balance - bacteria really and testing their boundaries. your body's ecosystem needs Viruses. At least ten trillion. They're literally everywhere in your body, At least a few trillion live in your gut, are. At least 18 billion on your skin, dozens of millions in your urinary tract. fluid surrounding your nerves and brain, While this sounds like a horrible idea at first, at least in the gut, around 97% of bizarre creatures that are specialised in and are not able to infect your cells. Instead Together these viruses make up the human is completely unique to you and that seems know them and see how they support you The Silent Mass Murderers of Your Body Inside your gut, a stealthy Lambda Phage looking for a victim. It has six legs, a long thin filled with genetic material. Each species is of bacteria and ignores all others. This versatile bacteria is numerous in your for you. But it also has a dark side - some of and feast on your resources. If there are too they can cause serious diseases. So one is to control the numbers of different Lambda has found a victim. Spider-like legs get angry syringe it violently rams its sharp bottom Once inside, the proteins disable the a factory under new management. It the victim is filled up and bursts open, But its goal is not genocide. Phages need a healthy population of bacteria more sinister tactic. Instead of killing their genome of the bacteria and goes to sleep. When the too. Until one day the viral DNA re-awakens and And here things become exciting - your its best interest that you are healthy. So some make them support your body. Some force their break down complex carbohydrates creating substances that And they alter what signals bacteria send to your We have things under control, you allergic reactions or even protect But of course, there is also a dark side to our health. Instead of helping they turn When Viruses turn Bacteria into killers Some species of bacteriophage carry When they take over their hosts, they the bacteria where they lay as a deadly gift. CTXph bacteriophage hunting them. Most harmless and billions of them may live in your they gift them the genes for the cholera their genetic lineage forever. It's Vibrio cholerae shower these toxins at the vomit large amounts of salt, which pulls out causes explosive diarrhoea and vomiting, about half of patients die. But for the carried out of the body to infect more humans, of Vibrio cholerae is now a dangerous Or the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus, which is Usually the bacteria is mostly harmless nose. It doesn't do anything useful per making it harder for hostile bacteria to quickly - it carries multiple dangerous genes, If such a modified Staphylococcus aureus it becomes extremely dangerous. One of its new like injecting your immune cells with cocaine. tuned immune system. It activates all of your They release a tsunami of cytokines, activating flooded with cells that can't fight the Your broken and confused immune cells have a which now invades, penetrating deep into your and isolate the invader, but another new dissolve the barriers and penetrate even deeper. with Staphylococcus aureus was very deadly and we But the viruses of our virome may also Cancer Killing Viruses Oncolytic viruses specialize in hunting and virus or the Reovirus, who mostly ignore your Cancer cells are broken mutants that evolve your immune system. But as they get better like fighting back viruses. A weakness to specific adaptations of cancer cells, hitting And worse for these cells, since their they can't defend themselves. They are taken Eventually the new viruses leave the cancer cell, cancer cells nearby. This death and destruction it attracts immune cells that immediately What is even more impressive, these environment that tumors create to keep viruses are like infiltrators in a city defenders left and right - helping In 2024 we don't know yet to what degree oncolytic accident. But they seem to go well together with become an important new tool to enable us to We don't know what we will learn in the are trillions of potential allies within or worse. What an exciting time to be alive. Well, that was an interesting ride! Are there any more exciting stories? Enter our friends learning concepts and ideas in a beautifully If you're like us, you're easily caught up in scrolling on social media... watching more that actually makes you feel good about your all kinds of topics like psychology, history, spanning from quick reads that take you lesson courses that you can complete in only 5 learning journey. Based on the latest science and highly interactive approach to learning the process. We can see why it's been named the best way to build a life of learning by on public transport or just feel If you want to support kurzgesagt and invest go to the link: imprintapp.com/Kurzgesagt 20% off an annual membership.