Freight transportation is an absolutely essential Maintaining the complex supply chains of raw endless amount of hustle and bustle. Millions of tons of freight are moved each But, "shipping" got its name for a reason, stuff. One of the main reasons is that it's efficient. In fact, moving a ton of goods the same distance energy than it would by train and roughly You can prove this to yourself pretty easily. Even heavy stuff is practically effortless Of course, shipping by waterway also has its It's slow (for one) and not every place We've overcome this obstacle somewhat through Canals and shipping are described in the earliest But there's another limitation more difficult Water is self-leveling. Unlike roads or rail, you can't lay water Luckily, we have a solution to this problem. It may seem simple at first glance, but there boats up and down within a river or canal. Hey I'm Grady and this is Practical Engineering. On today's episode, we're talking about The efficiency of water transportation has looks today. Nearly every major city across the globe is traffic. Waterway transportation is weaved into the So, it's no surprise that, even since thousands access by boat to areas otherwise inaccessible. But, creating waterways navigable by boats Unlike the open sea, the endless and uncluttered obstacles. The topography dips and rises, rivers and like cities, roads, and utilities impede otherwise The quintessential example of this is the narrow Isthmus saving ships the lengthy and At scale, this seems pretty straightforward Pacific. But the details of what is one of the largest are more complex. One of the most important of those details at sea level, but actually 26 meters or 85 This is due to sheer practicality. Construction of the Canal was already one Keeping boats at sea level would require cutting, the peninsula involving millions and millions infeasible. So, rather than cutting the channel deeper, on one side and lower them back down on the And we do this using locks, an ingenious and navigation on canals and waterways that otherwise The way a lock works is dead simple. And of course I have a little demonstration For a boat going up, it first enters the empty The lower gate is closed. Then water from above is allowed to fill the This is usually done through a smaller gate just cracking the upper gate open. Once the level in the lock reaches the correct and the boat can continue on its way. Going down follows the same steps in reverse. The boat enters the full lock. The upper gate is closed, and the water in Again, I'm just cracking the gate in the more sophisticated way in the real world. Once the lock is drained, the lower gate can on. I hope you see the genius of this system. It's a completely reversible lift system source of power to work... except for the One thing to notice about a lock is that even water only moves through in one . The lock drains to the lower canal. This is because... gravity. Hopefully that's obvious. But, it's important to realize that even required to raise and lower boats through Each time the lock is operated, you lose a And sometimes that matters. Canals aren't full of limitless water, and are particularly large, this could mean losing On large rivers, it's usually not enough cause a canal or reservoir to go completely So, canals that use locks need some way to how much water is lost each cycle. What if there was a way to save the water On the Panama Canal, the locks use water from water for the country. During periods of drought, water supply becomes That's why, when the canal was expanded basins. Like the locks themselves, these basins are to limit the amount of water lost each time Let me show you how this works. On my demo, instead of draining the lock into into a nearby reservoir. Then, when the time comes to fill the lock, called a side pond, to partially raise the Of course, I still need to use water from it's still less water than I would have In fact, if the water saving basin is the one third of the water. The reason, again, is gravity. Water doesn't flow uphill - it has to always To save water, you need a volume within the it to drain to and wait in the side pond, water to go within the lock. That means the best you can do with a single would otherwise be lost. But, it's possible to do better than this. One option is to have the water saving basin Imagine an infinitely large basin such that level never rises. In this case, you could drain the upper half and then use that water to fill the lower So, the area of the basin is important, with benefit. The other way we can do better is to have Notice on the diagram that the bottom two When the lock drains, each volume division below, except for the bottom two divisions That water can't be stored in a side pond the bottom of the lock. And when the lock is filled, each side pond lower. The top two divisions can't be filled from canal. It's pretty easy to see why more basins less water lost for each cycle. Of course, for both the number of ponds and to how much land is available and the expense So, you have to balance the value of saving and ongoing expenses of constructing and operating That's made a lot easier with a pretty simple water is used with side ponds versus without The new locks at the Panama Canal each use as the locks themselves. Plugging in 3 for the number of basins, and see that the new locks use only 40% of the the basins. That's pretty impressive and definitely But, it's not the only example of this. Another lock in Hannover Germany has ten basins, although the tanks are underground so they're I've been talking about freight transportation kinds of different reasons, and in the same ages of locks across the world. In fact there are a lot of canals where you They're also not the only way of moving another video. Next time you see a lock, consider where that side ponds that help save a little or a lot Hey, very quickly, I want to say that this Patreon. YouTube is not a full time gig for me and videos from materials, digital assets, equipment, Sponsors and ad revenue come and go, but the it possible to put out a video like this once If you liked this video, I hope I earned your You can also keep up with everything I'm As always, thanks so much for watching, and