On 10th November, India's 50th Chief Justice retired. His two-year tenure was the longest in a decade as Chief Justice of India. Just before his retirement, Dhananjaya Yeshwant Chandrachud said that he is troubled by the fact that how will his tenure be seen in the future? What will people say about his judgments and conduct? Did he do all that as CJI, which he wanted to do? Was he able to do something differently? What legacy is he leaving for legal profession? Justice Chandrachud's tenure in Supreme Court was 8 years. It was the time when opposition, external pressure and internal incompetence led to coma. It was the time when mainstream media put themselves on sale. It was the time when Supreme Court had to beat lower courts to do their job properly. In such a time, people had only the support of the Supreme Court for justice, to save themselves from the government's bulldozer, to preserve the constitutional values. Obviously, when Harvard educated Chandrachud became the Chief Justice of India, people were very excited that Chandrachud would now work hard for justice. Even if the other pillars of democracy have been crushed, at least the Supreme Court is there to handle it And Justice Chandrachud's record was similar. Youngest to head a high court, one of the longest CJI tenures in recent memory, son of a former CJI himself, so he knew the system very well. Along with that, he had a reputation of being a progressive and a liberal judge He has written many landmark judgments related to liberty, freedom, speech, gender, LGBT rights. In total, Justice Chandrachud has written nearly 100 judgments, more than the last 4 Chief Justices combined But still, within a few days of his retirement, his legacy is being trampled The judgments of India's rock star CJI and his PR-hungry conduct have become host to sharp opinions Supreme court lawyer, Chander Uday Singh says... Judgments of chief justice Chandrachud will be used as precedents for future, no doubt on that but he failed to hold power when the government was involved he was unable to hold the government accountable In this context, Pratap Bhanu Mehta wrote on Chief Justice Chandrachud... and said that even if Narendra Modi wanted he would not have been able to find a better Chief justice Because Chandrachur adopted the formula of Prime Minister Modi. You cannot easily stick a tag of authoritarianism or communalism on the Prime Minister because whatever the agenda is, everything is done in a democratic way, through legal means. Similarly, Justice Chandrachud also wore the uniform of liberal constitutionalism, but where the core issues of the government were concerned, he helped the government to legalize majoritarianism. Pratap Bhanu Mehta says that this pattern of Justice Chandrachud is not only present in Ayodhya verdict but is also present in other cases Weakening of Places of Worship Act, oneraising voice against the government is risky, no bail but giving communal speech comes under freedom of expression. Whether it is about Kashmir 370 or restoration of statehood for J&amp;K, Justice Chandrachud knew the majority viewpoint and the game to play And even if the order is given against electoral bonds, bulldozer justice, it is so late that the government's work is already done people are destroyed and even after that, the court did not give any harsh punishment, just slammed them, accountability is still zero. Just like the Supreme Leader, Justice Chandrachud also has a great interest in staying in the headlines. Many of his initiatives were praiseworthy, no debate Smoother SC administration, encouraging more women participation digitization, livestreaming of court proceedings, paperless hearing But at the same time, some serious questions were raised undermining judicial independence, compromise of federal structure, misuse of master of roster and find publicity for himself. In his farewell speech, Justice Chandrachud said that he is the most trolled judge in the country but his shoulders are capable of handling the weight of this criticism. In an interview published in Times of India, he said that the system he got, he is leaving it in a better condition after 2 years. Is it really so? Or will you get the same old story in the shiny wrapping paper? Let's find [subscribe and press bell icon] Schooling in Mumbai and Delhi, degree in Economics and Mathematics from St. Stephen's College. From DU Faculty of Law, he got a Bachelor of Law When Chandrachud was a student of the Delhi University Law Faculty, his father, Yeshwant Vishnu Chandrachud, became the Chief Justice of India. Now, whether to call it inspiration or nepotism, D.Y. Chandrachud decided that he would also work in the legal field like his father He got a doctor of Juridical Science from Harvard law school Then in India worked with his father-in-law, senior advocate Y.S. Chitale for a few years. Then in 1990, he started his legal career in Bombay High Court Chandrachud was a blue-eyed boy for Bombay Bar &amp; Bench. He was a constitutional expert. He used to wake up at 4 in the morning and start working. And along with that, he had his father's blessings, contacts, and influence. He became a senior advocate and Vajpayee government appointed him as the Additional Solicitor General of the Western Region. In March 2000, Chandrachud became one of the youngest High Court Judges. In 2013, he became the Chief Justice of Allahabad High Court and in May 2016, he became a Supreme Court Judge. As a judge, Chandrachud is known for three things. His liberal worldview, soft-spoken approachable behavior and legal intellect He has given many judgments for which the liberal and civil society praises him. This raised hope that when DY Chandrachud becomes CJI, he would protect civic liberties Because it has been a tradition that whenever a powerful PM is there, with full majority, our rights are violated This was true during Indira Gandhi's time and also during Narendra Modi's time. UAPA misuse in Bhima Koregaon and Delhi riots Godikaran of ED, CBI electoral bonds, bulldozer Raj, J&amp;K to be made a union territory without state permission a political and constitutional crisis in Delhi and Maharashtra... All this work was done during this government. So, could Justice Chandrachud maintain judicial independence in front of a dominating government? Did the Supreme Court run in an unbiased and constitutional manner? Did the judiciary find a solution to the constitutional issues? Were transparency and efficiency reforms introduced? we will have to find answers to these questions, if we want to understand his legacy In the role of Chief Justice of India, Chandrachud's entry is like a hero. No debate. On 25th November, 2022, they accept the same-sex marriage petition. On the same day, dismisses the NIA's appeal which challenged the bail of Anand Teltumbde On 28th November, demands a response from the central and state governments on the petition of free sanitary pads for girls in government schools. strong chief justice of India gives clear message and raises the expectations. But this was just the beginning this was just the entry In Bollywood movies, the hero's entry is powerful but near the interval, steam runs out Now, here too, something similar happens with our main character. The entry is powerful but he starts to turn. And the first chapter of this turning is on an important topic ... a structural topic and that is the collegium system. Collegium is a group of senior judges who are in charge of judicial appointments and transfers. High Court Collegium has two senior judges and Chief Justice of High court Supreme Court Collegium has CJI, and two senior most judges, sometimes five too suppose a vacancy in High court judge position is to be filled then high court collegium makes best candidates list and sends to CM CM sends this file to union law minister, through state governor detailed background check is done in 4 months though intelligence bureau Then this file is given to Supreme Court Collegium. SC finalizes the name and gives it to the Law Minister. Then final approval and swearing in is done. Law Minister can reject the recommendation giving specific reasons to send the file back to Supreme Court Collegium. But, if Supreme Court Collegium reselects the same name and sends it to the law minister. Then within 4 weeks, the government has to approve the appointment, whether liked it or not So, the final say is with the collegium, not with the government. This is the main fundamental right of judicial independence. It was expected that Justice Chandrachud will maintain and improve this system As soon as he became CJI, Chief Justice Chandrachud started listening to a petition related to the independence of the collegium. The petition was that the central government is avoiding appointments even after the re-selection by the collegium, on purpose Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul listened to the hearing. Justice Kaul gave a sharp comment on Modi government that they should follow the timelines. Suspicion of third party interference and selective appointments... there were tensions between collegium and Modi govt before also It seemed Justice Kaul would make decisive judgment ensuring judicial independence 5 Dec, 2022 the case was lusted... but suddenly, the case is deleted from the listing. Justice Kaul was shocked and said that he has not deleted the case. Chief Justice Chandrachud was more informed about this matter and said that some things are better left unsaid It means that as soon as it seemed that a decisive decision would come which would defend the independence of the collegium, the case was deleted from the listing. Why did this happen? journalist Sourav Das has written a great piece on the legacy of Chandrachud in The caravan. When Sourav Das talked to a retired Supreme Court Justice about this case, the judge said that at that time Chief Justice Chandrachud was under immense pressure from central government, which he could not resist, is being alleged Chief Justice of India was taking pre-approval from the government for appointments. This is a very serious allegation Chief Justice of India came under the pressure of the government and undermined the independence of the collegium. The favorite candidates of the government were appointed. If such a system is really being formed, then only the judges of the pro-government, the judges that the government wants, will be appointed. Constitution and judicial independence can be said bye bye to Did the Chief Justice of India work to implement the judicial independence as he mentions it in his speeches? We don't know what was the intention of the Chief Justice of India as the head of the collegium. Judges and senior advocates who talk about selective appointment and pre-approval ... you will find many examples Chandrachud's rhetoric is based on judicial independence but if you look at the actions of the collegium, a dangerous precedent is being set by which independent judges will gradually disappear. This is a part of their legacy for Justice Chandrachud Chief Justice of India has the power to select judges for a case. Because of this, Chief Justice of India is also called Master of Roster. According to the rules of the Supreme Court, these cases are distributed on the basis of seniority and similar cases. Expectation was that D Y Chandrachud will play the role of Master of Roster fairly and balanced But this hope was just a hope. Justice Bela Trivedi In 2002, at the time of Gujarat Anti-Muslim Riots, Bela Trivedi was in the role of Law Secretary of Chief Minister Modi. Today, Justice Trivedi is a judge of the Supreme Court and is quite famous for their strict behavior. so strict in giving bail that Supreme Court advocates tell Sourav Das... a joke in the Lawyer Circuit that if an opposition leader dies in jail then Justice Trivedi will not give bail to his dead body. A retired Supreme Court judge said that he has worked with many judges but has not seen a pro-government and ultra-conservative justice like her And this same Justice Trivedi has been getting politically sensitive cases again and again and has been giving pro-government judgments as well. There are many examples. Take the bail plea of Umar Khalid, Bheema Koregaon accused Mahesh Raut case the ED case of DMK leader Senthil Balaji and Congress leader DK Sivakumar... all these instances The surprising thing is that such politically sensitive cases are withdrawn from other senior Supreme Court judges and assigned to Justice Trivedi. Bail application of Umar Khalid, Mahesh Raut Justice Aniruddha Bose was available to hear the case and he had not recused from hearing Despite that the cases were reassigned to Justice Trivedi Fakiri is such that political prisoners have not got bail even if the case has not started since years And politically sensitive cases are important in themselves, but they are also a test for a judiciary, that is the judiciary working independently. Remember, justice should not only be done, it should be seen as being done. But it was not seen, it was seen to be under pressure. In Chief Justice Chandrachur's speeches, bail is a rule, jail is an exception. But in actions, scene is reversed A problematic precedent has been set in his term The judge who gives no bail, be given a hearing in politically sensitive cases. That is the legacy Chief Justice Chandrachud gave hearing in many cases. Was he able to implement the ideals? To reduce the distance between words and action? To some extent. But, could have done more. Chief Justice of India, Chandrachud, heard the cases of Royalty on Minerals and Industrial Alcohol Regulation. Both were cases on federalism. In both the cases, Justice Chandrachud authored the majority opinion, that is, the final judgment. And, the principle of fiscal federalism was called the unbreakable part of federalism and the state's taxation powers were defended. It was a great judgement. Our country is a quasi-federal nation... helped to maintain it. But when it comes to the same federalism, when it comes to Kashmir and Delhi, then that concept is scattered somewhere In the case of Article 370, Chief Justice Chandrachud wrote the majority opinion and decided that the Centre has the power to remove Article 370. On top of that, the Centre has the power to downgrade Jammu and Kashmir state to make it a Union Territory without asking the Assembly. When asked how it is constituional to take away statehood, Chief Justice Chandrachud did not give a proper answer. He just accepted the assurance of the Union Government that at some point in future, statehood will be restored someone has stolen something, thief is caught, the thief is being told, look, you have stolen the phone, return it sometime...when you get time In the case of Delhi, Chief Justice of India, Chandrachud says that the elected government should have powers. It's a good thing. LG should not have powers because LG has not been appointed or elected. But then in the Para 95 of the Judgment, in Para 164, this loophole is put in that if the parliament wants, if the central government wants, then pass such a law which can increase the power of LG. BJP government understood that this is an advantage. So, they passed such a law very soon. And the elected government lost its power. In the case of Maharashtra political crisis, it was said that the trust vote conducted by the BJP appointed governor has no legal basis. Supreme Court has agreed to this. On the basis of the trust vote, Uddhav Thackeray gave his resignation. But, even after accepting that it is illegal, illegitimate, not required, whatever you say, court did not consider it right to restore the government of Thackeray It kept the Shinde government, which was formed on an unconstitutional basis. Like saying to Thackeray, your phone was stolen, so wrong, so bad... but now it is stolen... leave it, Don't go after it. Kashmir, Delhi, Maharashtra, all three cases judgments were not able to match the rhetoric of federalism and constitutionalism This contradiction is seen in many cases. In case of electoral bonds, numbers were revealed But Quid pro quo ... Court monitored investigation was not allowed Chandigarh mayoral election, intervened on time.. Openly robbery of democracy was stopped, but no action on the corrupt election officer The robbery was caught and thief free The court denied to conduct a court monitored probe in the Adani stock manipulation case. Big talk in lectures, speeches... But for actual investigation, punishment, bail, and statehood, people just kept waiting. Chandrachud was also an important part of the Supreme Court bench which gave a judgement on the Babri Masjid dispute. The legal technicalities of that case you can put aside, there are many questions on that too. But what was need to say was that he got inspiration from his God to solve the case. Imagine if a Muslim judge says that he got inspiration from Allah and after that the same judge writes judgment in favour of the Waqf Board. The country will be on fire. But this is exactly what Justice Chandrachud did and it became totally acceptable whereas legal experts say that this is a dirty joke on the constitution. It is doubtful that the long distance between the words and actions of Justice Chandrachud is it deliberate? Putting a loophole in the judgments, breaking someone's statement, was it a formula to balance? Justice Chandrachud's legacy of taking on the government is now clear to you. But even outside the courtroom, a serious question has been raised about his conduct. Senior Advocate Rajeev Dhavan asks, that not only judgment, Justice Chandrachud is very interested in celebrating himself. Look at the most famous photo. In the history of the Supreme Court, the most infamous photo is this one. The five judges of the Supreme Court, Together, immediately after the judgment of the Babri case judgment, this picture was taken behind the Supreme Court's Court No. Judges don't celebrate their judgments. This has been the precedent. But now, maybe, all this is changing. Neither does Chief Justice invite PM to his home to celebrate religious festival with camera crew. Or, is he so close to the system? Chief justice of India bowing down to home minister who is younger in age, and in protocol Will Chief Justice of India behave like this in future? Has Justice Chandrachud left this legacy? A Supreme Court that does not check and balance the government, but follows the government's instructions? Justice Chandrachud says that he has left the system in a better condition in the last 2 years But when Justice Chandrachud became CJI, there were 70,000 cases pending in the Supreme Court. Today that number is 83,000. 2 years ago, there were 59 lakh pending cases in the High Courts. Today, there are 62 lakh pending cases It is a complicated matter to decide the legacy of a CJI. We understand this. Different perspectives are applied. Different answers will be found You will see the judgment, jurisprudence, administrative decision, collegium, master and roster. Legacy can be judged from every aspect. Many times, the impact of a CJI's judgment and administrative actions is known after years. But one thing is clear, that CJI's legacy will be tested on actions more than on rhetoric. His calm, approachable behaviour, bringing the SBI to taking out the data of electoral bonds before the deadline judgement on fiscal federalism, such judgments will be praised. But in Judiciary, more than digitization and transparency, the independence of the collegium, how it was compromised, how the administrative power of the Master of Roster was misused, or the hypocrisy in the Kashmir case, the loopholes in the case of Maharashtra and Delhi, all these things will be seen. Why after 2 years Umar Khalid is in jail, when supreme court said it will take 2 mins to hear the case The case never started and Umar Khali never got bail History books will ask what was missing in constitution that judge had to take inspiration from God in Babri verdict Why did he have to invite PM Modi to his home, and in camera presence? In Sourav Das's Caravan artcle, it is written that D.Y. Chandrachud's legacy will be less for his high ideals and more for this precedent that how the judiciary submitted itself in front of the executive power, that is, in front of the government, and bowed its head. It is possible that in the future, the future Chief Justice of India will be more lenient towards the government. I am not denying this But the glowing legacy that Justice Chandrachud wants, the glory he wants, he does not deserve that. No debate on that.