Morocco. This kingdom forged from Arab, offers us the exotic magic of the Orient It's hard to resist as the country's enchanting light and the people we're going to meet Abdullah, will initiate us The origins of this age-old spice It's said to have many virtues, Julie is a nurse. She lives in a valley of the High Atlas, five hours of hard driving This young French woman in order to care Ali and L'Ho, guides in the Sahara, Following the traces they are carrying on the tradition that once traveled the South of Morocco. What I like most about the desert When you walk for weeks on end, you get a feeling a feeling The rugged range of Jbel Saghro is a stunning link A land where you don't expect A voyage that only begins there Long ago, to protect their goods Their villages blend in as if they were trying and their soil has become the cradle They say that saffron by a tribe traveling Now, 600 years after being driven out their descendants have settled Our great-grandparents It's part of us. We've been growing it for ages. We've all grown up with it. We've always grown it here in Taliouine. In other places, Saffron is an honored guest a guest who arrives only in October. Life in Tizgui, follows the rhythm of saffron. For Abdullah and his family, It flowers for only 15 days a year, but from the picking it demands painstaking work. Everything about this crop [Arabic spoken audio] We get up at 5:00 in the morning. We do our prayers then we have breakfast We get to our saffron fields at daybreak, and we have to finish our work It's 400 meters where the saffron fields are located. The steep trail One has to belong to this land It's a rough road, They have no choice. The road isn't paved, It's a 45-minute walk uphill all the way. It's a very narrow trail, The trail is washed out in spots We repair it every time, There's a storm and that's it. Just this year, Caught by the first rays of the sun these intrepid saffron growers run a race against time Even if we have to get up early, We're happy because we're eager to see all the saffron We can't wait to get out If our field is flourishing, we're happy. When the flower opens the filaments scatter and they're lost. Here, you can see that in the morning, That's why we come so early. Every morning, that contain the precious strands. An ephemeral miracle, and the villagers are quite grateful This is a very good year, and we hope We have rich soil here. Saffron grows well, There's a lot of humidity Far from the bustling cities, this is how life goes on who are perfectly in harmony The harvest follows the rhythm of the sun, and they have to stop picking During the saffron season, every minute of work counts Even Saida, Abdullah's daughter, attends school, but after class, [Arabic spoken audio] Saffron is vital to us That and a few animals we raise, but saffron It's gold, thanks be to God. [Arabic spoken audio] Even when you get good saffron, compared to the work Your eyes, hands, and legs all get tired. When you stay seated like this afterward, you can't walk, It's really strenuous. You work night and day right up till the end, You can't put things off. It has a very short lifespan. If you let it go for two days, it's lost. It's just one month's work a year, After a month of intense activity, Abdullah is ready Okay, here I go. May God protect us. Pray for me. Ahmed, what should I bring back for you? Calm down now, I have to go. -Saida, what do you want? What else? -Shoes. God willing, Bye now. Rashida, come kiss my hand. What should I bring back for you? Bring back clothes for her too. Okay, mama, I'm going. Take care of the children. I won't be gone long, God willing. May God protect you. This small saffron grower from Tizgui not just in the local cooperatives he'll go well beyond the Sirwa region. From village to village, Abdullah takes us along when he is a door-to-door salesman. It's hard. I have to make these long trips, You're free in this kind of work. You work for yourself, from your own home, [Arabic spoken audio]. How long will you be gone this time? I'll be away for a month, I'm going to Ouarzazate, Tinghir and Tiznit. I sell my saffron in all those towns. People buy my saffron mainly in August when you have all the weddings We already knew and now it's been proven. People are using it more and more. Now we know that it's really good for you. The saffron harvested in the autumn is sold at different times It keeps for a long time When Abdullah needs money, [Arabic spoken audio] Here we go. Let's have a look, is it pure saffron? Of course, it is. Top quality. It comes from my village, I don't buy it in the souk. Okay, I'll take five grams. Look at it, just take a whiff. -Great. Homegrown good. Even though it's this year's, Nothing is more delicate than the scales. The scales have to be precise. You see, they're accurate. Good. -That'll do it? That smells good. You're right, It's good for colds and teas. It's good for what ails you. Yes, it's good for everything. -It's even good for death. [Arabic spoken audio] The rising demand for this spice and at the same time, raised Abdullah's hopes of improving By selling my saffron, some sugar, tea, and flour. That's how it is with saffron. Saffron is money. Take a look. It's a beautiful color. -How much is it? I'll take four grams. I used to sell it for two, but the price has gone way up. That's expensive. No, it's not expensive. If you know what goes into it, This is good saffron. I use it a lot. I put it in my tea to give it an aroma, I use it for my children. I make them herbal tea with it [Arabic spoken audio] Living in a city This is where my children are growing up. This is our life. We have to grow saffron and apples. That's how it is. It's the Earth, it feeds us. At the end of this voyage, the simple freedom is a natural gift and immensity The Tessaout, this valley in the High Atlas Mountains, Even at the beginning of the 20th century, it was not known It seems as if the modern world had stopped on the threshold Julie, 24, is a nurse. She left her life in the city of Lyon, to spend a year in Morocco. Along with Khadija, her interpreter, she takes care A minibus has set out during the night to pick up the two women and take them [Foreign spoken audio] We work together. She teaches me about everyday life here. This headscarf is part of that. She's my guide. She's my interpreter and my guide. They cover a vast area. Julie and Khadija work in 14 villages Getting there This track is very long. It stops in Megdaz. From there on, there's no more road. We feel like of the planet. It seems really far away from everything. Then we wonder, how is it possible that there are people We think, &quot;My God, it's almost unnatural.&quot; Mohammed has also come a long way He's a farmer and lives in Ichebaken, It's a difficult trip, so he put it off Now he has to do it. [Arabic spoken audio] It took him four hours How long has he had these stomach pains? It's been a month now. Here you have the everyday gestures but here they take a lot longer We don't have all the equipment No doubt about it, a different rhythm. Not much comes into this valley. Only a few of the local drivers They are the only link and the inhabitants This dispensary was opened in 2002 Nurses come here to work for a year. They provide basic medical care We take care of the children, and the pediatric problems Digestive infections, ear, nose, There are family planning programs, along with extensive pregnancy care That happens a lot. We're also a presence for them. We've realized that the commitment and values are much more important here Just being here with them reassures them. It means a lot to them. Time is quite elastic here, so you let yourself go with it It's the rhythm here There's no way to be stressed You learn to make do with what you have. The most important thing in Tessaout the stream of the same name. It not only irrigates the crops, but it also serves It's a beautiful valley, especially when it snows. However, in the spring, the water Sometimes the river overflows However, we accept that because here, water is essential, and we respect water The Tessaout is a magnificent region. It has a lot of water. We lead very simple lives, I don't like towns too much. Too much noise, It's not for me. If they would improve the roads here, We go along with Julie and Khadija 10 kilometers down from the dispensary, Most of the time, conditions permitting. We can't really make long-term projects because we never know If we'll be able to make it back, if it's going to rain, We have to live in the present moment [Arabic spoken audio] Their culture is very strong. Their family ties as well. The family is very important. They like living here. They don't want to leave. From my experience, I can say these people and they want to stay. [Arabic spoken audio] Life is hard here. The people, It's hard They're always ready to laugh. You want to feel sorry for them because we couldn't imagine but in fact, I adapted to life here pretty quickly. I think that later when I go back, Yet I know full well that I'm only here for a certain time and to live as fully as I can, It's good that it all has a beginning Julie has surely found here the essence An authentic bond with these men is so different from ours. Now we head south Towards the land in both space and time. A harsh land where the buffeting winds and the pitiless sun Here we're on the outskirts of the Sahara. Halfway between the plains of Tafilalet This region is the home of a myth. The myth of the great caravans. Laden with gold, salt, and other riches, they would ply the routes between Morocco, The caravans and thus created vital links Now, what remains of them that lingers in our memories, Ali and L'Ho are guides in the Sahara. They are old-hands One and a half months, cut off from the outside world. The two men have been traveling They're taking their caravan We're going to explore a trail with the help of God. L'Ho and I have been desert guides We have experience We're trying to find wells. If we can find water, we'll be able The caravans used to transport dates There were no cars. It was done by camels. In the old days, they would carry a little gold It was all carried by caravans. They also carried salt. Right, and salt too. They carried hanaa. They used to carry a lot of hanaa. Now, there are no more caravans. That's all finished. No compass, no GPS. They make their way to the Draa Valley For several centuries, the columns of camels but the traces of their passage [Arabic spoken audio] We'll be right back. We're going to try to find the trail. Keep an eye on the camels. They made this pile of stones They're all over the Nador region, all the way to Sakia El Hamra, [Arabic spoken audio] We're on the right track. It's the trail This is a very old trail. These piles of stones, these cairns, They marked the trail to Tantan, and even into Mauritania. [Arabic spoken audio] I like the city from time to time but it's in the desert I feel part of a whole. I really feel my soul. I'm at one with nature I feel a presence in this vast wilderness, Out here my thoughts become focused the family, and especially my children. I feel at peace. The desert calms the soul and the mind. After more than ten days of traveling, It's vital for both the men Wells used to dot the length every 20 to 30 kilometers, but some have dried up [Arabic spoken audio] They can go 15 days without water, When water is available, they can hold out for 15 days and they'll drink What I like most about the desert When you walk for weeks on end, you get a feeling a feeling These important commercial roots in the middle of the desert. That golden age is now past, are still a stopover Ali and L'Ho to meet Baba Jalil, guardian of the past. [Arabic spoken audio] We've come a long way and we'd like to spend Come in, welcome. He is a descendant of a caravaneer. He's also the living memory of this city. Tamegroute is home to a treasure. A library of thousands of books collected, a theologian named Mohammed ibn Nasir. He used the caravans and make this city a center of learning It was around 1,000 something Hijra, Mohammed ibn Nasir taught theology, to more than 1,400 students. He brought books on philosophy, grammar, medicine, astrology, Our library's oldest book 1063 of your calendar. It comes from Cordoba and Andalusia. These works were written by scholars and Sidi Mohammed ibn Nasir to be available to everyone, They used to say, &quot;May God &quot;of culture, and a haven of peace Ali and L'Ho know that to open the trail the caravan is going to have to face The trail exists. Animals used to take it frequently, but Ali and L'Ho [Arabic spoken audio] Hi there. -Are you from around here? -Do you know the trails around here? We'd like to go to Tizi and Tiflet. I think that we're on the right path, Maybe you could show us Sure, I can help you out. Muadi, the nomad, He goes off to leave his motorcycle and will hook up with the caravan [Arabic spoken audio] When you set out, your goal is to arrive whatever the cost. It gets pretty tricky sometimes, but we've decided In spite of the heat and the difficulties, Otherwise, A whole world would disappear. We have to resist This is our history and we have to keep it alive and future generations, God willing. Muadi, do you know the people Yes, it was the Balu family They didn't have any blankets. They'd just cover up and they'd eat a bit of brown bread. Emalu would take shelter up there. That's where they'd keep the dromedaries. A little further up and eat on his own. [Arabic spoken audio] Look, a jackal did this. Did you see it? [Arabic spoken audio] To catch the jackal, Then when the jackal digs it, he gets caught. Hey Muadi, which trail do we take? The one on the right. [Arabic spoken audio] Ali, please go check with him. I'm telling you, it's okay. No, Ali's going to check it out with you. We're not going any further Go all the way to the end to check. You can make it through. Other caravans have come through before us Here we're coming Muadi knows the trail well. He says if we don't take it, we'll have to make a long detour We'll have to tighten up the loads. Each one leads his dromedary but still, it's extremely rocky. [Arabic spoken audio] The hard thing in the desert is having the responsibility when you're reopening When there's a storm, and when you're at the head of the caravan You really have to back each other up We may know the region very well, we always have to be very alert. Sometimes it's hard but I wouldn't change my life [Arabic spoken audio] Take to the road. Make the journey. Strike out to discover new lands, and everything else The long story of the caravans heading towards new horizons.