Thank you very much! How you guys doing tonight? Pretty good?! It's great to be here! Let me tell you why I became a comedian and that's because i didn't do very good in school.. I think I got different books than everybody else... because I don't remember nothing. I suck at math! And if you're bad at math you can't get a cool job later on in life. If it wasn't for math I'd be the funniest guy at NASA! Yeah but that's an important part of the job there. They don't want your ball parking it at NASA you know. You can't be like: Yeah screw it! It'll make it, no. They would have been showing up to my cubicle &quot;Professor Eddie&quot; &quot;How much fuel is it going to take to put the shuttle in orbit&quot; Might have been like: Okay! Okay how many are going up? Six people? Okay so six people in the shuttle. All right. Okay You said six right? Okay so put six over pi. Times some type of root. I got: fill it up. What'd you guys get? I was hanging out with my friend Rachel the other day. She's four! And uh I like hanging out with Rachel. She's fun to hang out with. We went and saw the movie 101 Dalmatians right? 101 Dalmatians. Halfway through the movie this guy behind me was like: &quot;Man there must be like 70 dogs in this!&quot; I was like yeah I'm bad at math too so I'm not going to bust you on that. But.. You might want to take a look at your ticket a stub. I said it all latin like that. I'm glad I got a job where i can tell jokes and get paid for it. Because I was not thriving in the workplace before... No. I used to get written up a lot or have to sign something at the end of a meeting. Yeah and I work through a temporary agency. You ever done that before? You ever worked as a temp? That's a great job! Because you can mess up a lot of stuff and the only thing they can say to you is: &quot;Hey, you really messed up a lot of stuff.&quot; Like, yeah I guess I did! Can you sign my time card? All the jobs I got fired from are really bad jobs too and my biggest regret is, every job I got fired from I never caused a scene! and if you get fired. Especially from a bad job! You should go off okay! Because Burger King does not talk to Mcdonald's alright! There's no big whopper summit! That's why, if I ever have to get another job again, this is what i'm going to do. That day, I'm going to go to work with a pocket full of glitter. And when my boss fires me I'll be like: &quot;Oh sorry it didn't work out&quot; *glitter* And I'm gonna throw it right in his face. Because, have you ever tried to get glitter off before? It's tough as hell! Isn't it ladies?! I might be fired but he still has to walk around work the rest of the day. &quot;Man, what'd you do at lunch? Blow a clown? Look at you!&quot; Being a comic, I get to travel quite a bit. Which is really fun and Montreal has been a great experience uh Earlier this year I got to go to Maui. Which was very fun. I went snorkeling. My friend was like: &quot;Let's go scuba diving!&quot; And i was like: Let's not! He was like: &quot;Why not?&quot; It's like, because I don't think i should be in charge of my own air that's why! You haven't noticed? I'm not really good with the weights and the measures. You have to mix your air. Not me! I'd be down there pff too much! and then, your eye pops out of your head! And that would suck. Because that mask will catch your eye and your other eye would be like: &quot;What the hell? Is that my eye?!&quot; Anyways, on the boat, on the way over, we saw dolphins swimming with the boat and that was cool because I'd never seen dolphins before. But this lady, starts giving out all this dolphin information. Nobody asked, you know. A second ago, she was a guest. Now she's got her own show on the animal planet.. And I hate that you know why? Because when somebody sees something on TV they regurgitate it, like they're an expert. You know what happens is I believe it, okay and then I go and tell people as if I were an expert. But I never run into another one of me. I always run into a marine biologist or somebody like that. Yeah and they're like: You're full of crap! Oh my god! I guess I'll check my notes but uh pretty sure.. Anyway she said: &quot;Did you know that dolphins have the exact same parenting skills that humans do?&quot; and i was like: Is that good? Like, what does that mean? Next time I'm sitting at a bus station I'll get to see a dolphin screaming at his kid too? &quot;Stop putting things in your blowhole!&quot; &quot;How many times, do i have to tell you? weheeee weheee weheeee ah ah no no no&quot; I don't read I mean i can read. I uh, I read a lot yeah I just choose not to. I'd rather have others tell me the story, you know.? But the other day, I found myself going through a copy of newsweek or mad magazine. I can't remember what it was. And there was an article about the panda. Did you know, the panda is going extinct? STILL! I don't even care anymore. Ever since I was in the third grade, every year I've had to hear about how we're losing pandas. I am numb to it. Help yourself panda! huh!? Maybe the panda wants to die! You ever thought about that? Have you ever seen a panda? It don't look like the most fired up creature in the forest does it? He always looks like he's been huffing paint out of a bag all night. Dark circles under his eyes!