Hey! Welcome to a new Project Kamp update! In the previous video, you could see us building this new compost toilet. But, one thing we didn't finish was the roof... Because, we wanted to try something new and experimental, So, in this video, we're going to use We're gonna collect five hundred of them. We've already tried a few tests to see how we can make it work. Because, it's kind of a new technique we're sort of trying to develop. So, we're not sure how it's gonna go, Let's find out. The video itself is sponsored by Surfshark, an online VPN. We use this advertisements to make sure we can fund our tractor. But, more about that later! Now, we are gonna start the week, Let's go! - So, we were asked by our dear friend and neighbor Jorge to go We were just about to leave the land right now! - So, we're getting all this corn, stripping it down, They're gonna bring it to a mill, to mill it into flour to make bread. Some of it is gonna go to his animals to feed them. - Hello corn, my name is Ingrid! Can I undress you? Yes, you can! - I have the red one! - It represents for happiness in your marriage! So, you kind of ruined it now by taking off the leaves... Maybe. How did you do it? How did you get it on to the truck? - Ok, ok. I'll help you. Are we done now? Done. Lots of corn! - What time? Snack time! After the hard work, we had a snack from the neighbors, They also let us pick up some fruit for the people at the Kamp. So, we are done with the harvesting, This is all the things we take back after harvesting some corn! - Nice! So, that was the corn picking for this year. It's really nice to see the work land full of fruit trees from Jorge! So much work went into this already! It makes us realize we still have a lot of work ahead on our land... We could really use a tractor to take on this bigger landwork... To get that, we really need to talk about Surfshark. It's a virtual private network, also called a VPN. It allows you to browse on the Internet safely. You can encrypt your data. You can change your IP address, This is cool, because most of the people here come They can't always access the same content So, for instance, I have a pretty cool documentary about But, you can only watch it if you're in the Netherlands... So, with a VPN, you could say: Even though you are in Portugal! This also happens on other platforms, like for instance, Netflix. If people here want a show or movie from their own country, But then, with a VPN, they can go to their own country It can also be useful to provide an extra layer of privacy for sensitive information, If you work in a team and you need to share data a lot Especially if you're working remotely, connected to a sketchy public Wi-Fi. Which we used to do a lot in the early days... Overall, Surfshark is easy to use! It accepts an unlimited amount of devices! And, it's compatible with all operating systems! So, its a useful tool, and we figured it might be useful for you as well. If you use this code, you can get a discount The link is in the description below You can just give it a try, because if you don't like it, So what about the tractor? Now, if you can do four advertisements like this, we can buy ourselves a tractor... We already did one before! Now, we did another one. So, we have two more left. If we manage to integrate this, So, thank you guys very much for watching these videos! It helps a lot! And also, if you don't like the advertisements, There you can see the video without ads, Which is also a good deal! Anyway, that was it for now! We are gonna finally get started on the roof. - Ok, so, the structure of the toilet has been completed. But, the roof has not been covered yet, Because, all the small things and also the rain, So, we need to cover the roof with something. We are always struggling to find roof options. Around here, you find corrugated sheets or ceramic roof tiles. But, that's kind of it! We'd like to try and find other options of reused materials. We already made one with recycled plastic that kind of does the job. And now, we will try an even more local method: Aluminum cans, that we have been collecting since the beginning of the season. So, the first step is to clean them. After that, take the top and bottom of the can off. For that I made a tool back in Hong Kong, that does the job way faster. And now, we just cut a straight line the can in the middle of the can. Now, you get a piece of sheet metal! So, when we go out to look for examples where people use There are different examples. The most simple way is that people There are some problems, because when you staple it, Also, when there is wind it creates a lot of noise. The most stable example is when people fold it into this shape That way, the water won't go in from the sides so easily. But still, from the top the water might 'sneak' through... So, that's why we come to this solution, When we put it on to each other, they click on the sides And then, we used this little tap from the can to press it down So, I think this will be the direction we are going to go in! So, to create a shingle from this, to this, it takes a few steps. The first step is to cut a shape. Since we have to create a few hundred of these shingles, We have to create a mold. There's one shingle! After measuring the size of the roof, - What are you doing right now? I'm making a poster to get cans from the neighbors. So, I made a small poster and ask for the local cafes Just after some weeks: We are going to pick up some cans from the neighbors. There is a really nice cafe here and the owner, Let's go and see what's inside! So, here is our catch! This is unique one! We don't see it very often. Here are the cans. We already have enough cans for the roof. We noticed they come in these two sizes usually. To accommodate them in the design of the roof... We need to fold them in a way that different sizes of cans You can imagine that in a process We made this kind of prototype We'll see if the water actually come through from the back, so... I think the results seem to be promising! OK, I think it's safe to say that the water Let's go to the big one! So, the corners have been trimmed. The next step is folding them halfway with Here we go! So, they have been folded halfway. But, there's still one more step... We need to fold it all the way back, For this part, I think we gather everyone Let's go! So, here is the roof of the new toilet. Before we install tiles, we need to put on It's kind of for the tiles to grab on to the roof. Let's do it! Yes, it's finished! It's done! - The first thing in the morning and I just woke up! Amazing! - You have to record your face Gui right now! Yeah! Turn the camera around! After so many people drinking, having so many days - So, there's the roof! This is a completely new kind of roof design. An experiment to try and find more recycled materials to work with. If you want to download the drawings of the mold, Click the link in the description below, Now, we need to wait until rain comes, Sometimes things take time before Just like a few years ago, we planted this young peach tree when we arrived here. - We planted it about 2 and a half to 3 years ago? We have our trees and bushes, so it's time to start planting. Last year, it had a few fruits, It was even falling into the pathway that we have. About half of the fruits were already eaten by the people, So, it's time to collect them all, - You can see the ants are just going into defensive mode. &quot;Gather everything! It's your last chance!&quot; - This is the greatest harvest of this tree. Still quite some juicy peaches to go... - Alright, so, that was it for this video! Thanks for watching! This is actually not a peach... It's a pear, because the peaches got eaten very fast, But, anyway, if you already want to see the next video, You can see it one week ahead, Or not, and we'll just see you here on YouTube Thanks for watching. Bye!