So this is something I have so you're seeing it for the first time. It's 26,000 square feet. That one has the big boy toys in it. - This whole thing? I'm not doing that. There's a line I have. - Everything that I've been doing for like the last five or six years have been leading up to this. Every single brand deal, every this is what it's all building up to. - [Gerald] Thanks to Amaran Well, we're back doing another I don't know if this there's a lot of junk on the table, but we are in JerryRigEverything's studio. - That is me. You got a hot spot on your head there when you walked past that light. - The lighting, it's a I think you'll enjoy it. - Interesting is a but you know what? I'm probably gonna make fun of - It does. the channel does well, I like your content and so that's my disclaimer to to your beloved Zack over here. I admit that it works well - Thank you. Now let the roasting begin. - And of course we've got Patrick Tomasso operating the mobile camera today. What are you running - [Patrick] FX30 with 10-20mm as always. - You've got two cameras I think this is a smart way to do it. So top one is obviously for the overhead and then down here we These displays, do they just sort of just, any kind of random old display or whatever. - This one's probably like 15 years old and this one's probably six years old. But yeah, just anything - Now you might run into issues with these if you try to shoot in because old monitors don't accept like, you know, film frame rates. But it looks like that's not a problem for Mr. 59.94 60p video over here. - Everything is 60 frames. So I have a Panasonic GH6, 5K60 frames a second. Just gives me the most data to work with when I'm like zooming in - Were you at 60 before you got the GH6? - I was. - GH5 and GH4 were always 4K60. - Alright, I don't think you You just said you like - I just, bigger numbers are - He's not wrong. I thought you were gonna tell me something like, well when I film screens at 60, the refresh rate matches up better and. - No. by the time you're working with em. (both laughing) - They're not on long - When I film screens. What were you working on here? Toothbrush? - So that is a gold with a pen is a gold-plated toothbrush. (both laughing) And I took it apart. - [Patrick] That's $8,000. (all laughing) - I'll send you an invoice. - So thanks for that. I was taking it apart and - Oh wow! - Are freaking sick. Isn't that awesome? - It's dense. - So this is another E Ink display that is actually still on since which is cool. When I start a new project I kind of just like take the project and scooch it off onto and then put my new project in the center. - It seems like you're going for sort of a don't spend more than you - If it gets the job done then it doesn't need to be expensive. And that's kind of been the Like if these, these lights up here, these were probably 15 bucks on Amazon and I bought 'em like seven years ago. - The lights are something - All right. - But okay, that's a GH6 and is this one-- oh so two GH6s now. - Yep. if you match your cameras obviously. - [Zack] Yep. - And then this one, It's a Lumix. Do you know - [Patrick] 7-14mm. - 7-14mm. - You just said what he said. I don't know, I honestly - [Patrick] Nice and wide. - Is it 18 to 35? - [Patrick] That is an 18 to 35. - On a speed booster? - Honestly, I don't know I just know that looks - Do you ever zoom it though? - Ooh, the zoom on 18-35 It's pretty smooth. - It's a pretty smooth zoom. - Can't fault it for a classic except for that it's mounted to - [Zack] Yeah. Which actually. - [Gerald] With the DeWalt clamp. (all laughing) - So this stripped out which So now I just have the I just have to, every to make sure I don't You haven't seen the coolest feature yet. So to keep the desk pristine, this is a piece of - Applebee's or whatever - Exactly, exactly. And I have a roll of so every time it gets scratched up or messed up I can just and I have a brand new white desk. - It's a hospital bed. Is that what you- - [Zack] Basically, yeah. - So tell me about this This looks like this is heavy duty. - Yeah, so I knew when I, 'cause previously I had but this ceiling's a little - Right. in this space for about five years. And so I wanted something 'cause there's like those arm boomy things with the camera on the end. They just wiggle around all the time. And so I can't like adjust focus and wait for it to stop wiggling. So I got this DJ Scaffold - [Gerald] Oh it's a DJ Scaffold. - And then barn door rails and then just tripod up into the rail and so I can slide this left and right to get the shot I want. - And you put a little safety on the end so you can't like you can't exceed it. - Yeah. I'll give it to you. - Yeah, thank you. in the channel name though, right? - Right. &quot;JerryRigEverything.&quot; And then these are on Monopods. - We don't have to reveal what's on it, but is this notes or - Yeah, so this was for here in this chair, print out my notes, put it next to the light, what I'm gonna say, say it to the camera, get the next point, say it to the camera. So there's a lot of - Sure. I am able to make a coherent - How long would you say that you roll for on average for one of your videos? - Mm. go back and forth from - If I'm doing a tear down with or whatever is probably like 30 minutes of talking to that camera. And then the actual tear probably like an hour or so. Have a post-it note and stuff of things I want to say. And then when I go write the script after I'm done, that's when - The tear down is already edited down to a shorter duration. And then you voice over the, - Not even that. I just and then make my script and - Oh cool. - [Zack] I do have this right here that. - [Gerald] I don't work You realize that? (Gerald laughing) So if there ever is a fire that like expand, like, like and puts powder everywhere. So it's like a fire - I don't think you have to worry about anything causing a fire on here with these cheap lights you're using. Actually or maybe, maybe Maybe we need more fire extinguishers 'cause they are on main's power and you're running a ring light too. - Yeah. this is your key light. I don't know what light is what, it like, the setup is like they're in like a hexagon around you or the. - The one thing I do wish I had, and I don't know what light this would be. So this gold toothbrush for - Yeah. from the top. - And so the gold looks dark. So if I had like a white that would make the gold look better. Sometimes I hold up a piece of paper and to like get the Does that make any sense? Am I making sense? You're using a bounce. - I need a bounce light. - No, I'm saying the paper is a bounce. - I need, I need to. - But we'll give you, yeah, like you could, there's Amaran has these tubes like T4Cs, T2Cs. We could put tube lights up here. You guys should have two lights. They have the, what's that one? The F22 which is like a light mat. It's like a big panel. - So you could just like have - But then would the camera cast a shadow? - It would, but look at this. You got these, you could run it, you could have this right here on either side of like a one big panel of that. You could have like this soft box. It just goes right here and then one right here on And you could run them real low. - You're onto something. And then from edge you A couple P60Cs there hitting the wall and they're full color. So one day you weren't feeling You know what I mean? It's limitless. Editor Gerald here back in thank Amaran for sponsoring and to let you know a little of the Amaran brand, including the launch of the new website: amarancreators.com. Amaran understands the and are focusing their and expanding their ecosystem to best serve the needs of the creator. Part of this new direction amarancreators.com. So head on over there to learn more about the products I and check out the new Alright, Amaran, activate party mode. Thanks for listening. You were talking about editing and voiceover and all Do you do everything on your - So I have an editor. - Yeah. he has lived in Texas He's a friend from high school, so I've known him for like my whole life. But he's been living in We just send files back and then he gets it and then I just polish it off and post it. - I'm obsessed with this There's a channel called: Burls Art. Shout out to a channel that - [Zack] Yeah. outta just whatever suits his fancy. - Yeah. And it looks so good. - They do. This is a pencil and I saw when I was watching like the, yeah, the end of the video. He is like, and we'll whoever wants it. And then I found out this guy bought it and I was like, hey, I know that guitar. - [Zack] Yep. Yep. - [Gerald] Oh, so this - [Zack] Yeah, so I have This is same one I've been - There's a part of me that can't you take any of this whatever, and get a better mic? But also I have to respect of studio tours where it's a lot of money on stuff. &quot;If it get,&quot; go ahead. Say the line. - &quot;Gets the job done.&quot; (Gerald laughing) - What are we editing on here by the way? Super wide. I don't think I've seen the What is going on here? - [Zack] Yeah, so I love this - This man loves his timeline. - [Zack] Yeah. When I- - [Gerald] You can see the whole video. - When I edit with Premiere, But like if I'm just using a web browser or something like that, I can like lock it to - Sure. like my notes, my research and then the whole video timeline here. - And that's easy to do arrow to the right. When you're using Windows, am I right? I see we got a Windows what do we always see Patrick? Oh I got the Mac studio - No, I got this whole setup for less than the price of a MacBook. - What are we rocking down here? Did you build the PC or - [Zack] I have built them in the past, but this one I just bought. - Are you into PC cleaning though? Because that is a travesty right there. I don't know what that is, but. - [Zack] Dang it. - I'm gonna take points Looks like you have some - [Zack] Organizing, yeah. Video projects. All these are formatted. - That's fast and loose man. See if you accidentally like put it down and it gives a bounce. Then you're playing - Here's the thing though, no And if I sneeze, I aim it somewhere where it's not gonna move the SD cards. - Except one sneeze and they all fly over. Audience, do you agree? This is recklessly close between go ahead and format and shoot 'cause you know there's a big and it probably hasn't hit the NAS yet. - It hasn't failed me yet. It hasn't failed me yet. - One sneeze away from (both laughing) - Whatever. All my footage that I've - Footage too? Not just the, so you don't just keep the keepers, you. - I keep a hundred percent of all the everything I've ever shot. - Why? Every time I I'm gonna ask you a question. Have you ever pulled up a and put it into a new video that wasn't available that you could have just taken from that? - No, you haven't. (both laughing) But it's peace of mind. It's nice having redundancy like we talked about earlier with the microphones. - Oh, it's redundant alright. - Yeah. (all laughing) - This is a motherboard - [Gerald] Oh sweet! So that's kind of fun. - If we judge the age it looks like it's from the My man's got a Blacktail Studio hammer. - You know your YouTube channels? - I think we're watching the same stuff. - Yeah, a hundred percent. - Coming soon, probably like mid-July. We're gonna fly out and- - [Zack] Dude, legit. - [Gerald] Do Cam's - Not in person. He doesn't know this yet, but I want to collab with him. To make a table. that he's gonna make - Yeah, the one of those $20,000 tables. Yeah, he's gonna make it for me. - Do you want it like walnut and epoxy or something like that? - I wanted to make it We'll get into this in a minute, but like I want it to make it somewhere like themed for the factory. - That's cool. - So this Hummer project took took like 90 kilowatt and threw 'em in the back seats. Took an electric motor and made a military Humvee I don't think most studios - Yep, pretty good. That's a big hole in the - [Zack] It's giant. - [Gerald] All right, what else you got? (both laughing) Got it. - Yeah, I'm not. See this whole thing? I'm not doing that. There's a line I have. There's no hazard pay. (Gerald laughing) If you get an elevator I'll come down. - [Gerald] We're on our own down here. - Yeah, the elevator's coming soon. Hopefully within two weeks. So, but the interesting thing, since we're so far below ground, we're about 20 feet down right now. It was about 15 degrees above ground during the winter. So it's gonna be fully So we're gonna have a master bedroom, we're gonna have bunk bedrooms, we're gonna have a 100-inch of separates the sleeping Kitchen on this side and then like couches and stuff over here and then we have like an that we're gonna power Basically we can run wires and outlets just like a house would. A combustible toilet that (Gerald laughing) - So I do have a question. So I think I already said I loved it. I, if you guys have, if the &quot;JerryRigEverything&quot; these series, we're talking about: the Humvee one. The Bunker. They're great. They're really good. Good watching. - But I was joking around when I was like, so this guy had to make this into a six part series 'cause and you know you got You were also selling dirt Right? - Trying to generate some revenue. Did you cover the cost of the bunker? - A hundred percent. Yeah. And made quite a bit more actually. So it's. - Yeah, the whole thing was to make money. 'cause we have a lot on with my Not A Wheelchair business. - Okay. We've seen this I could see it right out the window. Tell me about this Not A Wheelchair. - So basically I met this girl - He did it all for a woman. - And I did it all for a She's been in a wheelchair And I realized very, very, very quickly, like first date quickly that wheelchairs are and off-road wheelchairs - How much do wheelchairs - Wheelchairs are five grand. Like the actual manual and then off-road wheelchairs and I'm not gonna drop But we were able to design our own and manufacture it for less than $5,000. And then now we're building to make the manual of the rest of the industry. So it's gonna be, it's gonna be great. Do you wanna see it? - The factory? - Alright. - This building right now is you know, our studio And I guess this building and development for our which is kind of a contradiction because we actually make wheelchairs now. - Yeah. Why did you call - Because eventually, 'cause we're making like this 'cause we don't want to be associated with the wheelchair industry 'cause it's just, they cost so and so hard to repair. We want to separate ourselves from them. - Gotcha. to manufacture from bike parts which is a whole lot out there at the moment. But as we started manufacturing this and selling it, we realized that wheelchairs are also Like the wheelchair that and the materials for that chair are like, you know, hundreds of dollars and it's, it just makes no sense. - That's just a wheelchair like this. - Right? It's not- - Yeah, okay. - And so we decided to and so that's what this building has been for the past two years. Research and development for that. And we've got some, some pretty big toys that the YouTube channel has helped fund. - Really cool and noble you spend any money on which I really admire. - These are our durability And so right now Oren is hooking up. We call this guy Greg, - [Oren] Right here. - So basically it's a 250 - [Gerald] Okay. - And it just sits in this chair as it gets dropped 7,000 times And then these rollers over Like 200,000 rotations? - The entire wheelchair gets dropped or the metal plate gets - The entire wheelchair, the whole thing. - Oh wow. - And so this, these tests through five years worth of - Is that the average lifespan of a wheelchair is five years? - Five years give or take. that it would be good if - Yeah. that's the abuse we put it through because basically we wanna durable product that people This is. - [Gerald] What the hell is that? (both laughing) - So this is something I have So you're seeing it for the first time. - Oh we got the exclusive. - Yeah. So our off-road but they- - If you need to go to with like extra traction like a track chair-- You just can't compete with that. Plus this one can be operated by a joystick which like expands for it 'cause like not of their fingers. - Oh okay. - Or the strength to like steer and so having a joystick operated I'll make a video about this on my channel in probably like two or three months. So you get the first look. - Nice. And if you get some of your then you bring in the tracked wheelchair to pull 'em all out. Right? - Exactly. - We imagine like farmers and like you know people who or like Canada or something like that- - Totally. - Wait, did you call Canada the boonies? (Zack laughing) I resent the implication. - And then this is also something This is a four wheel drive There's a hub motor in each tire and like this thing has of power at any given time. Can tow 300 pounds 20 miles. It's a very capable machine. We have a FabLight laser which is used to like cut out all the metal. So like this trailer you see here, all was cut with the FabLight. The Fume Dog gets rid of from the laser 'cause in the aluminum dust kind 15L Slant-PRO Lathe from Tormach. We have the 1100 from Tormach as well and like we make a lot and wheelchairs and camber A little bit away from - That's why I put my clipboard away. - Yeah, yeah. - Because there's nothing you know, I don't like Tormach set up, you know. - This building we bought two years ago and it's about 5,000 square feet and then we are moving to and a half months, which And that one has the big boy toys in it. Now we are in the third building. I dunno what's the best segue to this. What did we say the last? - We don't need a segue. We don't need a segue? Okay. We're here randomly in a new spot. (Gerald laughing) Everything that I've been or six years have been leading up to this. Every single brand deal, every this is what it's all building up to. So this is our new space that This is gonna be a showroom for the, our new Not A Wheelchair building. We have like a conference room over here. Glass walls going down in The cool machines though are over here. This is another conference room where all the engineers are gonna sit and then come out here for a second. This right here is a 26,000 manufacturing facility where we'll be able to have metal come in one side and wheelchairs leaving the other side and finishing wheelchairs Where now if someone orders like six months. Lemme show you some of the and if you have any questions. - Just it's bigger than I was expecting. (Zack laughing) We were in the other space- - That other space seemed like reasonable. So when you said there was a bigger air, a bigger space, I thought. - Yeah. It'd be a little bit bigger. You know, this is massive. This is a Walmart or whatever. (both laughing) - The Walmart of wheelchair Low price wheelchairs. That's So this machine right here It's a Herber 350 left right multi-stack bending machine. - [Narrator] It's produced of magneto reluctance and - This head right here can and kind of like pull it in whatever, you know, bend But it also has something 'cause like if you take, of drywall right here. If you try to bend a, like a a metal rod, it'll just kind of snap. But if you have a mandrel inside, it kind of like fills the that it doesn't kink And so this has like, it's and the inside of the which is why it's so expensive, Which 'cause it's gonna make a lot easier. - Do you know, you could tell He stopped talking to me in the tour and now he just like is so excited to tell people about this thing because he is just locked - Right. else around him is gone. That's, this is a crazy - It's so cool. I mean it took us a minute to pull the trigger on it. 'cause 400 and freaking - I bet you gotta bet that - Yeah. And so this right I think it's about four kilowatts. It's able to cut through - Oh, you want me the Laguna, eh? Yeah. - Yeah, the Laguna. - Gotta go with the Laguna. Yeah. - Laguna makes some pretty awesome tools. - Look how far we've come. Hey fam, we went from of color paper he's using in his backdrops to Zack telling us he's got for his two hour express or whatever you're working on here. - Yeah. - The reason my LED lights- That's what this is. - Just some regular YouTuber stuff? Okay. - But I save money by that I can spend it on - I take, I take everything back. - There we go. - Your early system makes sense. I didn't see the with the $7 lights, you know what I mean? (beeps) - Basically everything (air whooshing) (beeps) I mean, elephants are really cool. (beeps) - Well, Cam, this is the first I've actually held your hammer and it's- - Who's the real fan, - This is the first time - Wow. I thought we were on YouTube. - This is the door-- the door's right here. Yeah? Okay. - That is a door. Good job, man. (beeps) - You gimme, gimme a 180 and putting it on the 40-40 and then flipping that for the, you know, putting the reverse - Awesome. Yeah just... Oh, that looks good. Yeah. I think that'll make a big difference. You're welcome, Zack. - All right. That solved And or created more. (beeps) - Can you imagine if you weren't, you weren't building it everything I've ever (both laughing) Just this is it. - And I'm pretty, I'm I think this is- (beeps) If I shoot everything myself, why does anyone else need to - Because it's, it's for me. Clearly. an answer to this. (beeps) - Editor Gerald here. Ignore everything I - Right on. Right on.