At 3:00pm magic show began England. all ages - a penny each to see the show. As the entertainers took to the stage none present in their seats knew that in seven of the audience would not leave alive. Victoria Hall was built just over 10 It was an imposing brick building in a gothic style that was popular at The main auditorium housed a stage and the ground floor (or &quot;pit&quot;), the dress circle, Due to its high capacity it quickly meetings, kinds of entertainment. and concerts A children's magic show was, thus, not at This particular show was orchestrated by town: Flyers distributed before the event conjuring, talking wax works, living and something known as the Great Ghost Additionally it was promised that every would stand the chance of receiving a in the form of a small book or toy. could resist the lure of such a show. pocket money or pestered their parents admittance. 16th of june The show itself went smoothly. The Fays many times before and in many other delighting thousands of children across Most shows had been without major and (until the very end) this was no Indeed the most noteworthy thing that a puff of smoke from one of the kids in the front row, This aside the audience, almost entirely adults present, As the final act concluded the Fays with certain numbers on them exited the theatre. handfuls of toys and sweets into the This is when everything went wrong. The Fays were throwing their treats with none reaching the dress circle or The children seated in these upper areas dismayed by this, and many left their to run down to the ground floor and grab These children were excited - hyped up of them anything they'd seen before. they were young. measured in single digits. All these things being the case the no restraint. They charged down the and as fast as they could. door gave access to the ground floor On this day the door had been bolted only partially open, leaving a gap through which these excitable children This had been done, presumably, to allow the auditorium this narrow doorway became a death trap. before one their fallen friend in from behind. children were stacked like cordwood in with the ones at the bottom of the pile Some reports state that the pile of reached 20 deep from floor to ceiling. by the fact The children at the top could not see and so continued to surge forwards, trapped at the front. William Codling Jr, a survivor of the later gave this particularly haunting &quot;Soon we were most uncomfortably packed, but still going down. &quot;Suddenly, I felt that i was treading upon &quot;in horror to those behind, &quot;It was no use. I passed slowly over &quot;long Few adults were present throughout this One of the first to become aware of what Frederick Graham. This man did his best narrow too tightly for him to be able to free He instead ran up another staircase and through an alternative exit. adults who arrived on the scene were The door itself was eventually wrenched and within half an hour every child, or dead, had been removed from the The survivors were rushed to hospital pavement. many suffocated and crushed extensively. descended on the theater Many only found what they were looking Reports tell of at least one man who, collapsed in tears, lamenting out loud not just one child but his entire family. incident had claimed the lives of at a local Sunday school. In total 183 children were killed in the most from asphyxiation. country, and even reached the ears of The Queen sent along her condolences, with a hefty contribution to a fund that disaster. funerals of all over the course of an entire week. throughout this time An inquest was held into the disaster, anyone to blame. A second inquest, result. to leave such a narrow gap, tickets were taken. theatre continued to stand It would ultimately be destroyed by a during World War II. considered both tragic disaster, The Fays were criticized during the disaster. continued to work as travelling although they never again put on a and never returned to Sunderland. A memorial to the victims was erected in close to the site of Victoria Hall. mother Over the years it has undergone several but it remains standing. You can find it protected from vandals by a glass canopy, which took place nearby. There is however one other legacy of the Robert Alexander Briggs, a young boy at the time of the disaster, was so that he resolved that no such thing Just eight years later, having studied he patented a special type of bolt that outside, building to escape. bar emergency exit in a public building. This invention, over the many years it has saved not just hundreds of lives, but perhaps, the best possible tribute that to the children who died in Victoria on that day in 1883.