Buckshot Roulette has stumped me not once, but of this game when it first came out, but it was Then, out of nowhere, we got ourselves Something that could give me the answers I I felt the lore slipping out of my theorist grasp. you. Hello internet! Welcome to Game Theory, taking big risks. And today, we are talking about start of this year. Buckshot Roulette. A simple million players. This game was super enticing stakes, its ability to make you wince at a fake more to this game's story than meets the eye. But Sorry Mark. Don't get me wrong, I certainly tried, had a full grip on what this game was supposed Hidden inside the April update for the game was email address. And from there, came a website, Help us understand the Buckshot lore. Immediately, I had at this ARG, trying desperately to find certainly found a good amount of stuff, we're whole thing wide open. So grab your YouTube to need your help to solve this. Let me show you can do to help uncover the lore of Buckshot bathroom of a club. You don't really have many you and move out onto a catwalk where a smoker the next door and you enter into a small room Shotgun Roulette begins. If the name didn't give where someone uses a gun loaded with a and hopes it doesn't go off. In Buckshot Roulette There are only two players, yourself and the amount of live rounds and blank rounds. Using a ups, the player needs to figure out the order dealer while avoiding any themselves. If you get you're brought back with a defibrillator. Which but regardless, the third round is where things revivals this time. Either you or the dealer are a machine emerges from the darkness with a which you now get to spend on facial at least it would be if after your victory, you to go again. They even give you a bottle of pills you really fancy a challenge. And that is the for some really interesting mental gymnastics a lore standpoint, there wasn't really much to what the heck is the dealer's deal? How is no defibrillation? Why is he playing this game find to even speculate as to what the answer and it changed everything. With this update, there beat the game for the first time. A computer brain sticking out of it? Checking the monitor you the stats of all your runs. But it also has email. You'd have thought that would have been Instead, we are given an email address. Contact address actually works. Though it doesn't really automated response back. But that doesn't mean Greetings, and thank you for reaching the perpetual pioneers of technology. Our Volta designed to help you with any questions you regarding your query. And then it just spits out only following up with, in case of any new Helpline will reach out to you directly. If you think you know where this is going. Because yes, base64decode.org isn't gonna get you the full protected by a key. Much like you'd find in a the key. And that comes not from the email, but email and think about it for a second, you'll online email hosting platform. It came specifically from the domain So I figured, we try putting that domain into glorious vision of 90s nostalgia. It's but it's definitely up there. On this website, that we've been using, but also a cell phone playoff of the Sony Ericsson, but regardless of of underground Russian roulette ring, Koni does to help. As part of the April update, the Koni the game. Using it calls a mysterious number is blank or live. It's definitely embrace the future that we see on the website, At the bottom of the webpage, there is a nice always the case. In the early days of the ARG, from Volta's helpline. Initially, this sounds However, we then get this piece of information. Now we're getting somewhere. This world is While we can be seen driving off at the end we clearly aren't going to be able to go far. within the city, or at most within the country. authoritarian government isn't exactly new Klubnika focuses pretty much all of their games either trying to break out of them, or trying Some of those games even share direct connections, showing the same logo in each facility. Mike has gone on record to say that though not every connection is going to be is connected to that shared universe too. But voice message, we now have the key for that it turns out the thing that got my theorist ears The shutdown. Maybe this would give us But there was still one minor hiccup. but it was also scrambled using a non-standard the same algorithm or website. And despite trying it out. The answer eventually had to be revealed pointed the community to Gillmeistersoftware.com, we got right at the start. They won't ever I made a wish upon a falling star, and it brought fed by booming shots and blood and luck. It is and it still brings more comfort This poem offers some pretty obvious parallels to The dance below would be referring to the the game. The line about booming shots matches us the machine is fed by it, as well as blood and It would make a lot of sense for him to be a to the face and not needing any kind of the machine hungers, has also shown up before. updates. Quote, the machine hungers for CR Channel and Volta Standard Electronics. Him along with that phrase, the machine hungers, not just for selling cell phones and computers that's running these backroom roulette games. imply a lack of control over the situation. Like machine to life, but are now unable to keep responsible for the shutdown? Or is it just a It's all possible, but to find out, I had to wasn't expecting. Steam cards. If you don't know the tin. They're just virtual trading cards they're associated with specific games, and earn cosmetics for your profile, or earn coupons Roulette. Just like it's Game of Roulette, it plays by different rules. contain some in-universe lore, though one of them If you look closely, on its screen you can find 26:15, a passage from the Bible. This particular a godly king that saw much success during his he became proud. And one day, he attempted to was reserved only for the priests. He was law and greater than the holy priests, leading to given, verse 15, comes from just before In Jerusalem, he made devices invented for use the soldiers could shoot arrows and hurl large wide, for he was greatly helped, until he became powerful. We're who was building something to defend his nation. and in doing so, fell from grace and was cursed poem we've been given. They won't ever forgive upon a falling star, and it brought me nothing but something they felt was good, but for it to the only biblical reference we get. There's the second round of Buckshot Roulette. At the Yeah, go figure. If Volta is behind the machine protected their own butts. Other kind of butt, waiver, one that has already been signed by that person has died. And it is signed by God. That's right, the big G man himself. God Mike himself has said that all hell broke loose die in the game ourselves. You end up at the spiky than I remember from Sunday school. That Bible verse about Uzziah, it makes me think that In that quote from Mike about hell breaking creator of the universe type of guy. What if God but instead a man who considers himself to be and prosperous world, and so began to become else, a God amongst men. But also like Uzziah, taking things into his own hands, our poem all because of his pride and hubris. The and what is it he did to cause this downfall? After selling 1 million copies of Buckshot we got a new trailer for the game, and in just Remember August 5th, 1998. According to the phone 1998, which not only explains the old look of shutdown, it only happened 16 days prior to the online, but I just couldn't find anything of through Mike's catalog of games. Because this In the game Carbon Steel, we are conducting deep underground and collecting data from them. about these fleshy creatures covered in ice time goes on, the creatures we begin pulling out we blow up our lab in order to escape, but in that we've been using to retrieve and analyse whatever was down there. We also learn from the been used in decades. So our first day on the this facility came online and began digging around And do you want to hazard a guess as to when 1998. I don't think that our player character is I think it is whoever was in charge of this creatures in the name of science. That is what cause the shutdown. These monsters that we've planet. And it all began on August 5th, 1998. with this game's lore. But sadly, this is where back to the site, you'll find a big yellow star to a secret login page. Perfect. We just need problem. Nobody can figure out what the password clues we need to solve the password. And that 1 supposed to try and give us a hint. But despite we still can't really figure out what it is. For caption that read cupio dissolvi. It's Latin for desire to leave life and join Christ in heaven. involve the general desire for one's own death. that means anything for the password puzzle religious ideas. In the May update, Mike ended his instead of his usual sign off. When the game achievement, Mike posted a different signature first signature and then use a basic Caesar Lupo, a line from Dante's Inferno that translates known as the Volta of the standard electronics? In Italian, Volta means turn and in Italian poetry, it is usually the is a large shift in the tone or subject. In the found in the ARG email has nine lines, just like Dante's Nine Circles smart kitten. Though this post has been removed, whether things got changed. Finally, there's the I didn't mention this earlier, but you may have standard. The voicemail logo is a sideways LOL instead of WXYZ. There's also an extra line And cat. Yeah, at this point, I'd agree with so many different words translating it in through theorist senses are screaming at me that the that they've been staring us in the face the I'm out of options, and it looks like the rest of ruthless than I have. They have tried over 1,000 tried listing the Nine Circles of Hell all possible combination. Nothing. They've tried and in English. Nothing. They've even tried typing phone like I did, and they're still coming up So far, we know we're looking at a story of pride and ambition, doomed humanity by designed to bring monsters from deep within Sadly, not everyone agreed, and their causing a government-issued lockdown, where thrive as people desperately seek some kind of world. I wouldn't be surprised if there's more The other side is about someone trying to only to realise that they were right and there much spider-like, and in Control Room Alpha and with Core also showing us a mechanical heart And those spider monsters from Core also look That's all pure speculation on my part, but Mike and so, with this ARG showing us a connection I could easily see whatever is behind that connected universe. But if we don't work together on in this world. So, if you'd like to join me description where I've left a link to the website on. They have done an incredible job over there, not just enlisting over already tried, but also breaking down this ARG of their community, we've even managed to find that it should be 4-20 characters long, not use case-sensitive. I would love for us, the theorist done by these guys. They have worked so hard need answers. But I'm sure that with all our and its cryptic lore. So, make sure you are can bet your bottom dollar that when we do solve end the story once and for all. But in the game theory. Thanks for watching. And if solving check out our video on all the secrets hiding deep dive, theorists.