-Bowen Yang, I want to talk &quot;Fire Island,&quot; You just got back from -- -From vacation in Fire Island. We went buck wild starring Nicole Kidman and Julianne Moore. -You said you went buck wild. -Fire Island is like party, Yeah, air horn. it was &quot;Mrs. Dalloway It was, like, very -- by watching &quot;The Hours.&quot; -We went to high tea, like, thinking we were partying, a dark living room with the glow -Meryl Streep. -The glow of Meryl Streep. Well, you have I know it's the start of summer, and I just want You are -- You have an issue You are afraid of White Claw. -I'm afraid of White Claw. -[ Laughs ] -But why are you afraid -Here's the thing, Because seltzer itself It's like spicy bubbly water. And so to make it alcoholic is just a hat on top of a hat, [ Laughter ] the cans are too tall, and they're staring me down I still have White Claw Everyone, stop! with this. -Come on! Boo! -No, no, no. -But have you tried it? But I -- you know what? -It's too much. the official drink of the summer And I was drinking way back in middle school -What is a -- It's a Shirley Temple with, -Wow. Aperol Sprtiz is over, and so I feel like And... -Speaking of -Oh! By the way, another great season &quot;Saturday Night Live,&quot; huh? [ Cheers and applause ] of &quot;Saturday Night Live,&quot; -Yes. Is that Dirty -- -Might be a Dirty Shirley. -No, definitely not. This was Aidy's last show. -It was Kate McKinnon's it was Kyle Mooney's, -Like, four people who defined -Was it emotional? I've been It's always -- I feel like I just want to step -Yeah. But I was still a jerk, they were hugging, what this moment would be like, And I was just off to the side sneaking a photo in. such a paparazzi jerk. we just went to the after-party -Yeah, that's how you do it! -That's how you party, and Lorne -He does? Didn't he -- is one of those Lorne lore since, like, -Pigs in a blanket? You know -- You know this. but I don't know -Okay. -Well, who doesn't love -There you go. -Yeah! but I didn't know about -Pigs in a blanket. The mythos of Lorne. about this because... Speaking about Mr. Paparazzi, No big deal. went up to you and said, &quot;Bowen, -Yeah. [ Cheers and applause ] She got a photo with you, because it's actually -Yes! -Where she came up to me &quot;I'm gonna be so annoying. And I -- -Yeah. -Just saying I'm hot. the craziest thing of my life that she wanted It was such a crazy night, and she had so much fun in it. And so I was, like, and then she came and foisted me -She's super fun. -She is really nice. But then I also heard that -Yes. she said to you that you guys -Okay. This is her idea. gorgeous women with dark hair where they... ...they really -Middle parts. -We did this sketch together. We named her character Marjorie. I was complimenting her tattoos, &quot;Let's get one together.&quot; And it was truly, like, And so she still The soft plan is, the next time she's in New York. I feel like And so... ...I do want to take this time -Yeah, sure. -Okay. [ Laughter ] Don't make her uncomfortable. -Dua, it's your old pal, Bowen. -And I think we stumbled we're gonna get I will learn stick and poke, Whatever you want to do, -All right. But thank you. -Think about it. -Yeah! One of your best friends, -Yep. Can you set up what It's on Hulu right now. It's a modern retelling by Jane Austin, in this queer vacation town, And I play the Jane Bennet. I play the Rosamund Pike And it's so fun. fun rom-com moments you'd be able to do. is just gorgeous, too, And it is rom-com moments, But there's a karaoke scene. -There's a scene where you're into someone who's gorgeous. -You did that -I did that in every movie -Yeah, yeah, yeah. -I was in &quot;Jurassic World.&quot; on a dinosaur, I go, [ Laughter ] -Meet-cute. But I don't know. in a movie I recommend it to everybody. -To do that. Here's Bowen Yang Take a look at this. -Baby, you don't need You just need to learn a little bit more, 'cause is making you You're like an open wound. -Yeah, but I want the romance I like the rom-com stuff, kissing in the rain with the boom box or confessing What's wrong with that? -Nothing's wrong with that. doesn't happen in real life. The only real thing [Bleep] the rest. -Fine. I will try and get laid. -Yeah, &quot;Fire island.&quot; -Congrats on everything. -Oh! -Whoa! [ Cheers and applause ] -Cheers. I love you. &quot;Fire Island&quot;