The Nintendo 64 era was such an exciting and I was only a few months old at the time of so many big series getting their first hype. Nintendo was the biggest developer of but for me the best games on the console were Banjo Kazooie are probably the first games that N64 games but my favorite out of their During a time where most games were made to Conker's broke the mold with its adult themes, practically every interaction in the game. you'd probably think you were purchasing the to come back a few hours later to this... so in today's video I'm going to be covering the the tricks along the way. I hope you all enjoy. Conker with a crown on his head and glass of milk past 24 hours that landed him in a throne as cast of characters surrounding him are. Our story voicemail that he's going to be home late as he friends. Conker gets a bit carried away, though, as he heads through a storm to get the current ruler of the kingdom can be seen of the legs on his table gives out spilling In the morning Conker wakes up hungover in the into the field to meet a scarecrow named Birdy. ground which give context sensitive abilities and Next Conker will need to get out of this area so it to move a bit faster. This is a tutorial area to teach Conker techniques like high jumping and trigger to learn how to hover, jump backwards and about 1 second. At the top of this platforming in order to progress we'll pull down this nearby a key running around the room. The fastest getting it as close to the door as possible. We'll waiting for an event to trigger to give Conker a enough. Ideally we'll get this to occur with the the key still in view to ensure the key doesn't obtained we can hit the key and upon picking it We can then hit the gargoyle off the bridge B button to clear the path and exit the area. On taking on several different odd jobs and missions His first mission is to return the beehive to the we can jump down from this cliff and avoid fall a useful trick as falls can either do 1 damage to play it safe in most cases. Movement is Conker's standard run speed is usually the fastest yellow ground texture while heading up this path you see Arbliterator jumping just assume it's is pretty simple. As long as Conker remains get to the bottom easily avoiding the wasps. The the wasps and we're awarded the first cash done here called hive skip where instead of into the river and then carry it the rest of the but it does save roughly 12 seconds. a slingshot on these beetles that are blocking tricky without a proper crosshair, but being an Next we can head up to the Barn Boys area, jumping well as a cutscene skip saving a little bit of named Jack who's girlfriend won't get off him will then traverse through the area delivering 3 worried about are Marvin's burps after delivering to vomit, often more than once losing a ton delivered Marvin will blow up from the gas build This game does have a few movement related tech for instance during the climb here we can see holding the analog stick in the opposite direction momentum. On top of the barn Arb will press and then head inside completely ignoring the cash the pitch fork named Franky which begins chasing his attacks into all the piles of hay taking more heavy RNG sections of the run and it's even attack. After the last stack is taken out Arb and then jump onto it 2 seconds after Franky warp back to the lever after the next cutscene is After taking out the hay stacks Franky begins they disparage him for his performance and even defiance he ties a rope around his neck off the because he doesn't even have a neck so we'll outside we'll speak to the King Bee who wants to but we'll deal with this later. For now we'll top part of the Barn. From here Arb will jump over along the way to max out Conker's health and then the rope freeing Franky. For some reason 4 knives the first 4 can be thrown anywhere as long as the the knives away just before the cutscene plays the first big skip of the speedrun Haybot skip. and fight the Haybot but by hovering into one of it's possible to clip out of bounds and head to 30 seconds and removes additional possible During this fight Arb will bait missile launches blow holes into each of them. Water will begin bot into to short-circuit it and then once in deal damage. The main timesave here is charging immediately aggro it and lead it into the water. hops before it begins looking around, but as long him saving a few seconds. Following this fight fills up the chamber. Along the way there will be electrical wires which if allowed to make contact 6 wires are taken out Conker is able to exit with a stone tablet to launch Conker towards some Now we just need to finish up the King Bee's but she doesn't feel like dealing with Conker good side we'll need to collect groups of bees upon arrival. The first group can be found on Arb will head back to the wooden crate to get on roof to grab another wad of cash as well as the can be found while climbing up the ladders on the top Conker can jump off this plank to turn into hidden tunnel. From here Arb will jump down from on this cliff and slide down near the pieces of here and then we'll head below to grab a wad of of the area to grab the final set of bees and then begin tickling the sunflower and as she opens up isn't left out as a third wheel as she offers him cash in the area clearing the Barn Boys chapter. how he fits into the story, his servant Professor to fix the leg on the table. As we can see an elephant won't fit, but a squirrel is Easily convinced, the Panther King orders his Well if you've got some spare wads of cash lying blocks of chocolate like Conker then today's video best food delivery service out there sending out to your doorstep. Factor is perfect for busy 3 meals a day, but don't want to resort to out or your typical food delivery. No matter lunch and dinner with an expansive menu of well as 60 add ons including different snacks and heat up in as little as 2 minutes in the microwave can spend more time locking in on whatever you do out Factor because by using my code EZSCAPEOCT50 well as 20% off your next order. Link will be in thanks again to Factor for sponsoring today's Afterwards we'll head out of the area and then area it's always faster to jump rather than run the cabin we'll be greeted by the dung beetle poo if he can get the cows in the nearby area to to progress forward and after making our way After entering we can climb upwards to reach dispense into the cow's trough. The bull found begin to chase him around once he's in view. up a crate to release a cow onto the grass. For into the water briefly to manipulate the bull this big target Conker can take control over the cow will cause it to switch from eating grass is consumed it will begin filling up the basin one more time to remove it from the hole. We'll requiring an extra hit each time a new cattle Once the final cow is removed the grates covering By holding jump as Arb enters the next load perfectly upon loading in which can be used straight to the nearby money. At this point supposed to learn it from a context button, by jumping high up and performing a dive to push the wall. For some reason this will automatically skip the swim tutorial altogether saving up to 15 harder on Xbox Series consoles due to faster grab the money and learn swim the intended way. jump input to skip Conker equipping the mask and when moved across the area. While heading up be a handful of beetles patrolling the area and first beetle can be avoided simply by jumping and the beetles on cycle so that they're never in the end of the path Conker will place a TNT inside the beetle blowing him up to clear the path. While rolls it up the newly cleared path leading to the get past the final beetle towards the top. quicker to instead jump to the top of the mountain more ball to throw down this fence to take out a the peg Conker will activate it, flushing the catfish offer Conker a cash reward if he's able valuables. Nearby the dogfish is a passageway to cog with split personalities looking for his lady time in helping this man out by heading up the gliding into a nearby log to clip out of bounds. all the way to the top of the tower skipping at the top Arb will need to do a sketchy glide cash instantly and then can jump from here to hit Arb will then do some precise jumps downwards lands in the water. From here we can head through other side just outside the entrance. Arb will to the main room. There's not too much else to be hit from their starting positions so Arb will near the exit. Once the final cog is placed shorten the dogfish's leash granting Conker and cash inside will spot Conker and begin running need to open this door by spelling OPEN using O quickly enough to just barely hit P before section. This opens up the floor leading to the swimming directly downwards and hugging the wall the air dispensers to replenish Conker's oxygen right past the Clang patrolling the area. pop out of the water for air, dive back down pull this lever opening the exit to the lair. yellow tunnels to reach the exit passageway, Next we'll enter the boiler room. Upon entering cigarettes and drinking lighter fluid. The two fur. The one shoves the cigarette up his ass for pounce on Conker. Before approaching the imps Arb showering the enemies. It's important that Arb because once it ends Conker gets hungover aid kit to sober up just to get drunk all end of the stream manages to hit the final imp The fire imps enter a boiler, drop its balls of The boss fight here has a bit of RNG involved faces. In this case Arb gets really good luck meaning they can pull the lever dispensing what cause the boiler to step back allowing Conker several brutal hits to the family jewels the the machine. Afterwards the balls can be found open up this door and the other to roll down behind it. Leading through the wall is the After exiting Conker learns that the 10 dollars and decides to keep the entirety of it but before anything else happens the rope attached make their way out of the vicinity with Conker the river the dogfish gets loose and begins hover and then dives under the water to avoid the of the water and hugging the walls the dogfish but it will also swim past the catfish meaning gets skipped saving about 3 seconds overall. will begin chomping its way through the dock its final chomp causing it to get trapped bounce up to this ledge collecting $300. Arb then exits the area and heads back to Poo Conker bumps into a dung beetle who is in a big that some sort of monster had just snatched up bother entering for his own safety. But of course in the area so naturally Conker proceeds anyways. lying around the area. After throwing the first boss The Great Mighty Poo is summoned. The random so Arb will begin trekking through the rest closest to the center and chasing the others For the final set of three corn, Arb attempts to the other way and then jumps across, grabbing it's possible that the scared corn gets hit by Unfortunately for Arb this inconsistent strat to Conker before the hand spawns requiring them to throwing the final piece of corn the Great Mighty song. But of course this is a speedrun so not but they'll also be throwing the toilet paper into notes ending them instantly. The boss will always all of which can be manipulated by jumping Each phase requires an additional roll of toilet are pretty easy and straightforward, but for his position just before he begins singing. we can eliminate the spot he begins in it's but there should always be enough time to react After throwing the final roll of toilet note in a pitch strong enough to break the glass makes their way around to collect the cash and finishing the chapter. Following the end of this another one of her dancing workouts. She hears but it ends up being a rock monster instead Back to the speedrun Arb will begin heading the mountain. The only thing to point out in if touched kill Conker instantly. I don't know section is awful and I find it so difficult to barely slide through just in time. This leads to a for Conker to climb ropes and ladders all while top Conker will bump into 2 guards blocking to proceed. Conker pays up, but then the guard for the red squirrel they're looking for. But elephant and ends up being allowed to walk right This section of the game has a prehistoric vibe jumps to avoid the dinos, but unfortunately gets there's a statue and when it's interacted with to the cave. Once below the statue needs to even manages to do a little slide off with the way over to the Rock Solid Night Club to grab onto Conker so when this happens it's best to jump it along. Upon reaching this passageway Conker cavemen and the wall below. This leads to the main In the far back right of the room there's a door Conker finds a giant dinosaur egg and he sits on thinks Conker is its mother and begins following eat each of the cavemen it runs into, but by keeping him locked onto Conker he'll sometimes The most important thing is to ensure that Loopy door or he won't be able move to the next room. this ledge to save a bit of time. In the sensitive pad as well as some cavemen worshiping Arb will shoot this button to raise the nearby be standing closer to the platform after eating the platform and hit the other button on the wall the giant dino head. From here Arb will use the dino's head and interact with each of its nostrils it to sneeze, clearing the green slime away from to the top of the head to grab some cash. Now the dino mouth leading to the next section, but side door again the game just warps us exactly a caveman outfit from a dead body. Normally the dino head to get back, but by death abusing exit out the door to reach the main chamber. the leader of the cavemen so when Conker comes he's the resurrected king. Then Arb heads back rock monsters lying around the area and each signaling the cavemen to take each of them out. as if they hit Conker he can sometimes get to get through this section relatively unscathed. but he won't budge without the password. offhand and he lets Conker and friends inside. Berri who's trapped inside. First Arb will go ramp and onto this switch to open a door. This boulder to complete. In order to get the second drunk and use his piss to push one of the rock after pushing him through the door Conker is he's hungover so Arb will just wait by the first Arb will push the rock past some rock monster another doorway. Arb will have to go through a rock monsters through the new openings. This will freeing her as well as a wad of cash. She escapes, outfit. Arb grabs the cash and attempts to exit bouncer who noticed him stealing the cash and is The boss can be seen getting a back rub from the outfit on. She shortly leaves afterwards and sick of dealing with the cavemen in the area and In return Conker is allowed to keep the money. Arb area once more carrying the bomb to the same place about is avoiding the cavemen bonking Conker on can be dropped down from that won't do enough the wall to land sooner. Then Arb will head into swinging uvulas are on a set cycle so as long as you'll be able to reach the end unimpeded. Conker rise as well as some platforms to get across. caveman. He wakes up shortly afterwards to a for all his cash. One of the cavemen ends of Conker so they insist on him using the vacant clearing this section optimally Arb will start race on a specific cycle. All 3 cavemen need to be section. What normally occurs during this race gate drops blocking the normal path and you need That is unless you're extremely good at the game skip the third lap completely by killing the block the path. Not only does this save a ton trick in the run so it was really impressive to last caveman the rest of the cash will be restored Conker ends up losing control of the jetboard as his girlfriend Jugga and their kingdom of cavemen. on the victims within the coliseum. After for the context sensitive pad to hypnotize the to spend 3 rounds clearing out cavemen in groups in at random and for the remainder they'll spawn Arb will headbutt any cavemen that are close to others just eat them normally, but we'll want to animation is really slow. Arb did a really but the second wave went a little off of the cavemen. They'd manage to clean it up This segment can just be really tough cause the Next up is the boss fight against King Buga All you need to do is wait for Buga to jump crotch and then bite him in the ass. And then wait for him to jump so once he raises his club defeated. King Buga's drawers drop for everyone completely forgetting he already has a girlfriend, She leaves him by the exit thus Arb then makes their way out of the area grabbing clever platforming tricks like frying pan cancels traverse back through the poo area and exit out exiting Conker will see the beehive being stolen honestly pretty cool because I guess we can just the hive and the way Arb does this is by climbing jump to reach this wad of cash you would normally this grab the cash right away, but also gives This can be reached a bit quicker with a jump. hops inside and begins taking out all the wasps. quickly as possible, but it's more optimal the Z button because it will cause the gun to same locations everytime so top runners will they're cleared out Conker can grab the hive and The route back is exactly the same as before and we can now finally afford to pay the barrel at the windmill avoiding the worms along the way. The last you can just hover along the right wall. but along the way down he'll lose control and the the end of the river. Conker then takes it upon just need to pull a lever to open up the front Greg the Grim Reaper. Greg entices Conker with the to take them out. Arb enters the graveyard and and hops on a grave in the center to shoot all 12 zombies in total will need to be cleared next section. Headshots are preferred as they'll will open the gate to a castle that can be reached just jumping around them is the best thing you can getting bit can result in falling off the path. his great, great, great, great, great, as he gives a lengthy retelling of his past. In to drink his blood, but the dinner gets advantage of Conker's presence and turns him into 7 villagers in the area and delivering them to a some movement tech we can see Arb using in the the bat is by descending as much as possible just as long as you don't touch the ground. done while holding a villager in hand will allow usual. The bat segment takes just a few minutes Following the final villager delivery the and his support rope can no longer hold his weight With the Count dead Conker transforms back to as zombies begin popping up everywhere so it's this section you'd need to complete a lengthy front door, but Arb just clips through a wall section took me at least a half hour if not than 2 minutes. After unlocking the front door barrel all the way back down the pathway with use it to get past the strong current upstream. we find some cash, but also find that it start concluding the spooky portion of the game. with an announcement from the military that for new recruits. In another ploy to make even as we head off to the naval base. Upon entering it gets shot out of the air by a submarine. looks a bit demoralized from the incident, but is clear the plane out of the area to let a boat all the way to the left and then head over to large TNT strapped to their back. Conker can push him from sliding down too far and then proceed Along the way there will be several mines to deal with for Arb since they have all their to push the TNT guy off the cliff to avoid using and inconsistent Arb doesn't bother using it. is a good time to restore electricity to the pad in the center. To do this Conker needs to chased by an electric eel to turn the power back restored and Conker can use the context sensitive to be pushed along the other side with Conker is possible to reach these crates quickly enough but Arb was slightly off-cycle so they decided forward allowing them to maintain max speed the second TNT is placed we'll shoot it to it out of the way for the boat to come through. with Conker's effort and rewards him by probably knowing he wouldn't agree to what wearing military equipment surrounded by squirrels the door drops and the scene begins playing out Private Ryan. You see, apparently the squirrels bears controlled by Professor Von Kriplespac. Arb battlefield using some clever jumps and crawls impossible to not get shot at least once here. the only squirrel survivors and just as Conker then equips himself with a lit cigar tediz. Arb shoots out the lock on the door and by the tediz and they all need to be cleared needs to maneuver around laser traps which can by a laser doesn't give any invincibility frames get killed instantly by one if you get really to talk a bit about the category they're running quickly. So this category isn't actually any% distinction is that this game doesn't really have any% and 100% is in 100% you grab an additional game. This is the cash you get after jumping off game. Chapters refers to starting the game from game. Compared to starting the game the normal to skip almost every cutscene in the game making result the 50 lives cheat is also allowed to be and since intentional deaths are needed in allow the lives cheat since unintentional deaths this game on the Xbox series S which is the Back to what's happening in the run Arb enters tediz in the room one by one. Once the room the squirrel hostage, but no matter which lever is lever opens up the door and we'll proceed room there's a teddy manning a turret. Arb will the room and using the context sensitive pad to you would probably man the turret to take out for a moment to activate them and then takes them point out here other than several waves of tediz all need to be dealt with before proceeding. Arb just in case Conker sustains any injuries and Outside we can see a group of tediz surrounding Luckily his armor is bulletproof and Arb takes out shield Conker from all incoming fire from bombers 6 air strikes and 3 spider mines to deal with as as he can just stop moving sometimes which can will just hug the walls or move backwards to dodge the spider mines. In this run Rodent manages to but what can you do? Arb will want to maintain After reaching the end the duo will stumble out the locks with a context sensitive pad before be getting shot at from several different angles the last lock Arb clears an enemy out of the In the next area Conker gains access to a tank and the building. Arb grabs some extra health and then being very necessary as they purposely jump into to blow up the final spider mine without taking and after it's pulled the area will begin from where they came and hop back into the tank. possible to recalibrate the stick and by doing at a much faster speed. So fast that you're able boost. But since Arb is playing on Xbox they'll center of the area there is a gun on top of this be shot by the tank to knock it down. Also since drop down each bridge in order to proceed. shoot last can be accessed early by driving down but for all the others Arb will need to be careful tower is toppled over a hole will appear where In the center of the next area Conker finds a this girl knows a surprising amount about disregards this, only focused on how she probably submarines. The hitboxes for these subs can be surface above the water for the best results. For out, for the second round 5 need to be cleared be exploded. It's important that these are dealt shot at wasting time. It's also possible to shoot Once the final sub is destroyed Arb will grab a girl. Just before helping her out of the hole, to touch her. The girl reveals herself to leading to a boss fight versus the two of watch performed quickly. Basically each wave of sorts to attack Conker with, but by shooting will end up turning around exposing its back this strategy 3 times and the boss fight is over. presumably dead on the ground, but he doesn't have a self destruct sequence with the giant teddy next section is definitely the sketchiest when knowing if you touch even a single one it could the area Arb stands on a vantage point on top teddies with the rocket launcher. This spot get a good shot at all the teddies and also up Conker. I know this section was probably a lot to see it speedran through so effortlessly. beach and Arb heads back through the barbed wire portion of the game. During the end sequence of being knocked out only to have just a few seconds explodes. Rodent can be seen flying in the to Windy we can see that Rodent's armor Conker heads inside anyways leading to the feral towards the entrance. The boss apparently has one to rob the bank. Conker has one condition style suit similar to Berri's. The duo then heads the game just due to the references and cinematic will need to be taken out in order to proceed has 2 waves of 2 guards, for the second and and for the final phase there will be 4. The main weasels come out and then shoot them all in super quickly taking advantage of the quicker In the vault room Berri manages to disable an entire room filled with cash. Conker needs timelapse to him reaching millionaire status. points out the Panther King is sitting whole operation was a setup coordinated by the his table. Berri steps up to confront the king Weaso takes her out with a machine gun. As Conker has indigestion from not drinking his milk and as it turns out the professor has been plotting alien inside him bearing a striking resemblance how the alien is dealt with in the movie we'll Arb begins by pulling the nearby lever to reveal a room including Berri's body and the professor get fight isn't too bad. There are three different a bite or the boss will move backwards. For alien spins or bites, but for the remaining to bite for the easiest to respond to opening. hit 4 times to stun it. Once it's stunned Arb 64 spinning it to throw it outside. After speedrun is complete. All things considered their personal best by 39 seconds resulting The game ends with Conker relentlessly trying and then just before its final attack the game breaks I've ever seen where Conker clears out choice and he grabs a gun as well as a sword. Then Conker unpauses the game and cuts the aliens head some of the earlier cast of characters as they him to step up as the new king of the land. Conker essentially had god powers he should have brought is placed onto the throne with a crown on head, the very grumpy Conker surrounded by everyone Anyways guys I hope you enjoyed today's video. to show support. Initially I was planning on but I just really couldn't get into the game due very interesting, especially at the world record again to Arbliterator for letting me use their Their twitch and youtube channels will this game as much I do have a handful of are taking a lot more time to complete, once they come out. That's all I have for more speedrunning related content and as