Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Mimas is one of Saturn's cutest moons. Its entire surface area is about the Spain but its giant crater makes it look like the Death Star. And when NASA made a temperature map of Mimas, they found that the warmest resemble Pac-Man eating the crater like a dot. I learned about Mimas whilst surfing the world wide web like a true internaut. But the Web and the Internet are different things. The World and the Internet have names that are catch different things. And, as we will see, surfing the world wide web is radical but it's also apropos. Metaphorically speaking the web is pretty wet. Before the web existed, and before the Internet existed, there were computers but they were big and lonely. They couldn't really talk to one another. I mean, sure, you could connect similar protocols but that was just a network. To connect disparate global machines you would need a network of networks. And in the 1960s a bunch of such a thing. Now, at the time, the phone and because no single institution could and computing power needed for dedicated lines... Well, more innovative and efficient methods were used. A system spanning many nations is international. So, a system spanning many networks is an Internetwork. It wouldn't be until 1974, in this very document, that the word Internetwork would be officially shortened to what we On October 29th, 1969, exactly 100 days after we first landed on a distant rock across space, we first landed a letter on a distant screen across the Internet. decided to send the word 'login' to a different model of computer at Stanford. They sent the 'L' and it arrived. They sent the 'O' and it arrived. And then the system crashed. But still, the first message sent over an Internet was a big deal. On a list of quite high, even though it was literally lo... Fast-forward two decades. CERN is working on a lot of and technologies to figure out who or what is doing what... You can just look it up on the Internet. was illogical. Based on hierarchies, linearly, it was lame. And this annoyed a guy named Tim Berners-Lee. You see, you could follow a only to reach a person or technology and for information on that you have to over again. So, in March of 1989, Tim Berners-Lee wrote a powerful paper simply titled A Proposal.&quot; He argued that notes with links, like references, between them is far more fixed hierarchical system. Instead of trees, Berners-Lee was proposing a web. Webbed systems that connect documents They were called hypertext. officiated the marriage of hypertext to produce a web that was worldwide. useful partnership needed to make the form of communication in our species' history. The Internet connects participants, the web connects information. hypertext documents accessed via the Internet. You can see the computer Tim Berners-Lee in the London Science Museum. if you had unplugged this computer you the entire web. The first website was info.cern.ch. Today it view the web as it appeared as a baby. We've come a long way since this. check out Onesecond[.designly.com] on the web. Facebook likes, Tweets and even e-mails and how many have been sent since you Isaac Asimov once said that Earth should ocean because the sea is its dominant feature. Our oceans are vast and dangerous and deep and mysterious. a metaphor to describe the Internet and the seemingly endless and often uncharted web of hypertext it delivered, they ran for the sea. We surf the web, navigating streams of data. There are pirates and Even blogs and vlogs have their in logs - records originally kept by Like liquid water, the web is a phenomenal solvent. It makes material widely accessible and available. It has been estimated that every web of only 19 clicks away from every other web page. Like our oceans, the web is really just one global sea. And like our oceans, the web is an ecosystem we need to be careful to protect. It is flexible and flowing, and as we are finding out, the web, like liquid water, is something In the 1990s, Douglas Rushkoff coined the term screenagers to describe a generation up to think that images on screens weren't just something to passively stare at, but, instead, were something to be manipulated. Well, today it's even more extreme. The tools and connectivity, provided by of images on screens not just as things to manipulate but as things to project our own identities onto. Not everyone who does this is a or acclaimed poet or coherent. But, content aside, hyperlinked webs of and they exercise the brain, more so than books? Well, for the sake of argument, let's read from &quot;Everything Bad is Good for You,&quot; a book by Steven Johnson. Now, in this passage he imagines a world in which books were invented after video games and the World Wide Web. Kids everywhere are starting to read books and teachers and parents are they might say something like this: &quot;Perhaps the most dangerous property of these books is the fact that they follow a fixed linear path. You can't control their narratives in and have the story dictated to you. For those of us raised on interactive astonishing. Why would anyone want to utterly choreographed by another But today's generation embarks on such millions of times a day. Reading is not an active participatory process, it's a submissive one. The book readers of the younger to follow the plot instead of learning to lead.&quot; Interesting. But you might be thinking, come on, Michael, you can't set content aside that easily. What about all the dumb and superficial I mean, surely a lot of it is just completely be valuing reason. Maybe. But is that really what makes us special? &quot;more often I have seen a cat reason than laugh or weep. Perhaps it weeps or laughs inwardly. But then perhaps, also inwardly, of the second degree.&quot; What if cheap whining and drama and selfies really are the most human thing the web has allowed us to do? That's deep. But not as deep as the Deep Web, the hidden web. The part of the web invisible to search engines. Now, most of this stuff walls or password protection or dynamically created web pages. But we haven't even indexed this stuff. it's not 10%. It's 80% of the entire World Wide Web. The web is a deep ocean and we are frantically making waves in it. emoji usage on Twitter and say a few least popular emoji. frantically. It's an entirely new Google receives 500 million search queries it has never been asked before. Where will all of this exploration lead? Who knows? But to go back to our metaphor, the depths of the ocean inspired and enabled the suits we would later use to go beyond Earth. So, keep exploring, keep surfing. And as always, thanks for watching.