&gt;&gt; Hi, everyone. Welcome to today's Authors to have a Q and A session, and I'd like in the middle of the room, if you have questions. Hitchens. Mr. Hitchens was born in England, to the US, and recently, became a US citizen. including "Why Orwell Matters" and "Letters notable public intellectuals, he has been "The Nation," "Slate" and "Free UC Berkeley, and the University of Pittsburgh. lines up the case against religion which he and a formidable style of argument that defines Michael Kinsley wrote in the New York Times, by writing a serious and deeply-thought book, lifetime. And God should be flattered; unlike Hitchens treats him like an adult. Ever contrarian, discuss the book, take your questions, and to a debate. He'll be signing books afterwards. Christopher Hitchens to Google. thank you so much for that suspiciously grudging and gentlemen, for coming. I understand we've I'll try and break the rule of a lifetime It's true that publishers sometimes want title, subtitle on a book. And so, when we poisons and why religion poisons everything, up to me, they'd say, you mean absolutely take me literally. I thought, well, all right. an author is live up to your damn subtitle. I think the title probably, when it came to does speak for itself. Unlike that sign outside sign that you see from the airport that says, a name I know but putting it like that seems what I mean? Well, here's how religion has from the childhood of our species, from the from the time when we did not know that we disc. And we did not know that we went around we didn't know that there was a germ theory for the explanation of things like famine. but because we are pattern-seeking animals, prefer even a conspiracy theory or junk theory This is and was our first attempt of philosophy, at science, and it was all founded on and about the origins, first of the universe, a great deal about the origins of the universe, had my DNA sequenced by National Geographic. incredibly important to find out how racism extraordinary scientific breakthrough, how fellow creatures originating in Africa; but including not just animal but plant, and you and how that's wonderful enough. And we Steven Weinberg and many other great physicists, Weinberg's brilliant book calls The First And we can be assured as we could probably that set the universe in motion, which is nor this amazingly complex billion dollar--billion certain it was not designed so that you and the objects of either of these plans. These to say, wouldn't know or care if we stopped the equipment, intellectual and moral, that or that is innate to us. And here's another begins by saying, well, why don't we lie to that we're not going to die, or that an if we make the right propitiations or the things like modern diseases which we can sequence the punishment for wickedness and fornication? is a divine superintendent of all this because and possibly even irrelevance that we might surrender to wish thinking? That poisons everything, very basic integrity that we need to conduct experiments, interrogations of evidence that grow. And it's no coincidence, no accident made in the teeth of religious opposition be tampering with God's design. I suppose these is the attempt to limit stem cell research. forms of scientific research and inquiry, persecution, in reprisal. Thirdly, it's important to us, our innate morality. If there's to me when I go and debate religious people, come from if there was no God? It's actually--it's wonderful novel, The Brothers Karamazov, one the wicked one, says it. If God is dead, isn't Where would our ethics be if there was no me a very profound insult to us in our very case, I submit to you, that we do not set each other right now only because we're looking for a divine reward. It's an extraordinarily On my mother's side, some of my ancestry story of Moses and Egypt or the exile or the even Israeli archaeology has shown that there any of the others; but take it to be true. got all the way to Mount Sinai, quite a trek, that rape, murder, perjury, and theft were foot of Mount Sinai, bad news, none of these I don't think so. I think, I think we can--actually, as well as better--that no one would have any other mountain or in any other direction demands that we look upon each other as brothers such as murder, rape, perjury, and theft. are not innate, the sociopaths who don't understand psychopaths who positively take pleasure in is, according to one theory, they are also of God question rather problematic, does it and better research and have to be restrained here is religion a help where it came to help Finally, I would say--not finally because Don't relax. Everyone has got to drink, something there's the real temptation of something relations which is the fear of freedom, the to do. Now, just as we all like to think and that encourage us to think that it is our be free, to be liberated, to be untrammeled. in people is the servile, is the wish to be and brutal and cruel leaders, that this other accounted for and it gives us a great deal in my view, is a reification, a distillation Ask yourself if you really wish it was true watched over you from the moment you were all through life, night and day, knew your convict you of thought crime, the absolute--the convict you for what you think or what you to yourself, that admonishes you like this supervision and doesn't even let go of you real fun begins. Now, my question is this--my true? Who wants to live the life of a serf North Korea. I'm one of the very few writers been to all three axis of evil countries, you North Korea is the most religious state I was a kid, what would it be like praising Well, now I know because North Korea is a to do that, for adoration and it's only and the son, as you know, the Dear Leader the president of the country. He's been one, is only the head of the party and the of the state. So you have in North Korea what called them mausolocracy, thanatocracy. One--just no holy ghost, but they do say that when the of Korea sang in Korean to mark the occasion. my word for it. It didn't occur and I suppose you after you're dead. You can leave North paradise by dying. To the Christian and Muslim slave. And in my point of view, it's poisonous for nearly twenty minutes. I'll be quick. have done great things and have been motivated in point I have found is that of Dr. Martin explain to you about. Two quick things on He did preach the Book of Exodus, the exile metaphor. But if he really meant it, he would Book of Exodus finds them doing, were entitled take their land and their property, enslave genocide, rape, ethnic cleansing and forcible as happening--the full destruction of the only the meant the Bible at the most to be the only book that he could be sure his audience thing. The second is, during his lifetime, many secular and leftist non-believing friends, Bayard Rustin, A. Philip Randolph. These are which leads me to my third observation which debates with rabbis, with priests of all Christian like an opening of a joke about some bar, I asked them all. Here is my--here is my challenge. was made or a moral action that was performed that could not have been made as an action not of faith, a person of no faith. You have quite a high level with the religious, no That being the case, we're entitled to say, requirements whereas if I was to ask anyone or an evil thing done by a person of faith second of hesitation in thinking of one, would that is and how much true it's getting. Does He's a slightly loopy Christian broadcaster, more Jewish than Christian--Judaic-Christian has me on the show. And he asked me a question He said, "You are to imagine that you're been before, and you have no friends and it's see coming towards you a group of men, let's know that they're just coming from a prayer to me. I said, "Well, Mr. Prager, without letter B, I can tell you I've had that experience in Bosnia, and in Bethlehem. And if you see in any of those places, you know exactly how to you why and I haven't had to waste any So I submit to you that it is those who are do, who have the justifying to do if this for anything about the origin of our cosmos we'd be without morals and make us seem if further, everybody can name an instance worse to one another and act as a retardant and information, I submit that the case to a better tradition. We're not just arid side. We can point, through the Hubble telescope, that are being taken now of the outer limits away from those pictures and start gaping microscopes that can examine for us the miracles sheer beauty of that. The natural world is conjured by the fools who believe in astrology tradition politically against the popes and right of kings and the whole long tradition that's known as theocracy. We have created the history of the world, written on founding based on the theory of human liberation and that says that there shall be a separation mentioned in the United States Constitution it out of politics and put it under legal President Jefferson whose biographer, I am Connecticut in a letter after they reasoned do you think Baptists of Danbury, Connecticut knows? HITCHENS: No, the Congregationalists of Danbury, be like, see how the Christians loved each passion of one religious sect repressing and know, the president wrote back and saud, "No, in this country a wall of separation between slogan and I'm taking it on tour and I invite "Mr. Jefferson, build up that wall." Okay, And I'm all yours. And that was 25 minutes; the questions if you like because I don't immediate family in this hole, but, Carol, &gt;&gt; &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: It's my honor. I mean you have explanations for everything. &gt;&gt; And I agree with a lot of your arguments country. I mean, I come from Croatia so I, when you say like the axis of evil and especially relate to that. But I don't understand why be enslaved, if you could explain this to you know, like set up by a minority which about the part, like, you know, like this &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Did you say you were Croatian? &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Yeah. Well, then you--then I these man-made regimes were there because what I meant at all about North Korea. Particularly, &gt;&gt; Yes. is a hermetic place unfortunately in that Zone which is several miles wide on the south have a place where you can horribly conduct You can isolate them totally. The North Korean published 1984. And you almost think that Korean and said, "Do you think we could can't be sure. We sure can give it the old there. I went there, I thought, I've had his I've had this experience twice in my life. always seem like that when you read the papers, once under the old days of the communist regime. not going to mention Franz Kafka in my essay. to do it. I went to a meeting of the opposition the secret police came in and, suddenly, wham rubber truncheons. They slammed me against to see the British ambassador. Blah, blah, We don't have to tell you that. I thought, They make you do it. Well, I--that's actually a cliche in itself. The same in North Korea; I don't want to mention Orwell; have not have stand of comparison. No, what I meant about don't of course want to live under a hellish But they, they quite like being told what doesn't--the world doesn't owe them a they--they quite like it and repeatedly vote to provide everything as long as they'll give bit. In the tradeoff, you'll get more security some cases, it takes an extreme form, and with the religious people, they will tell faith because they want someone to, if you a heavenly father, for example, is built up is dead, some say God is dad, you figure. example, the word means, the word Islam means to God. Everything is in his hands. This is But I think what's innate in most people to take care of them all of the time so it is no such person. &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Okay. bit. So is there a possibility there to say than others and is this some sort of, you you know, like, differentiating people by &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: No, I'm certain that the same day, there will be a North Korean edition there. &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: I am as sure of that as I can hard to imagine there's anyone in North of political liberty. It will come because &gt;&gt; To follow up to on this fear of freedom that horse, but what do you--what do you think that there are some--I mean it's obviously and these events are out of my control so, good things and, you know, hate the devil know, from Plato to Nietsche to Socrates--or the life where you're actually deciding and and appreciating the fact that the world doesn't you need to do with that, and it is difficult. imagine a world where everybody buys into like, where would that structure that some would they get that from? I guess what would--what this natural need? emancipating ourselves from religion and from this is what I was trying to say to the comrade the monotheistic ones, you're a miserable it, you're born as a wretch, you're made clot of blood, you're a worm, you're nothing, you got to work really hard to get away from that. So total abnegation, but there's also in mind, and God has a plan for you personally. take anymore abuse--it's like being inducted they can't take anymore humiliation, they're you to join our group. That's not good for So would everyone you know, so it's not we wouldn't. We'd be emancipated from thing to start off with. Second, we have the have instead of ancient texts that are full wonderful world literature that's available recently, I would cite you, because yesterday by the way to all Indians here. And Pakistanis, was a huge mistake. There's a--and religious to lead one day to a thermonuclear war so--I someone will ask me. There's incredible literature of a sub-branch--but I shouldn't even say writing by Indians in English. It's becoming all this extraordinary excitement. And people said, a man of one book, you know, you should anything else, they're destroying libraries that contradict the Qur'an, this is no way what the--and the consolations of philosophy very rewarding. And ethical and moral dilemmas George Eliot, Dostoyevsky, people of that condition, not a sufficient one. There are or a sadist, or a Stalinist, or a fascist, possible. Okay. But we--there are no guarantees that, that's the beginning of wisdom as &gt;&gt; One short and one longer one, I just want &quot;Captain Stormfield's Journey To Heaven&quot; by &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Sorry. Yes, I've read a lot of &gt;&gt; Yes. That seemed a sort of a definitive standard religion. too much Twain, ladies and gentlemen, on the There are websites on Mark Twain and religion. on religion even 10 years ago. Sorry. won't choke you up. Actually, I have several cases in the sciences, who became religious and then just decided they were feeling something to say on that sort of grounds or why that &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Yes. I suppose I could speculate, &gt;&gt; Of course. Hubble View, say, does have the opposite effect feel, well, then, whoever designed this must are attempts made by creationists now to say God made all this stuff.&quot; They now say, &quot;Well, too.&quot; So as you may know arguments that explain principle I think of underlying full cognition. comprehend everything, comprise everything we are certainly made in such a way to be tendency is certainly within us. And when what they feel is awe. And then what they should be acknowledging here, though that you know about &quot;awe?&quot; &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: John Wayne played the Roman centurion &gt;&gt; I don't... rain has to come down hard, and there's thunder and so on. And John Wayne standing as a centurion of God.&quot; So he does this. I forget who the cue rain, thunder and lightning, so Wayne this was the son of God.&quot; And the director's, I just wonder if we could have it with a little the veil of the temple splits into Wayne, and Wayne says, &quot;Aw, truly, this was the son &gt;&gt; So this is a kind of a follow-up on Tom's as a kind of an allegorical pagan. And he's many of which echo yours. But at the same need to be part of a circle of believers in fragile emotional demeanor. He goes through, and he finds that belief. So what he'd done obnoxious religion he could find and then say to such a person? the Church of England--or, the Unitarians, thing about them is they believe in one god He says people used to be a pagan and polytheist started believing in one god and they're going is progress. read, you seemed reluctant to endorse if not of organize the atheists under the title of &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Yes. we infidels need no such machinery of reinforcement. organize, especially if those whose ideals to--kind of steer our society the way that &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Well, I was to have said this some ways the wrong person to ask these questions. feel the belonging need anymore. I used to now feel that the need to be involved in an I probably have more influence as an individual party. A point for anyone to ponder actually independent, for example. People may fight away in advance. Separate question, and it's to a church. People who believe as I believe and remind ourselves what we believe, reinforce propositions that, you know, we're singing a fellow free-thinker when you meet one. That language as well. There will be in Washington Dawkins and Daniel Dennett and Sam Harris, going to be--Victor Stinger. Because there books on this subject now, and I think there's And let me just say this, if that Zeitgeist brought about in that Zeitgeist, it hasn't of like-minded people writing their hearts bullying. Or, to allow religious nonsense in place of science. Or to allow euphemisms of god in Iraq or elsewhere. That's what might call an intellectual tendency. I think &gt;&gt; Hi. A few of the things that you said don't in the United States. Two things in particular: you know, have Hubble telescopes and microscopes, the other thing you said is that, you know, human nature for, you know, being told what in the United States, we have the most advanced, the history of the world, and you have probably inventive--not inventing but really espousing and trying to, you know, propagate that throughout nation. Well, it's true. I mean, you can argue that like we are trying to promote democracy. nation. You have like people going to church affect who are leaders are, you know, to a contradiction? a contradiction because religious, the section pluralism. Now for example where I come from, The head of the church is the head of the an official church and you have to pay for the moment that her majesty, the Queen, expires, a bat-eared half-Muslim with no taste in, Prince Charles, who goes to classes on Islam what you get for founding a church on the States, you can't have any of that. That would church you want, the government has nothing Toquevillian view, if you like, of the church. reasons. Some of them for ethnic ones, some reasons as you might say. If you ask someone I have debated at every stop of my book tour. yes. Well, do you believe in John Calvin's Why do you want to know? Well, because you I'm a Southern Baptist, you know that kind. They--or ask the Catholics if they really the Pope tells them. Of course they don't of people in the country has been measured are atheists. By far the fastest growing, are evidently lying to the opinion polls, country; there are plenty of them. They're that they go to them, just couldn't be done, people who have doubts about religion are call them up at dinner time. They will say, not going say I sometimes wonder if John Wesley choice boxes are being gone through. So, but think that that's the way to go politically. someone is person of faith is axiomatically remember, he did it to Vladimir Putin, KGB a very dangerous man to have in charge in "Right away, well, I could tell by looking grandmother's crucifix, that he was just I think that's the stupidest thing the president regret it. And I got, tried to get a research to know something, has Vladimir Putin ever he ever been seen wearing it before? Or did president of the United States? Because if metaphysically incorrect, but as I have I of us. If our republic can be--and its president offering garlic to a vampire, then we really &gt;&gt; Just a follow-up, though, it just sounds the U.S. if you--if it's true that you scientific society, you know, you'd lose &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: All right. I'd say a bit more, design school" they want at least equal now they want equal time in schools. So, they from Washington, moves on school boards and most conservative County of Pennsylvania around in each case. And this is in Kansas, in Texas, of Pennsylvania. Thrown off the school board as flat out unconstitutional by the judges, And I don't know what they're going to they're going to do. But, I know why it work, because there may be many parents in that God made the rocks and so on and only want their children taught that in school. they get laughed at when they say where they're place where... they don't like that. It's flag issue, quite apart from the racism. A a state that had a confederate battle flag won't have their conventions in your state get laughed at when you travel, they don't up with it because of a handful of crackpots. of devout people in this country and I don't I say that the influence of religion as opposed yeah. Shouldn't--shouldn't impress people be opposed. answered one of my questions regarding organizing to get just some comments and thoughts based movement whether at the Atheist or Anti-theist if you have any suggestions for the average or a production company, but does have the &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Right. can do to either give resources to other people that you find to actually be, you know, exceptional. &gt;&gt; Furter some sort of movement, if there &gt;. HITCHEN: Yeah, my friend, Rich Dawkins does have a list which you can look up, and websites where so to say, help is available. a very important one of called, "Leaving and are afraid or are being intimidated, ways people who feel the same way. Very serious citizens now who don't feel that they do in a religion that can kill them for even this is no small matter. But I tell you what a magazine called Free Inquiry which is published I think, a very, very good rationalist and of local activities that you can look up. Skeptical Inquiry, published from nearer here, or technical bent which does things likes to be able to put you in touch with your relatives, that are often featured on primetime shows. great magicians, Penn and Teller and James And they can also show the fraudulence of of wonder awaits you. And these magazines where resistance is needed, say to the continued "Yes, children that concludes the biology studies hour and after the astronomy class time, and then the chemistry alchemy period." it? There are people think this is what should you can meet up with other people could think &gt;&gt; Yeah, two things, an observation and a you share something in common with Jesus in aspects of religion, but often in his case, you attack religion itself. And, I was... pointed out. be the first. And secondly, the bit of concern, you mentioned some of the horrible things I look at one of the greatest genocides or Union under Lenin and Stalin when in the name an enormously large number of their own people. happening if indeed you were successful? book because it is a very frequently asked one, I have to condense the chapter if I may, year of the Russian Revolution, millions of for hundreds and hundreds of years been told also the head of the church and was a little of the people. He wasn't quite divine. He everything in the country and everything was Russian society was inculcated with servile, you shouldn't be in the dictatorship business this is a huge opportunity for you, you've credulous and superstitious. Well, what does heresy hunts, trials of heretics, the Moscow agriculture that was supposed to produce three that would feed everyone in a week. He says and you must praise him at all times for his always kept the Russian Orthodox Church on some of them moved to New York and set up part of the regime, he was not so stupid as and Mussolini made an even more aggressive some of the Protestants. And remember the the Emperor of Japan, was not just a religious and Stalinism and Nazism are nothing like more religious than most people know. But that's adopted the teachings of Spinoza, Voltaire, and gone down the pits as result of doing and torture and repression. That would be the experiment I'd like to run. I don't &gt;&gt; Hi. Thank you for coming. &gt;&gt; More ladies asking questions would be awesome so we can prove Mr. Hitchens is wrong about &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: I was wondering what you would--what &gt;&gt; We are a technology company. So, I'm not advocate, what do you say to studies that who pray, who believe in God have, like, lower &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Well, I'd say it wouldn't--wouldn't not sure I would be able to trust the methodology said of being a Moonie for example. I mean, racist crackpot Nation of Islam and its sectarian it does, it may but that doesn't recommend its theology, if you see what I mean. Whereas bombing population 100% are faith based. And faith but I think it should make you skeptical &gt;&gt; Sure. There seemed to be... the same can be said. who--I used to be pretty condescending towards from them and learned about their religious you stated earlier a lot of religious people their faith says anyway. So, I feel like those and looking for a feeling of oneness with on a scientific level that bears out anyway is one and is the same. So, I feel like churches of community that I don't think exists any I had that growing up and I feel like my friends church now and there are all of these adults to nurture them as they were growing up and that. So, I'm jealous of that in a sense. but you...See me afterwards, I mean, the way about if there's any who read, who read de what he said about--about communitarianism America is so religious but it's a different it's amazing to me how many Americans change all the time, you've heard it. I used to be now I go to the Congregationalists. It doesn't if you don't stay with us you're going straight church instead. Wouldn't consider perhaps of the strength of religious allegiance. I say, Polish Catholics in Chicago or Greek a means of transmitting and preserving an the face of often quiet bleak kinds of life, Churchianity. It's expressed by the megachurches, have very stable employment or residence who Sunday they want to know where they can go and these characters are waiting for them they do have left from them. Because that's just as community and blood pressure may be breath as open fraud to an absolutely astonishing the genital mutilation community, the suicide prefer to say child rape communities, all me. &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: What's up? subjects. You expressed your regrets for this seems to desire to be dominated, to prostrate It occurs to me that the current government exploited this perverse desire and exploited appeal to it. Now, I'm strongly opposed to is the indefinite detention of so-called terrorist the way the government tries to justify this and secrecy which come of a particular religious be impertinent how you can square what you've apparently in support of this very policy. impertinent so don't worry about that. I've just I was there last month. It took me a anything about it so you won't know my views but about your question, I know what my views I didn't see or must have missed any allusion to declare them enemy combatants. You're suggesting detention policy? in my opinion the Bush administration in its power very much akin to that used by religious and this language comes up particularly strongly as Guantanamo Bay. disagreement, I mean the language they seem language of emergency powers and special circumstances a very old argument especially in the United attempt to suspend habeas corpus in the Civil argument about or with theocracy. and other times like this to me rather smack preachers. don't think you're quite carrying your if you want to discuss the question of civil from the rubric. The Bush administration is It is confronting a holy war, however. One of Guantanamo is how faith based they are, presented with this problem. The difference them as criminals, as some argue, then you war, then it's only a law and order question. what sense are these not enemy soldiers? If as criminals? Why are you holding people as I visited the room where they're going to say, "Well, thanks for having me here and point is that the Geneva Convention says that with and it's a territory no government we're apparently not allowed to do any of rendition nor can we have return them to their there by their own governments. Well, this One is not to take any prisoners. And the got no right to hold you. And neither of these as I've got now with my reasoning. all of these actions might not be unconstitutional. terms but in language such as extraordinary &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Yeah, I do dislike that very to point out to me that Lincoln's suspension for example. And I certainly don't think constitution to suspend habeas corpus. Only it can't be suspended. The Congress has a stickler for that kind of thing. Call me &gt;&gt; Well, I feel I've taken up a little too &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: A very welcome question, believe &gt;&gt; I would posit that the Bush administration from using genuine religious language in the terror and I believe the word crusade was Bush, it's not been used since. And we remember infinite justice. Another rejected piece of by some careful PR person. &gt;&gt; Hi. Thank you very much for coming. I was many people have probably find to be a less on art, music and creativity and how those things that formed communities that maybe composers throughout history always dedicating and I'm just curious how you view these things the beauty that you suggested you can find be more suited, more fitting in with religion. be devalued in this new system or any--with &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Yeah, we don't know, of the Cathedrals for example or the, even the Great architects who built them that they were themselves of God. We just know that at the time you didn't affirm that. And certainly we know "What God?" That would not just be the don't know that about... We don't know we don't know if they were believers, or I'm on stronger ground here as a literary like John Donne or George Herbert, it would you weren't a believer. It would be extremely from? And my feeling is that it's real devotional it. We'd be much poorer. To stay with the version of the bible, the King James translation, as the St. James translation, is itself a be without it, if you don't understand the Shakespeare and of Milton and Blake you wouldn't So it's part of literacy to know it. I once building for western civilization, great deal and by its symmetry and by its extraordinary care about the culture of Pallas Athena and some of them involving animal sacrifice and road from Eleusis. And I don't have to care to the Greek colonies in the rest of the Mediterranean. know about the philosophical context and the that were going on at the same time without that what culture largely means to us now great creativity in a post-supernatural era. of value without having to care about the be forced to bear in mind that say, St. Peter's a building, was built by special set of indulgences, We can consider that independently now. We Though I always find it's somewhat hard &gt;&gt; Right. Okay. I was just curious, I mean things in art and music and creativity are spiritual or something along that nature whether &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: I wanted to say a bit more of the human need for the transcendent, for the supernatural. It's very important to understand. and music, or landscape and music in combination. has had extraordinary consequences for many are the things we can't do without but there's You're not glimpsing anything but nature &gt;&gt; Thank you. Thank you. trail back for a lot of these things, this you'll eventually find political organizations these bases... &gt;&gt; What they'd like to do is to get these And in lot of the discussions we have in your attacking people versus attacking ideas, right? not going after people and not making people idiots for example? All right. How do you &gt;&gt; HITCHENS: Well, I think my answer's been &gt;&gt; All right. hurt their feelings I'm still waiting to &gt;&gt; Right. country you can be told that's offensive or comment, not to me they don't, and I'm to pretend to like people when I don't. &gt;&gt; Hello. Oh, thank you so much for speaking. right outside over here. So, if everyone got for coming.