Today, I'm just gonna do the most try-hard thing load up a worldwide, and see how much I can win. in this room. We have a Mario Teddy Buggy, Kamek tires. This is just everyone's favorite combo. see if I can lose. There's not as many Yoshi's the VR in this room, but that gives me the good players in this room. That's so unfortunate everyone just uses it. And it kind of makes sense uh, it's very common to look at the mini-map and if everyone's using the same combo. That's part using Yoshi even though there are four characters good, like, I still like the King Boo one more, I one is still amazing, and it is most people's Oh, that sucks. Alright, well, I'm gonna do a but if I'm gonna focus at my most, I need to do time I actually have to just go complete autopilot complex or I'm explaining something, um, and so I okay, I managed to get past them, that's nice actually pretty close to hitting me. Okay, this Um, what should I do? I should just hold this, I can still pass you with my mushroom. And now they know the mushroom. [laughs] Pick up a red shell right now- yeah, and I Still have a red shell. Okay, well, I got second starting on the next race, I'm only gonna talk results. No random nonsense. Alright, I found a Uh, a Yoshi Teddy Buggy only one. I don't know how Alright, wow, that draft actually slowed me where it cancels out your mini turbo. Let's I got hit by the trail anyway. I was gonna go Uh, like on one hand, I don't like bagging all the track, I'm not gonna be able to do the G\gap about this track. Okay, so this is not off to a Promise you, I'll be fine. [laughs] This track is there's some mushrooms. Oh banana! Ugh. And it's Luckily, the super bounce Oh, I got so much air, that was so nice. Okay, mushroom. Oh, I have two mushrooms in first, Super bouncing away from my competitors. Oh, might actually be okay. I still have a mushroom Yeah, they're not taking the gap jump, huh. There stop focusing on all the other aspects. Let me forget--uh, ignore the coins unless they're in my Oh, what? I got my banana out. That's so annoying! you serious? This just happened. I'm bagging. that's why I completely stopped moving. So, we're That was the worst possible start to the race. I need to get my coins up, I'm gonna go wide Make sure it's faster and I need to bag all the way until the best spot to use not gonna get rid of this golden, but by the I think I'm close enough to kind of make a probably would have been smarter to chain items, And we're gonna go over here, and Okay, and, uh, wow, first and second place and then do this. [Music] Oh, I--I made a mistake I should have used my star I should have though. Oh, I have a boo! Nice, I'm Okay, okay, I could win. No, probably No, no, no! Oh, they have a mushroom too. Okay, to you at the start, you should never expect Almost everyone left the room, so I'm considering stay in here and see what happens by next race I haven't practiced this one very much. There we gives a big advantage to this combo over my main start that launches me past the first sponge, But with Yoshi, it's really easy, because I have Charging orange mini turbo here, so I'm make sure. Yeah, here I'm holding right mini turbo charge because you can charge in you just can't start a drift in midair, so you ground and then get your mini turbo in midair. Um, I'm considering going up to the blue Whenever I turn small, I start thinking when you're small going forward is worth not as Okay, so there's been no blue Oh, I didn't get the orange mini turbo. So that's something that happens And then during that section when I'm falling, so I'm holding down a little bit, but I'm also and to the side, now I'm soft drifting holding this is- just toss that, oh no, it bounced so who dodged in the glider. And I'm gonna grow please. Uh, too good, too good. Oh no, my Shy Guy it's just me now. Just me holding it down. an interesting combo, but now I'm just playing trust me I picked this combo out of my and I think the Teddy Buggy is cute. It's not Um, yeah, it's coming soon enough, Perfect, get my speed back. [Music] Alright I managed to stay in first place, luckily. Um, I a mushroom to pop out, but it's rare that it pops the fact that it popped out and then actually grab someone else made it pop out, and if I make a mushroom- look, I can't- how Um, so if I make a mushroom pop out, it just helps in last place, gets a mushroom to pop out, it's a very interesting mechanic, I actually I used to try to hit the bushes, and then at there's no point, it's not gonna work. Super horn I'm guaranteed to dodge this blue shell because a Oh, I could have went for that mushroom. Okay, supposed to go inside here. That boost panel hopefully, no blue shell, no red shell, like, I, and of course, I'm gonna have to take the item Yeah! I miss my Shy Guy friend. Look at Oh, I went so high, so the red shell would knock the bottom path. I mean, I wanted top path, but this video. Okay, I joined a new room, we have person with Yoshi Teddy Buggy. Stan- sounds about know what I'm going for. Hopefully, I can figure I don't know how to play this track. [laughs] All How do we do this? Like this... and we hold down, and we made it. Yes, Not another one. Not another one! Oh, that's annoying. Well, I want double item box, and we're doing the path switch like an idiot no! It did- it hit them on my screen, nooo! I got first place in my head. Peach and actually, not now that I think about there's so many combos now I could I'd use that before because I've so, if I'm in a bagging situation on this and so we're gonna go this way. Oh, we have Let's hit someone, taking all the coins. Okay, Okay, well, we're just going Everyone's taking my coins. Chain items. Um okay, for coins. This was stupid, now I'm in the middle And go for these coins, wow, it's actually okay, maybe I shouldn't have used the I'm still going around. I'm gonna keep bagging, a push for the front at this very moment. I don't we're in third already. You know what? I'm just little harder, but I naturally got into third. with the red shell, so I just did that shroomless I was watching the other person, I wasn't Mini turbo trick. All right, I'm right behind gonna have- I'm gonna go to the left here and take the trains, and there we go, we're in first if a blue shell comes, it actually deletes all before because I will dodge the blue shell with my Here, let's just do this for fun. Okay, I know I said I was gonna focus, I'll focus better room, I keep ending up in rooms like this. like, I'm clearly at a higher level if I'm in a I'm doing like a separate recording session now. such a front-running track and I didn't even I've played with 20,000 VR players before, I know Nintendo's just not letting me play with them. Teddy Buggies and a Waluigi Wiggler [laughs] so anyone who's a Waluigi Wiggler player All right, nice! I'm about to find out what's the just join a new room, when look at what the VR is I'm gonna stay here. It's a good room, I'm gonna and then we get Sky High Sundae, are you serious? like getting to actually practice Mario Kart. exists. It's just the biggest Baby Park ever with but at least Excitebike Arena has a shortcut. cones over there only is good on 200cc. So I'm in first place, it's good for me, I shouldn't still gonna be in second after this because the okay, we're getting Mario Karted. [laughs] that happened. Okay, so, um, unfortunate, I did some of the good people left, I just got in this found myself in a new room again, and there are which means this must be a pretty good room. shortcut at lap one just because it's gonna be let's go for it. The red shell didn't go for I want to trail this, there's another item set so close to each other. I just wanted to increase Yoshi on Yoshi violence. Pretty sure I have a comfortable lead now where spam items and shock obviously still can. Oh what the-that's All right, wow, I'm like not even releasing I've gotten so much better at that shortcut with Baby Mario, someone used the dumbest shock okay, maybe I shouldn't- I don't know, but I This is what happens when I'm not focusing, Uh-oh, oh at least I'm not They actually got hit! [laughs] someone's All right, here we are in first. Oh, they tried do that, there goes your protection. I'm gonna getting hit by the spin out of the shock so caught him back, I've hit this blue Yoshi a couple we have two really good players, that works for the last couple times I played this track were a I just remembered they were bad, [laughs] so I'm got a purple mini turbo, okay, I might have A little motion glider saved me, don't try that So this blue Yoshi Japanese player, but they're actually pretty good, place last race and they're, they're Oh, that was so bad that I hit them, I'm when I mess up and that's why somebody else gets Um, I don't like this boomerang right gonna try and snipe me with it, they're so obviously I'm not gonna throw this red shell Oh, I almost got bumped off! Spin boosting is Okay, we're going this way and I didn't the boomerang and good choice, I'm in first I'm all here for it, I know all about that. good player right? You're a good player, you're I thought I heard a boomerang Love when they lag between the item not gonna trail this or it incentivizes them to we go. What do you have? I can't see. This blooper red shell, I just didn't know if it had an item slightly better item here because of the distance here or it may be two red shells, I think I No, the red shell still made it to me. Oh, there's still won, okay, the bomb saved me. No, that was not have broken both red shells, so the fact that so I managed to maintain first, that was great! what? The blue Yoshi in third, the Japanese do the same thing. Okay, so they're front running, to hit them. I mean, I'm not gonna go out of my this is why I gotta fro- well I don't know, I'm back up to the front would just be to bag, so I'm work out, it backfired. [laughs] Sorry, we're Oh, so many coins, nice. First one up to the that spot? That's annoying. [Music] I'm gonna third. Just don't want them to get a breakaway, Oh, apparently dodge everything. so I just need a mushroom to Oh, where are they? Oh, they took the shortcut green shells. Okay, this will protect me against And the blue shell is gonna hit All right, come on, come on. No, they have I need red shells. I don't care, I It was a good idea! Let's go! [laughs] [Music] Okay, so again, I'm in first place, not gonna and I'm going to go into the water, Snaking is um it's not that much faster really slow combo, but if you have to go in it lets you take a curvy path I'm just trying to get all the coins that I don't might retell me, I didn't see what item they have. Ugh that trick is kind of hard to hit for no it doesn't look difficult. I wonder if there's Still no blue shell, that's crazy, but I'm it's a little safer. [Music] So the glider the blue shell came a little late, then it allows me to get launched forward instead but if I was on the glider when I got hit, Okay, this is dangerous, they could have multiple Oh, nice, that shock's great! So somebody doing it, but I think the blue Yoshi hit me I'm catching them, I'm catching them. Do you tricked, you didn't get an orange mini Okay, but now they've caught up somehow, Okay, so I'm not going for double item box, a better line, keep my lead, this is quite a front Did it hit them? No, it was lag. Okay, well, I not run into that wall. What do you [Music] okay, I have a super horn, so I'm I'm not gonna use this. Oh, they're I thought they're gonna go for double item box you can't slow down on a glider. Ha ha! Don't try done to you, you don't even swerve left, [laughs] Um, I know that Japanese and Canadian people Clearly today we have seen which please get both. I trailed it, no, are you