This is a world of incredible One that knows no mercy. And where Life here has always been In a world where in summer, the nights are full of magic and color. locations in this inhospitable terr Northwest Passage to Alaska. We meet people who sense that and those who are changing it. This is a world in which the the Arctic. While taking risky maneuvers at full looks for a passage There's ice coming. It's a race against time. Sea ice. So we're looking A northeasterly wind that's drives large amounts of drift ice The freezing headwind makes travel sheets closer and closer together, almost 700 kilometers in the stranded in the Arctic. Together of the most isolated and A week before we'd departed Iceland Arctic Ocean. Our destination: 800 kilometers away from The descent in itself is breathtaking. one of the fjord's branches, we land an American oil firm which withdrew the runway remains. We have to continue our journey by trip takes close to two hours. afternoon like this, who'd imagine The colorful houses of beacons between the rocks and the ice. incredible beauty of the Arctic. And The icebergs often as It's more than 40 kilometers from side of the fjord. 350 people live in Ittoqqortoormiit; work directly or indirectly government to keep the There's a church, hospital, sports along with what might be the pitch. Its artificial turf is the rubble and snow. They've even just opened an outdoor only the second one in all of to the sound of techno music, even That still needs some improvement. How warm is the water? Around ten degrees. Ten degrees? Isn't it too cold for the kids? That's cold, but we're At the small weather station, they're they do every day at 11 each time as hundreds of weather Andreasen runs the station. He's lived but says things have changed The weather systems have changed. humidity, the precipitation changed. It's been a lot warmer rain in summertime. The climate thousand kilometers south of us when Above the village there's a Even if it's getting warmer here, in the summer they still dig extra who die in winter, when the Suddenly there's excitement in the guns and everyone's on their feet. watch. The narwhals are here. Those who aren't in the boats the hunters which way to go. Time and again, the whales after them. The sound of large-caliber The hunters fear the smell of the To keep them away from the dead whales are hauled onto an Outside one of the cabins we meet the action with binoculars. Her brother Agalu are taking We ask her why people here So, what role does narwhal It's very important for our own eat the meat and you make oil you eat it. And if you're good jewelry from, you know, the tooth. Mette invites us to stay for lunch. children's favorite. Mette tells recent years. And asks if we'd like fjord in the coming days. We travel almost 400 kilometers at 50 or 60 kilometers an hour, After four hours of a very cold -- journey, we take a break The silence is only broken by While her youngest son Brian keeps which can appear out of nowhere at biggest changes she's observed The glaciers, the last years, have years ago until now, it can Then, suddenly, two polar bears potentially extremely dangerous lucky for us we're sitting safely in bears this year's bag quota I don't want to go nearby, claws. But I like the meat. As small pieces of the meat and rice. It's very good! Polar bear goulash! Our journey up the fjord continues. magical world of ice for two days. But this isn't a family holiday -- even year-old Brian drives us to our Isn't Mette worried? I was afraid when he was five little. But his father wanted him to And did he already shoot? He knew how to shoot when As often as they can, they bring their them how to survive here in the how to hunt and fish, how to creep muskox. And how to adapt to the It have been a river here, but it's the water here, next to the camp. snow and glacier up here in the It's because it's warmer and we And the winter season, it's warmer The next morning we need to move and that could prove dangerous. So 350 kilometer return trip ahead stranded in the Arctic. Mette's crossing the ice floes, looking How is it? Good? Not good. Our biggest worry now is that boats. They risk being destroyed by there's no way to get back. We have to turn around. In an who are also stuck. We launch our drone to get a better the other hunters examine our images. -- there's thick pack ice all the way out of here so quickly. We set up out for polar bears. The hunters Mette cuts the narwhal skin and easier to chew. It's fresh, it's caught yesterday? It tastes a bit like chewing gum. Yeah, it's very good. It's good to keep us warm now, don't know how long. After being stuck here for two days, The family has made a decision. Age tells us Agalu will bring children and one hunter in one boat. Mette and Age want the children to get too cold out here and the polar They plan to follow us as soon as Their boat is too big It's a tiring and Anyone who falls into the water It's hard for us to judge exactly We drag our boat over the pack ice. All the time we're could crack or that someone We make our way from ice floe to ice little ice-free passage to use the getting in and out of the This isn't normal for the middle of making life difficult for the Inuit. over many generations, which conditions, is becoming unreliable. Did it happen to you before? No, that's the first time for me. Really? Yeah. Late that evening, after hours A helicopter arrives to pick us up. say goodbye and make sure we're OK. the bay. And, after two nights on the We leave Ittoqqortoormiit, deeply beauty. The path to the landing This is Yellowknife, Canada -- at the travelling with the 2nd battalion unit which supports Canada's It's been a long trip from kilometers, with stops in Quebec Cambridge Bay in the Canadian Arctic. We're taking part in operation patrol the Northwest Passage. be more isolated. The two Griffon military helicopters element of surprise. You can see the vast area we North: there's thousands of miles. can't cover it all, so patrols like of what other vessels are The helicopters head out over the a cargo ship and radio identify itself. The He asks why the helicopter is there. helicopters would middle of the night. We ask the questions! The guy just wasn't too clear on it. They may have been surprised by them and the mild interrogation. The freighter was properly -- anyone travelling Passage should expect Back at command central, Reconnaissance patrols are to be the Northwest Passage area approximately In order to maintain our of the year there's no ice, so we want to make sure we can in the air, with the air force maritime activity. It's also for the Russian submarines? Yeah, there's a difference fishing boat, right? So one of the two require?they require The base of their operations is Cambridge Bay, it's part of the joint System. Roughly 2-thousand people kind of rough-and-tumble Arctic nowhere that's kept alive with Canadian government. Most of the people here live government subsidies. Fishing for paying jobs here. People can earn weeks' work. But the fishing Northwest Passage and are often At the dock in Cambridge Bay we their catch. We ask if they've Northwest Passage that have I heard stories of our elders, something out in the distance, of a sudden, it just submerges, Coppermine area. We know, based on some sightings the Russians do come in the know. And it's been in the news, the government of Canada, somehow, not make a big deal out know a lot more than they say. At an observation post we meet the North, Brigadier General Patrick troops, who are conducting He explains how hard it is to Canada's North. If you take that area of land, it's So, in that area, there's only about 72 different communities. communication, transportation, challenge in the North -- and His troops are always accompanied Inuit who work with the military. They're critical, because, if you The rangers are really the eyes North. They give us a lot of going on in the Arctic. The Canadian Armed Forces permanently stationed here in the the help of the Arctic rangers Along with two Arctic rangers and a transferred to an outpost -- on The pilots ask us if we get airsick. lots of people start to feel queasy They fly low and fast. For more than hour, we travel over lakes . Sometimes it feels like we We have to disembark quickly. The This is to be our camp for the next small island in the middle of the bushes for protection. We're fully which often changes from Night has fallen. On slightly higher up position. Using infrared devices search for hot spots on the icy detected from great distances away. Would you see a submarine If it's up, we would see it. But I know that we have some us. Not here, but at the other place. But they don't show us that: The next morning, this the horizon. They've just It's right there. We saw it coming It's hard to see, but it's right Holy c**p! He's watching you guys. Amy and Allen load their guns. The The soldiers are guests here -- and as an occupying force. So, they leave Ok. So what will you If it's getting too close, But, for now, the bear Suddenly a dense fog moves in from -- around 3 degrees Celsius. Allen to lift. It looks like we're, once time on a small island When it's foggy, let's say we're time they cannot really take themselves. So, if they cannot So, they won't take that risk. A few days later the skies have The Brigadier General He and his staff have Any more bear sightings? No, we haven't seen But of course it's not bears that They're merely a The strategic challenge is that resources and the immensity presence over such a large The Arctic boasts a wealth of copper, iron, oil, gas -- and fish! and the ground is thawing, it's treasures. They're in great demand presence here can protect their Canada, the second-largest country here in the Far North at We continue on our journey, kilometers westwards to Fairbanks, 800 kilometers to Deadhorse, It's now early October and we're on just a mix of mud and gravel. It's most dangerous roads. Crossing the Yukon River, we head the route of the Trans-Alaska Brooks Range, a thousand-kilometer runs right across northern Alaska. Halfway along the route we hit station in the middle Until the mid-1990s, the Dalton traffic. Anyone wanting to use it companies. Now truck drivers tell more tourists. Most come here in but they often As beautiful as it is, as nice as it it is very dangerous, you know. unprepared. Just think about it, in this weather. I felt people nothing; they have light jackets, just not very smart. Yeah, pretty much. We drive further into the mountains. last few days -- unusual for early village that boomed during the relics from the days when the Alaska Pipeline were being Just 14 people still live in Wiseman, and it's only October. Here In his cabin, Jack Reakoff is telling life in the wilderness, and how he It's a heavy caliber 8.6 mm. This it goes. The bullet hits the right through here, right through through the lung, the heart lung and all the blood keeps soon you have no blood But Jack tells us the hunting's I had a 15 day, climbed a lot of country with hardly anything in it. Jack came to Wiseman in 1971 with to build the Dalton Highway. Jack no more moose up We've now had three deep snow meters of snow annihilates the melted on top and then froze. snow to their chest and cutting snow. The snow had thick crust And it looks like this might be too much snow for early October. The moose population doesn't have snows occur every four or five years, Jack shows the Chinese tourists popular photo motif. We asked here to the Far North. Chinese people become richer want to see the outside world. Hopefully I can see As they try to drive away, we hope Lights tonight. The The night sky is clear---and full of show commences?gradually becoming The next morning, we continue our Arctic Ocean -- following the Trans For hours, we fight our way across central Alaska from the At the northern foot of the Brooks Scientists from around to research the changes Jeb Timm manages the station. He snakes that can survive the winter There's no denying It's hard to argue with and I'm surrounded by science; I grew up little bit of a redneck. You know, snow machines. But it's hard to and the glaciers that I see know, just how much warmer our Jeb says it's one thing that it's happen as a result of this will There's enough permafrost up layer -- that 20-, 30-meter layer gonna drop about 30 He says it hasn't got to that yet, but stresses that he's no expert. Romanovsky, one of the world's Romanovsky, who advises the situation's quite clear. You already have 35 years of period of time, we started this minus 8; now it's minus 4 on the from 2013 to 2014 we have a warming, where whole sites substantial warming. Should this continue, it could energy supplies around the globe -- and gas supplies come In many permafrost areas, There are some big chunks of these chunks are melting the very, very uneven surfaces. And exist, where this subsidence extraction infrastructure. Heading north, the Trans-Alaska mountains and across tundra. A region of Then we pull into Deadhorse -- and the one big muddy mess?.and much The Dalton Highway ends in Deadhorse, Terry Underhill is one of the few store and -- like everyone here -- to work for two weeks, That's the rhythm of life here. She tells us she's a big fan of Donald Obama made it so you can't drill outlawed a lot of stuff. He put a which made it to where they when Trump came along and lifted us drill offshore again, again. So, it was almost dead. But now Deadhorse has been brought The workers' camps are fully booked. on stilts -- like everything here Because the land here lies just the upper layers of permafrost gravel is spread to The question is: How All this infrastructure was built to be eventually be burned and it will increase the rate of thawing more and more problems for the designed and built to So that's the kind of irony here. We board a private plane for supplies, the situation. The oil companies even though we'd approached them kilometers, huge plants come in to permafrost. All connected through this swampy landscape? Even offshore, in the there are drilling platforms. Bob, our pilot, tells us normally year things have changed: Is this normal or is this unusual? No, it's very unusual. It's not seen the ice all summer. Bob says it keeps getting warmer here. the ground isn't already Are there not already any infrastructure and the oil fields? Yes, but it's not official ask us not to talk. But, yes, they maybe they're selling. They're selling Oil giant BP is withdrawing from and more oil fields are being Our journey around the Arctic Circle For some, they're the promise for others, they're We've travelled thousands of isolated region -- a world that's other on Earth. A world that will determine the future raw materials and climate life more unpredictable by the day. Should the permafrost and ice crust different one. And the knowledge is already losing its significance. Here, in the Arctic!