"I didn't say it would be easy, Neo. I just said it would be the truth." The genius of "The Matrix" is care about dry, In the Wachowskis' 1999 film who realizes he's living the deepest intrigue doesn't lie but in why it happens "Remember...all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more." At the heart of this story are questions like: Do we actually want the truth? And can human beings be free? Such abstract inquiries become tangible, as Neo progresses from nihilism and becomes &quot;The One&quot; -- the only person with the potential from their machine overlords. This tightly structured Hero's journey is [Solemnly] "There is no spoon." packaged as a gripping, 20 years later, here's our Take and why it's a guide which can help us uncode "Free your mind." This video is brought to you by MUBI - a curated streaming service showing It's like your own personal streaming anytime, anywhere. [Exhales deeply] "Okey-doke... The first Matrix movie has the truth shall set you free. "It was he who freed the first of us... Let's take a look at Neo's steps On closer inspection, Dreaming, Destruction, Reconstruction, Step 1: Dreaming of The Question "Have you ever had a dream, Neo, What if you were unable to wake Neo's quest for truth begins When we first meet him, while his computer runs a search fittingly named Someone in Neo's computer tells him to Neo's not quite ready to do this yet, and the two sequences following this unsure if he's just had Neo complains of an inability "You ever have that feeling if you're awake And when he finally meets Morpheus speaks "You have the look of a man because he is expecting to wake up. Ironically, this is not far The twist is that up until now "You've been Neo's mentor Morpheus in the unseen forces of the world, in direct opposition that use the eyes and His ship is called a nod to an ancient Babylonian King, gave the wise men of his kingdom of not just interpreting his dream, but also telling him So, "The Matrix" tells us that is the beginning of the path "You're here because you know something. What you know, you can't explain. But you feel it. You've felt it your entire life." This mysterious inner compass before our rational minds "Such shaping fantasies that apprehend Neo's intuition and dreams Interestingly, we gather began their journeys "You know the question, "What is the Matrix..." So, what starts all these rebels-to-be a growing awareness of this invisible thing "the Matrix." "There's something wrong with the world. You don't know what it is, but it's there. Like a splinter in your mind." "The Matrix?" The ability to sense the Matrix, can be perceived by the senses, "A prison that you cannot smell might remind us of the story they're surrounded by water. "How's the water? And the two and then, eventually, one of them &quot;What the hell is water?&quot;" To have the initial capacity you have to question the obvious -- "The point of the fish story is important realities that are hardest "You think that's air The next phase of Neo's enlightenment "It is the world to blind you from the truth." shattering the illusions "You are a slave, Neo." What's untrue must die. This phase begins with the *choice* to remain in his comfortable, "The story ends. You wake up in your bed and believe whatever or to "wake up." "You stay in wonderland and I show you Until this point, just meeting each other but the red pill allows Morpheus' team in the field where machines grow As Neo's false conceptions of reality "This can't be..." "Be what? Be real?" the disruption to his mind is "He's going into arrest." This is the first death and rebirth [Hoarsely] "Am I dead?" "Far from it." Like a baby, "Your muscles have atrophied. We're rebuilding them." and to begin thinking for himself - as symbolized [Hoarsely] "Why do my eyes hurt?" "You've never used them before." Neo's training is Morpheus tells Neo, "Don't think you are. KNOW you are." Because the thinking that's him back of the machines and their agents. "Like gravity. What you must learn than the rules of a computer system." This is something Even if we're not yet ready are we not also unnecessarily restricted what we deem possible? At the beginning of the movie, the power of the Agents seems They are manifestations "Yet their strength are still based in a world Because of that, they will never be And the implication is that we, if we unlearn our limitations. Once we start to un-believe. "Do you believe that... has anything to do After this period of destruction, Reconstructing a new reality from scratch. This is visualized against a blank white background, where they have the ability "This is the construct. It's our... We can load anything For the first time, This phase has a lot in common of Existentialism, which grapples with the idea At first humans tend to despair as they find themselves in a world But, Existentialists don't see this They view freedom as because we get to One of the fathers of Existentialism, conceived of a grand hero who would create to give higher meaning Sound familiar? "There was a man born inside... whatever he wanted... "The Matrix" is essentially about or the One. [Through telephone] "You are THE ONE, Neo." This question of whether he's the One brings him to the fourth phase Self-Knowledge. "It's Latin... Means &quot;Know thyself.&quot; Morpheus brings Neo whose name alludes The Oracle seems to tell Neo "But you already know "I'm not the one." "Sorry, kid." In fact, though, is that the answers "Being the One is No one can tell you you're in love, We can't arrive Neo can't know he's the One and that's why the Oracle strategically others have been building "If you are... "No one's ever made the first jump." "Yeah, I know. But, what if he does?" Instead, she prepares Neo "In the one hand, and in the other hand Her words might strike us as off-topic. Why is she focusing on this, instead of talking more a declaration of But the information the Oracle gives him it's a test, "She told you exactly That's all." While it's tempting to know we're not supposed to rationally before it comes to pass. Prophecy is only valuable insofar we can draw on, as we form self-knowledge from within, "Sooner or later just as I did, between knowing the path In fact, we get a subtle hint Neo will develop into the One -- "I can see why she likes you." "Who?" And we later learn that the man Trinity loved "The Oracle told me that... I would fall in love with that man. The man that I love would be the One." It's pretty clear from early on that The real question is why he is. Is this the story of Neo discovering or deciding that he is? Are we free to decide our own fates? "Do you believe in fate, Neo?" "No." "Why not?" "Because I don't like the idea When the Oracle anticipates "...And don't worry about the vase." "What vase?" She raises this unknowable issue of "What's really going to would you still have broken it The Oracle's role in the story isn't to She disproves our assumption "And she's never wrong." [Sighing] "Try not to think of it She is a guide, Neo." She predicts patterns for the randomness Her vision of destiny, "Do you think you are the one?" When she meets Neo, he doesn't believe in himself. So, he's not there yet. The necessary elements but Neo will also have to decide "You got the gift, but it looks The fifth step of the Philosopher's journey "You have to let it all go, Neo. Fear, doubt, and disbelief." Neo's doubt is symbolized This is seen already "There are two ways out of this building one is that scaffolding, the other is in their custody." And pre-liberated Neo During his training, This time he makes the choice to jump, So, the fall demonstrates that his own capabilities just yet. "Everybody falls the first time." The problem of doubt is embodied who whispers in tempting them to submit "Tired of this war, tired of fighting... I'm tired of the ship, being cold, of eating the same Cypher rejects The Truth, "I know this steak doesn't exist." choosing instead to descend back "Ignorance is bliss." Through Cypher, "The Matrix" that mankind truly wants "I choose the Matrix." The character forces us to consider, a difficult but free life, "I know what you're thinking-- Many of us secretly prefer the lie if that illusion maintains and protects us from suffering. "Most of these people are not ready And many of them are so inert... that they will fight to protect it." "The Matrix" suggests that most of us As we learn in "The Matrix Reloaded," only 1% of people have minds "99 percent of all as long as they were even if they were only aware Cypher wants badly for Neo to fail. "You never did answer me before... We get the sense he may know to some that Trinity would love the One, because he keeps asking her "You don't? Do ya?" "All I want is a little 'yes' or 'no.'" Even though he believes in nothing, "If Morpheus was right, I can pull this plug. I mean, if Neo is the One, some kind of a miracle to stop me..." In pursuit of this certainty, he murders several of his fellow rebels before he's killed. Yet, Cipher's own death here is redundant. He was already about to by erasing his agency to become mindless fodder "I go back to sleep. And when I wake up, I won 't remember Cypher's desperate need for proof stems from his knowledge deep down Choosing ignorance Anyone who's plugged into the Matrix making them a tool "The very minds of the people But until we do, of that system, and that makes them our enemy." No amount of rational knowledge can it can only be defeated "I know that's what it looks like, I can't explain to you why it's not." The moment when Neo discovers belief is the plot start to turn in his favor. "That's why I have to go." "Why?" "Because I believe in something." After Morpheus is captured and tortured for the access codes to Zion the Resistance considers No one has ever beaten an Agent, so, they're certain Neo then decides to do the impossible - "I believe I can bring him back." It's no accident that this is the choice it's the crucible in which his true nature He still doubts he's the One. "I'm not the one, Trinity." Neo doesn't have the ego he's the savior but when the mentor he loves and admires he unconsciously and irrationally showing that he does know he just doesn't know he knows it yet. "So, what do you need "Guns. Lots of guns." The three main characters -- are all driven by beliefs. "Morpheus believed something. And he was ready to give his life I understand that now." Meanwhile, Cipher's weakness comes The very last thing he says is: As Stephen Faller observes just as Neo's name is Cypher's name is an alternate spelling It's fitting that these two opposite the two digits of the binary system, This suggests that, ultimately, boils down to just two - believe in something, [Angrily] "Believe it or not, you're still going to burn!" "The Matrix" posits that faith is It's something no one "Let me tell you what I believe-- Morpheus means more to me I believe if you are serious you are going to need my help." that no one can argue you out of. "...if you don't like it, Steadfast belief in his mission makes Neo able to dodge bullets "How did you do that?" "Do what?" "You moved like they do." Yet, Neo's still hit by a bullet, "I wasn't fast enough." Trinity comes to his rescue, "Dodge this." foreshadowing how she will provide to complete his philosophical journey When Agent Smith takes over in the subway tunnel just after due to his growing faith, he stands his ground against an agent. At this point, you might say that Neo's belief makes him But he's not yet surpassed the Agents. After all, they wholly believe, too - as software programs they have (the equivalent of their DNA). Smith keeps calling him to cast off his slave name [Grunting] "My name is Neo." He is, at last, "What is he doing?" "He's beginning to believe." Even though Neo wins this fight, the agent can just stop the train Thus, Neo runs again. but just before he's taken by surprise. He flatlines. In this moment, that either Morpheus or he would die, But, we're about to find out her words' deeper meaning was obscured Neo wasn't yet the One because he had and be reborn as someone new. (In fact, his name "Neo" "But it looks like "What?" "Your next life, maybe." The last and most crucial step of [Whispering] "You can't be dead. You can't be... because I love you." Another "fact" is that death in the Matrix "The body cannot live However, the physical sensations So, Trinity's love in the real world, to separate his real mind leads to his resurrection. "Now get up." Belief made him but belief powered by love is "No." Now, he fulfills Morpheus' "...that I can dodge bullets?" "I'm trying to tell you you won't have to." Armed with agency, Neo sees through the Agents' to the pure code This is a visualization of seeing into the very essence of things. Now that he can glimpse this total truth, And after he goes inside an Agent finally, the Agents run from him. During this sequence, [Screaming] underlining that this infinite "How?" "He is THE ONE." We've seen hints throughout that as the Christ narrative. "Jesus Christ-- he's fast!" He dies and is resurrected, Or - "THE trinity?" You can also associate with the three figures of the trinity-- "Morpheus, you're more than You're a father." the son, "Hallelujah. You're my savior, man. My own personal Jesus Christ." and the holy spirit. The name plate of the Resistance's ship &quot;And whenever unclean spirits they fell down before him 'You are the Son of God.'" Neo is betrayed by a Judas figure who comes to spread a world-altering Neo's defeat of the agents signifies culminating in love, the most irrational value of all. At the very end, The significance of this isn't just it's telling us to rage against And in the last shot, this imagery is reminiscent who could ascend to heaven The image is a visualization of how "A world without rules and controls, Neo is not on the surface "Not too bright, though." So, it might strike us as jarring so immediately convinced Why this guy? "The door on your left. No, your other left!" But there's hidden significance The point isn't that he's the only One it's that we all have a "One" within. Transcendental poet "God dwells in thee... Clouded and shrouded there doth sit The Infinite Embosomed If we walk these steps we can begin to access "Do not try and bend the spoon. Only try to realize the truth." And we can learn from Neo that to waking up "There is no spoon?" "Then, you'll see that It is only yourself." God, Truth, The One - "The Matrix" sends this within yourself is untold power, "A world where anything is possible..." Watch out for our next video unpacking and how they explain The Matrix Hey, guys! This is Alani. And today, one of our favorite places MUBI is a treasure trove of films. Every day, MUBI premieres a new film. Whether it's a movie or one you've never there is always So, in this world to spend hours MUBI is like having with amazing taste in movies, They feature hard-to-come-by masterpieces, influential art-house and foreign films, by all your favorite Plus, you can even download the films And there are no ads, ever. One movie you can check out "The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoise." Luis Bunuel offers his surrealist, in this Oscar-winning classic. We can't recommend MUBI highly enough. You can try it out now for free Just click the link