ROISIN: Oh my goodness. We know we've been losing our There's no other that can really The beaver is one of the animals that we really did hunt I would love to see of what our world could but people can get quite upset 'cause they see a beaver It really is about taking and about just saying, look, if we want to tackle climate we have to look at as a conservation tool. So that's raised the are we prepared to NARRATOR: When we picture we think of vibrant green hills, manicured hedgerows, bubbling brooks and pastoral farmhouses. But where is the wilderness? RICH: It often gets called the and it's very much a kind of romanticized way. But underlying that that's been put in pretty well the whole of the When we took the wilder places, the ecosystems did support were also lost. NARRATOR: Turn back the and we'd see a very Old growth forests with ...and vast wetlands with the ability to transform beavers. RICH: The beaver's been around for millions and We have hunted this and we've seen NARRATOR: Beavers are what's an organism that helps hold Without its keystone, the In Great Britain centuries and urbanization and wiped out the beaver. Some believe that will boost biodiversity and That idea is being tested in the county of Devon. RICH: Just watch your step [water trickling] NARRATOR: After 400 there was a growing for how these wood might help rewild RICH: This is the stump and you can see all these beautiful scalloped marks. It looks like it's but actually this is Many of the trees that don't actually die. If you came back you would see dozens of Poplar and willow, Silver birch, they all when they're gnawed. They bring these big trees down so that they can and the nutritious but they also want to and use those for building. [water trickling] NARRATOR: Beavers Because they feel they've become master creating the ideal water A multi-chamber home and a flood resistant design. RICH: So we're gonna walk across to the main beaver which is a pretty They've built this over four years. We have entrance chambers where the beavers could swim and there'll be a chamber of water where the young and then higher up they'll where they can sleep and And when the flood waters in the beavers have got a that they can escape Sometimes when you to a beaver lodge you can hear the beavers I go to these sites and it feels like going back in time and they're chaotic NARRATOR: That's Beavers were long, [birds chirping] and then suddenly, NEWSCASTER: Now, they're the of beavers in the in hundreds of years. TOM: This is either for English conservation or the start of a grave threat to our fragile river ecosystem. JAKE: Around 2008, some wildlife enthusiasts began to see beavers actually swimming in NARRATOR: The river Otter. This 27-mile waterway but it's best known as settled by this new Whether they escaped or were released deliberately Jake Chant has been since they arrived. JAKE: I think beavers are a very If you were to see you'd see a great dense waterproof fur that You'd notice this odd tail Great big webbed rear and it's really not we've got in England. Originally the government to trap and remove But Devon Wildlife Trust, with managed to persuade a five year trial effectively to assess the impacts on lowland England. We use camera traps a lot to monitor what the NARRATOR: With the the trial aimed to reveal and measure their JAKE: So that's great. We've got a beaver coming up and it's just come You know, they come out about and they're active So this is like a little NARRATOR: The term &quot;busy as As these mammals work felling trees, and During the five the cameras reveal beavers' JAKE: We're monitoring So how many kits do We got a lot of activity Interactions between species. It was really interesting to see how otters were using the There's some fantastic camera using the canals that So you can see, it's building in the sheer quantity which is really exciting. NARRATOR: Species the camera trap evidence, restoring beavers as a keystone created the right for other native In Devon, the trial that beavers were beneficial But some people were benefiting humans as well. 400 miles north in Scotland, Zoologist Roisin Campbell Palmer had already begun ROISIN: I guess I've been up close and personal so I get a view that don't see of beavers. Lovely fur. They're really quite cute. You know, it's not a but you know, beavers are and I think that's I first began working with I worked at the time for the and we did one of about bringing beavers back. Part of that was and how they fit into but it was also are people willing to NARRATOR: Roisin and her team monitored They documented all the but also those that caused Altered river courses, They found such risks and that most people Conservationists in the Scottish team's methods and asked Roisin to help But would an approach that have similar success in a more RICH: We hatched upon a plan to see what would happen and started building dams. And little did we know we would observe. ALAN: Wonder if I and then I'll go to that end. RICH: Can you give us ROISIN: Tell me when RICH: Yeah, that's great. Go for it. ALAN: All good? RICH: Oh, that is great. If you can hold here, we can [water sloshing] Before the beavers built this on this whole floodplain, but it's completely NARRATOR: Rich has called to help study how beavers physically alter RICH: 320 there. NARRATOR: They start by the pond can hold. RICH: Oh yeah, that's probably NARRATOR: And how much to reduce flooding downstream. RICH: ...water that's about Excellent. If we get these depths we can work out what that's being stored and how much capacity there is to reduce that NARRATOR: Over 5 live and work in areas costing around one and in damage a year. A changing climate only by generating more severe The village of East of the river Otter, had suffered but now there's a new ALAN: So if we set up here. ALAN: So I've been doing for the last four years or so. It's allowed us to look at and the water storage and ROISIN: Nice. ALAN: It's starting [drone motor whirrs] NARRATOR: Satellite reveal an incredible The beavers have turned ROISIN: The pond's massive. ALAN: So it was to just around where ROISIN: Mm-hmm ALAN: But now it's kind What do you reckon, ROISIN: Wow. NARRATOR: This new water flows downstream ALAN: There we go. We NARRATOR: Without storms overfill the Lucky for this village, the through braided that hold more water than a Since the beavers built their East Budleigh hasn't ALAN: Storm flows have been NARRATOR: And during the while adjacent land has the beaver built wetlands RICH: It stays even in the driest times of we've still got a NARRATOR: But these Beavers can also that make some ADRIAN: Beavers are although I'd rather their [laughs] And we've had dams, I'm way above my head. And the only way is with a digger and I have [water trickles] NARRATOR: Beaver's from the riverbank, threatening farmland and homes. MARTIN: They're recognized as and in some areas that's There's no doubt about that. However, where they are causing we need to be able NARRATOR: When some opponents in the UK have But when tensions there are folks committed ED: We manage two and a half in heathland and on top NARRATOR: Ed at one of the largest He's heading out to a beaver at one of many farms He and Matt Holden of respond to calls MATT: So how long have you ED: This dam's been off and on about two years. It's really nice habitat, it's started to impact So this one is gonna have MATT: Yeah. Yeah. ED: Beavers can work So within a few nights MATT: It's amazing how they They're properly creative. ED: They're really good MATT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. NARRATOR: Simply lowers water level and ED: Beavers need management. We want landowners and tenants but when they see crops is where people MATT: Yeah. Yeah. ED: So as long as we we should all be happy. MATT: Yeah. I think we are kind of learning, that you always need ED: Yeah. ED: Yeah. NARRATOR: Matt and Ed have can quell frustrations But when a dam is built lowering its level MATT: This one is ROISIN: Oh Wow. MATT: So I hope you're ROISIN: Watch. [both laughing] If you're a house owner, water pouring down the We don't wanna drain this pond but we want to By putting a pipe through a dam we can regulate the So it's not about it's just about compromising to keep a landowner's NARRATOR: A simple drain pipe serves as a highly and it has this [beavers chittering] ROISIN: You know, the first and the beavers come back and you can literally what the F is this? And they're like, no, just no. MATT: We're just setting that and where we feel the beavers ROISIN: And, well, it's MATT: Yeah. ROISIN: The beavers are here and of water back into this channel and it's definitely handling MATT: Yeah, yeah. And obviously NARRATOR: Hands-on management but there's still a lot about beavers that Like myths that they eat fish When in reality they Others worry they CHRIS: Lamby, lamby, lamby. [lambs bleating] Come on lamby, lamb. [lambs bleating] NARRATOR: Farmer Chris Jones on his land and is helping the CHRIS: You stay here. You'll stay here and NARRATOR: Jones in beavers' ability to CHRIS: The land gets completely and we're seeing it all So we have to learn in tune with nature. NARRATOR: Fearing he got a permit to introduce CHRIS: The beavers have been You know, we're in drought and it's still holding We had water we could and that was really NARRATOR: He also [water trickling] CHRIS: When we take a normal like a little bonfire and we put the beavers and it's like throwing And so now five years in, we've had 10 different We regularly record 11 We've had new mammal The fish have doubled in size. NARRATOR: Once he saw the Chris became the community for the Beaver Trust, to educating the public about [insects chirping] One such visitor is CHRIS: Hi Sacha, how are you? SACHA: Hello. Can we have a look? CHRIS: Yeah, let's come head NARRATOR: She's but her love of the has given her a new appreciation Sacha became the first woman by paramotor in order to SACHA: Having flown from the following swans on migrations, realizing that a prime habitat for swans would have been beaver lodges. NARRATOR: Sacha's a reintroducing beavers for migratory birds. SACHA: The cost to man when you need to The cost of bringing in a few is tiny. SACHA: And it is just a much CHRIS: Yeah. Totally. SACHA: ...bringing back all NARRATOR: In Sacha attempted the first of mainland Britain to raise But a mid-air collision Chris and his volunteers at recently completed wheelchair accessible and now Sacha is taking SACHA: It definitely made having been in hospital Having something like well it's all really important In an ideal world, you'd like to slightly wilder landscapes because we'll be fixing so that we try to do with Actually, we need to let a little bit more CHRIS: I would concur. We need to let a little It will just provide the for nature recovery networks. Why shouldn't we be This animal can live amongst us and we can learn NARRATOR: Britain's beavers that the island nation than without them. [water trickling] JAKE: You have a species that actually has the to create habitats for [birds chirping] RICH: Every time I visit dams have been built, and worked into structures. Canals have been cut That really gives me a vision of the future which NARRATOR: Wherever biodiversity is returning and their aquatic engineering brought on by climate change. ROISIN: The cool thing they can change Just having communities that whether that's making sure that we can deal that are coming. So to me it's a wider Are we prepared to let our Are we prepared to see NARRATOR: More and are glad to see beavers In July of 2022, the UK government for beavers and recognized ROISIN: What I'm really hopeful and now it's a national The government are how are we going to That's major. NARRATOR: This far beyond the Beavers are offering to rediscover its