- [Jared] For today's Let's look at how a tank works. We're gonna focus specifically, on the American M1A2 Abrams Tank. We'll look at the caterpillar where the crew sits, and the engine in the (buzz) The M1 Abrams Tank was The tank was named in honor of United States Army General who was a commander in the Vietnam War. The idea with the M1 Abrams Tank, was to keep it low to the ground, so that it was harder to hit. Angled sides on the tank, allowed enemy fire to It's a bit cozy inside, so I hope you're not claustrophobic. During operations, the crew inside with very little sleep. There are many versions of the tank. We have the M1, then came There's also minor variants of the tanks, with many different enhancement packages. But to keep things simple, just these three major versions. They look very similar on the outside, but there's been plenty of improvements, to items such as the armor, electronics and the weapon systems. Each new version is generally but the increased tech makes up for it. For the rest of the video, I'm gonna focus specifically Though some of what I'll say, will be true of the Let's look at some specs. The height is eight feet, the length is 32 feet, For comparison, here's This tank weighs a whopping 68 US tons. That's equal to the Even with all that weight, the tank is capable of speeds It has a fuel capacity of Again, just for comparison, most cars can only hold about 16 gallons. But tanks need all of that fuel because they only get about compared to the average So it's a gas guzzler but Let's look at some other We have the caterpillar tracks, the wheels, they're seven the main body which is called the Hull, and the Turret, which is and holds the weapons and other equipment. The engine is housed in the very back. The tank holds a crew of four, three of them are inside the turret, and one of them is way up front. Now that we're familiar with let's look at more specifics, and we'll start with These are sometimes called tank treads. They are made of steel with There are seven road wheels a raised idler wheel in the very front and the drive sprocket in the back. This one has gear teeth on it, and it's the only one that's It moves the entire track along. (upbeat music) The other wheels spin freely, as the tank treads move past it. The road wheels also have The whole reason we is to allow the tank to go (upbeat music) Most barriers don't pose any (upbeat music) Regular vehicles with four in contact with the ground. They can get stuck much easier. That's why it's a good idea The tank on the other hand, has a much larger surface area Obstacles in the way are (bouncy piano music) The tank can even climb (bouncy piano music) Most of the time it's still a smooth ride for those inside the tank. The tank is steered by altering For example to turn left, the right tracks need to move Unfortunately, the caterpillar tracks, are the most likely part The good news is that the and spare parts so that and the tank can keep moving again. Next up is the engine, which is in the very back of the tank. For repairs, the entire engine can be lifted up out of the tank. This is an AGT 1500 engine, which can run off of but most of the time it In your car, you'll find with the pistons moving up But in the tank, you'll This one works a little that you would find on an airplane. However, this engine is Which is really important, so you don't give away the tanks The engine gets very hot, so these two side cooling units The exhaust comes out the back, so make sure and stay clear There's actually a phone, This way soldiers on the outside can communicate with The sides have armored to protect the wheels and These can be opened up in sections, for better access to the road wheels. On the front, there's headlights here, and four tow hooks down here. Remember there are many different variants of the M1A2 Abrams Tank. So another tank, might have on the outside. And this top part is called the turret. It can rotate all the way around This is the main gun, which is a 120 millimeters This means that the shells or ammunition are 120 millimeters. And so is the bore or the (loud explosions) The shells leave the barrel (bouncy piano music) It can hit a target two miles away. The automatic stabilizers, allow the gun to stay locked on targets, even while going over rough terrain. This way the driver doesn't have to stop every time the tank needs to fire. The tank can even spin in place while the main gun Right next to this, is the Up on top, there's usually at least one On the sides, are smoke grenade launchers. There's one on each side of the tank. These make it harder to There's not much room for so oftentimes the crew put it There are two hatches the commander's hatch Inside of the turret, you'll find three out of It's a bit cozy in here. The gunner sits down The commander sits The loader is off to the When the turret rotates, all three of these crew Underneath here, this is The seal between the turret that it could protect the crew inside I wanna show you about this tank. The commander can see 360 through the viewing ports. The shells for the main gun are stored in a large compartment The loader can then grab a shell and load the main gun. This must be done quickly (loud explosion) If any of the ammunition is ignited, the panels on top are weak to blow off, so that the explosion goes up instead of into the turret The driver sets up at the very front. There's a hatch up here that There's not much room up here either, so the driver has to lay back in the seat. The controls are up here and There's no gas pedal in the tank, just use the two black handlebars, for acceleration and steering. The driver also has periscopes, that allow him to see a Usually the driver enters But if needed, the driver and then through a tiny and into the seat. The United States isn't the only ones, to use the M1 Abrams Tanks. It's been sold to other countries, such as Australia, Egypt, The M1A2 Abrams Tank has been in use for almost 30 years now. At some point it may be replaced but for now it continues for the United States military. My name is Jared, and I create 3D animations Visit my YouTube channel, for lots more animations Go ahead and click on the link here, or click below to watch another video. And thanks again to War Thunder. Download the game for free. Just use my link in the (upbeat music)