Hey everyone, so I frequently get requests as to to an interview with a guy named Chris Langan. you haven't. But I gave it a peek and felt like Before watching the video, I looked around the referred to as "the smartest man in America", IQ of 195, as stated in this article in Here's a good introduction as If we can base insight to god on binary faith anymore. It's extraneous, irrelevant. been before me. Do I think that makes me better That's right, everyone. Strap in for blind faith that constitutes nothing more for people who think Good Will Hunting was as the struggling genius who was overlooked and are easily lulled even deeper into score. Let's check out another snippet or two. 210 seems very, very, very high. was estimated at between 180 and 190. Charles Are you a genius? aren't you? You're forcing me to either say or you're forcing me to say yes. I'll say probably the definitive criteria of genius, I think Apart from demanding that we take his word for hammers jab at Darwin, which will make sense he's a genius because trust me bro. Is there that he's really so smart? In that Esquire Da Vinci and Descartes. I don't know what those but they did a lot of stuff that we can point works of art, but he also designed many churches mechanical devices, hydraulic machines, and that would be invented later, like parachutes, advanced the fields of anatomy, zoology, botany, admittedly were in their infancy, making it easier How about Descartes? He was a philosopher, so therefore I am", but he was also a scientist and the Cartesian coordinate system, which we still and he provided the basis for the calculus that genius too. What has the illustrious Chris Langan He just talks. But Chris, of course, would claim theory of everything! And it's called CTMU: the that sounds neat! What's it all about? The CTMU. It shows that we're all a part of in ways they can't necessarily discern on We all share a basic fundamental identity with trying to help each other and cooperate with Wow, what an amazing revolutionary theory! He of science with this breakthrough insight, together and get along". How did he do it! nothing of even remote significance in supergenius anyway because he says so. Got it. the video that everyone linked me to. It's titled To See", which has already gotten over five could "they" be? Well the person conducting the which is a conservative propaganda mill, in case this interview and didn't release it. Rather why that would be the case. All I could find was from Chris himself where he sounds perplexed, but At any rate, he somehow got the rights to the and that's what we'll be checking out. we can already say a lot just from reading the show to discuss his theory of everything. God, everything" is him musing on random topics like a first time. This demonstrates that the smartest of everything is. He also does not know what a so that it will be very clear to you during the First up, a theory. A theory is a scientific and explains them simply and coherently. Theories and are typically based on quantitative data. If it's not a theory. So contrary to popular belief, not qualify as theories. Then, a theory of It does not mean "whoa think about it bro, this bro". It is a term that stems from theoretical field theory that applies to all the fundamental it is understood that all the forces were unified, split up and became the four fundamental forces and weak nuclear forces, and electromagnetism. successfully unified in the electroweak theory, confirmed in high-energy particle accelerator successful in combining the electroweak with unified theory. This is the current forefront and many of its predictions have been vindicated, last step after that would be to unify such a which is currently described by Einstein's general all four forces, should it be possible, would single theory, and by theory we are talking about four fundamental forces. That's what "theory of means. Chris is therefore even worse off than the bunch of advanced math to pretend he has a theory and probably can't do much math beyond algebra, just spews word salad instead of referencing math. Welcome to my extremely ethereal and trippy in a cloud here in this all-white All-white and Daily Wire, that Chris has one of, if not the highest IQ ever You'd think that if every single interview this singular statistic, that we'd have seen at some point. No? Just me? Ok, continue. distinguished professorship and such and such of his private yacht out of the south of France, Chris came here from a farm in Missouri after That's right, he's not one of those he's uneducated and poor, just like you! That everything he says. So let's meet him! why is he not just buying and selling on a farm in the middle of Missouri? actually interested in money. When I was a kid exactly the richest folks in town. We seldom had immersed myself in books and reading, and decided Now as far as the making money is concerned, certain ingredients, certain advantages that helps to be born with money. And it helps to have a lot of connections, ok? to alienate the people who have all the money, You know, that's what they do. That's what cancel of the economy. And I found myself getting frozen tried to go to college, but ran into a couple of the colleges in question. And that stopped me, education, you are cancelled economically. an obstacle, no doubt. But Chris wants us despite being the smartest person in the world, his entire life, because the mean university cancelled him the whole way? That's a pretty big aid? Every single university in the country just Will Hunting the janitor, once he showed them he and treated him like an equal. Didn't Chris ever he could solve and get something going that a college education cancels you economically is college degrees. Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, high school. Aren't you smarter than all You're obviously, you've got a higher IQ than smart, you're extremely self-educated. So you get It was a total breeze for me. So much of a breeze, in fact, that it you've never done anything since. Awesome. at people who are full of themselves and think class, why don't you explain exactly what an traverse from one end to the other. And they'll I ask that all the time. I ask my waiters. easily answer that question, and they don't fail can't pass a calculus exam, and were probably first place, even though it's intermediate Why are you taking this particular approach to Asperger's victim, right? He looks at me, you know, some people just don't have the mental supposed to do? Hit the guy? I wanted to hit him. class, which should have been easy for you than him. You could have also hit him, but long story which I only gave you the end real students sometimes have real teachers and pass the class. You could have too. much more intelligent than anyone you're going Presumably, or fictionally? about being a bar bouncer. What is it about even without a college degree, you could've done wouldn't have been very lucrative or fulfilling something like that instead of a tough physical Could have, but there are certain problems that I got a job in a grommet factory. It was Stimpson they got military defense contracts, I think then there was Stimpson grommets which produced I had this machine and man, the sound, the noise protection, no nothing was issued to anybody. And I figured well I can't stand this anymore. I but I had a girlfriend and she said no, I want you another kind of job. So I took the civil service of course was a moral dilemma. Exactly! How awful do I wanna be as a person? any sense? Mikey asked why he became a that he wouldn't enjoy. We get a story about a to work for the IRS, which he pretends is the many at much higher rates than America, and process. Anyway, we thought we were going to get that he hated because he preferred to do this or crappy jobs that he hated. Couldn't he have used That's when I started doing the bar bouncing I was working for 40 dollars a night, I'd my back. I couldn't even pay for the shirts, you what I'll do is I'll take the civil service insensitive, but at that point in New York civil service exam and if you are a minority, There's nothing insensitive, this is They've been doing it for a long time, it's happens and I'm applying to be, say a police these non-white guys are looking also to a line of three thousand guys in front of you. Or one of the reasons at least. Those filthy bullshit! That and immigrants. That's what's since you're the smartest person in human them even with their 30 handout points? but almost all those guys are connected. They've who's on the police force that will put in a that. And merit made no difference whatsoever. take any number of these tests and outscore Ah, of course. Top scores don't matter white clique or a minority of some kind. It's to become cops in the big city. Got it. So I'd go to library sales, and found a little and just get whatever I could. And I always had afford to order a book. Even back then books were full price for a book, so I was constantly buying they were used and therefore outmoded. The That's right. If you read a chemistry textbook different. The periodic table changes all the idiotic. Advancements at the frontier of any for undergraduates even one bit. He's just And you know, working as a, punching cows, took two books with me. And one of them was a book the other one was a book by Bertrand Russell. Ok? covered wagon, they call it a sheep wagong that's what it was, kerosene lamp and a Reading Bertrand Russell and Albert Einstein. and it occurred to me, these two What an image! Reading a book on a wagon! putting Einstein and Russell together. What and how do you shove that into physics And then once I decided that I And then I found out about Kurt Godel and the Ok, so no explanation on that combo, and just listing smart people from history You see because reality isn't just geometric, nor is it just linguistic. It's a blend linguistic. Einstein saw it as being geometric. Einstein pretended language didn't exist? What mean you think nothing exists apart Ok so I decided that reality must be them together. Then I realized well I've is actually logico-geometric. And so that's the cognitive theoretic model of the universe. This is your theory of everything. And there's the big reveal. Einstein plus smarter than both of them put together. If you take a good close look at that, you've a kind of language, theoretic language, ok? you've got a model, and then you've you've got a universe, and then the model is the same thing. All those terms, all those properties can have only one structure once you realize Yeah, it's going to be this brand of word salad theories are not languages. They are models. models separately as though theories aren't models those words mean. Then saying that all of those proves you don't know what those words mean, since wouldn't exist. What properties are distributed properties of what language, and how are they language? None of this means anything. siloed aspect of thought. Philosophy over Physics over here. But you're presenting Not really presenting so much as vaguely has math in it. Wanna show us some math, big guy? the first question we have to Here's the second reason Chris is here on religious viewership. Again, we aren't talking morons know what that term means. Which is why the existence of god in what is supposed to be stupid thing to do. But of course Chris fires definitely is a god. And if anyone would know, Identity has a, reality has an identity. exists. Ok? Matter of fact when you say the You are identifying something, this. this is so beautiful. It just reminds me of burning bush says who shall I tell all and god says: tell them I am that I am. nothing, he just said reality is a word, Can we get a little more rigorous, fellas? It just comes up with the mathematical structure Which mathematical structure, Chris? You but you haven't shown anyone an ounce of math. even have to be yours. Show us one of Einstein's So you've come up with that identity and then you the preliminary framework then you start deducing out that those properties match those of god as What preliminary framework? Describe it. Which And sorry, god as described in the world's major and they're very not the same. Are you talking talking about Vishnu. What about Allah? No, the god that white people like. If you you should stop pandering to religious people. existence of god, or are its properties such that god exists. The properties of the central those properties are attributed to god. Including omnipotence, and omnipresence. But then you've Well that's it, case closed! God exists and consciousness exist, therefore god exists. seem like a genius compared to this clown. Yes. You can establish a personal relationship an image is. It's basically the product of being. Right? That's a very personal thing that how anybody can say that it's any different. baseless assertion you're making. You've exists. You just said random words. is basically the idea that reality we see on some sort of automaton or a computer. Right, exactly. Oh, eat a piece of licorice. one needs a little sustenance. how Chris can't pronounce automaton correctly, but out of Chris for way too long. This guy either has Because this part of the universe that we Ok? There are certain things that it entailments, that's how you get to god. you've alluded to mathematical structures, entailments, are you gonna get around to actually What do you mean? I hate to put it in... you realize a display contains states. Ok, you static. That's why they're called states. Ok, to be processed. Something has to process. But those are two different things in the ordinary properly describe reality and causation at all that's what it takes god to do. God provides We are getting a master class in word salad, Mike said yeah, no doy. Then Chris said the word on without clarifying what he meant by state. and kinetic energies of all the atoms in the as a whole? What are you talking about? And there has to be processing? Of what? Processing something. Something has to perform operations on Change its state? From what to what? Mike is eager prods Chris along, but Chris isn't actually saying didn't clarify what he was referring to, and to change state, like for something to move? can perfectly describe motion with the laws the foresight to begin prodding at this verbiage immediately. It's no better than the underpants the underpants they collect even though the Just replace "collect underpants" replace "profit" with "god exists". parse all of the quibbles that there might so much of what you're saying resonates as I'm a member of the body of christ. The idea that So really you just nodded along with all this exists", felt validated in your blind faith, because he told you what you wanted to hear. is called an identity operator. God is the they have to be, they're doing things, they're No, we can't. An operator is a function. physical entity, like whatever quantum these are quanta. Functions are not quanta. has, basically it takes input from the outside processes it, and then returns it That's adorable speculation, got any evidence for because the evidence for the existence of photons since light and matter exist and we do lots of them. What are you working with here? throughput, you could call that the subjective and then it's returned to the external universe. What I'm saying is that's consciousness. And part of the universe because those are the quanta. That's great, so you can find them in so they should be in there, right? But wait, are everywhere you say? Well then it should What are these things? What are their properties? of any quantum? Like their mass, charge, those properties empirically. Did you wanna Can you put that into more basic What was it you need to understand Why are these two concepts you're These... what is the problem with these... Chris shows signs of agitation when Mike asks because that would entail Chris remembering just go into a flow state and rattle off random that's why he's always contradicting himself, good at it, but it's hard to duplicate, and then launches into another tirade that's more So the real manifold of classical physics is a things, that's why, that doesn't work with quantum know, quantum fluctuations and fields, as a matter manifold, that doesn't work for anything at all. Quantum fluctuations or quantum fields, you wouldn't list them in a sentence that way word manifold over and over again doesn't help. going to describe a totally deterministic this causing this causing this, you don't actually more complicated than just cause. free will in those terms is ???. It means This is a key tactic for frauds like this, their gibberish to be meaningful. Any time the said, it doesn't matter what they say or how they complicated than just cause! Of course, Michael. super complicated theory from the smartest gets them to continue the interview in the most anything or requesting too much clarification, so by the other person and the viewers. so what does metacausation... future. Metacausation works from past to future Notice how Chris interrupts because he doesn't is a keyword from which he can launch into word on some gibberish about causation from future I get past to future. This seems pretty I put it over here, and now I remember two caused it to go over there. So how do you cause It can't go anywhere unless there's some place Finish up that licorice, Chris. Take some time to to go from the future to the past, a thing since that's impossible, so he says something unless it has a place to go. Yes, Chris. Thank from one place to another while moving forward in time. Are you sure you have nothing here? from there to there, you think that there's a glass. That's false. Ok? The point to which you future. When you pick up that glass it's Yes, ok. That makes sense. And Well that was an easy getaway, wasn't it Chris? pretending that the point where he would move at which it would get there will be later. Mike subject for you. And we can see the manipulation understands what he's saying, and even though because he's chasing that high of being told he he's not following something Chris is saying I'm not gonna ask you if I'm gonna go to heaven You will persist after you die. Ok? Where you I'm not gonna ask you about A, but what ever so cognizant of the audience he's better be a good boy if you wanna go to heaven. he probably wouldn't be fond of him devoting If you displease god, that's exactly what's going he's going to say: I can't see him anymore. He's be able to reunite, salvation will be impossible to pull you back into himself. God doesn't wanna He knows your physical body is there, but he's you deny his existence, you offend him, I will never stop being amused by how petty and this. "Like, whatever, I made you, gave you no even love me and worship me? Do you know how much perfect but I can still have my feelings hurt you paltry kind of god is an intellectual toddler. Yes. Yes. Is there a fear that if you take some of these That's a problem, isn't it. And that's a problem For context they're talking about psychedelics. these guys have done any psychedelics, at least him proclaim that demons are his excuse for I'd ask for evidence of demons existing, but this thus far, so maybe I'll keep it to myself. very tight boundary. He's a perfect, resembling imperfection. He can't take it into That's funny, you called god omnipotent he can't do. Do we need to go over Are you saying that he sort of, the devil sort of I'm saying that the devil lacks coherence. superposition with itself. It allows a little bit paradoxical, it allows something to possible states are in superposition. They exist The word salad shooter malfunctions every once his first mishap. Not bad. It's tough to keep the cigar in his hand so he could pretend to be At any rate, what he said was meaningless. He inwards in a way that would indicate the is diffuse, a system existing in many states system will exhibit a particular state, like what what would be fewer states or a singular state. concept of superposition, take a puff, say it's he actually explained anything about the devil. or less invented by the central bank, you know who before that Moses Hess, and other people to come has been for the last 200 years. What has changed? Wire. Marxism bad because central banks trying to take over the world! Honest decent just wanna give you affordable electronics! Were you a Trump supporter? You don't need to say... Trump can't read. Look at the way he hesitates. can't read. I actually stood up and said no. I've equal to that of the average Harvard professor. and Russia will reepeetoo ahhhh. Yeah he's a regular Noam Basically he is competent, he's a good country and I wanted people to understand that. is not very bright, this would probably be it. minds of a lot of American citizens. We wanna have don't want our borders to be open. We don't want year and displacing us from our own territory. about immigrants, just like every other And the first time around, ya know, do anything about it. The second time around... questions about the 2020 presidential election? was, shall we say, not quite up I take it back, this would be the sentence to rocks. Do tell us about how the election was in ballots were included, Chris. Enlighten about COVID. Awesome. generally? I take it you're anti COVID... and I went out and bought Gina and those M100 masks. And I advised people what to do and then I noticed that it wasn't really killing, wearing masks, nobody up there, I mean, and be something a little bit off about this. it. And then I noticed that it was being used as Yeah, nobody in Missouri died of COVID. who died of COVID. But please tell us And there have been white papers written in the everybody behind the globalist agenda. Operation Warp Speed accelerated the there was a terrible global pandemic, and maniac Donald Trump. Are you saying your idiot Does Trump bear some responsibility for... my question is, does he really know what's going are misleading himself about what's going? I would I thought Trump was smarter than all the is he a supergenius like you, or is he a around him? Pick a lane. Well I will say this, the intelligence in aliens. Yes. Oh absolutely. I mean they're constantly at the global elite, and you wonder well I don't that's a conspiracy theory. Then who is pulling entity, aliens, demons, whatever. Could there that the global banksters know about but they're being totally concealed and hidden And it's one that the intelligence communities nor there because the intelligence communities Yeah, the globalist bankers are being controlled crazy at all, Chris. If there's anything that system would want to do when it comes here, screw hardworking Americans out of their 401(k)s. also love subtly working through the CIA to foreign leaders to serve a Western agenda come down here and enslave us all with People are gonna be laughing when Well let 'em laugh, but they won't be able to what I'm saying. It just, they don't know enough. the burden of proof? It's not "the CIA is run by You can't just make up whatever bullshit you can prove otherwise. If you really believe that, and I'm right until you show us some official It's funny that you mention angels and demons, er don't particularly believe in aliens. I mean don't know about. But I certainly believe that exist. I'm less confident that aliens exist. Baseless supernatural superstitions? Let's Has written ghost stories and things, just ask a random person, have you ever people will say yes. And throughout history That's correct. many people are saying they've seen a ghost for That's correct. That's absolutely correct. it must be true! That's how logic works. Actually, the existence of ghosts in any empirical manner of anecdotal evidence you want to reference here. observant person you'll never see anything and you just screen all that stuff out, you'll open-minded person and you're observant, Right, if you want to believe those things believing that you saw them. Finally, the guy is by making up a story about seeing a UFO. I say suddenly it was just in the sky, I became there's this huge spheroidal elliptical, not partially on its side, and I thought well that I've heard of. So I looked at it and I wonder I actually took sticks and I tried to use why isn't it changing, why isn't it moving, why You tried to use parallax to do what? Because something is. So how would that help you to looking? And how did you use sticks to do means? Do you think that if you use some smart There are people in the CIA who actually claim who they are. But they're there. And we're not talking about low-ranking individuals. These are people not just you're saying these are people you've talked to? them in particular that I was actually, somebody to this person. And I said well, ok so he's in the CIA. Is he gonna tell me the truth about anything? abductions, because he and his wife were actually about it. And I said well is he gonna tell me the said then I don't wanna talk to him. I don't wanna of understanding that I'm not gonna get lied to know whether he's lying or telling the truth. telling me the truth, I don't have time for it. said I will tell you the truth I suppose so. That's what they do in the CIA. That's correct and you lie your ass off. At I'm curious as to whether he had this lie ready to the latter, because he made up this bullshit about you who they are, implying that he knows them. Now it's not someone he knows, but someone he because he wanted the truth. Mikey says he could says duh, CIA agents are always lying literally asked if he was going to tell the truth, since he see how nothing he says is even remotely logically just talking out of his ass at all times. and so and so is really just answering to the that in my bible. I know that that's true. Well yes, and by the way there are accounts that involve UFOs, things in the sky that show the tide. This goes all the way back to the all kinds of people who reported these things. including Christian scriptures as well. everything because Mikey's book of stories little Ancient Aliens twist. Are we gonna get It strikes me tat there's really something philosopher, he said that the job of the that the common man knows intuitively. In other words, conservative so-called of idiots and artificially intellectualize those people. The Daily Wire, everyone! you're not getting in. They won't even will actually start arguing, even in his own field lose. And they will. Any academic, any time. floor with you, Chris. I could too. But do keep Higher education cartel as there can be. the entire educational system as being one great work in it, those faculty members, they're chosen, And they peddle Marxism, but... I was getting my chemistry degree, every day it electrophiles. The proletariat acids and those just talk about division of labor, we never even clearly know exactly what happens in college. could define Marxism or communism or socialism I don't like drag queen story hour but we need to If we don't tolerate drag queen story hour, yes. Look it's in the preamble to the constitution. his grave at the very thought of that. Not in my last read through. were basically taught to be tolerant of people, of bit deviant, a little bit of deviation is good. looking at things. So I developed tolerance. But they're shoving it down children's throats, and biological imperative of survival. To that men and women exist, and they mate and create Reason number four that Chris is here at the Daily thing, and anything that deviates from that is is bad! The pedos and the groomers are taking this jerkoff was just another bigot. Tolerance bloated bloviations, then you can deal with But when they go out and they have gay day they're going into children's restrooms and so Children's restrooms? What is a children's an elementary school campus you alarmist prick. worth reading? People always say what's what should I listen to, are there There are no academic philosophers that are It's not because all of them are stupid or the party, they're academics. They cannot violate get away with it. If you're in that system Yep, everyone who is affiliated with any and atheist. You're not allowed to work at a Not even religious universities. It's a paradox, I dumb and lazy to read what philosophers have to Are there non-academic writers, thinkers, I'm sure they're out there. Oh wow, so even all the people who aren't at reading either? So all the smart people are people are stupid? That's quite a pickle. Are you I wanna know who, beyond his own writing, me to read. Who would you recommend? definitely read Plato and Aristotle and Socrates. Socrates. The problem is that he never wrote nobody alive today is worth reading, his from history that we should all read includes know Chris is completely full of shit. He a thing that exists, which means he never read smart people from history that he thinks Have you ever heard of Plato, Those, that takes us up through some Anselm, Aquinas, Augustine. And beyond Yeah, once we get past Aquinas and philosophy Christian god, it got "dicey", says logic and critical thinking skills, now can we? really, they're adamant. Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett. Daniel Dennett, Sam Harris, you know, Chris You're a little outdated with your references, together in 2007 and Hitchens died in 2011. New around much anymore, except for fearmongering rationality and who would like to end But you didn't just say he doesn't Hates god. Dawkins obviously hates that's what it comes down to. god any more than he hates the Loch Ness of comprehending the idea that other people Do you think that our discussion active and participatory rather than merely... be rational as well as faith-based. Faith is specifically a suspension of reason. It reason to believe. If you had rationality behind You sure are dumb for a genius, Chris. People always ask you this. Why aren't you I've seen people... don't go along with the... look, they have to give have connections. In order to make money you have Come on you boners! What about all that you couldn't figure out how to rub two nickels Seriously? If you can't become a how do billionaires exist? And aren't any of know you're obsessed with "meaning" and not construction business? Or a bouncer training you could do to make a measly six figures you really that devoid of creativity, Chris? A lot of these rich people are into something going to have to leave so there's no problem Do you think there's any relation and the transgender movement? The idea I do. The idea I think is that you can throw off of reality including the constraint of gender. related, am I right? It's a called a other side of". Transhumanism, to the other when one's gender identity is on the other side pretty sure Chris said he taught himself Latin What should I do in my own life Search for god. Ask god to establish a you're attached to god by your soul. There's can receive the will of god into yourself. he's not taking calls. Funny how the smartest man something so trite as to be indistinguishable from America, huh? You'd think he'd having something And that concludes the interview. As we can all is a narcissist of middling intellect who a genius by adopting a sophomoric contrarian blended with sheeplike religious subservience. than another installment in a series of internet archetype which has become a proven business philosophical rhetoric is the same as that of scientific rhetoric is the same as that of Eric another self-aggrandizing asshat who uses language people sound like, and not all that effectively employs is that he wears his salt-of-the-earth happens to be smarter than all those fancy city Now to be clear, I'm not mocking the working live on a farm. Some people ride skateboards, laboratory, some people work construction. It intelligent people that are either constrained injustice, or because they genuinely prefer that of manipulation involved with Chris obsessively closer to the truth than when golden billionaire regardless. It's a facade. The intention is to and garner the trust of a certain type of viewer rhetoric. As I've said before, it's just another male who should lead the tribe, such that others and let him do the thinking for all of them. demonstrated time and time again that it will just the trend we are seeing right now. There are outlets who platform and cater to those figures, been proven to work so well, every few months podcast designed for dumb people to think they're answers, millions of people fall for it, and they I probably would do it too. What could be easier? most people don't understand, and if anyone just say some vague anti-establishment can't see outside the box, and aren't ready to knowledge. It's a foolproof way to con a bunch of up his rubbish all over the comments section. get through to these people? To any of them I he's intelligent because you don't understand things you don't understand. Any scientist. Not not saying that to be condescending, anyone who most other people won't understand. That's the scientific publication in the entire world at haven't at least studied that subject in college it, nor should you be surprised about it. complicated! They must be the smartest person them on Joe Rogan and Lex Fridman and the thousand this one! This guy is even smarter than the other podcast should they go on? This is what irks me. put them in front of Joe Rogan, have them the same effect. But it won't. Do you know why? themselves as a genius that everyone has to listen more relevance or profundity than it deserves. arrogant scientists. I'm talking about the average so people would not latch on to them irrationally, those podcasts, because those podcasts are in These people have absolutely nothing to offer If I had some complex stuff in memory and a some physical violence, usually my memory was it would be gone irretrievable. One time I was evolved into a whole new way of looking at neural I set the page down and I mopped up the fight. I tried and tried and tried to find that piece of couldn't remember what the hell I'd written on it. neural networks, but gosh gee whiz he couldn't Weinstein and his SHIAB operator that he he can't remember what it was now. It's always to point to in order to demonstrate their anything. They don't build anything. They don't Everybody says Eric Weinstein is a is there anything they've done? No, truly. they've built? Is there one appliance they have something even like the rotato which peels and has done except whack off Elon Musk and talk? encapsulates what I'm saying here, and he happens could be talking about any of these jerks, since conversation was supposed to be about CTMU, the it for like ten minutes, and Chris didn't present figures are geniuses in their own mind and their can't see right through them. But then again, I'm Colleges and universities purport to be harnessing breeding house for parrots. People are allowed to not really allowed to do anything too radical. bullshit. Not allowed to do anything radical? to college to get educated and then goes into developing some incredible new technology, who Gestapo forcing people to use their knowledge Who is preventing people from taking their actual lucrative applications that will matter enterprise be trying to squash that? an actual ethical structure that we can look right way of thinking. Within that framework can be taught without fear in elementary and in our colleges and universities. We have leadership. I don't see anybody on the top of the been co-opted by the system. They have too much to It's going to take somebody else. Somebody to the top from the bottom, shall we say. failing! It's a sinking ship! And yet somehow which isn't even logically consistent. This This is James Tour and origin of life research. Countless examples, always the same intent, a something that is invalid at face value. It's to put it on even footing with their complete from the bottom. No one is born an accomplished become that person. And there are no shortcuts, Could it be you? Who knows. It could be you. internet guru! I will follow you What will be our first order of business? I would institute something like the Manhattan control. Simply implant that in all children at right off the bat. It would also allow us to probably say anti-disgenics. Either we have to do only the fit breed. We like to think that it is have as many kids with whomever we want being saddled with the results of what we do. eugenics. Doesn't seem so harmless anymore, now a moment, let's examine how this specific brand who are disgruntled due to economic disparity will depression, Trump came to power in the wake of the an attempt to take civil unrest due to economic Most people know they're getting screwed but so they listen to the loud man who pretends to these answers are always a distraction from the institutions they serve, but rather immigrants, whatever boogeyman they can conjure to distract truly to blame. They will manufacture some kind just deregulation implemented by most of the from Reagan to Clinton and all the rest. experiencing in this post-truth era is a problem idea who to trust, and they are making the wrong keep it short this time, since it always comes help people feel motivated and inspired to gather falling for these kinds of internet gurus, and if highlighting actual educated and knowledgeable Because when the shit really hits the fan, and it's not gonna be some jerk like Chris Langan So that's it for Chris Langan, another in a absolutely don't need and who hopefully But the factory is cranking these guys out so I'll see you next time for whichever