Hi everyone, Kevin here. Today, in going to look at 10 amazing ways you can start you can compare files in OneDrive, fill in presentations in PowerPoint, and so much more. one. Copilot understands the context of the page and in the top right-hand corner, I'll click recognizes that I currently have a video playing. video highlights. Let's try clicking on this. generated a video summary, and it also highlights video. So here, for example, if I want to I can even click on this timestamp and it'll jump the cool things too, is I can also ask questions what the Copilot plugin is called that generates again, it understands the video and the plugin is a really neat plugin to test. This functionality YouTube, but you can also use it on text-based You can install Copilot directly on your iPhone or Play Store and search for Microsoft Copilot and all of Copilot's features while you're on the here, I'll take a picture of a flower at my house ask Copilot, what type of flower is this? And a yellow to peach color. That's just one example us to tip number three. You can make a branded a Word document open that talks about opening up of the details, including the market analysis. as a document, and I think a presentation would and here I have a presentation open in PowerPoint I want to turn that Word document into a up on top, let's click on the Home tab and over icon. This opens up Copilot. And down below, I or down below I could type in my own. But right says Create a Presentation From, and then I can so let's click on this, and here it inserts this Create a Presentation From, and then it uses a you could reference people, files, or even And here I see all my different Word documents there's that Word document opening a new cookie inserts the file into the prompt that I want to below, let's send this through. Before it does says, Creating a New Presentation Will Replace a copy first. Well, over here, this is just a this template to make its presentation. So, I'm Please. And look at that. It pulled together 18 in PowerPoint. This is phenomenal. So right here, look at this. It created all of these different the competitive landscape. And again, it pulls all if we go down to the very bottom, it also adds I have all of the original content down at the from my Word document. This makes it so easy and thing I love is it even finds matching imagery to brings us to tip number four. You can reference Copilot. Here I am in Copilot, and you can launch taskbar. We looked at this one briefly in the you could enter a forward slash. And this allows people, meetings, or even emails when you're the different items. Now here, I can click into see all my different OneDrive files, any meetings have a question about a recent file. Here's that click on this one. And now I can ask Copilot a is the target audience. I don't feel like opening see what comes back. And look at that, it pulls That was easy. I also noticed that I have a let's once again, enter that forward slash. And we have one of my favorite types of meetings, a and let's find out who's attending this meeting. right up above, it pulls out all of the attendees. And right up on top, it looks like I'm the main meeting. This brings us to tip number five. You Right here, I have an email from Henrietta, my I needed to stand out a little bit more anytime my let's click on the Copilot icon. And right here, but I already have a prompt in mind. So down below an inbox rule to highlight in red and pin to the So right over here, let's see if Copilot can help up the rules prompt. And here, I can see that it emails from Henrietta, here it adds a condition. address. And then I see two actions. It'll pin the red. That's pretty close. I wanted to highlight is here, I can validate and confirm that the rule below, I'll click on Save. Now that I've saved click on Run the rule. Now let's close out of this Henrietta pinned to the top with the red category. trouble creating rules, and this makes it so You can understand your files faster with Copilot here I have this Word document about opening a file, right over here, I see the Copilot logo. actions. I can have it summarize the file. I can down below, I can even ask a question about this that, that opens up the Copilot pane over on the Copilot. Where should we open a location in India? Copilot comes back with a few different or Hyderabad. Let me know which one you think is it looks like it gave it some good consideration the left-hand side, it reminded me of a task that and my manager wanted me to summarize all of these let's click into the My Files view. And here I OneDrive. Over here, I see all those different five of these files. And up on top, we have the and again, we can summarize. But there's now You can do this with up to five files at a time. And look at that, it extracts all of the presents it in a table. So here I see all the and here I could even see the grand total for job so much easier. Now, you could also use or retail logs, or in my case, invoices. This your writing with coaching by Copilot. Now, if write text for you, you can also have it evaluate where my manager has asked me to announce to the everyone has to come to the office. I still don't herself, but I guess you need a fall guy. Now here best tone or if it's the most convincing. So right on this and here you could draft with Copilot. or you could use coaching by Copilot where it'll now it's analyzing my message. And look at that. it says that I should be more professional. The policy change. Well, that's good. However, the which can demotivate employees. Now I don't want suggestions. So, it recommends changing up some of through and make some modifications. It also tells it has specific suggestions. Down below, it also can use the coach to improve your writing. This makes data analysis so much easier. My manager the cities where we have stores along with the no country here. And I don't want to have to look help me with this. To be able to use Copilot in of this data range is in a table. So how do we data range. And up on top, let's go to Insert. you can also press Ctrl T on your keyboard, and here, my table has headers, so I'll make sure to I also need to make sure that this sheet is saved you have to make sure you save it in OneDrive. Copilot. So right up on top, let's click on the side, let's click on Copilot. Down below, here I my own. So, let's go down to this text field and for these cities. And let's see if it could do that. Here it walks me through how it went about looks good to me. So, let's insert this column for these different cities. It looks like I'll but it's a really good start. Now, I'd also countries. So, let's see if Copilot can help. Over add another column with accounts of countries. look at that. Let's insert that column. And when used to count the number of countries. That makes brings us to tip number nine. You can use Copilot meetings. Now, right up on top, there's the up the Copilot pane. Now, at the very bottom, examples of the types of prompts that you can ask. so let's see if I could get a recap of what's been that. There I get a quick overview of everything I've missed anything important. I think that me also ask if there are any action items for me. And let's see what comes back. And look at that. for me, at least not yet. Now, this is a great You could get up to speed on any content that you inspiration for prompts. Now, as we've been going how do you know what you can even ask in the top right-hand corner, I'll click on of sample prompts that you can ask. But you'll see this icon where you can view even and then click on it. And it'll show you with Copilot. I'll go back. You could also use we see a few sample prompts. I'll go back again. Now, all the different Microsoft 365 apps will going through each app to see what types of things inspiration, down at the bottom, you can click on Lab. And here you'll see a very comprehensive list And down at the bottom, if you want even more, you the Copilot Lab. And over here, you could filter also filter by task or even job type. And here to give you inspiration. All right, well, Also, let me know if you have any other tips in to really master Copilot, be sure to visit the You can click on the card right up above. These different roles and also functions like HR, and marketing. There, you can find webinars make the most of Copilot in your everyday work. go on all the time. So, you'll likely find one watch more videos like this one, please consider