Hi Everyone! Have you ever wondered about how big a photon the pupil in your eye, right? In fact, it should Yet, it should also be big enough to completely thousand microns apart. So, I guess, answering In the past, I always used to think like a little electromagnetic wave But in the last few years, my views have changed. So, if you Google for information about definitive answer. It seems everybody has their size should be defined. Some say that, because have size because it does not occupy space like as the "distance" or "volume" over which or even with itself. And if that's your Now, in school I was taught that a photon is the light of a particular wavelength. So, photons wavelength is generally in the order of half a For humans, size is important, I guess. If you right size for your family and your garage. And spot smaller than a micron, it is tempting to than the spot, right; because light is made of For one: is that spot size really 1 One of the most fascinating properties If you look carefully, light constantly reminds a disturbance in the path of the light, we can A very famous example where we can observe experiment, where the "disturbance" in the path So here the light can only to go along two well these areas of higher and lower intensities the light waves are either in phase or out of create interference by for example recombining Or we can even manipulate the interference very Interference is caused by the fact that field. And this is the way that you generally see as a wave travelling along a narrow line. you should ask yourself a few questions. The and electric fields indicate the field But it also suggests that the field But this is obviously not correct. If only, loops and extend into space quite a bit, actually And since the electric- and magnetic fields same is true for the electric field. So even an energy, which we refer might refer to as a travelling along a very narrow line. Instead, it On the other hand, if we try to detect light, we localized as well as quantized in energy. by removing discrete amounts of energy from the very locally. For example, it can happen when of a CCD sensor. Or should I say in one So, this is where things get a bit weird: on the photon is distributed in space. But when we try And we might ask ourselves: what do mean exactly or part of the field itself, or do we refer to and from the field? And now that we how long is the electromagnetic wave or approximately 2.5 like is shown here, As I said earlier, my views on what photons are, In fact, there was this one experiment I did showed this experiment earlier, as a side note at a modified version of the double slit experiment. the path leading to the slits into two spatially only 1 particular slit and both paths have a path about 40 mm longer than the shortest path. this distance is equivalent to more than Now, when I brought down the beam power know what to expect. But it turned out, the even with this additional path difference present. single photon simultaneously take paths that are but it also allows these paths to have If you were used to visualize a photon as like I used to do, this experiment burns a the interference properties of single photons And at that point I realized that my ideas And there were several people, that told me the course, without offering any particular insights of the experiment is correct, but I now also is flat-out wrong. So, we are going to do difference in path length a bit further and see matter how long we make that second path, or will Let me just walk you through the schematic: monochromatic light. The intensity of photon intensity levels with a series I will discuss how that was done. Next, there is for the light. The short path leads directly to The other path takes the beam on a little the light back to recombine with the light the long path is about 5 times as long as paths is recombined, it is detected here in a Let me show you around the actual setup. Here is in December 1979. At its last calibration, it was Now even though this laser has matured as it has lost quite a lot of its mojo. 0.3mW. But all the better actually, because we Next in the setup there is a mirror under direction, followed by a set of neutral density single photon level. The light then passes through path continues in a straight line to the detector, by the way is a pretty standard IP camera, with The longer path in the setup is routed via where it is recombined with the first beam. which is used to compact the interference sensitive. The additional mirror for the of more than a meter long on the base plate. small angle, the interference pattern displays because a pattern like this allows for even at extremely low intensities. The And because the light levels in the room are I also shielded the setup from ambient light. to give the setup a nice high-tech look and feel. how can you be sure that the beam power of Well, imagine that we have a continuous light gray filters that each transmit a certain fraction an output power in the beam that is equivalent So how do we do the calculation? Well, we assume of energy. We start out by calculating in the setup, given the speed of For 1300mm, this value is 4.3 nanoseconds. This beam at any time, the photon flux can be as And using the photon energy of the laser With the current power output we can calculate that we need to attenuate to get to this 74 pW. This means we need a filter Now, in practice I was able to detect interference And if we use these last filter settings, 250 times lower than that of a beam Now that we know that we can indeed go I can finally show you the Do we still observe interference with Let's not keep you in the dark any longer. This if either one of the paths is closed off and Now, there is no doubt about it: even in this at single photon intensity level, the photons differ in length by a factor of 5 and in absolute Now I can assure you, the more you think about whacky results ask for whacky explanations. So, a pretty whacky explanation. In an attempt to phenomenon of interference is somehow be detached So basically, my suggestion was that, because it does not experience time and distance, so all the perspective of the photon. But in retrospect questions than it answers. Also, there is a much And this explanation was suggested to me by David He very kindly explained where the experiment hefty and not YouTube video material, so The essence is that the electromagnetic field of is a more or less a continuous wave or And you're probably are thinking: where is the individual photons? Well, yeah but no but. [Vicky even though the energy transfer processes to- the electromagnetic field itself is actually is So let me explain this in a little more which is sort of a random statistical process a continuous laser like a HeNe laser emits a beam is a continuous electromagnetic wave And that is because, almost all the quanta due to the stimulated emission process. If decrease in intensity because of absorption this absorption process has a quantized nature, sort of a random manner in time and also spread So, each absorption event takes sort remaining field, decreasing the intensity a bit. itself is not quantized, this process eventually that is much lower than what is found in spontaneous emission. The field strength can But even though the field is very low, it is So, this could very easily explain why we it is because in essence we have 2 continuous of the beam is far below single photon continuous. And this is very counter-intuitive So basically, I had poor choice of light instead of a laser, my single photon And of course, I would also never have observed The experiment by the way also shows a You see that the interference pattern consists And it is good to realize that these are in we see is CMOS-pixels that collected a specific it is displayed like this, is because I cranked Anyway, even though we are not observing phenomenon, called "shot noise". Basically, we is not the same for each individual measurement. the photon detection for each measurement. when we can never observe interference from just a always involves collecting many photon-detection at interference, is gathering statistical detecting a photon somewhere. And this probability I guess my main problem with understanding the me that the energy in light is quantized. But they so the carrier of the photon energy, is not attenuated, diluted by traveling through space passing a beam splitter. The field has no problem But of course, the probability of detection, being will also be diluted or split. And when we look at interference: these dark and local variations in field strength, due to If you consider the field as the leading the things we observe in diffraction experiments, become almost kind of trivial. Because, if but just of the energy transfer the outcome of the experiment is But what is definitely not trivial to imagine, in space can be converted back to another form So, to get back to our original question: "how consider the photon to be the same thing as the huge. Or at least their volume of interaction is no fundamental limit to its size. But if you between field and matter, then a photon is in fact [DELETED SCENE] Here is the HeNe-laser, a golden At its last calibration, it was generating Hah, I remember that year. [music]