Are you spending too much time Imagine being able to communicate your ideas more but without all the effort. In this video, we'll maker that creates beautiful slides in just I partnered with the Gamma team to show you how head to the following website. You can click on could also click on the card in the top right-hand Free. Then either continue with Google or you finish making your account and you answer a few main Create screen. And we have three different Over on the left-hand side, we can paste in text, text field where you could paste it an outline, or You can do that here. Let's go back. Over on the file, and when I click on that, you have a bunch PowerPoint presentation, a Word document, a PDF, a blog post, or a Notion document. You can use back again. Right here in the center, you can also and that's what we're going to try. Let's click on options for what type of content we'd like to or even a document. I'm on point to make a we can configure how many cards we want. And a When I click on this dropdown, with the free want more than that, you'll have to go with one eight. Right underneath that, I have this text I also see some example prompts. I already have At the Kevin Cookie Company, we're launching a and my manager wants me to pull together a launch descriptive you are, typically, the better the let's click on Generate Outline. It's now that we provided. Here, I can see an outline some type of intro slide at the beginning. A Explosion Cookie. We talk about the ingredients, through the end where we talk about the future. but I could make some adjustments if I want. I want to adjust something higher or lower. I I could click on this plus icon if I'd like to add the way down to the bottom, we also have some example, how much text would we like to include text you include, the better. That way, the visual Down below, you can decide where you would like or you could even have AI generate your images. to envision what they look like, I think AI would option. You can also define the image style. I'll we can also choose the image AI model. Here, I'll some of the most popular AI image generation sentence that describes what this model's good at. a premium subscription. We have a lot available Fast 1.1. It's fast, and it also has good quality. bottom of the page, there's also an advanced mode. audience is for your deck, but I'm good sticking click on continue in just a moment, but right over Over on the left-hand side, you see that with a let's click on continue. On this next screen, We're a cookie company, and I think this theme is light and cheerful and colorful. Over on the would work a lot better. Now click on this, Once you choose your theme, in the top right-hand generate, and this is the fun part. We can This drops us directly into the editor, and the look at this. This is amazing. It even generated Cookies. Over on the left-hand side, I have the presentation. I'll click on the first card or the beautiful looking cookie. That could be the actual Here's the about section. Here we have a section keep in mind, this is just a first draft. I can Here's information about the target audience. we have packaging. Let's go down a little more. this is really good. Imagine trying to pull or Google Slides or Keynote. It would take you a on the left-hand side, we have the film strip different cards in my presentation. I could click specific location within the presentation. I can let's move this slide to the top. And now I have actually want the introduction slide, so let's a thumbnail view, over here, I could also shift of my entire presentation. I kind of like the it looks like, so let's switch back. Although I still have full control over the final output. these cookies are new. I could simply click into a colon. Right up on top, I can also change the this, and here I could adjust the position of the I'll place it there. I could also change the like it to stand out from the rest. I'll click on looks good. Right down here, I could also set it a lot better. It really holds together the entire changes. So over here, I'll click out of that let's jump down to the second slide. On this card, Cookie. And these are all great things to call like to include. It turns out this is actually like to add one more bullet point. And it turns over all of these different bullet points, I see item. And look at that, it automatically adds it the formatting, so we don't have to fumble around added. But there's actually an even easier way. point. And instead, with this slide selected, up AI. This opens up the AI and right up on top, we we see some examples. For example, you can use all sorts of different examples. Down at the very Right up on top, let's type in a prompt. I'll cookie by customers. And let's hit enter to it adds a new bullet point, calls out it's the describing it. And it also matches the formatting looks great. Right up on top here, I can jump back that. Here we see just the four bullet points. change. I think this looks great, so over here, the fourth slide where we talk about the target it feels like the target audience is lacking some Right up on top, just like we did earlier, let's let's simply ask add images for these, and then for all of these different groups. Nice. I also the presentation. Here, for example, I see this and I get this context menu with various controls. remove the background. Or over here, I could currently it's set to AI images, but I could image. Right down below, I have all sorts of other like it. I'll close out of this. Look at how also make edits. You simply type what you want, card to the end of this presentation to close all the way down to slide number seven, and then or at the very end, you get this overlay that I could add a blank card. You could add a card you can also add a card using any one of these options. I just want to go with a blank card, so right up here, I'll type in a title. I'd like on how people would prefer to eat this cookie. And integrate that? You bet you can. To do it, let's helpful hint that says we can press the forward This opens up a list with all the different types insert things like an image. You could also insert a bullet point list. You could even insert things so far, those are all fairly standard for it gets interesting. Down below, you could even from Giphy. If I go down a little bit more, you a TikTok, directly into your slides. And right a Miro whiteboard, an Air Table. And as a quick you could simply type it in. I want to and here's Google Form. I'll select that, and that right-hand side, I can now configure the settings. and here we see a preview of it. And right in I'll close out of this pane, and look at that. presentation. That was so easy. Along with using you can also use the insert widget over on the on this to see all the different basic blocks. videos and media. Here, you can see all the we have all the different charts and diagrams we have forms and buttons. And there was my to get that functionality. This presentation's share this out with a broader team. Up on top, different options when it comes to sharing. Over and you can also define their permissions for can also get a URL that you can share with others. could export as a PDF, as a PowerPoint, or even a into a website. One of my favorite features, once curious, did they look at my slide presentation? Down to the bottom left-hand corner, you could we have all sorts of different analytics. You can top, you can see who's looked at it, and you can is so cool. Right up on top, let's close out of with presentation mode. Over on the left-hand and in the top right-hand corner, let's click on can also use the shortcut key, Control-Enter. your slide presentation using the arrow keys. is so cool. To exit out of presentation mode, work in an organization, you'll absolutely let's click to the home screen. Within the main import. And when I click on this, we have a few there's the option to import a theme. And when I PowerPoint or Google Slides, and Gamma will create colors. That way, when you make a presentation those different assets. And there you have it, an think it's ever been this easy to pull together a You can try it for free. And then let me know watch more videos like this one, please consider