(ominous music) (glasses clinking) - [Gene Cernan] I put the binocu and I can see it spinning around and I wouldn't bet my but it sure has gotta - [Reporter] That was Gene Orbit - We were that first crew to fly this vehicle and test thi that was going to take (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Mankind makes one g and lands the first man on the M a historic achievement for the h But that giant leap took in order for our astronauts to And along the way, many space that our astronauts may have see and anomalous structures - You know, we have a, it's a very interesting there was a Canadian government named Wilbert Smith, and he was very interested Wilbert Smith was a real smart g He was an engineer, he was a sci and he had a kind of a in the Canadian bureaucracy and he was able to go in September, 1950 to the And while he was hanging to some American scientists And this was a scientist who and this man, man whose we learned many years later. It was very, very powerful. Sarbacher says, yes, I can confirm that for you. Their modus operandi is unknown, but the United States government this the most classified subject of all two levels higher which in 1950 was about but flying saucers were higher t So Smith types up this in the Canadian government, But actually, that wasn't that, because years after he died, his private papers were analyzed and the exact name of that And that scientist, Robert and researchers found him. Sarbacher confirmed the He said, &quot;Yeah, that actually So anyway, my point simply is, you've got very clear knowledge circles in Washington back And in the military absolutely UFOs were the most Now, ask yourself, You know, why would that be the if it was all nonsense and and hoaxes and things like this? Well, obviously it's a lot And when you go through such that we have, there's but we have enough to you had countless violations by objects that did not that were doing things that over places that you were Alright, whether that means where the scientists or the Hanford Nuclear Plant which was a major plutonium a lot of toxic waste Or over the Oak Ridge, uh, where again, a great on the atomic bomb All of these very you don't just go but UFOs were hanging and, you know, jets would In one case, we know of anti-aircraft battalions You know, (laughs) Can you imagine if the public They didn't, they didn't until years and years later after these documents were By then, they were just sunk into the black hole of and, you know, no one really But back in 1950, if these I think people would've cared Uh, they were very important. My point here simply is this, the subject of UFOs has to be of the highest level that we know of. And so now, if you've got NASA engaged in any capacity with on any type of classified there is no way ever that they're just gonna oh look, there are all How cool is that? Now, that will never happen. That will never happen and those laws haven't changed. This subject still even well into the 21st century. It is... You know, we can talk a little than say a few years ago. That's interesting and but there's... you know, and thou shall not go over - It was one of these and that's why I was up, because you could and it was an ideal day And it appeared silver There's always metallic. And it was moving at I would say 150 miles And appeared to be maybe - [Speaker] We decided to - And there seems to or some kind of transparency One takes a good look at this and considering that as reported by Lee is that this is moving at This begins to look like a and one can draw the comparison that you have the the windows and the flyer, and that's it. The Catalina film, I'm afraid, falls into the category of an (ominous music) (dramatic music) - [Narrator] The Lunar Orbiter were initiated in early 1964 and consisted of five to investigate the surface The main purpose of the smooth level areas on the to confirm the areas as suitable for the Apollo program. Other program objectives on the Moon's gravitational to provide precision and study radiation in the vicinity of the Moon. The Orbiter took pictures more than 90% of the were transmitted successfully, including the historic taken from the Moon on The Orbiter also obtained during all periods of visibility Some photographs were However, when the during the readout operation, only a small number of and other data collection Lunar Orbiter 2 made to the techniques and data Mission 3 differed from in that it was a rather than a Despite some operational Orbiter 4 was highly successful in fulfilling its purpose. The photographs obtained, at least 10 times better than The photography captured was an incredible improvement This allowed NASA to into sites of interest on The far side photography of essentially all areas not cov during the preceding In the early two thousands, specializing in made a shocking statement to while working for the - I said, who's, what do you He said, yes, there's, a base on the backside And at that point I - [Narrator] Another now famous was spotted by the Lunar a total of 149 medium resolution and 477 high resolution frames were returned from this mission. And in one composite image, an object known as The Shard This object was supposedly and the Sinus midi mare NASA has never acknowledged (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) - And then he pulled out and showed this base which There were towers, there There were very tall towers that looked somewhat but they were large structures. (dramatic music continues) So it was rare that someone but this fellow and I were I think he was very distressed. He had the same power as the scientists outside They were just as concerned and he needed to discuss So, that was the end of I didn't take it any further I just filed it away. But the interesting thing, I would think to myself, I can't wait to hear So I'd turn on the TV to see if they're gonna on the back side of the And of course, here it and we still haven't - Researcher and filmmaker, started his journey into UFOs through Apollo astronaut - Basically, out of this when did you become that NASA astronauts and that possibly had been - I never did, until I actively looking for UFOs I watched an interview with Apollo 14 astronaut sixth man to walk the Moon. And he talked about UFOs here's a man who's got and nothing to gain by - [Reporter] It's the sort of are demanding from the How would people react? - That would be kind of - [Reporter] Former is the sixth man to walk and a firm believer that aliens have visited our planet So I had to ask, why are they coming in and we haven't had a or contact or attempt to - Well, I think we have. - [Reporter] Really? - I think we have, but it - [Reporter] Mitchell told he returned from the Moon, he was briefed at the Pentagon whose name he would not reveal, who said the US government of alien spacecraft and - Well, I think the real reason it is still a secret is power controlling whatever - [Reporter] All of this if it is true. - I mean, I've talked and intelligence folks and they kinda laugh at it, but obviously, they have that we don't know about, But whether they have what they've recovered that's something that I have I'm not saying definitively that they weren't successfully I have seen zero evidence of it. That's just me and all they want and that's fine. (eerie music) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) - [Narrator] The Apollo missions compared to the previous This turned out disastrous for the first Apollo 1 Apollo 2 and 3, which were called AS-202 and in which the newly designed was married to the Saturn July 5th, 1966, of the Saturn 1B rocket, it carried no command as its purpose was to of the S4B rocket stage This would later be used to boost astronauts from on a trajectory to the Moon. It achieved its goals, but the stage was inadvertently Launched unmanned on by a Saturn 1B vector this flight was used to on the command and which was later to perform a man landing On January 27th, 1967 at the Kennedy Space Center, astronauts Grissom, White were sealed inside of their The spacecraft was Numerous communication problems were encountered during the test (radio static crackling) (radio static crackling) - [Narrator] Suddenly in the wiring of the somewhere below Grissom's feet. In the pure oxygen atmosphere, flashed through the spacecraft The crews struggled to open the It was a complex task that Before they could open the fumes given off from (ominous music) (radio static crackling) - [Gus Grissom] Fire! (radio static crackling) (radio static crackling) - One thing to take note of is that many of the about this Apollo spacecraft Concurrently with the Gemini Many of the astronauts swapped over to the and this rapid buildup it was going to cause and errors to that spacecraft. Walter Schirra, he actually one of the pilots of that had been swapped that something didn't ring right about the Apollo 1 spacecraft and that if he saw that he should get out quickly. - [Narrator] After this during the Apollo 1 test, NASA decided to run many that were unmanned. Mike Bara famously &quot;Dark Mission: The Secret in which he speculates that NASA has been covering - The other possibility is that we have had far more than we will acknowledge And it's some of our with the spam in a can. Dudes that are stuck That's what Gus Grissom is we're spam in a can, and they've been to the they've been to Mars already. They got technology we and they're sticking us up here and risking our lives. And of course, he ended and a lot of people have a that he was such a vocal that they had better to go to the Moon and it really made him angry and could have made - [Narrator] November in which the Saturn 5 launch This was the rocket that would (ominous music) On April 4th, 1968, this tested the Saturn 5's ability a trans lunar injection which the later manned Unfortunately, the phenomenon damaged the two Rocketdyne when the internal fuel The Rocketdyne J2 engine also failed to restart So the correct trans lunar Nevertheless, NASA considered ready to receive its first crew. October 11th, 1968, Apollo 7 was the first manned space Donn Eisele, and Walter Cunningham's crew testing a command module designed to orbit the Earth and safely bring humans to The mission objective was to with the command service module. - [Reporter] Apollo 7 for an exhaustive series of its worthiness in space. One of the first things was whether the astronauts combined with the A very similar thing would during the early phases The answer was not - [Astronaut] S4B test complete. - [Astronaut] Beautiful. - [Astronaut] It was outstanding - [Astronaut] Real, fine and ups - [Reporter] Next, and S4B stage were separated. The question now was could turn their and control it to the for future physical linkups For this too would have to And again, the answer was yes. - [Astronaut] A little - [Reporter] Something in the lunar flight or forthcoming Apollo mission were the panels at the They will simply be But they drew comment - [Astronaut] And the slot panel at the top left and bottom And I would about a and the slot panel on the right, just opened though maybe 30 - [Control] All right, Roger. looks like you're looking at - [Narrator] During this for the Saturn rocket system and the astronaut crew This was the first mission and to successfully complete a live video transmission - [Reporter] Always before to be content with merely to our astronauts during In Apollo 7, through the we could actually see them and become better acquainted with weightless life aboard - [Astronaut] You're picking up, I can read now just a minute. It says... (ominous music) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (dramatic music) - [Narrator] Apollo 8 was the second crude and the first mission to bring They were the first humans The first to see the the first to see the and the first to see the sunrise - [Controller] T Minus So we have ignition the engines are on (dramatic music) I have commit, we have liftoff. Lift off at 7:51 am - [Narrator] Apollo 8 took It orbited 10 times (upbeat music) - [Astronaut] This approximately halfway between We've been 31 hours, about We have about less than 40 - [Narrator] So Apollo farther from Earth than A microscopic dot of - [Astronaut] Face of And God said, - [Narrator] The crew also made a televised Christmas Eve in which they read of the book of Genesis. This broadcast was the most - [Astronaut] So the was the first day and God said. (indistinct) - [Narrator] The choice in lunar orbit was made of optimal lighting the Apollo landing site 1. During the mission, astronauts took photos of the Earth including the second which was higher quality taken previously by - [Controller] Apollo 8, what does the old Moon look - [Astronaut] Okay, Houston, No color, looks like plaster of Or sort of a grayish beach sand, because he planted The craters are all There's quite a few of them, some are newer. Many of 'em look like, look like hit by meteorites - [Controller] A level We see the Earth right in the - [Narrator] During the astronauts also to accompany the footage Contrary to popular were not extemporaneous or Rather, both the footage were entirely scripted The Apollo cover story to allow those missions to be while at the same time that evidence of intelligent might have been discovered The scripting protocols followed were for the most part at ensuring the astronauts any sensitive information over the public radio However, when the astronauts in radio contact with they did on occasion make and rather candid comments about what they were observing These comments were mounted inside the Apollo that was known as the equipment recorder or DSE. The Apollo DSE was essentially voice and telemetry In addition to recording a the DSE's 14 track tape many internal crew when the astronauts were not communicating with Although it is presumed were destroyed or lost, the transcriptions were by the woman shown in And although they were those transcripts can be found Many of the comments captured were made when the spacecraft the far side of the Moon with the astronauts not visible from Earth. (eerie music) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (eerie music continues) (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (ominous music) (ominous music continues) - What's very interesting about the Apollo 8 manned we would hear about all that astronauts and UFO being demonstrated in the photos and footage throughout many other That is structures on UFOs, an anomalous activity as well as this eerie that the astronauts only heard when they were on the And what's interesting is that we will hear a more and more evidence of this on the far side of the Moon in the later Apollo 10 And one has to wonder, emanating from a base or that were observed on the or was the sound actually And does the Moon operate to feedback coming from space? - [Narrator] March 3rd, 1969, was the third man's space and the first flight with The crew spent 10 days in testing several critical including lunar module engines, spacesuit life support and docking maneuvers. - We were that first crew to fly this vehicle and that was going to take We were very, very aware and everything has to go right if we're for sure gonna of getting to the Moon We tested every possible The mission was completely the engines and the all kinds of things that - Really very difficult to get the coordinate system Normally, we docked looking and for the dock we went we had to look out this way. So, the control system the way it normally would. - [Astronaut] How does that - [Jim Lovell] Pretty nice. - [Narrator] This was of a lunar module, the first docking and extraction the first completion and the second docking - [Commander McDivitt] both the lunar module and Rusty was going to get out and transfer over to the And we were doing that to (ominous music) (ominous music continues) - [Narrator] Two telecasts were The first, on March 5th, lasted The second telecast on the lasted for about 13 minutes and only showed interior Photographs taken as part of photographic experiment - [Commander McDivitt] get out of the spacecraft too. So we, part of the mission was So, we were all out there - [Narrator] Here we are that we are all part of, but everybody who's alive today and we're all on this as representative of life, we're beginning to move which as far as we know, in our little corner - [Astronaut] Annual - [Controller] Roger, copy. - [Astronaut] I'm gonna oops, I bent that one. - [Astronaut] BTU and averaging 1,300 - [Controller] Jack, - [indistinct] Looks like your water is getting pretty high. You might wanna go to or slow down or something. Looks like your getting (dramatic music) - [Narrator] May 18th, 1969, the Apollo 10 mission was of the Apollo program. - [Astronaut] Roger, Houston, You can tell the world - [Narrator] This mission of the previous two It resulted in the lunar module being placed for the - And they give us a silver I wanted to honor the people So we called it Snoopy, but you needed two names the other one was Charlie Brown. - [Narrator] Stafford in the lunar module, Snoopy, after leaving the command They managed to place themselves in an elliptical lunar orbit about 14 kilometers - You're amazed at what you see. The one thing that always were the size of the boulders. There were these gigantic would be boulder and up on - [Narrator] During the second the lunar module lost control, which was regained shortly by its pilot, Thomas Stafford. - [Thomas Stafford] Yeah, okay. Something went wild We didn't lock it. We're going ahead to - [Controller] Charlie Brown They had a wild gyration though, but they got it under control. - One thing people always ask, were you frightened, The answer is no. We were fighter pilots, So we knew what risk were. You did everything you but there was a risk. So, we understood that. - [Narrator] After the lunar module was into orbit around the Sun. As a final result, the Separation and docking between the command module and the lunar module The lunar module descended of approximately 15 kilometers - Well, we had a series of because we had all the Actually, I went to Neil Here's all the techniques, all the procedures down And you take it there hard 50,000 feet up, it's all done. So they just followed all (ominous music) We were using has some to get the highest resolution. Well, then and radar was going. So radar map, photo - But I'll tell you one we made two passes over and I tell you what, I think I said things that I felt like I had to pick to keep from dragging I mean we were close and at 3,000 miles an hour. So, you can just imagine And it was one of those We didn't have a chance to put And that would've been the Nonetheless, we were to go to the Moon, the first to take the And it was the right decision to get everything done. And we found some problems might have kept us from landing and then paved a way for Apollo to go hand and successfully land So, it was the right - I have, I've looked The Apollo lunar surface On Apollo 10, which is the images of Sinus Medii, because Gene Cernan as well as Apollo 17. And they're at 50,000 feet and he says, wow, we are I'm like there's nothing If the Moon is what unless it's this at 50,000 feet. - [Interviewer] If they're - Yeah, meaning he's in Well, it isn't the mountains, 'cause the mountains - [Narrator] In addition to to the performance of the the DSEA also made of any crew conversation - [Astronaut] Apollo can the LOS, everybody here - [Controller] Okay. on the other side in orbit. - [Astronaut] Okay, this the greatest site ever here. - [Astronaut] Try to (ominous music) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) (ominous music continues) - [Reporter] Noises reportedly by the Apollo 10 astronauts The sounds which lasted were recorded and transmitted - The music even sounds You hear that? That whistling sound? Whoooooooo. - [Controller] We are We don't have any voice - [Astronaut] Roger Houston, You can tell the world - [Controller] Roger 10, - [Gene Cernan] You - [Astronaut] Roger 10, having problems popping up. Oh, we'd like you to go to and then back to narrow over. - [Gene Cernan] No, I can and I put the binocular on it and I can it spinning around and I wouldn't bet my but it's sure gotta be - [Reporter] That was Gene - [Gene Cernan] You know, We're sitting here, it's Looking back at it, Bruce. This is the peacock of And we'd like to say hello Roger. (ominous music) Charlie this is it. It's so hard to describe. You can go right up. Uh, It is incredible. - [Controller] Okay, this has the greatest sight ever. - [Astronaut] You gotta see The land masses don't seem today as they did yesterday. (ominous music) - [Controller] - [Astronaut] We have our overlook at the surface - [Controller] Roger, - [Astronaut] Okay, we're just over into the Mari area and We caught a couple of real there's no doubt about 'em. And we got a couple of and it still looks kind of - [Controller] Roger, - [Astronaut] There was place There was one volcano or that it was all white but definitely black - [Controller] Roger. Charlie, it might sound corny, but the view is really We had a couple of comments. The back row that Apollo 10, Houston, Everybody here says God speed. - [Astronaut] Okay, on the other side in orbit. - [Controller] Oh Roger, - Many skeptics and debunkers will remark on the fact that mainstream media was not and structures being during the Apollo And the simple reason why wasn't exposed to this back during the Apollo missions that information was In fact, the DSEA tapes till 12 years after these And additionally, we didn't fully examined by many and independent researchers until many years after. - How can they keep the secret? Some of these SETI people like I've heard some pretty coming out of these mouths. Like this assumption the media wants this scoop. Well, the media doesn't because they're not and they won't give it, 'cause the intelligence what they can give. And NASA doesn't And I don't care what like to tell the public - So another case like this, is the case of NASA frame This is a photograph or that was taken over the right in the middle Sinus The sea in the middle where was flying by and took This is dead center on If you were to look at you'd see a triangular shaped And then right next to it It's also an area where surveyor while descending to just like a bug went So this is the photograph. This is an original analog by researchers back And it looks pretty This is actually AS10-32-4810. So it's a couple images earlier. It's 12 images earlier than that over the Sinus Medii region. And you notice in the there's all this weird You see all this light sources, now that can't be stars, because the frame exposure If you go much longer than that, the whole foreground is gonna So it has to be really, So it can't possibly be far and galaxies and planets. But if you enhance this image, if you brighten up the because this is what the So what you see is that are actually just points that is in this massive geometric structure above the in the middle of Sinus Medii. Now, if you notice, there and people are like, oh, those are just scratches Well, but that doesn't because when do scratches follow the curvature of And when do they intersect like these do. And again, as an engineer, I look at the spacing. I say this is exactly a grid-like structure over If you zoom in on it, there's And here's spars coming this And here's one crossing. And these are all not scratches. These all have structure They all have, if you look at they all have segments, they that make them appear And when you enhance it looks even weirder. Here's another version with So then you get a couple and you go to AS10-32-4816. So four photographs later, over Here you have the same You have these little which should not be there And then when you enhance This looks like, I don't The Twin Towers. I mean when you look and also notice this isn't some sort of like because if it was, it would Yet, there's this big hole stuff in the background, And when you zoom up you can see just how They look like big glass So having found this stuff, Hoagland was really So he went and he got himself an old North American from the time period. And as he looked at these oh, well, look at some These other catalog images They look really over which is completely blacked out. It's like they left the lens So what did he do? He ordered the blacked out And when he got AS10-32-4822, again, taken just what, he got this area of Sinus Medii, which is about the size and has been analyzed this is a completely Again, 90 degrees, that kind of thing, as if you And as you zoom up on And then there are objects that then seemed to disappear. What they did is they once they thought they They ordered 4822 from nine that existed at the time where you could get photographic Hawaii, Maryland, Washington DC. And what they found is that of AS10-32-4822 were different. So what they realized was was probably a power The spacecraft is moving the astronauts looking he's got a power winder He pushes down his 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9. And so, objects would appear in some versions of 4822 Here's an example of It looks like a giant paper If you go back to Los That object should be But then the next frame, because the light changes. So this is a huge antenna. This tower is a couple and whatever this thing is, It does not belong on the Moon. If the Moon is what NASA And there are other frames that show weird light reflection like there's lights on And then there's this object, which is my favorite one on It's pretty famous. It's called The Castle. And it appears to be hanging Just hanging there in space It has segments that clearly There's even a indication of a, like a sagging line. - Yeah, scaffolding or that it's hanging from. You can see that this, is pulling on this wire And it does appear in a couple different versions of the frame. Here's the one with the is obviously the next one where the thing has not because now the spacecraft So, it's changed direction The wire disappears that and it's narrower. See how it's narrower - [Interviewer] It's under - Right, and basically, because the light geometry the light is not now bouncing like it was a split second because the spacecraft is moving at thousands of miles an hour. And again, you go up to and you can see that an internal geometry to it. There's a lot of cells It is absolutely fascinating. And they hid, they knew because they hid all under one frame number. It should be 4822, 4823, 4824, all the way up to 4832. But it's not, it's all buried which they, I will remind you, blacked out in the catalog, 'cause they didn't want But because of the the weird, strange symbolism they couldn't just completely They had to give you some If it wasn't for Hoagland we would never have (dramatic music) (high pace music) - For the first time, to set foot on the Moon surface. This is the television will record that historic event. You'll see it live on I'm Stan Lebar Westinghouse for Apollo television cameras. The public is probably with this color television that was used by astronaut And this is a camera that extraordinary color pictures Incidentally, this color in the command module But the world attention on this small black and that will be located in the lens and it will record the astronaut as he descends to the and takes those first - [Controller] This is We passed the six minute mark in our countdown for Apollo 11. The flight to land the The vehicle's starting to pressu as far as the propellant and all is still go as we Firing command coming in now. They're on an automatic sequence as the master computer occurring over these last Neil Armstrong reported back when he received the good wishes Thank you very much. We know it will be Good luck and God speed. 40 seconds away from All the second stage 35 seconds and counting. We are still go with Apollo Guidance is internal. 12, 11, 10, 9, (rockets blasting) - [Narrator] July 16th, 1969, Apollo 11 was the fifth of the US Apollo program and the first in history to (suspenseful music) (rockets blasting) - [Gary Martynuik] Today, I at a very brief segment of footage from the NASA archives that was originally shot during the flight of Apollo 11. And the footage was taken throug one of the windows of the during what was called or TLC phase of the mission. And this was the three-day were crossing the almost cislunar void that separates And at some point during this outbound journey one of the Apollo 11 astronauts did some unscheduled shooting with the 16 mm &quot;DAC&quot; And in the process several unidentified objects And to show you what I mean, While this particular clip digitally archived by NASA, it appears to be about it is not actually showing us a one second period of This clip we're examining time compressed stop And in this case, the of 11 individual distinct that were originally exposed intervals over a period of 11 And this type of stop because the Mauer 16 mm DAC throughout the Apollo program a variable frame rate that was capable of shooting at four different preset either 1, 6, 12, or 24 frames And in the case of this footage, at the correct one frame they instead incorrectly as if it had been shot at 12 So this means that NASA actually present this stop motion that it is being shown that's 12 times faster than what the frames were Whatever these objects are, they are clearly flying And we can say with certainty not any declared We don't know what they how they got there, or what they're doing there. And that by definition puts them into the category of being - So if somebody's gonna from a very top secret and for example, some people that might have been what's It's supposed to be this that was a crew and that would take stuff to what people label a What do you think about that? - I don't believe it. - You don't believe it? - Nope, don't believe it. - Would you say that - I think that the I mean that was like from the eyewitness testimony, including the Governor And it could hover very, And when it took off, like at the speed of light. I mean, it would change a little bit and just gone. And then you have the from the witnesses that So, I'm not gonna sit there I definitively can make that there's no such thing I just haven't seen the and I haven't heard the And I'm highly dubious, putting out a film on a with live aliens in the town, but I haven't seen the evidence. I mean, it makes sense there are sightings here. Why wouldn't there be It's not my area of expertise. I don't dig into, I and if it leads me to And if not, you know, that what Fay Ann Potter told me about her brother Buzz Aldrin, that they saw something (rhythmic suspenseful music) (rhythmic suspenseful (dramatic music) - [Narrator] The lunar of that same year. And the following day, the first to walk on the (dramatic music continues) - [Astronaut] Okay, engine or control both auto-dependent Engine arm off. For 13 is in. - [Astronaut] We copy it down, Houston, uh... - [Controller] Roger tranquility You got a bunch of guys we're breathing again, - When we did get close and saw it for the first It was gigantic, it - Flying through the Moon shadow and seeing the Sun eclipsed by that was a very - [Narrator] Commander to set foot on the surface on July 21st, 1969 at 02:56 south of the Sea of Tranquility, six and a half hours This historic milestone was from the Parks Observatory - [Neil Armstrong] Here, first step foot upon the moon, We came in peace (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) - [Astronaut] It's beautiful. - [Astronaut] Isn't that Say here are you talking about They can cut some fresh some Make a nice photograph. (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) They can cut some fresh some Make a nice photograph. (dramatic music continues) - There's this thing and it's an image that that had actually been posted back in the early days And it had a number that was the name of the image. And it showed what an artificial structure on but nobody really knew The AS11 indicated that and it took researchers to actually find the image. And it turned out the Now this is interesting, because it was an image it was a photograph that by one of the Apollo 11 either Neil Armstrong, Buzz shooting out the window as they were flying over on trans Earth injection. They had already fired they were heading towards Earth and they were just out of the backside of the Moon. Now, the interesting they took these pictures just, probably with a power winder, one after the other, But the film was so good just lots and lots of This is the image as it And it's an image of a Now, this thing is very, very it's actually Daedalus R, And Daedalus is dead center In other words, it's the the other side of Sinus Medii So you might expect to I have a feeling this is why So in that area, and again, this is Sinus Medii with pretty interesting stuff. And then on the back So, as we looked at this thing, it began to look more that was completely artificial And again, I went through tried to get more detail out. And what you see, is these four walls, sort of a weird angled Kind of there's a triangle and then there's like a There's a passageway to and like a little dome on top. Pretty bizarre stuff. Well, somebody pointed the Ziggurat at Ur in And yeah, here's this Here's these entrances, this is what it looked like in the 1930s and it's And this is what the original You have exterior walls, you have an interior you have a single which is how they were And then you have these Now, if you were to take and like fill them in, So, a little dome right here So, it looks basically like this Like there's an and an interior structure And again, I'm gonna remind you, here's a dome, here's a here's an interior here's the interior square here's the exterior walls, And then here's, if you and filled it in, it would look probably The problem is when it doesn't really look So we finally found the object This is the area involved. This is the original image by a guy named KK Samurai, That was what he called himself. He's the one who found that by a very interesting character. So here is the Daedalus It's gone, right? Where is it? Well, it's actually right here in the middle. But there's the front ramps, but it's all gone. It's just blank, it's And again, I did the best with what they have on It doesn't look like They've blurred it out. They've added shadows. And again, I'm gonna I went and analyzed the and this area here. And again, it's one color, over the entire thing. That means they drew on If they drew on this, they So, again, from a it kind of looks like the but it actually really doesn't. They're trying to convince but an optical illusion. Now, I got into very with a couple of NASA guys They're like, oh, it's You know, you can't, You don't know what But clearly what's happened the original image from drew his conclusions is completely different The problem is, is we didn't where he got this Where did he get it But here's the thing, the Ziggurat right here. But as I looked at this even though they had there was a lot of other on here they didn't erase. A lot of interesting stuff. These are some of the as we go through them There's this particular, which is just a sort of But then what is this What is this one up here? Number five, up in the And as we zoom up on that, I see stuff that with my looks really, really weird. This is the area where they have blacked out the sky behind this. Well, what is this thing? Well, if you look at because what you've got cut into the side of It's filled in with debris And that would be the You're looking at it at an angle and then this is some sort with something else going on. Like what the hell are See, stone, spire, stone, But it's right there and Because if you have one anomaly, if there's nothing else you can't really say It could just be, again, a So let's go back and there's like a tube that that runs for miles and and then seems to attach underneath this overhanging This thing is hanging there. There's all kinds of structure. It's just bizarre. - People who come here and look at our spacecraft, are most often struck by which from their perspective From our point of view, was a wonderful improvement which were really cramped. And so, we enjoyed the luxury - Yeah, I thought we had We had hot and cold water. The food was even edible. All in all, it was a nicely and we could comfortably far in excessive eight days. - [Narrator] On July achieved a perfect of the Pacific Ocean (inspirational music) - Well, it proved that could accomplish if they worked together - After the flight of Apollo 11, Neil Armstrong, Buzz Alder and I had an around the world tour. And every place we went, in some places have the oh, well you Americans Not at all, the attitude, regardless of their they all said, we did it, (audience applauding) (audience applauding continues) - It was our pleasure to have participated in one It's an adventure not just in the month of July, but rather one that took We all here and the had the opportunity to over its developing in the past months and years. It's our privilege today some of the details of That was certainly the highlight for the three of us of We're going to divert from the format of past and talk about the things In particular, the things on and about the Moon. - [Reporter] Apollo 11 the second man to walk has actually given an that certain segments were indeed carefully scripted to control exactly what Back in 2003, Aldrin was for Neil Armstrong's only And during that interview, whether some of the live that were made from the really were improvised And in response, Aldrin quote went to great lengths to make sure that they And he then goes on to and I'll quote Aldrin - We will use a number which most of you have and with the intent of some of the things that which may not be who are looking at them here - [Narrator] This motion was recorded during the Apollo and famously presents an orb-lik flying along the lunar horizon. (ominous music) - What's very interesting about is that this mission also would anomalous or UFO activity In fact, one of the rumors is that a craft was waiting. A non-terrestrial craft was for the Apollo 11 astronauts when they did their first Another rumor that actually the Apollo 11 astronaut himself, was that a UFO was following on the way to the Moon in And the astronauts had while they were floating (ominous music) (ominous music continues) - Buzz Aldrin could have been that actually proved there happening in outer space. But unfortunately, he on his initial story in - There was something out to be observed and, uh, Mike decided he thought he and he was able to do that. And when it was in one position that had a series of ellipses, but when you made it real sharp, it was sort of L-shaped that Now obviously, the three of Hey Houston, we got something and we don't know what it is. Can you tell us what it is? We weren't about to do that, 'cause we know that would be heard by all and who knows what that we turned back or whatever the reason is. So, we didn't do that, we just cautiously ask how far away was the S4B. And a few moments later and said something like, because of the maneuver. So, we really didn't think looking at something So, we decided that after it was time to go to sleep and until we came back I saw this illumination that with respect to the stars. We were smart enough to not say, Houston, there's a light out So, technically becomes an (Echo) Flying object. [indistinct] - All I can think about. But in any case, I was on and I turned out I got but Mickey Rooney was like, when you're not here And I said, &quot;I'm making a He goes, &quot;Oh, I'm friends and you should talk He's got some pretty And so, that was my initial Um, And then I would say I met Fay Ann Potter, So I'm talking to Fay I found out it was her And I'm like, I worked and I found out through that your brother had but I didn't get any specifics. She said, oh yeah, he had and one was when this is what she told me, this is what Buzz Aldrin's She said that he had, and I but I think it was before He was flying a fighter And she said that he was that he called her and he He said he chased it till didn't catch it. That's what she told me. Then she said he also told her that they... saw something, or something followed But it was like not just I think it went on for That's what she told me. So, between Fay Ann and his wife, Jan Rooney, they said, we think we can get you an So, they got my foot in the Good kid, he's doing and Buzz Aldrin agrees - He's in Europe. - That's the problem. He was in France on tour for Yes, I'll meet with James, and I'm gonna be in Monte If he wants to meet me I'll meet with him and So of course, I'm gonna do that. And I've got Buzz Aldrin, from somebody, And we get to his hotel and Mr. Fox? say, Yes? And I, okay. And he gives me the phone I can't do the interview. I said, it's like, what do you can't do the interview? I traveled all this way. He said, I can't do it. He said, it was Paul Allen. - [Darcy Weir] Paul Allen? - It was Paul Allen. He said, Paul Allen and he was labeled a UFO - And he didn't wanna - And he said, I'm trying to develop a rocket that'll and I will not jeopardize And how's my coming forward And I responded how I felt well, with all due respect, sir, it takes people of your stature to elevate this whole, out of the rut that it's in. And your contribution, would be of the utmost You know? And he was almost kind like, well, I did And, um, But he said, how's my story He didn't deny it at all. And he was gonna go on - 12 men have ever And the man who anyone walked on the Moon He was part of the first The national astronaut He's here with a model He was with the first pair And Buzz, the panel they might wanna pop But Buzz, what's your What did you see? - What did I see? Well, the first day out, we were scheduled to make I'd like to show you a just to point out the We separate the command and it turns around like this and it docks with the Now, notice these three whenever the command module those panels go off in And we can look out and see the Earth drift by - [Larry King] And what - And I saw a light out there. Okay, this is after we the upper stage rocket make an evasive maneuver And we thought, You know, there are a when you're not looking in There are a lot of stars relative to each other. Now, one of 'em starts and we know that that's another We started thinking a about these four panels where it showed the that was calculated before the whole mission went of where these panels would be in case the spacecraft and they guaranteed - Hold it right there, - Fast forward... - many years later, - Oh my God. - So I had no idea. I get- I had broken a story who was the former - And- - The Phoenix Lights that he'd seen it, he did and that he felt It was a big story. And I was all over the news I think it was the 60th but I'm not positive. - Larry King Live. - Yeah, Larry King Live. And I see Buzz Aldrin and I walked outta and I turned over to the former Governor of Arizona. And I said, man, This is the first time since he canceled this interview or whatever it was. And really no explanation and I know he's had these, they're gonna get him out here And Fife says, you know, James, that guy's an iconic figure I mean, he landed on the You really can't be doing that to him on a national - He might even punch you. - But he is a big, he is - He's a hero. - And so I toned it down and then I just watched him, basically lie on live television - What did I see - [Larry King] Yeah, you saw- - one of the four panels, - Okay, I was told by a that you actually saw - A lot of people have - I don't want to reveal - That doesn't mean that I saw. (panelists speaking (ominous music) - In your years of flying, - Oh. you've seen strange things. - Well, yeah, I was flying and I looked out and saw but it wasn't a star, But it kept following me And you would swear that and you can turn. And I wanna congratulate last night with all because now we're getting a And can you explain with Chris Angel last night? - No, you can't. - Doesn't make it. - [Buzz Aldrin] That's right. - Here's what I'm gonna do, folk I'm gonna take a break, come - One of my biggest regrets was I didn't get Fay Ann Potter I never thought she would I didn't even know she was sick, But Fay Ann Potter told me that he had a very dramatic while he chased the disc, 'cause it is what she said. While piloting in a fighter jet. And that they were that they were not able She did not say he had She didn't tell me that. She said on the way to the Moon. - Right. - Now, what happened I have no idea, but - Apollo 11 was purely symbolic. It was land on the Moon avoid all this stuff that because there's a whole theory. That we can land on the Moon, and it was out in the and it was where the stars were aligned properly in for Buzz Aldrin to perform which consecrated the Moon and Apollo 11 tranquility That was the purpose. All the other missions Let's go land where we ancient alien technology, call it an anarchy Left behind and bring it back and do a Terminator to reverse And I mean, it's pretty clear as you look at the Oh, did they see that? Yeah, I'm sure they saw that. Did they see this? Yeah, I'm sure they saw that. I'm sure they realized because they were very well (upbeat music) - Welcome to Tucker Carlson. Today, the crazy thing is how when you get into a lot of the people about the topic turn out to be. They're kind of the opposite They're not for conspiracy nuts. A lot of them are Garry Nolan is definitely He's a Harvard, he's a Stanford PhD, an immunologist. And he has over the spent a lot of time that apparent encounters with - So my main job, for the last 30 years has been the development of It was circa 2011 or so when and an aerospace company to ask me for their of some individuals had encountered some And I mean they came to and then started laying and data on the table Then that's a huge to deal with those. In fact, the Senate Intelligence just came out with a that has language to look at the Havana and to understand it. Also has interesting, I it also has language about UAPs. And basically, admonishing you guys have been No, no more, whistleblower They actually, there was where they wanna go all collect, they want the, all the Defense Department to collect all the information around events that They want all of, interestingly, the NDAs, the non-disclosure they want those all listed, because the NDAs are And that means they can start to name the people who They want all of the information and the obfuscation that's And they want information about the medical harms - If we look at this that happened with the it gives one hope about the in which we might get The fact that we're not These congressional hearings are going to testify Experiencers being people and actually were by their proximity to Now, these experiencers but it pains me to think that important whistleblowers are no longer around in these congressional hearings. Karl Wolfe passed away in 2018. Just like John Mack was and this tragically In 2018, Karl Wolfe was when he was on his bike. And this is a very His family mourns his loss, as does the - Well, let's say we know and let's say it's 1960 and we know some of Well, you think of the The world of 1960, no way would that world be ready for some of the of what we think we know now. Because actually our has gone way deeper in our era In the past, the day the Earth stood still, you know, men, maybe from another world in have just arrived. And you know, that whole thing. And that's how people were That's what they thought. Or at least some of them were And that's clearly not whatever the reality of this is, this phenomenon signifies a That we're gonna have to So let's say back in 1960, And we have to ask ourselves, what the hell do we do And how could we ever get the And if we were to really we would realize this This cannot happen right away. There's no way. No way. - I don't think it's gonna that have been following that Apollo 12 has many of structures on the Moon and UFOs that we will also see (ominous music) (dramatic music) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues) (dramatic music continues)