- [Falcon] The PS5 Pro I think everybody knows but there are some things and if you pay attention Hi folks, it's Falcon, and today on Gameranx, 10 hidden features we Starting off with number 10, most of what we know about the PS5 Pro is because Sony told us. We knew certain select PlayStation 5 games would get Pro exclusive that would make 'em look better and play better in performance modes. That's good stuff. I like that. But something they never explicitly said is how the PS5 Pro enhances If you've had any experience with the PlayStation 4's mid you are probably looking out for it. But after some testing on our end and looking to see what people it's clear the PS5 Pro that are getting patches. It can and will improve in your collection. Before I talk about this any further, I want to give a shout out who are keeping tabs on the And I want to signal boost keeping track of all the games and also the standard It's definitely the best how everything's I'm not sure why Sony collecting this information, but whatever, at least someone's putting in the work and collecting all the data. From my research, and again, we've done there are a few non PS5 enhanced games that got the biggest boosts. &quot;Elden Ring&quot; in general is a lot smoother, like it could be played at a much more stable 60 While the fidelity stuff at generally 10 frames per second faster than on a standard PS5. And while that doesn't sound great, it actually makes a really big difference. &quot;Devil May Cry 5&quot; special You can play it on 60 FPS or even higher with ray tracing enabled if you switch to 120 hertz mode. Seriously, it can increase by 25 to 60 additional frames per second. That is not patched. If you're really curious, just You'd be really surprised. There's a lot of games that run just as fast on fidelity modes as they do on performance now. I mean that's of course not but a game that ran well before, it's gonna run even better on PS5 Pro. Like if it had dropped in a lot of cases, it's gonna not have 'em on the PS5 Pro. At number nine is the 8K output mode. Probably the craziest and on the PS5 Pro is this. If you're a mad man with an 8K display, it's probably not gonna be but if you are, these things cost like absurd amounts of money. But if you are and have to get a PS5 Pro and that, There are only two games that actually support 8K resolutions and as Sony warrants, it's experimental. So the games may not perform that well and may run into weird The two games are &quot;Gran Like those are literally in the entire library that So while it's something that people who have followed PS5 but it's one of the because so few people are going From what I've seen, &quot;Gran Turismo 7&quot; utilize the PSSR mode, which is just, it's the that Sony has in the PS5 Pro. From the footage I've seen, and it actually doesn't So if you do have a screen there's no reason not to give it a whirl. I wouldn't buy a screen for it though. That's two games with compatibility, two, editor insert, At number eight, there's a way to find PS5 Pro supported A common complaint I've is that there's no way to tell and which ones didn't, all of them got some form of enhancement. It's just that with certain But anyway, there's no like little mark or message that explicitly is enhanced or not and even But there is a way to find every game that's getting some kind of enhancement. It's just not very intuitive. When Sony released the Pro, they secretly added a new So it lets you search that are enhanced. In order to find it, you just scroll down to the PS5 tab, or anything really as long as it opens up the search browser, and then press left to highlight the sort function, open that, and look for And under that, is a tab Check that and you'll find a list of games that have or are going to have some form of Pro enhancements. It's annoying. Some of the games do not and unless you're already they're getting, it can be For a lot of this stuff, when they're getting patched. So as of now, this is more than a practical one. Still there is a way to see what games are enhanced with the Pro. So that's something. At number seven, there's a There's a truly hidden that Sony did not mention anywhere because 95% of people could care less. But guys who appreciate or just care about the long-term health of their system, it's appreciated. The CMOS or the button cell battery is an essential part It's the thing that and if it dies, the entire Usually takes a lot of time like seriously a long time, But under adverse conditions, it can die pretty quick I know that's a pretty wild variation, but they're both possible. Now if one of the things you have to get all the in order to replace it, and it's just all around PS5s are not meant for layman to open up. They're pretty tricky to Easy to make mistakes is what I'm saying. You can leave the console in a worse state than when you started, not fun. PS5 Pro makes this way easier by making it so you can reach the as pulling the extra hard drive. You just crack it open No additional screws to It's not something most users are gonna have to worry but when the time comes I'm thankful they made it easy to do. At number six, the PS5 Standard PS5 games obviously did get some noticeable improvements, but did you know the PlayStation VR is also improved with the Pro? Now, not every game is of the new system, but for it can be a big difference. There are also rare few that From what I've seen, the VR2 games that benefit most from the which just looks massively better than it used to using the headset. And &quot;Vertigo 2&quot; has and &quot;Cyube's&quot; VR draw distance Even &quot;Gran Turismo 7's&quot; VR They are minor though. We don't know a lot about by the Pro, but from everything I've seen outside of &quot;No Man's Sky,&quot; the Still, a lot of us would affect the VR at all. So seeing it does offer some At number five, there actually for PS4 games. Now, I'm sure everybody does offer improvements for PS4 games, but what you might not realize is you actually have and manually turn it on. It's pretty simple. You just have to know where to look. Go to the settings, scroll find the PS4 enhanced And you can't actually do anything here if you don't have a 2K which should give you a clue as to exactly what the setting is. It's not for universal improvement, it's mostly just to make PS4 games look a little better on That's not to say they If they've got an uncapped frame rate and the additional power of the Pro, it's gonna have better It's not a game changer for PS4 games, but if you're using them on anything above regular old HD resolutions, you're gonna want to turn this setting on. At number four, the PS5 It's one of those technical things that Sony didn't really play up very much in the lead to the Pro's release, but anyone with a wifi this can and will make the PS5 Pro run much, much faster on The standard PS5 only went up to wifi six and not even wifi six E, So the differences in connections between the consoles The Pro is a lot faster when it comes to Of course, an ethernet connection is always going to be but sometimes you can't through the middle of your house or the PS5 is just too far away. So if you're stuck with wifi and you have a very fast internet, the Pro is gonna give you a At number three, the PS5 The improved wifi brings other benefits like faster streaming for people with a PlayStation It's a niche product that Sony hasn't been but if you're using the PS5 Pro, there's gonna be improvements here. The bit rate on the so it's never gonna be perfect. But for everything I've read online, it seems like the Portal has and the lag situation seems better. Games that use PSSR are with better resolution at a This is anecdotal, and directly to test this out, combined with the better it leads me to believe the Portal has to be seeing improvements even if they're ultimately not massive. At number two, some games Not exactly a feature, but if you're getting a PS5 Pro, you should watch out for a couple of games because they're not actually enhanced. They're actually worse. Most games look the same or better, but a few games are not &quot;Alan Wake 2&quot; in particular It's got an unstable image, and there's some serious unless you turn off motion blur. Another game we got hit it's the &quot;Silent Hill 2 Remake.&quot; It doesn't yet have a patch, but there's some pretty A few games have enhancements that end up making the game run worse. Again, &quot;Alan Wake 2,&quot; where they added some new graphics effects but it made it so the game's than the standard PS5 version. &quot;Jedi Survivor&quot; and &quot;Star Wars Outlaws&quot; not looking so hot either. Another case where the PSSR seems to cause a lot of ugly shimmering. There are a few more games that aren't as good as they should be, but those four in particular got hit the hardest with the transition. With any luck, these games so they don't look so I have to imagine the will probably happen sooner because obviously it's not a year old. It's quite new still, but it also may be a fairly minor issue that doesn't take a lot to fix. I expect they all will get fixed. How soon, I'm not sure. At number one, certain settings can lead to massive improvements. With all of the PS5 Pro enhancements, the amount of options to fine but it can also be a little confusing. Sometimes, certain options Sometimes, they make Sometimes, they offer huge improvements to have comparatively few drawbacks. For some games, turning on the VRR or a variable refresh rate that makes 'em run significantly faster with no loss in fidelity. Like VRR in &quot;Horizon Forbidden West&quot; can add 30 additional frames per second on top of the game's 60. It could swing pretty hard but it's generally above 60. &quot;Last of Us Part One&quot; does better, gaining 10 to 30 FPS when you toggle VRR. Another game that really benefits from the Pro is &quot;Dragon's Dogma.&quot; If you disable ray trace it's an extra five to 10 FPS and with the standard settings on the Pro, you're already getting on average and play the game it's even better. You get 18 frames per second improvements on top of everything else. It makes this notoriously Most of the improvements come It's not gonna happen automatically. So experimenting is essential to get the most out of the Pro, or just look up what I think that's the faster It's annoying that console games are starting to look more but hey, it's the Pro. It's for power users. So if you want the very best, Better performance doesn't Or just look up the recommended settings. That's easier. And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first So click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications. And as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon. You can follow me on We'll see you next time