The year is 410 A.D. The Visigoths, led Rome. The tribe has pillaged, looted, and leaving devastation behind. The first sacking weakened the once-unstoppable force that was the corruption running rampant, and the Roman Empire was on the road to collapse But what if all of this never happened? but all the internal strife and political causing it to crumble in 476 A.D. world--and the Empire itself--look Of course, we're not the first to pose this be the last. Historians and scholars have exploring what could've transpired if the mighty That's why it's not surprising that there are the alternate fate of the Roman Empire. Of contributed to this number of theories, as it could've turned itself around. That's not to to Rome's collapse in the first place. theories within a single video might not don't want this video to last longer than So, we'll embrace a single course of alternative resolve its internal issues before the shadows But remember, we're dealing with the butterfly rest of this hypothetical history in unimaginable recounting of an alternative history in as it will explore the broader implications and No matter which school of thought you subscribe would've been dramatically different if the Roman standing, it would undoubtedly shape the future of But before delving into these ways, we only by understanding why the Roman Empire an alternate history where it stood resilient. tale shaped by economic decline, military and social transformations. However, to specific moves made by inept emperors. Tiberius Julius Caesar Augustus was the second Tiberius made a fatal mistake, one that would both East and West. He failed to crush and During Tiberius's rule, the Empire also conspiracies against the Emperor and his heirs, Prefect of the Praetorian Guard, Sejanus. Emperor's elite protectors, the Praetorian under Sejanus's guidance. Eventually, this elite than he had over them. At best, this led to the a shadow government. At worst, it irrevocably One of the most significant ways the of the Roman Empire was by frequently And if you know anything about the Roman Empire, this mighty civilization. In fact, many people key factors in the decline But this is far from powerhouse. Another crucial element in unraveling political and administrative structures. Nero--or Nero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus, whose egregious actions ultimately contributed his actions during his 14-year rule impact of unchecked power, so it shouldn't Let's not sugarcoat it - Nero did a lot of cost the Roman Empire was wasting extravagant That's why when the Great Fire of Rome broke was ill-prepared to handle the crisis. Nero to compensate for the financial shortfall he still not enough money. He began minting more coins, ultimately move marked the beginning of a terrible pattern of Roman coins whenever they strayed even In their minds, it was only a matter of time influx of wealth. But in reality, they created the most prominent causes of the so-called Empire nearly collapsed for the first time. primarily responsible for the shortcomings Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, better known 198 to 217 A.D. During his rule, the constant Roman soldiers, as they demanded higher pay Trying to please the soldiers--and ultimately citizenship to all free men living in Roman land. and give the economy a much-needed boost. in the long term was limiting the size of the But how is this even possible? How did we get from a less powerful Roman military? Before the Caracalla's Constitutio Antoniniana in by serving in the military for 25 years. After a reward. This meant they could vote in elections, and even be immune to specific local laws. citizenship, it shouldn't be surprising that Roman Empire, answering every call to defend it. things took a 180-degree turn. your life on the battlefield when you can acquire It's safe to say the Roman To put this into perspective, let's compare and after Constitutio Antoniniana. Ecnomus in 256 B.C., during the First Punic mobilized a fleet of approximately 330 ships with Republic had a population of 5 to 7 million. the fourth century A.D. The entire standing 650,000. This figure might not seem so bad until 55 million people at the time. For the Battle of the Catalaunian Plains in victory took place, the Empire barely managed to them were even Romans. Sure, this army managed to of soldiers fighting for Rome underscored the Still, the Roman victory in this battle goes to its Barbarian adversaries by a great margin, even soldiers to fight off these tribes indefinitely. we arrive at the fall of the Roman Empire. event let's discuss how Rome could've been saved. as possibilities for saving the Roman Empire Here are two popular but highly Some scholars believe that if Emperor Valentinian hadn't died from a sudden stroke in 375 A.D., inviting the Goths into the Roman Empire in as troops. But as virtually any Emperor's plan as the Goths turned against the Romans. fifth-century expedition to North Africa wasn't sabotaged, the Roman Empire would've it to rebound economically in a few decades. singular event and how it might've changed would've happened if Rome's primary issues So, in our alternative history, Germanicus is eventually assimilating it into the Roman Empire. making it more defensible and alleviating in our timeline, Sejanus never comes to power, to the Emperor. With this, the Roman Empire is avoiding the political turmoil that But that's not the only change made to One of the greatest issues Rome had was that the Emperor. This also meant that one person that could profoundly impact an entire "With great power comes great responsibility." for many Emperors, leading them to make risky or rule has been established early on, allowing two But these are not just any Emperors. exclusively by the best of the best, not those Guard. This means that Caligula and Claudius let's face it - they only came to power Other notable changes to the history of the on Britannia much sooner, in the absence of any Rome to control its maritime trade routes economic strength and strategic influence. In reality, it took Rome quite a long time to become a more formidable opponent. This eventually So, in our reality, the Roman Empire has Next up? Dacia and Parthia. the second century A.D. In an effort to expand its and crushed the Parthians in an epic battle. The by two factors - its increasing stability and thanks to the joint rule, our Roman Empire of its wide-reaching lands. While one Emperor is preventing any chances of a disruption of power. With this ancient land conquered, our trade connections with the East. On the one exotic goods and Eastern philosophies to the the Empire gets the chance to return the favor, But this newly established connection to Asia positive exchanges. It also becomes a potential Now, don't get us wrong - these plagues reached Plague of 165 to 180 A.D. as an example. But in several decades sooner, potentially affecting more But even this could've been a blessing The Antonine Plague might've encouraged the Empire it from spreading. The affected groups could've a mighty fortress along the Eastern frontier in eventually help the Roman Empire keep the Unfortunately, the plagues aren't the only In fact, if the Roman Empire had continued a whole host of internal and external The Empire's first significant test would as the Huns emerged as a formidable force on the Roman Empire and the Huns would not be probably have lasted for at least 50 years but Huns dead at the hands of the Roman legions. in the seventh century A.D. as the Muslim their influence. However, this threat halting Muslim expansion into Roman territories. last of the Muslim attacks on Rome, effectively counter each future incursion. the spread of Islam in the world. seventh century A.D. and rapidly spread across Empire still been standing at this point, its the trajectory of Islam's spread. At best, the potentially leading to a more localized almost completely wiped out in the Roman Empire However, this doesn't mean Islam wouldn't have Though regions like Levant, Syria, Mesopotamia, the Roman Empire religion-wise, Islam would find In fact, this religion might've even spread as the Muslim caliphates would have directed all The only event that could've stopped this in the early 13th century. This empire, led Islamic practices, as it did in reality. they could've gone either way, really. as they spent more time in the Islamic regions. the influence of the Roman-controlled Middle East. happened to this religion had First, let's get our facts straight - Christianity religion of the Western Roman Empire by the fourth this religion would likely only spread it might've even become the dominant religion the stability of the Roman Empire. several other factors could've influenced First of all, in the alternate reality, this demographic change, allowing the Emperors greater Next, the popularity of this religion, combined would've converted virtually all Roman which would only further aid its spread. would also have played a huge role in spreading the well-established trade routes would've transmitting ideas, including religious ones. Christianity would likely become a global force. different than the one we know today, Roman Pagan customs to some extent. The likely contributed to a more unified Europe. existence of the Roman Empire would impact Europe. would've prevented Europe from splitting into centralized continent. This means that there alternate reality, as these and similar nations Of course, this new, homogenous Europe would look institutions, legal systems, and cultural norms. For instance, what would've happened Roman Empire had still existed? likely been a part of the Roman Empire. North America in the 10th century. At this as mighty as ever, which means word would've And where there's new land, there's In our alternate reality, the Roman Emperor North America. Realizing the potential of in its entirety. Of course, this wouldn't happen of approximately 9,540,000 square miles. two to three centuries to subjugate North For Rome, this would mean an abundance and timber. For the world, it would that would put all the other ones to shame. East and West, remain united? By this point, the Roman Empire would've had a allowed the Western and Eastern halves to This includes the growing cultural, economic, However, it's important to note that this split. Instead, the two parts of the Roman there would probably be some bouts nothing that would lead to a complete fracture. shaping the entire world, reaching far beyond what one school of thought, the Roman Empire would've the entire world, earning the title of the But would this mighty empire bring The answer to this question is fiercely Let's hear from those who believe the lead to a technological boom first. the Roman Empire would've grown immensely allowing it to invest huge amounts of resources network would allow the Empire to acquire fostering a cross-cultural exchange However, the opposing school of thought of the Roman Empire that created the Despite a popular misconception, the Roman in its prime. Sure, we have this empire to thank thermal spas. However, similar inventions spiked as newly formed societies experimented and So, which of these schools of thought is correct? As you can see, these two options surge in innovations or no innovations at all. capture the complex dynamics of technological the most likely scenario is somewhere evolution of technology influenced by the But where do you stand? Do you believe that the had the Roman Empire never fallen? Share your below then check out "What Caused the Roman