- Are they hungry? They definitely look hungry. So if you guys are ready, I'm Coyote Peterson, and I'm about to enter the bite zone with the sea lamprey. Here we go. Okay, it let go. Oh, no, no, it's still it's going for another bite. (tape rolls) (upbeat music) (suspenseful ominous music) The Great Lakes have been invaded, and their fish are facing that threatens to decimate Like aliens in a Hollywood horror film, these slime covered parasitic predators have squirmed their way in, and are on the hunt for blood. My mission is to find out whether or not these invaders and the only way to find out by sea lamprey. To perform this nightmare I have traveled to Millersburg, Michigan where I will be working in conjunction with the Great Lakes Fishery Commission, and US geological surveys jointly managed, Hammond Bay Biological Station. These organizations are in the forefront of Great Lakes research. Control of invasive species and restoration of native fish. The Great Lakes are home to four native and one invasive. And as my luck would have that this invader is also the biggest. Sea lamprey originally from the Atlantic ocean through a series of man-made shipping Taking advantage of these they eventually invaded all Without any predators or sea lamprey numbers exploded. And by the early 1960s, the Taking the yearly Great Lakes of fish to a mere 300,000 pounds of fish. This is a perfect example and invasive species can be. And while it's clear that do they pose a threat to humans? It's a beautiful sunny morning, and it feels like the perfect day for an eaten alive episode here on the &quot;Brave Wilderness&quot; channel. Now before me is a 50 with close to 100 sea lamprey. I know what you guys are all thinking. &quot;Coyote, hold on, hold on a second. Are you telling me you're into this aquarium with these fish that will suction on to you, maybe shred your skin, and then drink your Yeah, guys that's exactly to figure out today. Now what exactly is a sea lamprey? Is it an eel? Is it a fish? Is it an alien? Well, I can tell you this much. They're certainly alien looking, but no they are not aliens. And while their body structure like eels, they're not eels either. They are in fact fish, a primitive species of fish. The lineage of these creatures which means that they were here before the time of dinosaurs, and they survived beyond the dinosaurs. In fact, they've survived How crazy is that? Now what makes them a primitive fish? That's a great question. They're not like other fishes. They don't have any bones in their body, but in fact, their structure They don't have a swim bladder. They don't have any pairs of fins, and they don't even have proper jaws. They're considered parasitic predators. I may say perfectly designed and they're primarily feast upon fish. And the thing that's most unique about these primitive creatures is in fact their mouth structure. So let's crouch down here for a second, and get down beneath the water surface and take a closer look. You'll see the way that they One of the most unique as the sectorial disk. They don't actually have but they have the ability to Glass is a perfect surface. They can also hold onto rocks, but when they're searching for their prey which of course is fish, they're capable of suctioning on, and then let me paint you This is almost like a Hollywood B film. When they suction onto their mouth is malleable, and within that malleable mouth they have close to 150 Those teeth anchor into place, and then right in the is this razor sharp rasping tongue. They rubbed that tongue over the scales, through them into the skin, and eventually into the fish's flesh where they then drink the If you're a fish swimming and you get hooked up to with the lamprey you were alive when they begin to eat you. So you know, gotta have for these primitive creatures. These perfectly designed taken a massive toll on In fact, during the lifetime they can kill up to 40 pounds of fish. For every seven fish only a single one manages to survive. Their top sense is their They don't have really great eyesight. In fact, they're usually but when I place my arms they're definitely gonna of my flesh. That's fair to say that I'm not a fish, but I'm certainly full of Are they hungry? They definitely look hungry. So if you guys are ready, I'm Coyote Peterson, and I'm about to enter the Here we go. One. Two. This is it. Three. Ooh, that water is cold. Oh, oh, oh, one just Oh boy, they are slimy. Now what I'm gonna try and arms in there (screams). Ooh, they're squirming I'm gonna try to keep my arms in here for at least a minute and 30 seconds. Ooh, they're going right towards my arms. Man, this brings some When I did eaten alive by leeches, they swim around my arms, brushing up against them just like this. Eventually found me, suctioned on, and induced the bite. Now they're swimming back and forth. They definitely detect that I'm here. Ooh, that is a very, very eerie feeling. Slimy bodies rubbing up against me. I don't even wanna look down. Right now I'm just thinking lashing out to my arms. Those teeth grappling in, and then that raspy tongue But this far they're really It's interesting because I feel like would definitely Then again, you have that fish are cold blooded, so maybe warm blood is not something that they would necessarily be after. All right, we're gonna up I'm gonna actually push my (tense music) Wow, that's crazy. That is a real strange feeling. All that slime. Oh, wow. Man, I feel like I've got of an alien right now. All slippery and slimy. I'm actually just moving my and they're just swimming There's the opportunity for Come on guys. I'm good. I'm telling you, this is good blood right here. Aren't you interested? This is the Coyote Peterson buffet line. Wow, at this point, my hands have been in here Absolutely no bite. I'm actually grabbing piles of lamprey and coupling them together, and all they're doing is Now, these fish are surrounded When you're out there I know a lot of people that possibly these things will latch on, inflict a suction, bite, and then suck out your insides. Based on putting my I don't think that's gonna happen guys. Unless you are a native you have absolutely nothing to fear, at least in my opinion at this So I've got two theories have not turned me into a buffet line. The first is that these guys have an incredible sense of smell. Remember, they're pretty Coyote Peterson, doesn't My second theory is that upon things that have cold blood. I have warm blood, so maybe it's possible that lamprey aren't interested in having a However, I think to really to the next level, we're gonna need to induce a suction. What I wanna do is take a one to my stomach, and one to my neck. If that doesn't give them the opportunity to feast upon human blood. I don't know what will. Stay tuned, guys. I have a good feeling that is going to be wildly entertaining. (suspenseful music) Now, before we sit down enjoy an all you can eat First, it's important how these alien-like invaders managed to create such a catastrophic stronghold on the Great Lakes ecosystem. These parasitic predators yet well-structured life cycle. During the spawning phase, adults leave the lakes Build crescent, shaped, and then die. After the eggs hatch, the larva drift out of the nest, and find areas of soft They burrow in, and enjoy a hidden life for several years. Once ready the larva complete with suction and voracious appetite. Then they swim to the for 12 to 18 months until Females can lay nearly 100,000 eggs, so it's easy to understand Yet within this simple life structure, there's also a kink in the More on that shortly as it sounds like the dinner bell is ringing. Okay, this is part two of our eaten alive by sea lamprey experiment, and this is what we Now for this% part of the I'm actually gonna bring in the assistance of Dr. Alderboa. He's gonna be the one to actually by placing a sea lamprey of my body; my forearm, my stomach, and dare I say it, my neck. Now to truly determine whether upon the blood of humans. This is the best way to I can become a buffet line. If you're wondering Yeah, this is the part that and my adrenaline pumping. They are gonna suction on. I am going to feel the and they're very well may be some blood. So this point, I think it's time to let the feeding frenzy begin, Dr. Alderboa, pick us out My forearm, my poor forearm is ready. - Sit back and relax, buddy. - (exhales) I almost feel and in a sense, I am. My own blood in the name whether or not these creatures All right, that one jumped right out, that means he is ready. - Okay, I'm ready. what I'm gonna do is place - Stay. Okay, now what's going to happen right on my forearm. You know, good solid piece of meat here. There is blood flow, and that mouth is, oh, there we go, right there. - Ooh! - Oh yeah, aah! Oh wow, wow, that is a powerful suction. The suction power in the is about four times that of What it's doing right now with those jawless lips, and it's called a sectorial disc. He's got a hold there. Now the mouth is rather malleable, and in that mouth are around They use those teeth to lock into place. Now, typically they're feasting upon fish. When they grab onto that fish, remember, a fish is slimy, you've got to get good purchase if you're hoping to hold on, and then eventually which works almost like through the scales and before they get down. Oh wow, that is a crazy feeling. Oh, I can feel it definitely Oh, I'm starting to notice a little bit of pain up at this point. Okay, so as they ripped (groans) and the flesh of the fish, eventually an anticoagulant from their saliva allows and the bodily fluid. Oh wow, I can definitely to town there. Similar to the leeches, I can feel that tongue working and the suction, my goodness, I would than four tons of vacuum cleaner. It is pulling my skin Yowzers! Okay, that is an uncomfortable feeling. Now the difference between the lamprey, and a leech is that the that were kind of in the shape that would slice into your body. Of course, that anticoagulant, and the numbing agent didn't I don't think that that's being involved in (upbeat pulsing music) Yeah, wow, it is really, (screams), it is really, really Ooh, yeah, something's happening. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh! (groans) Wow, that suction is unreal. Oh, whoa! Yup, something's happening? Something is definitely happening. Oh, it's grasping down tighter. Now, what's interesting about the teeth. Ah, okay, it let go, it let go. So I wanna get a good Ah, man, that just makes and when that thing pops off, it's like a really strong suction cup just (slurps) coming off of my arm. Look at the way that the and suctioned on. You can see where those jawless And right there is where all You can see the purple and honestly, just a through right at that spot. Now with my forearm, I have to think that that There's a lot of muscle There's not necessarily, A fish's body has organs in soft spots, and those lamprey are really on an area that they can easily dig into. My forearm, not exactly to dig in. I felt the effects, but I think it's time to and let one of these lamprey All right, Mario, are you ready? I'm going to lift up my shirt, and expose a nice soft section of flesh. Very soft, good squishy area - You ready for one? to be able to grab on and create suction. - Okay, let's let him find his target. He's trying to suction onto me. (Coyote screams) Oh, man. - He's gonna run through glove. Oh, okay. - Let him twist his head. - [Alderboa] He's good. - I think he's (screams). Yeah, that's pretty good. (groans) - He's on. That is definitely (groans) a much different feeling than the forearm. Now the skin of my belly is much softer, and that suction is (groans) going to go into town right now. I feel all those teeth Oh, the twist is tough. Now when these creatures (screams) look at that, he came off! (tense music) Ooh, that's good suction right there. Oh, wow, yeah. I could definitely and it almost feels like to rasp around. Whoa, that makes your skin crawl. Ah, okay. Probably approaching the 62nd Mark here with this creeper. True creepy slime monster Okay, just embrace it. Now it's not so much painful a real strong suction, and just that really is this thing actually? Oh, oh, ooh, let go. He's back out there. picked a different spot. (groans) Oh, yeah, that's an I think you repositioned and said, &quot;Oh, you know what? This spot's even softer. And maybe even tastier,&quot; Real question is will it begin and actually try to eat me? Remember it's not going after my organs. It's not trying to burrow inside me. What they do is remove the skin, and the flesh of the fish, so that they can get down to the blood and the bodily fluids. Okay, let go. (groans) - That's a lot of blood there. - Okay. As I told you guys, there may be blood, there you have it. That is a pretty good suction, tongue rasping away, almost like a razor sharp cheese grater. And you could see the battle wound there. Little bit of blood, not too bad. It actually feels good to actually have the fish off of my skin at this point, ouch! I think what I learned from that bike is that it ultimately into its mouth that This isn't something that But because they have the I think we need to go and ultimate suction. And we all know that which means that our next lamprey is going to take a good chomp right out of my neck. Lots of blood flow right there, really soft skin. (exhales) I know you guys wanna see what's gonna happen. I think I'm ready. Dr. Alderboa find us an The buffet line just became an Let's place one on my neck. (suspenseful music) This is not easy. Not easy to let these Pick me a real good solid - All right, I got a good one. - Oh, he looks hungry. - Okay, right up here. (suspenseful music) (Coyote screams) There you go. Hang on to it. - Okay, I got it. - Oh my gosh. Yeah, that is a good, Oh, it let go. It's looking for another spot. (groans) Oh, that is way more painful than the arm or the stomach. Ooh! (groans) Okay. - Yeah, he's (groans) I can feel that twisting sensation. Teeth grappling into place. Man, I feel like that's of blood right there. Oh, the vampire fish, it is truly living up to (groans) I'm gonna try to let it suction (groans) Ooh wow, every time it twists, it's incredibly painful. Those little sharp goes to 150 teeth in that mouth, remember. Oh yeah, no, I can feel up against my skin. Oh, that makes my whole body squirm. Oh, that's incredible. (groans) - You're doing good. - How am I doing? - Oh, okay, it let go. Oh, no, no, it's still It went for another bite. Oh, yeah, he's got me good. You can feel it every bit into the skin. Oh wow. Yep, now the tongue is It is trying to figure out, &quot;Is this something that I can.&quot; Oh my goodness. (groans) That is about the most in quite some time. (groans) It's really latched on. Oh! (Coyote groans) - Let it go. - No, no, don't tag on it. (groans) - You want him off? - Just let him remain there, I wanna make sure we get They don't call these things vampire fish for nothing, folks. Oh, here we go. - That's a good one. Let go, hey, don't get on me. - Is there blood? - Now I promise you, guys, there will be some blood. A lot of blood flows through your neck, and that sea lamprey was My goodness, oh man, it just to think about my blood and bodily fluids being (suspenseful music) Okay, so here's what I was able those teeth are sharp, and that raspy tongue, yeah, at your skin. But in the end I feel like to the surface and they in their mouth, they let go and said, &quot;You know what? This isn't a fish. This isn't what I naturally feast upon.&quot; So if you head out into the Great Lakes for a swim I would definitely of being suctioned to, let alone being eaten Now, if you're a fish in the lakes, this is without question So the ongoing control of sea lamprey in check Without this work being done the lamprey will be decimating But again, like I said you're heading out into the lake for swim, you have absolutely nothing to fear. I'm Coyote Peterson. Be brave. Stay wild. We'll see on the next adventure - I've got a few more in here that probably could use a feed. - [Coyote] I'm probably good. - Camera guy? - [Cameraman] Yeah, go - You want one? - [Coyote] Around the world, invasive species have detrimental but no species has been more destructive to Great Lakes fish than sea lamprey. The fishery in these bodies of water was nearly destroyed. Yet the ongoing effort led by the Great Lakes Fishery of the most successful programs So while millions upon millions the lifecycle has been identified, and most importantly, intercepted. Thanks to the combination of environmentally safe lampricides, strategic river barriers, mass trappings, and pheromone, and alarm that may alter the course of spawning. The invasive sea lamprey reduced nearly 90% in the Great Lakes. Now that is a success story. Sea lamprey control is an investment into the health of the environment. If you would like to learn more, or have the desire to join contact the Great Lakes and help keep our fresh water systems free of blood sucking aliens. Hey, Coyote pack, if you think being eaten stay tuned as I set the dinner table for a tank full of piranha. And if you can't wait, join memberships right now, and be the first to see what happens. Oh boy. (animal roars)