Malenaadu The sight of Western Ghats is We feel proud that Western Ghats the eight places of bio diversity At the same time, it is our Western Ghats which is one the maximum number of protests Our Ghats range boasts of Among these, the Sharavathi river giving the power to the State. As the people affected by the were not provided they built their homes on the But, after few years, under Forest Encroachment Act 192 A the afflicted people were Now there is no water available for more belonging to the people afflicted Though the mega plan of linking and was promising, there are instances of Another such plan being proposed is, to pump Sharavathi water from and send it to Bengaluru at an estimated cost of 12000 crores. Hundreds of villages got submerged due of connecting 8 to 9 reservoirs including to Sharavathi river flowing hardly for It also resulted in formation There has been an increase in the and there is no doubt of the nature Entha Savoo Maaraya Idhu Entha Savoo Maaraya Entha Savoo Maaraya Hey Ramanna, how come you are I have to visit Narayan Bhat's house, What are you reading and You know what is written in this? It says that we should not let our Because it is said that the remove the top soil and affect So, the animals of the forest The deer end up dieing and in turn tigers die of hunger The influx of all the cattle to the forest It is written in this that we should Oh! just like as we have they expect us to have farms for the Then who will get them the fodder? Ramanna, I agree that animals but then what do we do with Whatever you say Ramanna, whichever be the government, There is nothing good happening Whatever it is, I am fed So, I want to consult What sort of consultation? [bus arriving] Bojanna, the bus came, Ok, let's meet in the evening, [bus leaving] Look, it will only be disaster Be it Sharavathi project or the inherent it will be as if they themselves create Moreover, there is scarcity of drinking and this being so that too changing the path of the river and if such a project worth which may imbalance and besides the project affecting does it not affect the fishermen and people living on the river banks It is not just those people, And we will witness change Yes, it will affect the forest wealth I will give you a simple example, the daily food required and that of a wild buffalo But with implementation of such projects, This has resulted in the wild animals and has created conflicts between Until such unscientific projects and animals &amp; birds are shelved, we will continue our protest Hey, Sir is coming. Sir... sir... sir... the Western Ghats associations are and are firm on continuing Look, the government has taken all These projects have been planned no one can stop this. This is ridiculous! This has been your daily affair, What's wrong with you? You are nothing less than a frog. Hm, yes he is. These people won't listen. Come fast guys, Maaraya, regarding the No, no, Thinking of it, it is scaring. Oh, Daakanna has come Don't tell him that I am here We shall talk after he delivers Oh Daakanna, It has been a long time Shettre, take the milk. I heard that you What to do Daakanna? I am fed up that they have made And the monkeys have whom should I tell all this? Should I keep the plantation So I decided to sell it off to Narayan Bhat Whatever you say Daakanna, [cellphone ringing] My granddaughter is on phone. Is it? Ok then Daakanna, Ok. Hello, tell me dear. Whatever it is, Tell me what it is all of a sudden I lost Another time I felt like When I get up and stand still, When I see little later, all the vessels in the Later I realized, that I am friend with having smelt the liquor, they were all I came to my senses and shoved I bowed to Panjurli and Chowdi When our Unugol Papanna I learnt it was tremor of You stupid! With the kick due to drinks, Boja is known for such stories only. Yes dear, you come home safely, Get lost, I told you the Oh, Daakanna, you're just the person I wanted to see. Have you experienced With the construction of many dams and do you expect the Earth to You and your question! I have work in the plantation, Ok... ok Daakanna is also right. Let's go, I am in a hurry. Oh, Papanna, wait Why is this person coming here? You would be happy with Unugol Oh! this guy. I had it. Drop me till Anganawadi. Hell with you, come and sit! This person always bothers me. Oh Mr. Hegde, are you doing well? right! right! Hey sit inside Hey Papanna, drive carefully. You will get beaten by me today. Hey Papanna What you have written at the back, What? Unugol Papanna? What is the story that His is a big story. Bojanna, Let me narrate to him, you keep quiet. A new teacher by name Savita Papanna used to go near house daily, would park his auto there Will you shut up or Let me complete, wait! Having got fed up with his acts, I should not have Since then his name got changed from It's nice I will throw you out now. Go to hell! Hey Papanna, stop over there. Stop here Mr. Hegde, What is the fare Papanna? Take 35 rupees. I will take leave. Bojanna, what you did is not right. What happened Papanna? I will not let you board my auto. Unugol Papanna, (Kannada rhymes being taught to children) Stop! stop! My trip is over. Papanna, good morning. You are a ghost stuck to my back. You have to sing it ten times, Shall we sing it again? (Kannada rhymes being taught to children) She will look at me. How can she not look at me? (Kannada rhymes being taught to children) (Humming a Kannada song) You idiot! have you gone crazy? Madam, I beg you, If you do it again, I will take the hell out of you. Ok, ok madam get lost from here! Get lost! I wonder who taught you to talk? Very horrid, man It was Savita then and now it is Sunita! What a shameful life you lead? I am ashamed to call you my brother Shame on you You know what? It's me who wrote You wrote? Hey, you come home, I will break your back. (Kannada rhymes being taught to children) Hey, women Oh god Get me some coffee. Oh, are you back? Our child had called me, she said she will come It has been a while When she is here this time, Hey... are you crazy? She is returning home don't keep pressuring her. Prepare something special for her to eat. [monkeys chattering] These monkeys are ruining the plantation. Even the monkeys from the city (Chasing out monkeys) Oh God, he never listens to me In the Tretayuga, it is said that Lord Rama and Sita During that time, when Sita was thirsty, Lord Rama shot an arrow In Sanskrit, arrow is called &quot;Ambu,&quot; and as water emerged by the arrow, as the emergence of water was due this river got the name, Sharavati. To conceal the river's origin, Lord Rama established which both Rama and Sita Sharavati river, originating at flows through the valley, dives down as the and eventually meets the Super, This information and the history of Ambu Teertha Here, take this money. We are proud that you came all the way We are proud of our place, sir. You are also handsome Oh! you are quite horrid! Shall I take leave? Someone was praising Is that so, Ganesha? Hey, why are you twisting like that? Should I address you as Nandini? Hey Ganesha, how do you Hey, enough, shut up. Come on, everyone drenched in rain can't This guy is a hero! Why do you meddle in my affairs? Come on, let's clean up that place quickly. So, Friends In the next few years, the population of Before we face the hardships it is crucial to find a solution. Ensuring a continuous flow of water In order to achieve this, the government has already made the DPR of this project should be made So, Mr. Sudheer you are the DPR Engineer Thank you, Sir. Prepare the DPR as soon as possible. Sure sir, thank you. Thank you, thank you! Thank you [Auto arriving] Till you leave for Bengaluru, Do you think so? Avva, how are you? At last you came. Finished with your Pooja? Daakanna, are you happy? Have couple of Kadubu and go. Oh, Ajjaya, You could have had coffee at least Is the harvesting of Areca over? Why have you gone down so much? Hey, do you want me to She has just come, take her inside you cook with whatever you like, Hey Papanna! Put back those unugol (wooden barriers), Ok. [auto leaving] Bad time has struck Malegadde! I can see a path of fire. Things are turning out bad. Be careful! Hey Daakanna, God man's Nothing will happen. Is this the first time we are Where are you these days? Oh, you are there? How is the work? No, he is leaving tonight. He wants to take me to Bengaluru He wants me to go with him leaving What are you talking about? Yes, Daakanna. Nobody is coming forward to offer a girl for marriage here. We keep getting displaced from town I've had enough of this I will go to Bengaluru and Young man, How can you compare a mother's lap How long can one live Take your own example, what have you Shut up your mouth! Hey, what are you talking about? Yes, young people like you but we are elderly people Tell me, who will listen Leave that. Is the city the same as before? Are you truly happy there? He is stubborn! what is he talking? I wonder if Gopal's brother's son will Dear, you have studied and settled, You crazy lady, Can't you eat without constantly Dear, her mind is Don't worry about it. don't we desire to see her don't we have the desire to see her Keep quiet! As a male, Hey Avva, Our home should first see the light of day, We can discuss marriage later on. I would stay here prepare ATIRASA, PATRODE (snacks), Isn't it Ajjaiah? Yes dear. Hey Gowdthi, she is my granddaughter! Sharavathi is our only source of water, Do these idiots want to kill us? They are trying to target us for Daakanna, our lands are if it continues like this, Hm Daakanna, it looks like we will If a dog is pampered, Whatever happens, Daakanna, some officers have come Oh, they have come Hey God Man, (News that Sharavathi water to be Hegdru! Massive Protest! all of you come I will bring Ramanna Massive Protest! Hey Sunitha, some government officials ask everyone to gather. Sharavathi, someone is doing What? What a foolish decision Listen to me. If I decide to step in, Do you understand? Hey, what are you up to? Hey, leave them. Hey, move aside! Hey, who are Idiots! Hey, Sharavathi, Dear, You know what, Sharavathi. Such a huge project worth Handling this has been a By the way, We will get married once Are you happy? According to you, is bringing water from a distance Yeah. In the stretch of 400 kilometers, Don't you think the biodiversity Isn't it a waste of taxpayers' money Do you or your officers not have any their lives, and their situation? Come on Sharavathi! We are utilizing nature to and nature inherently possesses Civilization has emerged and the utilization Look, Civilization means development. I oppose this, Sudheer. You are appearing I had already expressed my opposition If our lands and water are at risk, Sharavathi, none of you will be This is a government project, in the form of money and land. You have to educate them. Hey, do you think we are How long do you intend We are not here to oppress you There is no need to shout. Your cooperation is Hey, stop your speech. What sort of development First, try to understand the history Me, my father and mother, were leading a decent life But, on that day, Hey, Look, a dam is being constructed here, You and all the villagers Why should we go? Wait Hey, listen to what I'm saying. It is a government order, They threatened and forcibly evicted us In a silent highway, The sparrow's wings were burnt It is its fate that Where else it can fly in the O Bhutaraya (God), O Panjurli, O Chowdi, Entha Saavo Maaraya O Bhutaraya, O Panjurli, O Chowdi, Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Entha Saavo Maaraya We have provided food, we have provided water, We have provided food, we have provided water, We hail from Malenaadu, We hail from Malenaadu, Entha Saavo Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Entha Saavo Maaraya With myriad paths leading to a town unknown, Our footsteps do not belong to us, The illuminating lamp has The illuminating lamp has O Bhutaraya, O Panjurli, O Chowdi, Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Entha Saavo Maaraya All of us were crammed into a truck Time passed by. Many years have passed by. During that time, my son got married I found a friend in Bojanna. He also has a son. When life was contented, a wildfire occurred. Hey! come here. Hey, look, this land is which means it belongs All of you must leave this place. What are you saying? One person tells us to go here, and another Yes, true We are not moving from here, Hey, look, this area is an No one is allowed to stay here. If you do not vacate this place by tomorrow, No, we are not leaving. When I say you have to vacate, Hey Son, When it became inevitable for us some individuals approached us from the forest, But that night, the police killed my son, If you are sticking to your adamant stand, If you want to survive &amp; live your life, No! no! don't do anything to us, Daakanna, Oh god! Then they threatened us and Bojanna turned to drinking, We are still alive, fearing that our granddaughter We ended up in Malegadde Your projects have swallowed up Enthaa Kathe Maaraaya Now, you are asking us to Hey, young man Whatever happens, we will not because what you are but our Sharavathi. It's true that tragedy has but I have nothing to do with that. It is my responsibility to provide you with Beyond your determination I hold the responsibility The city of Bengaluru needs it. I am taking Sharavathi I know the history of this place, Do you think I would allow None of you need to fear. Come, Ajjaiah. Do you know I am friend of God Man. Let me see how you take Come Bojanna, These people are terrible. Where they come from and Yes, true, Sunitha sister that they are installing pipelines which will lead to the displacement of people, Is it? What a tragic end it is, Will they raze the forest? Hm... Shankar, Yes sir, I will look into it Sir, the tire has been punctured. A nail in the forest? Sir, it looks like Get the tyre fixed fast. I will be at the site. get it fixed fast. Sir, be careful, Get the tyre fixed fast I will wait here, you get the tyre fixed Hey, who is that? Even I don't know, Amma, Please hold on. What seems to be the problem? All I asked is some water to drink? Oh brother, don't you know we don't have Even when we get bountiful of rain, We carry water from Malegadde if this water also dries up, Have some water. Hm... ok Hey guys, can you help me Hey, Listen Hey, stop for a while Can I come along with you? do you think it's shuttle bus huh? Look at the condition of the road, You raised some legal point Don't you practice you shouldn't throw the plastic bottle Walk up to the road. He said it right. We can now call Of course, yes Sir, what is it sir? Sir, what is it? Don't be scared Look who is it. Sir, could it be a ghost? Hey, what is it? Hey, you bloody human! you are going to face You will be on fire whether I am Panjurli, I am Chowdi Get away from here! Vacate this place, He is that drunkard! Hey! Hey, it's me Boja! Hey, please stop! Stop it... stop it What have you done to yourself? I will be forced to send you to jail. You just keep quiet If you obstruct our work again, Ok sir, Ok Three people have burnt my back - Hey, you drunkard! don't dare to create problem again. Just leave from here, Keep track of this guy. Come, let's go You guys leave from here Hey, apply gently They have burnt my back Very sad. Boja, you will be alright, Hey, do it gently. Give me 2 KG of rice and 1 KG of sugar. Don't you have any sense? They have such Don't give food or water to that let them realize. Gopala, call for a Grama Panchayat meet Sharavathi has gone to DC's office Let's see what they do. I have come across many such people. Hey, give it back. Hey, what happened? If you are still here, we may have kill you. What sort of people you are? Get lost, don't come again. Look at the way he is staring at us. Hey, what else he could do than staring Now dare to touch Boja if you can! I have a mobile phone with me. To speak to my grand parents, However, we do not have and there is My grandfather has to travel 2 km to the city and he has to charge The people in the surrounding villages and as project planners, I dont know all about that. My job is to take It's not just the DC's office; even if you approach Vidhana Soudha, Everyone here desires development. Everybody wants development. Should rivers like Sharavathi for the development of cities I fail to understand one thing. What if Sharavathi depletes? And when that river runs dry, Rubbish It seems that only the thirst of engineers, Will you stop this? Sir, we ran into a problem. What is it? After yesterday's incident, Daakanna has instructed Get it from the neighbouring city. Sir, due to the release of dam water, whatever the situation might be I will drink the water from the river. Sir, the water is not drinkable, Hey yougman, Sharavathi will not come she will stay with those Sir... sir... I should have Due to the ongoing recession, the situation is not conducive I am unable to take any decision! Hey, you don't break your head, it wouldn't be wise for you to Look for a job here itself. We are with you. Take it... come on, take it. Sudheer sir is unwell. he is extremely fatigued. Give him some medicine. Can't you hear me? This is not the time to seek What? Do you expect me to save a just shut up and go! Very sad, you don't seem Don't try to preach me, What are you looking at? Sorry, sir. No one in this village is Tell me, children. Sir, we don't know how much money or but it will ruin our lives, sir. But if you listen to us, We are proud of our village. We don't like to leave Why don't you try to convince the government Will they not listen to you? Look, children, it's my responsibility Listen to me Come on guys, it would be wrong to give them Hey children, Papanna, why has your What are these kids doing here? When we have brought light to our land, why should we bring darkness into your life? Hey Devendra, give him the medicine Take this Man can be his own worst enemy. But should not be Sharavathi, Please have some food. Just take a moment to think. As farmers, if we refuse to or insist that they come do you know Can we afford to have development is that a development? I am grateful to you for the food Daakanna, do you have Many victories in the Ramayana through sacrifices Yet, we still worship Rama Sacrifices are often part of Our two other teams along with the police force. Starting tomorrow, None of you will face any problems. Hey, you ******* We are not very affluent people, What the hell has You disgusting idiots! No point in talking All of you go to hell! Sudheer An insect circling a lamp laughed &quot;I am faster than you. I have wings However, the insect is unaware that the because it was just an insect Let's go Ajjaiah, there is no point To hell with you and your projects You will get the police? Get them Sir, today's report. The water gets pumped from here. Cover the working site Okay, sir. Mark all the places. Get help from police if you face any problem Give it over there (Placard reading &quot;We will give blood, Hey, what are you doing here? Enough, stop it! Don't you have a lady police officer? Oh, Sun and Moon, Else you will also face death. When the storm has sown seeds Even the soothing tone What a death of the taste buds What a death of the pride What a death of the What a death of tiger Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Maaraya Entha Saavo Maaraya The flowing river It's the truth authored You build fence to the Earth and Entha Saavo Maaraya Namaskara, Sir. I had deserted my village and I am feeling proud on seeing you all, Look, Adarsh, as long we risk losing our very existence. We need to first retain our ideals, Hm? Adarsh, this is the time to think what we have Our future gets decided by the villages Chethan, I think your services are required You go with them right away, Hm? All the best, take care AT THE BOTTOM OF THE LAMP! Hey, what is it? Well done! Extensive support! What is the use of all this? You have become a youth icon But I will personally carry my first phase report As you are, as you are carrying out strong protest, The basic work will All the best. When you have stepped on what is the use of elixir Are you warming up What a death of the taste buds What a death of the pride What a death of the What a death of tiger Entha Kathe Maaraya Nind entha Kathe Maaraya Entha Kathe Maaraya Nind entha Kathe Maaraya Hey, where is Sudheer, call him! Bring him fast What is this? To quench the thirst of Bengaluru, Are you mad? Don't you know and what you are doing is different, Sir, I have to tell you certain things Tell me what you want to say The area of Bengaluru city comprises The population of Bengaluru which increased It has now surpassed 1.3 crores, representing 20 percent of Shouldn't we consider During 1961, there were However, the number has Approximately 184 acres of lake area The Sharavathi water is barely leaving many surrounding How can we source the additional power Won't this plunge more Another important point to consider is that Bengaluru has been But what happened to the rainwater? The city receives 140 crore liters of However, 25 to 30 percent of water is By addressing this wastage, we can potentially In addition to the current initiative if we implement rainwater harvesting similar to what we are doing with Sharavathi, I used to believe that civilization but my experience with Sharavathi has Heh... Sudheer, your speeches but the challenges and realities Think about it again Sir, I support Sharavathi. Hello Shankar, ask Prashant this guy thinks As the initial DPR for bringing the protest in Malegadde The protestors have blocked the officers, The police have taken precautions and are making efforts Hey, Adarsha. Officers investing in the Western Ghats you have already imposed However, we are initiating a new project &quot;Save Greens to Breathe.&quot; Any hindrance or accidents encountered We have decided to lead children, let's plant trees Look here. In an unprecedented move, has joined forces with the protestors in The protestors have continued their strong resistance, They have ignored the media and persistently Chetan, by planting an areca plant, Sir, people here are opposing Prashant, give them time till tomorrow, Work has to start in the next 2 days, Ok sir Students of schools and colleges, ... environmentalists have also Please, stop thinking of Once the Government decides on Sharavathi is the river Government has planned this project Do not obstruct Your intention to hinder this project Recall all your By the way, what is the damage Hm... sir... By sitting here and planning projects, As narrated in the book the consequences of planting acacia plants Around 30 varieties of leading to landslides, The Sharavathi project, whether if approved and implemented, will result in the destruction of forests Which of your projects We have been facing The government has You think of Western Ghats only when Due to the obstruction of the natural the sea waves are now reaching back affecting the land's fertility Today, we are witnessing the and the water levels in the riverfront This has led to the extinction of various fish species which directly affects the livelihoods If this Sharavathi project is implemented, Therefore, we are determined to prevent Daakanna, what is your plan? The preparation of the Detailed Project Report (DPR) the Government will respond to your concerns, I aged witnessing your projects. Now, you want water? That too... Let me tell you something: the Linganamakki dam has reached its full and only three times We have lost our homes and lands, yet we don't have because there isn't enough And yet, you still expect us Your project is worth crores of rupees, Give that to me, dear. Look here, there is news You must have heard about Israel They have developed a method to You people never think of such projects! Really great! Hm... Very true You people in the city let the rainwater flow and now you want Sharavathi? Listen, gentlemen, Do you know the number of companies The old man might seem to be babbling, We are also proud of Bengaluru, and there are many people working there, However, what we are saying is that if there is ample water available it would be beneficial to redirect some of This will not only help provide but also contribute What the old man said is right. If we can find employment opportunities in our You will not do that You have destroyed forests, which has negatively impacted As a result, regions like Malenaadu Moreover, you have bulldozed hills leading to disastrous consequences such All these actions, carried out under have disrupted our lives. However, this time, we will not We will neither let the water flow, Dakanna once said, &quot;Sharavathi will Sir! sir! I have submitted it to my seniors Sir, one more thing, you have worked as but why did the Government appoint then what happens to your DPR? The purpose of my visit here But, I started realizing the problem, My conscience didn't permit me to I wanted people of this place to I ignited the spark in them and That spark is here now! Sharavathi... it's ours, Hey, stop it. This is Government project Any one obstructing us will be put in jail Wait... you guys don't seem to budge Listen to our decision too If at all you are taking ... take her along with our blood We are just getting a Breaking News on The &quot;Save Sharavathi&quot; protest had Protestors have tried to commit suicide Are you threatening? You idiots, I will be forced to put you in jail Are you threatening us? Go ahead Hey, come and hold them You want to put us in jail? Bojanna, what have you done to yourself? Why did you do this? Now you are watching live from Malegadde In the ongoing &quot;Save Sharavathi&quot; protest ... than part with Sharavathi A person named Bojanna, by inflicting wound Bojanna, come this side Sharavathi, Daakanna, Don't be in a haste People living on this soil are Have you thought of your next generation? Daakanna, Sharavathi, don't be in haste Yes Daakanna, you are the reason Don't take such decisions Don't let Sharavathi's efforts go in vain, Daakanna, please understand Sharavathi, please try to understand Looking at the Malegadde protest, Hello sir Some times you will have to use Leave from there before anything Hm sir What &quot;Hm sir&quot;, leave that place right away Look, nothing untoward should happen here, Don't let any untoward incident Take off those sickles and listen to me Sir... We are leaving from here I should not have sold my plantation Hey, every thing went well, Ok? Whatever good happens!? Sir... ... I am not saying one should not We all need water But, we should discuss scientifically... ... and take a decision which is Our protest is just for that Sorry Sir, look here, the water comes down Even the Western Ghats sends us the water I take of leave of you This story is not the story of only More than the issues like hunger, ... community clash, being faced by the Because, by the year 2030, 40 percent ... will face shortage of Western Ghats plays a vital role Water is no one's asset and Water is nature's gift Ground water gets reinforced Only when we utilize water in a ... we can strike a balance between us ... besides finding solutions to Hey Boja... ... at least from now on give up drinking To hell with it... yes, I am giving up Hey Papanna, take him to the hospital Come The sickle was blunt and I did not At least from now on stop drinking Come Papanna Get in Hey Papanna... I will close the gate while going Unugol Papanna, come You are a headache Finally, things ended well... I will drink a little to celebrate What a story dude Hm... you won't give up drinking Why are you not dying!?