- [Petter] What could cause a fully-functional Airbus 321 to roll over so hard during the takeoff roll that That, and what happened after, in today's video, so stay tuned. - [Radio Altimeter] 100, 50, 40, 30, 20, 10. The story of American Airlines Flight 300 And from a pilot's perspective, that's what makes The accident took place on the 10th of April, 2019 for the involved crew. The day before, the crew from Los Angeles International Airport over towards JFK in New York and they landed After that, the crew had gone to their hotels, worked out a little bit and started getting ready which is gonna take place in the evening. Both of the pilots involved reported their shuttle bus out towards the airport again and they got a light snack in the terminal prior to the flight. Both of the pilots who The captain was 58 years old. He had a little less than 20,000 hours in total the large majority of which had been flown that they were gonna fly this day. He was assisted by a 58-year-old first officer and about 2,000 hours on the Airbus 321. These pilots had flown together before When they met up for their they started by greeting and then they started going through flight plans and weather. When it came to the weather, It was nice en-route weather, and alternate was also good where there was just a little bit of crosswind expected This was great news for the pilots to a nice and easy return flight back to Los Angeles. So they proceeded by checking the fuel needed, onto their dispatcher to get the fueling started and then they proceeded to brief and all of them went together The captain was gonna be pilot flying for this flight so he did a partial walk-around before and the first officer proceeded to do When he got into the cockpit, the technical status of the aircraft, And as he was flicking through the technical log, The technical status of the aircraft was fine: While he was doing that, the cabin crew finalized their safety inspection of the cabin that was booked on this When the first officer came back the captain started briefing him the departure routing and also They proceeded to complete in the cockpit and then they completed The takeoff weight of the aircraft together with the wind, temperature, they calculated that they could use which is, basically, when the engine thrust is derated as in it's reduced down for the departure and this is On the Boeing fleet, we call it and we do this in order to reduce and the maintenance of the engines. They also calculated their V speeds for departure and their rotation speed was gonna be 156 knots. The last weather that the pilot received was coming from 330 at 15 knots from a direction of 340 degrees at 26 knots. So this would definitely mean a bit of crosswind but didn't really see as a big threat of both them and the aircraft. Now before we go any further, a little bit about how we pilots A big disclaimer here is that I am not type-rated and it turns out that the way So first let's discuss a little bit When we fly, we always try to both land And the reason for that is because, the indicated airspeed that we need to keep the aircraft flying at And with a lower ground speed, we will need both less But, of course, the wind very rarely blows to come from a slight angle and since it means that we pilots have to be able as we're taking off as well. Now if we use, as an example, the situation they were planning to take off That runway has a magnetic heading of 315 degrees, but the worst wind that they were expecting Now if that would be the case, of about 23 knots which is great If that wind would turn more clockwise, as into the right, it would mean would become bigger and the headwind component would become smaller, that they were to be expecting 26 knots, and that was still less that they were allowed to take which was 35 knots. Now when it comes to the handling of this aircraft, which means that the wind And if you look at the aircraft, you'll find that, which is huge and it's shaped almost like a sail. This vertical stabilizer is gonna take up a lot of wind and as it does so, it will push making the front of the which is something called weather cocking. Obviously, this is not something We want to make sure that the aircraft continues So this means that if we have right crosswind, with a little bit of left rudder to make sure Now this weather cocking effect but it's mostly pronounced in the very beginning But, of course, when the speed of the aircraft flowing over the rudder, which means so the rudder in itself will not be able And this is why the rudder pedals to the rudder and is controlling the rudder So at very low speeds when we're taking off to turn towards the right, in this case, the nose wheel a little bit. Now as the speed starts building up, the rudder will become more eventually it will take over the steering completely. But this also means that as we are doing we tend to put a little bit of forward pressure on the yoke or the side stick that there's a little bit of pressure So this is why you'll see pilots in the beginning especially during crosswind takeoffs to maybe around 80 knots or 100 knots, they will gradually start reducing On smaller aircraft, you also have to put aileron that a sudden gust of crosswind might create. But on larger aircraft like the Boeing 737 and the Airbus 321, you have because if you put too much aileron into the wind, that might actually cause spoilers to start coming up on the wings and that will cause drag And because of that, in the Boeing, And on the Airbus, you don't put However, when you get to the rotation phase, to counteract any rolling tendencies that you have and that will put you in a condition where you're now sitting with left rudder of right aileron and this cross controls and that reduces your tail strike margin And because of that, you have to be very careful. Rotate nice and slowly to make sure And this can actually be quite tricky. It takes a while to learn this. And that's also why new pilots tend maybe about 20 knots even though On this flight though, the crosswind component giving ample margin up to and it is unlikely that these two even a threat at all. Once the cockpit preparation was all completed, the first officer asked for push back They received that and they started During the pushback procedure, about some new procedures These procedures were implemented between the Boeing and the Airbus fleet. And the first officer was pointing out that, until later on in the flow from Once the engines were started, the crew requested and received taxi clearance out to holding point kilo echo for Runway 31 Left. And because there was quite little traffic was really, really quick, there was no sense of time pressure or any stress. All of the procedures were handled according At time 20:38, American Airlines Flight 300, When the captain started to maneuver the aircraft through his window and said that it looks and coming from a slightly higher angle This would indicate that the crosswind than what they had calculated they both recognized that So up until this point, everything but that's about to change after this short message from my sponsor. If you're passionate about science, is definitely something for you. With a streaming budget of an incredible by the founder of the Discovery Channel, of award-winning documentaries by expert hosts such as David Attenborough and Stephen Hawking. It's available worldwide on Right now, I'm hooked on a documentary series called A World Without NASA which highlights NASA's influence on our daily life. I highly recommend it; it's amazing. For the high quality video content that you get, Curiosity Stream is well worth it But for you guys, who are following on the link here below, which means that you will only pay So after the video or right now, which should be curiositystream.com/mentourpilot and a few numbers to it, Thank you Curiosity Stream. At time 20:39:48, American Airlines Flight 300 The surface wind was given as 010 degrees of about 14 knots. The captain started adding thrust symmetrically into the flex detent. The aircraft started accelerating down indicates that the captain, early on, indicating that it probably wasn't perfectly lined up with the centerline but needed to get back onto it. As the acceleration continued, to counteract the cross-stream from the right as we were discussing before. And he later stated that it felt like he had The flight data recorder showed of rudder input. The first officer calls out, &quot;80 knots.&quot; The captain responds with, &quot;Check.&quot; And at this point, everything looks normal. There are no ECAM messages and no warning flags. At time 20:40:30, the first officer calls out V1 And here is where things because now the flight data recorder goes from about eight degrees up to 24 degrees, which is nearly max, within a period So that means that it's a gradual This left rudder input causes the aircraft of 315 degrees which is the runway track which is a hard turn to the left. The lateral acceleration changes a fairly severe sideward movement. The captain who doesn't realize what is causing and sees the edge of the runway He realizes that he needs otherwise they will run over the edge of the runway and into the marshlands beyond, As he does so, the nose wheel comes off the ground that causes the right wing than the left wing, increasing the lift a rapid roll towards the left. Now the fly-by-wire system in the Airbus any roll that is created by a yaw the computers that are supposed and the roll rate just keeps increasing. This means that, at this point, and rolling rapidly towards the left to see what's going on, realizes this, He does this at the same time as the captain And this, the fact that both of the pilots are now inputting on the side sticks at the same time induces a: - Warning in the cockpit. The captain now calls, out &quot;I can't control it!&quot; And that just prompts the first officer Now when two pilots are inputting on the side stick the computer is supposed to average out are putting full right aileron in, The first officer feels that they're still rolling hard and they're still not airborne. The right main gear and the nose gear is in the air At time 20:40:36, the maximum roll rate that a sound indicating some kind of impact This is, however, not noticed by any of the pilots. From this point onwards, the input of right rudder and the roll is gradually starting to reduce. The aircraft is now pitching up 20.4 degrees And now the aircraft finally takes off. As soon as that happened, the first officer calls out, Indicating that he's not inputting The captain's control input now starts oscillating between right and left and his The first officer calls out, But from this point, the aircraft As the aircraft is now slowly starting &quot;What the hell is going on?&quot; And the first officer responds, &quot;I don't know! Indicating that he thought that maybe because an engine failure would have but all the engines are operating as they should. The captain continues with, But from this point, they're now starting The captain asks for the gear to be retracted to their cleared standard instruments departure. As they're now climbing out, the autopilot because he still thinks of flight control malfunction He wants to make sure that the aircraft During the climb-out, the pilots continue in a very dense and upset conversation that it was like a weird electron This was likely a reference to the Qantas 72 incident an incident where a flight computer caused the aircraft to suddenly drop The aircraft continues to climb what they have just experienced. Instead they received several frequency changes and as they're climbing out, completing their after-take-off checklist and so on, they keep discussing this and how these two pilots were both pretty convinced that they were about to crash this aircraft had previously experienced in their careers. At time 20:43, the captain makes a statement in any kind of crosswind, possibly indicating and in his own crosswind capabilities. Anyway, as they're climbing out, on the cockpit voice recorder that maybe we should think about returning back to JFK. He makes very subtle hints about this, about covering his own ass when it comes to this, maybe he should contact engineering some kind of cloud cover to come back none of the pilots knows The aircraft is flying perfectly: and there's no indication that anything really is wrong. At time 20:45:52, a cabin crew member This is about five minutes after the incident, that the pilots must be out of they might be in and there is time to let them know This indicates great training because they've waited just long enough in order to let the pilots do but not so long that the aircraft can climb up too high in case whatever it was that they noticed which could mean structural issues with the aircraft and potential problems if the The captain answers the call and the cabin crew asks, &quot;What was that? Because that was really, really scary.&quot; The captain explains that they've had of some sort but that the aircraft and that they're evaluating what's going on. The cabin crew responds that she's really happy to hear that and that there but she also has some follow-up questions. She asks for example what the rudder does when they're going in for landing later on. And this is a small detail in the report but it's something that I think because it shows a very good company culture. I really like when cabin crew asks because it indicates that they feel that they should remind the pilots that might come ahead. And what makes me even more happy because he commends her on it. He says, &quot;That's a great question. We are going to look at how the aircraft responds and how the flight controls respond What this tells me is that it's likely that American Airlines have a quite good company culture, that they have the ability whenever they have a question in the courses about leadership When the captain comes back from his call to flight level 220 or 22,000 feet. He continues to discuss with the first officer we should return back to JFK and land there? And it's at this point that it seems to dawn on the captain that yes, We've experienced something very non-normal here. We should go back. But it also sows doubt in his mind. Why didn't he think about this before? It starts to dawn on him maybe he's not fit to continue to fly that he should have thought about He's just been very shook up over the whole experience. And this points to yet another really important thing and that is the ability to self-assess is he's taking a cold hard look at himself Should I continue? Have I done the things that I was expecting of myself? And the answer to that is no. And he realizes that, and he has the personal strength to actually act on it and that Anyway, he continues to talk to the first officer. He says that he agrees and he asks the first officer back towards JFK. At time 20:50:05, the first officer and explained what happened during the departure. He also asked them to get a clearance Now this happened about 10 minutes that I'm pointing out that timing is because and that is the importance of quick communication whenever something happens. Because what has actually happened here a quite severe impact with its left hand wing. The wing has impacted a distance marker on the runway and it's taken out several edge And it turns out that it's actually strewn over the runway but also over a perimeter road. Now this happened during the hours of darkness So some external sources that I've been talking to about this story who was actually working that this aircraft departed that something had happened on the runway, on the same runway. I wanted to use this incident as an example to communicate whenever like a bird strike or something like this and check and possibly avoid Once the crew had explained what had happened, to declare an emergency. The crew discussed that a little bit that the aircraft was handling well so they chose not to declare a mayday. Instead they leveled off the aircraft had decided that he indeed wasn't fit to the first officer and he takes up the role The first officer briefs for arrival back into JFK. They decide to use Runway 04 Left for arrival because that's the longest runway slightly overweight but they choose not just because they know, from experience, that it's not going to be a problem and they have checked the performance that, obviously, you can discuss But in this case the pilots decided to prioritize a quicker return back to JFK At time 20:54, a cabin crew member When the captain takes up the interphone, who's sitting near the wing has reported it looks like it's dented. The captain responds that he doesn't but it doesn't matter because And he then briefs the cabin crew about the return. The cabin member acknowledges this and hangs up the interphone she comes back and tells the captain and it looks like there is some The captain thanks her for the information about the arrival and tells them to be vigilant to the passengers telling them and that they're returning towards JFK as a precaution. After this, the aircraft descends normally, following clearances to return The first officer slows the aircraft down and the aircraft handles well. He flies a normal ILS approach and at time 21:08:36, the aircraft touches down safely When the aircraft pulls up on stand, and the pilots are greeted by maintenance personnel who explains to them that they must The pilot goes out and are shocked to the left-hand wing. The outboard leading edge slat and there is a huge dent just below the sharklet where a piece of the distance marker, the runway distance marker After further examination, it was also concluded that the left-hand wing from about mid-span of the wing, causing the left wingtip than the right wing tip. And because of this, American Airlines So what actually caused this then? Well, the final report was not It basically concluded that after consulting and Airbus, it seems like it was during the rotation that caused the incident. Airbus went in and examined 270,000 different flights and out of all of those flights, only one other flight had more or equal amount And over 2,300 of those flights had more crosswind than what these guys experienced. So the final report basically concluded but they never really revealed what caused it and we will never really know. Maybe the captain responded to a sudden gust, maybe he was sitting wrong on his chair. That might be an explanation to why he felt or maybe it was just a sudden brain fart as he was doing the rotation. We will never really know that. And that's what I feel is different with this incident from other accidents and incidents to be a long chain of different causal factors that leads up to the incident. On the other hand, it seems that once this lapse had occurred, the good CRM training that the crew had and the sturdiness and saved the day and stopped this The pilots received some retraining on crosswind handling and as far as I know, they're now back flying again This is a great example of how just culture an honest mistake no matter how bad it is, and just shown that they have reached they're back flying again, Now if you wanna see a video where debris on the runway led to one in the world, well then check this video out or if you wanna binge on this series If you wanna support the work that I do here on the channel and my team, then consider becoming part or buy yourself some merch. Have an absolutely fantastic day Bye-bye.