Translator: Cecilia Hu Ok. Take a look at this guy. And by show of hands, and everyone please participate, who thinks he wanted to be A lawyer? Ok. One or two. A heavy metal bassist? Ok. Yeah! We think a face tells a lot. It's not Bon Jovi in the picture. I am. (Laughter) A misguided, indiscreet, 17 year old who initially wanted to be an economist. But now I study psychology. I also study faces, and, charisma. I grew up in South Africa which cultivated my interest in charisma. I saw my dad as a community leader running for about a dozen elections and winning most of them. I saw my mum managing her shop and getting the most out of her staff. I saw South Africa transition peacefully from aparteid to democracy mostly because of one great leader. Nelson Mandela. So, I have often wondered, Can it be measured? Can it be developed? I became a professor in the Faculty of Business and Economics at the university of Lausanne. But at times, studying the Higgs field. Charisma is hard to define, hard to measure, but its effects are evident to see. Like the Higgs field charisma gives mass, gravitas, not to particles, but to social movements. Just when I thought I was beginning in 2005 my world was turned upside down. A study published in the journal Science by Alex Todorov's lab showed that naive subjects the results of congressional elections merely by rating the faces of the winner and runner up. What? I thought when I heard it. Impossible! Only in America! (Laughter) Would this work in Europe? So you can better understand what they did take a look at these two guys. By show of hands, who of the two seems more competent? More intelligent? More leader-like? Who thinks the guy on the right? Ok. A couple of hands there. The guy on the left? Ok. Evident majority and the majority got it right! Now, you don't know them. These two guys On the right, is Timothy Michels, a Republican. On the left is Russell Feingold, a Democrat. Who actually went on to win. Whether a pro- or anti- whatever, pro-gun, anti-gun, pro-God, anti-God, pro-gay, anti-gay - in a couple of seconds, predicted the voting outcomes who had a lot more information Is there something in politician's faces that signals their competence, or do we carry some evolutionary baggage that biases our judgement and healthy looking faces? I repeated the experiments here. Suprisingly, Swiss subjects were able to predict the results of French parliamentary run off elections. (Laughter) To entertain the evolutionary argument I re-ran the experiments with young, very young children from 5 to 13 years. Now, such young children don't know competence, intelligence or leadership, but they do know what a boat captain is. So we asked them to play a boat game and they had to select the boat captain from among the pairs of faces (Laughter) The kids were as accurate as the adults. A 71% hit rate at the individual level, and 85% hit rate A kid of 5 or 65 &quot;voted&quot; in the same way. Come, let's try it here with some election races Who thinks the guy on the right would make a better boat captain? Evident majority. I don't even need to go to the left. Let's try the next one. Who says the guy on the right? Ok, 2 or 3 hands. The guy on the left? Ok you guys are doing amazing! Two more to go. This is a test to see how normal you are. Ok, don't laugh! (Laughter) They haven't chosen their faces, ok. Who says the guy on the right? Ok, hardly anyone. The guy on the left? Alright, evident majority. Last pair. Who says the lady on the right? Ok, majority already. Fantastic! Well done. You guys did excellent. 5 out of 5. You are normal, Give yourselves a round of applause. Come on. Yeah, yeah you passed the test. (Applause) Ok. That's how I felt when I actually in the journal Science. I was rocking. I was the man. On top of the world! But, in private, faced, yeah, faced with this result, I wondered, what am I suppose to teach? (Laughter) What am I supposed to teach if one's ability to succeed as a leader depends on one's face? How could I justify my professorship? Should I change career and become a plastic surgeon? (Laughter) I have found similar &quot;face effects&quot; in a variety of situations. In politics, in academia and the business world. Some expert I was on leadership. I knew nothing! But one thing I knew for sure, is that we have a tag around our necks. People size us up on how we look; our face, height, whatever and put a price on the tag. If we look like a million dollars, they fill in the blanks and assume we have If we don't look like a million dollars, well, then we have a problem. (Laughter) So I set out on a mission. How can we change the price The answer - with charisma. Charisma is symbolic influence rooted in values and emotions. By symbolic I mean, represents something. Stands for something. Something that can be seen, touched and smelled. Let me show you the results of six studies my co-authors and I have undertaken all focusing on that alchemic ability We narrowed charisma down to several charismatic leadership tactics, which I will describe in a bit. In the first study we filmed EMBA students giving a speech. Then we trained them to use the tactics and filmed them again. Independent judges rated the speeches. We found that the EMBA students were able to double their use Charisma could be taught and the more charismatic the more the students were seen This study is important because we controlled and for the constant effects which includes their face, The EMBA students were able to change the price people put on their tags. We found the same results in a field experiment with managers. We replicated this The use of these tactics With these tactics we can predict who will become the President of the United States of America and this, controlling for incumbency and for macro-economic effects. Recently we've been interested to see on worker performance. We recruited 106 temporary workers, to prepare postal mail on behalf of a charity. Unbeknown to the workers, we randomised them into one of three conditions. In the first group, the baseline, the workers had no bonuses and received a standard motivational speech A rather normal looking kind of guy. I guess you would agree. We motivated the second group with bonuses for good performance and they received the same standard speech too. The third group, had no bonuses but received a charismatic (Laughter) Relative to the baseline, both bonuses and charisma, significantly increased and their effects This charisma result is crazy because it's not well explained We got increased performance, basically for free. (Laughter) And, charisma significantly decreased production costs. We got increased performance without paying economic incentives! Finally, we know that charisma works in the micro-blogosphere, Twitter, where text is limited to 140 characters. We tracked 30 politicians and 30 CEOs and coded all their tweets, The more charismatic tactics tweets had, the more they were retweeted Going from zero to four tactics increased retweets by over 450%. I know you're wondering, &quot;What are these charismatic tactics?&quot; I'll let you in on a secret. It's quite simple, really. To connect, a leader must do three things. First, frame to give the vision. Paint a picture and focus attention by using methaphor, stories and other techniques. I'll give you examples of these in a bit. Second, provide substance express the sentiments of the collective, and give confidence in goals. Third, deliver in an animated and passionate way, using voice, gestures and other tactics. So let me show you an example of how not to do it. Cognitive psychology theory suggests that when a target is described whether clustered under an implicit perceivers speciously impute the target with other traits that correlate or with the prototype, but which are not used What did I just say? (Laughter) Ok. Now maybe this kind of communication is useful when speaking or to Sheldon from the Big Bang Theory. (Laughter) Isn't it more engaging to hear - and I'm going to say the same thing We all have a tag around our necks. People size us up on how we look, our face, height, whatever and put a price on the tag. If we look like a million dollars, they fill in the blanks and assume we have Now that was an example of using metaphor. Metaphors simplify, aid in recall In fact, charisma is all about being able to get a vision across, There are a variety of ways to do this. Let me give you another example. So you may be wondering, &quot;Can I learn charisma?&quot; &quot;If I use the tactics, will people notice &quot;Would using them I used the following combination: Rhetorical questions, which create a puzzle, an intrigue to be solved. A list of three. Why three? Well, three is indicative of a pattern, suggests completeness and sounds nice. Did you notice? Three reasons! I also expressed the sentiments of the collective, to close the psychological gap between us. How about the following combination? We're not here to talk about We're here to talk about the practical realities of leadership and it is your duty to exercise it in a morally responsible I focused your attention using a contrast, &quot;We're not here to do this, but that,&quot; capturing the sentiments Hands up, who here wants to listen to academic mumbo jumbo? Ok. No one. I thought so! Sometimes we have one or two (Laughter) I turned the contrast and I finished it off I also used moral conviction, one of the key tactics, which signals one's values and makes a contract on which one is to be judged. Now there are other tactics, like telling captivating stories which creates identification aids in seeing the vision and really recounting the moral message. Of course, delivery is very important too. Now, there might be some of you &quot;Yeah right, are you kidding me?&quot; &quot;Are you telling me will make a difference?&quot; Yes they can. Remember the experiment I showed you with the actor? Where we found got the same Well, when I first proposed that we use metaphors and stories to motivate the workers my co-authors, who are economists, were very skeptical would make workers work harder. So, they tried their best to convince me to take the stuff out, because I truly believed Let me tell you what finally happened. In one part of the actor's speech, he was urging the workers to prepare as many letters as possible for the fundraising drive. In the standard speech condition, whether without bonuses or with bonuses, we asked him to say something like this and I'm very briefly summarising. He told the workers to see how many people were in the room. And all the other people That every extra letter they prepared could potentially make to a child who had cancer or whatever. But in the charisma condition, we told him to say the following: So you might think, &quot;Well, I'll just do what I have to. Will my extra effort help?&quot; Yes it will! This reminds me of a story of an old man who, while walking along the seashore, saw a young girl picking up starfish and throwing them into the sea. The old man approached her saying, &quot;What are you doing?&quot; She replied, &quot;I'm picking up starfish and throwing them into the sea, because the sun's coming up &quot;But,&quot; said the man, &quot;there are thousands of starfish the sun's already high How can you possibly make a difference?&quot; The girl bent down, picked up a starfish threw it into the sea and said, &quot;Well, I made a difference to that one.&quot; Now when you have time, go back and see what tactics I'm sure you'll have fun trying out these tactics Put the price you want, on your tags. Then, go out there and make a difference! So, what are you going to do? Thank you, and a big thanks to my co-authors who have taught me Thanks. Thank you!