[JORDAN] Welcome to Sad Boyz. I'm a big baby. I'm Jarvis. I'm crying. Wah, wah, waaaaah. I poo-pooed. Doo-doo. Welcome to Sad Boyz, a podcast about feelings - I'm a widdle baby. - Dude - I can't wait to see the interpretation of what that was. - Yeah. Yeah, it was me. Uh, what's up? Up front, I saw somebody call it out in And I - unfortunately, has gone the way of the dodo. - It's, uh, a seasonal thing, I think. It's a buildup to live shows. you'll see it spinning up. You've gotta come up with a new thing. What's, uh - well... I was about to say what's grey, slightly colder place, - [JARVIS] Oh, yeah. &quot;Ooh, wow. Hey!&quot; There we go. - (perkily) And I'm Jordan! Ooh, I'm in a good mood. &quot;Minnesota nice,&quot; I heard about, and it's when you wanna - &quot;Argggh! Shake my hand, bud!&quot; I was with you for a second. Hey! I'm the most prolific Oh, I see. That's the thing; Gonna getcha! He's an original character - I see. This is your reel for Fargo. Yeah. He doesn't kill, but ooh, (inexplicably Irish) Ooh, top o' the mornin'. What's goin' on, laddies?! - I'm gonna take your life! Ooh, check out my coffee brand! Oh, I was thinking about that where he ended up And she goes, um, - &quot;Oh, that's too dark for me.&quot; &quot;That's...&quot; Oh, no, she goes, &quot;I love dark chocolate.&quot; - [JARVIS] &quot;I love dark chocolate.&quot; - Oh, that's too dark for me. - That's right. &quot;I simply couldn't.&quot; (laughing) Joseph, uh... Who wrote Heart of Darkness? Joseph... Not Joseph Campbell. - Uh, Joseph... - Say what? - CONRAD! Great job, Anastasia, - Unlike us. You did. Uh, 'cause you're - And you're not rad. [ANASTASIA] Hiii. I have a mic. It's OK. She's learning. You're like one of the guests. Anastasia's currently a smol bean. She will grow into a full human being [ANASTASIA] I'm just a li'l bean! Speaking of little beans Without spoilers, I saw The Boy and the Heron - uh, recently. - And it's good. Yeah. I really enjoyed it. I don't wanna give any spoilers, without knowing anything. - You see it at the movies? I saw it at, um, there was a little event that was put on... 'Cause it's like running out of - It's running out of theaters. (laughing) The theaters are We are running out of theaters. Um, it's gonna be out of theaters soon, so I wanted to get a chance to see it. Uh, saw it subbed. I recommend it. I did hear, Uh, a good friend of ours, who I don't know if they're but they said that Robert Pattinson put his whole so I guess I'll have to... I guess I'll have to go, um, see that. At some point. I'll see it again. [ANASTASIA] I heard a story about where, um... [ANASTASIA] they didn't tell him in advance that they wanted him - and they just forgot he was British. That's his curse. [ANASTASIA] And so he showed up to record, and they were like, &quot;OK, and he was like, &quot;Oh, - to prepare my American accent.&quot; [ANASTASIA] They were like, - And he's like, &quot;Brooklyyyyn!&quot; - He's like, &quot;I'm walkin' here!&quot; &quot;'Eyyyy! 'Ey, it's the 1940s, Look, Jordan hasn't seen the frickin' - I'm supposed to know everything? and I'm about to go on I'm bein' dropped into a sea over here. It's good? Go see it? Yes, Jordan? Yes. Go see The Boy and the Heron. Um... I have avoided, like, - everything about it. I truly, if I were to give any more I think it would be a spoiler. But, um, you know, Miyazaki's done it again. How you doing, dude? What's up? - I'm doing good. I'm Mr. Movies. I'm going to see movies. I'm tired all the time, and I really wish I wasn't fatigued. - &quot;I'm trying to see more movies.&quot; Uh, (tm), available now at [Jarvis.store], - January 6th sale. Let the record show I didn't missay my URL. But, um... Yeah, in general, I'm good. And in lieutenant, I'm bad. No, sorry. - Captain. - It's in full boil. But, uh... I'm all right. - (laughing) I've been better. Oh, I just remembered about famine. I just remembered - Gun! - and I was like, &quot;What?!&quot; - Why did he do that?! - Oh my god. - Oppenheimer? Yeah. I didn't see either one. Of the Barbenheimers. - Oh! I just am rarely on my... movie grind. They were coming out I was waking up kinda too late like, to get there in time. But, uh, I... I don't know if I have a... the stamina for another - [JARVIS] Fair. They feel like music videos to me, It's, like, scored all the way through. And Barbie, it feels - I'd like to see it with people. Well, um, I'm happy to host a little... Uh, I would host - you know what? I bet people are gonna - after the movies go to video-on-demand. And so maybe I'll have a Barbenheimer party - and you can just show up for Barbie. this guy's watching movies for girls. - Yeah. - That I have seen! I have seen it. And by process of - kind of like... osmosis, I have also seen it. - Mm, I see. like a K-pop or Taylor Swift song, We like all the things that you like, - and we agree with you about that. We stan the one that you stan as well. My bias is... (mumbling) Oh my god, I stan them too. Let's say it at the same time. - Same. - 'cause the mic was far away. And Anastasia, say it into the mic. - Yeah! - Didn't you hear what they did? Oppenheimer?! Boo! - Latest. What's crackin'? We've chatted less than usual - I think we're both in a chatless mood. Uh, you were a sleepy boy. We had a one-on-one, and you were like... &quot;I'm gonna be in dreamtown.&quot; I've become the sleep bastard, I will say. Mr. Sandman. Yeah, you're always I had to make you take off Sure, yeah. With Zs that were floating above your head. Well, I woke up the moment you took away the feather that was floating above my lips - as I went &quot;mi-mi-mi-mi...&quot; - (groaning) I do all of them, yeah. - Honk-schmi-mi-mo-mo. I have something to show you - Aroo?! - I have been - when I'm surprised. - When I'm a bastard? I have, uh, a sleep tracker It works well as an alarm. It does a slow wake-up of 30 minutes' time. But, by consequence of using that I finally have, you know, - the stats are starting to make sense. The average score I had for sleep, the average hours were like and then the time in bed Yeah. Oh, my time in bed's so long. The quality was 61%, average. This is the sleep bastard's Ooh. Ohhh! - Wooow. Nine hours in bed. - 98% quality of sleep. I did listen back to one of and I say something along the lines of, And I still have no idea - I don't know why it bothers It's, uh - that's... That's for you. Yeah, You can mark your favorites, - which is very funny. a golf tournament in your dreams. &quot;Swin, and there it is.&quot; Yeah, commentary and - Yeah. - &quot;That'll move the chains.&quot; &quot;OK.&quot; &quot;What is that? I'm learning it's a club.&quot; Uh, how are you, though? - Being the bastard of, uh, Mr. Sandman? Mr. Sandman bastard sleep? Um, good. It feels nice to be... So, last night... Um, me and Katie We play Pokemon GO. I don't think we've I'm not a loser, though. Uh, the... general motif of that, we do it a little Katie went home. Took the dog, who I am now dog-sitting - for the next week. - Granted, Fox is at my house anyways - But she'll, um... Hey, maybe she'll be sleeping I don't know. Maybe we'll be 'cause that way But the, uh - don't tell! Don't tell the old ball and chain. But I, um... Last night, I did something which was I was really sleepy Kinda half-napping. We get up, go to her car, Katie's sent off. - Thank goodness. Time to game out.&quot; I went home, and I realized, like, no part of me, not a single part of me, wanted to sit down and play a game. No part of me wanted to watch something. There was actually nothing And instead of my instinct being, &quot;How can I get to a place It's like 8:30 p.m. I just went, - &quot;I'm just going to go to bed.&quot; It is telling me that... I think my instinct for so long, everyone I know is eight hours behind. And I was like, &quot;I'll just so maybe I can play a game or And I just... was like, &quot;All I want to do is sleep. What is this part of me Popped my little sleepy med. - Became something of the sleep bastard. - [JORDAN] The King Shit of Fuck Mountain. &quot;And there's a hit of the ball. Very nice.&quot; - &quot;There it is.&quot; I'm being told that is the ball. OK, good.&quot; I would love to watch basketball Where it's like, &quot;And they're - Mm. - Harden passes the ball to George. George does a step back, and he shoots the three ball. It doesn't go in the big circle, - It's a shot clock violation. He did not hit the rim. Ah, OK. I'm gonna head home. Uh, game's a little too loud for me. - Sounds good. We've been asking the crowd. They've all got headphones on. They're having fun. Anyway, I've been told I'm watching - I'm at home by myself. - It's just a dream. And then I wake up. Feather blows away. Swish! Uh, yeah, no. I'm doing OK. - That made me feel very proud. - 'Cause that's the New Year's resolution. Every time... You know, like if I'm a Final Fantasy VII and every time you use, uh... um... Well, &quot;Insomnia&quot; does kinda sound I was gonna translate it into one. Um, like Thundara or something. Every time you - and cast Insomnia on me. Every time you cast Insomnia I get a little bit of chip damage. - I know, yeah. - Not dead yet. Then a quick healing spell of, &quot;Hey, (health regen noise) Yeah, so that's actually refueling me. I'm getting healed. It doesn't do anything but I like to think as a boss, maybe we could live in harmony. subvert the expectation that you're supposed to destroy the boss. You're not really a boss so much; That's true. But I do like to think of - Everybody does have a health bar, Yeah, you're an ally. and I'm not gaining anything I don't know. Yeah, it's a tiny... Like, I did also and I'm a little sore 'cause I was an eepy guy. I was And I woke up feeling a little sore, &quot;Yeah, my leg actually - so that's progress.&quot; How about you? What's your - Fuckin'... - Keep fuckin' surviving, dude. My New Year's resolution - [JORDAN] Is to get to 2025. Um, that's the next one? OK. - Sure, all right. Damn. All right, cool. - Um... One thing I wanted to talk about, uh, is... OK, well, one, um... We... talked in the last episode about how, like... I said that one of my biggest would be to have a Wiki page, like a Wikia for Sad Boyz. And a couple of people have created a Sad Boyz Fandom wiki. And this is a PSA. If you want to productively I don't know what's there. take a little peek and check it out. And you are all welcome, you are welcome to include that my dream is to die in a duel. OK. - Very nice. Sad-Boyz-podcast.fandom.com. - Wow. - Let's check out 2019. - Whoa! I have some theories. And then we started - That's fun. &quot;Pod-demic,&quot; I forgot about that. &quot;Papa John's Trash.&quot; Gosh, it's funny how... These have to be prompted. There's no way I would remember &quot;Surviving a Bear Attack.&quot; - Uh... These currently are just lists, right? There's no, like, links? - OK, cool. Oh, look at 20 - - Oh, look at 2023! - Destroys the previous year. And this year, only two? Come on. The, uh - what's gonna be interesting is sometimes we fiddle with for, like, algorithm purposes. Sooooo, good luck! (both laughing) Um, but we will start - I think we will start numbering them soon, so it'll be a little bit easier And then, um - Oh, that's cool. There's a little thing Shameless promotion, - to all of these episodes. And - I forgot about our off - &quot;Our off.&quot; I forgot about our AI girlfriend, Tasha. - That was a fun episode. - Did you see the title of that? Oh, &quot;There are two N-words,&quot; yeah. That was very funny. Um... So, uh... Yeah, so there's and there's also our live show. There's some... there's &quot;Episode 0.&quot; There's some stuff just some extra-extra stuff. We're actually recording Um, but yeah. Thanks to the - I believe it's two editors right now, but, um, get in there. Get in there and make stuff. I would love to hear about lore so that we can even keep track of it, - You do know better than we do. 'cause people will come up to us and we'll go, &quot;Huh? What now?&quot; There was a surfer, or something? - Oh, Ted Nurfer, nervous surfer. Now that that one's been brought back, Somebody will, like, &quot;Sklimble on the 19, huh?&quot; Yeah, and we'll be like, - &quot;For certain, my friend.&quot; - &quot;18, even.&quot; - Jesus. Delete the wiki; delete the show. I still - yeah, little things like that The other was the art that... the very accurate interpretations of Jacob - that we've been receiving. a screen and a tendril beast with cameras. Yeah, an eldritch cyberpunk horror. And, like, so far there's been and they are close. Yeah, like shockingly right. Given the fact that we did not show I recognize it. Like, it almost looks like what we actually do see. Oh, like we witnessed a crime? Like, &quot;Um, male... - Perfectly rectangular screen.&quot; &quot;Cameras, I guess?&quot; - Thank you for being sweet. This is a little reward. - Ohhh! - Oh, look at that. The, um, one thing that and I knew what I was I started watching - are you Uh, his - notoriously, infamously. OK, so for those who are Billy Mitchell is a... - Um... So, he was featured - he... His most - he's best known for playing the game Donkey Kong for the arcade cabinet. Um, and, uh... You're probably thinking, &quot;That must because who would care if you lied?&quot; So, there's this documentary that came out and it's very good. Kinda before speedrunning was mainstream. Yeah. It's good from but there's this guy, Steve Wiebe, who's trying to beat the Donkey Kong And then there's this guy, uh, Billy Mitchell, who is, like, kind of like the villain of the thing. And throughout the documentary, he's talking about, um, how, you know, your skill as a gamer is how well you can perform under high-pressure situations to really test your mettle while ducking and diving - abilities to play with him. So, in that documentary, we never see Billy Mitchell He kind of, honestly, plays the way that Katt Williams is talking about &quot;They won't be in the same building as me.&quot; &quot;Kevin Hart ducks me In case people need a visual for, uh, Billy Mitchell, he looks like - God, my ADHD brain is taking me to - There's a clip, um... There's this NBA player named Karl-Anthony Towns, and there is a, um... - &quot;Towns,&quot; like a place? He did a foul a while back, and - There's a referee - So, when a player commits a foul, scorer's table or whatever. and he describes what's happening. Then they go back, the referees talk, and they report to the public And, um, the guy, like, Karl-Anthony Towns is known as KAT. Um, 'cause K-A-T, right? And so the guy goes, um, &quot;The foul was on Katt... Williams.&quot; (both laughing) - Just instinct took over. He accidentally says &quot;KAT&quot; and then his auto-complete goes, - and he just goes, &quot;Katt... Williams.&quot; And he just, like... - &quot;KAT&quot; can't be long enough. and then he just walks away Maybe Jacob, you could pull that up while Would you say, for a visual, Billy Mitchell looks like if Matt Mercer (laughing) Holy shit! - There's something wrong with him. was bald and, to compensate for it, he found a life-sized Lego piece of hair to, like, attach to his head. Because Billy Mitchell's hair - OK, Jacob, can you pull up Billy Mitchell's hair? - Billy Mitchell's hair - 'cause it won't let it come up normally. - Um... It looks like he's in motion. - Goddamn. Oh my lord. Look at that fourth one. Good lord. Anastasia, look at this. - [ANASTASIA] I am. - His little smirk. but this guy, he's super litigious, and he sues a lot of people who talk bad about him and stuff, so hey, maybe he'll do that to us. What's going on with his American...? I'm just poking fun at him. Anyway, uh, so he's purported as - He's kinda like And, because Steve Wiebe, he goes and he gets this and then right as he does that, Billy Mitchell releases like a VHS tape of him getting a higher score, but it's him playing it on his couch, not doing it in a high-stakes environment. And it's not verifiable. Or it's like... For the longest time, it's been, but people, uh... I think even as early back then, have alleged that all of it was fake, and he played the game on a emulator, which you can't do for this type of, um... You just can't compare But then on top of that, they assume that sort of cheating happened. And there's a lawsuit. There's actually a number And Karl Jobst has made That's mainly how [JORDAN] He is like the biographer. - Yeah, and then, like... with a bunch of photos, like, - I have a hunch.&quot; - so that's still ongoing. Super, super litigious. And there's just so many, like, videos of him being caught in, like, apparent lies. I wanna be very careful with Billy, to be clear, this... It doesn't benefit you to go after us. There's no - This is fine. Doing a thing would be way worse. But the, um... But there's a four-hour video that explains in gratuitous detail how Billy Mitchell, uh, - Billy Mitchell's runs cannot be possible. Uh, and one of the basic things is, like, you can tell that his runs are on MAME, run on the emulator, the arcade emulator, because of, like, how they draw the levels. - [JORDAN] Mm. at the time that Billy Mitchell did this, where they, like, sort of... the scanline went the wrong way, - Oh, the draw distance is busted. instead of drawing it from the top, Like, when I was in college, uh, I learned how to program Game Boy games and learned how a Game Boy works. - And so it's - I was a little bit of a game boy, myself. And so you basically have a scanline, and then you have a video buffer, kind of taking the stuff that's in the like you have this line And then that line has - within the refresh rate of the screen in order for the picture because if it was slower, - like a half-picture when the... Yeah. So it's like, um... So, anyway, basically the actual arcade cabinet but I think this version of MAME was going from left to right or something. So if you slow down the footage, So it's allegedly fake. - Or on an emulator, we should say. Anyway, I'm getting into the thing. I believe that video, the four-hour video, is by vi... Uh, probably Veritas Let me see. Veritas, yeah. I was like, So I was like, &quot;That's veritas, right?&quot; - OK. Anyway... Anyway, uh... So, that's the video, and then But this lawsuit settled yesterday, and then Billy Mitchell went out and and everyone else was like, Um, and one of the settlement things was that they have to put up version of the score archive on, um... (sighs) Uh... What is it called? The, um... Oh my god. It's two words, It's, uh - it's not, uh... [JORDAN] What's the function of this? The, um, who the lawsuit was with. - [JORDAN] Oh, OK. - Twin Galaxies. - I was like, &quot;Twisted realms.&quot; - Yeah, Twin Galaxies. So, Twin Galaxies has and they have a archive leaderboard. They had taken Billy Mitchell's scores down 'cause they were proved They allegedly believe them to be fake, Yeah, and so now there's where you can see And that was for him, like, - &quot;I was right; I didn't cheat.&quot; Then everyone's like, &quot;No, you did.&quot; Um... - [JORDAN] &quot;Ah!&quot; and so, like, um... I don't even know how to describe it. I think I've done a really - deposition videos of him lying. There are so many provably, like... Or, uh... One would assume that he's... false - not telling the truth. Allegedly lying, in a kind of &quot;don't talk to us&quot; way. - And &quot;go away&quot; way. Uh, it's a crazy story, so I recommend if and you're nosy and messy like myself, you can watch Karl Jobst's videos or the... He is a very funny presence. - Like his presentation is... It's almost like... Like, he's alleged for I suspect he may be lying about being If you said, like, &quot;Did you know I'd be like, &quot;Wow, they are - &quot;They're, like, almost there.&quot; &quot;Wow. In the '80s? All right, let's watch this [ANNOUNCER] So, it's the kick as [REFEREE] Upon review, the has been determined to be - for the unnecessary kick to the shin. Yeah, he's just typed Do you ever have that, where you've sent so LFG comes up - instead of USA or whatever? &quot;imy&quot; the other day, and it autocorrected to &quot;oh my god.&quot; So I was like, &quot;Oh, that is Yeah, that's like that meme of, &quot;Hey, Grandpa just passed,&quot; and they Yeah, the pig, the boar? - Yeah. [JORDAN] &quot;What?!&quot; - This is so - such - This is such a silly thing. 'cause I'm so hot. - Oh, OK, yeah. Yeah, I am gonna make it Um, by getting Jordan out of here, - Ayyyy. [ANASTASIA] It's such a weird thing &quot;I wanna conquer the Donkey Kong world.&quot; I know. It's like... It's sad, because it's like... You could have a full life outside of this. But he, like, can't give it up. And... it's so weird, because there's even... - alleges... [ANASTASIA] Just say that There's even allegations that, um, that there are certain awards like &quot;Best Video Game Player or &quot;Best Video Game Player and those awards, like, don't exist, or the governing bodies that have denied giving him the awards. And then he's had new versions of the awards made that are kinda fake, and there's And it's just like this whole big thing, for what reason? For what purpose? [ANASTASIA] It kinda reminds me - who started the cult, um, NXIVM. [ANASTASIA] And he'd be like, - I am the smartest man in the world.&quot; [ANASTASIA] &quot;And I'm a judo champion.&quot; - So factually provable. in one of the depositions, there's this argument And it's like an official Donkey Kong And... And he gets asked, And he's like, &quot;Well, I wouldn't have played on a... I've never played on &quot;joystick machine,&quot; or whatever. And all of it's leading up to the fact playing on one that's not black, Or there's even a, um, some video game... archive board, or company, where he's, like, on the board of trustees, but then says that he was And then there's actual documents that have his name on them It's like, all this stuff It's such an unsustainable way to lie. It's like the grown-up, &quot;Hey, have you played Mario?&quot; and as a little kid you're like, &quot;Yeah. And I know everything about it.&quot; &quot;Oh, Nepec?&quot; But also, Billy Mitchell's right, and he's been right the whole time, And he's the best Donkey Kong player Oh, I was just thinking about how - it would be so sick if he was right. then, I mean, he wouldn't be 'cause right now I'm saying Why would he feel threatened He's the best to ever do it, Like Abraham Lincoln and George Washington. [ANASTASIA] I heard he's He's Donkey Kong's brother. His uncle's dad's best friend's dog's dad, yeah, he was heavily involved Menio, was it? Mamrio? - Yeah, dude. - The Mamrio siblings. Uh, so speaking of NBA, Anastasia here is our resident NBA expert, and she has prepared a game for us. - I don't know if I believe him. - [ANASTASIA] Coming! Yeah, I take the seat off. OK, so you guys... Uh, well... Jarvis and I have done this - just the two of us, where - Where - (all laughing) Where we're just hanging out, &quot;I wanna name two players on every team,&quot; and I'm like, &quot;Go!&quot; Well, I'm trying to learn. I'm fully - This is how I am This is why I know is 'cause I go sponge-mode And so currently my And I was like, so impressed, because there are people that I know who are die-hard basketball fans who can't name players on every team. There's a lot of teams. Some teams you just don't watch. For some reason, you're watching that no one ever watches, like the Pistons. - That's true. Shoutout to my friend Kofie, or our friend Kofie - you've met Kofie - uh, who's a Pistons fans, I'm now, like, involved. I'm involved with the Pistons personally. You're intimately involved The friendship's finally paying off. So, Jarvis was like, and I was like, &quot;Hell yes. Um, and I wanted - - Jordan, you're also getting into NBA and working on it. So I wanted Um, I put questions So, I call this Basketball Game, - AKA Not the Game of Basketball. - Yeah. At some point, we will do a basketball game called &quot;Gaming, Specifically - Yes. we'll play a game of three-on-three. Or two-on-two. I guess there's four of us. Dude, Jacob's android body floating. Yeah. We'll play three-on-three, - but the third - Oh my god. [JORDAN] And I play in a truck. Um, OK, so the first question - is for Jarvis. Uh, what's this man's, - Look, I'm starting easy. - It'll get harder. - 'cause I won't know numbers. But this is Nikola Jokic. - OK. That was one I knew! No! - OK, so... There's a bonus question for Jarvis. Um... - Oh! OK, well, my assumption is horse, because he loves horses. - OK. Whooooa! What's the horse's name? - Outriderrrr! - Outrider! Those chains it has on looks like a ghost. It looks like Mewtwo, when they're So, he is Serbian, - Nikola Jokic, and he - trains, um... I don't know Carriage horses, I think? Carriage racing? You can just Google &quot;Nikola Jokic horse&quot; - and there's so many good photos of him - riding in the back of a carriage. Wait, literally carriage racing? Like... - That sounds... - in a carriage, not on top of the horse. - Because he's so big. He probably can't... - He's too big for the horse. No, but that's why Yeah, he's living vicariously - Vi-carriage-ly. at the end of, like - The Nuggets won the championship last year, - And he was pissed - &quot;Vi-carriage-ly.&quot; (laughing) - (coughs) Sorry. like after the Nuggets they were like, and he was like, &quot;No, I gotta get home! - I have a race on Friday!&quot; &quot;What day is parade?&quot; - (pained) &quot;Ahhhhh.&quot; He's like, &quot;I have to go home! But then he came back, but he was like, &quot;I saw all the people and then he went to the parade and then he went back to Serbia and didn't And then started playing out of his mind Everybody's like, &quot;What do you mean, He's like, &quot;No, I touch horse.&quot; - &quot;I hold onto horse. I dunk.&quot; &quot;I can palm horse's butt.&quot; &quot;Three-pointer with horse, - Yeah. - Are you ready, Jordan? Um... (Jarvis laughing) - OK. All right. Now, the... we're talking about the floor? - No. - So, there's a... To describe it to the listeners, So, I'm gonna... - It is orange with little stripes. I think it's a visibility thing - that you'll see a lot on a golf pitch. (Anastasia laughing) I'm gonna have to go... I don't know. I wanna be silly, right? - Ball for basketball. - Good job. - One point. - Well, yeah. You'll get more, I'm sure. Oh, I bet 2,000 points - You don't get to bet! - I bet one point on the next one. OK, next question, Jarvis, Which two players recently got traded OK. So, uh, I know And the other I think is Marvin Bagley III. OK, let's see. - Isaiah Livers and Marvin Bagley! And what are they? Ohhh, they are golfers. - They ride horses. (softly) There it is. What is - oh, sorry. Marvin Bagley, who is someone who... He was a first-round - He was a number-one overall draft pick, and he's seen as a bust. Or maybe he was number two, but he was - - He was high up. and then currently he's seen as a bust. And in fact, a lot of the... Wizar - sorry, not Wizards. A lot of the Pistons players are people like James Wiseman, who was a number-two pick for the Warriors, but then didn't pan out. And so then it's like this proving ground for a lot of these people who, like... are still... maybe they have another life. - Yeah, they're all young boys. Little jockeys. Who really - you know what? - I kinda hate that aspect of the NBA and sports in general, being like, &quot;You were a number-one draft pick, Yeah, it's like they're 19-year-olds. - They're children. Like, chill. And also, the right coach Yeah, 'cause I feel like so many times - it's opportunistic. Like the rankings in exact order of when they got drafted, - like top to bottom. when he went to Davidson, had a coach that - first of all, no D1 school, like, no traditional big - 'Cause he's too small. It's a... It's D1, but it's a... It's like a small school, but... - I can't remember the term. Well, there's a term that is escaping me. But anyway, it's a smaller, - lesser-known school. And, uh - But he had a coach that believed in him And I feel like if he wasn't you know, who's to say propel into what he became? Plus he was in the first round, but I think he was like sixth - So it's not even like people were that pumped on him. - No. - And then look what he became. I have to admit, when I looked it includes two players - for each section, right? I was under the - I sincerely thought the one for the Pistons and then his nickname, &quot;Mike Muscular.&quot; I - so, if you had I wouldn't have known, 'cause and Mike Muscala, but I do not - &quot;Mikey Muscular.&quot; the Clippers for a while, so I kind of watched him Also, there were rumors that &quot;Hey, let's go on a date,&quot; &quot;I'm playing basketball.&quot; Um, but this is funny to me because these are teams that, like, no one watches and - Yeah. seems to know something about them. Kinda the same thing. No one watches; The reason I started watching uh, tied the record for the longest single-season losing streak in basketball. And so then it became this thing of, like, every game of theirs was like a game seven, where you'd be like, And they had a game where the number-one sort of ranked team the Boston Celtics, they were and then somehow choked that game. &quot;You're ruining the streak! - Stop playing like that!&quot; Boston would've never heard They're the ones that got - Um... The Pistons had the Wingstop. but the Pistons - like, the Wingstop near here - Have some pride. Fine. Is it a basketball? - Ahhhh. Hint: his name is also He's a bit small. - He's not a basketball, right? He's... does he currently play basketball, Not the guy that the shoe is based on. No, the tiny guy - yeah, he hoops. OK, right. And he's on all the shoes? - Actually, he's not, I don't think. So, it's not Michael Jordan. He is on every shoe. - Is he on every shoe? He's called &quot;the Jordan swoosh.&quot; &quot;Just get it.&quot; - Uh... - &quot;Let's get it.&quot; &quot;Nike: Esskeetit.&quot; Uh... That's gonna have to be... - a child-sized Michael Jordan. Kind of sperm-sized, before - That's what his sperm looks like. Do you know what the logo is called? The logo mark for Jordan? Of course. Like, when you see that icon, Yeah. I know. (scoffs) OK. What's the - - It is actually Jarvis's third question. - I know what it is! - Yeah. - It's pretty straightforward, actually. I gotta say, I know the silhouette's It's one of those optical illusions, like, - &quot;Is this a vase or 2 old people kissing?&quot; - I know he's jumping. It looks like he's just Yeah. This is actually from when - Oh, that makes sense. Yeah. - When he was part of the Blue Man Group. OK, next question. Jarvis question three: What's the name of the youngest player who recently was so excited - This is a harder one. because it was a loss for the Warriors, and I am a Warriors fan, but it was GG Jackson - of the Memphis Grizzlies. - But this is a very cute clip. we can actually watch. - This is adorable. He's like 19 and some days. [SHAQ] GG, Shaq here. I just wanna say [SHAQ] You played a hell of a game. they know who you are now. [SHAQ] Congratulations [GG] Sir, it's a honor to get to hear [JORDAN] Awww! - Isn't he so cute? - That's so sweet. Jarvis is gonna know who you are. Can you imagine - I mean, it's just very exciting. (as Shaq) I'm sorry my chicken restaurant It was, like, pretty good at the start, but now I kind of have checked out of it. I have too many obligations. Hey, what's going on, I just wanted to say you played Hey, guys, it's the big guy, Charlie O'Neill. Charlie O'Neill. Oh, that's GG Jackson, by the way. - Oh, OK, yeah. Yes, OK&gt; Name the shoe man's friend, seen here. - (Jarvis &amp; Jordan laughing) You can't give it away, - Just in case he - All right. 'Kay. A lot of - GG Jackson wears shoes, - Is that right? Didn't see his legs in the clip. Uh, Shaq does not have legs, as shown OK. That is... I would describe it more - I would describe it as Uh, him and this character Mike - uh, Mi - Mike... - You call him Mike-Mike. - You call him Mike-Mike. I don't think they connect And he did make him drink - &quot;Mikey's special sauce.&quot; - That's true. So I'm gonna have to go with Bugs middle-name Bunny. I think he does have one. Yeah, it's like Charles - Yeah. - Oh, no. with the shoe man in the film Space Jam? Who was he playing against? - No, which game did they play? The jam. - &quot;Welcome to the jam&quot; is in the song. They don't say &quot;welcome to the basketball.&quot; Come on and jam, now. - Welcome to basketball! Everybody, get up! My name is the Jumpman, - We have an image of that. - Into space! What an unflattering image. - All of the - All of the stills of Space Jam online, you're like... - It doesn't look good. - Yeah. - It's a very bad movie. Yeah, we've come so far. I do imagine that it was, like, - so hard to do this back then. Like, even the reflection of Yeah. Part of it is - I mean, part of it that I don't like, and that always creeped me out as a kid, is the weird gradient shading - on all the cartoon characters. But it is very impressive. There's that meme of, uh... It was like - wait, what was it? It was like the cartoon and it's like Homer Simpson; - Homer Simpson with a little shading. Or like the close-up on Ren &amp; Stimpy. That's what it feels like. If you, uh, search on Google, you'll see the... There's pictures of Michael Jordan playing with guys in green suits - Oh, hell yeah. Is there a shot of him stretching his arm Oh, that rocks. Dude, this is like the horror cut. It is really weird and funny. - That's scarier than the Monstars. Genuinely, I was hoping the question was, so I could say &quot;the Monstars.&quot; - Ooh. - Now, in the case of - Yeah, pretty easy. How many to Jarvis? How many do you miss? - I mean, so far so good. - OK, Jarvis is doing - I'm actually impressed with both of you. Uh, you've both gotten Who's more fun? - Um, so let's see - - Jarvis's next question. What was &quot;The Decision&quot;? OK, so this is when - This is like, uh... I wanna say it's 2010, and it's when LeBron James leaves behind the team that drafted him, his hometown team, the Cleveland Cavaliers, and goes on - I don't know but has a hour-long TV special where he, like, hypes up - what team he's gonna go to. And he ends up deciding the Miami Heat; he's gonna take his talents to South Beach. Uh, and then he kinda became a villain to the NBA as a result, even though it was all - Um... His hometown is hating on him? That was his first game But, uh, where they had - It was like, uh, a horrible, like everyone was, like, ridiculing him and there were People were burning - It's like, &quot;Are you OK?&quot; - &quot;Is everything all right? and then he can't wear it anymore. They burned it. It's like... You're not hurting anyone but yourself, because if you had saved that jersey 20 years from now, you know? No, I'm pouring out all my Bud Light. How do you like that, LGBT? Like that Kid Rock thing where, um... where he, like, shot Bud Light cans with a rifle. And then, like, three months later, he was pictured at a football game And then got asked about it &quot;Come on, man. Leave me alone, man.&quot; Um, so there's a image here of LeBron. - Yeaaaaah. it'll go right to the point where he says. [INTERVIEWER] Do you have [LEBRON] Um, no. [ANCHOR] Would you like - or are you ready to make this decision? - or the lack of sleep. [ANCHOR] You still a nail-biter? [LEBRON] I have a little bit. Not of late. [ANCHOR] You've had so I guess it's time This is on ESPN. [ANCHOR] The answer to LeBron, what's your decision? [LEBRON] In this fall - [LEBRON] In this fall, I'm gonna and join the Miami Heat. [ANCHOR] Miami Heat. You can stop it. We don't - It's honestly the most - Yeah. - He's so much better on camera now. - But, um - I feel like it's pretty to frame and shoot that Like, the slow zoom they did - If Peter Crouch had said something and they whip-panned to him, like, &quot;What are you up to, Peter? What you doing, Like, it would feel off. Aw, look at him, his little shirt. Li'l baby LeBron. It looks like he's going to prom. Um, OK, next question. For Jordan, I believe. Name one NBA or WNBA team in California. Extra half-point Ooh. - Just the California teams. It's the half-point going away. Goodbye! See you! Uhhh, 'kay. Gotta throw in the Pistons, - Oh, no. We were just... OK. - They're all in California. OK, so, what, Pistons have - Oh, got us there. He names all 30 NBA teams. I'll quickly call out that Jarvis didn't - so he does not get it. - All of them at each time. - Wager them every time. &quot;Name one NBA or WNBA team in California.&quot; Lakers mode. - Ooh, gottem. - Uh, Warriors mode. Ooh! Shadowheart, the cleric - [JARVIS] No. - No. - &quot;The Shadowhearts.&quot; companion I made in-game. So, some people can have it later, - It's OK. Um... Um, 'cause she's in the WNBA. Presumably. The Warriors which is a different character. Uh... - How many other? - Ah. I said the Lakers and the Warriors, yes? Yes. You have two more - in California in the NBA. The California Knicks. - The New York Knickerbockers? - Aren't in California. Uh, can I have a hint for one of them? Um, one of them is in Sacramento. - Kings. - And the rest. the city that you live in. There are two teams here. You look so - (laughing) See, we should zoom in on this. I, uh, used to bite my nails, but I'm nervous now. Dude, that was such an Like, &quot;Hey, um... - Hey, are you hungry? I'm dad.&quot; If you're - oh, sorry. If you were hungry, I'd be - I'm not hungry anymore. I used to be. And so are we, for the - Um... - Heat. What do you do to your nails The Clippers. - The Clippers! - I don't get those points. - The Sparks. - The Los Angeles Sparks. Yeah. Whooooa. - Hey! - That's a good logo. - in California? LA gets three of them? Uh, the Oakland might be getting - or San Francisco might be getting, um, - a WNBA team, so... Guys. Uh, OK. That's not the - - Next question. Easy one. Who is Red Auerbach? I don't know. I do not know. - Um, Red Auerbach. Wait, I'm gonna guess. - That's my guess. That's him. - Oh. This photo's a hint, probably. - He's old. the founder of the NBA or something? No. Uh, but he - So, he is a '70s, like, very famous winning coach for the Celtics. - Oh. - after he retired from coaching. the Celtics' history. - Mmhmm. I knew. Look, I said - questions would be getting harder. Jordan just got a really hard one. - You got a hard one. Mine was a stinker, dude. I think Jarvis gets the half-point Um, Red Auerbach is - It's very funny, 'cause But also, he's chomping on a cigar like, - &quot;OK, boys, you gotta go in there.&quot; - &quot;'Ey, what is this?&quot; - and now there's no rules in basketball.&quot; We actually saw him - Ohhh! &quot;OK, so Larry's comin' in.&quot; - Oh, OK, yeah. even the name. &quot;Give me your gun &quot;Who do you think I am? Red Auerbach?!&quot; - &quot;That's not gonna fly in my precinct!&quot; What'd they say to him? &quot;Hey, you like basketball?&quot; OK, next question is also hard. How many points do you get Do you think I'm stupid? - No! - I think you're so smart! You think I'm dumb, and a lot of my practical skills and haven't really developed practical or significant way in, I don't know, Oh, 'cause I didn't finish high school! Great! Cool. And I don't know how to drive. - He's still going. - Who's telling him these things? I'm bad at... - I'm a little slow sometimes. - Oh, no. My doctor is concerned about He doesn't say it's dangerous; He just says, &quot;I'm sad that you have it.&quot; - &quot;Your butt.&quot; all of your friends and relatives.&quot; - &quot;I've gotta let everyone know.&quot; and e-mail your immigration lawyers, and you lost your visa as a result.&quot; America's like, &quot;We can't let you in I pray that there's not and it's not three points. OK, let's see. - Threeee! - Zero. He's holding up none. - That's Steph Curry. Two points for that. - Fuck. - I'll give you 30 points, his number. He's on the Warriors? And he's sponsored by, uh... - Rakuten. - Swish. - OK, next question. Yeah, it really does look like - Jarvis, explain the triangle defense. So, OK. What I know is that it was something in the olden days, in like the '90s. - And... Because there was Like, you couldn't have spread - or, excuse me. Yeah, you couldn't have, um, zone defenses in basketball. Uh, until relatively recently. Um, I don't fully know but I know that you had to have a man And I assume that you're creating around the paint. Other than that, I know that, uh... I know that, um, there was a coach who ran it... - uh, that was really famous. - Uh, and maybe it was Phil Jackson. - Um... - Yes! And, uh, and... If I'm being honest, So, I don't know. You clearly did not know You know what I mean? The guy? The jumping man, Michael Jackson? There is a Michael Jordan/Michael Jackson - Oh, really? Where, like, um... Where Michael Jordan teachers and Michael Jackson teaches - And neither of them are good at it. - Um, I - Here's a photo of what it is. Wait, there is a triangle in the paint! - Mmhmm. Also, they just drew triangles They didn't make it a triangle. Um, I just Googled &quot;triangle defense.&quot; - But what I do know is - if your team is triangles. It's actually a combination - Mm. Yeah, there was... yeah. But Phil Jackson is the one who came up with it There you go. I knew a lot of - The big dance. We're coming towards the end. - Were basketball shorts long or short in the '70s and '80s? (sighs) See, that... The issue is that they're called &quot;shorts.&quot; - You know? The bias is kinda... First of all, it's relative to the player. If it's a shorter player, they're pants. You know? Long shorts would be pants. For Muggsy Bogues, - It was just pants. The '70s is especially challenging, very, very early basketball players with kind of hilariously short shorts, - a la, like, volleyball shorts. However, long, uh, dancing long pants, MC Hammer-style basketball shorts - would make sense to me as well. I'm gonna go short, and I'll tell you for why. I believe when you showed me a video featuring the triangle defense, - with - The pick and roll with Scottie Pippen... - Nope. - His friend. No, they hung out. - Oh, OK. I see. Yes. Scottie Pippen was on the Bulls. - What's his name? - He's so white. - Famous white guy. so much of the white, - in that video from the past. - His, uh - not a raven, but - - Larry Bird. - Michael Jordan! - Yeah. - Give him a break. - Oh, hell yeah. And they both have You know what doesn't help? is how long his socks are. Larry Bird has elected to, like, Like, they're starting below the calf, and it is... Man, there's real estate - I tell you what. - [JARVIS] They're so moisturized. during this time, Converse was the exclusive shoe of the NBA. You could not wear any other shoe. And we all know how - fun it is to play in Converse. - It was illegal to have padding. I can't even stand To Jordan's credit, though, in the early 2000s, - the shorts were so long. They were - like, So, there's an interesting thing in shorts. I'll say. - Where they are so short - - This is like late '70s, early '80s. Then towards, uh... In the '90s, they start getting 2000s, it's like, &quot;Whoa, - &quot;You're wearing baggy pants.&quot; - in how long they are. And then, around 20 - like, recently, 2019, I would say, they started getting shorter and now I think we're at the shortest they'll be, and they're gonna get longer again. - Just 'cause of the cycles of style. And that's Anastasia's Shorts Theory. That's true. How does that - Jarvis, name seven of LeBron's - most notable career records. OK, most points. He's got that. - Uh, most points all-time. - Longest shorts. Um... OK, so he's played for so long But the thing is, I know he doesn't have 'cause that's a John Stockton record. - Uh... Yeah, but... but the thing is, I'm like, - &quot;What are his records?&quot; It's like... The most notable ones. Uh, maybe, like, most games won in a career? I don't know. Uh, Most hair. - Definitely not. - Uh... - Um... so, maybe that's two. Uh... Most games played - is maybe not one, but I know that LeBron's over the course of his career. Uh, maybe most minutes played, because he's high usage rate, 'cause a lot of people have, like, long careers, but they become and LeBron has been Uh, so maybe most career starts. Um, these are not notable, but - Is that if you're in the Yeah, like you're in the starting five. Uh... uh... Uh, so what goes hand in hand Um, probably something like most... - 30-point games, or something like that. You know how Kobe has - most missed shots, or something? [JORDAN] That's rough. - Just 'cause he takes a lot of them. - It's very ungenerous framing. one of those - oh, wait! That's right. Wait. Most finals losses. Wait. Maybe that's not true, actually. Wait, LeBron does have - sounds negative. - but it's actually a positive. I don't know. I'm out of ideas. Oh. I'm giving it to you, 'cause I can't name all of them. Like, if you look at all of his accolades from high school and NBA and even, um, the Olympics and stuff, - like playing for our national team, it's too much. But here's All-time leading scorer. - You got that. - Oh, OK. - but you said 30. But I should've - yeah, OK. Uh, most all - - Mm. Top five all-time in points. OK, yeah. Four MVP awards. All-time playoff - oh, Um... Youngest player to reach to reach every I had the right thinking, - but I didn't select the right things. But, uh, OK. Congrats on that, LeBron. Oh, yeah, shoutouts to LeBron. - Come to the pod anytime. - We hope. Yeah. That'd be so strange. - We are talking hair transplants. - for being here.&quot; - &quot;Fuck!&quot; He walks out. OK, next question. Which basketball player are you told you look alike a lot? Hint: he fucks. Why'd you say that Italian-style? - &quot;You look a-like a lot.&quot; Why you lookin' so much... 'Ey, this guy's looking a little bit, uh, he's a little bit like - Ohhhh! That's the name! - He does. Oh! Look at how short those shorts are! That's too short. - That's too short for life. - Tell me if that's not Jordan to a T. That's me - Jacked Jordan. There's one where he's, uh, I think it's in college, where he's dead to camera and he has, like, kinda my teeth from And weirdly, he's kinda - Oh! Hold on. I've never seen Jordan's dad Can you type in &quot;daddy,&quot; please? - My little dad. and his arms and - Like, his arms are so long - and his muscles are so big. It's wild. What if I got huge arms - OK. Would you agree to get an outfit like this and take a photo? - Too much side-ass. People complain about side-ass, Just you wait. - Or the '60s. - OK. - Are you ready? - That means either of us can take it? So, just shout it out when you know. - Oh. rode a jet ski on SpongeBob? David Hasselhoff. - Kinda true. - Jet ski on SpongeBob. - &quot;Current,&quot; so... I mean, I feel like the only people - LeBron, or... - Oh, OK. - I was shocked. It had to be him begging to be on, rather than them asking him, - in my opinion. Is it a player I would know? - Maybe not. Aw, cute! Oh, you know what? So, so - (all laughing) That's actually one of - &quot;He did a big dunk.&quot; They started doing this weird thing where they would put, um, Nickelodeon characters into games while you watch them, and there's one where Patrick dunks, - and then he mean-mugs. &quot;What?&quot; [ANASTASIA] &quot;I've never Yeah, what happened? You changed, man. - Yeah. - Um... He is on the Lakers right now. - Right now, on the Lakers. - Anthony Davis? - What?! In his dad's suit. I didn't realize it would be and not like a cartoon! Man, that looks like - What?! - and for some reason I couldn't find it. Man, dude, riding a jet ski - in a suit is the coolest. or something that you &quot;I'm trying to find - I had a dream in 1998 - that Anthony Davis was riding a jet ski.&quot; &quot;I'm developing the It's not there yet.&quot; - &quot;Here's an example of...&quot; Surprisingly, Jordan won. - He knows more about basketball. - Shoutout. is what really pulled me And the fact that I bet and then I found a point in the couch. - You did find a point in the couch. just for, you know... - Just for... - &quot;My mood.&quot; when we were looking at the &quot;I KNOW WHO THE LOGO IS.&quot; I wanted to be like, &quot;Jerry West!&quot; I, genuinely very sincerely, when you brought up the shoe question, there's a part of me like, &quot;All right. Should I be confident?&quot; &quot;I'm worried.&quot; 'Cause I've felt this and been so wrong about really basic shit, like &quot;What's your address?&quot; They ask, &quot;What year were you born?&quot; I'm sorry. I'm under pressure. I mean, same. There've been times where and another person comes up to us I can't remember their name. - Yeah. That happened to me. I was on a... How much of this can I say? This is fine. I was, uh, getting coffee with a date. It was just a little coffee date. First meeting of someone. - Mamma mia, juicy. walks into the cafe. And so I say hi to Evan, but then and I'm like, &quot;And their name is...?&quot; No, I didn't forget their name, but - There's a panic. - I'm like, &quot;I hope this is right.&quot; - Yeah. &quot;Michael Jordan,&quot; and they're like, - &quot;Fuck!&quot; being like, &quot;This is... - &quot;Liiiiisa.&quot; Yeah. &quot;Je - Jessica!&quot; &quot;What is this? There's something on the... - It's 12:00 p.m. Yeah, &quot;What is the...? There's so many &quot;I call her my little pally.&quot; Yeah. &quot;She's got a name, but I think it's more important It's really nice of you to say - Oh, yeah. It was you. - That you forget his name regularly. &quot;Geordi,&quot; that's what we call him - When I'm wearing sunglasses. &quot;Going into Geordi's La Forge.&quot; I'm melting a sword. No, seriously, I've not - and it meant a lot that you said that. And that you didn't say it about Jarvis - Right, no, for sure. - Uh, we're not old friends. He's not my little pally. And don't I know it. - Thank you for preparing a game. - Thanks for letting me win. You're just going to the chair. - She's sprinting. She's attacking Jacob. Thank you, Anastasia, for joining us. - I think it's very fun. - The game, so I can hang. - and Jordan plays for 120 hours. If you try and talk to me, [ANASTASIA] He's gaming silently I put up one of those signs you see &quot;Danger: Gaming in progress.&quot; So, today, our main topic, I wanted to talk about something that... I failed to make a video about. I went to go record a Gold on two things, actually, and the other you will see in Sad Boyz: Nightz, hosted by us immediately The one I wanted to talk about today is &quot;hoe math.&quot; It's the two funniest things It's two, like, not but &quot;hoe math&quot;? That sounds like a name from the '30s. - Homath! Yeah. My two sons, Hogarth and Homath. And Pimply. Um, this is so funny. Also, I love that he's using - the &quot;you wouldn't steal a car&quot; font. &quot;You wouldn't download a car.&quot; &quot;You wouldn't download a car,&quot; yeah. So, this... This is like a... a TikTok account that we found where... it's like Which is already a very cool, Yeah. Normally, I'm totally cool with that. Not insane and dangerous way of thinking. But he stitches, um, these women who are talking explains &quot;why they're wrong&quot; by using his own homegrown infographics that he drew himself Dude, literally the way the Riddler thinks. - [JARVIS] Yeah. &quot;To prove that Gotham will fall.&quot; And so the reason... The reason that I... couldn't figure out how to is because there was I needed, like, help. - That's why I've brought you here today. There's one thing I know. It's math. And that's why I've brought you ho today. Also, I don't... I don't like saying the word &quot;ho&quot; I'm only really using it - in the context of this TikTok. The name of this TikTok account, but just know that, like, that's why we're saying it. Um, and yeah. I don't even know what the consensus Yeah, it's just no fun. You don't wanna... I feel like it's in - uh, using the B-word to refer to women. Anastasia, thoughts? - [ANASTASIA] Always. not because I was like, - &quot;Resident woman checking in?&quot; &quot;Let's check the rules.&quot; [ANASTASIA] &quot;You're a ho. [ANASTASIA] I think it's very slut-shamey. - who cares, like, if someone has lots of sex? But it's like these people It's like the concept of it. - Yeah, a woman saying something. [ANASTASIA] So I just think it's, uh, a bad word that... [ANASTASIA] And I, also? - Yeah. I don't even like the gardening implement. - Not the one I use. And I know I'm wrong. I'm curious about the one I... all three of these are incredible. What's toilet paper...? But maybe we can, um... Where do you see toilet paper? - Isn't that what they're pointing to? - Yeah, &quot;SWORD.&quot; for, um, Hogarth? &quot;Charts and diagrams on hoes, etc.,&quot; - which is an insane thing to write. - Very normal behavior here. That's how you know it's - straightforward, rational. and I've seen him say in the replies, He's like, &quot;I've gotta correct them.&quot; Anastasia's shaking her head. [ANASTASIA] It's just so arrogant. - Mmhmm. - Actually, come through. I don't wanna do, like, Yeah. &quot;Checking in to beep corner?&quot; They forced me to stay in that corner. There's no chair. - Yeah, I'm sitting on the ground. No, I'm just kidding. Um... yeah, I... Jarvis and I looked at this, um, trying to make a video out of it, - but it was just too hard. and has worked with me for many years, and is behind the scenes on, like, everything... (French accent) Jarvis. - Le Jarvis. - you're wrong. - And they're doing math. - &quot;I'm a math expert.&quot; Jarv math. So, yeah, we were looking at this and, um, this guy is just like A real interesting gentleman. So, he takes women who say things about relationships - on TikTok and other platforms. - &quot;Women talking!&quot; Um, and... and stitches, uh, with them to explain what they're saying, because they're not tell their own feelings. - They can't explain how they feel about something themselves. He has to tell them they're wrong. - Well, they should've drawn some charts. They won't know math. OK, so let's start with &quot;SWORD,&quot; because I haven't seen that one. [WOMAN] All we want is for somebody to do this. [@HOE_MATH] I've been widely criticized for including the words &quot;dark triad&quot; - in my relationship - I mean, I don't know specifically but I'll criticize him for being a nerd. &quot;I've been... Far and wide - for my use of the dark triad.&quot; Um, OK, first of all, the issue is we don't get enough context not unlike what we're doing right now. But we don't get enough context before he chimes in, so... The &quot;all women want is just for a guy - that's a little Ren faire horny posting. - Is that the...? I think, um, first of all, she's wrong for saying &quot;all women want is,&quot; - True. I don't think women in general would say, &quot;I want someone to lift Yeah, I think that's true, 'cause And I've never thought it I identify as a woman &quot;Where's your sword? &quot;Fellas.&quot; &quot;Fellas, what's stopping you - from swording me into my throat?&quot; That's 'cause you don't No, and I never have. Yeah, if she had said then I think it - &quot;All m'ladies want...&quot; Um, but then, uh, but then I think he's wrong for being like, I think what he's gonna say is - which, what is the dark triad? It's the three types of magic. [@HOE_MATH] It's not in the new version. [@HOE_MATH] But what I do mean - Can we go back to the dark triad? OK. &quot;Dark triad: narcissism, psychopathy, Machiavellianism.&quot; Nerd! - Yeah. - What? - Is this a thing that...? - that he's previously gestured to. I think - (all laughing) I think, honestly, syllables are a way of manosphere guys verifying bullshit they're saying. - Right, as many syllables as you can add. which what they're really talking about &quot;Telling me to stop DMing them So, I think what he's saying is women want a narcissistic, psychopathic, Machiavellian dude lording over them - The Joker. - With a sword, yeah. [@HOE_MATH] But what I do mean [@HOE_MATH] As always, I will let [ANASTASIA] &quot;Like always.&quot; - [@HOE_MATH] That sounds dangerous. Oh, it's... She's speaking kinda lightly. Yeah. She's being cheeky. It's... come on, man. &quot;That seems dangerous.&quot; - Come on. That is bad faith, brother. - She feels like she's in character. It's a joke! This is crazy. So, and... OK, let's keep watching this, and then I... [@HOE_MATH] Slaughtering her people? - and boys were mean. Well, actually, [@HOE_MATH] That's stupid. He does this thing where he... accepts something is true that was not in the argument. - It's so dumb, dude. Like he's introducing an argument that is not being made to argue against. - Right. - This might as well be fictional. &quot;But I thought women were nice - &quot;Popular!&quot; - to have your people slaughtered!&quot; The man slaughtered them. That is mean. I didn't think about how a man Is having your people slaughtered mean? That's not really on you, is it? Uh, yeah, it was kinda rude of you It's very mean of the man. - OK. and you're stupid if you believe it. [@HOE_MATH] The way it actually works on the right side of your meanness. [@HOE_MATH] On my old chart, because I thought it was clear enough. On - You thought it was clear enough? That proves that you live - Yeah. - Yeah. knows what 'dark triad' means. Yeah. &quot;When I put 'dark triad' in a tiny That feels like a clue. &quot;In the most cluttered and messy chart in the world, with little drawings, The style of these drawings, for walking home safely from middle school. Like, how to cross the road. - &quot;Don't forget to read!&quot; or whatever. Yeah, &quot;Don't forget to read. Reading can be good - Um, so... One of the things I love about this guy is that he - You can tell that his passion - is in making the charts. - Yeah. and refer to the different versions as if we know what the fuck He's like, &quot;And this is something that I've since added in V3.&quot; It is so transparently like a, um, &quot;Since we're talking about it, - Here's some shit I worked on.&quot; box of Crayola colored pencils for this, &quot;Since we're on it, Here's some music I made or whatever, Why does he bold some of the letters? I think he messed up - Yeah. He starts with an E, and he goes, - &quot;Eonfidence.&quot; - That K is capitalized. &quot;Nobody meSS with me.&quot; - Like a snake. &quot;Sssss!&quot; Yeah. &quot;I always get my way. Oh, it's such bullshit, man. He's just - This is, like, almost... Like, there's a 5% sincerity The thing is that, if you've had and a community outside of you know what she's referencing. - It's a little bit of poking light fun. It's also like... this is &quot;I thought women wanted to be progressive, - Yeah. &quot;She is in a period costume.&quot; And is he ever going to acknowledge that? Also, I know for a fact that he, um, looks at comedy videos and considers them to be real, takes them at face value, doesn't understand the comedy in them, because Jacob's friend, who is a comedian, he responded to one of her videos. - Oh, Jesus. - She's making comedy videos. And he responds to her - is what all women in the world want. women aren't allowed to be... - funny online. - Women aren't funny. - I don't know if you knew this, Anastasia. Um, women are a monolith. And this girl in Ren faire clothes, - is a perfect representation of all women. There's plenty... The way that, like, any kind of cultural oppression works is that it also Stockholm-syndromes a lot of people into perpetuating Like, it is... (stammering) There is no And if he wants to work hard enough, &quot;Yeah, I actually genuinely like it He's just finding - It happens that he It feels wrong to call it a joke, - It's like to a general sensation. But, like... Sit - &quot;That seems dangerous.&quot; - It didn't mean a real sword! could also be retroactively applied but the issue is he has an audience of people who, if you read the comments, are genuinely like, &quot;Wow, - And I think it could be very harmful. We don't have the term &quot;math&quot; in ours, and we're not falsely, very specific &quot;data science.&quot; I did make some charts. - I'm just gonna grab. Uh, yeah. So, I've got my TI-84, uh, Silver Edition here. - He's writing &quot;boobs.&quot; - Now he's writing &quot;hello.&quot; - Wait, is that an e-mail? Looks like an e-mail from your doctor. - What the hell? Um, I, uh... The thing is, he does make jokes. He has a dry voice, but he'll, every once And you could argue, you know, that he's doing comedy as well, and his little stupid doodles But, like Jarvis said, there are people in the comments - on a graph what I've always believed!&quot; It's what I mean. It's people watching, like those kids that came up to &quot;Yeah, kill all women! Yay!&quot; And then he was like, &quot;Um, Yeah. &quot;I'm actually Andy Kaufman.&quot; - &quot;Yeah, I killed all women for the bit.&quot; - &quot;They said they wanted a sword.&quot; &quot;Oh my god, judge, &quot;It was a fake sword.&quot; &quot;I was in period clothes.&quot; - Um... - Yeah, let's check out the math. [@HOE_MATH] On the new chart, into competence and confidence, and I split that up into light and dark. [@HOE_MATH] Dark includes &quot;I always get what I want,&quot; and - [@HOE_MATH] Women want - &quot;Dark masculinity&quot;? That is the most soy shit. &quot;Nobody better mess with me! &quot;You can mess with my friends, but if you come after my family, &quot;I'm competent!&quot; That's one of those - you know &quot;somebody goes after me,&quot; and it's and he's just like, &quot;Whatever.&quot; And then once it kicks in, and then he turns into a wolf - (growls) - Yeah, exactly. - Bmmmm! that you can, like, gain in Diablo. - Yeah. - Dark Masculinity gives you 15%+ to axes. trick their brains into working out more, - Yeah. and this guy's harnessed it for evil. To dark graphs. - All right. [@HOE_MATH] ...with men Ignore that for now. Pause. There's... It could have a watermark that says &quot;joke.&quot; - Yeah, right? - This is insane. And if it wasn't obvious enough, - Yeah. on, uh, BookTok, - Mmhmm. Right, sure, yeah. Actually, I'll talk about it. Uh - Take a Yeah, hold on. - Yeahhh, sorry. Um, I get recommended a lot of, like, - romance BookTok stuff on TikTok, and I'm not - I do occasionally read romances, but I'm not into BookTok because it's, like, too crazy. - Right. And so I'll get recommended &quot;This is my favorite part &quot;He held me down against my will,&quot; - and it's really dark stuff. And I just wanna say, just because someone is... does, you know, reads romance books with that stuff in it or does cosplay or LARPs or even makes jokes about - they actually want it in real life. Like, if you - I mean, if you don't fuck, you don't understand the nuances of it, and there is a, like, Imagine he hears somebody, and he's like, &quot;So, now what I'm learning is all women want a doctor, - Yeah. - Yeah. - a step-sibling porno, - and you think, like, &quot;Oh, he wants to just That's not necessarily true. - It's like fantasy. types in, like, &quot;Sibling?&quot; It's like such a silly thing to minimize people, - who are very complex beings, into such a... - Into a chart? - Into math. people are infinitely complex, and so it's funny for him to create &quot;No, that doesn't represent of human relationships. ...V2!&quot; - Instead of going, &quot;I cannot get this all into one chart,&quot; it's simply the chart is He's like, &quot;Now I must make boxes.&quot; - We haven't gotten there yet. but he does do that. Are you guys familiar at all with that new Daily Wire movie, Lady Ballers? - Mmhmm. I mean, I've heard of it. it's a wacky comedy, which is not off to a great foot, than the surrounding Daily Wire community, 'cause every time they start joking It's like, &quot;The LGBTQ is making me mad!&quot; They wanted to make the topic being, in this wacky movie, a bunch of guys join women's so they can win. You know, it's as trite - [ANASTASIA] Yeah. the joke as it's framed discriminating against trans people, but they have so little insight it just becomes about - That's like a lot of transphobia, sadly, - is also just hating on women. originally, before it became a comedy... is because they wanted to make And were frustrated to discover it doesn't happen anywhere in the world, 'cause of course it doesn't. That's like this, where it's like, &quot;OK, I need to find she wants to be killed with a sword. Um... OK, well it's not in real life. - I guess I'll find an obvious joke.&quot; Somebody talking about kink. &quot;Oh, - How interesting.&quot; [@HOE_MATH] What she means is, &quot;Be strong, prove it, and then let me get behind you.&quot; That's not... Literally, all she's describing is, like, &quot;I'm horny for this sort of roleplay.&quot; - A thing from movies and books. That's it. Yeah, it's a thing that's been Does he know she's not from a village? - Like, she's not from the 1500s? - She literally does not have a village - that she - that was just slaughtered. The seven kingdoms. He was like, - &quot;Hold on. Interesting.&quot; He does later reference the Dothraki - as an example of people. A book written by a man, - totally fictional group of people. - Ugh. Yeah. He has a lot of difficulty He's like, &quot;What is real life?&quot; Because he probably - He lives in his little drawings. - &quot;That's me, by the way.&quot; - &quot;That's my wife.&quot; We're skateboarding together [@HOE_MATH] In other words, &quot;I could, - but I won't.&quot; - Look! I think if you showed somebody they would never guess &quot;climate change&quot; - is the thing in the middle. &quot;OK, burglars are the worst.&quot; Wait, why is accountability mean? - I don't know. - A cancel-culture thing? Well, honestly, it might be Like, &quot;They say I can't believe he thinks Yeah, I don't understand Hopefully we can find that one. I don't understand why - It's mean, dude. - OK, yeah. - Also, burglars! - Not thieves or criminals. - Like the Hamburglar. Maybe he thinks you're mean - Oh, that is so mean. - (emotionally) &quot;It's not real!&quot; - &quot;Stop it!&quot; they like nice guys, but actually, they hate the ozone. Did you know that? - Yeah. Pretty hypocritical, actually. They want a guy who's like, &quot;Fuck it. Chlorofluorocarbons into the atmosphere.&quot; - Just spraying it. They want a CEO of a company that... - pollutes the environment. - Oh, BP! I do wanna watch maybe - and then go into his chart description. Um, so we may have to but we'll still get it in. [@HOE_MATH] ...have [@HOE_MATH] Being a good guy [@HOE_MATH] It means giving her stuff, like competence, perhaps with a sword. - It's so literal. I mean, is he against competence? I think we've maybe... I've seen this one from Radiant Amy. And so I know it will at least - Yeah, let's just watch that one. [@RADIANTAMY] Attractive women [@HOE_MATH] I wonder who told her. [@HOE_MATH] It's never been a good idea to - Here are a couple versions - Mmhmm. [@HOE_MATH] ...Old Testament. [@HOE_MATH] &quot;It is better than to share a house with a quarrelsome I mean, yeah. It's a thing, again, if you take it extremely literally and don't kind of then you could say, &quot;Yeah, let me put you on a scale.&quot; But, I mean... - Yeah. I mean - - first of all. Like, I think she... There's things that she says - that I totally disagree with. But I think what she's talking about is when, um... you're in an abusive relationship where someone feels insecure, so they're taking it out - just feeling secure in the relationship. to be the source of a lot of I mean, the only complaints - Like the phrasing is bad. I think it's conflating it with &quot;can't afford me&quot; or, like, - &quot;Above me, beneath me.&quot; That sort of stuff is, um.. Like, it's probably shortcuts but I think that it is a trigger which is like the rankings, So that's why I don't agree with but the core of someone who's insecure... dating someone who's insecure it is highly likely they will project is pretty well understood. Yeah. Again, he had to find one where some of the language or the kind of language &quot;Afford.&quot; For example, It's kind of - that's the term But making the exact same argument, if she just said, &quot;Someone that or feels like they can't None of it is coming from her. And also, those guys - [ANASTASIA] Mmhmm. [@HOE_MATH] So what because all women are 10s - OK. Not what she said. - I guess I didn't hear that. I guess maybe, uh - also, this is what she said about Right. Right, because he did bring in a random What does that even This lady's being quarrelsome. I don't wanna be sexist, Also, if you're living your life by, uh, you know, 200 AD standards or whatever, - Right. We should say, um, he cited it being 6,000 years old - as a credited, like, thumbs-up for it. OK, so this is really old, Also, don't people... There's, like, disagreements about the - - Whatever. It's fine. Wait, he's saying the Bible's...? Jesus was... well, OK. I guess the Old Testament - was written at some point. he states this as fact, - where it's like accepted fact. All right, let's keep going. [@HOE_MATH] ...all women are 10s, because that's a [@HOE_MATH] And pretty much no men are 10s, except for the ones [@HOE_MATH] So if you do date her, then you OK, she didn't say any of this. Is this a reaction to a different clip? - Yeah. No. It's like all of his - Yeah. my hands are too small, - and she hates my hair. who was more attractive than me, - Why won't you love me? and I'm handsome and have She's saying she doesn't like She thinks it's unimpressive. And she thinks if a guy Why have I heard that so much?! But if he's great at drawing, it's a [JARVIS] Yeah. Yeah, when he says, &quot;except for actual 10s, because &quot;every woman is a 10 It does rely on you, kind of like how putting stake into the Bible, treating that objectively, like, &quot;Hey, this requires you - to believe in and use a scale. No, it's not what she was saying, because most people Every one of his videos, he starts with... &quot;Since we know all these facts,&quot; and it's like, those are not facts. - What are you talking about? - Yeah. It's like, &quot;Because we know and it's like, &quot;Hold on. Wait. &quot;That means she doesn't like Like, &quot;Huh?&quot; [@HOE_MATH] And that makes you an abuser. Whoa. (honking) [@HOE_MATH] It means she's all start making accusations, ruin your life, and then [@HOE_MATH] And it doesn't stop there. Can you pause? Does he think that women want to, like, chew up and spit out men, and don't wanna be in loving relationships? - I think that's literally it. that men are food. Yum, yum, yum. Yeah, of course. You know, that's... 'Cause, you know, Careful, he'll take you literally. - &quot;Ahhh!&quot; it's Attack on Titan, episode 1. &quot;According to them, all men are huge - and exist in the nape of their neck.&quot; - &quot;All little guys have sword, I guess.&quot; I mean, yeah, obviously, is that women are never educated and try and make them reducing their personal What they hear is, &quot;Women are black widows that will deliberately kill you, - because it's funny?&quot; &quot;Chew up a man, destroy him, make him an abuser.&quot; OK, it didn't sound That sounds like something he did. The way he throws around abuse is so weird. It's so dangerous, too, because it's like, that is actually a part of abuse, is making the person being abused think that they deserve it; Does he think abuse That's the only way He's using abuse like it's a legal term - that those wily women use. &quot;Careful with women, 'cause they might - label you as an abuser.&quot; - Yeah. Well, I mean, first of all... - men are abused in relationships as well. Like, all... genders can be abused. So - that sounds horrible, but it's true. - Yeah. into, like, a man/woman thing is fucked up. - It's a relationship thing. And it is really dangerous to say &quot;abuser&quot; sarcastically like it's not a real thing. Whereas he is convinced Yeah. Oh, I really do wanna find the clip We found it; I just don't know - where it is now. Anyway, let's keep watching this. [@HOE_MATH] And it doesn't stop there. [@HOE_MATH] Here she is, being the table. [@HOE_MATH] Everything she says in all of [@HOE_MATH] She's pretty committed. [@HOE_MATH] Others are - He zooms into these charts - like we recognize them. He zooms into the chart like we go, &quot;Ah, yes! Chart #2, V2, - Women are Evil, part 1, section 3.&quot; the Institute of Relationship - It's like, no. Where did you get this? - &quot;Chadology.&quot; even the fact that he just... Yeah, pulling up the chart, I'm overwhelmed. What are you doing? - It just plays into - It plays into the fact educating or challenging dogwhistling to the people - that will sub and do that comment: &quot;The fact that you tag them is amazing.&quot; - His reply is, &quot;They need to know.&quot; I'm doing a public good.&quot; - Need to know what, dude? - I don't think you need to try. It's like, yeah, stay single. - If you believe this shit... - Stay single. - for people who are single. Like, &quot;Not me, letting and steal all my life force.&quot; &quot;They'll take everything - that I don't have.&quot; [@HOE_MATH] I think we all know - We all know. as a means to an end,&quot; so find agrees that it matches yours, Think I would put her Remember, the Lord is watching. Why?! - He's framed it like a serial killer. That is what serial killers do - write big and then they have The fact that it's one that he drew, - Poorly. - Poor Jesus. No, I will rag on his art. It looks shitty, man. Why aren't you better at this? You know, he also is like... He mentions, like, &quot;Oh, - But he loves his drawings. - He loves them so much. It's like how Ben Shapiro 'cause he's from Hollywood, And he was an aspiring screenwriter, and he got pushed out of it and then instead he, like, Oh, people like when I grift Oh, yeah, I always wanted Also, the #2 on the men's scale Yeah. Can we, uh... - OK, I think I - I do like the idea that if That's really the only thing. This kinda reminds me of the, um... We looked at a Reddit that was like - - Truerateme. - Yeah. - where it's like, oh, so everyone is a 5. They just want the whole world Well, 10s are an unrealistic - But also, they don't exist. - to define people? Uh, it would make it harder - Oh, touche. you take to your first date and, uh, break down the diagram, - and if they align - - Yeah. - &quot;It's funny you say that, because&quot; - - so you're a 4.&quot; Um, OK. Will you hit the X or &quot;escape,&quot; and I think I may know It might be in &quot;positive toxicity.&quot; - Season 8, I think? - Oh my god. I think you're right. Uh, no. &quot;Positive toxic.&quot; Yeah. [MAN] Why do girls actually like [@HOE_MATH] This guy's [@HOE_MATH] When girls - (laughing) OK. - The guy was yelling. Also, as he moved the chart, I saw it said &quot;GOT.&quot; - Oh, yeah, no, we're getting into it. Yeah, you're excited. Also, let's look... Uh, let's look at the comments real quick. &quot;I'm tired, boss.&quot; &quot;Blud is a pro;&quot; &quot;Lichrally.&quot; - &quot;Lichrally.&quot; &quot;Hmm.&quot; What was that last one? &quot;Hmm, do you think when that she'll push boundaries to get you to act in a more exciting way?&quot; &quot;Yes. She starts fights.&quot; That's like, um, that's like you're being a bad boyfriend, and then she tries to give you and it's like, &quot;You're starting a fight. It's like, &quot;No, I'm unhappy! Hon, I worked a long day, and all I ask is that you do some dishes. - Just help me with some dishes. - What is this really about? Yeah, why are you - Do I need to hold a sword to your throat? He holds a sword to her throat. - &quot;You are threatening me.&quot; &quot;Babe, can you please consult the chart - [JARVIS] Yeah. means you're being mean.&quot; &quot;And these three X'es mean 'horny.' - OK, we can hit play. [@HOE_MATH] ...angry as he should be. you cannot respond like this. with positive toxicity. Let me explain. - Oxymoron. - I'm losing it. This is tapping [suggested] text, - just over and over. [@HOE_MATH] So, on zones, - into good-guy stuff and bad-boy stuff. Yeah. Don't get it twisted. Zones V1 was something - That didn't make it to the light of day. Because he's really into right angles. - These are all true things, by the way. - What the hell? But I wanted to show Jordan this. [@HOE_MATH] ...good-guy stuff. she's not going to get excited. [@HOE_MATH] So, if you're only [@HOE_MATH] And if you are a little [@HOE_MATH] Now, being a bad boy doesn't [@HOE_MATH] It means doing badass things. [@HOE_MATH] In Game of Thrones, where the dragon princess is with and they're having &quot;Desert people or whatever&quot;? He's holding back Dothraki. - He knows. He does. Dude, &quot;desert people,&quot; - way worse way to say it. - Really bad. A fictional people. Also, I'm pretty sure - I read the books. Yeah, idiot! - Yeah, they have horses. You know, a desert horse? Or are there desert people No, not that, uh... - the dragon princess, that Khaleesi got with. &quot;The dragon princess.&quot; [@HOE_MATH] And there's one desert girl [@HOE_MATH] And then there's a desert guy, - and so I'm going to take it.&quot; - &quot;I, uh, yeah. That's sick, man.&quot; - I believe that's the exact line. [@HOE_MATH] And then there's I would like to have this girl. And then one of them cuts what does the desert girl think [@HOE_MATH] She goes, &quot;That was awesome. [@HOE_MATH] I also went over this And lion behavior is exactly I'm glad he did go over it &quot;I'm just not seeing the connection - between these fictional guys, these fictional desert people, But when you explain it with lions, - now I see the connections. - Perfect. - You're a lion. Well, appeal to nature, obviously. I'm always doing lion stuff. You know that. - You're more of a desert man. - OK. Yeah, his lion drawings are... - balding. He's just whipping them out temporarily. All right, continue. [@HOE_MATH] ...and challenges another, like, &quot;Who's it gonna - enjoying watching these guys face off. - Probably. 'cause the other one's gonna be dead. &quot;Who's it gonna be? she said in English at the lion. - &quot;I'm a dark triangle,&quot; or whatever. The triangle defense. [@HOE_MATH] ...enjoying [@HOE_MATH] And then they like the one - [@HOE_MATH] So when you get a girl - he really thinks - There's no shot that - No. 'Cause he's navigating around it - but we didn't make the chart. And it's not an intuitive chart. - &quot;Hey, so what's that?&quot; - or whatever? &quot;Oh, that's a fire truck, - and that's my dad.&quot; I do think it works, though. When you're not really paying attention; and he's tapping a pen, you're like, - &quot;Oh, that is evidence.&quot; - &quot;Ah, data!&quot; and it makes you think he's smart. But then you're like, us pausing it and really - &quot;Hold up. What's this little doodle?&quot; - &quot;What's XXX?&quot; - Also, is... (sighs) you can't see the face next to XXX, - but is it her having an orgasm? - No! because there's no relationship. This only goes one way. It doesn't go up - - It only goes down, which is - don't tell him he's bad at charts. - That's all he has. I take it back. It actually [@HOE_MATH] ...and you only do nice [@HOE_MATH] You have to do [@HOE_MATH] And you have to do it [@HOE_MATH] So it's unfortunate (laughing) Yeah. What do you mean? - &quot;Do not murder.&quot; have to figure out some - without killing someone in cold blood.&quot; &quot;These women won't let us murder.&quot; - &quot;Rats.&quot; I know you guys have said this before, but the funniest thing about all of this is the bar is so low, and these guys make it seem so much harder - than it actually is. - Yeah. - anecdotal evidence from their experience? It is always, &quot;Hey, you know, I watched five episodes of Fargo, and I realized that Like, just some bullshit, because the way that they're is media analysis, 'cause that's - pretty much all redpill shit. the real life experience, then you have to grab it - Yeah! That's true. the modern woman's psyche. - There is a... I don't even - Scott Snyder's run of Batman, and I guess what they love is rodent men.&quot; - Yeah, true. I read them all; loved them. But even I'm gonna say George R. R. Martin And there's stuff in there, like, just even about female anatomy, &quot;Oh, he does not understand Right. He's like, &quot;He caressed - George, that's not what that is. and her beautiful merli - magina, the - below - on the shin.&quot; There is a part where he talks about and the water going inside her. - That is not how that works. - &quot;She felt&quot; - That's what being pregnant is. You inflate. Um, then why does your water break - when you have a baby? - No more water for you! and have sex with the ocean. - Yeah. - (exhales) and her vagina filled with helium.&quot; - She floated away. - &quot;Come back!&quot; I hate women forever.&quot; She ate that candy from Wonka - and flew into the sky. - who got really big. - Will do. [@HOE_MATH] They're not toxic. [@HOE_MATH] You don't have but you do have to make her excited. [@HOE_MATH] So you're only doing and you're wondering why [@HOE_MATH] We have a harder task [@HOE_MATH] Women from previous times he's nice, and that's all I need,&quot; but today's women need to feel excitement. - I don't think he knows that for sure. Previous generations sometimes didn't choose their husband. Yeah, and it's a socially - There's like a social expectation - to be married and not rock the boat. - Right. - of women. You never met these people! It's like all those guys that are like, &quot;I remember the good old days,&quot; of a guy driving to work, like, &quot;Nothing like the first Or like, &quot;Picnic with my family,&quot; and... - ad companies invented that, so that people would buy them. - It's not photography. is the olden times? - Back when the Bible was written. - the Renaissance faire is modern times. - It was filmed back then. Also, the dynamic that's never gonna You have to pick a lane, dude, between &quot;women have these disgusting, sickening expectations, and, &quot;actually, this is what they want.&quot; You don't get both, 'cause either they're lying to you - and they all want the same thing, or it's the Ren faire girl, - and she does want the thing that's bad. Either they're biologically evil, or they actually like the oppo - It just doesn't work. Like, if he finds one person that's a tradwife, if he watched a tradwife TikTok, he's just gonna go, - Like, so who are you mad at? Who are you pissed off at? - would be other men lying to you. It doesn't - it does not What's the, like, medicalizing He's just going, &quot;I don't like women, - &quot;Must be numbers.&quot; - Yeah, &quot;I hate right angles.&quot; [@HOE_MATH] Today's women [@HOE_MATH] You can't just - but it helps to make her feel like you would if you had to. [@HOE_MATH] There's a whole to make her feel like [@HOE_MATH] Be powerful; if you go out and someone looks at her, [@HOE_MATH] You don't have to do anything - - What? - &quot;Make sure someone knows she's yours.&quot; - I know what he's trying to say, but yeah. - It's very funny. - Mmhmm, yeah. They want overprotective. - They want helicopter boyfriends. - either because they feel they're expected to say that, or there is a kink element to, &quot;Hey.&quot; Some people wanna be put on a leash. and go to dog trainer school. It's just a isolated It's kinda like wearing Like, the history of why it's a white - It's like purity and virginal. someone believes in that - if they wear a white wedding dress. - And then it's over. - It's dumb. I mean, whatever. All of these... Whether you're a toxic man when you put stuff like this on TikTok, you are distilling human beings, and, you know, contain multitudes, into this doodle. Into this cool art. - Yeah. because not all people - can be put into a doodle like this. I'd say most people don't like it The only people who - are like the flowchart-ass redpillers who, like, actually just - and say the same things. - do a video about this guy. What if your kink - Ooh. - He would find his perfect match! - &quot;Maybe I'm a little devil. I don't know.&quot; &quot;XXX, baby.&quot; [@HOE_MATH] ...but she should feel [@HOE_MATH] You cannot just and go, &quot;Wasn't that nice?&quot; Yeah, you can't be boring. - That's a different thing. &quot;You can't just stay at home Yeah, you can't just - That's not fun. and ignore her and We could either watch him or we can jump to &quot;Zones V3, the most useful My other favorite thing about this guy - Oh, yeah. No, we won't. It's 25 minutes long, and it's just him - [JACOB] Last night, I did watch it all. You are committed to this podcast, - and I love it. - His eyes are red from crying. - after we watch a bit of it. - [JACOB] Uh, no. - [JACOB] No. Yeah, from Ho-vard? All right, let's jump in. &quot;Zones V3, the most useful Historically, there's other [@HOE_MATH] I make diagrams - to explain psychology and dating. [@HOE_MATH] As a part of my called &quot;Self-Maximize,&quot; I have created [@HOE_MATH] Here it is. my viral, iconic relationship map that lays out what men and what women are looking for [@HOE_MATH] As you can see, and more fleshed out, easier to read, - No! &quot;Easier to read, and easier to understand, as you can tell by There's three times the word count. - Yeah. [@HOE_MATH] Here are the differences [@HOE_MATH] The old version to demonstrate how men think about women - &quot;Other men +5&quot;? What the hell is...? What is this D&amp;D-ass chart? &quot;Dude, the thing I am sick of is judging your looks and personality. Anyway, here's my chart about Oh, OK. So, &quot;What men are looking for,&quot; they're looking for looks and personality. Uh, but then the minuses are &quot;other men&quot; - and &quot;cabinet.&quot; I honestly, you know, we've dated. We've spent time I think every time I've climbed they're judgmental. Every time someone I'm dating has seen the cabinet - Sure. - Chief of staff. If I stay 'round somebody's place, Of course, I get in the cabinet. I hide. I do not come back. Uh, sometimes I'll go over to, you know, someone I'm seeing's place, - and I run away. With six men, and then I, um, throw my glass down Six men + cabinet equals, um, you're looking for the president. Yeah. Yeah, you're looking for He's got looks; he's got a personality. All women want is a rich senator. Um... [JACOB] I will say, probably the first, is explaining the ways in which Which is why I think it's... Which is why I actually because him explaining shows how much he just wants to draw - his little doodles. That's why Anastasia and I - at some point, changed it to be more boxy, - 'cause he likes right angles. [@HOE_MATH] Of course, who measure men along two axes - instead of one. If you're a woman - - The cabinet galaxy. [@HOE_MATH] ...women are safe with you and supported by you. &quot;Ahhh, these broads!&quot; [@HOE_MATH] ...for lust and love, and these arrows showing that the and the bad-boy attachment - is measured here. What is the ghost? - What does that mean? She's gonna ghost you - and low on bad-boy. - she's gonna suck you into a big, uh... and high on bad-boy, then you're Prince Charming. In what way is Prince Charming a bad boy? - Yeah! How is he a bad boy? - He killed a dragon. but still really high on good guy, but if you're too much of a good guy - then you're in the friend zone. But they're wrong for, uh - Shit, sorry. I need to make Um, I just wanna throw out... We always talk about how people like this, they don't have a sense of community; they don't have women in their lives to give them perspective outside of your assessment People with no real connections outside of content consumption He doesn't know any men. - [ANASTASIA] Yeah. so he has this graph saying, I know a lot of fucking people - don't just want &quot;keepers.&quot; - That's wrong. Like, we've talked a lot about but he's also doing a disservice to men. - And himself, dude. - than he makes them out to be. There is often - &quot;Men are simple. - and that's it!&quot; &quot;They want a cabinet, - Yeah. &quot;They want 5 men in their cabinet.&quot; Well, guess what. What if you want - Preach. Preach, sister. is just one friend in his cabinet. [@HOE_MATH] For men, I tried to show but that love grows as we like you more. [@HOE_MATH] That's pretty much the whole - The new version - &quot;Don't tell anybody about this.&quot; Oh, dude, this is a guy That happens, for sure. He really just wanted - Yeah. - Oh, I see. I see. And then zero is the worst - Oh, this is minus. and then apparently there's something &quot;Bonus (barely matters).&quot; - Where is that? &quot;Conveniences, possessions.&quot; - &quot;Origin.&quot; I like - Yeah. &quot;I'm from Planet Sector 496.&quot; - Yeah. - she was bitten by a spider.&quot; And then &quot;Quirks, cabinet.&quot; What does &quot;cabinet&quot; mean? I don't get it. &quot;Bonus (barely matters).&quot; Doesn't even - Doesn't matter if I have a cabinet. it's the special things that you like - that maybe other guys don't like? - &quot;Quirks.&quot; I don't know, yeah. It's not as easy to read - as he makes it out to seem. This is a real Babe Ruth on this one. I could totally be wrong. But it is a motif I've heard There is, like, the trope of, uh, uh, going home with a guy and you realize - Yes. of guys not taking care of themselves Maybe - I feel like a very where a girl made fun of and he's like, &quot;You know how they're &quot;All women want is a cabinet.&quot; Um, OK. So here at the bottom, he says, &quot;Use this chart to figure out and what you can improve about yourself. Then select the available type So you're selecting, like, &quot;husband zone&quot; or &quot;situationship (mid)&quot;? Initiating mid relationship! - Yeah. to be a sugar daddy&quot;? - Yeah. [@HOE_MATH] Let's go over I added text to explain [@HOE_MATH] Second of all, which are my favorite. NINETY-DEGREE ANGLES! - (all laughing) &quot;I drawed a ghost again, &quot;I organized things with 90deg angles, Not because it is... - It looks nice, or... It's easier to parse. - It's how most charts are. because he thought we wanted that. - He didn't want it. He wanted them 'cause they're his favorite. They are rules. That really &quot;And then in the corner, and if you flick through it because he is my favorite Avenger.&quot; Yeah. All right. [@HOE_MATH] ...was a little bit sloppy, and like how this is a speech bubble and this is a thought bubble - Oh. Probably because the speech bubble Yeah. That is - Also, are those things we say or don't say? Right, 'cause when you have a bad date, you wanna sweep her under the rug You think that. You go, You know what people have never That they are not interested - That's never happened. And also, no one's ever said, but actually is and is just saying it Like, &quot;Oh, yeah, I wouldn't mind but actually I'm looking for love.&quot; I mean, that's another huge problem on this view of relationships, is thinking that people - that they're hiding something secret. And that's not... - how you do a healthy relationship! Having an argument with your partner and I mean, I agree that some people but that doesn't make What makes for a healthy relationship and trusting each other, that what - Mmhmm. &quot;I, uh, want you to lift - Right. &quot;I don't like this, when you - they don't like it! &quot;You're lying to me! I saw a video - &quot;In a costume.&quot; who was looking at a ghost!&quot; &quot;What, you think I'm dead?&quot; It looks like she - wants to have sex with the ghost. You know? There's a lot of people - I like the idea of calling - The fact that it's a ghost and does kinda suggest it's hell. - &quot;This is where your spirit goes.&quot; - &quot;The not-people hell.&quot; You know, it's like - which is the issue, it's like... I think that it would be much better served - by just giving this advice, you know? But it's so... It just doesn't - I mean, look at There is so much crossover with the scale. How is &quot;competence&quot; Because it includes &quot;social skills, - likability, and reputation.&quot; Is that outside the realm of How is income not part of investment? What the fuck are you - Yeah. but not one that is supportive.&quot; &quot;I want a guy with muscles.&quot; Which, also, that's such a simplistic thing about, you know, women, right? Obviously, not everything but imagine if you took the wrong things &quot;I need to become powerful, strong; get taller, I guess, Hygiene. Hygiene! - Hygiene's on there. Actually, I'd say that's on my list, probably, and every That's like a... - I mean... - Is &quot;pheromones&quot; - oh my god. &quot;Chemistry.&quot; &quot;Pheromones.&quot; I just - yeah. I... I get what he's trying to do. I wonder if... Like... I mean, it's - It also sounds like he thinks he's helping. - That's what a lot of these guys... - That's what's sad about it. I think there's two contingents I've been getting big into I really slept on that. But on his second channel, how the myth that the YouTube algorithm, are putting people into the - [ANASTASIA] Yeah. What's happening is - [ANASTASIA] Yeah. through their experiences, that's pressured them to be like that, terminology and politics is informed, because they don't know. You find something like this; you're like, these terms. Jordan Peterson I'll parrot his bullshit statistics.&quot; And there is, like... That's one side of the camp, And then I would assume, honestly, if you... you may have friends of the sex or gender you're attracted to. You may have a larger community. But if you struggle socially in general and you're bad at reading cues, - which is a common thing... then... not a lot of people are giving you charts - from the more reasonable side. We couldn't make a chart, - because we think that's insane. But, shit, man. If I was struggling especially the people I was attracted to, and then somebody gave me rules... - Yeah. You know, what a relief. - Yeah. I want rules and guidelines to live by, 'cause god, wouldn't life be so much easier if someone just told me, - But that's not how life works. - Instead, you're quarrelsome. If you kill other desert - - &quot;Desert people&quot;? - Yeah. If you kill the other desert guy, - Right. but actually she doesn't like that, but she's telling the truth - [JARVIS] Hell yeah, brother. - He draws a picture of Thor or whatever. It's... It is actually simple. It's not easy, but it is actually simple. And the simplest thing is communicate... Understand yourself and who you are, - and communicate that to the other person. And then they do the same to you. - And that is relationships. And you see if it works! - Well said. go your separate ways It's... it is very simple. It's not easy to do, because obviously. - I like the phrasing, &quot;simple, not easy.&quot; Um, you didn't include No, yeah, I forgot that part, - and right angles; um, boxes - That is not simple or easy, Jarvis helped me - when we were and I moved into a new place, um, I actually was dating a guy at the time, and I called him and I said, but it really requires 2 people. And he said no. I said, &quot;Are you busy?&quot; and - That's what they hate! It's the cabinet. &quot;Hey, are you busy right now?&quot; 'cause And he came over I didn't even know that happened. But you know what that is? which we will be talking about - You couldn't have set us up better. - one of the all-time best transitions. Um, uh - thank you so much, What a treat to have you - but in front of the camera this time. And, uh, we end every episode of Sad Boyz How about we say the beginning part, and you know what to say. - We love you. - Boom! [WOMAN] Can you peel this orange for me? (Irish accent) &quot;He's my soulmate.&quot; Mate, he can barely peel it. - What is wrong with that orange?! Only the true king of King Arthur's court Myself or Lancelot are your true... (outro music) The Jarvis wine that I got as a joke. (laughing) Whoooooooooa! Oh, fuck.