Translator: Queenie Lee In one part of an ancient Plato was concerned with the idea of where does your knowledge come from, And in this particular dialogue, what Plato decided to do and in the form of a conversation try to work through this idea I wasn't there, but I think the conversation (Laughter) &quot;Hey, you, slave boy!&quot; &quot;Do you know anything &quot;No, I'm just a slave boy.&quot; And then, Socrates decided trying to pull out successfully the fact that he was able to prove a pretty rigorous formula and it didn't seem like much. But when it was all done, &quot;A-ha! I told you so.&quot; He had it in him all along. All he needed was to have that it was in his soul - it was in his soul all along. That's pretty deep stuff (Laughter) that somehow, all the knowledge, is right there, and all we need to have So let's tell a couple of stories having to do with my background is there something that's in you When I was in fifth grade, Sister Vincentia (Laughter) had a task for us, with finding as many ways I'll say it was 100; And what you would do is find a way What you would do and then you'd find another way, You put that on a strip of paper, you form a chain - like a chain that you would put on and we're supposed to take these links I did this for a little while, but my brain, being what my brain is, So instead of forming a link as such, Now, what I was doing at the time, I thought it was just having that was a 5th-grade math task. What I didn't know I was doing was making something I don't know about but I didn't have any at that time either. All I knew was the other stuff is boring. (Laughter) So what I'd like to do for a minute here is literally, and then in something that Plato was saying because you may or may not I'm not really sure. But what's interesting is that if you cut it all the way around - I get there, wait for it, wait for it - interestingly, though cut all the way through, And there's a lot more to but unlike this lucky slave boy, I'm not going to ask you but I'll say to you Consider what might happen then put the ends together. Consider what would happen I'll leave that for you. (Laughter) So as I got a little bit older and started forgetting because again, I didn't know I started reading a little bit in the recreational mathematics and I found a bit more about Mobius strips (Laughter) - Oh, trust me, I have (Laughter) and I found some art by Escher But I kind of put them aside, because again, there were Dungeons &amp; Dragons (Laughter) But there was a second experience - One thing: I guess I should preface by saying when I was bored, Probably the same way, that was a little something like this. As I work through this doodle, you might be saying one of two things: For as it unravels, you might be finding something I know I did. (Laughter) Oh, I couldn't stop, I mean ... (Laughter) What I found was that it was like falling down That's awesome. And my mind sort of went that way. I've come to find out later in college - I was handed an issue on the cover of College Mathematics (Laughter) &quot;You gotta be kidding me!&quot; So I've been doing something perhaps exciting, (Laughter) But I had no idea what it was about. So I looked at the article, but I got to talking with professors and trying to learn a little bit more that helped me kind of come out and into talking with some real But here's what I found out: that doodle is actually It's called an Archimedean Spiral. I urge you to go take a look at but let me show you If you were to connect the dots in a very small incremental pattern, this function will form what you might call a spiral. If, however, you decide not to connect the dots voila! Again, I say awesome (Laughter) but I could understand it So with that behind me, it's I got the thinking a little bit more about where is this really housed? I guess it was in me, on the fact that whatever knowledge is just sitting in there. Because the questions and I think one of the roles we have - and I'm learning that is you've got to have the conversation. What you need so you can harness what's in there, because the questions aren't And yet, with that said, that we've each got and we just don't know what it is. We're waiting for that beauty, And I think what we need to do and not try to say, I guess if you're going you'd say, &quot;I think maybe it's both.&quot; (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause)