(bright tones) - [Falcon] Bosses are, of It's not supposed to be an easy ride, and some difficult bosses We're not talking about those today. We're talking about bosses and then you feel awesome You feel like patting popping the bubbly, and dumping 'cause you're the only person playing. There's not like a team or They do that in team It doesn't matter. Hi, folks, it's Falcon, 10 hard bosses that make Starting off with Doom Doom 2, great game. Last boss, something all right. They call it the Icon of Sin, but it's really just a texture, like a flat wall texture that causes enemies to spawn. Even among FPS games, which often have pretty So when it becomes obvious Doom Eternal is gonna bring him back, it was pretty certain it like there was really You know, now the Icon and he is, oof, he's difficult. Also, the first version of for the wrong reasons, in a much more satisfying way. He just goes nuts on you, slamming the area with his giant fists, (gunshots) summoning fireballs to and of course, summoning monsters and making things even more chaotic. (explosions) There's so much going on at once, and the music is just at 100, so when you start and exposing the meat and bone underneath, it's really satisfying. You might end up using up all but man, it feels good when At number nine, it's Wo This is easily the centerpiece We've talked a little bit but the devs clearly put a At about the halfway darker reimagining of Romance you run into the legendary warrior Lu Bu. This game is all about boss fights, and here you have to take this guy who, in most Dynasty Warriors games, is able to clear out entire and we're talking about a guy one of the greatest warriors of all time, like, not just in this game. So it shouldn't be a big almost unfairly tough, even. This guy has so many that it puts nearly every other (sword strikes landing) He's tougher than most bosses he might be the hardest Just absolutely relentless fighter. He's constantly mixing close range, and it's just, And then after a while, he which makes him even harder to beat. (Lu Bu whistling) (intense music) And drags the fight on even longer. Like, this guy 100% lives and when I finally managed to beat him after dozens of attempts, I admitting this, I stood up, shouted, and disturbed everyone else in the house. At number eight is Metroid The Metroid Prime remaster to have a rematch with this guy, and it was a humbling The Omega Pirate is the an area that's already way tougher than anything that came before it, and this guy is just as tough. Depending on who you ask, he may be the toughest fight in the game. Definitely up there with the final battle in terms of challenge. A few things make this He can absorb and deflect which I happen to like beam He's got multiple high-damaging attacks. He's immune to damage, so that The only way to beat him is to destroy all of his armor plating. Once that's cleared, he summons a bunch of space pirates that can only be damaged (weapons firing) Yes, you have to use that you couldn't use on the Omega Pirate. It's, yeah. Then he appears over one it starts regenerating his armor. This is the only part where to him, and if you're too busy fighting with all the newly-summoned a likely occurrence, they then you have to go of destroying his damn armor again to get another shot at hurting him. There's a few tricks with this guy that can make him a lot easier. Super missiles do wonders against him, but almost every other boss doesn't require much thought to take down. The game kind of gets players accustomed to just brute forcing things, on the Omega Pirate. Metroid Prime is not the hardest game, but this is where it really And once you send them At number seven is Dark Souls the epic final boss of May not be the toughest boss in the game. That honor definitely but anyone who manages to beat a sigh of relief. Beating Slave Knight If you played the game, you know exactly what I'm talking about. It's the epic location, the insane opening that I can't even begin to describe. - What, still here? - [Falcon] And the amazing to make this fight feel to the Dark Souls story. This guy is just like your character, a wretch from the very and scrambled their way to on a seemingly impossible quest. I mean, he's literally He's an old man dressed in rags. That does not mean he is easy though. This guy fights like a madman, with almost an overwhelming alternating between magic mixes you up and keeps you moving. (attacks roaring) At least the arena you It makes it a lot easier but it is not an easy fight. This is one of those Souls It is epic, the music is amazing, and the boss itself is and when you come out it's just hype. At number six is Metal Gear Platinum Games may well be of the final boss fight. They have mastered this craft of creating a satisfying final battle, almost every single one of with the last boss. Even the lesser games have They're not always super hard though, at least if you're playing on standard. Metal Gear Rising: Oof, this guy is the total package. He's hard as balls, entertaining as hell, and has one of the best of gaming ever, period. (dramatic music) Damn, this game is good. Like in all seriousness, hype as hell battle that maybe even piss you off a like a freaking monster when you win. The final battle against you've learned up to this point. You can't just attack him You've gotta get effective some really tricky timed slashes, and by the end of the fight, he's just going completely nuts. You're most likely to get killed, and he does so much if you're not stocked or going for, like, a no items run, the back half of the fight is just brutal. It's so good when you finally win though. It's an all-around badass final battle, one of the best easily, and it At number five is God of As far as the God of War bonus bosses go, it could have easily gone to either the Valkyrie Queen or Gna from God of War Ragnarok. There's an argument that but I gotta go with Sigrun for this one. She's the original bonus boss and she doesn't have as from Ragnarok but she's still crazy tough. We're not just talking The presentation and buildup for a hype boss fight, and in my opinion, Sigrun's just feels a little more epic. I mean, Gna is just standing there while Sigrun bursts out of a portal to attack you out of nowhere. (blows landing) That's how you start a bonus boss. This completely optional boss can be found either by beating every in the game, all of which on their own, but Sigrun is That means she has all she can pull 'em out at and she's also just this No matter how tough you are, Kratos' attacks are so you have to be extremely aggressive but also reactive enough It's a fight that's both frantic and long, and that is an exhausting (characters grunting) (attacks landing) It does feel just so good when you finally manage to beat it though. At number four is Cuphead's the Devil. Pretty much every boss in Cuphead is gonna make you shout They're tough, but they're also, like, these kind of clever that you have to figure out. I really love Cuphead's bosses but obviously you gotta There's an extra layer of satisfaction knowing you didn't just beat any old boss. You beat the final boss in one of the toughest games out there. And you know, it could be King Dice, is a tougher fight. When I beat that guy, I just let a long sigh If you've seen that fight, you know how much of a nightmare can be. The Devil, on the other that also happens to and that gives it an edge for this video though. It's not a long fight, it and some of the most in the entire game is in this one. (silly music) By the end, you're jumping struggling to stay alive, and it just feels like you've in the most hype way possible. I know I keep using the but like I really have to say, those types of times where but not necessarily the hardest. It just has to give you and hype is absolutely the The Devil in Cuphead, like, what other word At number three is Xenoblade JRPG's obviously love their but this guy takes it to the next level. It's one of the most epic This fight can take more and I'm not exaggerating, an hour might be on the It's completely nuts. And guess what? If you die, you have to all over again. There's no mid-battle checkpoints. Normally that would disqualify but the presentation, the music, everything about this battle pushes it to near legendary status. (game sound effects) It's hard to explain the entire plot of the game, but everything has been and they really pull out all the stops to make it seem like the fate It's cinematic as hell while at the same time, which for people struggling with this fight, but for the lucky ones who the entire time, like by it is just an incredible feeling when you finally manage to put At number two is Isshin, You can't have a list like this without bringing this guy up. In a game full of amazing as both the hardest and Like it's not even a competition, but when he appears, it's kind of weird, 'cause you might not even By the end of the fight, you're I know I did. The first time you fight this guy, you're probably just how am I supposed to do this? What is happening? Then you fight him again, Fight him again, you do and again and again until you finally get this guy's attacks down. (swords striking) It's a fight where, sure, might do well from the who aren't as skilled can It's extremely tough no matter It's easily one of From but the fight is over and the load times are so to get back into the fight and try again. The moment where you finally beat him is just bombastic also. Every boss in the game normally to put down, but Isshin's a worthy ending to one of the most brutal but satisfying bosses of all time. And finally, at number one, It's Virgil. Again, duh. It was all leading up to this fight. Devil May Cry 5, at least for but it managed to go with one of the finest bosses in Capcom's long and storied history, and you gotta remember, Capcom Megaman, that's what that's about. The final battle against you could possibly want or even a Capcom game. It feels huge, it's crazy exciting, and it's really challenging. (attacks landing) Compared to something like a Soul's boss, at least on standard difficulty, he's not the hardest thing ever, especially if you're not too to fully revive your health after you die, but he's by far the and in my opinion, one in the entire series. He's so fast, aggressive, He can counter almost and he's got a ton of attacks that he's constantly switching between. On harder difficulties, it another player rather than AI. He'll pull off combos and than exploitable AI. It's honestly kind of on tougher difficulties. It feels really good to as Dante and as Nero. Devil May Cry will probably It's hard to imagine it won't. But if this is where the series ends, it's good to know it And guess what, I got Pizza Face from Pizza we haven't talked about So this guy probably sounds but I'm not joking when in Pizza Tower is one of the difficult battles ever. It's three, well, technically four forms of escalating insanity, and it's also just fun as hell. You wouldn't expect something that frankly looks like a joke, but if I'm being honest I'm not just talking about Like, if you think Donkey and Sonic the Hedgehog this game is seriously, like, awesome. And this final boss is the So if you like your with incredible music and Pizza Tower is the place to go, especially concerning It's such a fresh and this Final Boss is, I mean, but I'm doing the Italian, that's a-good a-pizza And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like. If you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable we thank you very much I'm Falcon, you could follow We'll see you next time