Welcome to another episode of The 8-Bit Guy. Today we're going to be talking about BASIC, While BASIC was technically invented in 1964 college, these computers were not at all what It really wasn't until Bill Gates and Paul company known as Microsoft, brought BASIC that it really started to take off and in When you look at all of these computers here, in hardware, software, and even the user interface. But they all had one thing in common, they BASIC was the great equalizer of the home Early personal computers were not inter-compatible. You couldn't take a binary program from 64 or an Atari 8-Bit system or a TI99/4a, Except when it came to BASIC. BASIC was taught in elementary how to use It was taught in schools. And because BASIC was the same language across learned on one system and use that on another One of my favorite shows, Futurama, often internal CPU is a 6502, the same CPU used can see BASIC line numbering schemes on everything principle of the Church of Robotology where then you move to line 20, which says you will Also Kif creates his holoshed programs in So I'm not going to teach you how to code pretty boring. But I do want to point out, for example, how That's because it uses line numbers separated In BASIC, you start every line of code with And we were always taught to start with 10, And the reason for this is that the computers or word processors built in. And while generally you could go back and need to insert something between two lines. So by leaving space, you could type a line into the code. OK, so I want to show you this book, 101 BASIC This came out in 1978, at the very beginning Now, the book is historically significant over a million copies. Well, my first exposure to BASIC, at all, I was around 7 or 8 years old and the local kids in the children's' book section and BASIC computer games, microcomputer edition. 101 great games to play on your home computer, This was released in October of 1978 and they lying around in the library in the early 90s, And it had all of these really cool looking And yeah, it's just all type-in stuff. And all of these commands, I just put them a single one of them worked. But, of course, that is because, now I know It didn't have Microsoft BASIC running in So, I just recently picked this book up and that the most of the games in here were targeted Apple II or some of the early CP/M machines So, I decided to try typing in one of these I look through the book and decided on Hangman. It was actually one of the shorter games to I used my Apple II since it is one of the I set a timer so I could see how long this And so, I went to town typing this thing in. I remember doing this as a kid and it took I thought maybe I could do it faster as an However, this stuff isn't like typing spoken There are lots of symbols and numbers and would think. The time just kept dragging on. At last I was finally done... and the timer Holy cow! 47 minutes. Let's list the program just so we can see Well, let's try it out. Looks like they were expecting an 80 column Anyway, let's see if it works. Let's try E. Hey, I got a letter. Notice that it redraws the entire screen layout That's because BASIC doesn't have any around on the screen. So these games had to be treated like they Ahh yes, a syntax error. I would have actually been surprised if I So let's examine line 520 and see what the Ahhh.. I see what I did. let me re-type that line. OK, so the game seemed to be working now. So, one of the things I noticed about this have any graphics. They're all text-based games. Now, that seems rather boring in the 21st But in 1978 that really wasn't much of a didn't have graphics anyway. And even when computers like the Apple II capabilities, the commands were proprietary So you still couldn't publish a book that different computers without being text-based So none of these games are likely to be considered think what this book represents is more a was like back in the late 1970s. I mean, you couldn't just walk into a Kmart right off the shelf. That didn't really happen until the early So when computer manufacturers came out with really anticipated that most users would be would be typing them in from a book or magazine, So yeah, the big thing back in the day is it would have two to three programs in it So there would be like 10 pages of listings you'd just sit there and go and type it Because at the end, you would have a sweet You know, paper was cheaper than disks back Oh, how times have changed. So I remember waiting every month for the It would arrive, I would read it cover to it to my school's computer lab which had key in the BASIC programs. I could look at this and kind of see, wow This is how programs work. Obviously in a very BASIC sense. But still. One of the great things about keying in BASIC teach you BASIC as you're doing it. The BASIC language is relatively simple. You have variables, you can do operations There are occasional commands that control putting shapes on screen, etc. As you type in a program, you can't help So, someone sent me these recently. This is a fascinating idea for me, and something seen until recent years. These are called micro-adventures. These are little novels, novellas, and you novel. But, when you get to certain points in here, "Oh man. Something happened! To see what happens next, you type in a BASIC Well, some programs aren't going to work. It's got a little list here like IBM, Apple, But for the most part the programs work. You see this one has all of the check boxes. And yeah, if you have the right machine, you a little bit of interactivity and graphics It's just a fascinating idea. Clint sent me some pictures from the book, of these in to see what they do. I decided to use my Radio Shack Color Computer, Actually, it's probably easier to type it hold the book open while I type. So it appears to be some kind of a program It won't really do me a lot of good unless That just goes to show you how popular BASIC This is number 6, number 7, I don't know it was a thing. Another book I want to show you is this old Now, it took me forever to find one of these that you see this. Most of these books, I think were destroyed don't actually own these books and eventually destroys them or returns them back to the But for me, every math textbook I had in school of high school, had BASIC in it. We usually had some Apple II computers in one or two of them. And after you learned how to do the math in and try using the concept you just learned You can see this book was first issued to So this was probably one of the last books By the early 1980s nearly every personal computer to using Microsoft BASIC. And while today when we hear the term Microsoft, But, even back then almost every personal in BASIC. If you crack open an old Apple computer, like You'll see, inside the Apple, a chip labelled Dogs and cats sleeping together! Mass hysteria! Just because they had the most popular BASIC. There was a fun story on the Commodore 64. How did that work? He licensed, Jack Tramiel licensed the BASIC didn't change it for all of the successive cost stretched over all of the millions of People make a lot of fun of Microsoft. They did back in the day, they still do. But it is pretty hard to deny them their achievement For what they packed into the ROM that was it's pretty amazing. Now, you would think that BASIC would be universal running Microsoft BASIC,right? Unfortunately all the commands for graphics, sound and disk drive operation were still proprietary But yeah, the difference in dialects is interesting. It's like learning different accents for You know, you can learn southern American American English, and then English English, But it wasn't just the language that was next, each machine had its own unique personality. Basic was more than just a language. It was, in essence, the entire operating system As an example, on the Commodore 64, if you could put the game in the drive, but you still up. Of course, most games had instructions on For many Commodore users, the command LOAD they actually knew. And they didn't even know what it meant, but other machines used entirely different The thing with BASIC is that is also, there's There's different interpretations between that threw me off at first. Also the screen editor itself is very different. For example, in BASIC, the APPLE II gives And for whatever reason, if you mess up, don't Instead of correcting your mistake, it will No, you have to use the cursor keys to back Commodore BASIC, on the other hand has a really The backspace works like you would expect. And if you want, it's easy to cursor back Although the cursor keys are weird, there So this one goes up and down, and this one You have to use the shift key in combination It's weird, but you do get used to it after On the Apple, if you want to move around the press secret letters to move it around. One of the neat features that all Commodore So, whenever you typed a quotation, such as special symbols to record any commands you So for example, I can press the home key type three spaces, change the color to something Now when I run the program, it will remember That was always really helpful. So, Commodore BASIC had a great screen editor but it had one Achilles' heal, especially best selling machines they had. Which is, they had no graphics, and no sound, They did have load and save but that was it. While machines like the Apple II could just had a bizarre method where you had to load drive. The disk drive itself actually did all of and then sent it back to the computer. So now you could LIST the program and see The problem with this was if you were in the just lost it because now it is overwritten This was largely solved by additional cartridges Besides increasing the disk speed tremendously, typing a dollar sign to get a directory without Also you could get a menu with all sorts of This cartridge was so popular, every serious But that still didn't help with the graphics According to the manual, if you wanted to kinds of complicated POKE and PEEK statements graphics chip. It was slow, and really difficult to understand So if you wanted to draw a sine wave on the A few lines of BASIC using the built in graphics you. But the VIC-20 or C64 was a nightmare. However, you could get cartridges like the a variety of commands. And on the C64, Simon's Basic was quite So, speaking of cartridges, the original Atari which was actually very unusual during this If you just booted up the computer, it went It's basically a useless text editor that However, they did give you a cartridge with You stick in a BASIC cartridge right here The right one is never used for anything. Else, if you turned it on you'd be in no So if you were playing a game that was larger, it shadowed 8K of memory so the BASIC cartridge So larger machine language games couldn't So you'd actually have to take the BASIC Later machines like the 800Xl and all of the built into ROM. And that was cool, because it was right there! You could turn on the computer and it was You could type in programs without having You didn't have to boot into something separate appealing to me. In fact, not only was it instantly available, That's right, you could actually type commands So if you wanted to do a mathematical calculation, and it would print the result out. You could even do loops and stuff without I mean, it was approachable, right? I mean the thing about BASIC was that it was It was very much a logical thing were you out what things like POKEs and stuff were, You could just read it. Or at least I could. It made a lot of sense to me and I liked that OK, so I've shown a bunch of horribly bland to work on just about any computer that runs But what could you do if you wanted to write BASIC, how could you make it better? Well, Steve Wozniak was one of the first to Not only did he write his own version of Basic, designed for making games. But in 1976 he wrote his own game, little He said it took him 30 minutes to write it. And that's really the power of BASIC, right You can write stuff very quickly. The thing about BASIC, the beginners all purpose It's kind of like, the best modern day analogy Python is a language where every command is of compiling it, it's like oh, if that equals It does it all real-time. Now, today's modern computers, they're a lack of speed. So BASIC is easy to learn, and its fast to But it did have severe limitations on these speed. But, you know, I think that's one of the me coming back and writing stuff in BASIC. Because, it's interesting to see what I For example, a few years ago I decided to 64. It's not a terribly long program. However, it did take me an entire day to write The first version I wrote only took about playable. So I spent the rest of the day figuring out In the end, it worked. So now you can play Tetris in BASIC. There were some other commercial games that and another one called Telengard. I wanted to give you a way you could see the Language. Something you could see that would really So, I'm going to write a little BASIC program writing directly to screen memory. So you can see it takes it a few seconds to Now I'm going to write the same program Dang, it's so fast that you can't even However, it was possible to speed up BASIC a faster computer. One option was using a compiler. For example, the Blitz compiler would take It's not exactly converting it to machine in-between stage. And you can see it's a good bit faster than In fact, after compiling my Tetris game, it's But don't be fooled. These compiled BASIC programs, they're about but they're still a fraction of the speed But, on the bright side, you do get the convenience and it gives you a little extra speed. I like BASIC. It's nothing overwhelmingly powerfully fast, In fact, there's so many limitations with even to go back to now. Anytime that I get a new old computer, I try What do I miss about BASIC? I mean, that's like having a Ferrari and your Ford Escort, besides lower payments. Well here's one thing, it was really easy I miss just being able to turn on your computer I miss that direct connection that BASIC gave I miss that direct connection that BASIC gave with. I think that's why nowadays I don't really It's because back in the 80s, everything screens of text, and I guess I wasn't really Because I'm like, I did my time with that. But I think younger people, they kind of miss worked. All right, so I think we have reached the a few things I want to say in closing. First of all, a big thank you to Clint from This episode was originally going to be a stuff out or at least shortening some things well you know instead of making an hour long I really thought deserved their own episode. Just as an example, I'm going to do an entire I know it seems kind of mundane, but there's does. So, I'm going to be doing an episode on that were glanced over in this episode. So don't feel like you're going to be I'll eventually cover those things. In the meantime, keep watching, I've got full time as of February of this year so hopefully Welp, see you next time!