Transcriber: Leonardo Silva Hello, everyone. I'm here to help you design your life. We're going to use Design thinking is something and in the School of Engineering and it's an innovation methodology, But I think the most interesting So that's what we're going to talk about. I want to just make sure everybody knows: Dave and I are the co-authors of the book, and he is the guy who helped me co-found So what do we do in the Life Design Lab? Well, we teach the class what you want to be when you grow up. Now, I'm going to give you Designers love reframes. How many of you hope you never grow up that drives everything you do? Raise your hand. Right! I mean, we've been talking about curiosity And so I'd like to reframe this as: we say we teach the class what you want to grow into next, as this life of yours, So, design thinking is what we teach and it's a set of mindsets, You know, we've been taught to be so skeptical realists, rationalists, but that's not very useful as a mindset something no one's ever done before. So we say you start with curiosity and you We say you reframe problems we find people are working and they have a wonderful solution So, what's the point We say radical collaboration because the answer's out That's where your experience We want to be mindful of our process. There are times in the design process and there are times when you really want prototype some things, And the other is biased action. Now, you know, I'll say that we think no plan for your life will survive (Laughter) Reality has the tendency to throw little sometimes good things, sometimes bad. So we say: just have Why? Why did we start this class? I've been in office hours for a long, I've been teaching here He was teaching over that community (Laughter) And - I'm sorry, I'm sorry, But we notice that people get stuck. People really get stuck and they don't seem to have any tools Designers get stuck all the time. I signed up to be a designer, which means I'm going to work and I get stuck and unstuck, We also noticed as we went out and talked but people in mid-career that people have a bunch of beliefs which psychologists label things they believe that are true and it holds them back. I'll give you three. First one is: &quot;What's your passion? Tell me your passion and I'll tell you Now, if you actually have you knew at two you wanted to be a doctor, you knew at seven you wanted and now you are one, that's awesome. But we're a sort of research space so we went over to the which by the way now goes up to 27 - (Laughter) and met with Bill Damon, He studied this question and it turns out have any one single We hate a methodology which says, You have a passion? When you have one, come on back It's terrible, eight out of 10 people say, So this is not an organizing principle The second one is, &quot;Well, Don't you know where you're going? If you don't know, you're late.&quot; (Laughter) Now, what are you late for, exactly? I'm not quite sure. But you know, there's a meta-narrative by 25, you're supposed maybe have gotten married When I talk to my millennial &quot;Oh, that's got to be because they can't imagine, but 30 is a long way out. But we know that now these people they are staying in a lot more dynamic and so this notion that you're late &quot;Well, you should have Dave and I don't &quot;should&quot; on anybody. In the book or in the class, We just think, &quot;Alright, Let's start from where you are. But the one we really don't like is: &quot;Are you being the best (Laughter) &quot;I mean, because you're not settling for something that's less than the best, Obviously we all Well, this implies that, one, two, that it's a linear thing, and three, it kind of comes there's an old business saying, &quot;Good is the enemy of better, and you always want to do But if there isn't one singular best, &quot;The unattainable best is the enemy because there are many, many versions all of which would result So I'm going to give you three ideas five ideas, excuse me - Five ideas from design thinking. And people who've read the book have written back to us and said, &quot;Hey, these were the most useful, they were the most helpful.&quot; And we're human-centered designers, The first one is this notion The number one reason people take is they say, &quot;You know, I want it to be purposeful, So, we looked in the positive psychology and it turns out that there's who you are, and there's what you do in the world, and if you can make a connection if you can make that a coherent story, you will experience The increase in meaning-making So we do two things. We ask people: &quot;Write a work view. Not the job you want, What's work in service of?&quot; Once you have that, 250 words, then - &quot;What's the meaning of life? What is your faith When you can connect your life view in a coherent way, you start to experience That's the idea number one. Idea number two: people get stuck and you've got to be careful but there's a class of problems that are really, really bad problems. We call them gravity problems. Essentially, they're something Now, I know you have a friend and you've been having coffee and they're stuck. They don't like their boss, there's something that they don't like. But nothing's happening, right? If Dave were here he'd say, &quot;Look, you can't solve a problem You can't solve a problem so if you've got a gravity problem and you're simply then it's just And the only thing we know to do In the design thinking chart, then you redefine the problem, then you prototype and test things, but that only works if it's a problem The first thing to do is accept and once &quot;I can't change it. You know, this is a company, the company is a family-run company and if you're not in the family, You're right, you can't! So, now you have to decide Is that a circumstance or do you need to do something else? So be really careful because they're pernicious But back to this idea of multiples, I do a little thought experiment and I say, you know, &quot;The physicists up in SLAC this multiverse thing might be real.&quot; You've heard of this, that there are one right next to each other. And say, &quot;We'll do a thought experiment. Let's say you could live and not only that, but you'd know about So, you could go back and the scientist, and the CPA, You could have all When I ask them, &quot;How many lives are you? I get answers from three to 10,000. But, you know, we've sort of done Most people think they have about 7,5 And here's the deal: you only get one. But it turns out it's not it's what you choose in life Nevertheless, we reframed this and we say, &quot;Great, there's more lives So let's go on an odyssey, And we ask people to do some design. And the &quot;ideate&quot; bubble, So we say, &quot;Let's have some ideas. We'll ideate your future, You have to ideate three.&quot; Now, there's some research that says if you start with three ideas you've got a much wider range of ideas, the ideas are more generative and they lead to better rather than just starting with one So we always do threes; We have people do three lives, We give them this little rubric. One: &quot;The thing you're doing, the thing you're doing right now, And you're going to do it for five years I mean, in design, except for one thing: we never I have been on some teams but we weren't trying to, So, thing one: your life, make it better. And also put in the bucket list stuff: you want to go to Paris, the guy with the ice thing - before it's all under water So, that's plan one: your life goes great. Plan two: I'm really sorry to tell you, that job doesn't exist anymore, We don't need you to do that anymore. Now, what are going to do? So what do you do if the thing And you know, everybody's got to make that work. And three is: what's your wild-card plan? What would you do if you didn't have You're not fabulously wealthy, And what would you do My students come in and they'll say something like, &quot;Well, what I really want to do is this, 'You didn't go to Stanford (Laughter) Because somehow, if you went to Stanford, you have to do some of the amazing things &quot;But what would you do and you didn't care what people thought? Anything from, to, 'I want to be a bartender, And people have those three plans. Now what happens when &quot;Oh my gosh, I could my three completely parallel lives Two, they rarely go become a bartender, But a lot of times, the things were things that they left behind somehow. In the business of life, And so they bring them back then they make their lives even better. Sometimes they do pivot, but mostly they just use this all the possible wonderful ways Now, you could start executing that, but in our model, the thing you do after We have met people who've quit their job It hardly ever works. You kind of have to sneak up on it, we want to set the bar really low, So when we say &quot;prototype,&quot; what we mean is a way to ask &quot;What would it be like if I tried this?&quot;, a way to expose the assumptions, &quot;Is this even the thing I want or is that just something I've got to go out so I'm going to get others involved and I'm going to sneak up on the future, because I don't if this is There's two kinds and what we call prototype conversation. You know, William Gibson, has a famous quote: &quot;The future is already here. So, there is someone He's been doing it for years, I could go he or she. Somebody else is doing All of these people are out there, They're doing what I want to do, today. And if I have a conversation with them, I just ask for their story If you buy them a cup of coffee, If I hear something We have this thing when I hear a story that's kind of like and I can identify that The other one is a prototype experience. Dave and I were working with a woman, sort of mid-career in her 40s but wanted to move from to do something more meaningful, thinking of going back to school, working with kids. But she's like, &quot;You know, I don't know, It's not going to work. And then I heard about these millennials. They're kind of mean (Laughter) What am I going to do, Bill?&quot; I said, &quot;Well, you just have It turns out we sent her and to a large lecture-hall class, and by the way, you just and you walk into a class, nobody knows. She wasn't registered, but you know, and she came back and said, I walked into the lecture hall, It was interesting, I was so interested And then I met these millennials. It turned out they're I've set up three And they think I'm interesting because So she had a felt experience, She had a felt experience So these are two ways The last idea: you want to make a good decision well. So many people make choices because they don't really know It's a hard thing, particularly in our So we have a process. Again it comes from Gather and create options. Once you get good at design you're You've got narrow those down Then, you make the choice and then of course you agonize (Laughter) All my students have what is called &quot;What if I didn't pick the right thing.&quot; Someone came into my office and said, and I said, &quot;Do you plan It's not going to happen, right?&quot; So we don't say that; we say and all these have Let me tell you about it. Once you get good at gathering you also want to make sure the serendipitous ideas. This is a guy named Tony Hsieh. He was the CEO at Zappos, But before you became an employee and the test was, &quot;Are you lucky?&quot; One, two or three: &quot;I'm not very lucky, Seven, eight, nine, ten, &quot;I'm very lucky, I'm not sure why.&quot; He wouldn't hire anybody (Laughter) I think it's probably illegal, (Laughter) but it was based on a piece of research &quot;Rate yourself from lucky to unlucky.&quot; And then they had people read 30 pages, lots of articles. And the graduate students said, &quot;Please count the number of -&quot; either headlines or photographs, &quot;And when you get the whole thing read just tell the person at the end.&quot; And if you got the Of course you all know when a graduate student tells you what the So, inside this thing 30 pages, front page, inside all the stories were &quot;If you read this, the experiment's over. People who rated themselves as unlucky 36 headlines, whatever it was, got the $ 100. People who rated themselves as lucky - 80% of the time noticed the text It's not about being lucky. It's about paying attention and keeping your peripheral vision open that those interesting that you were not expecting. So you want to get good at being lucky. Narrowing down. This is quite simple. If you have too many choices, you go into and then you have essentially no choices. Here's the experiment. You walk into a grocery store She's got a table and on the table, and you come over try the jams Six jams; about 30 people or stop and test something, and about a third That's the baseline. Next week, you walk in, 24 jams: jalapeno, strawberry, banana, Well, guess what happens? Twice as many people stop, it's so interesting. Three percent of the people buy them. (Laughter) When you have too many choices, What do you do when you have Just cross off a bunch of choices. Psychologists tells us we can't handle I'd say it's five. If you've got a bunch of choices, just pick the five and then &quot;Oh my God! What if I pick the wrong ones? Right? Well, you won't, because it's You're at the office and everybody says, &quot;Sounds great. What do you want to do? In the elevator on their way down, Then you go, &quot;No, I want pizza.&quot; (Laughter) You won't decide how you feel about That's a piece of research that's So just cross them off. If you cross off the wrong one, you'll have a feeling somewhere in your Choosing - this is about You cannot choose well if you choose This is Dan Goleman, who wrote He does a lot of research on this, There's a part of your brain, way down in the base brain, that summarizes emotional I did something, got good emotional I did something and had a little bad It summarizes all of the emotions and how your decisions were valenced The problem with that part of your brain it doesn't talk to the part There's no connection It's only connected to your GI tract So, it gives you information a &quot;gut feeling.&quot; Without that, you can't make And then the letting go and moving on. This was the hardest part for me, who is a distinguished despite the fact that he's doing And he's been studying decision-making So, you walk in another The postdoc has got five Monet prints, and you rank them from best to least, &quot;I like this one the most, number one and number five. &quot;Thank you very much, Oh, by the way, as you're I kind of screwed up and I bought So if you want to take one home Two conditions: in one case, but don't bring it back Just keep it, you can't exchange it. Second condition: I've got lots of these. If you don't like the one you picked, you can swap it back And of course everybody picks number two. We bring people back in &quot;Re-rank the stimuli. The people who were allowed to change they don't like the print, they don't like the other one anymore, In fact, they don't like the whole process and they have destroyed (Laughter) The people who were told, &quot;You pick it, love their print, they typically and think the rest of them suck. (Laughter) If you make decisions reversible, your chance of being happy So, let go and move on, And by the way, as a designer, because you're really good you're great at ideation, you're really good at prototyping to see of that world will be so you have no fear of missing out. It's just a process, a mindful process: That's how you make yourself happy. So, the five ideas: Connecting the dots to find meaning Stay away from gravity problems because reframe those to something Do three plans, never one, three ideations for any to make sure that you've covered not just but all the other ideas that are possible. Prototype everything in your life And choose well; there's no point Choose well and you will find And you can do this, we know you can, because thousands Two PhD studies that demonstrated higher self-efficacy, It's a fascinating process to watch people go through this class and walk out saying, &quot;You know what? what David Kelly calls So, we know you can do it, It's simple: get curious, talk to people and try stuff, and you will design Thank you. (Applause) (Cheers)