Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, your confidence. Many people want to be more confident. We develop genuine faith in our abilities. We grow our self-esteem, and better understand want to trust ourselves to take risks, make good Confidence can take many shapes, both physical and perception of ourselves, our health, and general experience greater happiness and fulfillment. emotions and develop healthier relationships. Confidence can be a tricky thing to cultivate and It takes more than a few simple changes to your actively work toward over time. Think of building build strength gradually with consistent exercise, practice and maintenance. It may take time, but authentic sense of confidence. We spend a lot of time worrying about the mistakes, wishing we could have done things obsessing over things we can't predict or control. we may sometimes feel powerless. So how do Meditation is an easy and accessible activity It not only removes you from your busy life but you want to build confidence, let meditation a little time each day, this everyday habit 2. Be Your Own Champion criticizing themselves. The voice inside hurting their self-esteem instead of building a tremendous impact on our confidence. People who while people who are compassionate toward If you want to be a more confident person, we all need. Remind yourself what you have intelligent, and accomplished. Be your own 3. The Exercise Effect habit for developing self-confidence. It also has an equally powerful effect on your overcoming an obstacle. You're setting a goal, it. Practicing this over and over again has a self-perception. By proving to yourself that you your abilities and developing faith in yourself. regular part of your life. You don't need to work into your daily routine. Just fifteen minutes of and mind. If you're a beginner, exercising but this healthy habit can improve 4. Progress Over Perfect in competition with others. On social media, for to people we hardly know. This kind of external Instead, it can damage our self-esteem time to stop competing with others and focus on This habit is practiced by many of the most expect themselves to be the best in the world at self every day. Not only does this increase their stronger intrinsic goals. To develop confidence, we need to better are and what we find meaningful unlocks our self-confidence. The better you understand can represent yourself to the world. exploring your deeper self? Many experts recommend Journaling helps you define your values and about things that make you proud. Maybe you write most. Whatever you choose to write about, you can 6. Light Your Fire closest to their hearts. They aspire to do great it's because they forget in trying moments To confidently pursue goals of any kind, you need Take some time to define what motivates, inspires, building your community, or contributing as possible because those definitions 7. Grow Your Intuition When we have to make a decision, we spend hours We worry about the most irrational outcomes and It's because we overcomplicate things that so many into what feel like catastrophic issues. start trusting your gut. Instead of sinking into cons list, learn to use your instincts. Not only often the right ones, because they incorporate at the heart of good decision making. Many people lose confidence by holding themselves at every opportunity. When they inevitably and they lose faith in themselves. But If you want to be a more confident person, give the pursuit of perfection and embrace take risks, learn new things, and don't be reasonable standards for yourself, you can find 9. Rebuild Your Reality cannot do things even if they're well within When you don't have confidence in yourself, you before. You assume you're going to fail without These beliefs are rarely grounded in reality. self-doubt, so don't let them control your life. discover you're more capable than you thought. When we see others do great things, we sometimes feel like we're not doing enough or that we're successes because it brings attention this is a source of insecurity, but others' In fact, the successes of others can be a Watching other people succeed reminds you of more than you, let them inspire you to follow discipline, and ambition, helping you So, make a habit of genuinely celebrating or competing, find joy and inspiration in confident celebrating your own. Seeking support isn't the sign of weakness that a house. If you built a structure with no walking inside. You might be afraid that the your head. On the other hand, if you supported the in that structure with comfort and confidence. develop confidence by ourselves, but we gain for encouragement and support. They may give They may also help us by sharing valuable wisdom mistakes. It's tempting to face every problem confidence, support will only make you stronger. How do you respond to feedback? Many people When they hear differing ideas and opinions, perspectives as attacks on their values. useful things others have to say. it's essential to broaden your horizons and listen compliments, criticisms, familiar ideas, and try this. Next time someone gives you feedback, take a moment to consider what they're trying ideas are constructive. But calmly gives you more confidence in yourself. be sure to subscribe because more