Elon Musk is on track to trillionaire by 2027. Musk is the closest person The biggest driver of Elon Tesla's stock. If you look before the trading at below $50 a Now it's at $230 a share. Some people think it could they have self-driving But not all Americans plays. Wealth inequality in increased over the past 30 Federal reserve data shows grown dramatically, while has stagnated in the early The top 1% held about $4.76 nation's wealth, while the billion in equity, or 3.5% Fast forward to Q1 2020 for to nearly $46.1 trillion, while the bottom 50% held total wealth. The American system, which driven by entrepreneurs and rewarded for taking risks, everybody. While others feel that harmful to society. So talk of a trillionaire is Billions of dollars of billions of dollars of A hundred years after the What has led to the could make the first And what does it mean for economy? Elon Musk was the richest man in the He started 2020 worth about being worth around 167 2024. His net worth is billion, according to the Index. One of the reasons that Elon not only because Tesla rapidly, but also because owns is growing rapidly. Over that five year period, stock went up 1,300%. If that stock continues to his wealth, he will get to Tesla's stock rise during necessarily tied to alone. The stock of Tesla is now up move has changed plans to make a half a But this new generation of They believe that Elon Musk to stick with him as he People invest for all kinds Some invest for very short Other people invest because going to be a good one, and profits for years and years Musk is in a unique position compensated at Tesla. Elon certainly had a lot of stake in the company was out. But he has had these most recent of which was That's $50 billion in pay, company and the value of And so, in addition to existing stock, he has options that are part of We have never seen pay corporate America, where meet certain benchmarks, a And so that has actually company over time to 13%. Some say based on current 20%. So one of the things trillionaire status is that his ownership of the these massive and Neither Tesla nor SpaceX CNBC's request for comment. Usually when we think about about them owning about 3 the economy, which is quite outsized. But this magnitude difference for Whether or not it comes to a lot of things happening, value of the businesses himself. Musk made his wealth through companies he's led, such as This is a pretty typical If you look at the list of know, whether we're talking Bezos. The reason people a company and they grow And the reason that company producing something Wealthier individuals portions of their assets market, while middle income of their wealth tied up in The wealthiest 1% of all U.S. stocks, while the about 1% of all stocks as About 58% of families own directly or indirectly, such as retirement Wealth inequality is very different types of assets. And so one of the things inequality to go up, as concentration, is the stock And the stock market has But other assets, done quite well. House That tends to raise wealth distribution, which offsets happening at the top. Most Americans wealth is in than 66% of families owning The typical American. If you know, a median house 100% over the past five six wealth that's being about wealth distribution, offsetting factor. But home ownership as a main can be a double edged house values can benefit signifies decreasing house buyers. Many Americans by trading their time and is then taxed based on how On paper, the ultra as clear. We think about income as improvement in one's You and I have paychecks, how much we can spend. Musk has a gigantic even that package, only a taxable income, because other ways of getting paid taxation. Elon Musk has seen his over the past five years. What he does is he borrows equity, takes those loans And so he has millions and income that he never has to Over the past quarter changes in tax policy have to tax the rich. There are more ways to get around Those same changes are what unrealized capital gains. Capital gains are the they sell an asset, such as We should think about taxing policies like that. Many people like Musk are very substantial unrealized And the question is, do we capital gains to pass generation? Or do we impose gains at death? So I think we need to do a income while it's being And that involves changes some of these loopholes over the past quarter What assumption could be the tax code that these absurd. They got rich and spent a lot of time We have to create valuable That's why those people got code and any big change you will that change the So I would be careful It's not surprising that in theme of taxing the wealthy have to help those who have prominent, especially among Harris. So one of the is to tax what are called And so what the Harris it's not fair that because and you can borrow against taxes, whereas the teacher, normal income and they have We need to tax the ultra We need to tax the most powerful ways to President Trump and a Congress passed the 2017 The Tax Policy Center found American saved on taxes the savings was income taxpayer saved about top 1% saved about $61,000. We're going to be seeing the President Trump's tax cuts corporations that arrives That's a huge opportunity problems with our tax code. We should also think about that cause a disconnect really earning, what their they're paying in tax really earning. That's what wealth is going to grow. Elon Musk, if his wealth is a year and his income is That tells us we have a America has always had a wealth. Great wealth in also envied. And there's a political we should redistribute some who need it most. And so conflicted about Extreme levels of inequality fight against poverty. I'm inspired by the work of Supreme Court Justice Louis He's the one who said, we concentration of wealth in democracy, but we can't And I believe that's a today. So far, the desire by most has not played out in It's not played out in the And there are some that the wealthy buy the lobbyists who have fought And that may be true, but fact that if you have a tax worth $1 million or more like Harris has proposed, a don't have $1 million in So therefore I don't make more than $1 million a there, too. It's hard to themselves are so Yes. We're envious. We'd like to tax them, but too. And I admire these