Narrator: In 2013, a 489-pound tuna sold for a whopping $1.8 million. But you can buy a can of tuna fish at the grocery store for under $2. So, what's the difference? For starters, it's not the same fish. Canned tuna typically comes from albacore. They're small, grow fast, And they certainly don't weigh 489 pounds. There's only one type of tuna in the world that grows that big, bluefin tuna. And if you wanna try Derek Wilcox: We could buy tuna from Japan that we'd have to charge maybe $80 for one piece of otoro. Narrator: Derek Wilcox is a chef at Shoji, a Japanese restaurant in New York. He was trained in Japan and worked there for more than 10 years. Restaurants like Shoji or what's called kuro maguro in Japanese. They get their tuna from a including Japan's Tsukiji fish market. There are several different but bluefin is what at high-end sushi restaurants. Wilcox: Bluefin is the most sought after. Only bluefin has the intense marbling. Bluefin also, when it's aged properly, has a particular balance of flavors. Narrator: A large adult bluefin can weigh around 450 pounds or more, and the price of the fish varies based on a number of different factors. Wilcox: It completely depends but it's never cheap. A local bluefin on the east coast will run anywhere between $20 and $40 a pound. You could be paying north of $200 a pound for bluefin from Japan. Narrator: According to is better than American tuna during the peak winter months. While Boston tuna is best But it's the tuna that that's widely considered to be some of the best in the world. Wilcox: Peak-season Oma 400-450 a kilo. Which means by the time it gets here, it'll cost close to $400 a pound. Narrator: Besides its another reason fish is is that it has further to travel, and it goes through a before making its way to your plate. Wilcox: There's more hands in Japan, which is not Narrator: Wilcox says better in Japan than the US. So there's less damage Wilcox: We get like a Boston bluefin, it goes from the fisherman, to Whereas in Japan, it's usually to a collective or cooperative, to the government that's to a middle wholesaler, to a restaurant or a hotel. All high-end fish are auctioned in Japan. Fish that's more sought in a better place, that's handled better, that's clearly better quality and that fisherman will Narrator: The first auction is when you'll see ridiculously Mostly as a symbolic gesture, Which is partly why for $1.8 million in 2013. And the first fish of Wilcox: In Japanese culture, that first thing you do all year is the most important. It sets the tone for the whole year. That first tuna of the the highest price that any tuna will go for the whole rest of the year. Narrator: And the different also vary drastically in price. Wilcox: If you imagine a they'll split it into quarters lengthwise, cut off the head, and the collar, and we will take one of Narrator: Here's what when it's delivered. This piece came from Boston, and was caught the previous day. Wilcox splits up the meat based on type. Wilcox: It's just like sides of beef. You know, you buy a side but once you break it down, the filet ends up being because it's the most desirable. It's also small, and it requires a lot of labor to peel off the silver skin. Otoro is the fattiest part of the tuna outside of the head and collar area. Narrator: This is the most expensive. And depending on where it's from, and where the fish was raised, the price can vary to upwards of $80. Wilcox: The chutoro is the side of the tuna, and it doesn't have the striations of fat, but it still has fat so you get a mix of fat and red. And then, akami which means, literally, red meat in Japanese, is the leanest part which you of the tuna closer to the backbone. Narrator: Akami is the most common and cheapest part of the fish, but it's still more expensive than that can of albacore at your local market. Wilcox: When you're assessing you wanna taste the red meat, the akami. It's a wild animal, so it had a good diet, whether it had a good life, and it got exercise, and and was able to swim around a lot. So, a farm-raised tuna is, and you can actually taste sardines in the fat of a farm-raised tuna. Whereas a wild tuna has a varied diet, and has a much cleaner and Narrator: But for were over-fished in the Pacific, which was harming their population and making it more difficult to come by. However, more recently have led to a resurgence But they could still In fact, Wilcox avoids any Pacific bluefin that is not from Japan, and says you should too. Wilcox: If you eat Pacific bluefin, not specifically from Japan, then that's really irresponsible.