Imagine an ecosystem made entirely of autonomous by an artificial organism. In the video game led to a version of planet Earth inhabited herbivores to deadly predators. While these their fascinating interactions, unique behavioral of study. The story takes place thousands like the flow of time isn't going to stop So, for this entry into the archive, I'll lead investigating the artificial 'biology' of animal roles they fill. We'll need, though, to environment. Now, let's leap forward in time, Beginning in the safety of a region known as the shows little signs of a planet-wide calamity. long since healed -- although this reborn Earth is Small populations of human hunter-gatherers within meager settlements, ever fearful of the whose function they have long forgotten. I find that some organic animal life does persist fill are small and infrequent, for this is no I spot a being roughly the size of a horse. Our of synthetic creature that fills the function of spend much of their time quietly grazing in small Yet what use does a machine have for grass? between the Strider's haunches. This container a type of biofuel synthesized from plants that of this world. The Striders are machines that living herbivore essentially uses vegetation to to autonomous factories called Cauldrons, which being forgotten. Yet this energy source makes This means that -- like most herbivores -- a When threat looms, their optical sensors turn an first instinct when human hunters are near is to they can move with breathtaking speed. With most dangers, only slowing when the coast is I try to stay out of sight... ...But that is easier herd is a new type of machine. This is a Watcher, bipedal beings spend their existence tirelessly precious little slips past their optical sensors unheard of in nature, with the designated sentry this sort of coordination between two species By warning the Striders of imminent dangers, Well... living in a sense. And they also play Watchers can launch themselves into a flying Yet Watchers will fight to the very end while one has spotted me. Launching into their signature pretty serious wipeout. Stumbling to their feet, is bruised. Not wanting to be insensitive, Going forwards, I'll have to be more careful, as in this world of machines... To the north of the the scars of civilization. The crumbling remnants steady encroachment of nature. Yet even after a this site. Yet there are machines in this broken, are adaptable enough to brave this region. Native Grazers possess a pair of metallic a curious function. On the ends of these which the Grazers use to shred grass and dirt Grazers can consume plant matter faster than any Grazer, there are invariably others. A herd of is an odd sight indeed. Yet Grazers don't as with four canisters of biofuel to fill, feels threatened, their antlers have another the machine takes a fearsome swipe at me. A Grazers aren't built for combat, and so this Journeying deeper into the city ruins, In this graveyard of humanity, I sense something haunts this landscape. A Sawtooth. Rippling is the equivalent of an apex predator in the with a pair of curved, serrated spikes, which saber-toothed cats. There are rumors among the larger and more dangerous machines in recent years A machine this large might not seem capable of in the open, they can move with incredible possess claws powerful enough to shred through the a Sawtooth is futile. The only way I'll live to altogether. These ruins are their domain now, and continue to nurture the ecosystem, nature will behind no trace of the people who lived here. Even Venturing to the west, I find a vast scrubland, Yet machines have conquered this with unique adaptations to brave the arid region. bird-like appearance. Like the ostriches of today, flight. Yet through my observations, I've found their chest are two bulbous sacs that resemble in fact, sonic amplifiers. When a Longleg feels soundwave so powerful it sends particulates serious ear protection when observing Longlegs up also capable of alarming bursts of speed. They'll look both beautiful... and frankly absurd. All in My intuition takes me northwards, where I This rusted necropolis is a vast scrapyard - And a unique kind of machine has come to pick of the junkyard are packs of Scrappers. Small but With their humped posture and clawed feet, And like hyenas, Scrappers can be uncommonly seemingly simple terrors. Scrapper jaws are But these jaws aren't just for hunting. True to to recycle metal resources. In grinding down the Scrappers gather materials that can be used in these machines fill a role similar to and improve the health of the environment. Yet to be spotted by one, they would waste no time this metal cemetery is a treacherous place... isolated pockets of vegetation. And patrolling Shell-Walkers. These scuttling oddities move and dry terrain. And unlike all other types of double as transport vehicles -- a class dedicated carry their quarry in hexagonal cargo containers their ever-changing shells, a Shell-Walker's If you ask me, a futuristic robot converging the pinnacle of evolution. And Shell-Walkers will Shell-Walkers possess two powerful arms -- one a mysterious, circular disc. Upon moving closer, generator -- that the Shell-Walkers can deploy to their right. While energy shields are certainly defensive setup can also be found in the natural is significantly larger than the other, which they crab-like body, Shell-Walkers are well Speaking of which, as I venture into the harsher. Rusting under the afternoon sun Before the world fell to ruin, these hurtling signals out to the stars. Yet now, these nothing lasts forever. And seemingly on cue, flock of vultures -- a universal omen of grim these foragers are made of metal. of Glinthawks. These aerial machines keep a grim exceptionally keen eyesight means that little Yet despite their fearsome appearance, Glinthawks Wherever the carcass of non-functional machines breaking down the metal for resources in a manner Glinthawks are obligate scavengers, breaking down profession, but someone has to do it. As long as I should be safe to pass through this area if have grown wise to my presence. In a surprising of freezing liquid my way. This is actually the their bodies as a kind of chemical defense. Glinthawk, thankfully, doesn't seem interested target, when there are so many stationary ones If I don't wish to be claimed by this land myself, dip in the water seems promising... except this is a huge Snapmaw. These imposing machines are and on land. Everything from their gait, to their that of crocodiles. Yet if the jaws of crocodiles the Snapmaw is actually a chainsaw-like blade If one strays too close to the water's edge, it's riverbank, however, I notice Snapmaws actually rays. Like many so-called 'cold-blooded' animals, temperature. Yet what reason might a machine have rows of solar panels lining the Snapmaws back. even when a Snapmaw seems to be inactive, they daily movements. In this land, even a machine With a swim seeming unwise, I escape the heat isolated plateaus rise so high In these frigid microclimates, the strange machines. Trudging through the snow is a bizarre slow-moving machines are well acclimated to the Bellowbacks subtly echo the body plan As another type of transport machine, Freeze hefty cargo sacs on their back, and four smaller Bellowbacks will spray a high-pressure stream of effective defense mechanism, even if it looks... a blast of coolant can be deadly. I think it's Hiking down to the base of the snowy mesa, I Creeping closer, I stumble into the midst beasts that look like they could carry the weight Like the largest rhinos or elephants, Behemoths The mightiest of the transport class, their cargo container is locked in place by clamps. fiercely protective when it comes to their cargo. levitates a ring of boulders using anti-gravity great it shakes the valley. This mysterious power, makes the Behemoths an insurmountable force. minerals and other materials for transport, unleash their crushing force to end my expedition I can't help but stay transfixed In time, however, the convoy lumbers on, Travelling as far west as I dare venture, I reach world dwells. No amount of prior observation Bristling with advanced weaponry, from tip to In terms of size and sheer might, they since the Tyrannosaurus Rex some ninety-million super-predator's sole function is combat. From like the breath of a dragon. On their hips are a smoke from above. Even without their futuristic of dispatching any threat, with their massive further I stay from this machine, the better. Yet can look majestic. Without a visible target, about their environment at a leisurely pace. While wonder what this land might be like if machines But my journey is not over yet. footsteps echo over the water -- so loud the entire the largest machine I've ever seen appears to Tallneck. They can be found across many different Unlike every other machine I've documented today, With their silhouette and gait, Tallnecks largest sauropod dinosaurs. The strange disk that communications array, sending information the solitary Tallnecks act as the unofficial yet seemingly lonely purpose, as the Tallnecks never thanked for their vital contribution to oblivious to their surroundings, or perhaps they well aware I'm likely projecting my own emotions beasts as long as I am able. After all, a path can There's much we've uncovered about this world of From the dense jungles of the south, to the frozen machines I've yet to document, and secrets I've the world of Horizon: Zero Dawn in Part Two, machines in the lost reaches of the world. But thanks for watching. If you enjoyed this entry, and hit the notification icon to stay up to date