Just days before their suicide Adolf Hitler and Eva Braun completed Hitler wanted to leave nothing behind. Historians thought they had consulted Seventy years on, a French officer, now deceased, new political and personal archives of historic significance These unique documents certain crucial moments What was the atmosphere in the bunker? Did the Fuhrer still hold out hope Is there any physical evidence of the affair When exactly did he and his companion Did Goring really intend to seize power The Third Reich has just been destroyed. Berlin, the nerve center of Nazi Germany, There is nothing left of this capital city that for a few years The Westerners would arrive of their occupation zone Then they had to visit the bunker. Thousands of people visited, eager for a glimpse the beast slayer. Everyone wanted to see where Hitler died. First, a procession of personalities. Then came the members and Soviet occupation forces, Among the military personnel was a group of French officers. In the afternoon of November 25th, 1945, Commandant Raymond Rose of Hitler's Chancellery, They had prepared for this expedition. Like their comrades before them, Commandant Rose described his foray into the basement He sketched three maps of his itinerary and the place where he found All that remains are the walls and empty rooms still bearing the traces of looting. The house is open to all comers. In the main hole lit by electric torches, you look for a small hidden door, leading to a second wider staircase, that leads to a vast room Though underground, this room is decorated Then at the far end you must find an iron door Open it and go deeper underground, with exactly 26 steps. There you can see a horrible mess Candle wax, traces of a fire The floor is covered by an incredible mass administrative letters, ledgers, that for seven months for the secret that good fortune In the most remote room, I found the documents that establish whatever happened, Master, The small French group made a major However, more than 70 years later, a French collector, an enthusiast acquired Commandant At one point which were on a wardrobe I'd say it was just after that the historical significance So he asked for permission to keep them, and he kept these documents all his life. I don't think he had the benefit To him, it was a much more emotional act because, in a way, To understand the incalculable we must revisit the story Mid April, with the Red Army The remnants of the German division's, were retreating Across 200 kilometers, The Reich was on its knees, and the Allied bombers Every ten days brought a daytime raid but every night, harassment raids This meant people were constantly busy taking refuge in the shelters, Hitler, like the other So everyone was exhausted. In fact, that's why the British At one point, that he decided to move out. So he moved into the bunker for good. For the desperate Germans, seemed interminable. The radio aired the last live broadcast the finale of Richard Wagner's Hitler locked himself away in his shelter, a few hundred meters under the gardens of the Chancellery in the central government district. From this bunker, For a better visualization and Hitler's bunker, What's known as the Fuhrer bunker The first in 1936 under part The second level was built in 1943 and 44, that the ceiling thickness of 1.6 meters the most powerful The bunker was a construction Living space It was an absolutely massive, Hitler wanted to be sure and control events from there. He was always afraid probably ever since the attempt to overthrow the Nazi government and Berlin was going Hitler and Albert Speer, thought of everything for the bunker. The Fuhrer had to be able to live there safe from any air attack. [German spoken audio] In this part of the bunker, Hitler had planned or ordered a space, A private apartment of four small rooms. In the other part of the bunker Hitler had reserved three and an adjoining room with both sharing a small bathroom. There was also a small meeting room, where twice a day to review the military situation The bunker was a cellar Special adjustments were made and his entourage. There's obviously a gloomy atmosphere. The place itself is absolutely dismal. The concrete formwork bunker of the River Spree, which flowed nearby. So it's a place The ground is pumped continuously, There is a mechanical ventilation system, and you can hear the fan all the time It is really a sordid place. In this setting, He issued contradictory orders. Dr. Morell, his physician, gave him a daily injection and he was taking a number of drugs. Any of the officers and I've interviewed a number of them, were shaken when he returned His hands were shaking, He looked as if he was at least They were appalled, and also worried You can see he was very rundown, and actually in the advanced stages He was bent over, dragging his feet, So he has to hold it with his right hand Hitler had a staff of around 30 He was served by his personal guards, the bunker technicians, What you have here In other words, Goebbels, Bormann, and the secretaries. Against Hitler's will, his secret companion In the private collection we found were two extremely important letters Here are the originals. This is the first time they've been shown, The first is dated April 19th, 1945, addressed to her best friend, The secretaries and Ishoot every day and we're already so proficient I spent virtually my entire life You can imagine how hard it is to sleep. However, I'm very glad Finally, she says, I shall stay with him. That's the tragedy of Eva Braun, who was much younger than him was scared of one thing only, losing him. In fact, she attempted suicide Hitler got scared and kept her. So for her, this, in a way, the fact of showing that she will remain This letter also gives us key information on the eve of his 56th birthday. This letter's interesting, We can still see a glimmer of hope. Not a day goes by when I'm not begged but up to now, I've always won. Today, all communication is impossible, but I'm deeply convinced and he is more hopeful than ever. Yet at 3:00 on the morning of April 20th, a siren that Berliners a signal to all Red Army tanks April 20th was indeed a key moment and as the Soviets began to invade Berlin. So the problem for Hitler From the 20th, as the threat and the last wall of troops collapsed. What to do? Run, or fight? At 3:00 in the afternoon that day, Atop the bunker steps he received the birthday Hitler received in particular, the youngest reserves in his Army. These were the children to die defending Berlin. He wanted to honor Hitler's left arm He shook everyone's hand, he was sending to their death The youngest was 11, the age that children changed schools He's really small, around 1.4 meters, At 4:00 PM, the Fuhrer received birthday wishes Himmler, Ribbentrop, Speer, and Goring. All his faithful were there, but Hitler accepted it all as he was quite obviously I think that the 20th of April, in 1945 was probably one of the most grotesque Here you had Goring that morning who had blown up to make sure that and then all of his looted treasures, were taken in a convoy Then he turns up, and all the other Nazi leaders. Most of them, of course, were desperate because they knew the city was doomed. Many of them tried to persuade Hitler but purely so as to give them That day, his mistress, a signed photograph. We found her present. It's an exceptional piece, with a remarkable story attached. For years after the war, the photograph and its frame Only when the Braun family disposed of it, did a sharp-eyed amateur This dedication of Eva Braun's love for Hitler. All other documents, were destroyed She gives him a dedicated photograph that in fact, bears her monogram, The photo bears the following inscription This is very revealing and of what she's looking for, but rather to &quot;my Fuhrer,&quot; and more especially, It's a time when everyone and she wants to mark and the fact that she has returned. Hitler accepted the gift from she He had turned Eva Braun that he thought he, could under no circumstances take a wife, as it would drive all the other women At the same time, to what he considered the notion and that's why it had become He refused to seek refuge in the Alps, Everyone urged him to go to Bavaria, where major fortifications in the Obersalzberg region. The German propaganda they were setting up an alpine hideaway, where fanatical elements of the SS for a long time yet. None of it existed, it was just a bluff. But it was propaganda and it had a major military impact were sent south towards Munich Hitler knew there was no Alpine hideaway. He knew he was putting off the evil day and decided it was better to die in Berlin Speer had given him the idea, a very cinematic idea would be dramatic, while in Berchtesgaden, it wouldn't have any Against the advice of all his staff Hitler decided to stay in Berlin. Victory or death. His last battle The birthday ended that night Early in the morning of April the 21st, for the first time Soviet artillery shells This was the scenario a battle for Berlin. It was obvious that Hitler wanted to make He remembered, as did Goebbels, and who constantly reminded him that eventually, a major urban battle Stalin, in agreement with Hitler, taking Berlin did make sense. He who took Berlin would be the real victor over the Reich. After the shelling, began to surround Berlin. They were ten kilometers The first Soviet soldiers Stalin named the Reichstag At this stage of the Russian advance, Moreover, Soviet intelligence services He might have already fled. In fact, he was there, trying to plan a counter-offensive. Everything was changing and of course, the briefings themselves lacked no connection with reality. I mean, Hitler was saying that's an army, when, in fact, they just consisted, Holed up in his bunker. Hitler still had three army corps General Busse's Ninth Army the Steiner unit to the north and the 12th Army They had no armored vehicles, There were mainly young soldiers, who were prepared to fight to the end, The idea that somehow with the Ninth Army coming from the East, and make a combined counterattack was, again, typical of Hitler's fantasy. Hitler continued giving orders, as if these three forces could engineer that allowed them to counter-surround No counter-offensive worked. The Germans were retreating in all areas. Hitler didn't understand weren't breaking through. That day, for the first time in ages, Hitler lost his composure He threw a tantrum shouting, &quot;I give up, That was when everyone around him no plan, no hope, Eva Braun shared her despair with Hitler. She described it Also revealed for the first time. was addressed These will probably be my last lines, I don't dare write to Gretl, They both decided to commit suicide. That was already very important, as Hitler didn't announce it They'd announce it later. In any case, she fully explained in the letter &quot;I shall send you my jewelry and ask you &quot;I can't describe to you what I feel&quot; &quot;and what I suffer &quot;I cannot understand how everything &quot;but we cannot believe in any God.&quot; &quot;I fear that the end is nigh, &quot;Keep this letter to yourself &quot;I know I'm asking a lot of you, She says she will send her jewelry and asks her to ensure that her will... She had made a very clear, She asked her to ensure that her will was executed down This letter, the Will, left for Bavaria that same day. Meanwhile, on the evening of the 22nd, Hitler made a declaration which included Goring's Representative. I'm handing over the reins now, it's over. My successor can see to it. Goring can do it. In 1939 and 1941, Marshal Goring had been appointed but in order to be applied, the decrees required to make them official. Hitler's words were reported to Goring, where he had taken refuge and one of his advisers, Hans Lammers. Cautious, Goring, the heir apparent, Is the Fuhrer's decree and again in 1941, is it still valid? Has he issued another since? Lammers said, &quot;No, &quot;So, it's still valid.&quot; They examine it. He thinks about it and he says, &quot;If the Fuhrer did say that &quot;what do we do?&quot; Hermann Goring He was torn and the prospect of committing He decided to sleep on it. In Berlin, the bombing continued. At dawn on April the 23rd, Albert Speer, architect returned to the capital Eva Braun was happy, thinking that now she'd managed She was sadly mistaken. Hitler made his fortune as an architect, gave him access but it took courage Hitler gave him a fairly cool reception, Hitler wasn't stupid. He could see everyone around him Albert Speer bade farewell but also had a confession to make, Speer had not applied requiring the total destruction before the Red Army Speer was deeply hurt that Hitler didn't, at least, show him and didn't even show any interest to virtually an order, an act of treason. Here we find, in this final moment, an echo of the special relationship Speer wanted to tell him. At the same time, the man about whom he felt very strongly. Hitler saw perhaps, in Speer, which explains this lack of reaction, Others had been executed for much less. Hitler let him go. In the afternoon of April the 23rd, 1945, Hermann Goring He wrote to Hitler at 5:43 PM. &quot;Fuhrer, do you agree, &quot;to remain at your combat post &quot;that I should assume the leadership &quot;both internally and externally?&quot; Goring was thinking... In fact, he'd already made to try and kickstart peace talks. Goring wanted to be seen as the man and he sent a telegram to Hitler that if Hitler hadn't shown any sign Goring would take that to mean and Hitler was no longer in a position This telegram were taken from documents by Commandant Rose. In all, 13 original letters and telegrams that now allow us to precisely reconstruct between Hitler and Goring. Then he sent a second telegram, this time to Ribbentrop, and probably Keitel too, saying, &quot;come and join me in Berchtesgaden,&quot; &quot;which means, I'm taking over.&quot; He has absolutely no sense He is reacting to a situation where Hitler is no longer Were he to replace him, Whatever Goring's intentions, When it was handed to Hitler, he was with Goebbels and Bormann, He had underestimated, of course, the way that this would play immediately who immediately presented it that Hitler could only see it Hitler was, by that stage of the war, that the only reason why they were losing The same evening, Hitler sent a scathing reply &quot;The decree only comes into force &quot;There can be no question of my being &quot;I, therefore, forbid you Signed, Adolf Hitler. On the recommendation of Bormann, Hitler had Goring arrested. At 56 minutes past midnight, Goring replied in a long telegram &quot;I've done nothing &quot;and stand ready to serve you.&quot; &quot;May God protect you. &quot;I beg you not to order Frank &quot;I give you my word of honor Late in the morning of the 24th, Hitler dictated &quot;This personally signed telegram &quot;Your actions constitute betrayal &quot;and such conduct, high treason, &quot;Taking into consideration &quot;I offer you a chance to resign, &quot;I command you to answer immediately, In the minutes that followed, Goring He resigned all his offices This marked the succession to power, of a shadowy character his secretary since Rudolf Hess Bormann gave free reign to the hatred in effect, flexing his newfound muscles. Goring was devastated, Bormann, who had his own took advantage of Goring's disgrace Without informing Hitler, he gave a final order Bormann ordered him to execute them This scenario wasn't enacted because the SS major, when Berlin did fall, thought that the killing So he didn't carry out the order. Why did he say after the fall of Berlin? He knew Hitler wouldn't be alive, Knowing that Goebbels &quot;If I can get rid of Goring too, Hitler was unaware and to humiliate Goring even more, On April the 25th, he dictated his last message &quot;In light of your unfaithful attitude &quot;and to the measures envisaged, Personally signed by Adolf Hitler. That day, he also ordered the destruction These documents but in the panic of the final days, Hitler had burned which would include some very important He also burned all the military memos, and he asked his adjutant, Julius Schaub, and burn the archives which Schaub duly did. There's a concern, rather like Goebbels, The fighting drew nearer. Hour by hour, the Soviet troops advanced. At this stage, shells were raining down just above the bunker. A series of typewritten notes transcribing discussions sheds light These documents who headed the bunker's press corps &quot;I can carry off &quot;If I obtain that, &quot;we'll at least have a chance &quot;In Berlin, our success &quot;Such success could only be obtained here, &quot;A reversal is only possible if I managed &quot;Then others might conclude that&quot; &quot;the only one capable of stopping &quot;the party, and the German state.&quot; All these Soviet armies towards the Reichstag, For civilians, You can imagine the cellars, Food was becoming a dramatic problem. When a horse was killed in the street, people risked their lives In the midst of this deluge of fire, managed to land her aircraft It was April the 27th, and her lover, General Ritter von Greim They came down into the bunker, He had been shot in the foot Why did she come? To try to persuade Hitler and go perhaps, to Berchtesgaden. But nothing was to be done, of course. Naturally, he refused. [German spoken audio] In recent days, Hitler had distributed he also gave a capsule to Hanna Reitsch, This was also symbolic, He was rewarding her for her exploit. Cyanide capsule for Hanna Reitsch, who was appointed commander They then left as they arrived, They escaped unharmed. Meanwhile, another Nazi dignitary Heinrich Himmler. He had left Berlin The minister of the interior the unconditional surrender Sure of himself, On April the 28th, Eisenhower refused, totally. His communique was published Hitler was hysterical. The man who had orchestrated was stripped of all offices. This latest betrayal threw him into a furious rage. Still in Berlin, but outside the bunker, SS General Hermann Fegelein Hitler was in a mood for vengeance, and the whole idea that he was somehow in what Hitler saw as treachery, meant that he was determined General Fegelein He was married to her sister Gretl, and Hitler had personally Eva Braun was not even prepared She was actually horrified to abandon the Fuhrer, and she wasn't going She felt it was an act of cowardice of him A fact also that by being unfaithful Psychologically, In a final conversation, typed and conserved Hitler and Goebbels half-heartedly If only Wenck would come. I shall try to lie down for a while. I only want to be awoken Then I might have time Now it is my turn Even if I could save myself, I wouldn't, Hitler and Goebbels thought was about to break through The opposite happened. Barely had it arrived, Rumor and false report For instance, on April 28th, announcing the arrival of the Wenck army A German army coming That was obviously a lie. The Wenck army It would never make it to Berlin itself, After a time came apathy, fear, the desire April the 29th, 1945, Adolf Hitler married Eva Braun, The only witnesses to this union A marriage certificate was signed Hitler pointed out that the ceremony Surreal, given the circumstances. I think Hitler decided to marry Eva Braun which he saw taking place around him, that her decision to come he felt needed to be repaid, and he knew that she wanted, We can also see another meaning, confirmation that Hitler Why? Because in happier times, his view was, In the name of this great principle, After a glass of sparkling wine and the last handful Hitler withdrew to the meeting room, He quickly dictated without hesitation or correction. He'd learned nothing There's still exactly the same obsessions exactly the same obsessions He never made any mistakes. It had purely been We know that he was a thoroughgoing I fell victim to the two faces His Judeo-Bolshevik face to the East and the face of the international While the final act was being played out in the bunker, the Red Army The Soviets stopped unaware of its existence. They didn't even know They thought that were in the parliament building, Their target was the Reichstag. In other words, he could've stayed and nobody would've been the wiser. Once the Soviets had seized the Reichstag, they expected to find They didn't find it, On April the 30th, in his personal will, Hitler announced, &quot;My wife and I choose death to escape &quot;It is our wish to be Hitler did not want to have his corpse shown as a symbol or as a trophy That's why he wanted to have his body I have found in the Russian archives, and one could see it was typed describing the death of Mussolini. Hitler was determined not to have his body and wanted to have his body Early in the afternoon after poisoning his dog, Blondi, Hitler said farewell to all his staff. He advised his assistants to head West, and urged his officers Hitler and Eva Braun The bodies of Eva Braun and Hitler in the Chancellery gardens The next day, May the 1st, Magda and Joseph Goebbels after poisoning their six children. The Second World War ended at the behest of Adolf Hitler. For his posthumous posterity, he chose the grandiose He only resigned himself to his own death 48 hours before Soviet soldiers entered Military operations continued, until the signature on May the 7th and 8th, The Nazi regime With the Fuhrer departed, and everything quickly ground to a halt. Still, what became of Hitler's body? Who found it first? Smash agents found the spot and underneath They took them out of the ground, because the bodies were burned, and sent them for autopsies, Hitler had a very distinctive bridge. He hated going to the dentist. He had a totally unique bridge, Once the remains by the Soviet secret services, Stalin did not inform Marshal Zhukov, of the discovery of Hitler's body. He knew that Hitler was dead, which meant that when Zhukov, even though Kornilov had played a part, When Zhukov gave before the world's assembled journalists, he told them, &quot;We did not identify the body of Hitler.&quot; &quot;He could have flown away from Berlin It didn't make sense because Stalin However, the whole world What if Hitler wasn't dead? What if he got away? That was the starting point For at least 30 years, Stalin's omission fueled Hundreds of books, recorded sightings all over the world, Why did Stalin fail to mention It was Stalin being duplicitous. He possessed a piece of information because he'd use it periodically to leave a doubt It supported his Cold War line which went, there is only one antifascist power and that is the Soviet Union. The proof is that perhaps, and is being hidden It was a propaganda weapon What became of the bunker? Was it destroyed? The spot where Hitler ended his days did not become a memorial After the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, that the former gardens of the Chancellery had become a parking lot for the residents It wasn't until 70 years later, installed these signs of Hitler's last days in the bunker. To date, Soviet authorities of what was done with the remains. As for the historical documents, discovered by Commandant Rose they have now been made public. They enable us to round out of the political and personal story