SIMON PAMPENA: It's I learned this when I was transcendental numbers. And the name was a Because I was like, You know, it's a time when like, out of body experiences But the idea that mathematicians to numbers, numbers, these you're familiar with. Like pi, you can write down You'll never get it right, but familiar with. Has this property that we OK, we're going to play a game, and understand transcendental The game is reducing That's what you want to do. So the rules are you can only and you can add, take, multiply, thing to any power you like, number power. OK, so let's play the game. OK, so do you have a BRADY HARAN: Well, I SIMON PAMPENA: 10? BRADY HARAN: Yeah, but that SIMON PAMPENA: Sure. That's fine. You mean 10 in base 10? BRADY HARAN: 10 in base 10. SIMON PAMPENA: Yeah, OK. So 10 in base 10. OK, here we go. Let's start the game. So we want to get this down to do is multiply it by 0. But that you can do with any times 0 is-- BRADY HARAN: 0. SIMON PAMPENA: Bingo. You can do that, but that's But what is interesting is that rules, we can go, OK, what away 10 from this? We're done. So there you go. So that sounds kind of trivial, good start. So we used a whole number, What about something else? How about 3/4? First of all, let's OK, so these things You get 3. Now we can take away Excellent. But what about something What about like a really What about like, the I think you guys know about BRADY HARAN: Yes, we do. That's irrational, isn't it? SIMON PAMPENA: It's an irrational means it can't be So the square root of 2 is kind and so this little thing here, here is like a little It says, what number multiplied this number? That's the way I think of So I don't know what number 2, but that doesn't matter. Now, what we'll do is one down to 0, OK? First of all, we'll have to-- BRADY HARAN: OK, that, I SIMON PAMPENA: Well, tell me. BRADY HARAN: I reckon if we SIMON PAMPENA: Yep. What power? BRADY HARAN: Let's raise SIMON PAMPENA: Correct, multiplying it by itself. And then what do you BRADY HARAN: You're going SIMON PAMPENA: That's right. So now you've got 2 in there, BRADY HARAN: Subtract 2. SIMON PAMPENA: Yes! So look at that. So you've just taken an this game you've brought How about the square We've gone from numbers that fractions, OK, to irrational. This is irrational numbers. Now we've gone into what they call imaginary, which is OK, so what can you do to get it down to 0? BRADY HARAN: Well, I'm just SIMON PAMPENA: There you go. No flies on you, mate. So there you go. So we've been able to play this very different types of numbers, But what about something else? What about the square root of What can you do with that? So, let's see. The square root of 2 plus Now we're gonna square it. OK, so this is a little bit 2 plus 2 times this by this, 2 times square root of So that's 3. So this reduces down to 5 plus the square root of 3. OK, so this is what We've done that there, but A number that we can use, So what we'll do is on this square root of 2 by the square we'll take away 5. So we'll end up getting 2 by square root of 3. And this is good, because plus sign in the middle. What can we do next? Well, we're going to So 2 squared is 4, and the And the square root OK, so that dot is another And so that one is 2/8, eight 3's 24, done. So if we go 24, take 24, What I wanted to show you, the you this is because all these complicated, unrelated, Now, let's replace all the x take 10 is 0, 4x take 3 is squared plus 1 is 0, and this squared, take 24 equals expand out, so look. These all look like So what we did was in our game, we tried to get them to 0. But the opposite could have been Now, this is the stuff that This is algebra, and it so all these numbers belong to, negative 1, is algebraic So we've actually found a home of maths, the numbers that have schisms, what is the square Square root of 2 from the Pythagorean times. People died because But somehow we've found a family algebraic numbers. OK. So next, we're going to need We've chosen some numbers. What about a special number? What about e? Now this number here-- if you're not familiar with fantastic number for maths. And what it is is that if it's a the x, e to any number that On the graph, when you graph also at the slope of the So it's really, really important It's like a really It means a lot to life, really, super crazy number. Super, super crazy. One of the expressions I can infinite sum. So I'm going to blow you away. It's 1 plus 1 on 1 plus 1 on 2 anyway, it keeps going But can we play the game Can we bring this number rules of our game? BRADY HARAN: Can we do SIMON PAMPENA: Can we That's right. BRADY HARAN: All right. Can we? SIMON PAMPENA: Well, for ages around for about 400 years. Nobody really knew. I mean, this number important, and no one knew. It so happens, we can't. BRADY HARAN: It can't be done. SIMON PAMPENA: It can't be done, Well, I'll kind of try and show actually really tricky. But it was a guy called Charles basically showed-- right, so I'm going to use these don't know what the He basically showed if you try bringing e to any power that timesing it by any So if you claim that there does that you can bring it down to 0, to a contradiction. Basically, he showed that there number that existed Obviously, there's not. Obviously, there's not. But this is what you do in show you something is that it's true, and then you contradiction. So this is amazing. So this is what Hermite really, really a fantastic-- I mean, everyone should be not algebraic. So what number is it? Well, it somehow transcends what The thing with algebra is that's Like, that's our world is Like, any number that you kind life has a lot to You're just adding, taking, but e is not. So it somehow transcends So that's what they called It's actually [INAUDIBLE] show you other than e. You know why, is because-- well, this is the interesting e wasn't the first They discovered a transcendental Liouville, I think his transcendental number quite a before this. But it was like, through So he was actually trying to rules of the game What's special is that e was superstar of maths, e. Like, people knew about it. So this was an extra piece But then people asked What about pi? BRADY HARAN: Superstar. SIMON PAMPENA: The superstar. This is the superstar of math. 2,000 years old. What is pi? Is pi algebraic or So you've got to imagine OK, you love pi. Like, it comes with You cannot not like pi. So this is the thing, is that knowledge of pi. You could add something new, I mean, I would die a happy So this question came Is it algebraic or And so it was about, probably Lindemann actually came He showed, and again, this is showed, he showed e raised to transcendental. So for example, e to the 1, e. That's a good thing, because because it's already Because 1 is algebraic. Your favorite number, That's transcendental, right? e to the square root Right? What about pi? So how could you use this fact algebraic number, is How can you use that fact transcendental? OK, so this is the thing. Again, it's a proof So, this is what he did. He said, let's assume So pi is algebraic. That means there's OK, what's that formula? Who knows? Because it doesn't exist. But as an example, if you're yeah, pi, 22 on 7. All right? OK, cool. So that means pi times Right? As an example. That's not true, by the way. There's no way I'm claiming Don't you dare cut it and say It's not true. Pi, 22 on 7. Pi, 22 on 7. I know pi to quite a few decimal obviously not true. And an actual fact, just so I nice approximation of pi It's actually pretty close. So that could be another So that means if we cube 31, that equals 0. OK, so we've got like these This is the big kicker. This is the big kicker. We're going to use another e to the i pi equals So this is Euler's identity. It's a famous one, isn't it? But look at it. Look what it says. e raised Now, i pi, OK, if we assume pi must be algebraic. So e to an algebraic number But is negative 1 It's not, because we can can get it to 0. So by using another increase formula, imagine this is like you're doing a maths film, and Hollywood star in the world In your proof. Starring in your proof. So this here, e to the If indeed this was algebraic, transcendental, so that means And who's the culprit? Well, it's not the square It's pi. So pi cannot be algebraic, transcendental. So there's something really why I like it. Because the tricky stuff awesome maths is. In maths, perfection But then, anyone who for physics or chemistry, or then they can kind of I'm not interested in