(instrumental music) - Cut, cut cut cut! Who forgot to pay the apple, this is a black and white film people. And Charlie, Keep it down (crowd mumbling) - Don't let these This, is Color Illusions. (upbeat music) Okay, so I've got two One is gray and white and but I'm throw a little Now I want you to take and tell me which color of You'd actually be surprised to find that they're exactly the And let me prove it by they're both exactly the same color gray. And this is because your brain is accounting for the same color under different lighting circumstances. Now let's move on to a So for this next one, I wannna take this picture right here and create a giant magical And we're gonna be doing that of the Pixma printer by Cannon. And they're our sponsor of today's video. I've got a little trick, in order to help speed up production. Alright, buddy get to work. And I'm gonna have the help So let's get Keyshawn, and Nick. Let's get to work. (bright upbeat music) Uuu! Okay. That was way more work But the mural turned out awesome, huh! We've got two seagulls We have a purple seagull and But what if I told you they're What if I also told you hidden in this mural, it's right here in the center, smack dab. So if I move this up, it appears to match this we move down the mural. It looks like it's but that's actually we've got orange and And so it changes color appearance of it based on the background that it's against. Pretty cool huh! Okay, flying out of this (fast movement) Alright, so we've got in front of me. I've got white vanilla pink, but you might've already may not be as they seem. we've got the white vanilla, which is actually maple. Now let's reveal brown chocolate, this is actually a maple doughnut as well. But this third donut is really a surprise, the pink strawberry is Would you look at that? So we've got three of the same donuts and this illusion is created by mostly this foreground object, While the background object What's also interesting about color is it can alter your mind's So pink strawberry. I really shouldn't, but I'm going to. So for this next illusion, and this is going to demonstrate how important color is So I've got a green, and here's what I want you to do. I want you to look at and tell me if you see any gray lights, count them up, comment below And now I'm gonna reveal. (soft music) So you can see the three but what's also fascinating is the light that's supposed This light is supposed to be This one is supposed to be So it's pretty crazy how for it to see the color. And if I pull up the color wheel here, blue is a complimentary color to yellow. So your mind naturally fills to be yellow. I wannna show you for our next illusion a really sweet negative color trick. So let me invert this. (soft music) The interesting thing about your vision is when you stare at an image long enough, you start to see what's And it's kind of like a ghostly image of the one that you're staring at. And so what I want you to for you to experience that and you're gonna stare at the center dot for about 15 seconds. You're gonna want to make sure your video is in full screen for this part. So stare at this marker and try not to blink. Okay, so you're staring, and I'm gonna to count down. I'm gonna to count down from five and wanna get to one I'm in a snap and the image is gonna change, ready? Five, four, three, two, one. Keep your eyes on the center dot and have the colors in the Try moving your eyes around, and you'll notice that the colors that you think you're seeing In fact, if you look around It's pretty wild how your brain can play such crazy mind tricks on you. When in fact reality is much different for this next illusion, I'm gonna go to the computer because I'm going to show first, let me turn it to color. So I want you to stare and don't look away from that middle duck. So at first you'll the arrangement of ducks, but right about now you should be seeing a yellow even though it's not there, your mind's filling in the blanks and it becomes so vibrant that you can just reach out and grab it. Oh, rubber ducky. (duck squawks) Now for this next illusion, we have to go into a (taps on the TV) (soft music) Wow! So I am in a monochromatic room right now, which is really trippy because I actually look because of this special light, which is only admitting And so it allows you When you take a regular flashlight and introduce light back into the room. For me, I can only see these as various grays are on the gray scale, but when I introduced light, it's either they're released So my next question is, what color is this painting to you? To me, I see a very dark gray, but when I shine the light, and we have the red logo. You can do some other fun painting tricks like this one it's just looks with that cute little butterfly, but actually with light, you see that's a chameleon and a little friend butterfly there. My great grandfather passed from the Western days, and it was a... - Good heavenly( indistinct) - well, this has been I'm gonna go to another illusion now. So the really cool trick about colors is if you stare at them long enough, they can actually pull like this illusion here. If you're gonna stare at this center star, and by the way, this or a larger tablet if you have one, but stare at the star and the word dream and the but comment below if that worked for you. So I've got one more final And this is a little seizure alert. If you are prone to seizures, do not watch this next part, Cause it's gonna be a little But before we end this give it a thumbs up. And there's gonna be two videos over here and subscribe over here. But here is the next illusion So I want you to stare at Don't look away, you can keep staring. Now just a few seconds, I'm gonna cut to another image and you should see some So okay, three, two, one. (instrumental music)