In the 1950s, a flight from London to New All the while enduring the noise and vibration ride through a North Atlantic storm. And then... Along came jetliners. They flew above the weather, and a flight to just seven hours. The Jet Age revolutionized air travel. But an even bigger leap forward was just around In the upcoming supersonic age, airliners fly right at the edge of space. Cutting a trip from London to New York down It was supposed to be the next giant leap But instead, going supersonic would end up in commercial history. In 1947, a rocket-powered plane breaks through The first time in history an aircraft is recorded The monumental achievement tputs to rest doubts supersonic flight. And it was just the start. New speed records quickly followed as supersonic And it wasn't long before military aircraft well beyond the sound barrier. If a commercial airliner could be built to be cut down to just a couple hours, pulling But flying at supersonic speeds requires engines as those on subsonic jets. Streamlined wings and airframes, and materials by air friction. With these technical hurdles, there were doubts air travel made any sense. But only a decade earlier, there was similar from props to jets. Even so, the transition to jet age happened behind. The upcoming supersonic age could end up doing In 1949, the British stunned the world with It flew faster and higher than any airliner The Comet was revolutionary, and with it, the jet age. That is, until a design flaw caused a string the Comet. Which gave the rest of the world time to catch By 1960, for every Comet sold, the Americans own. And the British quickly lost their early lead But if supersonic air travel was the next to retake the lead. By 1961, the British had come up with an early At the same, the French were also working As both efforts advanced, it made sense to And after a little creative deal-making and to launch the Concorde program, signing a Britain and France, once fierce aircraft-building air travel. Thousands of the brightest French and British air travel a reality. Aside from maybe the Apollo moon landings, project of the century. It would cruise at twice the speed of sound, Although it would burn more fuel, Concorde regular jet could make just one. Offsetting higher fuel costs by reducing the By 1963, mockups were capturing the world's And Airlines placed orders for more than 70 A number expected to grow to at least 200 And beneath Concorde's elegant lines was It's delta wing took over 5,000 hours of An ingenious shape that allowed Concorde to fly into existing airports. Afterburning turbojets were sourced from a But they were re-engineered with an innovative speeds for longer than aircraft in history. With a streamlined airframe, Concorde's The solution was a nose cone that lowered and landing. The sheer number of innovations was astounding. But by 1967 Concorde was ready to be unveiled As Concorde landed, dozens of people telephoned For those who live near the runways at Kennedy in the world. Zero Zero Two didn't help with matters when at Tokyo Airport. This magnificent machine is a prime producer The sonic boom. So far, 7,000 people have complained. The National Science Foundation of the United there will be severe environmental damage In fact they say the plane is all wrong. Too dare, too small, too dirty, and too noisy. Your biggest customers have...have gone down No they haven't gone down the drain, they...they've.... The Concorde has always seemed to me to be If you kill it, what do you put in its place. I do not kill it....It never lived...It never lived. There was no future for Concorde from the By the early 1970s, Concorde was facing a There were even doubts about whether the plane For one, Concorde's afterburning turbojets jetliners of the day And it led to protests And like all supersonic aircraft, Concorde Loud bangs heard by anyone under the supersonic Public tolerance for sonic booms had clearly started banning supersonic flights over their Evidence was also mounting that Concorde could If hundreds entered into service...regular the ozone layer. But the biggest challenge facing the program Concorde had been designed in the 1960s, when But it would enter commercial service in the began to skyrocket. And Concorde burned nearly four times more while carrying fewer passengers. The economics made no sense. And by the end of 1973 nearly every airline Leaving just a tiny handful of orders. Nowhere near the 150 planes the program needed All the while, development costs were spiralling To more than ten times the original estimate But with the Concorde treaty, neither France without paying the other massive penalties. So with or without orders, the Concorde program After 14 years of development, Concorde was 21, 1976, two Concordes simultaneously lifted It was a huge milestone for the program, but air travel that many had once predicted. Because British Airways and Air France were And both nationally owned airlines had been Each taking delivery of just a few planes. With limited range and over land flight restrictions, Every time Concorde takes off, British Airways on the Bahrain route, it's costing them In just the first few years, British Airways Concordes.... ...And by 1980....rumors were swirling that It might seem a strange decision to have the forms of transport in the world. But a dramatic turnaround was just around By the mid-1980s, British Airways and Air Concordes, they had figured out how to make With the prospect of supersonic air travel only fourteen Concordes in service, the plane air travel. Instead, Concorde was rebranded into an ultra Aimed at a new kind of passenger... with much By the mid-1980s, the price of Concorde tickets At one point costing upwards of 20,000 in round trip. Concorde might've failed to revolutionize new market serving celebrities and the ultra-rich. And with only a handful of aircraft in service, faded. Instead for nearly three decades, Concorde the British and French. But much like it's development and introduction, A tragic crash in July 2000, caused by a piece safety record. A year later the events of September the 11th And then there were the challenges of maintaining In 2003, after 27 years of service, the most was retired by Air France and British Airways. Closing the final chapter on the most ambitious There's a lot more to Concorde's story. And you can keep watching on Nebula, where win over skeptical airlines and fascinating never was. Nebula is where you can watch Mustard videos Without any ads or sponsor messages. It's also home to a growing number of Nebula favorite Youtube Creators. Right now, you can get free access to Nebula For just $2.99 a month, CuriosityStream gets and an ever expanding catalog of topics. From History to Nature to Science and Design. Sign up for CuriosityStream for just $2.99 for free by going to CuriosityStream.com/mustard the promo 'mustard' when you sign up.