Hi it's me, Tim Dodd, The Everyday Astronaut Rockets are HUGE, complicated and expensive. As a matter of fact, the rocket that took meters or 363 feet tall, and had more separation I actually didn't mean for that one to happen. So why do rockets always split themselves Isn't that complicated and risky? Why throw so much of it away? I mean, there's got to be a better way!!! Well how about if rockets were only ONE stage? How awesome would that be? Well this idea isn't new... it's called considered the holy grail of rocketry. Well, today, I'm going to SMASH THAT HOLY In order to drill this point in we'll teach and help you understand why every orbital Then we'll take a stroll down SSTO history cases almost worked... And not to be a huge downer, we'll take a work, including the Skylon spaceplane that Ok, Everyday Astronaut VS SSTO's... oh man, one... but hear me out, let's get started! So if you've ever played Kerbal game where you design, build and fly rockets get them off their home planet of Kerbin, all the rage. Building an SSTO in Kerbal is bragging rights, But what if I told you, I can't hardly think Well there's a few potential benefits, but Ok... ok... so before I sound like some old with your SSTOs", let's talk about why and why people dream about a time when launch Imagine a world where a launch vehicle takes does that multiple times a day. No problem. Sounds like a real life millenium falcon. When most people use the term SSTO it's it would go up in space and come back down to get it there and back. And again, when talking about reusable SSTOs A vehicle which takes off and lands like a Sounds great right? One vehicle to do it all! Nice and simple. Take off from any runway just like a jetliner out at a boring old 10 kms or 35,000 feet altitude until you're in orbit! Then when your mission's done, just come again, like any other jetliner. Hmm, SSTO's don't sound bad... do they? Uh oh, have I lost my mind??? Well, before we keep on dreaming about our look at the history of rockets to see why The first liquid fuel rockets ever made were Basically a rocket engine, some propellant kind of warhead on top. Rocket's were mostly used as an advanced for us, they also so happen to be able to The V2 rockets built by Germany, were the In June, 1944, a V2 rocket on a test flight agreed upon boundary of space at 100 kms or Sure, a single stage rocket can get up to Well in order to stay in space, an object To orbit the earth, a vehicle needs to be per hour to stay in space. Ok... so now we have a new goal for humanity. Get something into orbit. Well on October 4th, 1957 the Soviet Union The shiny metal ball with scary looking spiky hey that's pretty much my weight! The vehicle that carried Sputnik to low Earth commonly known as the R7. This rocket was revolutionary and allowed ascent by ejecting spent fuel tanks and rocket This is called staging. It was revolutionary and pivotal in putting Staging is the number one cure for the tyranny The tyranny of the rocket equation is basically If you were to double the amount of fuel in V or change in velocity... Due to now having to push around all the weight it, the rocket is able to burn longer, sure, the change in velocity. And it only gets worse the further you go the engine and next thing you know you're so on and so on. So this is where staging comes in. Once a rocket empties a fuel tank, why not Even better, if the rocket is throttling down why not throw away the heavy, unnecessary This is what the R7 rocket did. It was basically a good sized rocket with Once those side rockets were spent, they were as the korolev cross, named after Sergei Korolev... of the Soviet space program. BTW, you can still see the Korolev Cross on Separation events are often a breath holding There are two main types of staging events. First there's parallel staging where multiple Soyuz, or the Space Shuttle, or Falcon Heavy. Everyone holds their breath during staging mission will fail. It was definitely a big moment when the side Or there's an even more complex and nail This is what most multistage rockets do. It fires one stage first, then that engine the 2nd stage fires and keeps going to orbit Not only is the 2nd basically a new fully are also optimized for the vacuum of space But, that's another huge advantage for staging. Having different engines optimized for different The first rocket ever to ever do any kind It was literally a V-2 rocket with a small It was launched between 1948 and 1950 and data on multi staging. But this stage separation event was really for a long time. That's why many early rockets utilized parallel As a matter of fact, separation events, or almost lead to SpaceX being another forgotten only 3 flights attempts. Flight 3 of their Falcon 1 rocket had a separation little residual thrust after stage separation, to a failed mission. So if it was so coveted and necessary to make sought after? Well, there's something to say about making So maybe SSTOs are good for something... Well, I guess in order to see if SSTOs make where I'll fire up Kerbal Space Program Welcome to Kerbal Space Program with Realism Now Realism Overhaul is about a million different have a real solar system, it makes it a lot Ok so our goal today, we're trying to take 250 kms in altitude. So I built us a nice simple 2 stage rocket vacuum engine, and then it has a SpaceX Merlin this things about 34.9 meters tall and has Ok now let's get ready to take this thing HIP HIP! Yeah! Look at it go! Alright we're going to speed this thing up orbit. Alright now notice I've got the map pulled if this were to run out of fuel right now it's highest point or apogee. So you can see there you know we've got the idea of you know where this things going. Now just like if you were to throw a ball throw it further it would arc further and Well we're just accelerating continually making and further away. That's how rockets work. Ok now we're running out of fuel in our first separation. And now we're going to light up that upper And there it goes that the RL-10 upper stage of space. So it means it has a really high specific And specific impulse is kind of like your And this this is just going to keep on accelerating It's going to keep on going and get itself So its got a long ways to go now umm so this You know look its still accelerating! And again if it were to cut off right now, it was a fresh rocket, only about halfway of Africa! You know so look it, you can see on the map Ok we're just going to keep speeding up and to around 7,500 meters per second which is We're just going to do an apogee kick which totally circularize ourselves and put us into And wah la. A perfect orbit ish um that's fantastic now stewards so we're going to go ahead and de And it'll burn up on reentry. Nice and easy. There we go! Well that was honestly the perfect rocket It could just barely get that 1 metric ton fuel margins remaining to de-orbit itself. It's perfect, it was a perfect fit. Ok so I know what we're thinking. So let's go ahead and turn this into a single So first things first let's go ahead and strip second stage, so let's go ahead and take off don't need that anymore! And we don't need any of the interstage hardware Uh, so let's get ahead and take all this stuff And goodbye. We're going to attach this back up. We need to put those thrusters back down on all that fuel that was hydrogen for that upper the first stage engine. And wa la now we have about 7,155 m/s, let's Alright so we've got our first version of for launch let's do this 3, 2, 1 hip hip! And there we go! Let's go ahead and kind of fast forward this Not bad not bad. How far is this thing going to make it, I'm Ditch the fairings. Coast up we're at that 250,000 meters in altitude we're out of fuel and that's all the further What? Yeah we only had a tiny little drip of fuel And that's all the further our satellite's the Atlantic ocean. Let's try and go bigger, let's add enough Ok, so... I know what we're thinking, let's just add Right? We're at 7,155 m/s we've got to get that up these tanks shall we? I'm just going to click here and we're going And we're just going to make this tank taller. A lot taller, alright. A lot taller. Just going to keep going here. A lot taller. (laughing) uh I'm going to be here for a while Uh a lot a lot a lot a lot a lot a lot a lot Well I'm tired of doing this. Let's go ahead and stop at 602 meters tall. Uh we're going to need a new VAB. We absolutely smashed through the roof of let's go ahead and load this up. (laughing) Yes! It loaded! And it's not tipping over, for now! Oh my gosh that's amazing! 600 meters tall and by the way guys we only We still don't even have enough delta v to And I think there's one other problem you tall, I think there's one other thing you Oh. What? It just blew up on the pad! Oh it's like the dumbest pencil lead thing Look at that! Ok let's try and launch this thing anyway. I think we know what's going to happen here Uh even though we only have 8,800 meters per low of thrust, to even remotely take off. And there we go uh, it just blows up on the So the thrust to weight ratio was way too Um and even with that single engine, so let's you need above 1.0 in order to actually start So .05, so we'd have to add, what is that? 20 more of those engines and we still didn't so let's see what it would take to actually Alright so I've got an idea, why don't we shall we? So let's go ahead and first things first stretch remember the Falcon 9 first stage booster Um and then we're gonna need a 8 more of those avionics, etc etc. Kinda shnazy this up just a little bit. Uh and what do we got here we ended up with So still 1,000 meters per second under what first stage of a Falcon 9, I can't help but we have 9 merlin engines instead of 1 Merlin a sudden we have instead of 2 engines we have for that first stage, all together that whole sitting at you know a 45 or 50 meter tall still are going to fall up short. Let's launch it anyway just to show you and And again I'm just going to speed it up here And guess what look, just like that, guess We didn't have enough fuel, even with our per second short of orbital velocity. We're out of fuel there's nothing we can do And look, we still didn't even make it to So we made it about 2/3rds of the way across an entire Falcon 9 first stage booster basically, small two stage rocket than a massive one and to be honest with out tweaking the variables future technology like an aerospike engine, Space Program... at all! Alright... so I guess SSTO rockets don't doesn't really add up. DARN YOU TSIOLKOVSKY!!!! So I can already hear you over there saying "but Elon musk said the Falcon 9 booster Sure it can. Now good job. You just put a $30 million dollar piece of margin to carry anything more than a small or land. I think there's better ways to put a backpack And again... Elon said that the BFS, the spaceship portion orbit by itself with a low payload but using of magnitude more payload. Well first off, it would require firing the Elon says, "I wouldn't recommend." But, ok, so combustion instability aside, orbit AND somehow have enough margins to deorbit, So... now we flew a BFS to space and back a Falcon 9 could deliver. The cost of range, personnel and of course Ok, so now let me ask you this, wouldn't it and since the booster experiences much less be flown a lot more often without maintenance So why not utilize the entire vehicle? In the best case scenario you just launched little on gas money. Once an entire vehicle is routinely rapidly of R's... then who cares if it's one stage In best case scenario 2 stages is better than even work at all. Ok, but let's not be all poo poo here. Let's take a look at some SSTO designs past, that seem promising. Let's start off with some previously proposed Well, one of the earliest proposals was the Bono of Douglas Space in the 1960's. Later he proposed a reusable version called Another proposal from the 60's was the NEXUS I'm talking insanely big. It would've been 122 meters or 400 feet HOLY MOLY that is huge! Ok, so paper rockets are one thing, but how Look no further than the DC-X or Delta Clipper The DC-X was was an actual working 1/3rd scale to be capable of putting about 1,300 kgs or The DC-X was just to demonstrate vertical 8 times between August 1993 and July 1995 a maximum altitude of 2,500m. Think of it kind of like SpaceX's grasshopper. In 1996 NASA took the program and turned it to the vehicle. It flew four times, including a 26 hour turn 3,140 meters or 10,300 feet. It's last flight was on July 7th of 1996. After a landing strut failed to extend and the vehicle. Despite a relatively low cost to repair and and looked to pursue Lockheed Martin's VentureStar... So let's talk about that! VentureStar is probably one of my all time See... I don't HATE SSTOs.... Lockheed Martin proposed a space shuttle replacement the U.S. government to work on its development. The VentureStar ticked all the SSTO boxes. It would've been amazing and it actually a subscale, suborbital version. But here's the rundown. It had advanced carbon fiber construction, take 20,000 kgs or 45,000 pounds to LEO. That's close to a Falcon 9! It would take off vertically like a rocket shuttle. Unfortunately, the subscale x-33 demonstrator close to flying. The X-33 demonstrator had 96% of its parts even the launch facility was complete! The reason for its cancellation was a long and excess weight. DARN YOU WEIGHT! Next how about maybe the craziest proposed The Roton. This thing is hilarious. This... is a helicopter that could get to Supposedly. It basically was a helicopter powered by jet So some small thrusters at the end of the It would then lift itself off using the low until the atmosphere got too low where it to orbit using the rocket engine. But the cool thing is, the rotors weren't Instead of providing lift, they would continue engine. Then they would also be used to slow down to land softly. Apparently it was horribly unstable when flying was found to be unflyable by anyone except of being completely out of control... yikes. Despite a full scale atmospheric test vehicle the program was cancelled in 2001 due to lack wasn't valid and it was technically impossible But I still LOVE that wacky thing. It's straight up ridiculous! Ok so what about some current proposals? It's been more than a decade since those some new technology we can apply and make Well, you can't talk about SSTOs without the Skylon space plane. The Skylon is being designed by the United an amazing combined-cycle hybrid rocket engine Now this is the one concept I can sort of The Skylon's SABRE engines act like a fairly It uses the atmosphere to its advantage. Instead of a traditional rocket that tries possible by ascending virtually straight up 5 times the speed of sound or around 6,000 from the atmosphere, just like a any other And unlike a traditional rocket, the Skylon the atmosphere. Then when it switches to the closed cycle So it doesn't need to carry nearly as much Another huge weight savings advantage. The SABRE engine has received even further &amp; Rolls Royce to build a high temperature this year. So the Skylon actually has some promise! But... even though it's technically theoretically non SSTO vehicles first, much before the Skylon In 2017, Mark Thomas of Reaction Engines said as a 2 stage vehicle where it would deploy velocity and then the space plane would turn And one more thing while we're talking about Remember the SR-71 blackbird? Even though it could only reach mach 3... needed to have large gaps in body panels since This led to it basically peeing its pants runway. Now can you imagine something that goes even Well this is the 21st century after all, I on the runway, but the crazy heat at high hurdle. I personally foresee there being many fairly Skylon actually work. It'll be amazing if it does, but for now, and dreams to me. If you guys want me to do more about Skylon, We could probably do a whole video on it, And lastly... we should probably mention Arca This to me, is pretty silly. It's an SSTO rocket with a linear aerospike BUT, it's only capable of 100kg or 220 pounds Maybe they should just add a small upper stage since they're throwing away the whole thing My big question for Arca is... why. What's the point? The ONLY thing they claim thats an advantage no spent stages to fall on populated areas. Uhhh. I'm not sure how I feel about that. I mean yay for aerospikes, but boo for a rocket Ok... so all past SSTOs have failed, all current are kind of pointless in my opinion... and a usable SSTO in the near future without some propulsion. BUT WAIT. There's ONE MORE THING. So far I'm here talking about how all SSTOs As a matter of fact, one of the most famous the lunar excursion module! Of course it could do single stage to orbit, The LEM was capable of achieving lunar orbit But... that's the moon. The moon's gravity is much weaker than Earth's against. And then we have SpaceX's BFS which will of Mars, but even have enough performance surface of Mars in one stage. Again, this is mostly due to Mars having only only 1% the atmosphere of Earth. Making achieving orbit, much much easier. So maybe SSTOs don't suck. Maybe Earth sucks. It has just enough gravity to make it barely and it has that pesky atmosphere which slows I still stand by the fact that as cool as them, they just don't really work in practice Of course I'm not saying that's how it'll After all. I think we can all agree the most important So what if a multi stage rocket IS fully reusable? Like the BFR? Isn't that what matters most? The first stage does what it needs to do then Same with the upper stage. So who cares if the vehicle does it in one pieces. You can almost think of the booster stage off a brand new fresh rocket, giving it extra back and lands. I think that's awesome. I can't wait for a day when orbital flight And for the foreseeable future, I think it'll So what do you think? Do you think SSTOs are still valid and practical #teammultistage Let me know your thoughts on SSTOs in the And PLEASE, spare me your Kerbal SSTO designs... It works in Kerbal Space Program is not a And before you tell me all about how SSTOs that's NOT exclusive to SSTOs. That's an air launcher and or lifting body That is not exclusive to SSTOs. Let me know if you have any other questions As always, I owe a huge thanks to my Patreon Everyday Astronaut content possible. I owe a super special thanks to those Patrons subreddit for helping me script and research. We had quite the debate about SSTOs. If you want to help contribute, please visit Don't forget to check out my web store for and original artwork and lots of other fun And as always, all the music in my videos Feel free to check it out at soundcloud.com/everydayastronaut Thanks everybody that does it for me. I'm Tim Dodd, the Everyday Astronaut. Bringing space down to Earth for everyday