(soft music) (music) (birds chirping) (music) (soft music) (helicopter approaching) (panting) - This document obliges us of the bonds to a bank of your And this is called a transfer-and-release Simply, it says you've agreed and transfer them And that's it. - Someone else has contacted me with an interest - And what is this someone if you don't mind me asking? - Thirty cents on the dollar. - That's a good deal, Mr. Lopez. That's certainly a lot more You knew what my number was Why didn't you take his deal? - Why the price so low, I grew up on that land. These should be worth more. - They've all been logged. - Did you know we now own more than 25% It's remarkable. When we get back there's something I want you It's not something but it's nothing - Alright. - I want you to watch Caravedo. - What for? Caravedo has - And now it's time You know what his bonds Let's get him already. - I don't know anything - What's there to know? - Why don't you just hire - I can't have a paper trail - This is not my job. but I'm asking you If we lock Caravedo... (background chatter) (honking) (chuckling) (background chatter) (moaning) (crying) (mother crying out) (moaning) (moaning) (man): We didn't do it! My brother Rafael and I on the Upper West Side. At the time, And myself, uh... it was a very scary time for me. Nevertheless, every day, I knew Rafael would be outside And one day, like always, Only, this time, with a new friend. This guy. And for the first time ever, He said, &quot;Hey, could you do me a favour? I spoke to Mom, but she won't be here so could you wait inside, 'cause Oliver and I At that moment, I believed Rafael's best friend, Because my brother's happened to be He said, &quot;Hey, Rafa, that's your hermano. We stay right here with him.&quot; Oliver has been... a major part of my life and never once let me down. Not once. And when my brother passed... ...when Rafa passed on... ...there wasn't anybody stronger Oliver Scott Campbell, I love you dearly. Happy birthday. (all): Happy birthday! (cheering and applause) (helicopter approaching) (background chatter) (gasping) Shhh. Shhh. - Well, you're just gonna have Yeah, the whole damn package, Yeah, and send it to me OK. Yep. OK. Oh, boy, And how is the birthday boy? - I was hoping - Well, you can only say that I got a nice card from Kate Coffee? Anything? - But something tells me - That's 'cause he's on it You could've gotten him a book. They want to blow things up. take 'em apart, - Well, he'll be forever - Well, that's why - Mm-hmm. Ollie, that you are not gonna I need you to draw up - What? on a client's deal Now the banks are calling - Why me? Why this deal? You got 10 others that don't have half the upside - I wish you were right But it's gonna be alright. We've got Peru cornered - I didn't spend working day and night, to break even, Nathan. - You'll get another chance. No, this is my chance - Yes, you do. the way it should've been, I need the cash. - This is insane. I just had my hands this fucking thick, Nathan. And now we're making moves And just like that, you're gonna pull the plug at another 60 million-plus? Don't do this. OK. Please, just listen to me. Caravedo is a shark. You know the kind It doesn't make any sense that he hasn't sold us his bonds Unless he's got something else Now, he knows He knows We are on him, Nathan. - Alright, I'll have a look - Great. to hold the banks off - It's not enough time, though. I want the exit plan I want you to follow up and I want a closing date Oliver. One week. (baby crying) - Happy birthday, Daddy! - Happy birthday...! - Don't jump on the bed, Come on. When are you leaving? - Uh... early tomorrow morning. - What time? - First flight out. - You know, every time she thinks you're on it. - I'm not in the mood today, (sighing) (fussing) I'm sorry. I didn't mean that. It's just... All these flights it's not like I'm... I'm tired. - Have you seen Nathan Have you? (sighing) - Nathan's shutting us down, Got a week to finish this, so the last two years - Just... come home. (baby rattle shaking) (baby laughing) - Hi. - Ah... What have you got here? Mm... that's good. (background chatter) (music) (phone ringing) (cattle lowing) (panting) - I don't understand this. major adjustments for negotiations - Then why haven't you with any kind of offer, Manuel? What did you expect? That Union Global wouldn't That we would just stop? - You know we don't have at our disposal. - Peru's got 20 billion - Those are emergency funds, Do you have any idea - Manuel, there is a free-trade agreement which the IMF and the World Bank if Peru chooses not to fulfil That means you pay. - The agrarian reform that can be settled between It is our history. That you have chosen You could at least show - Don't talk to me You know as well as anyone As the Minister of Finance, for you to not have ready for Wednesday's closing. - Oliver. Oliver. Oliver, just... I didn't mean-- Look. I have always been respectful And I have been with your bleeding-heart But what just went on in there Do you understand me? I'm getting enough weight The last thing I need Look at me, man. - Did you hear what he said? - No. What I heard which you let get to you. - The thing is, he's right. People will suffer from this. - That's such bullshit, Ricardo! Nobody is going to suffer What Peru owes us, It's insignificant And with regard to that history if Peru had been responsible then they wouldn't in this predicament This is how it works, Ricardo. This is how it's always worked. Debts need to be paid. It's what makes the world - You told me - Oh, Jesus Christ, You want three Peruvians You, Angela How about that? Ricky! C'mon... Ricardo! Don't do this. You know how much money if you walk away now? (distant chatter) (indistinct chatter) (barking) (barking) (bang) (scraping) (bangs) (whistling) (soft music) (soft music) (knocking) - Come in. - You can't talk to people Especially me. Not after everything I want to be here for you, you've gotta recognize that's seen it all And I tell you, not everything as you make it out to be. There is a village called Pampacancha. Caravedo is trying to do some He wants that land badly. Badly enough that he's paid to keep it quiet. - How'd you find out about it? - I paid one to be unquiet. I'll go up there to poke around, Maybe we can get - Great. I'll go with you. You'll stick out in those parts, Oliver. - Nathan's breathing I don't have time. Caravedo has got a reputation So if I find out that he's going to turn that village you've got to promise me we're I can't be a part of that. - I promise. - I need to rent a car. If I'm going to get there I should leave now. And I'll reach out to Caravedo See what his side - Oliver. You gave me your word. - Good work, Ricky. (soft music) (soft music) - So your bonds in exchange - Mm-hmm. - Why didn't you come to us (laughing) I'm trying to buy that would need permission And your free-trade agreement can guarantee me Let's be honest, Oliver. Had there been a conversation, I believe you would've have done to stop me But the fact instead of doing just that... Your clock is ticking. And there's something else - and forgive me but you fail to understand, - What's that? - My father's land was taken Sixty-thousand hectares. His life's work, my heritage. I watched him grow old and And now you're here to profit offering me pennies I don't think so, Oliver. This project means much more It means jobs, infrastructure. It means export, expansion. It is growth. It is vision. - What about the people - They are the backbone It doesn't work without them. That's why I'm offering them Peru was once great My father was the living proof And I do believe can make Peru great once again. You want my father's bonds? You're going Get me that land. Get me that land - Who's the farmer (Nathan): Same on my side: - I need more time. - Jesus, what's it gonna take? - I'm with you on this, alright? I know what the numbers are, Look, Oliver, there's nothing We can either break even or you help Caravedo - Alright. - Where are you, Ricky? - Hi, this is Ricardo. and I will be sure (beep) (ice rattling) - Ah! (soft music) (gulls cawing) (grunting) (panting) (children shrieking) - Ah!!! Ah! Ah!!! Ah!! (moaning) (groaning) Ah!! (soft music) (distant laughter) (glasses clinking) - I don't have Are you gonna take me to him, or do I need to find - What did Senor Caravedo - He said you'd help me. You do know him, don't you? - He's not going to sell. (groaning) (wincing) - There is no service up here. Take these. - What about you? Hey, Jorge. Can you think of anything to change Florentino's mind? - No. - Because he thinks by keeping them there. - How do you know that? - He's my brother. (soft music) - Ha! Ha! (screaming) (screaming, then moaning) (soft music) (soft music) (panting) - Come. - Come on. (panting) Hey! Hey! (sobbing) (moaning) (wincing and moaning) (crying out) (breathing shakily) (soft music) (soft music) (soft music) (soft music) (siren wailing) (soft music) (music fading) - Mr. Campbell? - Hey, Jose. - This is Detective Orihuela. He has come here to see you. (exclaiming) (slapping thighs) (breathing shakily) - God. (breathing shakily) (sighing) Why don't you tell me again what your plans are What the hell did you have I'm talking about this, Ruben. - What did you expect him to do, Tell the whole world on a mountain of gold? - What are you doing here? - What happened to your face? - I'm here to close your deal. - You knew about this? How long? - He told me the same story - How long, Nathan? - Since I learned that Ruben was on the market High-end mining equipment. This is an incredible deal - You lied to me. - No, I did not lie to you. I told you And it gave you focus. - Ricardo's dead. - I know, I know. I'm sorry. But we are going to take care So you have - Wow. It's really that easy for you, If I find out... that you had anything to do - Oliver-- I will make it my life-- you do not want to go there. I can understand how Oliver but he's wrong. I may be shrewd, but I never take people's lives. Never. (steady beeping) (breathing deeply) (breathing shakily) (sniffling) (background chatter) (baby crying) (sighing) (breathing shakily) (beeping) (soft music) (sniffling) (soft music) (soft music) (soft music)