The sci-fi genre gives filmmakers ideas beyond the scope of reality. just so far-fetched or heartbreaking that A quintessential '80s family film, Steven the story of Elliott, a little boy who befriends struggles to keep his alien friend a secret, E.T. building a communicator that draws his people E.T. is rescued from government agents with just But in 2017, actor Robert MacNaughton, who played Elliott's brother, talked about &quot;The last scene was going to be all of us playing Elliott's the dungeon master. [...] And then communicator and it's still working -- in other According to MacNaughton, Spielberg and company he watches the spaceship depart was too Whether the alternate ending or just to give audiences the sense that the the ending we got remains one of the 1979's Alien was an instant classic, a sci-fi horror film that has endured Weaver as Ellen Ripley in a career-defining picking off the crew of a long-haul space only Ripley is left alive. But if Scott had In the version of the film we got, Ellen Ripley in an escape pod. In a 2017 interview the director revealed that he had a very different &quot;I thought that the alien should and it makes no difference, so it slams The closing scene would have had the alien &quot;It would mimic Captain Dallas But as Scott described it, were appalled by the ending he'd planned to shoot. &quot;You have my sympathies.&quot; Threatened with being fired, Scott slapped and the rest is history -- including Though it wasn't quite his breakout role, Will Smith's performance in Independence Smith stars as a gung-ho fighter pilot the tentacled invaders from obliterating The multi-pronged assault also involves enlisted to pilot a fighter jet in the own life to get revenge on the aliens destroying their attacking ship in the &quot;In the words of my generation, up yours!&quot; But that wasn't quite how it went down in the Russell volunteers to join the group of pilots, him unfit. When the initial attack fails, however, in the thick of the fight in his crop-dusting Though both versions are played for have felt the sight of the biplane was a bit too in the finished cut Russell is allowed and new scenes were shot with him Another classic sci-fi action movie, John 1950s B-movie, The Thing From Another World. This a helicopter pilot on an icebound research has invaded their Antarctic base. Because paranoia sets in when they realize any one of In the extremely bleak original ending, most MacReady and one other survivor are left to stare which they'll presumably do &quot;Are you the only one who made it?&quot; &quot;Not the only one.&quot; Audiences are left to wonder and led to believe that the But there was another, unseen and would have changed everything. In 2019, Den of Geek explored the deleted and including an extended ending and brought to another research station proving he's human and not an alien imposter, Considering that the film's dreary, uncertain it seems Carpenter made the right Stanley Kubrick had already directed Paths of Lolita when he cast comedian Peter Sellers to star black comedy about the ludicrousness of military nuclear war that destroys the Earth. But Over the years, stories have circulated about act in which the world is destroyed in an atomic alternate ending was said to close out the film the final scene takes the film's comedy to military and political leaders getting into Some may think this is just some wild rumor, of this lost ending have surfaced over the a press photographer who was hired by Not only did he capture incredible images would be the only available evidence of the footage does exist, reportedly Star Trek: Nemesis isn't the only movie in while Star Trek: Generations famously had a it wasn't really that different. In Nemesis, would have shaken up the status quo In the theatrical cut, Captain Picard is the ship. In a pair of scenes he bids farewell a child-like duplicate of Commander Data. The adding a moment in which Dr. Crusher talks with assigned to the Enterprise, having left the ship There's also a deleted gag where a departing Madden in that character's only scene. to impact the future of the franchise, but don't know if Madden's assignment or &quot;Captain Riker was pulling my leg, wasn't he?&quot; In 2002, Trainspotting director which had been thought long dead by He did it by flipping the idea on its head kicking off the zombie craze in The story centers on Jim, a bicycle courier who a deadly plague that has turned unwitting victims sees Jim escape the clutches of a group of apparent starvation. It's implied that he will be When the movie came to DVD, however, it revealed which was fully filmed, Jim succumbs to a gunshot audio commentary for the sequence, writer Alex &quot;He ends up back in the hospital circle. It ends as it begins.&quot; In the second secret ending, which was only Frank, who has become infected with the virus. in a report by Newsweek makes the shocking A wild mix of fantasy, sci-fi, and horror, film from director Sam Raimi. This is hurtled back in time to the Middle Ages. After a wizard who can cast a spell that puts him Once there, he tells his story to a fellow and the film is capped off with a But we only got that ending because In Raimi's first ending to the film, Ash and sleeps for a bit too long. Ash finds himself in a distant post-apocalyptic future where the world has been destroyed Studio execs weren't exactly pleased with a depressing ending, and asked for him to &quot;Name's Ash. Housewares.&quot; Decades later, in the finale of the Raimi finally got to use this ending, with Jordan Peele's Get Out was immediately and wholly unexpected from a first-time comedy. Social allegory wrapped in man named Chris who makes a horrifying The film ends with Chris surviving a violent car shows up, and audiences would have been given the social climate. Instead, Chris' friend But in an interview with Vulture, Peele far more sinister fate for Chris when more along the lines of what viewers &quot;We tested the movie with the original 'sad it's an actual cop and Chris goes to jail. and then it was like we Considering the state of the wanting to give audiences a little &quot;We weren't in the Obama era, we were in this under the rocks again. It was always an so we decided to go back and shoot the pieces If you thought The Thing ended on a down note, it doesn't hold a candle to the final act At the climax of the film, with the monster-filled David gives up all hope and decides to use survivors -- including his son Billy -- just after he does, the mist clears, leaving him with the heartbreaking realization Believe it or not, though, there was almost an of the final scene, things play out mostly point of view that somehow cuts even deeper. &quot;There was one that I swear you ended on Billy waking up and saying you hear a gunshot. And it was so Whether it was because the scene was wanted or because someone simply felt the scene as told from Billy's Ridley Scott may have allowed Ellen Ripley but that didn't stop director David Fincher forward a few years, and Alien: Resurrection clone of the original Ripley, cooked with The movie also brought the franchise to Earth by the threat of a Xenomorph invasion. But its original, alternate ending The film's writer, future Avengers the film actually taking the action to Earth, due to complications during filming that saw the battle with the alien takes place on a starship, far future. In a deleted sequence originally Recalling shades of Raimi's alternate Army Annalee Call land their ship on Earth to find though, the filmmakers chose not to the reason was that the filmmakers just