I'm going to the bathroom and you're driving. Okay, I'm driving. Do you smell a pungent smell? What is it? Everything is normal. It's coming from outside. What's going on? I don't know. I'm driving. Captain, Captain, Captain, are you okay? Jessica, the plane has entered a volcanic ash cloud. This has a fatal impact on the engine. Hurry up and contact the cockpit, Captain Mike. Open the door quickly. I am the pilot Guan Yuqing. Open the door. Captain, be careful. Everyone, stay calm. Don't panic. Fasten your seat belts and protect yourself. Protect yourself. Captain, wake up quickly and fly away from this area. Put on your oxygen mask and make a 180-degree U-turn. If both engines fail, I will be in charge of controlling the aircraft. You will execute the engines. You will execute the engine restart procedures. I will control the emergency call. Emergency call for help. Emergency call for help. This is NW291. The altitude is 34,000. We encountered volcanic ash 30 nautical miles before the waypoint ESARA. Both engines failed. Now make a 180-degree U-turn and apply to leave the RVSM route for rapid descent. NW291. Other aircraft have left your route. Emergency descent to 20,000. Five Thousand Feet will report any further intention to implement the volcanic ash check list at any time. Double engine failure check list. EGT over limit check sheet. EGT over limit check sheet. EGT over limit check sheet. The right engine started successfully. The company dispatched me. I am pilot Guan Yuqing. My license number is 00011998. I am now On flight NW291, we encountered volcanic ash while cruising. We encountered volcanic ash. After disposal and inspection, it was found that the left engine failed. The left engine failed and could not be restarted. Captain Mike suffered a head injury. Captain Mike suffered a head injury and fell into a coma and could not continue flying. I applied for I will take over the captain's duties and choose the nearest suitable airport to divert. Please hold on. The captain's company agrees that you take over NW291. The captain agrees to the diversion control NW291. Request at Kimberley Airport. Request for single-engine landing at Kimberley Airport. Ambulance and emergency fire rescue are needed. NW291 please. Wait a minute. Captain, what should we do? Control NW291. Please answer NW291. Agree to divert to Kimberley Airport. Descend to 10,000 feet. Contact tower 118. 1. Contact tower 118. 1. Emergency rescue is ready. Good luck. NW291 received. Descend to 10,000 feet. ft. Contact the tower 118. 1 Goodbye, prepare for landing, pay attention to collision, fasten your seat belt, don't panic, bend down, lower your head, press hard, our captain is confident of landing safely 07. 27. 39 uC, saved, great, great, great, great, great, great, finally successful. It's over, how could you treat me like this? Why do n't you love your brother so much? I've said so much, don't you understand? We really don't have a need to meet. I came here specifically to find you. You are so cold. You are so cold. It's been one month and eight days since you broke my heart. You broke up when you said we wanted to. Tell me whether you're tired of it or whether you like someone else. I'm sorry. I still have a job. Why are you renting a room again? You did n't say hello to me in advance. I'm noon. Come here 0020c Scumbag, which floor do you want to go to? Dr. Xu, hello. Dr. Xu, hello. Do you have a problem with me? Do you have a problem with me? Come with me. I'll come in and tell you. Please sit down. Which bed are you from? Are you a family member of the patient? What's wrong with the patient? I feel uncomfortable. Show me your medical records. I came here because I felt uncomfortable and you could n't get in. You still have some time. Come sit down and I'll check it for you. Take off your clothes. I just saw a scumbag bullying a little girl and stomping on both of her feet. So I feel very uncomfortable. Do you think this can be cured? It can't be cured, right? Come on, let me help you hear the sound. What is the sound? Heartbeat, is it the human heartbeat? Of course it is, so please remember to be a good person. Don't live up to the white coat you are wearing. This white coat you are wearing is not your fault. I don't know that girl at all. I don't know that girl at all. I don't know Jia Fei at all. You have something to do. It's okay. Please go slowly. Did n't your mother tell you? You don't need to be there. Open a room next to the hospital and let me make soup. It's not like I can't drink anything when I go home. What's wrong? I didn't go to the hospital to find you. I didn't disturb your work. I'm outside the hospital. Why can't I? It's okay, son. Sit down quickly. Sit down quickly. Mom wants to ask you something. What's going on with that little girl named Xiao Jianbao? How do you know her, Xiao Jianbao? Didn't mom tell you? You can't use my name to talk to others. Then what do you want me to do? I 'm just doing it for your own good. You said you didn't care about the blind date and didn't take the initiative, but I didn't say anything to her. She just sent her beauty photos or food photos sometimes. I just gave them to her. She posted a message saying that the little fairy is so beautiful. Sometimes when she is unhappy, I send her a cold joke. When she sometimes suffers from insomnia, I send her soft music or something. That's all. Mom, you haven't said anything yet, so why don't you? You are so good at flirting with these sons to fall in love on the Internet. You are the first person, okay, okay, okay. All in all, mom is thinking about you and I am wholeheartedly doing it for you. I know mom, the soup is cold, hurry up, hurry up, hurry up, don't you want it to be hot? Iron it or not. Slow down. Mom, I won't drink. You drink. You have a daily quota. Come on. You drink well. After the child has finished drinking, change clothes and go with mom. This child, mom, I have to go back to the hospital in a while. Dad is full, right? Then let's go. Let's go. I won't go. I still have two agencies that haven't gone anywhere. I have something to do in the afternoon. Don't make it up for me. You're going to make it up again. I don't know you yet. I've been playing with you all morning. Take a look. Then Who will take over this room from you? Let's stop making trouble and go home, okay? I don't believe it. I can't sell this house yet. Come and see for yourself. There are natural conditions behind this. Look at this girl. How many girls are there in total? Show me and see which one is suitable for you. Which one do you like better? Tell me there are phone numbers at the back. Then we can make an appointment with her. Here are their respective profiles, work, hobbies and so on. It's all up there. You carry it for me. I have to check you when I get back. You know, if you don't, don't deal with me here. I have something really busy in the afternoon. I'm leaving first. No, then whoever comes, I have to pick her up and feed her next week. Schedule, right? On Thursday morning it's Zou Wenwen and in the afternoon it's Yu Peipei. If that doesn't work, then we have to make an appointment until next month. So let's do this first. It's a coincidence. I can make an appointment with you this morning and afternoon. If the schedule is full, I can still make an appointment until next month. According to your agreement, you have to take supplements. I admire your body and it's more important to take supplements. I do this every month. What are you thinking? Thank you, sister. Hello, Zhijun. What's up? Hello, the top ten doctors are being selected in the hospital. These are the three things we don't know. One candidate, one bed, one vote. Welcome everyone to vote enthusiastically. Give a thumbs up to the doctor you are satisfied with. Give a thumbs up to the doctor you are satisfied with. Can I abstain from voting? Why? This Dr. Yang has never been in contact with Dr. Song. I don't know Xu Qingfeng. I don't want to vote for him. Isn't the doctor a good doctor? Why don't you vote for him? Is there anything you want to do with me? It's nothing. She won't vote for you. Whoever you vote for is the freedom of the family members. Go ahead and do your work. Did Dr. Xu, the female family member of 702, come to you last time? Is the office in your office last time ? 702 Yuqing, do you know Dr. Xu? Don't count. The nurse just said that you know each other. Your brother-in-law just called and said that Xu Qingfeng has a knife for cardiac surgery and must be given to him. There are so many doctors for Zhiwu's surgery. Who can he go to? He is the expert who performs this kind of surgery. If you don't go to him, who can you go to? Yuqing, if you know him, go and beg him. I beg him, I won't go. Hurry up. Come on, it's time for you to fly again. You haven't seen anyone for several days. Be obedient and go. Go, be obedient. Go, go, go. Be obedient. Well, you came just in time. I just have something to say to you. Did you see that the other day? I don't know that girl at all. It was my mother who used my mobile phone to chat with her, which caused her to misunderstand. I chatted with her and made her misunderstand. But I don't want to affect the image of the medical staff of this hospital because of my personal affairs. You are in the coffee shop. It's the same as what I saw. It's the same. Your mother helped you fall in love. Your mother helped you fall in love. See it clearly. Wait, then, then, it seems that I did misunderstood before. I'm very sorry. I apologize to you for my behavior. I'm sorry. Actually, I I came here today to think about what I can do for you. 702-bed Chen Zhiwu's surgery. 702-bed Chen Zhiwu's surgery. Can you do it yourself? The surgeries are all arranged by the hospital. I never do anything special. It's not too much to ask for. We have already learned about Chen Zhiwu's tricks. You are a master in this field. You have many successful cases. The cure rate is extremely high. So I hope you will not avenge yourself. Can you consider it? I'm sorry for my month. The surgeries are already fully booked. Besides, the hospital has more than just one patient from your family. There are many more patients. Please don't disturb the normal order of the hospital. I'm sorry. I still have to work. A 36-year-old man died in a car accident. He signed a donation agreement before his death. According to the agreement, all indicators of him and Shi Dawei are consistent. However, the body is too damaged and it is difficult to operate. How about Shi Dawei? He is in Shanghai. You can go to the operation at any time. Liu Ke has applied to our hospital for you to go to Shanghai immediately to help. I checked the ticket, Captain, you are finally back. We are all very happy that you are back. Everyone said yes, yes, yes, hurry up and take out the heart. It must be sent to Shanghai within six hours. Understand that after the operation is over, the only remaining thing is to fly from Beijing to Shanghai. AsiaSingapore Airlines' AX2077 However, the airport will activate the green channel for organ transportation to cooperate with our route support. Keep communicating with the airport at any time. The captain's inspection is completed. 2077 Special circumstances 2077 Special circumstances This flight will have two passengers transporting transplant organs to Shanghai to transport transplant organs. 2077 After receiving the perfusion of cardioprotective solution, we should try to leave as many blood vessels as possible so that there will be more space for anastomosis during the operation on the recipient. Is the refrigerator ready? Are the ice packs ready? You are so awesome that you are ten minutes early. This operation is still possible. There are many links, hurry up and go to the airport. You must be careful on the way. Dr. Xu, Dr. Xu, I hope my husband's heart can continue to beat. My child is about to be born. Although he can't see his father, I hope he can. Please rest assured when you hear your father's heartbeat. I will definitely fulfill your wish. And thank you for your husband's selfless donation | Please, doctor, I'm leaving. I was notified just now that this flight will transport transplant organs to Shanghai. The doctor is on his way here, and we are following the plan. When preparing, remember to appease the emotions of the passengers, be cooperative and go all out. Thank you, Captain. Welcome to Asia Singapore Airlines. Mr. Li. Hello, Mr. Li. Can you please Mr. Li? Do you need something to drink? No, thank you. I won't disturb you. Hello, Miss, please, Doctor Xu. Look, boarding has already started over there. The navigation shows that there will be another 45 minutes of traffic jam. It must be too late. It's past the departure time. When will we take off? Sir, I'm sorry. We have two more. How long will it take for passengers who have not boarded the plane? The specific time will be determined by the tower dispatch. Asia Singapore Airlines is in a hurry. Asia Singapore Airlines, please wait a moment. Sorry, I'm sorry. Asia Singapore 2077 dispatch called 2077 to answer. The doctor encountered a traffic jam and could not arrive on time. The airport has delayed takeoff for half an hour and is waiting for the heart organ. 2077 Good evening to all passengers. I am the captain of this flight. Since this flight is responsible for transporting transplant organs to Shanghai, the medical staff are temporarily unable to arrive at the airport on time. We cannot wait any longer and think of another way. Dr. Xu Where are you going? Very quickly/very quickly. When will you take off? When will you take off? If the plane to transport the organs can't catch up, let them sit on the next one. Is this the case? Mr. Li, because this is the last flight to Shanghai, please. Please be considerate, I am considerate of you, but can you also be considerate of me? My mother-in-law is undergoing surgery. I can't go back. My wife is divorcing me. Can you bear this responsibility? I understand, I understand, I understand, I understand, but our flight will be here soon. Don't worry about taking off. Don't worry about me. I'm asking you to take off immediately. What time will it take off? Can you give me an accurate time? Thank you. It's okay. It's okay. Come on. The captain has a first-class passenger who doesn't agree with the delay. I'm taking off. I'm going to check it out. How many flights do I fly with Asia Singapore Airlines a year? Do you know? Captain Wang Can is explaining to him. OK. I'm very sorry. Mr. Li, what's the point of being sorry? I'm in a hurry. Captain Li, hello. Guan Yuqing, the captain of this flight, is like this. The hospital in Shanghai is now ready for surgery and waiting for the heart. If we take off now, the patient will lose the chance of survival. I think This is not what you want to see, right? I just learned about your situation. You are a person who attaches great importance to family, so I hope to get your support. If necessary, I can call your wife on behalf of the company to explain. I believe I can get her. I understand you. If you call my wife, then I won't have a wife. Okay, okay, don't say so much. I consider myself unlucky, okay. Thank you for your support and understanding. What's going on? Please wait patiently. Hello, Yanxi Hospital. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Xu. What time are you waiting for? This is so annoying. You are so late. I am waiting for you. Sorry for wasting everyone's time. The plane is ready to take off. The plane is ready. We have taken off. Thank you all for your understanding and cooperation. AsiaNews 2077 AsiaNews 2077 Shanghai District Adjustment Radar has identified AsiaNews 2077. Aviation weather warning. There are strong winds and thunderstorms in South China. The front has arrived in Shanghai in advance. Shanghai Hongqiao Airport and Pudong Airport will be closed at 22:00. Please report Your intention is Asia New Zealand 2077 to apply for diversion to Nanjing. Please direct the passengers to receive it. Shanghai Hongqiao Pudong Airport is temporarily closed due to thunderstorms. This flight is expected to be diverted to Nanjing and land in Nanjing. From Nanjing, it will be diverted to Shanghai. There is no time to complete the operation. Dr. Xu, the plane is turbulent. Please return to your seat. I want to speak to your captain. This is against the regulations. Please go back to the plane. If we land in Nanjing, I will divert to Shanghai. This operation cannot be completed at all. This is a matter of life and death. Please wait a moment. Captain, the doctor wants to talk to you. Give him the phone. Thank you, captain. Hello, doctor. Please tell me that this patient in Shanghai has been waiting for this heart for two years. If you Now if the plane lands in Nanjing and I divert to Shanghai, there is no way I can complete the operation. Moreover, the patient's life will be in danger. We don't want to land in Nanjing, but the Shanghai airport closes at 22 o'clock. Even if we fly to Shanghai, air traffic control will not allow any aircraft. The donor of the heart was the captain who landed. He was originally taking his wife for a prenatal check-up today. There was a car accident on the road. He died trying to protect his wife and unborn baby. This heart tysvvyvPP was the expectation of two families. Captain, I really appreciate you. This passenger, please return to your seat and give me some time. Thank you, Dr. Xu. Please sit back first. Thank you, fasten your seat belt. Captain, I am ready for the alternate landing in Nanjing. I will follow your command and wait a moment. The ground is circling well. Director, the patient's blood pressure and blood oxygen are dropping rapidly. The patient can't support his heart. Why hasn't it come yet? The director has contacted the airport. Pudong Airport and Hongqiao Airport are closed due to weather reasons. The plane cannot land. Xiaobai, I need to prepare. Departure to Wuxi, what Wuxi Shanghai 2077, apply for diversion to Wuxi, Shanghai, received a thunderstorm striker, is about to arrive in Shanghai, Wuxi Airport is about to be closed, you only have half an hour, 2077, are you sure you want to divert to Wuxi? Yes, 2077, decided to divert to Wuxi, apply for a high-speed approach, high-speed arrival Captain, I understand. Dear passengers, our plane will arrive at Sunan Shuofang Airport in fifteen minutes. Please fasten your seat belts, put away the tray table, and adjust your seats to normal positions. Please turn off computers and electronic devices. Thank you. 7 is closed. Thank you Dr. Xu. It's too late. We are trying our best. I really want you and the child to hear the beating sound of the heart. Please be the first to get off the plane. The crew has arranged a special channel. I wish you a successful operation. Thank you. Here is Dr. Xu. This is the rescue helicopter company that the captain prepared for you. So what do you say? The man complained as soon as he got off the plane. We did n't let him get off the plane first against his will. Then he said that the flight delay caused him a lot of trouble. It is said that they will not only compensate you but also punish you. The master company just came and notified us that we should return immediately tomorrow after the thunderstorm stops. It seems that you are planning to land in Wuxi. The company's attitude is very strict. Yuqing, why don't we talk to the boss to intercede? I am a machine I'm responsible for the decisions I make. I'm responsible for the leadership. I really want to say that you can't hide. Okay, don't be so sad. There are no obstacles in the world that you can't get over. What's the big deal? Tonight we live in Shanghai and haven't eaten Xiaoyang Shengjian for a long time. Let's go. I'm treating Mr. Guan. Mr. Guan has to take care of all the big things by himself. Come on, that's the case with Yuqing. Your brother went to meet the girl's parents. The marriage was put on the agenda. The ring is fine if you don't pay for it. But You have to help Bao'er solve this house. If we don't have a house, our Bao'er can't get married. Our Bao'er can't get married. I'm going to let go of my old face today and I'll let you spend the money to buy a house for your brother. Are you still a helper? If I don't help you, give me the right words now. Yuqing, your father won't eat or sleep, so he'll be waiting there waiting for you to come back. What should I do? Guan Yuqing, my dear second sister Yuqing, let me tell you, Baoer's marriage can't wait. Dad's attitude is not good. You understand very well that it's not good. I'll guard the door and wait for you to come back. Ask Dr. Xu. Just wait and give me incense. If you can't escape, just wait and give me incense. Can't you escape? Your dad won't eat or sleep. Guan Yuqing is waiting there for you to come back. What should you do? My dear second sister Yuqing, I tell you, you understand dad's attitude very well. Son, why did you suddenly fly to Shanghai? You see, didn't you agree to report it to your mother everywhere? Mom only found out about this after calling the hospital. You don't know how worried your mother will be. Has the operation been completed? Have you eaten? Is it still raining in Shanghai? Can you come back tomorrow? When will you come back? My dear baby, my mother stewed Cordyceps Chicken Soup for you. I asked someone to buy free-range chickens from the countryside. I knew it would be difficult for you to undergo surgery. I kept them just for you. Come back early. Don't make your mother worry all the time. Why don't you reply to your mother's WeChat message? Where are you? You stand up, stand up, let mom look at the bathroom. I've cleaned it for you. By the way, son, remember. I'll go downstairs to the supermarket near you later to buy disposable sheets and quilts. Have you had dinner? Look at it | What time is it? It's so late and you haven't had dinner yet. It's so late and you haven't had dinner yet. It's so late and you have n't had dinner yet. Look, look. Mom is not here. You don't eat regularly. Okay, okay, mom. I told you, hurry up and go to eat. Wait a minute and take a picture of mom while you eat.] Goodbye, my good son. Hello Yuqing. Let me tell you, that VIP's attitude is so tough that even compensation is useless. He just wants to punish you plus Wuxi. As for the forced landing, once your punishment is established, the coach captain you have been fighting for will have no chance. Let's talk about it tomorrow. Go to sleep. Madam, are you feeling uncomfortable? I am a doctor, why is it you? Dr. Xu, what's wrong with you ? Have you been feeling like this for the past two days ? I'm just running, running, running. I just have a stomachache. Let me check it for you. It's okay. It's okay. Press it. Does it hurt? Does it hurt here? Doesn't it hurt? It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Here, right here, right here, right, right, then if I press it hard, will there be any change? The pain is still the same as before in the left lower abdomen. The pain does not get stronger when I press it harder, and there is no change when I press it harder. It means your pain is not pathological, it should be pressure. Intestinal spasmodic pain caused by being too big. Thank you. I'll be fine after just sitting for a while. Let's go. I'll take you to the hospital. I won't go. I won't go to the hospital. How old is it? Why are there people like you who hide their illnesses and avoid medical treatment? Let 's go. I won't go if I don't. Don't go, why are you so troubled? It's not that. I'm sorry, okay, okay. I admit that I am indeed too stressed. Where do you live? I'll send you to the head office. Okay, please let me down. I can walk on my own. I told you to let me go. Come down and I'll ask you again. Are you sure you don't want to go to the hospital? I'm really fine. The training in aviation school was much more painful than this. I can hold on. It's fine. It's fine. Thank you. Come and lift up your clothes. Can you apply the heat? I did it myself. Why is it so hot? Ah, please listen to the doctor and do n't burn you. Hold it for a while. It's very hot. It needs to be hot enough to have any effect. Do n't you think it's too hot? Your hands are hot. Are you okay? Do you feel better? It seems much better. Thank you. How come you're just right? In Shanghai, what kind of pressure did you feel when you went out for a run so late at night ? The doctor asked the patient to answer. Every day when you open your eyes, you feel that you are surrounded by people who need to rely on you. No one can share your burdens with you. No one can help you solve any problem. I rely on myself to hold on. Sometimes I feel a little sorry for myself, but I have no choice. Do you know where the strongest muscle in the human body is? You are right about the heart, but I have seen so many patients and I know how fragile the heart is. Being stronger means that you have to bear more pressure. If you don't deal with it in time, the heart is actually very easy to be injured. So don't wishfully think that being on guard is brave. Showing your true feelings is cowardly. Thank you for telling me this. Of course, thank you for taking care of my abdomen today. The spasm should be nothing serious. Then go to bed early. Good night. Good night. Why are you not married? Dad, you carried me all the way just now. Just now you carried me all the way. I am so happy. How can I let such a good father worry about me? Guan Yuqing always said that I hate that iron cannot become steel, but has she ever thought that iron cannot become steel in the first place? I accept this material, but the only thing I am afraid of is that I will be someone's son-in-law. I will hurt your heart. What? Now that I have decided on the house, I don't want to get married, and I won't get married either. I break up with Beibei. You and Beibei are already talking about marriage. How can you break up just by saying breakup? How can you break up just by saying breakup? I definitely don't agree with you, Dad. It's a lonely life. Without Beibei, I will give up in this life. I will give up in this life. I don't want anyone. If I don't get married, this house will be quiet. What kind of drama can I do with Zhen Lei? Okay, you Just stop pretending, okay? I don't understand you yet. On the surface, we are heart-to-heart. Behind the scenes, you are playing with your brains. What are you thinking about? Guan Yuqing makes me feel so uncomfortable. What else do you want me to do? Do you think my uncomfortable posture is not sincere? Ichijo, he is your biological brother and you are his biological sister. You have to take care of his affairs. Dad, how can I take care of it? | Ever since I was a child, I have had little control. It is like this every time. When he goes out to fight, I am not optimistic about him and whether he will take the exam. He passed the exam and failed the exam because I didn't tutor him well. He fell in love early because I listened to music and led him astray. Why did Guan Zhenlei's problems always become my responsibility in the end? You If this sister is not responsible for her brother, then I, the father, will be responsible for him. I am responsible for him. He and his girlfriend can't even get married now and they have to break up. Her legs have been bruised. You still let me go. No matter what you still do. If you let go, I will give you an ultimatum. What ultimatum? You move these two bedrooms. I have arranged to use them as a wedding house for Baoer. What are you talking about? This house was bought by Yuqing. Who did you ask to move it? Dad, what qualifications do I have to let people move to me? I have already said that I won't get married. I can't do this. We must get married. Lao Guan, dad, please be reasonable, okay? There is no reason for a family. What we are talking about is family affection. You are now When you get used to being majestic outside, you have lost all humanity when you come home. Your dad, let me ask you. You gave birth to a daughter just to raise a son. Is the daughter's existence just to support the son? If you want money, you can do whatever you want. As long as I don't get the money back, I'm cold, unfilial, ungrateful, and inhumane. Isn't that right? You, you are such a bastard. What are you doing? Listen to what Yuqing said. Dad, my mother is here today. I still want to say that I am my eldest sister and my mother. You worked hard to treat her. You worked hard to treat her. You were a good father. But since Zhenlei and I were born, you have completely changed. You only have a son in your eyes. You only have a son in your eyes. I am nothing. You see, you spoiled Zhenlei. If you are delicious and lazy, you ca n't eat the old man who is so relieved. I'll help you move to Laoguan. I don't have to worry about it. I told you last time that I can move out. I'll leave now, rain or shine. Don't leave. Your dad is in a hurry. Sit down and discuss it with your dad, okay? Mom. Where is my place in the family? Take good care of yourself. Lao Guan, look at what you just said. Call Yuqing back to me quickly. Come on. Is everything okay? My legs are all my fault. My legs are my fault. My legs are my fault. Don't hit, don't hit, you, baby, where are you, where are you, just pretend. Is it still hurting here? Is it here? Come on, don't you go after Yuqing, you, just stand. I'm getting medicine, why should I chase Yuqing? I'm going, I hate you two. Please use it slowly. Thank you for saying that my dad's mood is like that. If the stalemate continues, what should I do if something happens? So I can only give in. Your family's scripture is really difficult to read. I'm not much better. My mother wants to get married three times. Sister, I have been single for twenty years. How many times has the sunset turned red? You tell me whether you are convinced or not. Even a highly respected old director of internal medicine has a very rich love life. I was caught off guard. Now he summoned me. When we go back, let me serve her and my three fathers. The children are all nibbled on. We are different. We were nibbled on. The small plane took off against the wind. Maybe we are destined to go against the wind. I often think that my dad and Guan Zhenlei are the same. God sent me to torture me and test my countercurrent. Do n't laugh. Anyway, I will move to the dormitory tomorrow. It's so inconvenient to cook and wash clothes there. My mother has an apartment at Yanxi Expert Apartment that is still vacant. Why do n't you move there? Just think of it as helping me guard the house. Don't refuse. Sisters are reliable. Of course, thank you. Just stay in the hotel temporarily tomorrow. How about we find a free labor force to help you move your things? Aunt Xu What are you doing? What are you doing? You're so old. What if you fall down? My son is sleeping. Ever since I got this bird's nest, this little bird has been chirping every day. He keeps chirping. My son's bedroom is too close. You know he is a doctor. He works from morning till night and it's very hard. He can't rest at all. He doesn't rest well. You understand, and you should take care of it. Oh, why did he just say no? It's under your control. Aunt Bird, how can I disturb your son? I'll move it myself. Aunt Xu, come down. Come down. Come down. Come down. We'll help you move it. We'll help you move it. It's under your control Returning to the management, management, management, management and management management, it should be attributed to you. The birds are noising you. Mom, don't think too much about it. The transplant center has been opened. I live in a specialist's apartment to go back and forth to the hospital. It's convenient. Then don't be mom when mom brings you food. Our hospital has a new deputy director in charge. The deputy director in charge, you keep running to the hospital. Isn't this a bad influence? I want to leave a good impression on others. I can't make phone calls while driving. I hung up. Hey, this child. Yuqing sent a message and asked a colleague to come over and help her move in a while. Help her carry her luggage. You let her carry it. Never go home. What are you doing? She is our daughter. She is not an enemy. Why are you acting like this? She treats us as enemies. I asked her to help her brother. Look at her attitude. This is to sever ties with the Lao Guan family. What's going on with her these days? If she can make money and have skills, she can disown all her relatives. She Yuqing wants Zhenlei to learn to be independent. That's right. How can you be a father like you? You have to force your sister. I paid for my brother to buy a wedding house. I have been looking for her to find a partner. I hope she will live well. What happened? Are you Aunt Liu and Uncle Guan's house? Yes, come in. Aunt, please come in. You are Aunt Guan, Uncle. My name is Sun Xiaobai. I am Captain Guan's colleague. Today I am here to help her move. Today I am here to help her move. Are you? I am a colleague of the chief shutdown officer. I am uncle. How old are you? What is your position? Uncle, my name is Sun Xiaobai, height is 185, age is 28 years old, job is co-pilot, I have four years of driving experience, I am single and plan to get married in two years, I said you are moving here. Or is it a blind date? Or is it a blind date? Captain Guan is really capable of getting a colleague. She doesn't even want to see her father's face. No uncle. No uncle. Captain Guan has to teach new students today. I really don't have time to come here. Why do n't I? I came here to shut down the phone for her. The things haven't been packed yet. It's been two days. It's okay. Uncle, I hired a very professional moving company to pack the boxes and provide one-stop service. You don't have to do anything. Auntie, where is the room where the aunt shut down the phone? That one is in there. I'll take it with you. You go and do n't move. Auntie, Captain Shun told me not to let you two move. If Chief Shutdown finds out, he won't be able to spare me. If there 's nothing wrong with my aunt, I'll leave first. Okay, thank you for your hard work. Why don't you move this chair too, aunt? The leader said not to leave anything behind. Uncle, I'm leaving. Auntie, I'm leaving. You are a tough guy who is tougher than stainless steel. I haven't even called you for several days. You gentlemen, please come over here. Thank you for your choice. Menu waiter. Okay? What a coincidence. Hello, this and this nice bowl of rice. You, this nice bowl of rice. Thank you for the braised lion head with musu meat and the spicy tofu. Sorry to bother you. That spicy tofu and that meatball should be. My bar. Your dishes are all the same. They are fried in one pot. Hello. Is there any room? Hello, please wait a moment. Excuse me, sir and madam. Can we share a table? It's so funny that you brought the dishes here and ordered the dishes for us. You come here often. No, I just moved here, so today is the first time here. I also just moved out. You moved out and lived alone. Last time you were there. In your family, I feel that you are a person who attaches great importance to family. It's a bit surprising. You have been to our house and know the situation of our family. So it is reasonable for me to move out. Not every family is harmonious. Sometimes, for them, I don't necessarily appreciate you if you pay too much. Anyway, it's fine to live by yourself. I agree with you. Some parents only live for their children, but their children have to do things their way. If something doesn't go their way, the children themselves will feel guilty first. The weight of love is too heavy, so you came out to loosen the ties. These dishes are delicious. Walk slowly. Welcome to visit next time. Bye. Are you okay? I'm fine. Then why did you follow me from the restaurant to here? I'm very surprised. Why are you following you all the time? But I am really going home. You live here, No. 701, Building 2, Expert Apartment. I live in Building 2, 702. Really, we worked together for a long time. We are neighbors. We are across the street from each other. We don't even have a needle or thread. What should I do? Are you bothering me? Do you have a needle and thread at home? Lend me some. What's wrong? My coat is untied. Come in here. Just bring me the needle and thread. Come on in. You have these tools and I feel like you're going to have an operation soon. Can you use this to sew clothes? It's called vertical varus suture. It's so professional. You can't make any mistakes during the operation, so you need to practice more with sewing clothes. Of course, it's not like sewing grape skins under a magnifying glass. That's your surgeon's unique skill, right? There's also sewing. The blood vessels in chicken wings, the intima of eggs, and the restoration of banana peels to their original shape are all basic skills of a surgeon. But these are much easier than sewing blood vessels, because sewing blood vessels is never allowed to fail. I think it is very difficult when I hear it. I really admire you guys, try it. Thank you for your effort. You're welcome. Why do you still have these at home? This is what I usually make. You did it so well. I'm so sorry to give it to you. Anyway, I live right across the street and I don't have far to go. Good rain and clear weather. I went out to the supermarket today. I bought a new product, NFC orange juice, cold pressed fresh fruit, tried it myself, and I tasted it. There is one on the table. Let me ask you something. Are you particularly concerned about Xu Qingfeng? Isn't this called caring? Then I have a strong father. He has You're a strong mother. What do we call cherishing each other? What do you call cherishing each other? Why don't we give each other a chance to try something? Try it. I'm fine by myself. Why should I cause trouble for myself? Go away, are n't you? I'm worried about him. I'm not worried about him. It 's his father who is worried about him. So I can't help him. His father is worried about him. It's none of your business. Then I'm afraid that if he gets irritated, he won't be able to figure it out. There will be one less patient in this society. What a loss to our good doctor! Go, go, go, you can pull me down. Are you coming and going? Why are you coming? Instead of being restless, why do n't you go to the other side and knock on the door to confirm for yourself. I'm knocking on the door just in case the Huo family is home. It's okay. I'm so embarrassed. Don't make a fuss. Can't you make excuses? Go, hurry up and open the door. Don't make a fuss. Come on. Come on. Why? Knock on the door. Just ask. What's wrong? Do you have a hair dryer at home? Let me use it. Wait a minute. Thank you. Is there anything else? I asked directly. Since I was entrusted by someone, there must be an answer. I will not leave Yanxi Hospital for the time being, which means that you have reconciled. But the relationship between Director Gao and I is only between the doctor and the director, but no matter what I have to say thank you for staying. I'm very tall. I'm very happy for you to stay. Thank you. Thank you. Shut down, sir. Sir, you're here too. Lend me a hair dryer. I bought fish and I'll steam it for you tonight. Captain, thank you for taking care of my boyfriend while I'm away. My boyfriend is officially in love with us now. So if he drinks too much next time, please contact me. Congratulations. Thank you. But I shouldn't get drunk again in the future. I'll keep a close eye on him and won't let him drink anymore. I really can't drink so much. Then I'll go in first. Come on, come on. How about it? Not only is everything fine, but it's also very good. I'm just worrying about it. I'm going to bed. You put on your clothes. Please help me dry NEF6372 C. Master, wait for me. Master just saw you shopping in the terminal building and someone asked you to leave before you could buy anything. This is the bird's nest you buy for your parents every time, right? Thank you. I'll transfer the money. If you don't use it, just think of it as me honoring our parents. I can't take it from you for free, Jussie. You are my master and you should honor our parents. Your parents are my parents. Hurry up and accept it. This is an order. You want me to accept it. You can, but you have to let me take you home. It doesn't matter. It's very convenient for me to take the commuter bus, so just let me take you. You've already been flying for more than ten hours. It's more comfortable to take this car. It's okay. Driver Sun is very considerate. It just so happens that the lady has both legs. It hurts. I'll sit here. You go away. This seat is either for the boss or for my future girlfriend. You are nothing. Hurry up and go away. What's the big deal? Let's take the bus. I won't sit down. What's wrong? Is your hand okay? Check if there are any injured bones. Is it okay? Let's go to the hospital. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to leave. I'm sorry. Xiaobai's skin injury is nothing serious. Just put some medicine on it and go back to rest for a few days. If the pain persists, come back to the hospital for a follow-up visit. Thank you, doctor. Thank you, doctor. Did you hear that? It's nothing serious. Did you hear that? He pinched his hand with his lips and said, &quot;Please mind me, go get the medicine. You two sit for a while. You accompany him, I don't want her to accompany you. Bye bye, you can stop this medicine. Reduce the medicine by five milliliters. Shut down the machine. What a coincidence. What a coincidence. Dr. Xu. Then I Went up first. Why are you here? Are you feeling uncomfortable? One of my colleagues has injured his hand, so he came to take a look. So he came to see Master Guan Yuqing. Where did he take the medicine ? Where did he take the medicine? Where did he take the medicine? I did n't ask you to wait for me. Is it all bandaged up? It doesn't hurt. Turn off the phone. Captain, are you here too? This is your boyfriend. You think it's a good match for you, right? Let's go back and eat tonight. I'm leaving now. Bye, bye, bye. Goodbye. Master, what are you doing? Enough trouble. Without Master, I can't help you bring that male doctor back. To save face, you have to bring him back. Don't say that. It's useless. Dr. Xu is still so handsome in a white coat. Is he as handsome as me? Do you want to be so gossipy? 8 Tian, 86 H 9. O m No one comes out to look at me. Lao Guan Lao Guan, I cut your belly today. Why are we making meatballs after drinking at night ? I don't know how Bao'er is doing with such a gloomy face. Are you tired of waiting on the old and the young? It's not you. I just know that I'm thinking about your son. Don't forget that we still have two children. As for my daughter, let 's talk about your son going to Li Bei's place to take care of her parents. That's what your son was rushing to do. The father is worried when the son travels a thousand miles. The father has nothing to worry about when he travels a thousand miles. 8 m H 6. 3 5 m 4. 6 Do you see how it hangs on the tree? Yeah, where is it? This is Djim H O m You said such an expensive thing, you can't pay attention, hurry up and look for it, this way, this way, this way, it may be this way, quickly, quickly, it may be this way, quickly, quickly. It's hanging on the tree. Look, don't break it. Why is there still something? Yuqing is here. Look, Yuqingyu. Yuqing. Where are you? Yuqing, girl, you are so partial to others. Yuqing still wants you to reconcile with your daughter quickly. Howl, son. If you don't show up and you make me unable to even see my daughter, how can we reconcile? Are you still asking me, an old man, to bow down to her? Besides, if she doesn't help her brother's marriage, it's her fault in the first place. You're right. You're right. It's all my fault, okay. I shouldn't have given birth to this son in the first place. I worked so hard to raise him to be raised by my in-laws. She is still a daughter. A good daughter is her own Yuqing. This stubborn girl is already tired from work and she has to come all the way. It would be nice to run and finish the meal before leaving. My dear, I won't go look for you tonight. My mom and my stepdad are celebrating their wedding anniversary today. I have to help her make arrangements. Got it? Hey mom, Yuqing, look at you silly kid. Come to the door. What are you hiding from? Just come home. I just want to stop making dad angry. Out of sight, out of mind. It's okay. I'll go see you in two days. Look at you two. I can't persuade anyone, but Yuqing, you are like this. The bird's nest I bought is too expensive. Why should my family eat such expensive bird's nests? Ordinary ones will be fine. Maybe I asked my colleagues to help me buy the wrong ones. I'll ask if I bought them wrong. But what's wrong with my mother eating some expensive ones, right? If you are in good health, you will eat well. By the way, how are you doing now? We are all doing well. Don't worry. You should also take care of your health. Okay. I'll stop now. Hey Master, the bird's nest you bought is expensive. What 's the price difference of that one? Since it's to honor our parents, it doesn't matter how much it costs. Master, what's wrong with you? It seems like your voice is not right. No, maybe you're a little tired. But I have something to do, what do you have to do? I don't even have money for food, auntie. This leather jacket is so good. What do you think? Is it the motorcycle style or the lambskin Qingfeng ? It's just right to wear in the morning and evening at work. This dress is so fashionable. Qingfeng is a doctor. You must have the poise of a doctor in your dress and your words and deeds, right? Aunt Leatherless, if you If you feel calm, then let's go with this one. See how it goes with a shirt underneath ! No, no, no, no, no, this looks too old-fashioned. Hello, waiter, come over here. Can you get this for me? I want one of these. I want size L. Okay, please wait a moment. Thank you. Ah, let me tell you, Lin Jie, our Qingfeng, since we were little, our minds have been filled with nothing but study and work. From the inside out, from top to bottom, I have organized everything for him. By the way, I have to get him some pairs of socks. I know Auntie, I'm going to get Auntie's socks. I've already chosen them. I've chosen them. OK, let's check out. These are our clothes, right, come on, come on. These are all what we want. Knot them together. Do you want them all? Yes, yes. Let me first take a look at how long I can wear these socks. Can Qingfeng wear this color? How expensive is this? These socks are too expensive. Can Qingfeng wear them? Okay, okay, just these few pairs I have. That's all. Alipay or WeChat. Come on WeChat, come on, come on, I come, I come 1 It's okay, auntie. I'll let Qingfeng give it to you. Pack it all up. Now that we've finished shopping, let's go back quickly. Qingfeng's time to come back. We have to cook for him. Auntie, welcome to visit us next time. Well done. Thank you, thank you, thank you. You've been tired all afternoon. I've booked a restaurant. Let's have dinner together tonight. Call Qingfeng Lin Jie. You've booked a restaurant. It's not such a big deal. Why don't you discuss it with me? No, I don't know about you either. Book that place. Qingfeng, do you like food? What should I do if you say you don't like it? Where did you book? Come on, I'll cut it for you. That's great. Master, if it weren't for you, I would have starved to death tonight. How could I have ended up like this? Ah, my mother wanted to introduce me to a blind date and I refused. Then she confiscated my credit card and bank card. Now I have nothing but a big house. Do I also have a salary card? I have paid the utility bills for such a big house. There is nothing left except a pair of injured hands, and I can't make ends meet now. Master, you have to treat me to dinner more often, okay. I don't care if half a month is enough for you. That's great. Thank you, Master. Breeze. Come and have some. Steak. Thank you for this fork. I haven't used it yet. You want to eat a piece. Thank you. What kind of beef is this? What kind of steak is this? It's too fishy. It doesn't taste good. This is okay. I don't think so. I'll try it. Auntie, do you like seafood pasta? Can I give you another one? No, no, don't pay the price. If you eat that seafood and you're as old as me, you ca n't digest it. I won't eat it. I'll watch you eat. You eat it. Please don't. Why don't you just take a look at the menu? Waiter, no, no, no, no. Why do n't you look at the key to Qingfeng's home? I didn't bring the key with me. I'm going back. Please be safe on the way. Where's the remote control board at home? I'll go back to watch TV and wait for you. It's at the TV cabinet. No, I, I. I 've been rummaging here and there but I haven't done anything today. I saw it before I went out. Forget it, let's pack the vegetables and go back with my aunt. What's worth buying? What does this meat taste like? It's not worth spending so much money. What's going on? Go to the kitchen and be a mother. Come home. I'll go to the kitchen and be a mother. I'll do it. I'll go and check out. Hello sir. Thank you for your receipt. Welcome to visit next time. Hello. Pay the bill. Can you give me this? Yes. What do you want it for? It's for babies. Don't you know that there is a baby living in every woman's heart? Come on, aunt, hello, aunt. It's such a coincidence to turn off the phone. It's such a coincidence to turn off the phone. This is a little boyfriend, okay, okay, this is a new choice for older women, okay, someone is chasing me. Your dad can rest assured. Auntie, you are busy taking care of your own family's affairs and also the neighbors' affairs. It's very hard for you. It's also very hard for you. Your balloons are so cute. Your balloons are so cute. Were you dating before? Say it's not your boyfriend who agrees with you 2 I'm trying to pursue you. This time doesn't count as a date, so it wo n't necessarily happen next time. It's like we are lucky on the seventh floor. Looking for peers is the best choice. If you are an outsider, why are you struggling to fit into the circle? Outsider, why are you trying so hard to blend in? She can't blend in. She can't blend in. Auntie, you're right. It's really too difficult. Come on, Qingfeng. Thank you, auntie, drink some water. Okay, okay, just leave it there. To be honest, come home. I feel better. What's the name of your restaurant? The ventilation in the restaurant is not good at all. It makes me feel chest tight and short of breath. Really, Lin Jie, next time you order a restaurant, you can't order it online. You can't trust them. Remember, Auntie, she won't do this in the future. The online rating is quite high. I'll cook you a bowl of noodles. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can't quite understand the pots and pans here, right? If I want to eat, it's getting late for me to cook for myself. If you don't After eating, go back and rest early. Lin Jie and I still want to chat for a while. It's getting late, right? You know it's getting late, right? You have something to say that we can't talk about tomorrow, right? Lin Jie, your parents don't care if you come home late, okay? My father and mother are more open-minded. No matter how much they are, I am not as open-minded as your parents. To be honest, my child has big things and small affairs. I worry to death. Really, you guys can talk about it. I am just in time to clean up the house. I bought clothes today. Ah, socks, etc. I've been through the water. You guys can talk. I won't disturb your mother. Are n't you going to cross the water? Yes, yes, yes. I've been through the water. What do you want to say to me? Thank you for spending the afternoon shopping with my mother. By the way. Why are you transferring the money for that dress? I bought it as a gift for you. Can I take the money? If you feel sorry for it, just give me a gift, okay? Auntie, what am I going to get? What am I going to get? This is it. You have to eat something every day, right? Do you want to eat apples? The vegetables are very oily today. I will get you an apple to relieve your tiredness. Mom, we just drink water. Lin Jie, let me show you something. What are you looking at? Yeah, here you are, you let me in, you let me in, I just read a book for a while, you will understand when I ask you to come in, you will go in. Such a big girl is not reserved at all, she is still outside, why is she even closing the door ? This is called Lin Jielin. Auntie Jie, I am a seller of rags. He refuses to return the goods to me. How should I deal with this situation? I guess the seller should have taken a break at this late hour. Auntie, please send me this link and I will help you deal with it tomorrow morning. It's early. Auntie must be responsible for your safety. Look at the breeze. I'm too tired after working all day. He can't see you off. I'll call you a taxi. No, no, no, no. It's okay. It's okay. I'll call you aunt myself. I'm going back first, aunt, no, it's not me calling you a cab. The car didn't come. You wait for a while. No, no, auntie, I can call it myself. No, no, no, no, no. I have to call a cab for you. I have to call a cab for you. Look, I'll give it to you. You call a car, don't worry, don't worry, Auntie, I'm leaving, Lin Jie, you don't have to see me off, I won't see you off, please be safe. I'll see you off here. I'll see you off here. Goodbye, bye, bye. I think Lin Jie is very good. Now when I meet her, I feel that she is not good at all. She spends money lavishly and you have no taste at all when buying things. The key is that you are too proactive in the relationship between men and women. You said it is so late and she is not leaving. Why is she not leaving? Ah, she thought, is n't it too casual? Mom, I feel that through contact with Lin Jie, this person is very nice and proactive towards me, and we have a common language. I decided to continue dating her for the purpose of getting married. What about my son? What about you and me? You said this, this, this marriage can never be a child's play, you can't be like this, you can't be like this, Lin Jie, she can't do it, you have to investigate her, and say, didn't you highly recommend her before? Did n't you say you like her? Yes, but my mother was really serious at that time. It's late. After finishing the wet clothes, you should go back and rest early. I still have to read the information. No, son, listen to my son. You listen to me. How many days have I been in contact with the purpose of getting married? Really, Lin Jie, I don't think so at all. It's not suitable for you and it's not suitable for our family. This is your third glass of water. Don't you panic? Master, I ate too much steak today and it's hard to digest. I just have one last glass. I haven't taught you a lesson about the nonsense you just talked about here. You can't do this anymore. It's not Master. The whole family is running against you. I can't stand it anymore. I was helping you bring some noodles. Help me bring some noodles. There 's no need. I just thanked you for drinking. After drinking, hurry up and leave. What time is it? Let's take a sip. Master, why don't we watch a movie? There 's no TV here. What time is it? Don't watch it. Just watch one. Do n't make trouble. Just watch one. Give it to me. Did I hurt you? It's okay. The injury is not serious. Your injury is not serious either. What's going on? It's okay. It's fine. Master. Actually, I want to stay, right? You agree? Okay, no, no, no, no. Is n't this the reason why you stay? Master, I've been tired all day. Can you please let me relax? Of course not. Since you want to be a captain, you should have a plan to become a captain. I have a plan. My plan is to be your only royal co-pilot. Ah, you don't know the regulations of civil aviation? Come here. This is a course for the new model of Y12E. After you have a solid grasp of the theory, I will arrange for you to do simulator training and this field training and this field training. You see, this is the seat I just took. The water patient Qiao Yuanyuan is only ten months old. She has a complete endocardial cushion defect with multiple and serious lesions, and has already developed pericardial effusion. If the operation cannot be performed in time, it can easily lead to heart failure. The operation is currently scheduled for this Wednesday. I am the surgeon, Dr. Yang Ming and Dr. Lin Jie. Dr. Yang Ming and Dr. Lin Jie cooperate with me. Hello, Dean Gao, do you have anything to do with me? Yuqing, Qingfeng has stayed in Yanxi during this period, and it is quite stable. I really am. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You don't have to thank me. You have thanked me many times. Didn't I say that Dr. Xu stayed in the hospital all because of you? Anyway, I owe you a debt of gratitude and I will remember it firmly. Yuqing, how is your relationship with Qingfeng recently ? It's still like that. We are just acquaintances. But I still think you two are a perfect match. Do you want to try again? Dean Gao, Dr. Xu and I are the two of us. The neighbors who live in the expert apartment actually have nothing to do with each other. I understand, but I still want to express some of my gratitude to you. If you need my help with anything, just ask. In fact, I really have something to do here. I want to ask you, my father. I said before that my heart is not feeling well. Can you please take the time to come and have a look? Of course, I am very happy. That would be great. Thank you. Who is it? Come on. Mom, Yuqing is here. Look at you. You said you are here. Why didn't you see your parents when you came home this time? See your parents for a moment. Are you in good health? You 're fine. I'll call you Lao Guan. Lao Guan Yuqing is here. Come out quickly. Lao Guan, Dad. Two days ago. You still don't want to come to the door? Why can't you talk nicely because of the compliments today? By the way, Director Gao of Yanxi Hospital promised me that he would come to see my dad this weekend. You have to make time. Invite the director of the hospital to your home. How much does it cost for dad to see a doctor? It's not about money. I just did him a favor some time ago. It's considered a favor. Lao Guan, you see how much your daughter cares about your illness. The chief director of the hospital even invited the chief director of the hospital to come to your home. Don't keep getting angry with your daughter when you see a doctor. I'm in good health. I don't need to look at you. Who are you? I've been nagging all day long about my heart aching and panting. It's uncomfortable to talk now. If you don't look at me, why don't you look at it? Anyway, Guan Zhenlei is getting married soon. Wait till then. When I give birth to a grandson, I don't know who will take care of it. I don't know who will take care of it. Okay. Anyway, I have nothing to do on the weekends and I just reject people casually. Good dad, you can't change. Qingfeng, I 'm bothering you. I'm taking up your precious rest time. Dean Gao, you're too polite. I really didn't expect you to agree to my personal request. In my opinion, treating patients does not distinguish between rest or working time. It does n't involve any personal feelings. That's right. There is no distinction between public and private in practicing medicine. Dean Gao Yuqing, Dean Gao, you are here. Hello, hello, Dean Gao. Come in. Come in. Come in. Come in. Please let me introduce this person to you. This is Dr. Xu Qingfeng from the Cardiac Surgery Department of Yanxi Hospital. Dr. Xu has very rich clinical experience. He is currently the best deputy chief physician in our Cardiac Surgery Department. He is so talented at such a young age. I will make you some tea. Thank you, Auntie. Thank you, Dr. Gao. Special thanks to Dr. Xu. Why don't you go there in person to ask who is feeling unwell? My dad, what newspaper are you reading here? Come on, I won't let him read it, so what's the matter with you? It's hard for that doctor to come here. Isn't it that Xu Xiulan went around bragging about her son's surgery and asked her son to show me a knife? Why not give her a face? I don't want him to see it. Dad, you are too funny. Look. Doctors don't care who the hell they are. Face is more valuable than fate. Let's go. That Dr. Xu is very good. He cured Zhiwu's disease by surgery. Moreover, he is a doctoral student at Union Medical College and only spent thirty years writing his thesis after graduation. Many of those eleven articles have been published in the four top medical journals and have made significant contributions in the cardiovascular field. What is your relationship with him? What is your relationship with him? He also carries resumes for others. He carries them for others. I have a resume. I really need to hurry up and drink tea. Since it was recommended by Dean Gao, right? BEANPOLC. Dr. Xu must be a bit capable, so you will suffer today. But today, don't tell your mother about me when you go back. This is a doctor-patient relationship with you. It has nothing to do with my mother. Here are your medical records and films, right? Come on. Let's start the measurement. Please don't move or talk. This is the last doctor's diagnosis. This is a B-ultrasound. This is B-ultrasound, this, and this, and this, and this. BEANPOL, end of measurement, high pressure 14. Have you had any chest tightness, chest pain, or difficulty breathing recently? Have you seen a doctor? I feel short of breath, but nothing is wrong with you. I'm not as serious as they said. BEANPOL. You ask the doctor to tell you. Just say a few words. I'll listen to your heart rate, heart rate, and blood pressure. Both are normal. Heart rate and blood pressure are normal. Your blood pressure is still normal. You don't have to worry too much. Look at what I'm saying, right? You just treat me like a sick person. But for hypertension and coronary heart disease, you should take medicine on time. Avoid big fish and meat. Avoid smoking and quit drinking. If you feel uncomfortable, don't tolerate it. If you feel uncomfortable, don't bear to go to the hospital and seek medical treatment promptly. The most important thing is to control your emotions and keep your mood comfortable. I hear you, don't make me angry. I hear you. Control your emotions and rely on your own mentality. Adjust aEAHPOL by yourself. In many cases, it is yourself. Make yourself angry. Dr. Xu, you said he is fine, so we can rest assured. Let's have tea. Dean Gao, you or Dr. Xu, who has an acquaintance with the obstetrics and gynecology department? I, okay, okay, you and that little boy are developing so fast, what kind of little boy? What little boy ? Where is the little boy? Dad, don't ask blindly. Dad, do n't ask blindly. Why are you asking blindly? I'm asking for my daughter-in-law to find out that my son is getting married. Dad, you are really teasing yourself. You still worry about your son Baoer sooner or later. I have to make early preparations and arrangements for the birth of a child. Dean Gao, Dr. Xu, you have a day off today and asked you to run home. It's time for dinner. Let's have a quick dinner at home. Do n't bother me. We'll be leaving soon. It's no trouble. I really don't bother to have a meal, come and sit, sit and sit, it's raining and clearing, please help mom, no mom, just sit down, I'll do it, mom, sit down and rest, it can't always be the old people taking care of the children. Some housework can be done by young people. Yes, Qingfeng. Go and help Yuqing. No need to sit, sit, sit, sit. I can do it on my own. It's okay. Auntie, where is the bathroom? I'll take you there. It's in there. You, drink tea, okay. What are you doing in our hospital? The captain asked me to help with surgery. Gold fingers are very valuable. You'd better go out and stay. The captain's hands are also very valuable. There are fish. I'll make the fish. Can you cook it ? Is there any flour? Mom, where is that noodle? It's on the upper left side of the range hood. There's a cupboard in the corner. There's a spoon in the cupboard in the upper left corner. Thank you just now. You said you need an obstetrics and gynecology doctor, right? Is the date set? No, no. Then you guys chat first and I'll help the child. Okay. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, sit down, sit down Let young people do these things and let them have more contact. Is this right? Is the date set for this? It's a little early. But we parents understand each other, right? You also have such a day to wait for your children. When you get older, we can't marry you in advance, right? First, tell me that your illness hasn't affected you yet, it hasn't affected you yet, okay. I always thought your mother took good care of you. You can't cook. I can cook. It's just my mother. When I was at home, I didn't have a chance to practice and taste it. Wait a minute, Lao Zhang, Lao Liu, he was full of praise for Lei Lei today, yes, yes, everyone said that Lei Lei did really well, and they said that Lei Lei looked like me. As handsome as ever, he also said that this kid is smart and can do things. Lei Lei, let me come. Mom, don't move. Don't move. Mom, don't move. Don't move. Baby, don't move. I can do this little thing myself. You should do whatever you want. Don't worry about me. Lei Lei, please pay attention. Ah, I 'm not afraid if these cups and bowls are broken. The main thing is don't prick you. Don't worry. Dad, be careful. Thank you for your hard work. My child is such a good boy. Don't tell me why I'm a little dizzy after drinking this wine. ( I have to go back to the house and lie down for a while. I told you to drink less. Let's see if you are happy. Dad, I helped you. I helped you. Stop. What's wrong? Come out. What are you doing? Who asked you to come? Is this the place where you came? Stay in the living room. Go to you. Go to my wife. Eat some fruits after meals. Eat some fruits after meals. What do n't you want to eat? If you don't want to eat, you have to take some vitamins. I'm full of gas. What vitamins should I take ? Are you angry? I'm still angry. Why are you so angry? Who are you angry with? Classmate Li Bei You are getting more and more naughty now. You turned a deaf ear to my words, right? You have to confront me, right? I told you that you must be punished now, otherwise you can't remember that I will still be punished. What punishment will I accept? What kind of punishment do you still have to accept? I'll stretch out my corporal punishment hand and show it to you. Let me see what you want to do. You said your girl's hands. How can you wash the dishes with your girl's hands? Go into the kitchen and touch the cold water. How cold is that water? Oh, let's not talk about the cold water. Do you know what's in the dishwashing liquid? It's all chemicals that have damaged your hands. What should you do? After that hand comes in, you are not allowed to enter the kitchen again without my consent. You are not allowed to enter the kitchen again. Don't wash the dishes anymore. I heard you protect these little hands for me. They are white and tender. These are my little hands, Guan Zhenlei's wife. Come on, let me give you a hand massage. I'll give you some hand massage too. Husband, you are really good. Okay, I want to protect myself, and you have to protect yourself for me. The two of us will be together for a lifetime. I want your little hands to be so tender for a lifetime. No wrinkles can grow. Aunt Qingfeng, are you here? Qingfeng hasn't made a visit yet. He's back. He's on a medical visit. Then how did you get in? He gave me the key. He gave the key to you. This kid, you are not you. He gave you the key. Why didn't you tell me? Why didn't you tell me? Ah, this is so tight. The suddenness shocked me as soon as I entered. I thought a bad guy came in. I thought a bad guy came in. No, Lin Jie, don't you have to go to work today? I have a day off, so I thought about helping him tidy up the room and prepare some for him. For food, you tidy up his room. You tidy up his room. This is what you prepared for him. You bought him bread for breakfast. There are also dumplings and dumplings that he can use as a supper. There are also ham and lunch meat. Lin Jie and the like. Eating things for a long time is not good for your health. You are a doctor. Don't you understand this common sense? I thought he was fine. It's okay. I'll pack these things away later. You can take them back and eat them yourself. Because Qingfeng doesn't eat these things, I usually give him fresh eggs. Fresh milk, fresh eggs, fresh milk, fresh fruits and vegetables. I eat them now and buy them now. It doesn't matter. You can take them back later. Where is the cleanup? Can you return it to his room? I took a look at his room and tidied up his wardrobe. You hung these clothes. These clothes are hung wrong. The color should be from light to dark. The color should be from light to dark. From thin to thick. From left to right. Outer shirt, pants, underwear, each has its own place. If you mess up the order, Qingfeng can't find it. I'll hang it again. No, no, no, no, let me come. Where else are you cleaning? I looked at the bathroom and wiped it. Lin Jie, you have used the toilet, toilet, me. You should lift up the toilet seat after using it. You are a doctor. You know the bacteria on it. Many of us never let the breeze touch the toilet seat. After that, I learned about this. This toothpaste is a German brand. It can protect the gums. Our colleagues especially like to use this. This is so good. That's OK. If it's really like what you said. Then I won't throw it away, you can take it back and use it yourself, because our Qingfeng's gums are not defective, and he insists on using domestic brands. Where is the cleaning? Auntie, do you still support me and Qingfeng? You want me to support you. You have long wanted to kick me. I'm kicked out, right? Auntie, you misunderstood me. I followed your instructions. I just wanted to take better care of him. Follow my instructions. What a great excuse. Lin Jie, I've always been optimistic about you. Why did you treat me like that? God, you have changed your face. There is no me in your heart at all. I didn't say anything. I can see everything you say and do these days. Why do I teach you so patiently? Why do you think about everything about my food, clothing, housing and transportation? According to your thoughts, you don't respect me at all. Do you know him better than me? Do you know him better? How many years have you known him? How many years have I known him? I definitely can't compare with you. Stop talking. You are so disappointing to me. Well, what are you doing? Put this key down. Also, your relationship with him depends on me and I don't think well. Then I'll observe you carefully. Auntie, you liked me a lot before. Why is Qingfeng right now? If I'm better, you can't accept it. Is it Qingfeng who is looking for a girlfriend or are you looking for a girlfriend? What do you mean? What do you mean? Do you think that your position in Qingfeng's heart is higher than mine? I will eat yours. Are you jealous? It's so funny. I'm a [ __ ] person. Can you compare with me? It's so funny. You are like an aunt. You are sick. Who do you think is sick? It's so uneducated. Is a female Ph.D. reading a book in vain? Are you staring at me? Well, do you want to eat me? Do you think Qingfeng should not be as good as me? Mom, do you think you should do whatever you want to do now? It's so scary. You are so scary. I didn't expect you to be so powerful. You, you. It's really timely to expose it now, otherwise I'll regret it, you know? Don't say anything. Why are you leaving the keys here? Then I'll call 110 and ask the police to deal with this, okay? This is such a terrible girl. I'm really scared. I've never seen it before. It's terrible. Thank you today. Thank you today. Why did you two come back together? Dean Gao and Dr. Xu. Dean Gao and Dr. Xu went to help my dad see a doctor. You guys chatted with me. I went in first. Thank you. You, what's wrong with you? I have something to tell you. Come in and talk to me. Come in and talk to me. Go out and say something. I don't know if I'm not doing well enough or if I'm doing something wrong. My aunt will change her attitude towards me so quickly, like an enemy. Let me hand over the keys immediately or call the police Lin Jie. This is why I didn't agree with our relationship in the first place. What do you mean? Because I know that in a few days my mother will dislike my girlfriend and my son is back. Hurry up. Wash your hands, change clothes, and eat. I have a rest today. Did you go to someone else's house? Mom, Lin Jie, what's going on there? Nothing is going on. What are you talking about? You child, give her the key. Why don't you tell me? That one. Didn't she come to clean the house today? But she didn't clean anything. So I gave her a few pointers and she said I was sick, so of course I was unhappy. I said put the key down, but she got really angry and threw the key. Just leave. Mom, with Lin Jie's psychological quality, she won't cry like that just because you gave her a few words. What's wrong with her? She cried. She actually ran to cry with you. I'm not Lin Jie. Didn't I just give her a few words? Can't I beat her and scold her ? This Lin Jie, this Lin Jie, she has only been with you for a few days, and she can sow discord behind your back. This Lin Jie, let me tell you, I can finally see her true face. This kind of girl I can't be firm, I can't ask you to do this. You go to talk to her. You tell her that you two are not suitable. Break up and completely end her wishful thinking. Okay, okay, let's not talk about her. Let's eat first. I'm full and I haven't eaten yet. Why am I full? That line, that line, let's eat later when you want to eat. By the way, you talk to Lin Jie. Anyway, you didn't want to date her at first. You only started talking to her because of your mother. But now your mother supports you. Why are you breaking up with her? What other aunts have in their cell phones are either photos of foreign travels or some kind of karaoke or square dance. My cell phone is full of photos of my son. My biggest wish is to use it for the rest of my life. My only purpose is to make my son live a good life. Son, I really feel that Lin Jie is not suitable for you. You two have not been together for a long time, so I think you should break up. I do n't want to break up with Lin Jie. Why do n't you listen to your mother? What's wrong, son, son? What's wrong with you? Why are you laughing? Did you hear what your mother said? Mom, I don't know if you know. This is not the first time you asked me to break up with someone else. Isn't it? It's like this every time. You go around introducing me to your girlfriend. Why is this happening? Because you think this is what a good mother should look like. But whenever I get a little closer to any girl, you will find out all kinds of things. Reasons to oppose No matter what kind of girl you are, you can always find the shortcomings and then you will not give up and never give up. It's not because you can't accept the presence of any girl around me from the beginning to the end. You just want to tie me to your body. Son next to you, don't lose your temper, do n't, don't be angry, don't be angry. Why are you saying this to mom? Mom really doesn't think so. They are really not suitable for you. These girls are not suitable for you. That 's why I object. Mom, you don't know you. I don't know how much a person's marriage failure affects a person's life. Mom, I don't want you to follow my old path. Son, Mom, I listen to you. I separated from Lin Jie. I also explained it clearly to her. It doesn't matter that I separated from her. I, you, you, don't. Mom, do n't worry, no one will take me away from you. Son, I've thought about it. I don't need to fall in love. I give up falling in love. I give up getting married. Okay, that's not what I meant. Son, son, you and I are not like this. Son, son, why are you going? Ah, can I go out and take a breather ? I don't think that way. I want to be a good mother. I want to be a good mother. My son, Xiaobai Xiaobai, what are you doing here so early? Since you have to eat, of course it starts with breakfast. The juice I brought you is nutritious. You're not welcome to eat while you're healthy. Let's go. Dr. Xu just got off the night shift. Wait a minute without you. It 's all grass. It's all grass. I was just basking in the sun on the grass over there. I was basking in the sun on the grass. Come on, you. This looks like I slept on the grass all night. I feel like I slept on the grass all night. Do you want to have breakfast together? No, I'm not hungry. Who will cook for you when you go back now? Anyway, we both can eat, right? Thank you. Excuse me. It's okay, master. Let's go. Breakfast is here. Let's eat. What else do you want? Why don't you just eat this in the morning? Isn't this great? I eat this every day. You really need someone to take care of you. Okay. I'm going to make breakfast for you. I prefer to eat breakfast made by myself. What's wrong with me? It's good. I've made so much. Can I finish it? But it's quite rich. MaxoGposl Wait, there is another most important link. Low Fat calories and good looks. Master, try it. It looks good. Yours is also good, but the sandwich calories are too high. MaxoGoosl Coffee will hinder the body's absorption of iron. MaxOGoosl Coffee will hinder the body's absorption of iron, so these are not suitable for breakfast, but eat them early in the morning. Such a greasy pancake, your calories are not small, right? Millet porridge, sufficient carbohydrates, MaxoGv, eggs, high-quality protein, vegetable pancakes, MaxoGo, sufficient vitamin supplements, MaxoGw, these are nutritious breakfasts. Time is limited and can only be like this. As expected of a doctor, I have studied but mine It's not bad. The mixed nuts are the finishing touch. They are nutritious and healthy. Master, try it. In fact, I am almost full after eating bread, so you should just eat your own. If it doesn't work, you can change it. Hurry up and eat MaxoGoos4. Eat After that, everyone goes back to their respective MaxoGo houses, each looking for their mother and master. You have to look at me for doing such a good job. Do you want to take me in for a long time? From now on, I will make you breakfast, afternoon tea and midnight snacks every day to serve you 24 hours a day. There are rules in the apartment, right? Husbands and wives cannot live together. You should eat quickly and go back. Are you okay? Eat and go back. Are you okay? And you are not at work. Eat quickly. Master, my hand suddenly hurts so much. I can't drive and I don't have any spare money to call a driver. Master, please take care of me. Let me go to the hospital. I can give you a follow-up examination now. No need to bother you. I need a knife in my heart. This is a skin injury. So, you are getting such a high salary and you still don't let me help you. You two take your time to see the doctor. I'm full. Master, Master, it hurts. You don't need your strength. You can go home. You're hungry. Come and give it. It's great. Doctor, thank you so much. Get it back for me. Grandma Wu, why are you being polite to me? This is not me. You should be happy this time. Gao Mi is happy. It smells pretty good. How did you find the house? I've found it and I'll show it to you. You think the environment of the community is good. It's also very close to the road. And the layout of the house is particularly good for lighting. Not bad. The key point is that such a big house only costs 6,000 yuan a month. It's like picking up a leak. You see, I don't think it's good. Why do you go against me when I talk about the house ? Don't you want me to move out? Well, so do we. Neighbors, you don't have this kind of affection between neighbors, right? When are you moving? Be careful how you ride next week. In fact, I, Dr. Xu, Uncle Zhang came back so late. Is this your girlfriend? She doesn't live with me, she. I'm sorry about her neighbor. I want to trouble you. Do you know someone from the Sixth Hospital? What's going on? My wife wants to register for an appointment at the orthopedics department there. I'll contact you and I'll send you a WeChat message later. Thank you, okay? You're welcome, I'll just say that I'm a neighbor. That couple is moving out soon, right? What did you want to say just now? I was originally going to say that I was at the convenience store just now, Uncle Qingfeng Qianshu, Mom, come and catch me. Take Qianshu for a walk. Come on, hurry up, come back, come back. Sorry, sorry, okay, okay, okay, okay. Good night, good night, Yuqing. Can you not move out? I didn't want to move in the first place.