This is not how this song was originally intended to sound. Composer Koji Kondo actually wrote a much but due to memory constraints, it had to be or so loop of music. But what happened to that original, longer Well it actually turned up in a game you might And so today, I'd like to talk about 7 of but you've been missing the full story. Let's go. Hi there, welcome to Thomas Game Docs! Today we're talking about 7 Nintendo songs And, first up is the much-loved Zelda Now, many people have compared this game to looking at the game that Ocarina of Time provided But, one aspect where it clearly and unsurprisingly the overworld theme. I mean, it would be kind of ridiculous if Well, prepare for ridicule. Because inside the files for the finalized lies a pretty surprising audio file. I'll let it do the talking. Now, as you can hear, once the intro is done, more from the Ocarina of Time theme. But as for whether this next section is actually Well, I'll let you make up your mind. Now, for years, Nintendo never acknowledged but that all changed with the release of Twilight You see, alongside the game itself, Nintendo game. Well 3, actually. And if we scroll all the way down this long on disc 2, titled "Hyrule Field Main Theme And if we give it a listen... Oh and this isn't the only time that this If we travel way way back to 1986, Nintendo a Zelda sequel but then turned into a Zelda Earlier that same year, the world had been along with its iconic overworld theme, courtesy And so, jump forward a few months and composer of composing this sequel's music. And, why change perfection, right? Well, that's not entirely fair. The majority of the overworld theme that Nakatsuka original, but listen to how it starts. And not to be harsh, but I would say like of another game's theme, and then follows Right, next up is the iconic Main Theme from It should be instantly recognisable. Now, this theme did some pretty unique things. As well as generally sounding spooky, it was, played with mixing diegetic and non-diegetic What does that mean? Well, diegetic audio is sound that's playing So if a character plays a song on their CD then that's diegetic. Non-diegetic audio is music that is only playing Take that incredibly famous scene from the Now when the lady in the shower is being attacked, string orchestra in here". The characters don't hear the music, but Anyway, Luigi's Mansion combines both diegetic way. Because luigi IS humming - you can kinda see audio. But the backing track is only playing for Having them play a sort of duet together is But this wasn't always going to be the case. Because the game's two composers, Shinobu who I adore, actually reworked the game's So, what was the original version like? Well, I think it speaks for itself. So, as you can no doubt hear, this version say that it's quite a bit scarier, which the game that were shown off at conferences. I do think the current version of the theme though. Luigi's Mansion, or at least the version eventually you bowser filled nightmares, it was just Anyway, this original version of the theme But after E3, composers Totaka and Tanaka This current music just didn't sound fun And so, they embarked on a quest to completely They decided to make use of some diegetic form of luigi humming the game's main theme. Not only that, but the soundtrack was also When the player enters a room they've already theme song. When he's in a hallway that he hasn't When he enters a room full to the brim with theme. And, when he leaves the mansion, a lone harp Now that is some clever use of audio, right But next up is Sunshine's main theme. In the final version of this tropical game, Delfino Plaza theme. But again, it wasn't always going to be Let's travel back to the year 2001. Nintendo's new home console, the so-called alongside the Mario title which I don't Mansion. And sure, this game looked cool. It was atmospheric, and unlike anything else But, it wasn't Mario - fans were still waiting to the critically acclaimed Mario 64. However, in August, Nintendo held their annual had something to announce. Something secret to announce. "I'd like to ask you a favour. Mario and Zelda are scheduled to be launched will show you is very very confidential, so later. Is it ok? Can you promise?" Well, unfortunately for poor Miyamoto, IGN Not only did they take pictures, but they it online. Still, this does give us an interesting opportunity then, but also listen to it. Now, as Miyamoto stated, the game was very really doubt that this song was ever intended But, interestingly enough, it can still be Which might not seem especially weird - they - but remember, the music from the trailer with video editing software, not played directly Weird! Ok I'm allowed one self-indulgent song, This is from Ace Attorney, which isn't published But it has been exclusively released on Nintendo Kind of... Anyway, with that little disclaimer out of First thoughts, this is a little painful to Like the chords and melody sound nice enough, of "grating". And so, I feel like to give this song a fair like if it were given a slightly nicer-sounding Ahem. Now, I'm sure you're wondering, what even Well, it's just sitting in the game's files This one was just happened to never be used. But, there's probably a little more to the Because in all likelihood, this was originally Here's the final theme from the Japan only Still a little grating, but it's definitely But, if we fast forward 4 years to the release version most people have played - then we'll version of the theme. Ah, isn't that better. Now we can enjoy the game's emotional ending Now, for our next song, we'll be turning Specifically, the first ever Zelda game for I have talked about this before, but I think So, cast your mind back to, say, mid 1985. Nintendo had released their Famicom console, and it had done ...OK. They had released some sports games, some generally happy with the system. The sales hadn't been through the roof, to keep going with this little system. However, the developers at the company were limits with what they could achieve, from The system wasn't powerful enough, they And so, Nintendo came up with a sort of stopgap This: the Famicom Disk System. It slotted onto the bottom of your Famicom floppy discs. That came with a number of technical advantages And so, as a final goodbye to the original decided to develop a sort of send off, a culmination ended up taking the form of Super Mario bros. Now, this game sort of scuppered Nintendo's Everyone was now talking about this new "Super higher than anyone at Nintendo could've By that point though, work on the Disk System continue with their plans to release the peripheral And, Miyamoto had undertaken the responsibility new device. The name of the game was to be "The Legend we all know how that turned out. But the game's music has an especially interesting As I've talked about in the past, composer vague instructions for how the game's music For the fairy fountain theme (which ended Fountain - fanfare, sparkly". For the dungeon music, he was simply told, And for the title screen music, he was simply That was it. And so, since Kondo was given practically piece of music for the title screen. The classical piece "Bolero" by composer Now, no recording of Kondo's arrangement exists, And so, that was the first version of the to hear before. But why was it changed? Well, right before the game's disks were they had a major problem on their hands. You see, in Japan, a piece of music enters has died. And Kondo just assumed that Ravel had died But to assume is to make an ass out of you And that Kondo did. Because it turned out that Ravel had died If Nintendo was to delay the game by only But Zelda was a launch title for the Famicom push back the release of THAT. And so, Kondo took matters into his own hands, rearranged the game's overworld theme into title theme. But this a tiny bit more to the story, actually. Because as I mentioned, one feature of the extra sound channel, and a special one at Composers could design their own waveforms, instrument. ...kind of. The functionality was still pretty limited, title theme. Listen closely - there's all sorts of sounds If you compare that to the version we were the game was released as a regular old NES And now for the final example, and I think seems so obvious once you point it out. Picture this, you're this plumber guy called been kidnapped by this evil beast called Bowser! You travel across foreign lands, journey through your way. Until eventually, you manage to save the princess. And your reward for all of that? Cool, and then it goes... And then it goes... Yeah, you get the idea. It's an incredibly short piece of music! And so, I was thinking about this one evening, to the story here?" And it turns out, yes. Composer Koji Kondo originally wrote an AABA So part A would go... And then part A would repeat... Then part B would go... And then finally, part A... See, that sounds so much more complete! It sounds like a proper, full piece of music. But, as I mentioned before, Super Mario Bros last game released on the regular old Famicom, Because of this, memory was really tight. There's that super famous story of how the just with a different colour palette - that's of memory out of the system. And so, late in development, it became necessary And I think you can see where this is going. Sadly, Kondo's beautiful B section had to AAAA structure instead, or as we know it this But, all was not lost. Because, when Nintendo decided to release the Famicom Disk System, composer Koji Kondo Let's see what happens when you complete Tada, ful theme! And check this out - it's got a flipping key What a vast improvement! So we hear this phrase, "limitation breeds And it's talking about how often having able to do from a technical standpoint,leads And that is 100% true, that's proven itself games. But as we've seen today, I think it can be limitations just a little. Thanks for watching to the end. If you found this interesting, then be sure Plus you can follow me on Twitter @thomasgdocs I don't know if that's a good thing, but the Either way, see you next week. Bye!