- [Narrator] In this video, to show the inside of a combination lock. I'm gonna go over exactly why putting in a three-digit combination Let's check it out. (electricity crackling) This video is sponsored by CG Boost. Stay tuned at the end of this video to discover how you can using a free program called Blender. (upbeat electronic music) During most of my teen years, I used a combination lock at Before making this video, I really didn't understand how it worked. So I did some research, and then opened one up to Let me show you what I learned. (bright music) Here's the case that This metal curved bar It won't come out until the Then, it pops right open. This piece is called the lever. It slides right onto the bar here. The lever can rotate counterclockwise. This piece of metal wants to flex outward. Once it's bent inside of here, want to spring back to Normally, the latch would just keep going, but the rotation will be The lever also has a tiny latch here that is spring loaded from the inside. The shackle comes down, and then the latch fits and we are locked. When the shackle is pulled out, the latch is forced to rotate to allow the shackle to Then, the lever springs back into place. Let's watch that again. The shackle can't come all the way out because of the shackle collar. It guides the shackle But it stops us once we hit the very top. Okay, the reason that the is that, if the latch can't rotate, then the shackle won't come out. This is where the three Let me show you. The back place has a bar sticking out. It holds the three cams, and a spring at the end. The spring ensures that the three cams and the washers are all pressed together. Cam two and three can spin freely. But cam number one is So when the dial spins, This is what it looks Each cam has an indentation in them. The lock will open when all You can see how the lever can now rotate, which allows the shackle to open. When these three indentations the lever can't rotate, which means the shackle can't come out. So how do we line up the cams Let's look a little closer. Each cam has at least one of You can see them better If we turn cam one far enough, the tooth on cam one will And then if we keep turning, In fact, this is the first Let's walk through this This time we're looking so all three cams will We turn the dial clockwise All three cam teeth are and move as one. Now let's keep turning the dial until we hit the first which in this case is 21. Notice how cam three is now lined up right where it should be. Now let's work on the second This time we turn counterclockwise Watch as the teeth from cam one come in contact with came Notice how this doesn't touch cam three, which is still right where it should be. Now we keep spinning the dial until we hit the second Now cam two and cam three are lined up. For the last number in the combination, just rotate the dial clockwise until it lines up with the third number. And there we go. All three cams are lined allowing the shackle to come out. As the shackle is pushed back in, it comes down with a bit of a jolt, which is usually enough to This means the lock won't you'll need to use the correct (upbeat electronic music) The animation that you've just seen is created with a program called Blender. Is use Blender to create on my YouTube channel. And yes, the program is completely free. You can even download it However, it takes some and you'll need a good teacher. Let me introduce you to my I've been following his because he does amazing work, and I've learned a lot from him. Recently he's released a new course called Blender 2.8 Launch Pad. Check it out at CGBoost.com/JaredOwen. The course takes you you don't need any prior knowledge. You'll learn the fundamentals of Blender's tools and interface, which you'll then use to After completing the course, almost anything you I have personally watched and I can highly recommend it to anyone wanting to learn 3D animation. Remember that Blender is free. And this course by CG Boost is only $59. Plus the first 100 people to Just go to CGBoost.com/JaredOwen. (upbeat electronic music)