- Hi, I'm Jacques Pepin (jazzy music) I wanna show you a very simple, very straightforward roasted chicken. Simple. I have a beautiful chicken here. Three pound, three and a half pound. The first thing that I do when I roast it I remove the wish bone, that you have on each side You cut on each side. Then after with your hand, your finger just push it forward to Then put your finger on the back of it, your thumb in the back of So this is that wish bone And it's a pian in the neck texturally when you do the carving in the So I always remove it. Same thing with turkey, Make sure that when you that you have a bit of a skin here. The wing I can bring in the back like this and I can cook it this way although I tend to like to truss it so that it hold a better shape. And what I use here, it's butcher twine. Don't use something in plastic. There is about five different way of trussing with a trussing This is without needle and I go underneath like Then here you go under and put it on the side here, turn it around and bringing behind the wing to anchor it. You always do a couple, because when you tighten it, So a second thing, and that's it. So my chicken is trussed, just like it hold a So I'm gonna put a tablespoon And then the seasoning, And I have about, you know the salt inside, salt it all around. (butter sizzling) Likewise with the pepper I will do some inside and then a little bit on the outside. And I like to start it on the side. See this is the leg is longer So I like to cook it this way, like 20 minute on this side. Then 20 minute on the other side and finally 20 minute turning it. And at that point I can, at that point I can baste it. So here, this should be here. So here I would start roll it a little bit in butter, then turn it around, turn it this way. And that's going to go 425 degrees, 20 minute this way to start. So my chicken is 20 minute now never go into the breast or whatever. But at the junction here, I go And as you can see, this side Yeah, So I'm putting on this 20 minutes on the other side. And now again I go on the side Now I put it on the back. Remember all that time it I didn't really have to baste it because the juice was going down and that's why I put it this way. Now it's on the gas. So now we start basting it. So start basting it. So every 3-4 minutes, every 5-6 minutes. So you wanna baste it a couple of times. It will go there for another 20 minute, for a total of one hour. (sizzling in pan) Beautiful, right? Okay, now my chicken is cooked. How you see I glaze it a few time. Glaze it like this. Perfect roast chicken. One thing that you don't do now, often people do, they cover it with a piece of aluminum foil or whatever. For me, it tend to put moisture in it and the moisture kind of soften it and it end up being kind of reheated. So here as you see where there, but never. And I look at the color of the juice. The color is white okay? The chicken is cooked. So I put it there and leave it to rest for a couple of minutes Now we do the juice. And of course I could which is not non-stick. In a sense it would've because on the non-stick, the it doesn't stay in the bottom of the pan. It separates. So here I'm going to remove, maybe I leave a tablespoon. We will clean off the fat. And I will deglaze that with half a cup of chicken stock. But remember that what those things here that the of the chicken you thoroughly fried in the bottom of the pan. And the process of de glazing is to a liquid to melt. All of that type of thing, you know? To melt it. Another, I'll see I. What I want to do here, and that clear fat is or anything like that. But the bottom, if there is So let's see. I could have a dash of salt. Instead of salt here, maybe just to give me a little bit of color. Okay, so here I have about a good half cup of natural juice and I'm going to thicken it I probably won't use all of that. A little bit of cold I have stuck here. You always dilute it as soon the liquid it thicken on contact. That's why you don't really have to worry that much about, but I and I look at it maybe a little more, until I like the texture, there we are. A dash more. Okay. And now I want to show you how to properly carve the chicken. So first thing of course don't forget to remove the twine. This used to be done in the dining room with a fork and a spoon. At that point you would go on the side, cut the the bone here, the skin rather, break it at the bone and it comes out. As you can see our chicken The other leg in the same way. You cut there and you pull out. This. Now here you have the So I look for that And I cut a piece of the breast. I mean most of the... and again you pull out. This? Same thing on the other side. Again, the joint, I go down. You do the same thing Be exactly the same And then pull out. Yes. So the two legs, the two breasts. Now we are what we call the That is the, the white meat here. You cut on this and you pull it out. You know it should come out of the bone pretty easily because it's cooked. As you can see it will come out. And your back, your left will, the whole carcass like this. And the presentation used to be this. It would be presented this way. The carcass back in, the bone back on top, the wing, the other wing, one leg, the other leg. That was a nice presentation usually. Alright so with a bit of watercress. I have a beautiful bunch I will only use the top leaf and of course this will make So presentation of watercress this way. And of course we have the juice that we have here, the classic. And this is it. Perfectly roast chicken Happy cooking. (bright music)