Welcome travelers! This is the Baseball Time A time of economic boom, the "Red Scare", Elvis named Sanford Koufax. "Sandy" made his MLB and eventually became one of the most dominant But how did he do it? Why did he retire at player to be inducted into the Baseball Hall of Sandy's baseball story begins in 1953, University of Cincinnati. However, it was experience was rather limited, and he was fully But he and many others soon found As an 18-year-old, his fastball was reaching control. &quot;He could throw hard. He was very batting practice. If he hit you, he didn't mean he was a thrower," said Dan Gilbert, who played The raw potential was there, but throwers don't lack of control, Sandy was successful in his lone with a 2.81 ERA, striking out 51 in 32 innings. as the "Cats' fire-balling freshman sensation". his overpowering fastball. The big leagues the Brooklyn Dodgers came to UC to watch Koufax showed enough promise to earn himself a contract. to report straight to the major leagues for made him a "bonus baby". For those of you that From 1947 to 1965, Major League Baseball had was to prevent other teams from signing If a team signed a player and included a bonus of they would have to keep that player on their This didn't necessarily benefit young minor to develop their skills on a lower level. Being a 19-year-old, is a tough task. But we four other bonus babies found their way Roberto Clemente, and Catfish Hunter. The arrival So due to this controversial rule, Koufax his major league career at only 19 years old. pitching two scoreless innings of relief. &quot;When the batting cage,&quot; said Dodgers slugger Duke as he held a 6.0 BB/9 through the 12 His workload would be slightly increased The Dodgers were one of the best teams in Gil Hodges, Don Newcombe, Jackie Robinson, and Koufax just yet. The ballclub had won the World But when Dodgers owner Walter O' Malley from Brooklyn to Los Angeles in 1958, the team and a 7th place finish in the National League. the Dodgers became more reliant on Koufax, now These two would headline LA's starting rotation big way in 1959, finishing 88-68, good for 1st in From here, Sandy Koufax would soon becoming one of the best pitchers the game really came into his own. At spring training, changed everything for him. All Sherry suggested and focus more on getting the ball into who historically struggled with control. greatest strengths. The advice Koufax finished 1961 with the lowest ERA of his and led all of baseball in strikeouts and FIP. At 25 years old, Koufax was finally living up to &quot;Either he throws the fastest ball said future Hall of Famer Richie Ashburn. with a finger injury, making nine less starts still a big year for him. Sandy led the National was an all-star for the second straight year, and no-no would be Koufax's first of four, which was At this point, we've entered Sandy Koufax world box to face Sandy would be in for a rough four citing that baseball was in a "dead-ball" outpitched every other top pitcher in Don Drysdale, even Bob Gibson, despite his of grasp Sandy Koufax had on the major leagues. He ruled the rubber, leading the major leagues earned his first pitching triple crown, first and first NL MVP award, receiving 85% of the vote. career, as well. The near-perfect season was as the Dodgers swept the New York Yankees in the fall classic, winning games one and four earning himself World Series MVP. Future hall of had high praise for the southpaw. What I don't understand is how he lost five." for Koufax. While LA finished 6th in the NL, the National League in ERA, and was an late in the season, something went wrong. On ground diving back into second base while on the arthritis, which would alter the remainder of still successful, his season was over a month 1965 started grim. The morning following a spring Hemorrhaging caused his entire Sandy went back to Los Angeles to have team It was well-known by now to Sandy that this Kerlan told him that he'd be lucky just to lose all feeling in his left arm if he kept Koufax tried a medicine cabinet of remedies. He in the middle of outings, and always soak Despite the constant pain, Sandy had another another Cy Young, and one of his most impressive 1965, Koufax became the 8th pitcher ever to throw 14. This game was quite an oddity, with the Their lone run came unearned, as LA's lone runner It's hard to imagine anyone playing through what Koufax was truly in a league of &quot;Trying to hit him was like trying to Hall of Fame slugger Willie Stargell, who hit He fought through the arthritis, putting himself winning the World Series over the Minnesota Twins as he refused to pitch. The game was set to of the year in Judaism. Koufax, like Hall of sat out in observance. Many fans were upset at who made the start in Sandy's place, got roughed As a result, the Dodgers suffered an 8-2 loss Dodgers lost game 2, as Koufax's solid performance of Fame pitcher Jim Kaat kept LA's bats quiet, Now down 2-0 in the series, the Dodgers In Koufax's next start, Game 5, he showed why he a complete game, 10 K shutout. The Dodgers Koufax would start the decisive game He threw ANOTHER complete game, 10 No Twins reached third base that day. It would in a winner-take-all postseason game. Sandy his second World Series MVP, and on the grandest In 1966, the arthritis continued to take its toll to start the year was whether or not Sandy would pitcher Don Drysdale, agreed to hold out on the fit. In a time before free agency and arbitration, before. Both Koufax and Drysdale failed to show up in Warning Shot, an upcoming film. After four Sandy gave Don the green light to negotiate a slightly more lucrative contract than Drysdale, and the two rejoined the team in the last and the defending champs had their aces back. Sandy that his left arm wouldn't be able to handle to retire. Koufax, ever the competitor, kept the 4th day. Out on that mound, he remained unfazed, He set career-bests in wins, ERA, and ERA +. leading major league baseball in much He remains only one of three pitchers to win the won his 3rd Cy Young award in four seasons. He in spite of his potentially life-altering injury. his unfortunate circumstances. On the final day rest and led his team to a 6-3 victory, clinching LA faced the Baltimore Orioles in the World but not without Sandy putting up a fight. He giving up only one earned run in six innings. said Orioles first baseman Boog Powell. ever. That remained evident until the bitter end. the Dodgers committed six errors, three coming runs on Koufax's ledger. Los Angeles lost 6-0, leading to an easy sweep for Baltimore. Just over announced his retirement from baseball, citing his that Sandy's arthritis was really UCL damage. In through Tommy John Surgery. Unfortunately, Dodgers conducted the first UCL surgery on, In his official retirement speech, Sandy &quot;I don't regret for one minute the twelve years season too many. I've got a lot of years to live with the complete use of my body. job - that was my goal. I loved playing. I regret is leaving baseball. I still don't know going to miss a lot of things.&quot; consider an athlete's prime, Sandy Koufax left the the beautiful game, but out of protection for his it's crazy to imagine what they would look like if everything there is to do in baseball, in half of the greatest pitchers of all-time, and perhaps Despite lack of run support throughout his he pitched some of his best ball in October. inducted into the Baseball Hall of he became the youngest-ever inductee, beating out the Dodgers retired his number 32, alongside 42. An outstanding honor, to say the least. talent, who in the midst of his reign over the of his health. That four year period, though, you was inevitable. This has been the Baseball