Hello everyone, I am A Feng. The market we are exploring today is located in Qidian Township, Yunnan Province, China. It is the eve of the Mid-Autumn Festival . There are many stalls selling big cakes (moon cakes). Big cakes have been an intangible cultural heritage here for more than a hundred years. The stall owner cut the flatbread into pieces and gave it to customers for free tasting . The stall owner asked me to eat more. The crust of the flatbread is made of tartary buckwheat and the fillings include soma, ham, bean paste and five kernels. The price is 40 to 70 yuan each. Together with a set of &quot;baskets&quot; for selling large cakes, the &quot;baskets&quot; are made of bamboo and are commonly used in rural areas of Yunnan. Nowadays, &quot;baskets&quot; are used to hold large cakes, which are full of strong local flavor. During the Mid-Autumn Festival, large cakes are very popular, and many customers are People come here to buy purple beans. This color of green beans is not common. It is said that they will turn green after cooking. In addition to the beans, this old-fashioned steel scale is even more special. It was a measuring scale decades ago. Nowadays, electronic scales have become popular. The old-fashioned steelyard seems to have become a memory of an era. What this stall sells is glutinous rice balls. Tangyuan is a traditional snack. &quot;Yuan&quot; means &quot;reunion&quot; and &quot;consummation&quot;. It is made by rolling glutinous rice flour into a round shape and putting it into boiling water to cook . After it floats, take it out and add the bean noodles and brown sugar water. It tastes particularly sweet and soft. For Yunnan people, small pot rice noodles are definitely a favorite. Each rice noodle has its own exclusive cooking time, cooking heat, and ingredient selection . There are different tastes, but it is not satisfactory. Minced pork, bean sprouts, tofu skin, leeks, pickles, peppers , miso and rice noodles. The ingredients are extremely rich. Various flavors blend together in a small pot. Every bite is endlessly memorable. In addition to Kunming's reputation The small pot of rice noodles with thin bean flour and fried dough sticks outside is definitely another classic breakfast dish not to be missed. The delicate and smooth thin bean flour is added with ginger, garlic water and coriander to enhance the flavor. It is paired with crispy fried dough sticks and the taste is really unforgettable. You can say this This way of eating represents Kunming's traditional breakfast culture. Walking in the market , I feel like I have traveled back in time. A few decades ago, people's shopping method was very simple , just to come to such a market to pick out the items they need. Nowadays, although the shopping method Great changes have taken place, but the strong traditional atmosphere in the market is still attractive. This uncle is concentrating on making a sieve. The sieve was a tool commonly used in the kitchen in the past. Its main body is made of pine wood chips. Look at his skillful skills and determination. Nowadays, the look in his eyes is that of an experienced craftsman . As the older generation of craftsmen gradually get older , these precious skills are becoming increasingly rare , but these homemade tools may look simple but are facing the risk of being lost. It is very practical for uncles and easy to use. Me: How much does this kind of cost? An uncle: 15 yuan. Me: How long have you been doing this? Uncle: 60 years. My uncle and I chatted about the turbulent period when he was young. During his business days , he traveled extensively and tasted all kinds of food in the world. Now that he is older, he has stopped traveling around. I: Is your craft inherited or taught by yourself? Uncle: My ancestors did this, and I am the fifth generation. Me: Is business better now or before? Uncle: Business was good in the past, but now there are fewer people using sieves. Since the finished flour and cooking oil purchased today no longer require sieves to filter impurities, the sales of sieves have dropped sharply. However , occasionally there are customers who customize sieves for finished products in large quantities. In Yunnan, people are used to making cakes. Known as Baba, Guandu Baba is a famous specialty snack in Guandu Ancient Town, Kunming . It can even be bought in other places in Kunming. Its main raw materials are flour, yeast and water. After simple fermentation , it is baked into a delicious snack that is crispy on the outside and soft on the inside. The stall owner: The small ones are 2 yuan each, and the fillings are sweet. The stall owner: there are puff pastry fillings, peanut fillings, and bean paste fillings . The flat cakes without fillings are priced at 4 yuan each. This stall sells pomegranates for 8 yuan per kilogram. The pomegranate fruit has fiery red seeds and is full of seeds. &quot;Rice milk daddy&quot; is a Yunnan specialty snack. When making it, eggs and rice milk are added and stirred well. Then yeast is added for fermentation to make the rice milk more elastic. When fried, it becomes softer and you can not only feel the taste of the rice milk. It's mellow and you can taste a little sourness brought by fermentation, so it's also called &quot;Physalis Papa&quot; Me: How is business this year? Stall owner: Business is not doing well this year. Each price is 4 yuan. Here is a stall selling woks . The stall owner is wiping the pot body while introducing the product to customers. The stall owner is boiling a new pot. During this process, the iron pot will gradually change color from silver to silver. The white color turns to dark brown. This is because an oxide layer is formed on the surface of the iron pot. This process is called &quot;opening the pot.&quot; After the pot is boiled, the surface of the iron pot will become smooth. The stall owner and the customer are bargaining. These colorful mats are baby products. The stall owner tried his best to sell: 86 yuan each, which is really a good deal, but customers still seem to be hesitant. These cute little boots are handmade and embroidered with patterns of butterflies, carps, rabbits, and tigers. This is a pair of children's shoes with carp patterns. The workmanship is very good. It's very beautiful. This cushion has blessings for a safe life written on it. I saw the stalls were filled with colorful fabrics and was curious about their uses. I asked the aunt who was choosing the fabrics. What was this fabric used for? It turns out that these fabrics are used to make shoes . In addition to the delicious flatbread, Qidian also has a mouth-watering delicacy, which is pickles. The pickles here are famous for their unique taste. In addition to pickles, there are also various flavors. These old people carrying &quot;baskets&quot; on their backs are buying rice krispie treats. This traditional snack that carries countless childhood memories is still their favorite. They put the rice krispie treats they bought into their backpacks on the roads in the mountains of Yunnan in the past. Backpacks are the most loyal companions of the mountain people on rugged mountain roads with inconvenient transportation. The backpacks contain firewood, rice, oil, and salt, and also contain the hope of life for the mountain people. Nowadays, roads connect villages to households, but the old people seem to have become accustomed to using backpacks to measure the mountain road. Time is now the annual chestnut ripening season. These thorn balls are wrapped with fresh chestnuts. I: Auntie, did you grow this yourself? Stall owner: Yes, have you never seen chestnut shells? Me: Yes, it is rare to see stall owners put chestnuts with shells removed into bamboo baskets . During the Mid-Autumn Festival in China, besides admiring the moon and eating moon cakes, people also eat chestnuts. It is a traditional custom for stall owners to beat the thorny balls in order to shell the chestnuts. This thorny shell is like a defensive fortress, which can effectively protect the fruits from being bitten by squirrels and other animals , thus ensuring the smooth spread of seeds. Fresh chestnuts are very popular and grilled tofu is a dish. An authentic Yunnan snack, tofu made from soybeans is fermented and grilled over charcoal fire until it is charred on the outside and tender on the inside. The grilled tofu is dipped in chili powder, giving it a unique flavor. The stall owner is cleaning the iron pot and preparing to make corn tortillas. First, brush a layer on the bottom of the pot. The stall owner pours a thin layer of sesame oil into the iron pot evenly and pours the corn paste into the iron pot. Each operation will form a round corn tortilla. The corn tortilla sells for 20 yuan per kilogram. The raw material of the corn tortilla is ground from fresh corn. After frying for about 5 minutes, you need to turn it over and fry for another 5 minutes. This is a real product. It is usually very popular. I also bought three. You can taste the sweetness of corn. The shell of the walnut has two layers. The stall owner is now peeling it off. The walnuts with only the outermost shell left. The completely shelled walnut kernels are priced at RMB 13 per kilogram. The potatoes on the ground have been packed into bags of 3 kilograms and are priced at RMB 10. These potatoes are produced in Xundian, Yunnan Province. Xundian County is a famous potato producing area. In 2023, the potato planting area will reach 280,000 acres, and the output will reach 440,000 tons. The wholesale price is about 1,400 yuan per ton. The retail price is 10 yuan for 3 kilograms. The mutton on the stall is very fresh. The mutton can keep out the cold and replenish the body. The required nutrients are also very affordable at only 75 yuan per kilogram. The vegetables in traditional markets are always exceptionally fresh. Many of the vegetables are picked fresh from local villagers' own vegetable gardens. The one sold here is freshwater lobster, which the locals call crayfish . There are many ways to eat it, including garlic, spicy, braised and other flavors. Each method has its own unique flavor. Fresh freshwater lobster sells for 45 yuan per kilogram. These are local snails. The most classic way to eat it is with ginger and garlic. The spicy sauce stir-fried open-air market is connected to the indoor market, but the indoor flow of people is obviously less. An authentic snack in Qidian Market is cold pea powder. Pea powder is made from dried peas, mixed with water, ground into a slurry, and boiled. This is The production process of rolled rice noodles is to grind rice into rice slurry and steam it to form a thin rice skin. It is a staple food suitable for all ages in Yunnan. The reason why the jelly noodles are delicious is indispensable for the various seasonings such as sesame oil, fragrant star anise oil, mellow pepper oil and sesame sauce. The fresh minced garlic adds flavor to the ginger soup, the warm oil, the chili pepper, and the spicy fragrance of coriander . Every flavor makes the jelly more flavorful. According to the owner, the owner has been operating here for decades and many regular customers have grown from snacks to large stores. In order to ensure the ingredients The quality of the roll noodles and pea flour is made by hand every day. The production of chili is more exquisite. First, dry the green onions and then boil them with ginger peel and chili powder in vegetable oil. I bought a bowl of mixed roll noodles and pea flour. It tastes smooth and has rich condiments. It 's really delicious. It's just a little spicy. There are villagers' houses next to the market. There are few pedestrians on the street. They must all gather in the lively market. In addition to the brick-concrete houses, there are also There are a small number of adobe houses. These adobe houses are made of rammed yellow mud, straw and lime. After decades of ups and downs, they have witnessed the changes of the times in the village. The adobe houses are still standing today. There is a clear freshwater lake 9 kilometers away from the village. The locals call it &quot;Yangzonghai&quot;. As one of the nine plateau lakes in Yunnan, Yangzonghai has a lake surface of about 31 square kilometers, an average water depth of 20 meters, and a deepest depth of about 30 meters. This area is located in central Yunnan, with pleasant seasons , warm winters and cool summers . Today's video is here It's over, goodbye friends!