today's you asked is dedicated to answering one: welcome back everyone. I'm Caleb Denison, I answer frequently asked questions and also to connect with all of you who so so sometimes that means going behind the scenes, talking shop or sharing personal anecdotes. week I'm excited to answer one of the most the 13 years or so that I've been reviewing but before I do I wanted to say thank you and clicking some buttons of support and remind you comments section of any of our videos, I would comments to youasked@digitaltrends.com because than it is to pour over the comment section. not singling out any one viewer's question most frequently Asked question I get. so that question usually goes something review instead of accepting review samples list of proposed advantages to buying the golden samples getting a better feel for so the reasons we don't buy the TVs that products that we review are multitudinous. there are so many in fact that I had to create of coherent manner. I've done the best I can in down into a few categories. 1. Logistics. 2. miscellaneous matters of feasibility. you ready? because it's a lot, but remember we'll just pretend that each but by the end of this little diatribe, I think we'll start with Logistics and under that's the shipping and receiving involved. insurance. we'll start with storage realistically this new studio space can handle mean just take a look at where we're at 77 inch TV is on the BDI elements cabinet now the space along the garage door access, in here is now harder. then we have the 85 and it isn't even out of its box. it's just our actual storage shelves. and then there's the space on our BDI octave console while its box while I can put some empty boxes up there I can't tried, and, well, it's not smart or safe. we'll &quot;well Caleb why don't you just get a storage &quot;oh, I have one.&quot; I'll get to that in the time eventually these TVs need to get shipped out. who include a buyer or an auction winner or possibly that shipment process? I'll get to that in the the challenges associated with shipping TVs out going to need to ensure that the TV arrives to its that means contracting with a logistics means adding insurance all of that. as you and under that time and cost category, and the cost of the logistics as well the cost associated with taking a loss let's start with the time associated with that we would need a person dedicated just to that means being on the phone with the logistics of the TVs booking the shipping of outbound TVs TVs back and forth to the storage unit, all while absolutely must have at the studio are actually a TV I don't actually want to be here would have I actually wanted here, even with the careful person would also have to handle all the processes payments running an auction and collecting giveaway. all of that is a full-time job, and which moves us to costs. we're gonna even if I had time to professionally calibrate minimize loss. that's not legal for me to in addition to eating the loss on the cost of the to give it away, we have to support the cost of amount because we're talking about shipping we have to pay for the insurance to make the cost of the TV is covered and can be replacing the TV and there's costs associated from our storage unit. I mean, conservatively, conservatively, never mind all the headaches also, there's time consideration there's inherently this expectation that sale or help troubleshoot. we aren't Best Buy or now to all of you who might say well we aren't rtings or Consumer Reports. model. and I might point out that business very much in the minority, and but beyond a business model considerations, and then making them disappear, it's only costs are handled by the TV brands. they have samples are a thing and why the vast majority of oh and one more cost I forgot to mention: unit are covered up to a certain amount. the more risk we take on if there is event. if something bad were the next category I put down is liability in terms of the liability involved in the expectation that we service a sale loss due to a tragic event. but there's we are not an authorized retailer or reseller threshold we are treading into legal hot at Digital Trends but this kind of thing it can't be. all of that is reason enough but there are some access considerations as well. by access, I mean a few different things. often get products sooner than they're a little bit during the pandemic when but it's been returning to normal. so, products as soon as I can to provide timely with TV brands, getting briefings so I can oh and being able to provide those there are multiple benefits one I can get answers access to the engineers who designed this stuff. that put it together. I can get information can also provide feedback to these companies that they do reach store shelves. this is a big fix problems before or soon after TVs land in seeing an increasing number of TVs that won't TV brands will host reviewer workshops where I time with the TVs that are just too big or the only way we'd be able to review them for them to arrive but that takes us back to are way way higher with a thirty thousand dollar now I can understand if folks feel like this that TV brands get some kind of influence they do not. and they know that too. most of them been at this reviewer program thing for a long for sale. they can't ask me to say something but ultimately I'm going to say no I say none of my reviews will ever be sponsored and why we don't try to pass it off as a review either. some other Publications, and it definitely who will 100 percent try to pass off I'm not saying all influencers do that but with influencers are very different than the teams that means sometimes influencers get stuff but I'm okay with that because those to begin with. and also my editorial there are also some other General feasibility products I review then all the other editors at it's not tenable for me alone, it's certainly not publication. there's also the hard fact that even it's unlikely we could keep up with the also keep in mind that reviewing TVs is not all do public speaking. I cover trade shows and other I need TVs here when I need them here and and frankly it's tough enough as it is oh and I want to address the question them. because I get to buy and return a and that's if someone doesn't figure out who I Best Buy, Target, Crutchfield, I mean, and that kind of leads into another part other large Publications do and sometimes even products as well. I don't have the opportunity destroy somebody's business if I did that and finally I want to address the notion that that my experience will be drastically different not every TV that I get here is a golden sample, have very good screen uniformity or were just behave correctly or crapped out entirely. it this notion that, and I'll just use TCL as an and at the front of mind for a lot of folks a golden sample Q7 might be as good as the worst and folks, that's just not true. the margin of of one model to the next is not enough to two completely different models of TV. also to see the best example of a TV's capable example of another TV's capable performance, granted the level is going to be very high, so folks I hope that that helps explain I realize there's a lot of inside baseball if I'm going to answer such a commonly asked thing I could do is just be fully transparent and I hope it was valuable to you. I hope it helps business and how we do this reviewer thing, difference between journalism and influence-ism. anyway, thank you so much for taking it. don't forget to like And subscribe to and until then, here's two other