-Alright, the only game where you claim vengeance on people that wrong you by taking a voodoo doll and bludgeoning them to death with fate. It's Voodoo Doll. This is a game that starts simply enough. You're a young girl going to school when suddenly, another student takes I love how there's, like, a little thing that tells you and now you have to determine what you're going to do Now, each of these different points here and you have to discover which is which. There's a really good chance so I'm gonna choose the right hand Oh, all right. Well, uh-- Oh, my God. Ah, wow, that went way further than I thought We went to 11 real fast. I thought it was just supposed to, like, you know, I didn't know He was going to get his arm caught and then have a driver away I also like how his body All right, nine o'clock. We get off the bus, and someone cuts in front of us. So the last time, we picked an arm, I mean, what happens if you use the head? Here we go. Okay. So he was trying to-- [chuckles] I love like one of those cakes on a display It didn't really sever his head. It just kind of made him eat but I guess that's good enough for me. We're on the street. It's 11:00 AM. There is a potted plant Oh, I have to save someone. I don't know. I guess, take out a kneecap or something. I'm not really sure. I saved a life. Oh, the little thing over here. Look at it. It's like, &quot;Oh, you did such a good job. 3:00 PM, Oh, is this my boyfriend? Oh, he's not paying attention to me. We can fix that. In for an appropriate headshot. Oh, this isn't actually It was just me controlling his mind. Okay. We're at home in bed. Wh-what is gonna go wrong? Oh, that's not me. That's the other girl. You son of a bitch. Am I breaking all while she is sitting here watching? This is what happens when you mess Oh, really? This is where we end up at? I'm actually kinda surprised that the game didn't have me Ah, your boyfriend just got caught. I know. Here, I am telling him about Did he just tell me I'm ugly? How about now? I'm still ugly? Get on your knees. There we go. And tell me, you love me. He's like, &quot;I don't know why, God, his eyes are vomiting tears like I'm really surprised Oh, he's looking at that girl I'll go for the- for the right arm again. Usually, that ends up being pretty good. What the hell? [laughs] Is that the option [laughs] How come he's the one but I'm the one that pisses off fate? I mean, I know I'm the reason but still, his hand is bland. All right, we're now at the office. Is he hitting on the boss? What happens if I do this? We, like, head-butter? All right, I'm gonna try and arm, though, because the head thing seemed-- What the hell? Would I give him superhuman strength? I actually don't even know why this guy all the different things he still hangs around. Yes, beat yourself to death Back at the bus stop where it all began. Is he trying to sneak out? All right, if I do like a leg, Let's try- let's try the right leg. Yep, he lost all of his teeth. That bus has legitimately killed Help him. I wonder if I can not help him somehow. Like, if I pick this, Damn it. And where are all these potted plants Are the plants just killing themselves, The plants are like, &quot;My owner's a slob. And they jump out the window. It's late at night. I'm a decent person, Looking for my boyfriend. I've gotta find him. The best way to find him, What was that? It's like Google-- like, uh, Google Maps. Now I'm stalking him. I feel like I'm the one although I haven't killed Distract him. From what? Oh, he's supposed to not see I've got it. Hold on. What? It's like midnight, Ah, see, buying drugs. I knew it. Stop his plan. Jabbing people in the forehead Boom, headshot. I got a question. Does he keep the massive heading [laughs] I love that giving him elephantiasis of the head is considered I don't know if I agree with it, Okay, so now he's being chased by killing the criminal and literally, by killing the criminal. Sometimes and they have a freaking boulder fall on them and turn I can't believe Like, I already saved him one time. Is this, like, a different guy? Uh, which-which hand has the gun? I can probably make this guy shoot He's probably a righty. Most of them are. Let's try that. Oh, no. Oh, my God, his body is vomiting out sour, apple Hi-C, and karma's still like, &quot;Hey, you're a b-- Okay. And at this point, now, Oh, I'm actually protecting myself now. So what? If I do like a leg, do I kick them in the ball so hard There, give myself superhuman leg powers. Day two. I'm at home with my boyfriend. Although again, All right, watching TV, Of course, there's only way to-- And that's by getting revenge. So the remote is in the left hand. So let's do this one over here this time. Yes, release the remote pleb. He should feel fairly lucky against his will is about the nicest thing The rest of it is always just death. All right, now I'm the one watching. Nice, News 25 Romance article. I'm about to vomit, so change the show. I can't even use the controller. I have to use my voodoo power What happens if you click on the head What? Is that it? Wait, did I win, or did I lose? Well, they just decided My God, I just ruined someone's relationship Boyfriend's making dinner in the kitchen. Not really sure Oh, yeah, I gotta change the menu. Do you think I'm a vegetarian? So the right hand, Uh, I'm trying to remember. I assume I can get him to chop off Yeah, we're gonna go with it Come on, big winner, big winner. Oh, oh, what the hell? Did he just eat the vegetables out Dammit, All right, we got an Amazon delivery. Yeah, just a-- Oh, So I tried to get a pizza. They're not gonna deliver it to me. So now I have to get my vengeance His head is on fire. Wow, I went from, like, a decent person all the way Seriously, you set one man on fire, yet he's still-- This guy's a dedicated worker. He still has his cell phone, like, Right, back at the bedroom over here. Sure my boyfriend's Yeah, you see this? He's with Harley Quinn. I knew it. All right, you know what to do. Punch her in the face or something. Yeah. What the hell? Oh, he's punching himself to death. I would like to take the opportunity also but this is actually just his hand Okay. Everyone understand that? Oh, no, I am burning alive at this point. We're going for headshots all day today, Boom. All right, I have to get into a fight He's probably like, &quot;Where's Stephanie?&quot; And I'd be like, Yeah, yeah, begged to take me back again. I don't know this-this game of our relationship, Okay, I'm at the supermarket. Oh, there's a thief. Look at that. He tried to rob this lady. So if I click Head, he dies, like, So let's go with the left arm this time. Not really sure what that might do. Oh, he gets attacked by a police dog, That might not have even been I think it was just a dog Now, this dog has a taste for human flesh. This game is amazing. This stage is called Hot Dogs. Okay. Wait, is he gonna run out, How come shaggy got his hot dog? Oh, this girl cut me in line, See, I probably have an opportunity by choosing one of her arms, There. Oh, she's choking to death on the hot dog. What? What's that, ma'am? You need someone to perform Yeah, there's a cost associated with that. It's one hot dog, please. She's probably like, Yeah, spit it out on the concrete. All right, back at the office. Apparently, I work for Father Time. He's annoyed because I'm late. So let me guess, head, he probably smashes his head I don't know I mean, I can try it. I don't really think Oh, gee. Okay, he just got a cramp on the floor. All right, All of a sudden, and I spill coffee all over my sailor fuku All right, I haven't beaten anyone So you're getting instant killed. Yeah, splash hot coffee all over yourself. Oh, never mind. Just drink flaming lava. This poor guy. He's like, &quot;The surface of the sun. Uh, Hot Dogs part two. So I did manage to get a hot dog, but now I can't eat because this couple over here Oh, I get to choose Um, I think this is the girl I'm surprised she managed to get saved. So we're gonna pick her. Oh, I can't not go for the head. All right, here we go. Headshot number two. What is this? Megaphone? What's happening? Oh, she can't talk anymore. She's mute now. Haha. What? Is someone gonna cut in front of me Yeah, you see that? How dare somebody step in front of me? Now you're going to get your arm It's gonna happen. Told you. 100%. Okay, we're at the bus stop. There's a long line. I'll bet, I can get rid of everyone, Oh, his bus has broken down. I-I don't know. Like, headshot on the bus. I really don't know what to do here. I have an idea. Okay. Oh, so he's gonna fix the engine. Huh, wow, I went right back to being a-- well, sort of a good person. It says, I'm a good person, but I'm still, you know, Satan colored. It's Wednesday. I'm in this street. A dog is chasing a young man. I have to help him. I'm gonna stab him in the leg I just killed the dog, I'm pretty sure. Yeah, I like how it pauses I didn't wanna have to hurt the dog, Even the game is like, Maybe Yeah, the dog just lands on It's late at night. There's this spooky house. Oh, he broke into my house, I would ask but then I realize do whatever I want. Where do I keep this dog? I don't think All right, Headshot, headshot, headshot. Oh, he's getting a call on the-- Oh, my God, and it was just going to make him stay But it turned into a nuke What? We're back at the bus stop, Oh, am I gonna help this guy? Help the guy? So he doesn't have any money. I mean, I'm gonna headshot him, and, uh, I guess I'll see what happens. Is he gonna kill someone and then-- Did-did his head just grow causing a wallet full of money to pop out. I mean, the game seems to think So I'm not gonna ask any questions. Back at the office, It's not like you can't fit two people, Someone's got to get their leg ripped off. Actually, if she gets her leg ripped off, [laughs] Oh, my God. So do I get that promotion now? Yeah, I can see Every day is filled with body to-- Oh, I just got robbed. All right, I'm gonna go for another leg. The leg was really good. Every day is just filled with death All right, so the guy falls to his death, Like, he still has my money. All right, dog in the street. Now I can finally save the dog. I don't want him to get hit I love like, everyone in the entire city Every man, woman, child, inanimate object, animal, it doesn't matter, All right, There we go. That-that should bring me back Okay, we're back at the hot dog stand. This-this hot dog place has been-- I think more people have died here. Oh, so I don't have any money, so he's not gonna serve me a hotdog, but I'm still gonna get revenge on him? Really? I mean, if the game says so. Okay, here we go. Is he- is he getting up-- His entire hot dog cart just got abducted The whole cart. Well, now I can't get a hot dog at all. Actually, no one gets any hot dogs. Kind of screwed myself on that one. Okay, obviously, the hot dog vendor has been replaced with That guy just choked to death I assume I have to save his life. All right, just beat yourself in the head Whoa, was he projectile vomiting I mean, I guess it helped him. All right, I'm at my part-time job. I say it's part-time than I do actually working. Well, I'm trying to work but the problem is the co-worker behind me Anytime I choose the head, it seems like someone's head blows up I wonder He is bleeding out of his ears. Yeah, see what happens kids? See what happens when you're always on All right, obviously, the boss is chewing out which is kind of weird that she lost her legs. Like, he's probably like, &quot;How come you were late And she's like, &quot;I had my legs ripped off inside And he's like, Here, punch him in the face. Go ahead. Just use your hand and backhand him. Oh, oh, he's coming over. Oh, never mind, they just fell in love. That was weird. All right, I'm as-as good What the hell was that? Is he- is he doing the robot? I'm gonna headshot you just [lightning strikes] Oh, it's a lightning strike. Haven't seen that since the beginning. Oh, we're at the bus stop. I have a feeling I'm gonna have to, uh, move them away. All right, how about with this arm? What is that gonna do? Is he just gonna-- Oh, everyone honks and honks Okay, yeah, everyone get the hell moving. Come on. There we go. All right, in front of my house. That's very annoying, oh, help the couple. All right, a headshot. I'm gonna go ahead There we go. Yeah, you thought you had free will? Not in my city. Okay, and at this point, I am now in the middle of a shootout I have to help the cop. I have a feeling with someone's head exploding, Time to end on a high note. Oh, that was incredible. That man's bullet double ricocheted well, as yet another body vomits out I hope you all enjoyed Till next time, stay foxy and much love.