Would you believe that this costs around 4EUR, comes with NASA technology. series exists in which I take interesting or weird them in order to ultimately tell you whether you And today I got 6 more intriguing So let's not waste anymore This video is sponsored by Displate and fun fact; before they offered to sponsor this video. And if quickly summarize that Displate makes unique and to your wall in just 20 seconds if you are quick. this system uses magnets instead. Now when it something for everyone. My favorites though and if you want to see my favorite picks that sounds like your cup of tea, then simply get automatically access to my discount which Now let's start off with the NASA technology I would already not recommend it. advertised as an antifreeze snow removal sounded and looked very interesting. and realized that they are using science BS energy in the composite frequency band can And of course it does all of that So I was very skeptical once the product changed the original packaging shown is only an air freshener for your car. and the solar panel on top actually powers a to probably better spread the smell. this misleading product description. a hopefully useful product; with this Mini Now sadly the production description but thankfully there was a small manual included So to use this thing I firstly stole a disabled the pin activation and The now red blinking LED means that this thing you are by the way able to charge this thing. to send an SMS with a specific series of numbers get the GPS location which indoors was absolutely And when going outside with this thing you would still totally inaccurate GPS position. activating live tracking, in which the trackers website where you can then see the position Here the accuracy never got better say this mode was also a bit scary. that you can call this thing and then listen people which in my test actually did work. then you can also insert a Micro SD which did also work just fine in my test. than a GPS tracker whose accuracy is probably Combine that with the fact that this circuit internal battery; meaning it will not last for there is more negative points than positive ones. then please do not use this thing And that bring us to the next product which that you can get for around 7EUR. most exciting topic; but believe me when I you use glue more often than you think. bonds that I can then use fairly quickly and this bonds; but that one takes a full day to dry. better balance between bond strength and dry time. into the included UV lamp, poured some glue And super quickly within a minute pretty good start I would say. 3D printed part, I started to realized that the So for a more scientific test I next 3D printed used all 3 of my different glues to connect for some wood and metal test pieces as well. the pieces to my workbench one after the other and find out at which point the glue bond breaks. break the two component adhesive since I Except for the metal test piece But that is still a good result considering Other than that though, hot glue also could not separate any of the other test pieces. and oh boy this stuff performed terribly One reason for is that the UV glue apparently no UV light got there. will not use UV resign glue in the future. is hopefully good and it is this 5.5inch OLED But wait a minute; in the last AliExpress that was not only cheaper; but also bigger. quality; but this small one supposedly That would make it perfect for a raspberry So to test it I firstly hooked it up touchscreen worked immediately, but To fix that you can sadly not Instead you have to adjust the output settings of At this point I noticed how much better the comparison to my laptop and the reason for that And another thing I loved was that this But on the other hand there were also some and thus delicate, the touchscreen apparently and this thing does not immediately work Now I bet though there are settings we can adjust work; but for now it is kind of a mixed bag And if you are looking for other display the seller of my screen who offers Ok and now that I found something good; dubious with these two different kinds of signal According to their product descriptions you and badabom badabeng you have better reception. antenna attached to your phone which would But who knows, maybe it does work circuit near an oscillator can improve So I tested my 4G download and upload speed attaching the two signal boosters right And to my surprise the signal strength doing lots of download and upload speed tests, I even checked with my tiny spectrum analyzer what were and once again there was no noticeable So according to my test results And that brings us to the last product which you can get for around 20EUR. an oscilloscope is a super handy tool when only problem is that they are not really cheap. price excuse anymore to not have an cheapest version without battery or probes. function generator and I got to I mean the display is clear, the auto pretty much all important parameters and except sometimes the frequency measurement. scrolling through all parameters the smallest time per division value is 10us. inspected well with this scope; but hey that is So next I wanted to test single measurements at a specific voltage value which the but ultimately it somehow worked. disadvantage of the mini scope is that Of course you also not get access to decoding and a bit more. for 20EUR you still get an awesome beginners basics of working with an oscilloscope. as well as the hardware quality; this And just like that we successfully covered which for the first time I think got But I hope you still got entertained and If so don't forget to like, share, Stay creative and I will see you next time.