Introduction the maritime empire of Numenor stands out as the men. Numenor was a nation built on the great deeds mortality. Yet, as generations passed, accomplishments, their hubris leading them eternal life. The Numenoreans forgot became resentful of it, and rebelled their doom. The Rise and Fall of Numenor is for it was the pride of Man that led its The Coming of the Second Age the War of Wrath saw the host of the Valar majority of his Balrogs were destroyed, uncounted of Darkness fled east. However, this victory was the north and western parts of Beleriand while with new rivers as valleys were flooded. In the Elves of Beleriand, telling them they could Tol Eressea, while others stayed in Middle-Earth. The three houses of the Edain, alone of the other humans fought for Morgoth. After the war, faithfulness, and the Edain asked for two things: but long life more hesitantly, and only after The Geography of Numenor. a large island was created for their dwelling. It was raised by Osse out of the depths of the Great The Eldar came to this island bearing flowers shaped like a five-pointed star. The Valar called called it Elenna, meaning "Starwards" or Anadune The five peninsular promontories of Numenor Hyanuster and Forostar, and each of them The northern promontory of Forostar was a moors and woodlands of larch and fir. On its where Eagles resided in nearby hills. It was northernmost part of Numenor where the sky was of Forostar was the city of Ondosto, where The western promontory of Andustar was a land three bays on its western shores and the the bay was the titular port city, Andunie, of the kingdoms in exile. Tar-Minastir built so he could try to glimpse upon Tol Eressea. The also very fertile and ideal for farming and the was mountainous, and her long southern shores the southeast promontory, was most iconic for mouths of the Siril river. On the Siril river Hyarrostar was also famous for her trees that shipping. The final and easternmost promontory rough rectangular block stretching out some 200 side. She was colder in climate than her four but her inland territories consisted of fertile Within the central part of Numenor was Rising up from the center of this region was a the Pillar of Heaven. Atop it was a hallowed kings of Numenor could speak, and all others tradition of bringing the first fruits of the Eru Iluvatar. The two main rivers of Numenor with the Nunduine flowing westwards and the Mittalmar held the most important region of the the royal city of Armenelos was built Noirinan, and the Valley of the Tombs. Along her lay the haven of Eldalonde. Around it was the Fragrant trees brought over from Tol Eressea grew. was a small island called Tol Uinen, which had of the Seas." There, the devotees of Uinen, known The Emigration to Numenor sons of Earendil a choice. They could be counted Elven immortality, while Elros chose to accept the Valar blessed him with a longer lifespan than any the first king of Numenor. In S.A 32, he a fleet of 150 vessels bearing 5000-10,000 the settlers of Numenor became known as by Druedain refugees who had dwelt at the Edain gradually migrated to Numenor over the perhaps 200,000-350,000 Edain sailed to the the Numenorean population could have reached a of Hador settled mostly on the island, those of the few surviving members of the house of Haleth Numenorean characteristics that was the land of Numenor, Eonwe came to the wisdom, power and long life. Prior to swiftly under the Eldar of all the art and their children increased in wisdom and skill, far the Edain were swift learners under Eonwe, Numenoreans learned how to build ships and ever loving sea-craft above all else. The Valar so far west that they could no longer see their As a byproduct of their blessing of long life, women gave birth to children more easily, and they Men. The average height of a Numenorean was 6'4", were descended from the house of Hadar and and fair-skinned. Those descended from the house brown eyes. The few Numenorians descended from those of the house of Beor. Dwelling in the far Elvish tongue, they became hardly distinguishable though their children were born fairer than their It is said alongside their fairness, their wills at least an intuitive degree of Osanwe, the Some of the noble Numenoreans even held a degree the Druedain population on Numenor also had a Tar-Aldarion, the Druedain foresaw evil emigrate back to Middle-Earth, and by the fall Because Numenor was within sight of Tol those who lived there were given a lifespan thrice 350-420 years in the beginning but would decline races of men, the Numenoreans best understood when Numenoreans felt the first signs of waning, die of their own free will. However, many accept it. For those who clung to life for as become senile and decrepit, declining in length The Language of Numenor polyglot people. Over time, they would come to many of the Edain had learned the Elvish tongue Numenorian nobles and other highly educated Quenya. Adunaic was derived from Taliska, a This language would be of great value to the allowing them to understand the tongues of the the Elven languages thus, the lords and highly as the shadow fell upon Numenor, Adunaic began to be the first to take his name in Adunaic, in his presence. In Numenor's twilight years, The Culture of Numenor most of its population became fishermen. Although promontory of Orrostar provided her people with love for equestrianism, breeding great horses that never used these horses for war, as all of their wars, they bred Middle-Earth horses that could who often were not Numenorean but native were bred for sport. Numenoreans enjoyed and Women rode for pleasure, and riding was the most of Numenors roads were unpaved making carriages more or less obsolete. Numenorian great distances, and sometimes, they One of the most intriguing and bizarre Forostar and was known as the Great Bear where wild black bears performed a dance During these dances, as many as 50 bears Numenoreans practiced a religion dedicated to Iluvatar was the only God and that worship of had religious ceremonies known as the Three &quot;the Prayer to Eru,&quot; Erulaitale, the &quot;praise Eru.&quot; These took place in spring, midsummer and the King or Queen wore all-white garlands and was made at its summit and the King or Queen that only the royal line could give such speeches Meneltarma during these ceremonies, prompting the Manwe. Once Numenor came under the shadow, its Prayers. The last king of Numenor, Ar-Pharazon, ending the three prayers custom after 3000 years he was seduced by him to worship Melkor. A new of Armenelos, where Melkor was worshiped This temple to Melkor was said to be around with walls 50 feet thick. At its top was a burnings. Within the temple was a great altar with the temple priest. The first thing that was burnt of Celeborn given by the Eldar from Tol Eressea. and her wood was used to light the first flames before Nimloth was cut down, Isildur stole a fruit were made in the hopes Melkor would lift the Numenorians the immortality they craved. It is was sitting in the black seat, laughing to himself The Military of Numenor the Edain brought with them the most knowledgeable men , many of whom had learned under the Eldar. Tol Eressea, who shared their knowledge with the among the most skilled weapon and armoursmiths in craftsmen developed highly advanced ironsmith enough to penetrate the hide of trolls. A Guild under the Noldor, which specialized in the forging weaponry. The Numenorians were masters in the iron and steel. They crafted spell-wrapped and it is also possible that they imbued spells like Orthanc or the walls of Minas Tirith. Many such as the Ring of Barahir, Axe of Tuor, Bow As a consequence of their advanced metallurgy, militaries to ever exist in Arda. At the top Numenor, a title held by 25 rulers over Numenor's Numenor held the Sceptre of Numenor, which gave forces. Underneath the King were noble families, within the military hierarchy. After the royal were the Lords of Andunie, who ruled over Sceptre of Annuminas. The King held the power of there was an advisory body, the Council of the of the Heir of the King and lords from the were the most prominent amongst the Council. equivalent to those of military chiefs of staff, be charged with overseeing strategic decisions at and thus, many of its commanders would have had of is Admiral Ciryatur, who was the commander of Gil-Galad during the War of the Elves and Sauron Aldarion, who founded the Uinendili or "Guild of Petty officers in the Numenorian army were Numenoreans who had risen through the leading units at various levels. The backbone of as Numenor was a maritime power whose sphere of However, the Numenorians utilized other unit squadrons, support units and an auxiliary were maritime-based, but as the shadow fell upon the Palantiri, stones that could communicate distance. One stone remained at the Tower seven palantiri across middle-earth after the in exile to benefit from superior lines of Since all of Numenor's battles were amphibious and infantry. The Numenorean infantry-marine soldier of our world. They went to battle weapons, supplies and provisions. Each man which contained a small phial of cordial them for many days. Numenorian waybread lembas of the Eldar. With all of this, they taking short breaks at the end of each league they could push to 12 leagues a day, Numenorian marines wore a helmet called plates of metal, covered with a crest of embossed fish . We have no details on what Numenorean but given the Atlantean themes of Tolkien's perhaps with a Mediterranean flair. Artist to late second age Numenorean armour utilizing the cleverly wrought and magnificently decorated The infantry-marine weaponry was swords, axes, light, rustproof, strong and glittered in swords and shields as a result of their towered above the tallest Orcs, and their swords enemies." For close-range combat, Numenorian worn as a side arm and described as pointed and two-edged, from a foot The infantry-marines fought in phalanx used a formation known as the Thangail, forming shields. The Thangail was designed to be both of its ends to prevent flanking maneuvers an unbroken circle of shields. This was akin to Ancient Roman Testudo. They also used an offensive formation launched over a short distance against It was designed for rapid attacks to disorganize size and strength. However, while the Numenoreans their size and strength in close quarters, it was Indeed, the Numenorean had a specialized whose cohorts bore bows created from hollow steel The bows of the Numenoreans were greatly 'the Men of the Sea send before them a or a black hail tipped with steel.' Numenorean shooting longbows with massive draw weights with yards. Numenoreans archers used both longbows while shooting from horseback. They also utilized The Ships of Numenor horsemanship and metallurgy, the greatest love Numenorean ships were known to have up to five sail powers, others also had oars. Once under by slaves. In early notes, Tolkien stated that go without the wind" and ships that were "made not in calm or storm." Tolkien also wrote about suggesting airships, but he disregarded that Numenor had any steam or airships, giving them a level of naval technology There were many famous Numenorean ships, such mariner Veantur during the time of Tar-Elendil ship to journey back to Middle-Earth when she vessel of Numerramar was the first ship Aldarion the Bay of Belfalas and most of the coasts of Numerramar, Aldarion built Eambar as a dwelling a massive ship, anchored originally off Tol Uinen, Aldarion built Hirilonde, known as Romenna. Onlookers marvelled at her tremendous Whale." Aldarion first sailed the Hirilonde in The Numenoreans held a custom that when one typically a relative to the captain, would place as the Green Bought of Return. It was a token of good fortune. However, when it was time to the Palarran, Aldarion's father, Tar-Meneldur, doing so. The oiolaire was instead brought by with her. When Aldarion became King of Numenor his then-wife Erendis had become estranged from her anger, she refused to bring the oiolaire a golden beak and jewelled eyes on the prow of him by Cirdan. Yet by far, the most formidable known as the "Castle of the Sea." She was the last King of Numenor. She had numerous The early history of Numenor Elros took the title Tar-Minyatur, meaning "first of taking his kingly title in Quenya as it was Numenor established a close friendship with Numenor on white ships bearing gifts such as of Celeborn that grew into the white tree longest of any Numenorean king. Under his rule, but when he reached the age of 500, he felt the After Elros' death, the Scepter of Numenor was Vardamir. Instead of a crown, the Kings and primary symbol of their royal authority. The to the heir among the early kings, but shadow. Beyond the royal sceptre, there which was created for the Lord of Andunie The Scepter of Andunie survived the fall of Scepter of Annuminas. After inheriting the throne meaning "Learned One," for his chief love was Tar-Minyatur's incredibly long life, Nolimon only of age. He reigned as king only a single year Amandil. In doing so, Vardamir established a to pass on the sceptre out of their own free Tar-Amandil, meaning "Lover of Aman," ruled for up the sceptre in S.A 590 after handing it meaning "elf-friend," ruled for 150 for he wrote numerous books citing the vast Tar-Elendil married late in life, and his It was during Tar-Elendil's reign in S.A 600 set sail upon Entulesse for the Grey Havens These were dark years for the Men who had been forced into servitude under Sauron. the Middle Men of Eriador came to meet taught the Middle Men many things, which Sauron. Soon, the Middle Men began to revere the Tar-Elendil had three children: two daughters Because the custom was to pass the sceptre to who became Tar-Meneldur. Despite this, his eldest her own right as Tar-Elendil gave her the Ring of of Andunie. The Lords of Andunie became esteemed of nobles and lords from the six regions of the throne was named, they would join the council were the most prominent of the chief councillors. of Andunie remained faithful to the Valar and of sceptres, the Lords of Andunie attempted to King Tar-Meneldur, whose name meant "servant of his reign, many journeys to Middle Earth were son Anardil. Anardil became known as Aldarion of Middle-Earth's coasts. In S.A 725, Veantur despite Meneldur's reluctance to the idea. They Lindon and west Eriador, where they established Thus began Aldarion's love of the sea-voyaging, His endless oceanic escapades also prompted the for the strange foresight they possessed told onto the seas again between S.A 730 and 735, Gwathlo, and Baranduin, circling the cape of Aldarion founded the Guild of Venturers , a fixed guildhouse on land and instead built and his venturers visited Gil-Galad in Lindon and King Tar-Meneldur was greatly displeased that his concerned that Aldarion was increasing the over other lands. He attempted to curb his of trees for shipbuilding. However, Aldarion the haven of Vinyalonde at the mouth of the to cut down trees to build ships. Vinyalonde Numenoreans in Middle-earth and one of within a few centuries, deforestation angering the local forest folk. These people communities within the forests. They began in the area between S.A 863 to 869, the forest directly. The forest folk also began a rumour of In S.A 800, Tar-Meneldur commanded Aldarion Aldarion persuaded his father to agree after voyage in S.A 806, Aldarion returned with around this time that Aldarion fell in love with by his love for the sea. When he returned, but he did so in defiance of his father. Between and returned with gifts for his mother, to whom he bequeathed diamonds. Between S.A 824 and returned with nine ships carrying timber In S.A 877 to 882, Aldarion voyaged upon letter from King Galad to Tar-Meneldur. The letter east and that Gil-Galad sought help from Numenor Tar-Meneldur then realized his son had aided the shadow in the east. Tar-Meneldur recognized handle the situation; thus, he handed over the Tar-Aldarion continued voyaging for 18 years after sailing up the river Gwathlo and meeting constantly away from home, Tar-Aldarions and they only had one child, a single daughter Tar-Aldarion changed the law of succession. The an inherited custom stating the king should became too old to rule. If the King had no sons, relative of male descent. This would have meant sceptre. However, Tar-Aldarion's new law changed the King was still the first in line if the offered the Heirship. If the eldest daughter either male or female, would become king. If the she would have to resign if she remained unwed in Tar-Aldarion's new law was that the king's Tar-Aldarion abdicated in S.A 1075, Numenor. Tar-Ancalime ruled for 205 years, the a young girl, Ancalime, meaning "brightest," with her mother, Erendis and servant Zamin region of Mittalmar. This house was a gift built pastures. There, Ancalime was educated by her the scrolls of ancient history. Ancalime shared she became resolute and abstained from politics, towards men and marriage. She was only 19 years of immediately fled into the countryside, hiding from her hand in marriage following the announcement. meaning "princess Shepherdess." In S.A 1000, if only to thwart her cousin Soronto from and neglected the policies of her father, such she surrendered the sceptre to her son Little is written about the rule of Tar-Anarion, is that his two eldest daughters refused Ancalime. Thus, after Tar-Anarion, the meaning "wind son." Tar-Surion ruled for 162 line. His eldest child was a female who would the Rings of Power were forged. Tar-Telperien, Queen of Numenor and presided over a highly Sauron had forged the One Ring, with which he Sauron managed to deceive the great Elven smith but unbeknownst to him, Celebrimbor had forged the Sauron took up his One Ring and Celebrimbor the alarm. Losing the element of surprise, Sauron preemptively attacking them before they could In S.A. 1695, Gil-Galad dispatched an word to Numenor requesting aid. Tar-Minaster, the fleet commanded by Ciryatur. Ciryatur divided Meanwhile, Sauron deployed a great host to invade defeating Sauron's vanguard. However, Celeborn's army to Ost-in-Edhil, where they Ost-in-Edhil fell as Celembrimbor led a desperate Elrond and Celeborn's forces were dislodged sacked the House of the Mirdain and seized the executed Celebrimbor, hanging his body on a pole then turned his forces upon Elrond's army, but attacking his rear while aided by a force of fleeing northwards to establish drove the Dwarves and Galadhrim back into Seeking the Three Rings of Power, Sauron then to besiege Imladris to protect his rear. In S.A the rivers Lhun and Mithlond. Sauron then summoned the Grey Havens. But then Ciryatur's main force Gil-Galad, they defeated Sauron at the river Lhun. Sarn Ford, where he suffered another terrible to link up with reinforcements at Tharbad. amphibiously assaulted Long Daer, attacking Sauron forces attacked from the north. Sauron's army was to escape the carnage. After this, the dark lord's Dagorlad, where they were finally broken, forcing Thus, Eriador was saved. Thereafter, Gil-Galad annihilated its besiegers. Sauron would never Numenor who foiled his plans. Henceforth, Sauron A White Council was held amongst the was determined Imladris would replace Eregion as vice-regent over Eriador and gave him Vilya would survive many ages. Thus, the Numenoreans and became more invested in it. Beginning establishing more permanent settlements on Tar-Minaster, meaning "tower watcher," took the a lot of experience during the war with Sauron and Numenor. He took his name because he built a high Tol Eressea. Under his reign, the Numenoreans openly spoke about it. When Sauron learned that he became furious. Sauron feared them, believing dared not challenge the Numenoreans. Instead, the coasts, waiting patiently for the shadow Numenor under the shadow whose name meant "shipbuilder," had to royal sceptre in S.A 1869. He repudiated Lands of the West and instead focused his Tar-Ciryatan built a great fleet that sailed to of great gems and metals. Under his reign, his had once revered them as gods and began speaking expressed their desire to sail to Tol Eressea Men. These ill tidings were considered the first Even now, the corruption of Morgoth was through the land's inhabitants. Like his father, Numenor exacted heavy tributes upon the lesser colonies in the region slowly became fortresses subjects. During the reign of Tar-Ciryatan, the the ban of the Valar, and their covetousness The Numenoreans now divided themselves into two known titularly as the King's Men, and those who welcome the Elves of Tol Eressea. These folk they migrated away from the western parts numerous. The faithful were most prominent in descended through Silmarien. The lords of Andunie trying to dissuade Kings of Numenor from evil The Elves who came to Numenor during this were saddened at how far their once-friends of what was happening on the star-shaped isle grew deeply concerned and dispatched messengers it would only spell doom for them. He further for the Elves knew not where Men Manwe stressed that the men of Numenor should they had once all fought valiantly against had the Nazgul appeared in Middle-Earth. When Men became greater. Emboldened, he even began Tar-Ciryatan was succeeded by his son, though many called him "the Unwilling" for to give up his life and the sceptre to his heir whose title meant "brightest," took the scepter ban of the Valar and the faithful, furthering many of the King's Men had begun to forsake teach them to their children. Despite this, if the tradition was broken, ill things would the King's Men built a great fortress in Umbar of Middle-Earth. The faithful did not partake in parts of Middle-Earth and visited the lands of called Pelargir where many faithful emigrated. of the three prayers was nearly abandoned as so much so that it is said the mausoleums of their Next to rule was Tar-Telemmaite, whose title his love of silver and his habit of constantly From his reign onwards, the kings of Numenor and witless instead of stepping aside to allow behalf. During Tar-Telemmaite's reign, the lives over their morality and became angry against dying in S.A 2825 and handing the Tar-Vanimelde, whose title meant "elven reigning for 111 years. She cared little days with dancing and music. Thus, the true Herucalmo. When the Queen died in S.A 2637, and Herucalmo refused to give it up. Despite he declared himself King and took the title Tar-Anducal ruled for 20 years until his death considered an illegitimate usurper and not Tar-Anducal was succeeded by Tar-Calmacil, whose young when he took the scepter. During his youth, the coasts of Middle-Earth. Sauron responded to withdrawing his forces further from the coasts it became more and more popular for the his Adunaic title. Thus, Tar-Calmacil but as Ar-Belzagar. In S.A 2825, Tar-Ardamin, also known by his Adunaic title of Ar-Abattarik. He died in S.A 2899, handing the At this point, most of the Numenorian population meaning "lord of the west," would be the first their title in Quenya. Despite this, he was still scroll of kings, for he feared that completely onto Numenor. His Adunaic title was considered Manwe was the 'Lord of the West.' During his though the faithful maintained it in secrecy. From Numenor, and if they did, it was in secret and of his predecessors, Ar-Adunakhor implemented In S.A 2962, Ar-Zimrathon, whose regnal name and continued his father's tradition in the Scroll of Kings, his title was inscribed reigning for 71 years until his death in S.A meaning "shore son." Ar-Sakalthor's name as Tar-Falassion. He ruled a year less Ar-Sakalthor was succeeded by Ar-Gimilzor, whose the scroll of Kings as Tar-Telemnar. Ar-Gimilzor to date. He disallowed all Elven speech and believing they were spies of the Valar. he punished the faithful who had allowed what was happening in Numenor with anger and the Star Isle with his advice, but they had protect them. From that point onwards, Tol Ar-Gimilzor became the first King never to decline. He gradually began exiling members of near the haven of Romenna, where they were kept faithful began emigrating to the northern shores Inzilbeth, was unbeknownst to the King, a member of Tar-Calmacil and sister to Earendur, the to press her beliefs upon their eldest son, remained as dogmatic as his father. Later on, the faithful, their marriage soured. his second son Gimilkhad receive the sceptre, Inziladun took the sceptre in S.A 3177 taking a Quenya title, Tar-Palantir, which meant many challenges. Numenor had fallen deeper under had also grown vastly richer and more powerful, of the mannish blessing of mortality, and thus the much of the ways of his predecessors, trying to He stopped the persecution of the faithful, ascended Meneltarma for the three prayers. He his mother's kin, ascending Tar-Minastir to see could not see Tol Eressea, and no ships came, member of the faithful, the majority of Numenor During the latter part of Tal-Palantir's rule, brother Gimilkhad led the King's Men to resist it lurked about in secrecy. Gimilkhad died for Gimilkhad's son, Pharazon, took up power-hungry than his father and proved himself a in Middle-Earth against the lesser men to extend his father was dead, and he began using his By the twilight of his reign, Tar-Palantir for Numenor and her people. Tar-Palantir had a daughter named Miriel. According Miriel was the heir apparent. However, Pharazon forced her to marry him against against a Numenorian law which prohibited first Pharazon afterwards changed his wife's name Ar-Pharazon, whose title meant "golden," took and last king of Numenor. Ar-Pharazon was the ever see. As he sat upon the throne in Armenelos, Ar-Pharazon received reports about recent assailing Numenorean settlements in Middle-earth the Dark Lord had assumed the titles of "King of "Lord of the World." Ar-Pharazon was outraged by upon hearing them as well, for he sought power everything. Thus, he resolved to achieve this him to be his servant and acknowledge him as the Numenoreans to build a grand fleet and forge S.A 3261, Ar-Pharazon sailed with this newly at the sight of his ships, the lesser men were and they began a march upon Mordor. The might who began to desert him en masse. Ar-Pharazon dispatching heralds to call Sauron forth match the military strength of Numenor, so himself before Ar-Pharazon. Sauron smoothed and wise ruler. Ar-Pharazon then took away all captivity as a prized hostage to be brought back came to Numenor, pretending the situation for all this was naught but Sauron's Sauron's corruption of Numenor city of Armenelos for the first time, his hatred Sauron quickly won the hearts of the Numenoreans, against the Valar, who he knew the Numenoreans which time Sauron became known to the Numenoreans counsellors. Sauron used flattery to rise ever pride was easily exploited. Only Amandil, lord Terrible changes began to come over Numenor; the for Middle-Earth. Those who stayed watched as Sauron began telling Ar-Pharazon that there were but even if the Numenoreans conquered all of those explained, "And out that darkness, the world and the Lord thereof may yet make other worlds increase of their power shall find no end." To was, and Sauron answered, "It is he whose name is concerning him putting forward the name of Eru, seeking to enchain Men in servitude to themselves. only what they will. But he that is their master this phantom; and his name is Melkor, Lord of All, than they." Thus, Ar-Pharazon was seduced but gradually openly in the face of his people. with only the Faithful remaining as the last During these dark times, the faithful lived led by Amandil and his son Elendil. Elendil had Elendil were great captains from the line Amandil remained on the counsel of until Ar-Pharazon stripped him of the Amandil drew all of the faithful to him in so great a captain Amandil was that even Sauron Under Sauron's influence, Ar-Pharazon completely forbidding any from ascending it. Sauron also tree of Nimloth, but Ar-Pharazon resisted at Tar-Palantir, who once said that when the of Elros perish. When Amandil heard word that he became fraught with concern. Amandil had told of Valinor, and this prompted Isildur to take the court of Armenelos, getting past its guards yet before he could get away, a guard spotted many wounds but escaped in his disguise He came back to Romenna, handing the fruit to planted the fruit in secrecy, and it sprouted so did Isildur's eyes as he awoke from near Eventually, Ar-Pharazon gave in to Sauron Numenoreans build a round temple atop a hill feet across its center, with walls rising 500 within it, a great altar of fire and a louver that priest of this temple, Sauron had Nimloth burned humans, often the faithful, had begun to burned in the hope Melkor would release but such bloody offerings did not yield what after the sacrifices began, death only The Downfall of Numenor the Numenoreans understood the gift of men and may die peacefully. Now, however, they were of the blessing of mortality and clung to life human sacrifice was not preventing their deaths knew no sickness, now they got sick and often Numenoreans were now even taking Despite their madness, the Numenoreans were still the lesser men of middle-earth, pillaging them at the great altar of fire. Ar-Pharazon had but in truth it was Sauron controlling him as a the wane, and it terrified him. Sauron advised him plan. Ar-Pharazon's empire had grown so great that to take anything he desired, even from the very have possessed themselves of the land where there hiding it as best they may, because of their Men should wrest from them the deathless realm doubtless, the gift of life unending is not being men of might and pride and great lineage, which is his due, should be withheld from the of Earth, to whom Manwe alone can be compared if take what is their due." Thus, Ar-Pharazon was Ar-Pharazon ordered a great armament for his soon discovered this armament. Alarmed, Amandil west despite the ban to seek help from the Valar He would do this secretly, lest Ar-Pharazon and Elendil to prepare ships for the faithful so they three servants and sailed off, first heading heard from again. Elendil, meanwhile, followed his seemed to be the ruin of Numenor. Elendil had heirlooms. In going into exodus, they brought which were divided amongst the ships of ship of Isildur was a tiny scion of Nimloth, The weather around Numenor had always suited her rains and hail fell from a darkened sky while a great cloud would come from the west in the did. Lighting could be seen under the eagle's During this time, the lightning increased, and it. A tremendous bolt hit the dome of Melkor's temple stood strong as Sauron stood inside it atop the King's Men believed Sauron was a The last warning the Numenorians received and shaking of the land as smoke issued continuing the great armament of Ar-Pharazon. For nine years, the great armament had been while Elendil had gathered a small fleet in her their ships with banners of gold and black, their Meanwhile, Sauron went to Melkor's temple and to be burned. As the day fell, the Eagles of for battle. It seemed all of Numenor burned Ar-Pharazon gave the signal to depart. He known as "the castle of the sea." It was sails and many masts and oars. Those in Numenor The fleet was so large that it compared to the Numenor. The Eldar on Tol Eressea saw the fleet entire island on its way to Aman, and they mourned long last, Ar-Pharazon's fleet anchored off the Taniquetil and became terrified, nearly ordering and his pride carried him ashore as he set foot him. Ar-Pharazon led the army to the Elven city Tuna. The Eldar fled in fear of the Numenorean for the Valar were forbidden from killing or proclaimed that if no one would challenge him for Terrified of what the Numenoreans would do as the Valar relinquished their governance changing Arda forever. A great chasm opened Ar-Pharazon, and all the soldiers who had dared buried under falling hills, their tomb becoming then pulled Aman and Tol Eressea into the mists as sank into the abyss. Sauron, who had remained laughing to himself at his tremendous success Just as the abyss came upon him, he mulled Earth. A goal which, with Numenor out of the With Eru Iluvatar's intervention, the flat and Tol Eressea were no longer of Arda, and them through the straight. Eru Iluvatar lands to the east of Middle-Earth. From the Great Sea would find no barrier and instead Conclusion was triumphant, he had made one critical his power into the One Ring. In doing so, making the same mistake as Melkor once had. he diminished and became trapped in the incarnate a similar fate. Although Sauron's physical body diminished, losing the ability to take on his fair Sauron became captive to the One Ring. His spirit and he would be slow to rebuild his physical hatred made visible. No longer able to achieve he could now only rule through terror and force. destroy his hated enemy, Sauron had diminished While Numenor was no more, many Numenoreans, both The King's Men who were in the Numenorean downfall established new realms in the south, known as Black Numenoreans and continued to Herumor and Fuirnor, would later rise to Sauron would call upon the Black Numenoreans it is unknown if Amandil made it to Valinor, but Numenor, a wind came out of the west, sending ships were driven east, but their masts broke, Elendil and his sons arrived in Middle-earth had already established themselves in the realms for although these refugees were but an echo of Gondor, which descended directly from the line of The downfall of Numenor echoes the the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and is connected to Tolkien's overall theme of people are sundered over time. The story the perils of pride, greed, and lust for to their doom. Ultimately, it was the hubris More videos on the works of Tolkien and so make sure you are subscribed and have pressed commenting, and sharing - it helps immensely. kind patrons and YouTube channel members, the description to learn about our schedule, get and much more. This is the Wizards and Warriors