Amazing; you'll never be able to look at circles the same way after I show you the way to work out the radius of this circle. I've got something special for you today: I have a sequence of numbers that I want you to be able to work out what the next number in the sequence is. These are fractions so it's going to be 1 on 15, 1 on 23, 1 on 39, 1 on 63 and then...something. There are lots of ways I could show you how to solve this, but today I'm going to show you a very special way how to solve it. Okay so we're just going to put this over here; I need to get some equipment. start drawing some circles. Oh my goodness me- have you ever have you ever done a video where it's like the paper itself has to be precise? Now I can use my other precision instrument here, my second circle circle number 2. Look at that! Okay so these ones are exactly the same, and they're half the diameter of the big circle. This is going to be fun once we actually get there. That was hard to get these ones to kiss, so they're now kissing. These are kissing circles; so mathematically we'd say that they're touching tangentially. Look they're kissing now. Okay - Brady you know hard it is to get four circles to kiss? Do you know how hard that is? You know I have to- I have to confess you I've done this a few times, this is the This blue circle here, just so happens that the radius of this blue circle here is one fifteenth of this big circle. It's one fifteenth. Okay let me keep going. So this is called a Pappus chain what I'm doing here; so having one circle touching the inside of another circle, kissing, and then having circles fitting in and touching all one another. It's a big touch fest today. So these things have been Okay so this one here touching, touching, touching, so this one here, this this new blue circle, this one happens to be one twenty third of the original radius - one twenty third. This one's good, look at that beautiful. It is very zen. The next one here, this little guy, happens to be one thirty ninth of the original large circles. There you go. I don't know how much more of this compass I can use. Okay so this guy here, his radius is 1/63 the original radius of the big circle, 1/63. And so what's the next one going to be? Well let's draw it in shall we? This here, this here now belongs to these circles. And so the question is, what is the radius of this circle in reference to our first circle? Now there's plenty of ways we could actually work that out; we could get busy with our rulers and start drawing triangles and maybe start getting angles and maybe start using different kind of theorems and whatnot to try and get there - but there is one way to solve this problem which is absolutely amazing - absolutely It is the way to solve this problem. What I'm going to show you is actually amazingly hard core, there's a information dealing with this so what you have to do is- I'm going to try and show you just what we need for this problem and hopefully you can go and have a look at all the other stuff in your own time, but this is something that we just - Brady you'll have to trust me - to show you exactly what we need for this problem and no more. But if your imagination is fired up that's because you're thinking, that's good. The way to solve this problem is using a method called circle inversion. As a quick introduction: I think most people have seen a reflection of themselves correct? So if you think about that, you've got your eyeball here, so here's your eyeball. So now you know how reflections work right? So what you see is the mirror opposite but what actually is going on is it's this distance here - we're going to do this quite rough Brady if that's all right? Okay we know how mirrors work don't we? So look at this it's the eyeball, it's your eyeball looking back at you right? This is called a reflection. So we're going to do a special type of reflection to solve this problem, it's called a circle inversion okay? Now this is how it works: first off you got to start with a circle, so this circle here we're going to be- it's our circle of inversion. So first of all what we need to do is we need to what we need to know the radius, that's really important Brady okay. So in this case here the radius is 60. Say we put a point out here okay? So say we put a point here, okay, and that point there is going to be A and this point here is O for origin. So now we did a reflection, what happens in inversion is first of all we're going to measure OA. So we know OA equals 30. So this point here we're actually going to invert it, and this is how you do it: you take this length here, right, which we know is 30, and you multiply by the point we're going to, we don't know where it is just yet, and it equals the circle radius squared. So this equals 60 squared. So in this case, this is 30 times where we want to go, equals 60 squared. So if we just divide through and do a quick little bit of calculation...then that goes twice so that means...equals 120. And so what that what we've done there is we've actually taken this point all the way out on exactly the same line to here. So this length here is OA dash and it equals 120, and this length here is OA and that equals 30; so 30 times 120 equals the radius squared. So this point has been inverted to this point. So whether you're inside the circle you go to the outside, and if you're outside you go to the inside, and it's all based on this these formulas. So that's it - that's circle inversion. Do you want to see what circle inversion can do? Right, so I've just drawn circle of inversion. So we've only inverted one point, what happens to all the points? The infinite number of points in a circle when you do the same process? Okay- (and invert it out to-) circle, that's right. So what do you think is going to happen to all these points, tell me. (you'll draw another circle out out here) (somewhere out in the It's going to be circular? Not an oval? (be another circle.) So this point here has been inverted to that point there. So you can see the closer it is to the circle of inversion the closer it is on the other side. So can you divide that- Oh, Brady. planned this very well, this is huge. So cos this one is here this inverts out all the way to here. So this has already got some very unusual properties right? Wow look at this we've actually gone over the original, man we're all over the place with this one, this is huge! So it's different to a reflection where where it's not scaled but this in a sense is scaled. This inverts to this and what you'll find is that you'll get these points on the edge, you see that? Where they're both touching. There'll be one point where they touch both here and here, and one point where they touch over here and here. Okay. If we measure this length and times it by that length we'll get 60 squared, okay? So what happens is a circle will invert to another circle okay? And - we don't do this because we showed before - the points go back. So if we started with this circle on the outside it'd come back to this one. Now the other thing that you need to know is that this is true as well if the circle happens to overlap the circle of inversion. So you could think, what happens if the circle that we're inverting, what happens to this circle Brady? Will we still get a circle? Well we will. We definitely still get a circle. This point, if this is A, this'll invert to a point there, A dash. Yeah, exactly. (small and then come out big.) points we've already seen on the circle? Can you see two points that we already know are going to be on this inverted circle? The ones that you can you see there Brady we've done a inversion circle and it's crossed here, it's crossed here kind of a little bit there, but you can see that it still makes another circle. more I'm going to show you, got to show you. Can I just say, it's important that you prove these things to yourself, but I'm not going to prove them today. I'll show you this because this one this one's weird. And what about a circle that actually passes through the origin? Well think about it, well if there's a point on the origin right, what's the length from the origin if you're at the origin? Zero. So really it's going to blow up, so points that get very very close to the origin are going to get huge towards infinity. So we're really talking about a massive circle here, and you know how massive? It just looks like a line. So any circle that passes through the origin of the circle inversion will invert to a line. And lo and behold, check it out. Look at that. So circle inversion - amazing! Look at the properties, circles invert to circles okay? Big goes to small, small goes to big. If a circle crosses the circle of inversion it still looks like a circle. And then, I think most stunning of all, a circle that passes through the origin will invert to a straight line. So this is all we need, these two facts - well kind of fact 1a and 1b - and then fact 2, okay? That's all we need. So now with our information about circle inversion how can we actually solve this problem? Well what we need to do first we need to make a decision about what sort of circle we're actually going to use to invert. The way to solve this is to get this bad boy again and what we're going to do is we're actually going to do a circle of inversion that is exactly the same as our original circle. Okay so this is our original circle, we're going to put the origin of our circle of inversion right at the end. So this this green dotted line is our circle of inversion; and this is what we're going to do all our work with. Okay so this is our circle of inversion and remember it's got exactly the same radius as our original circle, that's important. Now, remember what I said Brady, what are the what are the things that we need to know about inversions? We need to know circles invert to circles, if they go over the same over the circle of inversion they still invert to circles - unless part of the circle goes through the centre of origin of the circle of inversion then it turns into a straight line. Bingo. Now, this is the reason why I came, because now I am able to invert these circles, and just using a ruler right I'm able to show you how beautiful how simple it is now to interpret this problem. This big circle here Brady, this big circle here, what does it invert to? Well first of all it passes through the centre of inversion, so we know it is going to turn into a straight line. Now where is that straight line going to be? Well you know what? I don't have to calculate anything because I already know that it intersects the circle of inversion there. So this is the radius, so this point goes back to itself. So we know that this point is on the straight line because it intersects the circle of inversion. Where? Exactly. So straight away you only need two points for the final line. So that we we know we can actually just really simply draw this in. We've just completed our first inverted circle. Next; what about this circle here? Do this circle here also passes through the centre of origin, but it kisses the inside- it kisses the inside of the inversion circle. Now that means it's going to invert to? Exactly. But where is it going to be? Is it going to be a straight line like that? Or like that? Well, let's circle here, okay, and this circle here are both going to invert to straight lines but they only touch at the point of origin; and that point of origin in effect is infinity. So if two lines only touch at infinity, well this is kind of tricky stuff here. That's the only- that's really isn't it? So you see the logic that you can draw out of just these simple rules of circles go to circles. The logic here is that, well, if it goes anything else it will eventually hit which means that point must be an intersecting point back here; but we know that doesn't happen because of this origin point. So you can deductively reason what happens here. Okay Brady, so this big circle is this one, and this circle is this one. Now what happens to this circle here? Well again we don't have to measure anything. This circle here touches the big circle and touches this circle; and we already know that this circle is that line and this circle is that line. So this has to be touching both this and this and so really there's only one thing it can be: if a circle inverts to a circle it has to be a circle that fits between these parallel lines. Well let's draw that in Brady. This has happened to there, this point hasn't moved because it's on the circle of inversion, but a circle has inverted to a circle. Now what about this guy here? How do we invert this one? Well straight away we know that two points have to be here and here, because they invert- while they're on a circle of inversion. Where's another point? Well this one here is on this circle here; and even though it actually in in this diagram it actually is on it an inverted circle, we have to remember that that's not where it's going it's actually going to here okay? This guy here, these two touch right there; so this is touching this circle, this circle is this circle. I think you should be able to see what's going on now - if this circle is touching this circle, this circle, and this circle then in the inversion these two circles are lines, this circle is here, touch that that and that which means it has to be another circle exactly the same radius exactly the same diameter. See how much symmetry there is, how beautiful this is, how awesome this is Brady? I mean these- the symmetry of this is just breath-taking. In the inverted world we still get kissing. Now Brady, there's another circle this blue one here. This is the guy here which is one fifteenth of the original radius, this is what I told you. Now we actually have to invert this guy. So this circle is that circle, this circle is that circle, this circle is actually over here, so that circle's there. So this guy in here is kissing 1, 2, 3 and of these purples it's 1, 2, 3; so we know that this blue guy has to actually be in here, has to touch all three. (it a rule that if you kiss in real life) (you have to kiss in the inversion too?) Exactly. Now this little circle is the inversion of the blue circle; what about the one that we really want, this one down here? How do we get there? Well, we've inverted 1, 2 - we've got to invert this guy now. So this guy inverts and you know what, it's becoming so simple to do because we know that it's a circle that has to touch this guy here, so this is touching this, and this is this, so this circle has to touch here, it's touching the big circle which we know is that line; we know it's touching this circle, it's that line - so it's just a straightforward process where we now have to just draw circles in, one on top of another. This Pappus chain of circles getting progressively smaller and smaller and smaller, under inversion, ends up being circles stacked on top of each other exactly the same radius exactly the same diameter, because they're fitting between two parallel lines. So this is absolutely beautiful. This is this one, this is this one, this is this one, this is this one, this is this one. So now if we think about it, in the Pappus chain, the blue guys are touching these circles and touching this circle here; so in the inversion, okay, we've already seen that this blue circle inverts here, so the pattern is going to stay the same. There's going to be a going to be a circle there, there's going to be a circle there, there's going circle there and all going to be exactly the same size. Okay, so if we can work out the diameter of this we can work out the diameter of this, and then we've got the radius. So how can we do that? This is epic, this is seriously epic. All right, here we go. So we've got- now this is a right angle, and we know that this circle here, even though that's so tiny, the centre of this circle will pass through the centre of this circle up here. We now have a massive right angle triangle. If we know this length here we can invert that length and it will give us the length through this circle; and because it's passing through the origin of this little circle it will tell us the diameter, and if we divide that by two it will tell us the radius. So shall we do it? Let's bring this home. I tell you what, this is absolutely epic. It's very pretty though isn't it? whole length here is R, it's the circle of inversion. So this half here is going to be R on 2 right? And this length here, well this circle here is a half of that, so right from here to here that's R on 4. And this, this little blue inverted circle here, is a quarter of that there, so that's actually R on 16. So just here. So what we're going to do is, we know that this whole length here, all the way across, R take R on 16, which is equal to 15 R on 16, so that's what that length is equal to. Now what about this long guy here? this distance from here to here is going to be R on 4, and all of these are R on 2. R on 2 plus R on 2, on 2; so that's going to be R plus R, so that's 2R, plus R on 4. So what we've got here then, so this whole length here, that's huge. 9R on 4. Now what we want to do is now that we've got Pythagoras' theorem and we worked out this length and this length we can work out the hypotenuse. From this O, which is the centre of the circle inversion, all the way to this centre here of this blue circle. When you work that out that comes to 39 on 16 R. Now we actually want to know the distance O to B dashed, because we know that will invert right back to this small circle. And we also want to know O to O dashed, but let's do this one first. know that O to B dash is equal to 39 on 16 R plus the radius of the small circle, which is R on 16, so that equals this. OA, so OA is over here, we're going back from this by R on 16, we're going back by the radius, so it looks like this 39 on 16 R take R on 16 - same denominators so 39, so we end up getting 38 on 16 R. Now we want to invert these, so we want to take O to B dash back to B, okay? So let's do that. So O to B; when we invert this we end up getting 16 on 40 R okay? And we do the same thing with O to A dash, we bring it back to the tiny little circle there, and that means O to A is this inverted, okay? And then we end up getting 8 on 19 R. Now, we've got O to the A, O to the B, we know they pass through the centre, so we know if we go OA take OB we will get the diameter of this small circle. And that happens to make it 2, so that's that ends up being 2 on 95 R. And because the radius is so the radius here of this small circle - so radius of small circle equals 1 on 95 R. So we know that the original circle, if we divide by 95, will give us that radius which means this is 1/95.