Stevie Wonder's song "Superstition" and today I'm going to show you that it's You can put this drum groove on ANYTHING and And when I say anything, I mean ANYTHING. Superstition is from Stevie's 1972 album 1 on the billboard hot 100, and Rolling Stone song OF ALL TIME. Superstition came about because Jeff Beck return, Stevie would to write a song for him. Jeff Beck came up with a drum beat, and Stevie demo by the end of the day. So yeah, technically Jeff Beck came up with up VERY DIFFERENT than Stevie's. Jeff Beck was going to release his version Barry Gordy at Motown heard it - he insisted Jeff Beck's version is much more rock driven, This version is completely different from The main reason? Other than the horns, Stevie is playing every the drums. Oh those sweet drums. So here's the part where we go completely And then I make it into a metaphor to help song. Ready? Do you know what blood type you are? STAY WITH ME - THIS WILL MAKE SENSE IN A MOMENT So there are a bunch of different blood types, versions of each, so that's a total of 8 Right now, you've got one of those blood Without going too far into this, basically, and need a transfusion you CAN'T receive Your body would reject it, attack it, and just be bad, alright? But fortunately, there's a little bit of types, and there is even ONE type - Type O Type O negatice blood can be used in a transfusion It's the only blood type that can do this. And hereeee comes the metaphor - Stevie Wonder's It's the universal GROOVE donor. You can put it with just about anything, and Now, let's listen to this groove and see what groove transfusions after that. The kick drum is mostly 4 on the floor, so here and there, and the snare is mostly just There are a few fills but this is the main Very straightforward, very on the beat. But then there's the hi hat. And this is where the magic is. This is where the feel is. The hi hat is this swung 16th note pattern For that reason, it feels very HUMAN. On top of that, this song wasn't recorded whole thing has the freedom to sway this way feels human, feels, organic, feels like an I've talked about this idea of a "groove not playing with click, you gotta bring your And if you're human, you're probably not The analogy here is plotting points on a hand Depending on the player, the tempo, and a a little different. But the grid that Stevie is laying down on No click, just pure Stevie laying it down hat acting as the grid that the other two The groove is COURSING THROUGH HIS VEINS, There are other elements to the song, but feels SO good. That hi hat especially. Even before the rest of the song kicks in, song. It's one of those rare, wholly unique grooves, Stevie's unique grid that he's making this song. Remember how I said this song was the universal If you're type A positive, you can receive O negative, because that's the universal So even if that's not what's originally It'll make you feel good. I mean, presumably, if you're in need of bad, this metaphor is getting icky. Let's just keep moving. This song was released in the early 70s, so DECADE SINCE. Doctor - It's time for a groove transfusion. EVEN with, it works. It feels good. Some of those grooves are... let's say type That's completely different than Superstition. But because it's the UNIVERSAL GROOVE DONOR I mixed these drums with a bunch of different of the track features key bass, Stevie's And then there's one other thing heard on Multiple layers of Clavinet. The Clavinet is a specific type of keyboard It's basically an electrical Clavichord Now, back up. A ClaviCHORD is an old instrument, used through of European music, which if that doesn't the 1400s through the 1800s. This was a quieter, compact instrument, largely loud on its own. You might be thinking, "oh, so you'd practice Piano" BUT the piano hadn't even been That doesn't even come along until the 1700s. So while you might practice on the clavichord, instrument like the harpsichord. The mechanism that hits the string in a clavichord more harsh sounding, and it doesn't have feel "louder" is to just play more notes. Why are we talking about Harpsichords? Stay with me. There's an insane mashup coming. I can't promise that it's good, but I before. Just one more step to get there. This era of music - European, pre-piano, harpsichord - but none bigger than Johann Sebastian Bach, If you've played in an orchestra, you've If you've formally studied the cello, you've And if you've studied piano, you're probably Clavier just means keyboard, which could refer times, the piano. This is a great practice tool because it has key. Need to get some keyboard reps in? Open up the well tempered clavier. So Bach wrote a great practice tool for the This gets picked up by pianists and has been The clavichord is modernized in the 60s as and Hohner thinks it's gonna be just a good play Bach PROPERLY. But then Stevie gets his hands on it and does feel, and incredible groove grid into this result is... the 12th greatest song of all Okay, but Stevie is playing a Clavinet - the You couldn't take a piece from Bach's in Eb minor (same key as Superstition) and You'd have to be MAD to take that Bach piece, harpsichord, and mix that with Stevie Wonder! If the first series of mashups were a groove with type B (B for Bach) - and while NO ONE Mostly? Now, there is just one catch with the Type While it can DONATE to any other blood type Negative blood - and I think the same can We put this drum groove on Lionel Richie, On Superstition itself, Stevie is putting old instrument Bach loved, and we even put But if we were going to mashup Superstition... keep it recognizable as "Superstition" groove - that groove ALSO has to be Type O It's gotta be from someone else who understands that make a groove feel good. Someone equally soulful, EQUALLY funky. Someone with impeccable taste. Someone like... The 1970 James Brown song "You Done It" the Love Side" by Hank Ballard from the 2" from 1988. James Brown understands groove, he understands So much so that when hip hop producers in drum breaks to sample and loop, he served platter. But that's a whole other story for a whole Actually, that's all in this video right