Hi, I'm Aleksandra and today we're going to make these beauties! These wonderful soft rolls with vanilla cream. Don't miss this recipe and write it down in your notebooks. You wont regret. Before we go, I want to ask you that if you like this type of video and if you like my work, please support me by subscribing to my channel and sharing this video with your friends. Prepare 600 g of soft wheat flour and make a small indentation in the flour. Put there 3 spoons of sugar, 320 ml of warm milk and crumble half a cube of fresh yeast or 20 g. Crush the yeast a little so that it melts in this milk. When you have mixed everything well, leave the kvass to rise for about 15 minutes. When the kvass has risen, add two tablespoons of thick yogurt. Prepare two egg yolks and beat them slightly. Add 100 g of butter. Your butter should be at room temperature. Add another 4 tablespoons of sugar, a pinch of salt, vanilla powder, vanilla flavoring or vanilla sugar. And the peel of one lemon. Stir this gently. Start kneading the dough. You need to stir the dough just enough to combine the flour and wet ingredients. At this point the dough will be very soft. DO NOT BE AFRAID, DO NOT ADD MORE FLOUR, TRUST ME, YOU WILL SEE LATER THAT IT IS NOT NECESSARY. Leave at room temperature for 20 minutes to develop the gluten. After 20 minutes, we can mix the dough. See how the dough is now. When we knead it, it will be nice and smooth. The dough will still be soft because the butter has melted due to the heat of the milk. Knead the dough for about 3 minutes until you get a fine and stable mass. DO NOT BE AFRAID THAT THE DOUGH IS NOW SOFT. Knead it like this, as if you were pounding it a little. Look how soft this dough is now. But you can still control it. You still decide on its shape. See how soft it is. Such a soft dough will give you fine pastries. Now put this in a clean bowl, cover and let it rise at room temperature for about 45 minutes. My dears, look at this beauty. Sprinkle the work surface with flour, but only lightly. Sprinkle the dough over the flour. Look how soft it is. Divide the dough into 6 equal parts. Shape into small balls. Take one part of the dough and stretch it into a circle as much as possible. That's why you shape the dough into balls, so that they hold the shape of a circle later. Prepare 100 g of butter and spread one part over the stretched dough. The butter should not be melted but at room temperature to make it easy to spread. And next to here, roll out another part of the dough and place it over this one. In this way, we will make fake layers, like fake croissants. But you will see how nice it will be. Spread butter over this dough as well and then transfer it over this dough. Continue like this until you are done with the dough and do not spread the back part of the dough. Leave the last part blank. Take a tray, sprinkle it with flour, and transfer the dough over the tray. Now cover this and refrigerate for 20 minutes. After about 20 minutes to half an hour, we can roll out the dough. Stretch gently so as not to destroy the layers of butter that have cooled. Turn to the other side. And always keep the circle shape if possible. My dears it should look something like this. Make a cut across the middle. I want to make 16 rolls from this, so I will divide it into 4 and each part again into 4 parts. Roll the rolls like this. Cover the rolls and let them rise at room temperature for about 45 minutes. My dears, look at these beauties. Sometimes you ask me how I laugh so much in the videos, but look, isn't this a miracle? Look how nice it looks! I like to cook everything, but I don't think I admire anything as much as dough. Brush this lightly with melted butter and bake at 180degC for 15 to 20 minutes, depending on the power of the oven. My dears, look at this beauty! Look what I have here - PASTRY CREAM! And I will fill these rolls with that cream. Sprinkle the rolls with powdered sugar. Look at these beauties! My dears, what do you say! Look at this! Look how soft they are. And this top crust... This top crust is a little crunchy but the rest is very soft. I can't even touch it. Make one hole. Put the vanilla cream there. This is the real and rich confectionary cream with egg yolks and not with pudding. You can find the recipe for it on my channel. Mmmm I can't... the program is terminating! How good is this! My dears, look at this beauty. My dears, if you like this video, leave me a like or a comment , and for other recipes visit my channel on YouTube. And finally, of course, Buon Appetito!