I'm going to try and win the FA Cup using a team I build in draft There's just one rule... I cannot use any player from England's top leagues I think the best defence is a strong attack which is why we need a three-back formation and we only have one option the 3-4-2-1 but that's okay we need the most amount of attackers because I also want to set the record for the most goals in the FA Cup's history hopefully we get some good players especially for our captain Ronaldinho Trezeguet OHH! now it's really up to me but I want to keep this somewhat realistic which is why we're going to go with Benzema but he won't have to switch clubs because we will be attempting hopefully I said that right I would love to get Bellingham in this squad and we have some pretty good options we have no Premier League or so we can take whoever we want and I think there's an obvious choice here my boy Pedri always showing up in these drafts that is called loyalty, welcome in Pedri first defender who can we get... Nesta - ohhhh Maldini, they're should we take one? maybe and technically Maldini never played in England oh I - I love this I love making my own rules I hope we can continue getting myself that if we don't win the FA Cup I will eat one of these spicy jelly and if you do the math, that's eight jelly I can't believe I'm scared of jelly beans goalkeeper... show me what you got Alisson ,oh that would have been great but he plays on Liverpool which is from the we're going to Ter Stegan this might be my dream team already we could get Messi into this team... but we may have to wait we got some pretty bad options here I guess we'll just take Janssen I don't think let's see the other centre-forward please show Messi please show Messi oh oh oh wow we can't take another icon, we which is why we are going to take Rafa, 95 pace love to see it get in there please show me Bellingham, please show we do have another Real Madrid now technically this is the men's FA Cup Majri, Majri whatever your who will play beside Maldini... Marquinhos, Nesta shows up again, we got I think we're going to take get in there you know what, if we don't win the FA it seems like luck is on our side, we and you know how much I hate gold cards left mid - please don't, please don't jinx it oh look at these options we can't take Ginola, he did play in the English and I can't take Mead either because so I guess Rapinoe is the option we got to take and I really don't so Rapinoe welcome in we got to find a reserve replacement for her what do we got... Cafu, Mateo if chemistry mattered in this challenge but instead I think we're going to take Mateo 87 shooting 90 pace, get in there who else can we get in our reserves... Alvarez... ah the time has come, picks 1 three and four are not available, get in there right mid - show me a good right mid not bad but it's I feel like I swear I had an exact same but this time we can't take I think Zhegrova is the best choice here highest rated, 90 pace get in there but I think Mateo is going to go in there instead what type of subs are we looking at... wow who do we take? we can't take Raul I'm getting I think I'm just going to take Dumfies, he's absolute baller, get in there maybe Cristiano Ronaldo will pop up? he doesn't, but we do have except the first two we cannot take can they play right mid? they can I think we're going to have to please Messi please Puskas, Frankowski, what a beautiful looking card but again, another freaking wing - back now now we have way too many right-wing players and because Di Maria can play centre - forward we're going to throw him up there beside Benzema you know what this team is looking pretty good I hope we can still get another and I think we're going to win the FA Cup and right when I said that, but we can take Armstrong - we can't never mind he plays in the second league so I guess Alex Moreno isn't available so Malcolm, welcome in please please... no... more more gold cards where are the superstars? oh no the luck has completely turned upside down I have to be very strategic with these picks I guess Coman would be a good maybe we got to just finish the starting 11 please just don't be a gold card.. at least we have Kimpembe that is a broken card get into the team okay the starting 11 is complete, and we but I don't don't think we're prove me Pele, of course we have Pele wait wait wait wait wait I just and it says because we didn't get Ronaldo oh wow, that is perfect sorry Rafa, you have been replaced imagine we get Messi in this next one thank goodness okay who do we still need Bacha would be a good one we're going to take Gosens wow what a team this is, we okay wait two more picks Acuna who do we take? all that's left to upgrade is our centre - back a gold Kimpembe are you serious, you think no which is why Bisseck is joining this team we are one pick away from completing Kepa the man with the longest neck now I've added all the players but because they're not in England, it's I've decided to put them in and try to win the FA Cup that way now it's not just eight jelly but these first few matches shouldn't we only won 1-0? they are a star team and we only won by a goal? what about round two please please okay there we go, still only by a goal round three we're playing 4-1 okay finally a bigger score line please don't lose in round four... okay big win 3-0 Watford in round five - we need to beat Watford come on okay here we go, we're getting closer to the final it may actually come home well to Saudi Arabia I guess watch us play Man U of course, I called it, perfect this is technically the quarterfinals, YES! we beat them, 3-2 okay we're off to the semi-finals, who watch it be Liverpool we actually play Fulham - okay we may but first - let's beat Fulham there it is 2-0 what a dominant win! and will it be Liverpool... it is Liverpool vs. Al Iitihad either I click this button and we win the FA Cup or I have to eat 12 super what's it going to be... NOOOOO he actually lost and it was in extra time! oh Salah what have you done?! 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 7 8 9 10 11 12 OHHHHHH I hope you guys enjoyed this video and if you did, make sure (eughh) make sure to SUBSCRIBE and - and watch this video right here oh this was not a good idea