In today's chess video, we'll look at we start with e4, e5, knight f3, knight c6 This is the Italian game, probably the most After this, we play bishop c5 &amp; now white &amp; attack the center. Or he can simply castle and safeguard his Another popular move is d3, defending the And this is what we want him to play. Because after that, we have this tricky little It's called the Lucchini gambit. From here, white plays knight g5 preparing But we just push this pawn - cutting off He plays knight f7, as expected, &amp; starts and the rook. But hold on, we have this sneaky little queen Now if he's not careful &amp; takes the rook, queen f2 is simply game over. Therefore, he cannot take the rook. So, if he wants to prevent this checkmate, response. But after knight f6, our rook is now free We advance further, and look at this - in around the king. In fact, Queen h2 is threatening a checkmate. So, the best way to defend is to go for h3. But then we have this nasty knight, taking This queen is under attack so, if he takes, If he goes to the corner, we push this pawn He can capture in two ways, but none of them His queen is helpless, it cannot take because And if he takes with the pawn, then we have also, activates our bishop. As you can see, we are just crushing it with way he can save this game. Going back, let's look at another interesting So, rook takes, queen takes. And now instead of moving to the corner, what Well, then again, we have d5. Bishop takes &amp; now comes the absolutely mindblowing Look, the queen is under attack &amp; unfortunately, still have this queen g1 checkmate. And if you are thinking of taking with the another crushing checkmate! Okay, let's go back again. Now in this position, you might think - instead moves his queen? Well, then just look at this beautiful line! Knight h3 double check, king h1 or h2, doesn't Then again, knight f2 double check. King g1 is forced. And finally, queen h1 is an absolutely stunning On that note, my absolutely stunning audience, below! Alright, let's go back to this position! We have this checkmate threat &amp; I just showed castling, but what if he plays g3? Well, we have some traps here as well. First, let's save our queen. Now white is out of danger, so he'll take And again, we have the same idea - first attack the queen. If he blocks, we'll just ignore this threat Bishop sacrifice &amp; we simply push g2. This pawn is now unstoppable &amp; the rook cannot Even if it moves here, we simply take it with And if the king moves out of the way &amp; tries so he won't survive long. Okay, now in this position, instead of blocking you can bring in your knight into action &amp; we're We have this royal fork lined up, queen g2 &amp; of course, both these bishops can jump in So basically, it's all over for white. Guys, I have some more tricks to show you ideas for white as well. But before moving on, I would like to thank Guys, we use the internet for almost everything online. So, it's very important to protect our personal a VPN service like Atlas VPN. This prevents internet trackers from spying And it also blocks ads &amp; protects you from Currently, Atlas VPN is offering a massive link in the description. What I found really amazing is this data breach my information has been leaked, so I can take With more than 6 million users worldwide, Mac &amp; Windows, and you can use it on unlimited Even if you're travelling, you can easily in the world. Right now, Atlas VPN is offering a huge discount just $1.83 a month with a 30-day money-back So guys, just click the link in the description Okay, let's first recap what we've learnt So, after the Italian opening, we play bishop We've seen 7 match-winning traps where white The main ideas you need to keep in mind are this knight out, play d5, activate this light-square And if required, bring in this knight as well. Now these traps can be used when he gets his What if after f4, he gives a check with the Well, then we'll play king f8. This knight is still in danger - he can't And if he decides to exchange, you won't knight &amp; after the bishop runs away, you just The engine gives almost a 4 point advantage Anyway, in this position, a more logical response something like queen h5 or even h4. If queen h5, then you can push him back this And if he defends with h4, you attack the And after the dust settles, you end up with Of course, you cannot castle, but you are options. The engine gives black a 2.5 point advantage. Alright, let's go back. Now here some of you might be wondering what accepts this gambit? In that case, you'll first grab the center as well. Anyway, now this bishop is under attack, so it pins our knight. And therefore, he threatens to take this pawn. But you have a clever idea here as well. Instead of saving this pawn, you'll look Therefore, knight e7, white captures &amp; then Now after castling, we've unpinned our knight Most likely, he'll take with the knight He needs to save his bishop so he goes back. And now again, you have a brilliant tactical Can you find it? Look, we've already castled &amp; all our pieces On the other hand, white has zero development. So, what do we do? Well, we'll sac our bishop and expose the White has to take and finally we pick up this From here, the main idea is to get your queen to target the vulnerable king. Now even though black is down in material, the engine gives black a massive 4.5 point After looking at all these deadly traps, you to even play this as white? Well, let's start from the beginning. E4, e5, knight f3, knight c6, and bishop c4. Oh, by the way, there are different move orders For example, here instead of bishop c5, you This is the Rousseau Gambit. Now if he takes the pawn, you have e4 &amp; this Therefore, instead of taking the pawn, more And as you can see, we reach the very same Now as white, when you see this opening - it That's why you try to launch an early attack But I feel the best approach for white is Instead of reacting to black's unusual moves, normally. And if white is playing that way, you should Just simply activate all your minor pieces. Now as black, here comes a point, where you you are not able to. That's when you can play knight a5. This bishop has no squares left. And even if he tries to exchange this knight, will fall. According to stockfish, this is dead equal So even if white plays this perfectly, you black. Alright, so its puzzle time. In this position, it is white's turn, and for white. Do share your answers in the comments section Guys, don't forget to like and subscribe,