How can one engage audiences that seem to be living How do we reach people who seem smitten, besotted with the propaganda That's the sort of happy stuff that I research at university, and that has become very, in the last couple of years. I was born in Ukraine, and since the full-scale invasion began, I've been going to Ukraine a lot to work with an NGO to document war crimes and to tell the truth about them to an often skeptical world. I'm afraid there's a lot I was in the town of Bucha when it was liberated from Russian forces, entered the village to see being placed in a mass grave. And these people were killed, not because, like, you know, they were just shot for fun by Russian soldiers just to prove There was no military sense And I remember talking as we watched these dead bodies and he was in shock. He'd liberated the village, but he was also in shock because he'd actually spent He'd actually studied He had lots of former students that he'd studied with there, and ever since the war had begun, &quot;Please do something And they just throw the phones down. And so many Ukrainians were calling well, now-former friends and saying, &quot;Please do something to stop this war. At least stop your sons And at the other end, they'd hear people answering in the cliches saying, &quot;You're making it up,&quot; &quot;You've made some sort of mistake,&quot; or saying, &quot;You know, probably your side or saying &quot;It's all fake, you're making it all up.&quot; And on Russian TV at the time, you'd hear these increasingly propaganda pieces I'll give you one example. After the atrocities of Bucha mainstream Russian TV, 7pm -- this is not some sort of kooky mainstream Russian TV was claiming that the British secret services The whole thing was staged. And you know why and how Because the place was called Bucha, which in English sounds like butcher, and only the English, would concoct an atrocity in a place and that was their proof. And people would, you know, And look, Russia is an extreme, a horrific example of people But I've been living and I see quite a lot of it here, maybe more, people that the last election was rigged, despite sort of court cases So what can we do about it? You know, I'm in a community of academics, of journalists who've been trying many things We've tried fact-checking, but we've also found that, you know, when facts challenge people's identity, We've tried worthy journalism. You know, these great about how important it is I've written many columns But I know that I'm preaching I know that I'm within my own, you know, How do we get beyond that? How can we reach the people who are somehow under the sway And in a kind of despair, Might there be something in history that gives us a clue And that's how I discovered a very strange and somewhat forgotten story about a covert British operation Perhaps the most, or one of the most dehumanizing propagandas ever, And it was led by this man. His name was Sefton Delmer. Largely forgotten person, Sefton Delmer kind of shared a lot He felt that, you know, at the start liberal media, in his case, or various kind of like, exiled who were still trying to communicate trying to persuade them not to follow he felt that they were doing it all wrong. They were lecturing people, a bit like we do today, how we must stop fascism. He felt all of that, just like a lot of media today, preaching to the converted. He wanted to do something different, He'd grown up in Germany, he was British, but he grew up in Germany. He'd then been a journalist and he got very close to the Nazi elites And he got to see their propaganda And essentially, he could see that it was based which are really very common The first of these was What do we mean by that? Look, we often wonder, why do people follow leaders who are wildly narcissistic, You know, when people they thought he was, And yet this freak had a huge following. And Delmar worked out because they allow you, they allow their followers cruel people. That at some level, many of them, and maybe many of us, They were normalizing Their very attractiveness Secondly, he could see how people through these leaders, you know. These leaders could be their retribution. Yes, you are giving up but you could feel powerful And thirdly, this propaganda created a sense of community. Germany in the 1920s, a little bit, a little bit was a place where the old economic order where the old social norms were in chaos, where identities were in flux, even gender norms were being questioned. And in this time of exciting for others, very disturbing change, the Nazis said, &quot;We know who you are. You're true Germans, You're better Germans You're the true people the Nazi &quot;Volk,&quot; the Nazi people. We know who we are, and we're together." So Delmer realized that in order to subvert the connection between Nazi propaganda and its followers, you had to really climb into The place where fact-checking And so, based at Woburn Abbey, a rather fabulous British he gathered around himself psychiatrists, a lot of exiled cabaret artists He gathered them together and created this kind of Dozens of radio stations and the rest of occupied Europe, newspapers, leaflets, this whole kind of factory Now we don't have, sadly, However, we do have the transcripts. And when I realized I went, "Delicious." And I started going through them. I actually spent a lot of COVID And they've been declassified from the British And as I went through these hundreds I realized there was kind They were experimenting like crazy. But there is, three, because it's always three There's three basic principles that I think Delmar kind of landed on through experimentation. Number one, break the monopoly on strong emotions. That's the root of their power. So Delmar's media, his radio stations, but they were all a lot unlike the BBC or the Washington Post. They were full of vitriol, anger, They were tapping into all the resentments that Germans were starting They were full of these about families that people and then blaming the Nazis for not having They talk about how, sort of the Nazi elite how they were living, while normal German soldiers Here's just a little sort of &quot;The SS wear the German uniform, but they drag the German name in the mud. They should send them There, everything else There, they would get an idea for his good name while the SS clique It was full of expletives as well. There were all these scenes -- This is actually the most sort of like, un-X-rated bit which relates kind of like Like &quot;SS man Thienemann who is personally in charge twigs, thin and thick leather straps with which Thienemann her fat and large buttocks.&quot; And I had to cut it there So, you know, there's a reason to this. He wants to disrupt the emotional bond He wants to cover the Nazis in what he calls as thick as the Nazis But his aim, once he's disrupted that, once he's sort of taken is to create a space He gave people advice so that they could be sent So it wasn't just any facts. It's facts that gave people made them less dependent on their leaders. And thirdly, he fostered alternative communities. If the Nazis gave you a sense of identity, a common sense of being part Delmar's shows stressed as these alternative bonds There's a very important Basically, most of the shows he created They would say, "We Germans." They would be hosted by soldiers But the audience was meant that these were the British dressed up as Germans. Now why did Delmer do that? Firstly, he made it safe for people If the Gestapo came along, you could say, &quot;Well, I had no idea this was subversive. I thought this was German.&quot; It was psychologically safer. It was more comfortable "Our soldiers, our boys" than "You Germans, you enemy." But even more so, He was saying, &quot;Look we're the English And we understand you, your gripes, your anger, what matters to you, better than the Nazis. And if we, your enemies, but in a real war, can understand you do you really need them? Are they really looking out for you when they say they're going or are they just thinking 40 percent of German soldiers in these little sort of said they listened to this content. So how can we bring Whether we're thinking whether we're thinking caught up in what some academics If we take Delmer's principles, they are much easier to activate today. We know far more from things like, We know far more about what what things they react to Delmar was just kind of shooting stuff -- well, literally shooting We know that so much more When it comes to finding the facts Delmar had to do it through partisans by opening up the letters Today, even in a country like Russia, we have non-stop leaks of mid-level officials. We can use satellite imagery has a road been fixed in a town We have so much more data than Delmer had, but do we know how to use it to give people the facts And when it comes there are so many digital tools that can show how a media I mean, there's a great project which algorithmically collects in a town or in a topic and then gets journalists that they're worried about. And there are so many So if we put these things together, the data that tells us the facts the online use of communities, we can do something much more powerful So ... Look, I know it's easy to despair. It's easy to despair when you hear It's easy to despair when we hear vast swathes living in an alternative reality. But before we give up, before we surrender, I think we can at least take fuse them with modern technology, and really, really try to reach them. Thank you. (Applause)