- Big Bang advocates are scrambling to make sense of what the - Yes, they are, because what they're finding from what was expected to be seen at such distant edges of the universe. - Can you tell us about and why they weren't expecting them? - Absolutely. When you look at such things it's simply God declaring his glory to us. He's showing us that he's an almighty, eternal creator God. And when we look at that is the conclusion we draw. - The James Webb Space Telescope has revealed massive, on the outer edges of our universe. The problem is they're Mark, you've worked in for over 30 years, and you speak internationally about this question of origins. Why shouldn't those discoveries be there? - Well, they shouldn't be there because they weren't expected to be there. They don't comply with the predictions of the standard model of the Big Bang. And that model is the in our secular society that basically attempts to explain the existence of the universe without God, without a creator. - But the model has turned - Can you tell us a bit more about what this model, Sure. The idea is that infinitely hot point, a singularity that occurred It rapidly expanded, and as it did so, elements like hydrogen and helium formed. They finally condensed which consumed all and some exploded and And then we ended up with swirling clouds of dust with planets orbiting Then the Big Bang theory all of that energy will dissipate, and the universe will experience what we could call a heat death where everything becomes That's billions of years So in a nutshell, that's the kind of secular So the Big Bang attempts to try and explain how The problem is that actually involves invoking a number of miracles. And we had another video in this series called Five Atheist Miracles that I encourage our that explains to some of those. - So did the universe - Well, the Big Bang But herein lies an interesting because if you ask them, did the universe have a then they actually violate the which says that matter can be So to go from nothing requires the creation and this singularity as it was called. So you have no mechanism That in fact is the first that they have to believe. If when asked that question, did the universe have a beginning, the answer is, well, no, as some believe, well, then you violate the which says that in every the level of disorder or another way of saying it is that the energy available And that's the forward-looking of the Big Bang. It finally fades away into a heat death. So the secularist has a dilemma. If the universe had a beginning, If it did not have a beginning, - He sounds caught. - Well, yes, it's between You're quite right. The only way you can resolve is by having a supernatural, who brings the space, time, separate from himself. And then and only then do you for how the universe which is what the first verse &quot;In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.&quot; - Okay, so could God have - Well, I don't think so because the Big Bang with what God tells us that those first six days of creative activity where he was speaking things into being, which did not previously exist. Now people might say, hey, hang on, that's a miracle. Yes, it's true, it is a miracle, but the Christian has a miracle worker and that is our creator, God. And so that's perfectly logical. To have a miracle well, that's magic. So the Big Bang has, for instance, that light came before the Earth, but in the Genesis account, it says God created the Earth, and then he said, &quot;Let there be light.&quot; And there was light. - Okay. So it's in conflict with. - The sequence is completely out. It also says that, the Bible says that God created on the fourth day of the creation week, which of course was after But in the Big Bang, it's very much the other way around. The Earth doesn't appear after that initial singularity. So I don't think there's any way one can reasonably with what the Bible plainly teaches us. - Because you're compromising - Yes. - That's right. And importantly, when you you introduce millions of whatever's happening before Adam and Eve are even created. And the Bible says they came Now God is powerful and purposeful, and when he speaks, his word goes out and accomplishes So his purpose in creating the universe was to make a home for man who has been made in his So it makes no sense at all to have this universe sort for billions of years before to creating mankind in his image. So it actually cuts across any sense of God being purposeful. So if the Big Bang is true, But if the Bible is true, - So is there any observational - Well, the Big Bang came about through astronomers making observations, but with a perspective of that they were looking for which excluded God. So back in the early 1900s, I think it was 1916 or thereabouts, Vesto Slipher discovered that galaxies had their spectra of the spectrum. Now, that doesn't mean they were red, it just means that the spectra was slightly shifted that way. Now he interpreted that as like Doppler shift. In 1929, Edwin Hubble observed that the further away galaxies were, the more they were redshifted. So he interpreted that as meaning they were receding So you get this picture Now, interestingly, Hubble because in every direction that he looked, he saw the same phenomenon, which implied that the Earth was somehow other in a at or near the center. And he actually said, &quot;This is an unwelcome supposition and must be opposed at all costs&quot;, which is, I guess, revealing Because of course, if then that suggests that maybe and we're in a special place. And if there's a Creator, well, maybe we might be called He simply didn't like what he was finding. And so he pushed back on that and he said, I believe that the no matter where you on a large enough scale. Or another way of saying it and everyone must see the universe alike. Now, this has a name now, it's called the cosmological principle. But I think the simplest way to sum it up is to say they believe - Okay. Does the Big Bang correctly explain then some of the observations that we make, the things we see in the universe today? - Well, we're told that it does, but there are many, many things, in fact where the Big Bang fails to And so what happens is because there's a philosophical commitment to a naturalistic explanation, various sort of rescue to try and patch up the bits where the Big Bang And we'll talk about some But I don't think that it what we observe at all. In fact, most recently, as you opened, the findings of the James were a complete shock to It was not what they - Can you tell us about and why they weren't expecting them? - Absolutely. So the James Webb Space Telescope is... it's a $10 billion telescope, brilliant engineering, I might add. It's designed to work more in the infrared which enables it to see beyond the visible part of and to see galaxies that that they would be very, very remote. In fact, in the Big Bang model, that would represent galaxies of the history of the universe. And it's a very clever design. It actually orbits the sun, not the earth, and in the same time that And it sits at a place called and it's a gravitationally It actually orbits that location so that the Earth is always So it doesn't ever get blinded And it points these very at the remotest parts of the universe. So very early in the Big Bang, gravity would not have had or should not have had enough time to draw all of this material that formed from the initial energy and that singularity that commenced it into large, highly structured So they expected to find indistinct, fairly small, not high structure with and all this sort of thing. But to their astonishment, they found massive, highly And even fairly recently reported that is 10 times the at the center of our Milky Way galaxy. - Can you explain what 'cause I've heard that Do they even exist? What are they? - Well, a black hole is within this very small region that the gravitational field that not even light can escape it. So surrounding every black hole is what's called an event horizon. And anything that passes disappears into the black Now, various complicated physics and so they can be detected. Very real, quite amazing phenomena, but they involve the accretion So you can't have a at the outer edges of the universe where there hasn't been enough time for gravity to aggregate Consequently, it flies of the Big Bang model. You also haven't got enough time for those highly structured So it really was quite sensational. One astronomer reported that you lay awake at night wondering if all it had been doing for - Wow. Maybe it is. But the point is, you see, that they begin with a and that is that there's no God and they try to use naturalistic processes to explain the universe and it really doesn't work well. - Yeah, sounds like with each discovery that the James Webb is making, there's not enough time or the way that it is. - Yes, that's right. - In light of these findings, are secular astronomers abandoning this idea of the Big Bang? - Yes and no. The Big Bang is a naturalistic model and it's got a lot of investment in it. People have got their names attached to various parts of the They have professorships and so it's pretty hard to let go of that. But there are other secular who don't subscribe to the Big Bang because they see the flaws in it and they see how it doesn't the observations that are being made. So there are other models around. One that was in vogue back in the, around the middle of last century was called a steady-state theory. And that kind of went out of fashion when the Big Bang rose to of the cosmic microwave And we'll talk a bit about But interestingly, the steady-state is making partly because of the And what people need, you see, is a lot more time for So they're thinking, well, maybe our idea of is just too short, because now we're seeing with mature galaxies. Perhaps it's been around a lot longer. Now, this happens to play havoc with other parts of the model, so it's highly contentious. So there are various varieties of it, and it really has opened in cosmological circles now. - Can you give us some that this theory's failing - Well, yes, apart from there are a lot of issues that the Big Bang simply doesn't answer. And one of them is called And that's just a technical term, but what it means is basically this, in that initial Big Bang, it was a highly dense point which then started to cool And as it expanded, some of that energy was initially in the form of hydrogen Now, when energy converts into matter, in every experiment we and according to theory, you should produce equal amounts Now, antimatter is where you an electron instead of becomes positively charged, and protons have negative charges. So there's a mirror image, - Is that how you'd explain antimatter? 'cause I was gonna say, what's antimatter? - That's right. So it's like a mirror image, okay? - Okay. But if matter and antimatter they instantly annihilate with So if this energy had where's all the antimatter? Because all we observe in And so that's a major problem. As I said, it's called And baryon are the component And there is no satisfactory explanation for that particular issue. That's just one of the problems that the Big Bang fails - Because we should be the antimatter. - We should. If the Big Bang model is true, - Okay. - then we should see of matter and antimatter. - Okay. Another one? - Well, another one is that matter, not antimatter, started to condense into stars, then the initial stars should hydrogen, helium predominantly. And they should have been the majority, and then over time, they would burn all their fuel because when they get very, very large, nuclear fusion starts to take place, this ignites the star, it radiates heat and light and so on. And then when it burns out, some of them will collapse And it's believed that by which heavier elements are produced. Now, of course, in our world, we have lots of heavy elements, things like carbon, oxygen, iron, and so on, way more than just And the problem is that which are called population 3 stars, should predominate in the After all, they were supposed to be But there have been no So the observations don't stack up with a very clear prediction So it's failed again. So the problem of the is one of yet another of for the Big Bang. And the third problem is One of the things that swung was the discovery of what's called the cosmic And it was predicted and by some scientists back in And essentially what it And it was believed to be the afterglow of that initial Big Bang. - Yes. - And it was expected that it would have very hot and that the hot regions, for instance, would be like the fingerprints of what would subsequently When it was observed, it very little variation in the temperature. 'cause any body that radiates will radiate accordance So hotter bodies will radiate So by observing the amount we can make a measure of the temperature. And it was found that the of the background radiation like flat to one part Now, to think about that, that's like trying to for a hundred meters and not veering by more than 1 millimeter. - Okay. - Now that's very uniform, right? And that was extraordinary. That was not a prediction of the Big Bang, that came as a shock. And so the problem is this, you've got these hot in that initial background radiation. How did the hot regions exchange their heat with the cold regions to make it all so flat and uniform? Because there hasn't been enough time for that radiation to get to the other side. And that's what's called - And have they tried to answer it? - Oh, of course. And there was a solution by a guy called Alan Guth, who supposed that there was that occurred in after the initial expansion lasted for an unthinkably short period, and during which the expanded massively by many, Now, his model has it that all of those temperature variations. But the problem is there's that would start such a process, no mechanism for it to end, that's called the graceful exit problem. And during this inflationary period, you have special physics happening. So if you like matter repels matter and weird stuff happens, stuff which is not - Sounds like another miracle. - Well, yes, it's pretty close to that. So if you like, it's a... what you could call a just so story. Now, the thing with developing is that they may sound plausible, but plausibility doesn't equate to truth. So just because a scientist can tell a vaguely plausible story doesn't mean that the problem In fact, I would argue that is actually not plausible at all. It's quite contrary to any - Mm-hmm. So scientifically it sounds like there are a lot of quote, that falsify the Big Bang. - Well, yes. And these things are not good science in the sense that the core issue is really not being confronted. Once again, it's because of to the idea that we in natural terms. And that sounds reasonable if you're involved in the sciences. But if you think about it, and if you limit yourself to only naturalistic you are excluding right at the outset and arbitrarily any consideration So if you exclude the that's the same as saying there is no God, which means that really, it's just signing up to atheism. So the secular scientist has a commitment to an expresses it in the way he interprets the evidence that he observes. And that fundamentally is what Its root, if you like, its origin. - Yep. Does the belief then in this supernatural in your opinion, does that line up with what How do they make sense together? - Well, I think if we start which shows us that God is our Creator, that he spoke the universe into being in just six ordinary length days, and that he created the sun, but after he created the Earth, I think that whole unfolding helps us to understand the observations much more effectively than the secular models. Because when you look at such things as what James Webb is finding, these incredibly detailed at the outer edges of the cosmos, it's simply God declaring his glory to us. And one of the Psalms, Psalm 19 it is, begins by saying, &quot;The heavens declare the glory of God.&quot; And I believe indeed they So in a sense, it's a bit like God is He's showing us that he's an almighty, eternal Creator God. And when we look at that is the conclusion we draw. So I think our response to I suppose, arrogance and saying, well, God, we figured out and you did it with this Big Bang, rather we should come humbly before him in the light of the and acknowledge that he's - So if someone turned oh, well that sounds like because you're just kind and so that makes sense of what would you say? - Well, I don't think it's a cop out. I think it's acknowledging Because you see, all the they point towards the Now, science doesn't prove the Bible. In fact, you can't do that because if you did, it would be like elevating And that makes science the benchmark, it makes it the arbiter of truth. But it's the other way around, you see. You start with God's eyewitness testimony of what he actually did at the beginning, and we use that as historical record as the means by which we in the world around us. So rather than a cop out, it's actually acknowledging the reality that the best description of the universe that we see around us and that we can measure and observe with brilliant instruments is that there's a Creator God out there. - Did creationists try to predict anything about - Yes, indeed, we did. And on our website at creation.com, there is a paper that the day after James Webb was And in it, I'll just read the passage, we said, &quot;The JWST&quot;, that's the James Webb Space Telescope, &quot;observations will further contradict and complicate evolutionary theories on the origin of the universe.&quot; And what we said would happen They've now got massive problems to how to explain these so close to the commencement Another leading astronomer, creationist astronomer, &quot;I expect to see fully formed,&quot; that means fully designed, &quot;galaxies at unprecedented distances.&quot; And that's exactly what was found. - Wow. - And he published that well in advance of the launch James Webb. He went on to say, &quot;I don't expect to see evidence of genuine Population 3 stars, those with no heavy elements at all. Since I reject the Big Bang as the cause of the I have no reason to believe that the universe was not created with some of the heavy So his prediction has Once again, no population 3 stars, heavy elements found right at So starting with the Bible, starting with God's account of what he did to create the universe, places the creationist in a far more powerful position when it comes to trying to predict what we will see in the universe. And I think the work of James Webb has just brought that to the So just remember I quoted and let me read it a The first four verses say this, &quot;The heavens declare the glory of God,&quot; and how true is that? &quot;The skies proclaim his handiwork.&quot; I don't know if you have on a moonless cloudless night Now, you couldn't do it in a city. You have to do this out in the country where there's not much light pollution. But the site is absolutely breathtaking. Truly, the skies do And it goes on and says, &quot;Day after day, they pour forth speech. Night after night, they I think, wait a minute, - (hums) Speech? Knowledge? - Right. But it goes on and says, &quot;They have no speech, there are no words. No sound is heard from them. Their voice goes out to all the earth, their words unto the ends of the world.&quot; So this is, if you like, silent speech. What the heavens are telling us clearly is that God is the Creator, that he's all-powerful, he's all-knowing, he's declaring his glory and it is absolutely unmistakable. So King David, when he wrote those words got it exactly right. - Thank you so much, Mark, for sharing that with us today. It's fascinating and so encouraging to see how the latest are affirming what the Bible - You're welcome, Jess. It's been a great pleasure. (rousing music)