- Hello, everybody. - Welcome to Instagram. - [Josiah] Where do to get advice on what - My mom. - [Josiah] Where do you go - [Both] My mom. - [Josiah] Where do you go if you want contracted home-work done? - Homework? I'm not in school. - I dropped out. - Well, I go to Instagram (all laughing) &quot;@pleasehatethesethings&quot;, and most good pictures on their account. - Best, greatest, most - Someday I wanna have a house, - Is this the house you want? - That house looks perfect already because it looks like the back - Did you see the door though, Jude? It looks like someone slapped this house. - It looks like it was made (Instagram comedy sound effects) You have to literally and vice versa. - Yeah, it's a built in because you open the door anyways. - The only reason I don't is because it's one of those - Why didn't they fix it? - That's the good question. - I heard you like hinges. - Why is there so much gold? - I'm glad a D&amp;D campaign - [Josiah] Why are the hinges - Why is that blue? Who Who told you to do that? - This one's missing... That one's just a regular handle! - Why is the drawer so small? Why is that one different They're different heights. - [Josiah] Is this a guitar shaped object? - It's a guitar on top of a stove! Why? - This is like a blanket, it looks like. - No, that is gold - [Jude] Those are different heights! (Bren laughs) Coming upstairs after school, you know? - Your dad's just like &quot;Hey-a sport. How was school?&quot; - &quot;You hand me me a roll? There isn't any up here for some reason.&quot; - Not only is it not in a good place, but it's also on carpet so that carpet's gonna have - It's like the rugs that you which gross me out so much. - No, no. Oh. (both laughing) - Oh. Oh, no! - Wait, no, is he gonna turn on the light? Oh nope, there we go. Almost there. Now you gonna take that off. You have to- - Yup, there you go. Take it off. - Turn on the oven to... - Are those only sponges? - I mean, yeah, they can't - So they decide instead to just only put sponges in there. That's the sponge drawer. - Why is it like built into the tub? Did they just cut a hole in their tub? - Did they forget how tubs work? - I just realized that the - Yeah, literally. That's what we're saying is - I know they have those for where there's like a door on the bathtub, but there is no door here. - But like the door makes sense. That! - In this case, you pick up a wall, you have to like caulk it back afterwards. - You just lift it up. - Every time you bathe, you have to Hulk your Okay, you know these are painted So was the vehicle just like woo? - This one was painted by a with a paintbrush. - It probably was. - So they screwed up the road and then they just - That doesn't make those areas drivable. So why are the lines not just - Look at that one. It's like a square. - That's the emergency lane. - Somebody is like, &quot;That's just the case of No, someone purposefully painted that. - If water gets on your floor, it's just gonna go down into your vent. - No, no, see, that's It soaks up the water. - So if you take this line right here. See how it's lined up? - Oh, very much does not - Doesn't line up with this wall either. Doesn't line up with this rug. (laughing) - Ugh! - No, no. - What is this perspective? Look at the room in the background. - Wait a minute. What? - Is this room like on an incline? - The tub's like... - You could've just made a straight line and gotten a shorter door instead of- - No, tall door. - No, I do not agree with the - Okay, look at the inside Do you see where they had it and then decided they didn't like that and just flipped it around? - Wait, hinges, you don't put the hinges on the outside of the door, Did it used to be a door handle? - Did a vampire bite it? - Yeah, this door's a vampire now. - The door's a vampire. - This gets a hard F-tier. - You had one single job and now you no longer have a single job. If I am your boss and I see - Yeah, literally just take - I know, I know. Wait, wait... - It's 'cause you picked - No, the best part about you can tell that he did it before 'cause the floor is still wet. - Oh my God, you've put three fails in front of us in a row somehow. - This looks like it turns so and use your, wash your hands in this little corner right here. - Or alternatively, you and just make a mess. - I think that's specific kind of faucet only the handle turns, so it's still just gonna pour - Let's give some benefit of the doubt. Maybe the counter is at a slant - That's such a stretch. By the way guys, the ones we approve are gonna be built into the house we build in a video someday. - Ooh, I can't wait to come downstairs. - See what I would do is and call someone from the other room. And when they're running just open the fridge - What? - They just want to feel close to nature. - Yeah. - No, this birdhouse used to be outside, which is why there's a pillar They just built the house around it. - There's so much work that You had to put a hole in You had to put whatever this Is that just a baby gate, - The thought of it being a baby gate only right there is really funny. - Yeah, it's so you can remove it so you can hop up your stairs fast. - [Bren] This is like my house. - Yeah, literally, where off a cliff basically. - I'd like to think this You open it and just fall and die. - It's the portal to - Yeah, have fun like long - I feel like I hate this like church pew more than the actual door. - You'd have to like climb up on that and like not get possessed by whatever doll is sitting on it, and then like open the door. - Fox or a cat of some kind. - Yeah, but it's got like a polo on. - Can we see outside? No, we can't. - No, there's just heaven. - Why is there a gear What are you, peeing and What does it do? - You don't shift gears - Do you pee harder and - Can this pivot? No, it cannot. (all laughing) - I can put my wallet in there. Like what? - It's the jed! - I'm gonna wear my - It's the jed. - My denim hat and the jed. - A blanket with a jean pocket on it. - Google might actually Gimme a second. - Oh my God, there it is. Yeah, see, denim pocket. Yeah. You can buy it in - Did you add it to your cart? - Please buy the jean bed. (Bren laughs) - Me when I put Minecraft - They like looked at Tony Stark's house. - &quot;Life does not have to - Yeah, you're right. - Why do you have so many shelves that you don't keep anything in? - I have a question. That shelf on that like is that a window or is that a mirror? - You can see the fence So that is a window. - [Josiah] This is a - Okay, I almost like the but in this case, it's awful. (Bren laughing) Yo, you can get two of the - Exactly. It's all in one. - People are talking so I want like a front facing bidet. And this is what it is. - This toilet needs a bidet so you can get from both - It's that shower with like (all laughing) Why do you? It's an outlet. It's not even lined up. - All right, guys. Let's do it again. - Yeah! - Let's put lines on things. - [Bren] Look at that! (Jude mimics throwing up) - This is so dumb. - What came first, the - I want to think that the and some really, really petty employee just constructed an entire wall - Yeah, it's a construction office so they just do this for fun, I guess. - Okay, okay, okay, okay. So if you look close, it is - Yeah, no, that is - This isn't like a fun thing they did where they cut this off but they look like weird, this is just literally behind the wall. - I wonder if on the someone has access to the They're just sharing it and so they don't have to - You can't get to this. - Yeah, no, you can. Look very closely at that piece of wood launching itself up at an - Oh, you can fold it - It folds down to cover - Yeah, see, it's like a when you're building stairs. - But also, if you look at it, it ends before the full opening so you could still theoretically just fall and die through the hole. - [Josiah] I hate that you - [Bren] Some of them are straight up and some of them are bent very badly. And some of them, if you look at the wall, some of 'em were just built into the wall. - This looks like something for Project Dad, like - This looks like someone died here or is going to very soon. - Hey, if you wanna change you have to pull down the stair floor because the thermostat's on - How? I wanna know how. I would love to know how this works. How do you bend a tile? - You went into the where you could make things look like they're farther away or closer. - It looks so dirty though. Look at the grout and - Well yeah, it's a sink. What do you think will happen in there? - Yeah, but even the outside of the sink looks like it's been inside the sink. - No sane person tiles the sink because when you have to clean it, you have to like scrape the, ugh! - I was about to say, it but it's not 'cause the grout is dirty. - There's a reason we and porcelain for sinks instead of tile! - Jilverware! - The japkin holder, the judder dish. - Jutter dish! - The jates. How much do these cost? $20. - $20 For the japkin holder. - I'm gonna go pee after that joke. - That joke was so - Yeah, let's do something without him. - Okay, oh. - Man, Jude's missing especially the third light switch. - You know they sell - They had some extras lying around. They wanted to save the - What is that? Is that the jair? - It's the jair. - It's the jair. - [Josiah] It's the jair. (both laughing) - Oh, oh! Okay no, we have to save this one for Jude 'cause he hates crown molding. Welcome back, Jude. - This is like before they and they just like... - The only time you two is in Minecraft clearly. - Why do the stairs - Oh my God. - Why do you have high that changes height too? - Dropped in there a spiral staircase, but it wasn't quite tall enough, so they... - So they added a square Oh good, I can't wait to and fall and die. - Yeah, all the steps are different. Like they're all gonna be - At the top is like a normal step and then the second one's a little long and the third one's really short. - [Jude] Why is the TV - It's so your neighbors can watch it. - First of all, the fireplace Second of all, the Third of all, there's a TV facing a wall. Fourth of all, what is the vent in that cabinet on the right? - [Josiah] What is this? Do you put like books there, - That's what I'm saying. Yeah. What is the vent in the - What is this? Is this like - It's an office. There's - I love that that TV is diagonal because those cabinets with - Oh God, there's a mantle there. - I have never seen anything - Oh my God. It's the chairs - This is so you and your friend can be really close while you're peeing. - You can't. - The point of this is for two friends to stand about three at like this kind of configuration. And you see if you can get and then bounce into the urinals or just cross into the, you know? Either way, you'll hit the urinal. It's a pretty great system. (Bren laughs) - I love this one. Someone just nailed a two - Barn door is are back. So you know what we did? We took your normal door and - I hope that it's not his normal door. That thing looks like - Also, it has a knob on I don't know. - Can you imagine the sound - I know exactly what sound they'll make. I will go record a video on my phone. - You have one of these? - No, no, no. I have a shower curtain. - Oh. (shower curtain rattling) Oh no. - That's so loud! (Bren laughing) - Could you hear it from there? - Yeah, I could hear it. It - Lamp. Is that a colander? (Jude laughs) - You can put some spaghetti - You cannot drain anything through this. - You can drain electricity. - &quot;Life ain't always beautiful, - It's a truck bed, it's the tred. - The tred! - There's a bumper and a - Oh, there's a tow hitch. Heck yeah. I can't wait to tow my dresser. - Ah! - This is like, you and your eyes start to get fuzzy. - I looked at it for four seconds and that's why I screamed 'cause it hurt. It's making me dizzy. I already... Because the bathroom has scales, does it have to like every now and then, how does this work? - They all go down the drain in the tub. - You never actually have 'cause it molts, and then you just put (Jude mimics throwing up) - You ever just have to peel - What is the AC doing? - What is this? Is this how you, they tied and they ran it all the way down. (Bren and Josiah laughing) All the way down. - That's like a 36-foot string attached to a single light bulb. - Imagine if you just used a light switch. Why does it go to nowhere? - It literally goes to nothing. - I mean, there's probably a room over here somewhere, but like. - No, I refuse. - It's called a landing - I wish I could land on the concrete. - Look at this like Then you have the AC and then you have the really long carpet. - Nevermind that. The heating unit goes directly in contact with that wooden table over there with the dead leaves in it. - There's so many fire - [Josiah] I love the porthole they have out to the real world. - That shower would give me anxiety 'cause I'd just be like in a closet. - This was plumbing in a wall and they decided to put a shower in there, but they couldn't move that - Talk about a wash closet. - No like toilet or sink or - You got a towel rack. So just make sure to when you go shower, I guess. - I mean, I guess you could if you really need to go. - Hey, gotta use your - Ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh! - I will, very quickly, and on my face. - Can you imagine an old person trying to navigate this place? - They'd navigate their way to a tomb. - I think it's so it can be like steeper, but then just do like - Yeah. - [Josiah] You can tell this is a bad idea 'cause they needed two railings. - Do I need like hiking (Bren laughs) - It's the jable? - We've had so many jean objects today. - We've had the jed, - What do you put on this table? What do we put on this table? - Torsos. - Do you put a bust of - Yes! Yeah. Oh, oh my God. That would - But then it looks like or like a mid-torso. - You just glue some mannequin and give 'em like a hat. (all laughing) Okay, so let's go over to First of all, I see a chest - We just keep the bodies - Yeah, exactly. And then we have the washing just also kind of relaxing out And then a dryer maybe, - You can tell that the like if you look at that one on the right, that was definitely done 'cause there's like an Like it's just bad. - I would hate to go and do my laundry in the middle of the night because I would accidentally put clothes in the chest freezer and put my frozen - Oh, they wouldn't be - They've gone to all this effort to like try to modernize this. First of all, they put which is just weird. The stove and the fridge Also, another vent that's not There's so many things I'm seeing. Oh look, an outlet with something going. The fridge doesn't line up to the cabinet! - That window for the with the doorway for the booth at the top. (Bren laughs) - Why is this beam here? This is transparent. There's no wall here. So this thing is on both - You can see on the other that it doesn't line up with - There's also a random - This is all beyond the fact that the stools have shoes, ah! - It's line time. - You don't even have to! We can see it! - That's actually, that's actually level. - Okay, so they put the sink with that. But this... This is my new hobby, drawing - Yeah, I can't do this - I'm done with this Instagram page. - It's 12:30 and my room's - If you enjoyed this video, maybe check out the video we where we took a look - If you have other accounts and stuff like this you want us to see, hit us up on Twitter. - Because the YouTube comments hate when you put links in them. - Subscribe please. - No, don't do that. In fact, we want our not to get bigger, unlike most YouTubers. - We take pride in that.