In June of 2000, the power shut off across simply wasn't enough electricity to meet demands, in California's largest load shed event many rolling blackouts that hit the state in the the shortages resulted in blackouts, soaring billion dollars in economic losses. But this time, with engineering. There were some outages and a to drought, but the primary cause of the disaster manipulating the newly de-regulated market for Utilities were having to buy electricity much they could charge their customers for the it had to file for bankruptcy. And Southern Most of us pay an electric bill every month. It's meaning to us. The grid is not only mechanically complicated, too. We don't really participate at the end of every month. But it does affect us to understand the basics, especially because, stuff. I'm an engineer, I'm not an economist if you really want to understand how the power and watts. You have to look at the dollars too. Electricity is not like any normal commodity we pick up a case of kilowatt-hours. It can't really which means it has to be created at essentially fairly inelastic. We want our lights, stoves, matter the time of day. That requires the supply or down to meet demands in real-time. And the you need very expensive infrastructure for only reason it can work is that we all the costs. Call me a nerd, but I think all both on the technical side for engineers and regulators, and all the companies that It wasn't that long ago that the electric they were "vertically integrated." three major pieces of the grid within their transmission lines (which carry electricity a distribution system (which delivers electricity they had a monopoly. Customers couldn't choose And that meant that electric utilities had without any competition, they were still Over time, utilities realized the value each other in times of need. Electricity is a true For the job it does, it mostly doesn't really no matter where it came from. If one utility's they could work out a deal to share power As the practice grew more common, power would interconnect and agree to share power. Every different weather conditions, and outages at to spread out that variability and risk. were interconnected by transmission lines, major interconnections in the US and Canada Historically, the wholesale price one utility like the rates utilities charged their on the actual cost of generating that power, so companies. But a lot of that changed in the 1990s deregulation. The idea is simple on the surface: there's no need for major utilities and there's no need to regulate the Let's let market forces drive the decisions. driving down prices, and the investment risks Quite a few states took the opportunity to a few didn't. In fact, right now, it's roughly between states when it comes to who produces power and other companies, and even big differences of deregulation has been anything but simple, and challenges. Companies trying to game the system, of it. In fact, power professionals often say just differently regulated. But how does all this Say I live on one side of a big lake. The water other side. If I want to buy some water, they they could just put it in the lake, and I could same water, but it doesn't really matter. In this hundreds of people need water, and hundreds hire any company they want to provide their doesn't really matter. Every seller puts the and each buyer takes as much out as they've how much they buy and sell, the lake stays full, actual water flows. In one way, you know exactly provide it. But in another way, you have no idea. in the lake. This is what happens on the grid. from the power plant or plants that your utility probably didn't. Just like the water in the lake, from high potential to low, sloshing and flowing This is a lot like how a deregulated grid to their customers don't generate the power from wholesale power providers, separate companies challenge here. If I'm on my big lake wanting some water company to see who's got the best price, or even second by second, and honestly, I'm not if I'm a water company on the lake, it's a lot of their different needs. It makes a lot more sense Like I mentioned, this varies quite a bit to be as general as possible. Outside of those most wholesale electricity in deregulated areas is purchasers like utilities submit bids with need for each hour of the next day. And generators electricity for a given price that's based on and operational constraints. The facilitator for every hour and matches the supply and demand the right times for the lowest cost. Here's a Let's say four generators submit bids to provide 1200 MW for a price of $20/MWh. A natural gas plant bids 500 MW for $30/MWh. And a wind farm very low bids because they have no fuel to lose money if they're connected to the grid, for every megawatt-hour they generate. They meaning they're willing to pay money to stay generators in our hypothetical hour have Let's say purchasers submitted 2,000 arrange the generation bids in order of least as economic dispatch. We buy power at the the wind farm and nuclear plant, dispatch the and we don't need the peaker plant at the last unit of supply to be dispatched. Every producer gets paid that price for the even if they bid lower, and every buyer pays that and solar are incentivized to bid 0 dollars. They It seems like a simple process in our hypothetical For one, many types of power plants can't just be They need significant lead time to start up and levels. And their costs can vary a lot depending those factors into consideration. Also, we can't day. There are always going to be differences in has problems, and other unforeseen events like So another market runs in real-time, to make up those differences and keep the supply overproduces what they bid into the day-ahead market. And if they underproduce, they may need for the shortfall. And if things really get tight usually include a way to boost prices upward, to make sure they're more closely reflecting the cost to society if people lose power, or put pay to avoid a disruption in electrical service. and it's something that the generators usually But that's not all the markets. Many areas have enough generators available to meet demands over year or so, and generators bid to create generators that win in the auction are rewarded much of that capacity actually gets used in the Texas doesn't use a capacity market and instead markets to encourage generating companies Many areas also have markets for basically services needed to keep the grid stable which accounts for very short-term fluctuations stable. There are also auctions for reserves quickly if another resource trips offline. often contracted directly instead of using pay for power plants that are on the verge capacity is replaced. Inertia services pay to to the system. I have a video on that topic if pay for some generators to have the ability to assistance from the grid. I also have a video help maintain the stability of the voltage on A potentially surprising thing about many of be generation resources bidding into them. The demand, and there are two ways to do that. You I said earlier that electricity demand is fairly customers can reduce demand, especially if they're users like refineries can shift schedules around on the grid are getting scarce. This is how you making more money participating in electricity that will gather up a bunch of smaller power package them up, and sell that demand reduction market. And some utilities coordinate similar offering credits on your bill if you have a electricity markets just opens up this world But there is one big way my lake analogy from the transmission and distribution lines that And in reality, they're not really like a lake, And they didn't just appear. Someone has to build so those costs need to be covered by the rates we this case, there's really no way to deregulate parallel, competing networks of transmission and we'd just have too many wires across the transmission and distribution companies charge users and generators. And of course, there's place to make this happen. Wholesale purchasers power that will be lost along the way, but also that power to travel, and pay the transmission and Confusingly, the flow of power isn't really even on a system-by-system basis. Power flows and there's no simple way to keep track of who the network. Transmission reservations but the actual electrical power follows house where you pay one-to-one for the payments to transmission operators aren't always moves through their system. Still, it's the best reliably across the grid and that the owners of The other thing is that those canals don't so much water, just like the transmission managing the wholesale electricity market, next cheapest source of power, but that power to where it needs to go. Grid like rush hour for electrons. They usually do this an idea called Locational Marginal Pricing. You prices can vary across the state, reflecting a the generators are and the congestion on the at this point you're seeing how complicated all Grid operators have to take into consideration all these details - power flows, second-by-second changes in the system - in order possible. And it gets even more complicated like home solar installations, that put energy And this is only on the wholesale side dollars moving around came out of our you and I really don't participate in the company we pay for electricity (the retail and in many cases, doesn't own the infrastructure of work. And for around a quarter of the US, the you can choose which company you buy your In essence, retail providers just buy power They're middlemen, the car dealerships of we just discussed so you don't have to. Retail but they can differentiate themselves by suit their customers better. One provider in customers the real-time wholesale price, of the market. Unsurprisingly, Griddy filed for their customers couldn't pay the exorbitant do is connect your dollars to specific Instead of buying power in the auction, they contract directly with wind, solar, and other So next time you get your power bill, take base rate set by your provider that covers all generation to transmission to distribution. Or various costs that it actually takes to run rate for the distribution service? Does your in the wholesale market? Is there a charge agency oversees this whole financial web of but I hope this video clears up you to think about what the price you pay for Electricity is just one of the many costs in life that, when you look below the surface, things can be surprising. Another example: razors. You can pick up a cheap razor and then spend many multiples of the original cost sponsor Henson takes the opposite approach: bite the safety blades cost pennies. It doesn't Obviously I'm a little less clean shaven than I time I've ever had a beard. I've gotten plenty good. But one thing I learned pretty quickly is shaving, and in fact, it's actually a bit more Henson offered to sponsor a video about I'll try it out, and then decide. And I keeping track of how many blades I use. A new razor's probably not going to change your necessary parts of life for a lot of us, and using and instead a part of my day that I actually figured they were old technology. Totally machine shop. I also figured there would be but that also wasn't true. The Henson is so easy cartridge razor with their flexible blades and the market for a tool and splurged on the nicest splurge. The blades for the Henson razor are so every shave and still save money. And in fact, if you can get a 100-pack of blades on me. Just your cart, enter the code, and the discount will service or a monthly fee, it's just a cool and I think you'll like it too. Thank you