Tufan Bloomberg. business Rolls-Royce since you took over joining a burning platform. Yeah, I mean, what we were trying to do, is actually competitive, resilient, And frankly, Rolls-Royce has never been So that was actually our vision. progress, I would say we really in a we made a great progress in spite of potential of the business significantly. It came from all divisions. In fact, in it, in the first year, our Now, this year we said we obviously guidance for the year. are going to when we set the mid-term I call it strategic goals, but mid-term ambitious. year's results, we are going to achieve performance improvement and on cash more So we are actually accelerating the new share price was the best performing It's done quite well this year as well. too quickly? share price. What we need to do is we have a very, So we need to implement that really And and in fact, transformations. I, I actually have four sort of pillars that enables it. So effectively, they are put the mirror business. so that it becomes alignment, tool and good performance culture. You change everything about and you do It's high pace intensity and with three So that is that actually it's not only So what will you focus on in the next There's a lot going on term supply But what will you focus on to get the So we now I talk about green list, the sort of lots of things. We are to execute. And next six months will be about that outlook. is going to deliver, frankly, What what you have a view what you can achieve Now you can do things that you couldn't That opens up even more opportunities. now. even more efficiency or is the next year you've already set out? initiatives. we are implementing. That will come next year onwards. PS1 billion to make all our products not actually benefit from that yet. improve. sort of engines on wing. sort of how long they are on wing, which We are going to improve that 40%. and we do not yet benefit from that. We are investing in it, but we didn't will. New contracts are coming with better It is actually changing the mix of That is still to come as well. examples, but one example from Data's Our power systems have around 25% in I'm sure you know that. It's double digit growth that we are But to do that, if you look at I mean, know, there's commercial aviation with everything else in between. growth? than others in the next two, three years transformations? Francine. actually grew from nothing. more performance improvement to do and more than the market. talking about why by the market this Our market share is 61% and our 35%. actually growing. business model. So it is profitable growth. growth. used to say 1 million times zero zero systems, we made zero money. We are growing. areas. We actually have great wins. Then we have other things we are working We want to enter Narrowbody micro reactors. Francine, but in the world. this kind of nuclear capability. I'm ahead, by the way. And that's our in turn. So that makes us a natural leaders in, I mean, you've also had concerns, right, have gone for the GE engine. fight back on that? So, of course, we have concerns So life would be really boring, but I so that is effectively what's going on Let's talk about that. 21,000 is a is a very good engine and versus durability. It has been flying 19000000 hours since Oh, the problem has been the durability. has been on the wing versus the What we are doing, we have been doing as get that time on wing to really And this year we have two upgrades. It is going to be in the market in the end of next year. that is frankly done. because it is a very good product. I mean, do you do you have any idea of it just too soon to tell? because it is it is going to be a very Really. when you look at geopolitics, there's a about tariffs, trade wars, and that Supply chains have already been Do they get worse from here? chains have been really stressed. our power systems, different supply It's already destabilize aerospace at capacity disappeared, had to disappear was impacted by that. back very fast. I'm talking about smaller companies, you a moving target. So that is the issue in aerospace supply Are you talking about tariffs? aerospace supply chain, but obviously it frankly, and in our view, always is a It creates sort of makes win win So so I think we will see where that But I, I would like to think that's not But one thing I want to make is we are company. We have 6000 employees in the U.S. employees in supply chain. contribution, 0 billion and growing It is it is actually growing. military and civil aircraft in the US like this long range sort of attack re-engineered B-52. trusted as an American company and they What do you think a Trump administration transport, commercial or defence? start with defence, given you talk about obviously spending has been going up in If you look at actually some of the world. relative to the history. But one thing I'm going to say, I company. Are you benefiting from this? A sort of segment doesn't benefit from Oh, our growth is enormous regardless of I talk about. But there's so there seems to be a new In the war. possible extra sanctions on Russia. producers, which you need to almost I mean, is that even or is there going Are there are already bottlenecks? materials actually includes titanium, to alternative source already. last couple of years and different. almost two years, right? anniversary. Boeing has had a very difficult time in Have you met with him? this new job and this new hurdle? I met him because Boeing is a very important industry player. Rolls-Royce experience as well. details, but recover very quickly, although there are industry needs strong Boeing. So so I think hopefully after now that move to the recovery. How quickly do you think they'll move? any advice for Boeing right now? He obviously had a private conversation. saying this year Boeing will recover. least. the culture, you need to look at how the I mean, we change everything on I always say people always look at what what we are doing and how we are how. culture. run the performance management, lots of So therefore, frankly, they will do some Rolls-Royce is a UK listed company. listings. I mean, have they? right now? Is a regulation that needs to change What would you do differently? eight sectors under industrial strategy. But I would say sort of I've seen lots strategies, lots of companies struggle I think the issue will be on the Can you actually cut the red tape? of the things frankly, we are still smart process. There is no excuse for that to be It needs to be accelerated. wish is they focus on competitively Why am I saying that? advantage industry, that's a sustainable In terms of exports, for example, we competitively advantaged. gas turbines. countries in the world and three and we are one of them, by the way, that That's the point. aerospace and nuclear needs to be I told you we have and UK has unique There is no single private company in but we can be and should be in some market leaders in the world. Because you have the capability, we can create supply chain in the country. needs to accelerate significantly. Do you think that the government I hope so. So you ask what needs to happen. processes needs to accelerate Frankly, that's my point on because these things actually industrial strategy. implementation I always worry about. high profile, very profitable companies thinking about listing elsewhere? I mean, I know there is a debate. overvalued? on that, but I have some sort of. If you actually look at the data after Discount footsie versus world index That's factual. And so that may be one factor. profitability of two companies. In fact, our experience shows, frankly, Well, I think investors, because we have fact, we have more US than UK at this So that's another factor out there. The problem with Footsie is there are and some companies are leaving. with sort of if you invest in song, then companies will be more more