Hi, Vsauce. Michael here. You can practice speaking backwards, so when your words are reversed their intelligible. But here's something The digits in the speed of light are as the latitude of the Great Pyramid of Giza. And, as the anagram genius has revealed, all the world's a stage but if you rearrange the letters it becomes be engine of a film or, more pessimistically, the fine game of nil. What does all of this mean? Are these just coincidences? Or are greater powers at work? Why is it so easy for us to find hidden messages? Why can a mere and why is it so fun? When you reverse Neil Armstrong saying 'small step for man' you can hear what sounds like man will Lee Harvey Oswald assassinated and this interview he defends the Fair of which he was a member. Now listen to what it 'and the Fair Play for Cuba'. is that a coincidence or a subconscious It's a coincidence. For crying out loud, if anybody says 'and and then reverses it, it sounds the same. This app, by the way, is called It's a really easy way to quickly reverse Matthew Hutson in 'The 7 Laws of Magical Thinking' points out that if you record yourself saying and then reverse it it sounds a bit like happy birthday to Kind of. If a word can be spelt the and backward, it's a palindrome. But if a word or phrase sounds the same, whether spoken forward it is a phonetic palindrome. For example, say yes. Reversed Pretty cool. But check out this poem by By the way, some people can speak in It is really cool to see them in action. Watch Guy's lean back after this video. It's linked down in the Apophenia is the perception of in information. One type of Apophenia is Pareidolia - the scene or hearing of things that For instance, hearing your name being in the sound of running water, or in a non-English song or seeing faces that weren't purposely placed there. Our probably because being hyper can save your life. If there's ambiguity thing hiding in the shadows is a threat, or just a shadow, it's advantageous to air on the side of threat. Organisms with a healthy sense of Apophenia live longer, long enough to have kids and and naturally become the norm. We connect faces so well Hutson relates a story of faces on things she doesn't wanna lose, She says the faces make her less likely to If you like it, you should have put a you should have drawn a face on it. We are so good at teasing out patterns and faces from actual random sequences don't always feel random to us. Originally, Apple's iTunes shuffle feature generated They said that similar songs, or songs appeared in a string, which, of course, is from randomness but it didn't feel So Apple introduced a smart shuffle that avoided totally random sequences didn't seem random to our pattern As Steve Jobs explained, &quot;we're making it to make it feel more random&quot;. Our impressive ability to imagine comes to connecting songs and moving images. This dancing famously sync up with any music you play. Try it. What kind of black magic is going on Well, as it turns out, most of it is in Radiolab reported that Michigan of dancing animations like this one, or this one, move at typical song tempos but also dance, various other different related rhythms of movement allowing them to seemingly fit many different tempos. Selection bias helps a lot too. We fall prey to this when we reject all the times the animation doesn't really sync up, focusing instead when it does. The bizarre pyramid coincidence mentioned earlier is a lot less bizarre when you consider we placed the decimal point, and that a number of degrees this precise By the fourth decimal we're only talking so it's easy to make the rest fit the and have still picked a point on the pyramid. Confirmation bias also comes into play here. If you really want two things to sync up, they will. We often look for evidence that supports while marginalising things against it. As Marshall McLuhan said &quot;I wouldn't These biases also help explain famous movies and famous albums can line up. One the most popular states that if you at the same time as The Wizard of Oz, line up. Entire communities have sprouted of movies and albums. Some of my and the Little Mermaid, Lorde's Pure Heroine and Twilight Saga - Breaking Dawn 2, and the end of 2001: A Space Odyssey with Pink Floyd's Echoes. There are conspiracies that these were somehow secretly planned, though in reality they're just accidental music videos. The confirmation bias and the law of near enough. A behaviour of our pattern sensitive Two things don't have to line up exactly, or literally, for us to see a connection. This is why are a great way to look psychic. These unsurprising when you consider the fact paces and rhythms we enjoy, and are much smaller than the number possible. In 'The Improbability Principal', David J &quot;the probability lever&quot;. What may be rare on average, or when considering all can be less rare for specific scenarios, even if they are only marginally is a proverbially unlikely event, but wasn't just struck by lightning once he was struck three times. It never killed him but four years after his his gravestone was also struck by What are the chances? I mean, clearly robot built out of lightning rods or had somehow angered Zeus, right? Probably not. You see, while for the the chance have been struck by lightning sportsman like Summerford, it's not as low. The law of truly large numbers also comes into play here. With lightning striking Earth forty to for it to strike and thousand of years of recorded history, it's that at least once a story like Summerford's would have happened. Given the truly large number of people who visit Disney World every day, and the fact that they take photos and lots of them, it's actually not surprising at all that a story like Alex and Donna Voutsinas' has happened. While sorting through old photos before of Donna at Disney World, fourteen years before But then Alex noticed something. He too had visited Disney World as a child, and there, in the background, was his father pushing Sometimes coincidences can be tragic. In 1864, Abraham Lincoln's son, Robert Lincoln, was saved from death - when a stranger grabbed him by the shirt collar moments before he plunged on the train That stranger turned out to be Edwin Shakespearean actors of the time. So famous in fact Robert recognized him and had a letter sent thanking him Edwin Booth's brother, John Wilkes Booth, assassinating Abraham Lincoln. Strange as they seem at first, math says that given enough time and in finding them, coincidences and connections will be found, even unlikely ones. The coincidences between Abraham Lincoln and John F Kennedy are famous. Both were elected to the presidency in Lincoln was shot at Ford's Theatre, Kennedy was shot in a 1961 Lincoln made by Ford. Both presidents' last names have seven letters and both assassins had 15 letters in The list goes on, as it should. If you look long enough, you can find things or events. They may seem strange at first but tend to pretty expected. For just one example, name length isn't that wildly variable. Seven-letter names are pretty common. Kennedy. Michael. Stevens In the famous spooky presidential held by the Skeptical Inquirer in 1992, found similar lists of crazy between 21 pairs of former presidents. Given the vast amount of details in any one it's pretty easy. This court can be when it comes to over-analysing. Of course, hidden messages and signs are often intentionally included in media for fun, or to reward attentive viewers. But unintentional, extraordinary things happen all the time. It's not really that extraordinary. There's a famous calculation that is known as Littlewood's law. Given we are awake every day, and if you calculate the odds of something happening to you are only one in a million. Well, you should expect that thing to David J Hand took this even further with seven billion people on Earth the chance that an event with a to each of us won't happen today is in 10 to 3040. As Persi Diaconis put it, the truly unusual day would be a day nothing unusual happens. And as always, thanks for watching. You may have noticed a lot of YouTube Well, that is not a coincidence. It is Many people are going back but across the world millions of children won't be either because they work to or live without a home. Or in areas They may experience overcrowding at school or a lack of teaching and school supplies. But luckily, we can help. Donations to Comic Relief's School of can help disadvantaged young people all get an education. It doesn't take much to You can learn more in the description below or donate right now. And as always, thanks for helping and thanks for learning.