From this time, with the cooperation of NEXCO Central Japan, we will start a &quot;Highway Meal Special&quot; that introduces restaurants and specialty stores in the area.Although it will be irregular, we will introduce service areas and parking areas in NEXCO Central Japan. We will be introducing facilities that viewers will use, so please look forward to it.The first installment of this memorable special feature is Shizuoka. We would like to introduce you to EXPASA Hamanako, which is busy every day on the Tomei Expressway in Hamamatsu City.EXPASA Hamanako is a large service area that connects Tokyo to Nagoya, with up and down lines converging. It is one of the best service areas in Shizuoka Prefecture, used by many drivers from early morning until late at night.This time , we will be offering 24-hour udon and soba corner, rice bowls, set meals, seafood bowls, curry, and more. EXPASA Hamana has everything from a food court that offers a variety of food menus , a restaurant that uses the famous Lake Hamana eel, a ramen hall where you can enjoy ramen and Hamamatsu gyoza made with homemade noodles, soft serve ice cream and sweets to accompany your drive, and a souvenir corner. We took a closer look at the lake.First , we started with the food court, which is currently preparing for business.The restaurant serves a large amount of food to a large number of customers. A variety of cooking equipment is used at the restaurant.Preparation of pork soup.Taking away the harshness of the soup stock.Preparation of tonteki using local brand pork &quot;Hamanako Sodachi&quot; Adding special sauce, vacuum packing, and low-temperature cooking. prepared pork soup Add pork to the pork and carefully remove the scum.Make a large amount of miso soup and prepare the ingredients.Add vegetables to the pork soup and let it cook slowly.Miso used for the pork soup.Hamanatei is popular for its unajyu Hamanako eel. Rolled In addition to the deep-fried chicken prepared in-house , we also prepare croquettes and pork cutlets by cooking them at a low temperature.While measuring the center temperature of the meat, we heat it over several hours.2-3 Is it time? The food court opens at 10 a.m. The corner serving udon and soba (Sazanami) is open 24 hours a day, but other corners open at 10 a.m. The restaurant opens at 11 a.m. Customers flock to the store all at once. Zaru Soba and Unagi Shigureni Rice Set Zaru Udon is served right away for work or travel, so customers can eat right away. Speedy cooking is required Fried chicken set meal Tuna, salmon and squid seafood tricolor bowl and pork soup Lunch limited edition beef hitsumabushi set Chinese soba soba Aosa soba Beef short rib bowl Teppanyaki meat spa Hamanako Sodachi's pork cutlet set ``Supakatsu'' with pork cutlet on a meat spa on a griddle.Eel simmered with rice.Colorful seafood bowl.Katsu curry.Order all at once.Kakiage soba and kakiage udon.Meat bean sprouts set meal.This is not pork cutlet. ``Jumbo Croquette'' Eel rice bowl, pork soup wasabi beef bowl , curry udon Hamanako Sodachi's double tonteki set meal includes a double with twice as much meat as well as the regular menu. Miso cutlet Chicken- filled Tsukimi-don Kitsune udon Two kinds of raw and kettle-fried Sakura shrimp Tuna bowl Negitoro-don We also have a children's menu in the service area, which is often used by families.Children 's play area Next to the Rate Children's Udon and Children's Curry Food Court, there is also an eel restaurant that uses eel from Lake Hamana.The name of the store is &quot;Hamanatei&quot; and they serve eel dishes such as Unajyu, Una Toro Jyu, Una Chazen, Umaki, Shirayaki, etc. local You can enjoy dishes made with eel from Lake Hamana.Adjacent to the food hall with a view of the sea is Hamanako Seimen Kobo, which produces homemade noodles for gyoza and ramen , and Ramen Hamanako Sodachi. The menu is You can enjoy sakura shrimp ramen, agodashi ramen, pork bone soy sauce ramen, gyoza, fried rice, and chashu rice bowl.The noodles are made in-house using Yumechikara flour from Hokkaido.After the noodle making process, they are aged. This is a service area that serves authentic ramen with the aroma of cut wheat, which is made from aged noodles that are used to make carefully selected ramen.During the hours when many customers use the service, the kitchen is very busy in order to accommodate the large number of orders. Hamamatsu Gyoza is the number one gyoza consumer in Japan , so you can enjoy your favorite ramen with the popular fried rice and gyoza sets.We offer three types of ramen: pork bone soy sauce, agodashi, and sakura shrimp.Click here The Sakura Shrimp Ramen and Hamamatsu Gyoza can be enjoyed in the store or taken out.If you are looking for souvenirs, we also recommend the shopping hall.Local specialties and specialties. You can find souvenirs and convenience stores here.This is the souvenir corner of the food hall overlooking the ocean.Hamamatsu gyoza and processed eel products are on display.Sweets made with Shizuoka tea are also available . In the snack corner, including jelly from Kan , the soft-serve ice cream made with Mikkabi mandarin oranges is very popular.In addition, we also recommend the eel Mont Blanc soft serve. EXPASA Hamanako is a sweet potato cultivated with the fertilizer EXPASA Hamanako.The view from the service area observation plaza, where you can enjoy a spectacular view of Lake Hamana , is a popular photo spot overlooking Lake Hamana. The service area is full of attractions such as ``Fune Tours'' and lover's sacred places.The peak lunch period is over and the time has calmed down a bit, so we will try the recommended dishes of EXPASA Hamanako Food Court.We offer udon and soba noodles. "Sazanami" is Aosa Udon Unagi Shigu We recommend the simmered rice set.We also offer side menus such as sakura shrimp rice and eel shigure simmered rice.At the rice bowl corner, ``Kohan'', you can enjoy Tsukimi-don full of chicken, Wasabi Beef-don, Beef Kalbi-don, and Miso Katsu. At Nagisa, which offers a set menu where you can enjoy rice bowls , Hamanako Sodachi's Double Tonteki Set Meal is highly recommended.We also offer teppanyaki meat spa and supakatsu topped with pork cutlet, and this corner is recommended for drivers who want a hearty meal with double the amount of meat.``Yunagi '' We offer colorful seafood bowls and premium eel bowls made with fresh seafood. Shiosai offers a children's menu and curry with toppings of your choice, such as tonkatsu and hot balls.Only available at lunch time, with beef hitsumabushi set, and on a weekly basis. There is a new menu every time you visit. The attraction is that you can encounter them.When you think of Lake Hamana, you think of ``eel'', so try the ``Unachazen'' served at Hamana-tei.It comes with liver soup and pickles.At first, we had eel and rice. Enjoy it as is, especially in a bowl, with wasabi stalks, green onions, and pickles. It is also recommended to have it with condiments.Finally , add the condiments, pour the dashi soup over it, and make it into ochazuke.There are many recommended menu items, but another recommended by the head chef is roast beef and bonito flakes with a special sauce. &quot;Wasabi Beef Bowl&quot; with Kuki Sawabi and Surprise Grated wasabi is served on the side, and miso soup is also included in the set. Pour the refreshing sauce over it and enjoy. Why not ring the bell and make memories of your trip at Lake Hamana, a sacred place for lovers with a beautiful sunset? What do you think about EXPASA, the service area that many people visit? This is the first coverage of the highway meal special feature on EXPASA Hamanako, which is cooked and served one after another.Next , we will find out which service areas and parking areas we will be appearing in, and see you next time for the highway meal special feature on EXPASA Hamanako. Thank you very much to everyone for your cooperation in this interview.