Players have a wide selection of equipment Teeth, claws, stingers, spikes, each weapon in combat. Herbivore players tend to favor highly intimidating In the African meta, things are taken to the and cape buffalo rocking some of the most game. So you might be surprised to learn that one savannah is the zebra, a build with no obvious So what is it about the zebra build that has savannah? We'll answer that question and many more CuriosityStream. To answer that question, let's zoom out abilities of the entire equine faction, including Lets begin with their stats. Right off the bat, it's plain to see that an above average power stat to back it up. With slightly above average intelligence and at first glance you might actually think these like a wolf or eagle. Something that can overwhelm its target with before the defender has a chance to counterattack, range, chipping away at it or tiring it out. Clearly, stats do not tell the whole story So, let's delve a little deeper into the abilities utilize to survive. Seeing as their highest stat is mobility, best defense against a predator player's While not technically as fast as the max speed to maintain high speeds for much longer, and bear have little chance of catching them without The horse's specialized hooves grant them them to ignore the movement penalties of rocky The likelihood of a successful ambush is driven stat, which allows it to engage in herd behaviors vulnerable teammates of approaching enemies. Taking shifts keeping watch is really important need to spend massive amounts of time grazing. See, horses did not spec into the ruminant as much energy from grass as builds like sheep This was an intentional trade off to keep enabling them to dash quickly and jump great But because the amount of time they need to double that of an equivalent sized ruminant, an ambush alone. If they do get attacked, the chase begins, core abilities comes into play: sweating. Now, I do need to address an inaccuracy I to date: Are Humans OP where I say that the This isn't entirely accurate. Horses also have the ability to sweat in order near as efficient at cooling down via sweating Sweat doesn't evaporate off of a horse as trapped in the hair on the horse's body. As such, humans do still absolutely crush distance running, BUT, sweating is still an reduces a player's loss of stamina during distance a player can travel. Anyways, if during a chase, the horse player avoid an attack, that's when the other signature Now, in relation to the more typical combat Kicking is generally seen as a rather janky combo breaker attempt, or the best option their characters to allow for better combat Generally speaking, kicks don't deal that and easy to dodge, and they can even throw However if we take a look at the Horse's The horse's kick hits with a force of around a jaguar bite and just a bit below the power Both of those builds are top tier specifically having a kick of roughly equivalent power However plenty of large builds have no issue Moose, elk, wildebeest, and other large ungulate connect with a charging slam. However attacks like that are incredibly telegraphed dodging them. In contrast, a horse kick has incredible frame unreactable if you're within range, which This makes approaching a defending equine builds. However the horse's kick has synergies that explained by its base damage and frame data. When it comes to defending themselves from are at a huge advantage. Let me explain. So, most herbivore players have only two options Fight or flight. Carnivore players know this, and tailor their player's limited options. When wolves hunt large prey, like elk, their nerve, and frighten it into fleeing. They will not commit to an attack if the defending However, they will continue to pressure it bait out a defensive attack. As mentioned before, these counterattacks quickly lowering the elk's morale, especially and further away. It's only after a prey animal starts fleeing deal damage, by attacking the hindquarters In order to stop these attacks, most herbivores their attackers, which just resets the situation Horses, Zebras, and Donkeys can completely grants them an extremely valuable option: Since they don't need to stop and face their their kicks are harder to dodge than horn K/D ratios against lions and hunting dogs While it might not be as impressive and showy no denying that this strategy is extremely danger. On top of all of the other benefits, kicking vitals well out of reach, and isn't exposing some horn users do. It does have its limitations though. Kicking backwards requires specific positioning vision, will make your attacks less accurate. And on the odd chance that your opponent does you're able to turn away, your options to near as powerful. Now, I do want to mention that unlike many lower teeth, equine players do possess a full to deliver quite powerful bites. So they aren't completely helpless when But nonetheless the unidirectional nature that some counterplay is available. Next lets discuss the advantages and disadvantages We'll start with the Horse, the most well Horses undoubtedly have the best base stats being the most obvious things that scale with They've also got the fastest top speed. However, perhaps even more importantly, the cross-species team strategies, which can lead Zebras have a slightly lower base stat total, change their playstyle. They're still perfectly capable of escaping punishing overly aggressive enemies with a In addition to all of this though, the zebras bonus perks. Because this pattern helps break up their when grouped up, attacks against zebras incur Surprisingly, this debuff even applies to less damage from parasites than other similarly In exchange though, the zebra's intelligence zebras are unable to engage in the same team Donkeys are a bit of an outlier, with the They have the highest intelligence stat of play. They can be trained to be a useful party member, of gameplay. And although they're quite capable of dishing mains also tend to favor the bite move in A somewhat poorly optimized build, in my opinion. It's no surprise that despite horses and canid and felid opponents, donkeys end up part due to their smaller size but also because power of a well placed kick. Of the 3 main equine classes, it's a tough I think they're definitely all at least Personally I do think horses take the top low A-tier. See, despite being originally from the north established invasive populations all across that even zebras have difficulty surviving This is the premise for the incredible documentary the descendants of a small group of horses This documentary is available to watch right video. CuriosityStream is an amazing subscription documentaries and nonfiction titles. In addition to Stallions of the Namib Desert, personal favorite documentaries including In addition, every new curiositystream member made by and for creators like myself. I'm currently hard at work putting together series, but in the meantime I also recommend such as the Modern Conflucts series made by It's especially relevant in today's meta. To get access to both of these awesome services dot com slash tierzoo or click the link in Thanks so much for watching, thanks especially good luck out there.