I've been reviewing gaming-related but there is one category of products that After reviewing the FPGBC handheld last year, I but I was shocked by how expensive everything was. So, around a year ago today, I set out with hardware-based approach to retro gaming lives and whether or not we could make it much cheaper. Spoiler alert, it does and we did. In the interest of full transparency, I just year ago ended up with me being a co-owner video is intended to be more of a showcase than a there are plenty of good ones That brings us to the important and how is it any different from a Raspberry or a Rock Pi. Well, there are a lot common. They are all basically SBCs that They all have ample IO and expansion, and have an ARM processor. The ARM processor in but some of these companies have Beyond being able to be used as a Linux computer, projects. Most of them have GPIO headers, with The next thing that all of these have in gaming. And that is especially the case for Pi. The difference between all of these These five bottom boards use software emulation and that FPGA allows it to mimic emulation. It's been widely talked about could give you a better experience but that almost doesn't matter when you are In some cases, MiSTer FPGA could be 3-4 times could do most of what MiSTer can do if That's not the case now, and MiSTER Pi isn't At least with the way that things are now, you have plenty of good options at can go with software emulation, or When it comes to what this hardware can do much to cover in one video. Authentic arcade MiSTer FPGA. There are a lot of arcade games that in a lot of work to reverse engineer the PCBs The amount of quality cores here is of people using MiSTer FPGA boards get an authentic replication of expensive This platform doesn't support every arcade but there are a lot of games here, and new ones are added regularly for free, On top of arcade FPGA cores, there are a ton Personally, I am a big fan of the ao486 core. It's games, and you can get amazing MIDI audio if you But the bread and butter of this platform is is where I spend most of my time when I am system that I still play from my childhood, a few "impossible" cores that ended up being Where this hardware really starts to shine beyond hardware emulation. There are a lot of can enable on top of getting cycle-accurate also make your display look like the original In the case of GBA, we can go ahead and will change our colors and add an LCD SNES is a system that I play a lot on this, and I like to go over to the display-specific like the scanline effect and I like There are SBCs that can run very accurate but when you start adding video filters and increase the performance required to get a similar This platform is all about latency. Once you notice how responsive everything is compared to One of the amazing things about this use original controllers through something connection between your original controller routing and gets your controls sent directly Technically, we could use this tiny board we are going to use a 3v level shifter. Then, we would want to use this with a USB extension After we have this connected, we are on the SNAC option. Then, we are able to original controller with HDMI output. But wait, there's more. We can even use a real Game Boy Color with an OLED screen, real Game Boy as well. With this cable, we can Because our MiSTER is essentially authentic you plan to transfer save files from This is the main device that I use to play I can dump this game file and my save card so I can play on my TV. And I can This process is very easy to do. We are going and then transfer them to our SD card. And just like that, we have transferred over Now we know what this is and what it does, we have the DE10 Nano, which was historically used we have the 1.5 version of MiSTER Pi. And there When I originally decided to sell this board, my goal was to make this as affordable as and I think we've accomplished that. The DE10 Nano board, but it has skyrocketed in price. It now MiSTER Pi goes for $95. So, we are less And when it comes to the feature Pi is the better board for this platform. to PD Type-C for power instead of a DC you can basically use this what almost any When it comes to the middle of the board, we which means we have two sets of GPIO headers on And that's a good thing because it to just sandwich onto the Nano We also made one further improvement on this, which is our USB port. On this board, neither of these will get much use in a USB Hub board that goes on the bottom of this, and On our board, we put a female header it to connect with the male header you to run the Hub board without As I mentioned, it took one year of revisions I have the five board revisions that led started development in November of last year, and to turn into a retail product. We went from 1.0 and this is the board that I originally After we did this version and we thought we moved over to a green board with version After we had this one, there were really only one works as-is, but it didn't have a soldered So, we went to version 1.3 and added USB Type This one had a few minor things to improve, is technically version 1.4, but that luck. There is a version 1.6 of this as well as a 1.7 and a 1.8, but those When it comes to getting this hardware ready things that you can do depending to use. I have a full tutorial but I'm just going to go through a couple of If you don't buy anything else except for but the majority of them will require external it's not really going to be obvious to you why amount of external RAM when you already have 1GB You're going to need something like this, which is a lot smaller than the 1GB of RAM we already All we need to do is take our module and put we can push down to connect we are ready to go with an SD card. Every what we have here, and we can use our If you want some extra stuff, a USB up from here. It gives you 7 USB external power and we already know If we want more functionality, we need a board this board comes with an active the Arduino headers. But we want to use the To install this, all we need to do is line up the Now this is kind of what I would go this USER port right here, which is very finish this up by putting the three boards At this point, we're pretty much ready to go. here. And I actually do use this on a PVM that I we need to install another small module on the And with all of the hardware that we which is way cheaper than the DE10 Nano this exact set of hardware could set simple case, which is kind of insane I think that's the best development to come is now relatively affordable. Depending on how that this hardware is capable of doing for a a way better deal than MiSTer FPGA hardware this platform had far fewer cores when Outside of everything else, the next awesome small community. It's expanding but you are going to find that there are a ton The first thing that you will notice is that there Personally, I went through a ton of option that is available for this board, even more fun than building my own was The best case that I have seen for one from RNSK Skunkwerks. It is put into this thing. It looks like The same creator has another case that looks equally as awesome. This is more like There is also this N64 case that I this on the first day I saw it to I plan to get this made with CNC so it is There's also this awesome laser cut case on above and beyond by modeling the PCBs in the This one I haven't printed out, but I've This is a $6 file for a two-part case that goes I want to highlight a smaller creator printed this out for a board that lives in my We just need to download the files and add so I am using Bambu Studio. The only thing facing down so they have a textured Then it's just a matter of sending this off to the I printed this out with marble PLA, and looking for a case, I highly recommend Now that we've gone through all of that, it's this for most of the last year. But before of the new acrylic shells that finally I don't know why everyone always expects but obviously I have to use a clear blue I like the most out of the ones that I made, fan design isn't meant for retail, but I think The first thing that I like about this You have this simplistic menu here, and you can get in and out of your systems into a system that you play the most Booting into a game is also very fast depending notice it in this video, but I tend to use Anyway, the first system that I want to talk also the one that Taki Jr. plays the most when most impressive system that can run on this, but when I was growing up playing on an SNES. If is way easier for me to pop this board in my bag The next system that I enjoy on this is GBA. in the video and everything runs great. This but it does have some creature comforts Speaking of creature comforts, our that I usually use on things like widescreen hacks. This is an awesome option believe this core is fully cycle-accurate but it is awesome. A lot of my favorite games on this. The only thing I wish we had is 2x native here's a collection of titles so you Sega Saturn is quickly becoming one of the have software emulation options for Saturn, but and the experience can be hit or miss state of this isn't perfect, and there are some will give you a slight bump in performance, I spoke about the awesome community around this example of that. There is a group that releases collection of Amiga games packaged with a nice box. I like this collection so much that I added The same group behind AmigaVision created was pleasantly surprised by how well DOS games run comparable experience, this is just a bit better to Windows 95 of MiSTer FPGA, but the games from That leaves us with the final system that I want by the same individual that created most of the be the impossible core. Even after the developer improved things further. I believe it is now at games that I like to play on this system work very Anyway, that's about all I have for this look at in September, and I have been waiting this entire FPGA gaming are both much better than I imagined. or how good it was, I would go and look at the go in the opposite direction. At the price that able to not only join the community but get to It really does live up to the hype. If you want to grab one of these, this Retro Remake website. As a cool bonus, and $100 off in this video for anyone If you enjoyed this video and want to see another, handheld from last year that sparked this