Why are French people so thin when the I live in Paris, and that's the number I make food videos. So, let's get breakfast So, one of the first reasons people always think that, just like a lot of French people, I mostly shops around me, and it's super easy to shop for for example, I just bought my bread after my run, people do that because there's an abundance of big and small. There's at least one market a week, is literally all around us. Like this bread that And by the way, if you were expecting me to eat a more as a treat in France and not something you more about our relationship to treats and sugar French food is very filling. Like, I which is two to four slices of bread with a and I'm not hungry until lunchtime. And my good-quality fats like butter, olive oil. And delicious--but it also keeps me full for longer. Like, it was the basis for every meal growing up, and veggies are super high quality and tasty right next to me, there's this super cute street stores, and it's so easy to get delicious, Also, every time I eat breakfast in a video, that the portions are too small, but that's just compared to the rest of the world. I used to live I was so excited at how much food they I can only buy food once and eat twice!&quot; That's now I'm used to it, so I just eat everything they And another reason people always give when they thin--is supposedly our active lifestyle. walking and biking. There's a lot of public especially in Paris or in any big city. I woven into our daily life. But to be fully the main reasons why French people are so thin. and negative--that I want to talk to you about. while I make my lunch is cooking. So actually, of their meals from scratch. For example, takeout. We actually didn't even have a microwave delivery to my parents' house was when my American in France is really common, and eating simple So if you've watched my food videos in the past, restaurant meals, and obviously, that's not how actually super simple, very basic, with a lot I prefer it. I couldn't eat at the restaurant good homemade food most of the time to be happy. friends over for dinner--is super, super common. You always invite your friends over for dinner, and eating overall is a more social experience. working. But growing up, one thing I did with seated at the dinner table, and everyone eating and dinner, obviously, but also And even now, as an adult, if there's someone and I will share the same thing. We will find So I think, like me, a lot of French people are it's not just something you do to fuel your body; share good conversations with people, catch you really want to eat slow because there to pace yourself to finish at the same time as dinner table unless everyone else is done. you today, there are three main meals you eat when they happen at very specific times. Like breakfast between 12:30 and 1:30 p.m., and apparently, this study. Like, it's crazy how much people it's around 8 p.m. with your family or with It is super weird for me to not eat at the dating Bobby and I met his family, since they're meal times where people would eat at the same they felt they were hungry, and I was so confused. know if it was lunch or dinner; nothing made sense are we on right now?&quot; And when Bobby came to my My parents wanted to be nice; they actually lunch, and dinner with different dishes. and you always know when your next meal is Now I'm used to the US way of eating, so I just conditioned by my French education. But it feels you're going to have a nice meal. I don't know, And by the way, for lunch, I'm not only tomatoes, mushroom, and chicken, but if I'm a loaf of bread waiting for me and a bunch of And by the way, if you're traveling to you check the restaurant's opening hours restaurants will be closed outside of the you're going to need to have data on your phone, Airalo is the sponsor of today's video, and they eSIMs in more than 200 countries and regions solution, which means you don't have to get an you can just install your SIM card at home and data right away, which is so much easier. Also, during your trip to Europe, they even have a including Belgium, the UK, or Switzerland, which been personally using Airalo for a few years, not having to plan everything in advance anymore do a bit of last-minute research. I recommend using the link in the description. Don't forget Alright, so now let's talk about food education. a very important part of a kid's upbringing, you try a bunch of different foods to educate when I was a kid, my first house was just next delicious goat cheese--I was maybe 2 years old. apparently, I was obsessed with this cheese. very quickly. When I was a kid, I obviously liked be offended if I was at a meal and there were like with, I don't know, pasta shells or something the adult meal, and I feel that's a pretty shared the same thing for the whole table. People, you and you just make something that fits everyone. manners, which are very important. So, being able skill, especially when you're a kid and you want so that you can go to restaurants, and this means structure that's very important of breakfast, everyone. Also, from a very young age, kids are making a salad, making pasta, that type of stuff. points. So, we are all trained to like that And here, we're getting a bit into the darker big part of why French people are so thin, because Like, if you're seen as being weird, you will not example. I know a person--and here, obviously, be recognized--who has terrible table manners. it has made me nauseous; it was so bad. feel that way and feel that his manners are upbringing. But that's not the only thing where Like, for example, substitutions are not always without onions, for example. Overeating, it's lot of peer pressure on that. And also, in the I'm joking, obviously--but if you don't eat with you have to share your meal with your colleagues. like a corporate job in France, and I ate at to eat with them. So that's what I did. So as tightly enforced, sometimes unconsciously. France is that it is okay in France to tell where my boyfriend Bobby's from and where I've things about their bodies. Like, you cannot go pounds.&quot; People will not want to talk to you after Well, in France, you can actually do that, and a I don't want to know. I don't want people but people will do it, and people will comment Like, for example, I remember a summer where I and everyone wanted to tell me. And this didn't care, it kind of makes you watch a bit more what and your body. Obviously, I'm not a French man, I do feel there's a lot of pressure to be because not everything is so dark, is that than in other countries. There's more an idea more healthy approach to eating in general. so excited at first because there are so many healthy ice cream, all of this stuff. So, &quot;This is amazing! I'm going to eat unlimited ice is a trap. It just gets you used to making and I quickly got fed up with them because, and the diet version is actually not Like, for example, let's take a cake. France They're very sweet, they're very fatty. like a Sunday lunch or a birthday or a special I feel, and I think a lot of people feel this way to time is actually more special than having, you feel having this idea of, like, special meals that Like, for example, with my extended family, when we eat from 12 to 6 p.m., so we're eating that's a special meal. We wouldn't want that everyday life, I would get fed up. Those meals, I consider them special meals. It's not I would feel super unbalanced and really unhappy. on that instead of labeling certain foods as bad, food. It's just a piece of cake; it's not going be beating themselves up if they eat specific and I do feel that, as a whole--and obviously, a uniform country--France does that pretty well. me, you should watch one of those