Hi there, welcome back to the channel. So today is about the three biggest mistakes Number one is not taking advantage of Auto-refresh that you might report outdated data because you is a setting that automatically refreshes your show you where that is. So over here in Excel, I'm just going to go ahead and quickly insert a some fields, add in Campaign Name and Units Sold. go to PivotTable Options, Data, and place file.&quot; This makes sure that your Pivot Table if your colleagues go ahead and add data to this Table is going to refresh automatically. By the doesn't show up, it's likely because you aren't another common mistake that people make. What is to add validation checks to make sure that Now, I go into much more detail about Pivot Table Essentials, but I'll tell Next mistake is not using slicers to filter familiar with Pivot Tables, you know that slicers reports and filter them. If you're not familiar one. So in this Pivot Table, we are summarizing to add a filter for the Responsible Person. I'm add it as a slicer. These slicers are right here. everyone to the same row, so let's just adjust Currently, this slicer is connected to this values here change to reflect the units sold for I get these values, but this Pivot Table over Let's say I want it to be filtered. I want to click on this Pivot Table, go to PivotTable place a checkmark here, and OK this. Now this Okay, so with one slicer, you can filter multiple this from the point of view of the slicer. If you select Report Connections, you can see the Now, one thing I've been itching to do row labels and get proper labels here, and adjust the report layout to be Microsoft was thinking to add row labels Next mistake is wasting time writing information from other tables so that you news is there is a faster way without about to show you is the fastest way. Here we've just received detailed information about I have this table called Campaign Details. It goal, whether it was to drive sales, to maximize the status of the campaign, the start date, and what I need to do is to create a report based What a lot of people tend to do is go over here, and bring over this information from here and do that--just leave your tables where they but this time place a checkmark to &quot;Add this data we get a new Pivot Table inserted on a new sheet. so notice now I have this grouping enabled. What Pivot. So I can add in my Units Sold. But where I'm going to switch to All because in this view, So I have my campaign details here, I'm going to this. Now, notice the numbers here aren't and I get a message here telling me that a can create it on my own, or I can let Excel Now it is detecting, notice the numbers changed. this, or I can go to Manage Relationships and see go to edit this. We can see my first table that column and it has connected it to my second table, created a relationship behind the scenes between I have both of my tables here and I can make clicks from this marketing data table and let's can combine fields from multiple tables and create Now, I want to keep this video short, but a bonus default look of Pivot Tables, and they don't take a look at this default Pivot Table--the That extra effort makes a huge difference. say you're dating and your potential girlfriend You don't have time to prepare anything, so you like Hofer, Aldi, whatever that might be in your you're not going to put the food right? You're going to throw away that packaging, take the food and present it nicely. Do going to love you. And you can achieve that with Inside the course that we just released, which Basics to Mastery--we already have together with tons of practice files. You'll so that you have multiple different ways also learn how to create interactive dashboards So basically, what the mistakes come down Table features and then they rely on our new Pivot Table Essentials course is to how to use Pivot Tables the right way and likely going to face along the way. You'll takes you from basics to mastery. It includes because that's important. It also has lots If you want to be fully confident in the way course. The link to it is below. I'd be super ground up. Thank you for being here, thank you Pivot Table mistakes, share them with us