Translator: Giada Marianucci People come to see me These could be personal problems. It could be a family problem. It could be a career challenge, or it could be an organizational crisis. But they come to see me when they haven't been able to figure out The good news is I absolutely love The key is ... moving past a problem doesn't mean we get to a place If we do this right, moving past a problem means that we are more strong, more whole, more the person we were ever meant to be There have been some key shifts in the art and science of helping people over the last 30 years, and I want to share Let's begin with two different people, I want you to see if you can and how they can move forward. Let's take Debra. Debra is very discouraged. She has the same problem every day. She starts her morning Perhaps, you know the &quot;mommy pledge.&quot; It goes like this: &quot;I am not going to yell (Laughter) But Debra sees her kids as very difficult. They refuse to eat they won't wear the clothes and when it comes time these kids are kicking and screaming. So her day becomes but a verbal battle. Inevitably, she loses her patience, she drops her filter, and she starts screaming things She says things like: and, &quot;What kind of monsters are you? and, &quot;I can't stand you.&quot; Well, she puts the kids to bed, She says to herself, &quot;What kind of monster and, &quot;Why are my kids so bad?&quot; Well, let's take a look at Keith. Keith is a hardworking professional. Shows up everyday ready for work. He's smart, he's diligent. He likes his coworkers, But for the third year in a row, and this year, his company So, Keith says, &quot;My situation has gone to now I'm really afraid. He asks me, &quot;What if my boss &quot;What if I get let go &quot;What's going to happen The key feature of people who remain stuck is that they are using They are asking problem-focused questions, questions like: What's wrong with me? What's wrong with them? What's going to happen You know what happens We get problem-focused answers. We know this from research: If you ask me why you have problems, I might just go and figure all the things you're doing that are contributing to I might even go digging back and think of all the different that have led to you having this problem. And, while this might be very informative, what we're going to find out Right? We run two risks here. The first: You're going By the way, this problem not so unique to you. Secondly, perhaps more problematically: This is going to shed very little light What's more, we now know from a variety over the last three decades that talking about a problem for too long not only isn't helpful; it's harmful. Across different spectrums, Now, it's absolutely true that to get past a problem, we have to name it out loud, we have to say the words, and we need to get validated That is a crucial first step. However, there is a point We might call this a neuroscience, wiring neurons associated We might say from behavioral science that we are now conditioning the very behaviors We might say, biochemically, that we are just firing and marinating in them. Not only is that harmful to you, but if you understand that's not helpful to anybody around you. More compelling than this If you've got the privilege to study large populations of people and you try to look for the single, greatest predictor of who's as a result of experiencing too often, what you're to find is that it isn't even related It's related to who stays stuck So research is going to tell us something that there is not a single tragedy, that definitely spells doom You've seen this, you've seen and some of them have Not only just alright, but strong, You've also seen people They've experienced a problem and somehow they're still hung up on it. But what if I tell you we can examine who gets stuck? This is a cautionary tale, We can examine what are the procedures, of people that move forward, despite What if I were to tell you it's learnable, and it's universal. Let's take a look at what it sounds like. I call it: Turn, Learn and Move Forward. That's the words I use for it. So, if you are experiencing What do I mean by too long? Your indicator that you're is you are becoming somebody You're weaker, you're more afraid, you're more desperate, This is how we know we're stuck too long. If you become stuck for too long, what we need to do then and turn in a different direction Be an avid, agile learner The good news is there are hundreds, of empirically backed strategies All you have to do and you will move forward. Let's take a look. First step. Let's say you've been stuck for too long I say get moving and get on the arrow. What is the arrow? Here's a tip. The arrow is about 180deg the opposite of whatever you're experiencing You get moving and you get started. Pick an adjective or an experience Start making that your goal. A lot of my clients come in and know exactly Then, I say to them, &quot;So, what do you want? &quot;Well, I don't want to have this.&quot; Alright. Well, we can't study until we know what we want. So, let's name it Let's take Debra. Debra needs to start learning how to redirect her children Is this learnable? She needs her children Is that learnable? Yes, it is. Keith needs to learn how to get recognized Is that learnable? But, guess what, he can learn it, The next thing we need to do is watch out This is when we say things like: &quot;I have good kids,&quot; &quot;I have bad kids.&quot; &quot;My boss loves me,&quot; &quot;My boss hates me.&quot; This is unproductive. It doesn't point and will keep you stuck. Get on the arrow. I don't know anybody I don't know anybody We're all on the arrow, becoming a little bit better, So we want to say: Do I yell a lot at my kids? I want to learn how to be Keith says, &quot;What do I need to do? I'm going to get myself invited where I share my talents out loud.&quot; This is what we want to make happen. We will experience bumps. I laugh, my clients say, &quot;This is not a bump; And I say, &quot; It's a bump. Right? Now, when we experience a bump, what we need to make sure we watch out for is the idea that it's the end, it's the end of us, it's complete ruin. Better watch out I am aware that the problem might not feel like a bump. I am also aware, just like you are, that there have been people that you know that have not done well I do know that. But I want you to understand That is an option, No matter how big your bump is, we go on see it as a bump that not only we can move forward from, Alright! I know somebody is going and say, &quot;But wait, You clearly don't know my teenagers There's going be at least three hang-ups that are going to keep you The first is ego. You know what ego says? Ego says, &quot;Alright, I know you've studied and observed who can move on, but, you know what, is so special, it's so unique, that I'm not going Alright, so all those thousands of people, mine was handcrafted by the universe So, I'm just going to stay here, The next hang-up is going to be fear. Fear really has the same voice Fear says, &quot;It's not going to work, it won't happen, I can't get better. I am basically in a catastrophe, and I'm going to wind up That's where fear goes, Unless you've kids, then it's: Not only are we going to wind up there, but, apparently, that nobody ever gets out of. It is permanent, That's what fear tell... Is it? Apparently, we're all still here, so fear lies, right? The next hang-up is going to be pride. And it sounds a little bit like this: &quot;I don't need to turn and learn. I'm doing everything right. I show up every day and, apparently, I've hit this wall. So, I'm just going to wait Those kids, they'd just better learn Or: &quot;That boss, that boss I'm just going to have until something else changes.&quot; What do we say to pride? &quot;Listen up, pride. First of all, if you're doing it shouldn't hurt quite this bad. Second of all, don't ever put power Alright? If you have something less the person you were meant to be, it is time to turn And I guarantee you, It just looks a little different And if you have the humility to turn and be a learner, amazing things are going to happen. Let's go back here. Persist. Anything you're ever going is going to require persistence. Right? Sometimes my clients will get &quot;Alright, alright, I'm going I'll show up to work And the world sort of sneezes and keeps on going. Right? So, persisting once is about as effective &quot;Do you know what you need You need to tie that. You're welcome.&quot; That's not what we do. I've seen you, I know you can persist. I have seen you get down on one knee, and get up in that little kid's face and start talking bunny ears, and you're going to do this Until when? Until desired results are achieved. That's what we're talking about. Anything important that you ever need And you're going do this thing until you get desired results. Now, here's the most amazing thing This is what I absolutely love about Do you realize what we're You're going to overcome that problem that you thought was going to be And you're going to be able Not just unafraid of that problem, but you're going to face life Because, while the individual the little steps that we take might vary, the process stays universal, What we're going to do is say to you: &quot;You know what, no matter what crops up, you're going to get and be more the person Because what's going to happen is you're going to turn, and, most of all, you're going to commit Thank you. (Applause)