It's 2024, and now that Apple Vision Pro is out I want to answer the question a How does it compare to the Meta Quest 3? The number one advantage of the Quest 3 over The Quest 3 weighs 515 g, whereas the Apple depending on the light seal and headband actually sound like much, when I wear let's say, 20 minutes or so, I definitely these headsets, the worse the Vision The Quest 3's facial interface design is also less like, 20 plus light seals for the Apple Vision standard one. Now, in theory, Apple's approach seal that conforms to your unique face shape. is measuring people's faces to fit the correct everyone. With a Vision Pro, you need to scan the correct size, but myself and other users I've doesn't seem to be as accurate after people get a Coming in at the number two advantage of the come with the headset and allow you to play all precise input mechanism than using the hand Apple uses eye tracking for selection, which Meta has of hand tracking not always forcing you though I found theirs is not as accurate as the the Apple Vision Pro does support wireless necessarily play all the games you'd want to with console games yet without some sort of third-party Moving on to the number three advantage of the platform has been out way longer than Apple's even more mixed reality games so far. But I'd gaming is how games are actually designed for They're not just normal 2D games being shown with virtual things built around it, like a lot make you feel like you're inside the video game, about and why you would want to strap on one of console. Now, Vision Pro does have some spatial that take advantage of its spatial computing but you are still limited to using your eyes and the Vision Pro can bring a virtual Mac window into Mac and bring it into a giant virtual display ergonomic constraints, this isn't something you'd And this brings me to the number which is its more open operating system. outside of Meta's App Store, unlike with the you can sideload apps onto it using apps onto it like PlayStation Remote The number five advantage of the Quest is its lenses compared to Apple Vision Pro. And watching content on a dark screen in the Vision at the bottom half of the lenses. Now, that's reflections or glare; it's just not nearly The sixth advantage of the Quest 3: you can wear each side of the facial interface device to glasses. Apple Vision Pro requires you to buy prescription, which costs around an extra $100 The seventh advantage of the Quest 3 over the add up to three additional Meta accounts whose design doesn't allow for multi-user you'd still need to get different light seals for The Quest 3 is also just easier to give put it on and adjust the lens distance. like you need to do on the Vision Pro, how Apple Vision Pro automatically adjusts The eighth advantage Quest 3 has over Apple into the headset itself, making it less Alright, and the last advantage the Quest 3 Apple Vision Pro starts at a staggering $3,500 US, 3 can be configured up to 512 GB, whereas the So, that's the Meta Quest 3 and its advantages. right after a quick word from this I've relied on Pocket Casts for the past several without it. Pocket Casts comes with an array of where you can seamlessly switch between devices Pocket Casts is available on almost every has a lot of tech devices in different ecosystems. like customizable skip buttons and trim silence, podcast. And not only can you download podcast to download new episodes automatically and be to organize podcasts with filters. For example, news and politics. Plus, I love how much control Up Next queue and in what order, but the app variety of themes and customizable buttons at the icon to a different design, like Pocket Cats, customizations, and wide availability, Pocket experience. So, what are you waiting for? the link in the description below. And thanks Alright, the number one advantage Vision Pro has displays. They're the size of a postage stamp and The displays are key for so many things that make like overall graphics. Everything looks sharp Quest 3 is at 720 resolution and the Vision Pro especially for movies and immersive videos. Now, immersive videos on Quest, because of its screen Quest display, that experience just doesn't TV. And the depth effect and camera angles it just doesn't sell the illusion that you're video is about in the way that Apple's does. I being able to watch a movie on this thing a theater or on your television, though the experience and some people will not be able to get accustomed to the weight for long though I do have another one on order. These virtual environments feel so real and make all and it gives you a similar perspective to what the performance overall on the Vision Pro is much whereas with the Quest 3, sometimes apps do that if you're not careful. So Apple definitely The second advantage Vision Pro has over the OS operating system. Your iCloud photos just show things like that. It's easier to bring a Mac which can actually do multiple Mac windows, though more glitchy in my experience. And because and I could actually use this Mac window to work point have I found myself actually wanting to order to get productivity tasks done, outside do so. Sure, it looks cool being able to drag likely seen on social about these headsets, but that weighs at least 500 g to your face, need to use it for that can take advantage of I think most people will stick with the computers ecosystem advantages with this headset are things forth to the Vision Pro without having to go you have regular access to tons of regular things like the keyboard and mouse paired with which isn't really something you can do on the to launch a game or something, you'll need to Coming in at the number three advantage of the Quest can do similar hand tracking Apple's is much better and more precise. where you can drag windows and how many Coming in at number four is sound. Now, the Vision Pro's is noticeably better, The number five Apple Vision Pro advantage is Pro first came out and people got to put it on they were like, &quot;Wait, this doesn't look noise.&quot; But to anyone else who's on the Quest 3 or even the Quest Alright, number six: spatial photos and videos. can look at stuff in; it also doubles as probably there. Now, the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max can also I found the perspective and depth effect to be Vision Pro. The only downside, of course, with being you have to wear it while doing that, which want to be the person at the Holiday Gathering while the Quest 3 can't take spatial photos Meta did announce support for Apple's format, Quest. Though I found the depth effect to be even The number seven advantage of the Vision Pro actually scan your iris in your eye, which tech is just as convenient as Face ID is on an but compared to Vision Pro, it's pretty so much so that I've just turned it off on the And coming in at the number eight advantage and build quality. Even diehard Quest fans are looks better than Apple Vision Pro. Apple's Vision Pro look futuristic with its metal, glass, looks a bit more like a toy, and the three bit alien. Though to be fair, you're not really the build quality of the Quest 3, while I the Vision Pro, it's a bit more finicky for to make room for glasses or removing the compared to the Vision Pro's light seal, which So, those are the advantages I found so far than the Meta Quest 3, and should I even be given the cost difference between them is so much? absolutely shouldn't be. But even Mark Zuckerberg, and of course, he found the Vision Pro was better. was better. He argues the Quest 3 isn't just a he have a point? He might actually. Now, before let me explain why. Because you're strapping you're only going to want to do that for own. While Vision Pro's graphics and displays are immersive videos, everything else with it - using iPad apps, and having multiple windows open I already own. Now, for the things that I would like immersive gaming and fitness experiences, technologically superior and their immersive just too limited right now for this to even be a and fitness. That's where the Quest 3 really I think the Quest 3 is the better product right as time goes on and Apple and Meta further develop if you want to see more content I've already can see those videos here. And if you want to see two headsets, plus my upcoming review of the Meta and a form factor people could definitely get make sure you subscribe to the channel. For 6