Russia, 1812. On the plains of Borodino, Napoleon's invading army launches one of the bloodiest battles in history. A Russian aristocrat, Pierre Bezukhov, suddenly finds himself fighting for his life. &quot;Beside himself with terror Pierre jumped up and ran back to the battery. A thin, sallow-faced, perspiring man in a blue uniform rushed on him, sword in hand, shouting something. Instinctively, Pierre seized the man (a French officer)...when just above their heads, terrible and low, a cannon-ball whistled, and it seemed to Pierre that the French officer's head had been torn off, so swiftly had he ducked it." But Pierre is not real. He's a leading character in the sweeping epic novel by Leo Tolstoy, War and Peace. Many, many writers will list War and Peace as a work that has influenced them or is their favorite work of literature. Why is that? Because I think it's the standard, it's the standard to which they aspire. Tolstoy, by writing War and Peace, transformed what the novel could be. War and Peace forever enlarged the limits of fiction. And its author, Leo Tolstoy, was just as vast and ambitious and brilliant as his book. He became a great inspiration morally. I think equally he exists in the Western and in the Russian tradition as a moral thinker and as the greatest creator of Russian prose. You know, this is a man who remade himself over and over and over again in his career. He never rested on his laurels. He never took anything for granted. He was really a seeker after truth. 19th century Russia was the largest, most undeveloped and undemocratic country in Europe. Throughout the century, the Russian empire see-sawed back and forth between reform and repression, modernization and tradition. Tolstoy really represented and lived through the entire 19th century. He was born when Russia was still a serf-owning society. That meant that a very small percentage of reasonably wealthy people owned a large portion of the serfs, the peasants. Tolstoy was born into, you know, what could be described as the very highest circles of Russian society. He was a Count. His relatives were princes and other counts and countesses, an almost unimaginable level of luxury, servants to take care of his every need, you know, from the moment he woke up until the moment he went to bed. Orphaned as a young child and raised by relatives, at age 19, Tolstoy inherited the family estate, Yasnaya Polyana, and its 330 serfs. With his wealth, he could have done nothing his entire life. Instead he became one of the most prolific and revered writers and thinkers ever. Tolstoy lived in a world of extremes but what would propel him forward were the extremes within himself. He was very dissatisfied with himself, you know. He had a very sensual nature. This is such an elemental split in Tolstoy. He was a person who really loved earthly pleasures. But at the same time he had a hyper-developed conscience that made him suffer. So you had this, this, I suppose everybody has this, this split between spirit and flesh. But that split was very, very extreme in Tolstoy. Like many other young aristocrats, Tolstoy gambled and lost vast amounts of money. He drank and visited prostitutes. Unlike many others, afterwards, he was wracked with guilt. As the young Leo Tolstoy wrestled with himself, he began to keep a diary. He first found time to write while being treated in a hospital for venereal disease. His diary recorded his sins and his resolutions to do better. He wrote: &quot;Disgusting! Girls, stupid music, heat, cigarette smoke, girls, vodka, wild shrieks, girls, girls, girls! ...But absolutely the last time..." And his first works of fiction actually grow directly out of almost a diary view of the world. His first work is called Childhood. And it's a novel that depicts the world from the point of view of a child very convincingly. Another early book, The Cossacks, came from Tolstoy's experience as an officer in the Crimean War. He used a fictional character, Olenin, to describe his own feelings. "At the age of 18, he was free, as only rich young Russians...who had lost their parents at an early age, could be. Neither physical nor moral fetters of any kind existed for him; he could do as he liked, lacking nothing, and bound by nothing." This is freedom. This is what - this is one of the great experiments of this novel - what is youthful freedom like? And Tolstoy goes on to say that despite the fact that he loved this freedom, he had this freedom and he loved it, he was just looking for something to sacrifice this freedom to. But nothing came along, nothing was good enough. Tolstoy was in his mid-20s when his early stories announced a powerful new voice to the world. But in the 1850s, it was a tiny, exclusive world. Only the aristocrats could read, and all the writers - a handful of men -- knew each other. Ivan Turgenev took the lead in welcoming Tolstoy. Tolstoy, when he comes back, he leaves the Crimea, he leaves the army and returns to St. Petersburg and he's a star, everyone knows him, he's invited to all the salons, all the other writers want to meet him, it's a clique. And if you look at those pictures, you know, you have these pictures of Tolstoy standing with all the other famous writers of the time, and he's so out of place. Brilliant and arrogant, Tolstoy took pleasure in insulting Turgenev and the others. He could not take part in anything he wasn't leading. He turned his back on the social worlds of St. Petersburg and Moscow, and headed to his estate, Yasnaya Polyana, which he literally ruled. Tolstoy would spend most of the rest of his life there. But he was lonely. He needed a wife. He didn't have a family life, he didn't have a mother and he was dreaming from a very, very early age what it would be like to have a wife and children and how ideal the relationship between the husband and wife would be. Sofya Behrs, daughter of a royal court physician, won Tolstoy's heart. She was 17 and he was 34. At his insistence, they married one week after he proposed. But first he made her read his diaries, a chronicle of almost two decades of drinking, gambling, and illicit sex. She was horrified, but she forgave him. The great epic marriage of Leo Nikolayevich and Sophie Andreyevna, a marriage that was marked by deep passion. There is no other major 19th century writer who made a pact with his wife at the beginning of their marriage to keep mutual diaries, that is both would write diaries that are both intimate to each and at the same time available to each. Reading and writing diaries and fiction would form a cornerstone to their half-century long, passionate and ultimately tragic marriage. Tolstoy took his young bride to Yasnaya Polyana, 140 miles from her family in Moscow. Nine months later, their first child was born. There would be 12 more. Marriage and family settled him in a way that nothing else had, and Tolstoy began the most creative period of his life. He would write steadily for six years. The result was War and Peace. None of Tolstoy's earlier work could have predicted the book's range and depth. "On the twelfth of June, 1812, the forces of Western Europe crossed the Russian frontier and war began, that is, an event took place counter to human reason and to all of human nature.&quot; Some 1,700 pages long, War and Peace combines the huge sprawling story of Russia's victory over Napoleon with the daily lives of several aristocratic Russian families. When he finished writing, Tolstoy announced that War and Peace was not a novel. We have to remember what Tolstoy meant by novel when he said War and Peace wasn't one. It was the neat European novel These are novels that have a fixed number of characters where events occur according to a certain emotional trajectory; you don't introduce things that won't later pay off, your women usually get married or die - again that's the conventional cliche and you have men who pursue careers. What it is that makes War and Peace so amazing is that the people you really care about, the people that don't get killed off like Pierre Bezukhov, like Natasha Rostova, they outgrew career ambitions amazingly quickly. What they become are spiritual searchers. &quot;Natasha was going to her first grand ball. She...had been in a fever of excitement and activity all day... She entered the hall, took off her fur cloak and mounted the stairs... Only then did she remember how she must behave at a ball, and tried to assume the majestic air she considered indispensable for a girl on such an occasion. But, fortunately for her, she felt her eyes growing misty, she saw nothing clearly, her pulse beat a hundred to the minute and the blood throbbed at her heart... She moved on almost fainting from excitement and trying with all her might to conceal it. And this was the very attitude that became her best.&quot; Tolstoy spends almost no time describing the physical appearance of his characters. Instead, he just mentions a few facts that are just exactly the perfect facts to embody this person in your brain. The trick, as it were, the way Tolstoy's realism, vivid realism, works is that we find ourselves agreeing with Tolstoy about those intimate feelings, and we think to ourselves, or feel to ourselves, "How does he know that?" Tolstoy is known as a great master of psychological description. He is able to subdivide human emotional reaction to an event, to an idea, in such a way that the actual pace of the words on the page reproduces the pace of the development of the emotion in the human psyche. In other words as you are reading, the very act of reading reproduces the sequence of events emotionally that you were experiencing or that the character's experiencing. It was Tolstoy's own life, and those unfolding around him at Yasnaya Polyana, that inspired him. Throughout his writing career, he would use, reuse, and transform autobiographical events, incidents, and relationships into art. The character most like Tolstoy in War and Peace is Pierre Bezukhov, a wealthy count who sows his wild oats as a young man, then searches for meaning as he grows older. &quot;Pierre no longer suffered moments of despair, hypochondria, and disgust with life but the malady that had formerly found expression in such acute attacks was driven inwards and never left him for a moment. 'What for? Why? What is going on in the world?' he would ask himself in perplexity several times a day... 'Nothing is trivial, and nothing is important, it's all the same -- only to save oneself from it as best one can,' thought Pierre.&quot; The book follows Pierre for decades, through national crises and everyday events, until he finally finds happiness in family life. Though War and Peace is celebrated today, its first readers, who read serialized installments in journals as Tolstoy was writing it, found its scale and structure confusing. None of the readers of the journals in which the serialized portions appeared knew when it was over. People thought that entirely transitory characters were in fact the real heroes and if the novel had stopped there, they would've become the real heroes but in fact there was no automatic closure principle in the realistic novel as Tolstoy understood it; there could always be another chapter added. War and Peace is interrupted at points by long philosophical digressions that have absolutely sometimes nothing to do with the events, so you'd be reading the story of Natasha and then the chapter will end and you'll turn the page and there'll be a long philosophical essay. Part of life is thinking about life and it was fitting that no only would there be this description of life but there would also be these abstract reflections culled from the world that he had created so it was supposed to be all of life, and therefore every genre. War and Peace, in both its stories and essays, ultimately found meaning not in the great events, issues, and people of history but in the small activities of everyday living. In a letter, Tolstoy wrote: "The aim of an artist is not to solve a problem irrefutably, but to make people love life in all its countless, inexhaustible manifestations." During the six years Tolstoy spent researching and writing War and Peace, Sofya not only gave birth four times, but kept the household going so that he could write. She was a very, very efficient manager and organizer, clearing the decks so that Tolstoy could do his work. She provided the material conditions so that he could go on and produce 90 volumes of writing, which we have today. But Sofya did more: she actively helped him. Beginning with War and Peace, she wrote, by hand, clean manuscript copies for him to revise, a process that, along with their mutual diaries, bound the couple even more closely together. Sofya copied the entire manuscript for War and Peace seven times. By the end of that process, Sofya and family life had become the absolute center of Tolstoy's world. He would make them the center of his next book, Anna Karenina. In Anna Karenina, his family life and his observations of Sophia Andreyevna and her family, added immeasurably to his understanding of the female character and of whole sides of life that he had really not known intimately before. Anna Karenina, finished in 1877, tells the overlapping stories of two families, one happy, one unhappy. With its more conventional subject and structure, it was quickly hailed as a perfect novel. In Anna Karenina, the Tolstoy-like character, Levin, asks 'What am I? And where am I? And why am I here?' Tolstoy supplied Levin with answers, but after devoting five years to the novel, he could no longer find answers for himself, and fell into a deep depression. He said: "I wrote everything into Anna Karenina, and nothing was left over." When you're this kind of an autobiographical writer, you're always mining yourself. as you use the material of your own experience and your own soul you become a bit alienated from that material so you're constantly using up that precious spontaneity of your soul. Tolstoy's despair went much deeper than creative exhaustion. In his diary, he wrote how suddenly everything that had been important to him no longer mattered. He wrote: &quot;Very well, you will be more famous than Gogol or Pushkin or Shakespeare or Moliere, or than all the writers in the world. And what of it? And I could find no reply at all.&quot; After Anna Karenina he became disgusted with writing that first of all dealt with just profligate society ladies having affairs, which is what he came to feel Anna Karenina was but also writing that entertained, that catered to the sort of consumerist or escapist appetite in readers. It was a reflex against the theme and the style of the Russian novel that he himself had perfected. Despite his newfound contempt for writing, Tolstoy faced his personal crisis the only way he knew how. He wrote. The resulting, deeply personal work was called A Confession. He talks about how he undergoes a spiritual crisis and even though he's a world famous writer and well respected, and has a family who loves him, he's tempted to commit suicide. He says he has to hide his shoelaces so he doesn't hang himself. And he gives up hunting so that he doesn't have the temptation of shooting himself. And then he begins to read the gospels and finds in them truths that he thought he always knew but had never really understood. Even in the wild days of his youth, Tolstoy had been drawn to Christianity. At age 50, he decided he found the answer to his spiritual crisis in Jesus's Sermon on the Mount. He announced, "I alone understand the doctrine of Jesus." Tolstoy kept his Christianity simple: no miracles, no Son of God, no rituals or institutions, just words of wisdom to live by. And he would choose the words. This is a man who in a deeply conservative religious nation decides to rewrite the gospels. He had a different idea of spiritual accomplishment than many reformers. You didn't topple governments. The only thing that mattered was how you toppled your own weaknesses. That is, you had to begin and end, and that "and end" is the crucial phrase here, begin and end with individual human reformation. Known by then as one of Russia's greatest writers, people paid attention to everything Tolstoy said, wrote, and did. In the early 1880s, he set out to practice what he preached, and began to radically transform every part of his life. I think he began to understand that he might be able to accomplish more in his own person than he could accomplish through his works. And it was part of what led to the great tragedy at the end of his life. He began to have to be an actor. He gave up wearing fine clothes and went around in his idea of peasant costume. He plowed fields, he carried his own water, he chopped fire wood, and a lot of people criticized him for this sort of grandstanding this playing at being a peasant. I think Tolstoy's motivation was very sincere, I think that he really did feel that there was a tight connection between the sanctity of one's soul and the simplicity of one's life. In articles, letters, and booklets, he condemned tobacco, alcohol, and eating meat, and one by one, gave those habits up himself. He publicly opposed all war, the military draft, and capital punishment. Critical of institutions of any kind, he called for an end to private property - including his own. As an anarchist, and he was an anarchist in the true philosophical sense of the word, he said, "I don't have to obey any law I don't want to obey, because I didn't participate in the making of that law." Tolstoy was extremely radical in this. Tolstoy insisted that his family join him in a vow of poverty or be left behind. The changes in him terrified Sofya. "It was 20 years ago when I was young and happy that I started writing the story of my love for Lyovochka in this diary... Today he shouted at the top of his voice that his dearest wish was to leave his family. I shall carry the memory of that heart-felt, heart-rending cry of his to my grave.&quot; Tolstoy wanted Sofya, his Sofie, to go along with him and she couldn't. Having become the wife he wanted her to be in the 1860s, she couldn't just throw it all away and become the wife he wanted her to be in the 1880s. He wanted them to live like peasants. She felt that she had the children to worry about. If Sofya refused to follow Tolstoy's teachings, others eagerly volunteered. Disciples arrived and wouldn't leave. One, an aristocrat named Vladimir Chertkov, would become his closest friend, and set up a publishing house to spread the word of Tolstoy. Chertkov saw Sofya as an obstacle. He actively encouraged Tolstoy's estrangement from her. By the late 1800s, thanks partly to Chertkov, Tolstoy had become more famous as a prophet than as a novelist. People around the world read his booklets and articles. A young Indian lawyer named Mohandas K. Gandhi exchanged letters with him. Inspired by Tolstoy's pacifist message, Gandhi developed a strategy of non-violent resistance that eventually freed India from Great Britain. But most Tolstoyans did little more than read and repeat the master's teachings, which was not what Tolstoy had in mind. It was a cult in many ways, a cult towards which Tolstoy had at best ambivalent feelings. At one point he turned to someone he was with and he said "Do you see those people? They call themselves Tolstoyans. Do you know what that means? That means that they have absolutely nothing in common with my philosophy." The Tsarist government looked on Tolstoy with alarm, and began to censor almost everything he wrote. Competing forces of change and reaction had been rocking Russia since the serfs were freed in the 1860s. Tolstoy's teachings directly challenged the Tsar's authority. People began to say there were two Tsars in Russia - one was Leo Tolstoy. The Tsars were no fools. As one of the last Tsars says, &quot;I'm not going to add a martyr's crown to his glory.&quot; So they don't touch him. Tolstoy often said, &quot;I'd love to be forced to sit in the stinking jail,&quot; he said, &quot;just to suffer from my beliefs, I know that my followers are arrested for following me, but no one will do me the courtesy.&quot; The Russian Orthodox Church eventually excommunicated Tolstoy, which delighted him. While many cheered him on, others, like composer Peter Tchaikovsky, thought he was wasting his life. &quot;Tolstoy is for me the dearest, the deepest, the greatest of all artists. But this concerns the Tolstoy of yesterday, who has nothing in common with the exasperating moralist and theorizer of today." Tolstoy did continue to write, short stories, novellas and one final novel. Almost in spite of himself, his spiritual beliefs and his genius came together in these late works. Tolstoy made fun of people who just read things, especially his things. He wanted things to be engraved on the psyche, really change your life. He wanted human beings to become, in and through the process of reading, better human beings. But the unifying vision of Tolstoy the writer was beyond the reach of Tolstoy the man. His personal life was in turmoil, and his family was collapsing around him. As the years went by, Sofia Andreyevna, who was a highly nervous, intelligent, sensitive woman, became mentally unbalanced, really, because of the kind of disruption that, especially Chertkov and the Tolstoyans were causing in her family. There was no way that a woman or perhaps any intimate could survive alongside Tolstoy, given the path he chose to take. Being Tolstoy was finally, perhaps, too much for Tolstoy himself. Pressured on one side by Chertkov, on the other by Sofya, and still driven by his own relentless questioning, Tolstoy snuck out of his house in the middle of the night, October 28th, 1910. He was 82. He boarded a train but fell ill near a village called Astapova. He was carried into the station-master's house. Within hours, the entire world knew. Camera crews arrived to record the great man's final hours. He'd written many, many times about his desire to just leave home and become a wanderer, become a beggar around the world and people were waiting for it, it was almost like, you know, people would read the newspaper in the morning to find out whether or not Leo had finally left home. Everyone, everyone knew it was coming. The real victim of that final escape was his wife, Sophie Andreyevna. Tolstoy's doctors refused this companion of his, this mother of his children, this maker of his home, this in many ways co-maker of his works, refused her access to her own husband until he had sunk into his final coma. She was only allowed into the sickroom after Tolstoy could, by all eyewitness accounts, no longer recognize her, and this was a most terrible burden for Tolstoy's widow to bear. Thousands attended Tolstoy's funeral. His former serfs carried a banner that read, &quot;Dear Lev Nikolayevich, the memory of your goodness will not die among us, the orphaned peasants of Yasnaya Polyana.&quot; Tolstoy has a kind of commitment to truth. But truth is complicated. Truth is contradictory. And rather than resolve things in one way or another, which would have diminished the reality of his own nature, he chose to act in a contradictory way. His great gift to us is to remind us of how complicated and mysterious life is. His last words are, "To seek, always to seek." It's such a Tolstoy thing to say because he always, always was seeking some other truth, some higher truth, some new truth. The truth that eluded Tolstoy made its way into his writings. Master and Man, a short story written late in life, is about finding out what matters most at the last minute. A wealthy merchant Vasili Andreevich Brekhunov and his servant Nikita get lost on a sled in a bitter winter storm. With no hope of rescue soon, the merchant, obsessed all his life with nothing but his possessions, realizes that Nikita is freezing to death, and lies on top of him to keep him warm. While lying there, the merchant has a revelation. Vasili Andreevich then hears voices, he grows warm, he drowses and then suddenly he wakes up. &quot;He tried to get up but couldn't, he tried to move his arm but couldn't. To move his leg and also couldn't. To turn his head, and couldn't. He was surprised, but not at all disturbed by this. He understood that this was death and was not at all disturbed by that either. He remembered that Nikita was lying under him and that he had got warm and was alive and it seemed to him that he was Nikita and Nikita was he and this his life was not in him, but in Nikita. He strained his ears and heard Nikita breathing and even slightly snoring. Nikita is alive, so I too am alive he said to himself triumphantly. And he remembered his money, his shop, his house and everything he troubled himself with. Well that was because he did not know what the real thing was, he thought. He did not know, but now I know and I know for sure, now I know. After that, Vasili Andreevich Brekhunov neither saw, heard nor felt anything more in this world. All around him the snow still eddied, the same whirlwinds of snow circled about covering the dead Vasili Andreevich's fur coat, the shivering Mahorty, the horse, the sleigh now scarcely to be seen and Nikita lying at the bottom of it, kept warm beneath his dead master." Well that's Leo Tolstoy at the end of his life.