Do you feel overwhelmed by the sea of happiness directly hurts us, but if we its metaphorical colors of the rainbow, our levels of welding. And are you looking finding joy, no matter what life throws going through hardship, we're doing them a them. That struggle led to a certain level actually potentially twice as likely to the deterioration. Potentially, we could or does it make you better? If we say to happiness is important to me, or it's a happy. If you're in fight or flight, kind of how you hostage from your problem function, and your creativity. The reason levels in our youth and adult population technology and for going real, tangible, people. How does creativity fit into your creativity and ultimately for success. five-step staircase that will help you resilience, and creativity, innovation. elements. Make sure. Welcome back, quick brains. I am your host today is Tau Ben Shahar, a pioneering debunking the myth that success alone refreshingly realistic path to becoming chief learning officer of the Happiness also designed and launched the world's studies. Whether you're navigating a deeper sense of fulfillment, this episode strategies for finding meaning, nurturing relationships, and embracing all your happiness into your life. Tau, welcome to and I were speaking at a conference absolutely love your presentation. I was I want to talk about everything from innovation and creativity, and I know you wanted to bring you to our audience, topics now more than ever. So let's start about happiness. Of wine, it's obviously to be happy. How do you define happiness probably eight billion different it is that happiness is a combination of -being, physical, well-being, -being, and finally emotional, well-being. Spire, Spire, because I know it helps and spiritual well-being is about, of but it's mostly about finding a sense of being mindful and present. Physical well recovery. Intellectual well-being is about deep learning, relational, well-being, quality time we spend with people we care emotional well-being is about learning to embracing them, and then, of course, like gratitude, like love. And then how the, you know, your own mission to tell about? So I became interested in happiness this was when I was a student, an computer science. You know, my dad's an you know, it was pretty much set that I I found myself, you know, lacking computer of college doing well academically, doing doing quite well socially, and yet being me because, you know, I looked at my life the boxes, but from the inside it really cold Boston morning went to my academic majors from computer science to philosophy ago. As our listeners, obviously, most the desired state. What are some of the that maybe people don't realize that this truth in this field? Yes, so there are these myths because they're not based on happiness. So one of them, you know, we happiness is about an unbroken chain of you have to be happy all the time. And anybody's happy all the time. Well, yeah, are two kinds of people who do not sadness or anger or frustration or and the dead. So if you experience any one sign, yes, not a psychopath and you're themselves the permission to experience paradox is that when we reject or try to So if I tell myself, you know, tall, you professor, immediately the sadness myself, you shouldn't experience envy than that. Immediately the envy goes up emotions to simply flow naturally through don't overstay their welcome. That's podcast who wrote quiet amongst other sorrow and sadness and certain music that valuable also as well to have that myths we talked about for happiness. A lot talks about becoming more anti-fragile, the research you've done around happiness? -fragility through the work of Nassim -fragility is what I've come to call more 1.0. Resilience 1.0, the traditional idea take certain material and you put pressure goes back to its original form. Or a ball, it was before. That's why we talk about Anti-fragility, resilience 2.0, takes this certain material. If it's resilient, it resilience 2.0, it actually grows bigger resilient, it bounces back up. Resilience Now, it turns out that there are anti within us. I mean, think, for example, our stress your muscles. Subsequently, you We're anti-fragile, also psychologically, a lot of work with parents and teachers. from going through hardship, we're doing harming them. So that psychological stress disagreement they have with a friend or a potentially growth experiences. Why? physiologically, we're an anti-fragile -fragility through some stress, hardship, change for me with my brain injury, I to a certain level of strength. And during on stage for this roomful of CEOs and -traumatic stress, but there's this other me, I experienced it in that, is this the and you won't wish it upon anybody, but wouldn't change what happened to you. For with my accident, because I found a traits, I got clarity, purpose. Maybe you always hear about post-traumatic stress. growth over the past 10 years. We don't you could define it for people listening. introduced into the psychological and Calhoun, and what they demonstrate trauma were actually potentially twice as experience the deterioration potentially. is not realized. Why? First of all, the possibility of growth. And it becomes following a traumatic experience, I think, to me now is deterioration that is likely possibility is present, I'm much more certain conditions that we can put in likelihood, not guarantee, but increase from the hardship, from the challenge, of those conditions? So many of these elements. So if we find a sense of meaning we're more likely to grow from hardship. when you have a what for every how becomes meaning and purpose, mission, then you're that are in your way. Meditation being Physical exercise, you know, in the west is physical exercise connected to Well, very much is because physical toughness, two sides of the same system. even when you exercise, you know, those dopamine, serotonin, endorphins, it could neuroplasticity as increases as a result generate new neurons as a result of of psychological growth. And expressing mindset from, you know, blame to antecedent of psychological growth. Yeah, know, what you appreciate tends to fascinating because this is almost a just balancing back but bouncing forward exactly right. And, you know, the is that depression is sadness without understanding the concept of post is it provides us with hope because we all and sometimes traumatic experiences. And growth, that in and of itself gives us awareness that people listening or for them to even know it's possible. adversity they went through, it's kind of have around it and it doesn't mean people more freedom or more options and they become active agents rather than is a challenge or what is a hardship or point, a fork emerges. And we have much sometimes events are very hard, difficult way. So we're in a worse case. Yeah, we're are having. But it's just showing them points that these difficult times they can diminish us or these difficult times choice if this is make you bitter or does up, I very often heard the phrase that say, I never connected to it as a child. I happen for the best? The war happening dying COVID for the best? So, but while I for the best, I know that we can choose to things happen for the best is passive and the best of things that happened that's your book, Happier, is very practical. In inspiring with the examples that you have, listening, getting a copy of the book and the gift of the bit that jotted for more one thing that they could put into play to with your permission, I'll talk about a techniques, remember that even if you take consistently, you apply that one tip difference in your life. Little by little make a big difference when consistently you know, I often tell my students, if I and I exercise five times a week. But if I feel a significant drop in my well-being. and the thoughts that I create and develop exercise. So regular physical exercise at time. Yeah, it's interesting. Veronica, my about on Friday. She has this time, this Right. And so many people, they don't wonder at the end of the day, how they that matter. Yeah. And unless we schedule modern, crazy, busy world. So it has to you know, specific times, ideally, Friday, this hour or, or, you know, when I thing, we need to schedule these things. Pilates, certain activities, you and I Squash, right? And we talk about brain. Dance. Dance is terrific. You know, doing it with someone else, so there's the a group or in a duo. And also it's is variety and diversity in our brains, as And music affects our mood also as well. focusing general, meditation. That's huge again, it doesn't have to be, you know, if well not do it. Right. Five minutes a day, gentle breathing, can go a long way in, reduce the stress, because chronic stress your brain, but just getting that little yourself. And some people say, well, I have five or ten minutes and you probably you're that busy and stressed. That's helpful for happiness is taking time aside often now in restaurants or, you know, with them. And that's really unfortunate. happiness. And the reason why we see such youth and adult population is primarily foregoing real, tangible face-to-face other people. Would you like to have an help you unlock all of its powers and Limitless Mind Course, a transformative to operate your brain for greater success you'll activate expert level of memory. significantly enhance your focus and gain productivity. The Limitless Mind Course is that cover proven tips, tools and tailored for your ultimate learning transformed their cognitive abilities and Just visit thelimitlessmind.com to start relationships. It's not just your networks. And the social networks affect They're critical. And another element of and promote, is curiosity and learning. So So we've known for a long time that your success, business, school. But are curious who ask questions actually It does the opposite to humans. It it's reading, whether it's watching a questions about their topic. And that's he turns out for longevity as well. And feel like there's a certain level of fill your cup, right? Your mind's like a if I feel, and I come and have it reader, the more I feel like I can learn, or I before we started recording, we're having and creativity. Maybe we could have a creativity fit into your worldview? Yeah, psychology, actually, creativity was the work of Mihaly Chikzen, Mihaly and Flow, know, again, over 30 years ago, I've been simply what the research shows is that if a little bit, again, no radical -being, you actually become more creative. box. Why is that? Why is that? So I don't here is the how. You know, when I'm stress, my mind narrows and constricts, specific and particular. And that makes line is in front of me. I'm not going to relationships I have. You know, I'm going should fight or flight. But when I rather than narrow and constrict in the and build. I love that. That is what our box that's broadening. And that's what this is research by Alice Eisen on kids creativity. You boost their mood by a medical solutions or more creative ideas if you don't feel safe, if you're in fight And it kind of holds you hostage from your executive function, and your creativity. both from the individual level and is critical for creativity. There is work went to the beach and he was a child beach and he observed children playing, noticed that children who were in closer creative. And he coined the phrase circle the children were close within a certain And they were creative. They were further about it. For us as adults, yeah, I don't this sense of safety, whether it's, you relationships, you know, life in general, create. And we see it also through the Business School on psychological safety, like it's okay to make a mistake, like Ask questions, which is essentially context of a group. These individuals who more innovative. The groups where the creative. Yeah, I would imagine that if feel safe, they're not going to take risks solution to something. And therefore, know, failure is critical for creativity of the sound bites that I repeat over and to myself, is learn to fail or fail to foundation of creativity, innovation, and children have just seen the dynamic of you think about my sons has just learned fail many, many times, hundreds of times. people are thinking around them and always we try to learn that musical instrument. to code or whatever. We don't do quite as we mitigate like our aspirations, because their expectations. And it's interesting environment where everything is graded and wrong. Maybe we squelch their curiosity or wish, in addition to what we teach, that curiosity and creativity happiness would be like one of the most important You know, I often ask participants in my class in mathematics. Everyone puts their up. How about happiness? Nobody. How about creativity? Hardly anyone. And these are improve your performance in mathematics relationships and happiness. And they're, Absolutely. So I hope schools introduce haven't yet in traditional education where watching this and listening to this all right? And you have a textbook, if you write happier for? And what are they going if you will, is to create a bridge between to bring evidence-based scientific practical. And practical. You know, I anywhere for that matter. If I didn't make a difference in people's lives. So we courses who are, you know, coaches and medical doctors and managers in important for everyone because happiness important because, you know, we all want our, in our constitution. But happiness is is a means towards other ends. So as I creativity. It also leads to more better relationships and to longevity. So benefits to becoming happier. So maybe working towards being happy. Maybe they the love and the happiness to what they're element here in what you said. Because understanding that to be happy, they need up in the morning and say to myself, I'm happiness is important to me. It's a these statements actually will lead to because on the one hand, of course we want know this is research by Iris Moss and ourselves, I want to be happier. Or value to me, I will actually become less about it? How do we resolve this barrier can and should pursue happiness only bit more concrete through an analogy. You you know, you look at the sun. What But what if you go outside and you take a coming from the sun? And then you look at rainbow. That you can appreciate, that you hurts, looking at it indirectly actually same with happiness. Pursuing happiness happiness to its elements, to its we actually can enjoy an increase in our metaphorical colors of the rainbow? These the morning and say, I'm going to become happy. But if I say, I'm going to spend an indirect well-pursuing happiness or learning or dancing or spending more time ways of pursuing happiness. That's than subjecting ourselves to direct listening right now and they want to go with you? What resources do you have? And again at jimquick.com. But what are some at and learn more? Yes, so the Happiness certificate program that we introduce our skills that they can introduce, whether workplace, in school, to increase their have a master's degree in the world's soon to be expanded to a PhD. And we have we have a lovely course through Mind to spend. I decided to spend my life in much to learn. If your team sends us everyone to find. And in your books, well. Social media? Yes, so we are on Facebook, Twitter, amazing. Well, I'm to connect. We talked about it a while or watching, I know they got practical even being more aware that this is even that we lose touch sometimes with the our happiness because, you know, it's something like that. So I appreciate your work that you do in the research and look forward maybe having you back. And club will be phenomenal. Thank you, Jim, Tom. Everyone, I want to thank you so much and this is a long conversation on the quick. But for the full expanded version, please go to our YouTube channel. We have we put the extended version of our content of health, lots of happiness until our