The U.S. government is really when it comes to making microchips. But so far - China has NOT gotten its hands on a In a previous video, I talked about Company makes over 90% of the smallest Their semiconductor chips power everything In other words, they make civilization function. Well, people who watched the cannot make their chips without one TSMC cannot make its chips without a $150 million ASML's high-end equipment prints the tiny Microchips are made by building An ASML machine patterns the finest lines on the The projection system shrinks and After the pattern is printed, it moves on the wafer. They are built up layer MUCH more complicated because this involves The more transistors can be added to a ASML is the only company in the world that makes It manufactures the equipment at its The company was founded in 1984 as a joint and the Dutch chip-machine ASML is now an independent company. It has a monopoly on EUV lithography, "extreme ultraviolet light" - an extremely short circuitry than is possible with conventional EUV light doesn't occur naturally So ASML must generate it somehow. To generate the light, a CO2 laser fires two tin vapor becomes plasma which emits EUV light. The machines are assembled in clean rooms times cleaner than outside air. Even the smallest The company's decision to switch to EUV light It cost billions of dollars to make but the effort has paid off big time. ASML is now valued at around $193 billion dollars. The EUV equipment is sold to the largest Every one of its machines has over 100,000 parts. They're shipped in 40 freight containers, Like the rest of the world, China also relies on ASML machines for Chinese But in 2019, the Trump administration to block shipments of ASML's most sophisticated machines to China, and the Biden administration has shown However, ASML is NOT restricted from ASML's older deep ultraviolet (DUV) systems the most common way to make less advanced chips. In 2021, 16% of ASML's sales went to China, around $2.2 billion dollars' worth. The Washington has been trying to hamper When President Biden signed the CHIPS Act or other chip companies want billions in U.S. they have to agree not to sell Washington has also been pushing ASML even to stop shipping its less sophisticated This could deal a serious which has reportedly been making that are only a generation behind the 5-nanometer If Washington gets its way, even ASML's older China could start producing its own lithography However, analysts believe it to build its own equipment ASML's CEO Peter Wennink believes it He says: &quot;I am not saying it cannot be done, same in China as they are here. Never Sophisticated machines like a lithography engineers who have mastered STEM. science, and computer science skills, Brilliant (Cindy on camera working through the Logic improve my critical thinking skills I've noticed my viewers especially love the learn to program drones in an Amazon warehouse. You can solve puzzles with science Or practice Everyday Math by There are no tests on Brilliant, and it's for people of all experience levels If you get stuck, you can view the Brilliant is FREE for you to try out if you brilliant.org/newsthink will get 20% off Brilliant's annual Premium the offerings including the most advanced courses. If the current state of the world and you'd like to be able to relax and get I used to have a lot of problems sleeping. But ever since I've been taking BiOptimizers, my sleep has been better. I've been taking their pills every I'm more relaxed and less stressed during making these videos demands a lot of my attention. What makes magnesium breakthrough stand out All of the ingredients are naturally derived. When you get all seven critical forms of your body gets a serious upgrade so you If you head to magnesiumbreakthrough.com/newsthink My custom link is in my And don't forget to use my promo Thanks for watching. For Newsthink, I'm Cindy Pom.