The US economy is being held hostage by a small Apollo, Blackstone, the Carlyle Group, Kohlberg, plunder businesses, piling on debt, refusing companies into bankruptcy. The object is not to to make a short-term profit. Those who run these Schwarzman, and David Rubenstein have amassed The wreckage they orchestrate is taken out benefits slashed, are taken out on pension fees or are abolished. And on our health and owned by private equity firms, experience and reduced compliance with standards of care. health crisis. Nursing shortages have contributed injuries caused by errors. The private equity have closed hospitals, especially in rural vital medical devices including ventilators the US had about 1.5 million hospital beds and with a population of over 330 million people, have medical debt, even though many have Emergency room visits and emergency rooms, often medical debt for 44% of Americans. At the same slash and burn assault -- Was unprepared to handle during the pandemic because they could not afford firms, like an invasive species, are ubiquitous. utility companies, and retail chains, while subsidies made possible by bought-and-paid-for Joining me to discuss private equity firms and Prize-winning journalist, Gretchen Morgenson, These are the Plunderers: How Private Equity what they are. They've just rebranded Well, Chris, these are the old takeover titans RJR Nabisco was the big deal that focused rebranded themselves into something called sounds like it might be fair -- equity being that were fearsome, and Congress, at that time, was the economy. Congress lost interest and went on to the next few decades -- Pillage the economy Explain how they work. Because it's all about is they don't put very much money in. But Okay. These firms, first of all, they raise money own money for those buyouts. What they do is they they go to the big institutional investors and to buy-out companies, we're going to make them in 5-7 years at a profit, and you will be able private equity titans do not put a lot of their typically the private equity firm's money. So and look for companies to buy, and they home-in These are often physical Physical assets like real estate. Now, you of retailers. When that was going on, often they very favorable leases or had land underneath their stripping the company. It's not about operating the assets, extracting the money that they So they buy a company, they then find out how they firing many people, stripping the assets, selling they get all their money back -- Initially, very, a carcass. What's left is a company that has now These transactions are funded by debt, but it's debt, it's the company they're buying. So if they retailer. Suddenly that retailer has way higher have to cut costs elsewhere: fire people, deplete of people win and a huge circle of pain of losers Well, because it's about short-term profit. You system -- This was an amazing story. What they had the nursing homes, and then suddenly these or something more a month. I'll let you explain. also carrying out policies that physically before they arrive -- You have the story mill you write about -- That we're healthy. you were talking about, Manor Care, it was very made -- And this was Carlyle Group, which Let me interrupt because as you point they pull in heavyweight political figures Unlike the other firms which are located in Carlyle is based in Washington and it's a revolving door with government officials; they bought Manor Care. It was a very well company. They immediately sold the land under the They took out the equivalent of what they had they sold the land. So they were free and clear. so they weren't concerned about the profits; They nursing homes suddenly had to pay exorbitant rents Ultimately, what ended up happening was an overcharge Medicare for services to these gut-wrenching. There were some whistleblowers who and the DOJ took the case, but then blew the case. told about forcing aged, frail, ill residents to didn't need, in order to bill Medicare You write about the ER. What are they called? use. They will hospitalize people who don't need substandard because the staffing is cut. Manor Care was driven into bankruptcy by the because they had done this transaction to buy You call these private equity firms -- These Before we go into specifics, talk about it. we can talk about the charming, is it Leon figures -- Billions upon billions of dollars. The net worths of the people running these COVID years, Steve Schwarzman... He is the head I think it went up to something like $35 billion enormous fees for their operation. They extract I want to interrupt you. The deal is they get the pension funds will make a profit. But then funds to pay them management fees. You have cases but if I remember, they're pulling like 10%, in the end, don't actually make a profit. The rule of thumb is called &quot;2 and 20.&quot; So a management fee every year, and then 20% of the a billionaire-making machine for these guys that pull back the curtain on some of their practices. buy a company, they will often install people it to make sure that they're going in the right necessarily. And they will charge them fees expertise. These fees are generally contracted they end up selling between 5-7years. the short-term nature of this. But the company that the private equity firm is charging them. one of the tricks of the trade that they do while they're impoverishing so many other people. ties to companies they control. The wreckage they its origins. And I want to raise another point important: Many Americans who are being assaulted don't quite know what is wrong. It's tied to this, I want you to talk about their political clout they corrupt the system enough to essentially Absolutely. Absolutely. So the secrecy wanted to write this book is to let people Well, you write at one point that all of us, private equity firms. So talk about how extensive I write in the book, the coffee and donut that you where you drop your son or daughter off, the it is cradle to grave. You're impacted by private companies that are buying and selling, but you scenes. And they like it that way, they want in secrecy. They're private companies. They and Exchange Commission so a lot of their hidden from view, and that is by design. perception or educate people about how pervasive to identify themselves as the owners; So it should donut shop or whatever. Just so you are aware of putting your money into. Now, the secrecy is one so much money, their tax treatment is an outrage, but have not been able to do so. Their fortunes are enhanced by the fact that incomes every year because it's called carried The ordinary income tax rate is what, up to 35%? that they receive from their operations. That's it has created a skewed system where they make loses because they're not generating the tax It's nuts. Now, the last time someone tried to Because it was good for the people of Arizona. million from the private equity world to stand them to pay their fair share of taxes would it would generate more income, and it would You write, &quot;Routinely lionized in the financial 'charitable' giving, these unbridled capitalists ensure continued enrichment from favorable tax power on museum boards and think tanks. They've importance of humility and humanity' at the Their companies arrange for them to avoid their stockholdings generate. And, of course, own are among the largest beneficiaries of and primary education, reaping massive perks from substantially lower rates on their earnings. barons. But unlike many of their predecessors in by extracting a young nation's natural resources, middle class through complex financial dealings.&quot; but they serve in government. You have several about how they dominate the political system. was a Carlyle executive. They're everywhere. they're not on the job, say, in the government, outcomes so that their businesses will benefit. Chris, better than anybody, how money our government works. You have not had enough The one thing we did have, the activity, the to act, and that was on the surprise medical bills the brainchild of a company called Envision, was it went into emergency departments and departments in a hospital. It wouldn't own the And Envision decided that what they could do be a separate entity outside of the insurance normally have. So you're in your town, you've broken your arm or whatever, your stay or treatment -- You naturally assume it's Well, Envision carved themselves out of that was something that was so crazy and impossible something about it and changed and curbed but they curbed it. And guess what? Envision model required them ... Its business I want to talk about several cases, including who needs constant medical care, Let's talk about, in detail, Noranda Aluminum. very, very well-located aluminum smelter the Bootheel region of Missouri. Not a wealthy this was a smelter aluminum production that had healthcare, and the company had been there for smelter doing a tremendous business on the all up and down the country. Great company. Let me interrupt you. When a private equity firm like Apollo comes company's looking to sell. Is that correct? But aren't they able to pressure companies Well, it depends. Usually it's about money. traded shares and the shareholders are the whether the acquisition is made, generally great, I'm going to get a windfall. I'm going price was trading at when the acquirer share. Generally speaking, the shareholders When it's a private company, you're then talking better off taking the money and running. But and that gets people's attention and the owners they buy the smelter, they promise that they're workers are there, and they immediately load not have a lot of debt, so it didn't have enormous I want to ask, when they load it up with debt, did assets... That's how they can get the debt because Correct. So the asset is this smelter also had a very low cost of electricity. to pay for the acquisition? Yes. pay for the acquisition, but it again allows the loading the debt onto the company itself, not the one that now has to struggle with the debt associated with the debt. So Noranda, they load its money out. All of its money out. Wasn't that much. Maybe like six months extract all their money by putting the debt under this debt load. Apollo then raises more money on the Noranda purchase. Meanwhile, the It goes under because it It starts to struggle because it has to this is a problem. We need to negotiate with lower our electricity costs or otherwise, we're take it somewhere else or something. So a lower rate, even though it means that the other have to cover that difference. it then starts to fire people because it can't the debt is too high, there may have been an demand but it was the debt that was causing the but Apollo has made three times its money. So three different pensions. The Pension Benefit three Noranda pensions because of the bankruptcy. Noranda was the biggest taxpayer in this the tax base crumbled, and the school teachers Noranda owed for the school payments, for its So this was a perfect example of the circle of all of the money for themselves. Three times they harmed school teachers and school pensioners. That's what we're talking about. appeared to be fierce rivals competing the companies they hope to acquire. In reality, club that meant richer profits for them and fewer This was an amazing case. It was brought by it was shareholders. But anyway, they turned up had emails between these big powerful firms that KKR, et cetera. The emails showed them to be very on this deal. We won't do this deal. We'll let So it became clear when you have this kind of have two bidders, three bidders, five bidders -- are going to get a better price because those company. If you only have one bidder, they're going to be raising the cost of the acquisition. getting less because the other firms had decided It was collusion that people had not and it was shocking. They ended up paying a lot eye-opener about how they are working together to price and that there won't be tough competition. DOJ didn't think so. Did not bring a case. wrote a book called America the Farewell Tour, declared bankruptcy, and they were stripping city which made things worse. It was a temporary fix Talk about how they're cannibalizing basic communities, and the government. the '80s about privatization; That the government privatize all of these organizations and services. they're going to do a better job -- We know private equity firms do understand that there utilities that are necessities. We are not talking So Bayonne, New Jersey, like many cities in the were bursting that needed help. Along comes KKR we'll give the money to you that you need to the deal, you can well imagine that the people operators, and the people on the water utility What ended up happening was that for the people town, not a wealthy town, their water rates where this very small group of financiers and everyone else winds up paying the freight. the Association of Environmental Authorities, annual bill for privately-owned water systems in systems. And in privatized arrangements, their income on water.&quot; So these rate hikes are Crippling. Crippling. And it's let's not drink any water today. Let's not or do our dishes. It's not a frivolous item. talked in a microcosm, but what's it doing to the The first thing, and the most important gap in this country, it blows that out. the disparity between the rich and poor in this Is it unsustainable because in essence, Well, it is unsustainable because you can't keep people to become billionaires; That's a recipe for benefit a wide array of people. It's supposed to economic situation. Have a good job. Be able to -- -- When it's regulated, right. have a term in the book, &quot;a-hole capitalism.&quot; capitalism. Where I don't care about everyone can get for myself. So it's the wealth gap in these entities are contributing mightily that's the 30,000-foot view. When you where people are personally affected by this. disappears because a company goes bankrupt -- That -- Whether you're talking about a nursing home talking about pensions that are depleted because less prosperous than you had hoped it would be; Chris, and that's why this is important to know. and talking about their deals and how you never hear about the people on the other side are people on the other side of the transaction Well, that's been the great failing. The telling those stories. Reading your book and about how people know something is wrong, I read that as a huge factor in the rise of a Yes, I agree 100%. They don't understand finance. reason. They hide behind the complexity. They hide you don't know that they own the companies. I'm not knowing what the problem is, because it is But it is pernicious and it is impacting reduced pensions, it's causing increased costs for unease about my future. Am I going to have enough to send my child to college? There's an unease You make a point in the book with the surprise remember it, was about $600 or something. Well, these families living on the edge are completely predatory practices are bleeding, especially with which you make very clear in the book. it's not addressed. And it's largely not addressed in essence, these people own the political class. during the Trump administration -- A lot of these Steve Schwarzman was at Trump's He was his business advisor. Financial expert. thanks. That was Pulitzer Prize-winning author of These Are The Plunderers: How I want to thank The Real News Network and Adam Coley, David Hebden, and Kayla Rivara.