Today we are making a classic of French pastry: The Mille-feuille. In this video I will show you the very important steps to follow. And above all I will try to give as many details as possible so that you make this cake a success for sure. What do you say? Let's get baking! Learn French Pastry Hello You-bakers, it's Aida. Welcome to my channel. The best place to find NVQ and chefs recipes advice, tips, techniques to learn French pastry and to progress while having fun. Don't forget to subscribe. You can use a paintbrush if you don't have a flour brush. EQUIPMENT I strongly recommend preparing all the equipment needed before starting. Prepare a triangle of 4.21 x 12.6 x 14.9 in (12x32x38cm) Then another rectangle in a 7 x 5.9 in (18x15cm) wallet like shown on the video. And two pieces of baking paper of 11.8 x 15.7 in (30x40cm) Clingfilm. Finally prepare two baking trays of 11.8 x 15.7 in (30x40cm) to make five Mille-feuilles. A bain-marie. Peas. Personally, I use chickpeas or beans. And a pan, sufficiently wide and deep to cool the pastry cream. Start by preparing the detrempe. FLOUR 10.58 OZ SALT 0.21 OZ COLD WATER 5.29 OZ MELTED BUTTER 0.88 OZ Make a fountain Make a fountain and pour part of the very cold water. Dissolve the salt in the centre. And bring the flour slowly towards the centre. PUT THE WATER IN THE FREEZER FOR 15 MIN BEFORE STARTING Pour the rest of the water then the butter and mix it up. At this stage, the dough isn't homogenous and it's normal. It should be rough. Avoid working it too much. Cover with clingfilm. And keep it in the fridge for 30 minutes. PREPARATION OF THE BUTTER Take 8.11 oz (230g) of Poitou-Charentes butter Take 8.11 oz (230g) of Poitou-Charentes butter Flattened into a rectangle. And place at the center of the wallet that you prepared beforehand. Close it and roll out into a perfect rectangle. Set aside in the cold for 15 minutes. Take the detrempe and the butter out. They both should have the same consistency. Flour your worktop a little. LAMINATING Flour your worktop a little. Make the detrempe of the same width as the butter and twice it's length. Encloses the butter in the detrempe. It's very important to perfectly weld Start by making two simple turns. Flour the worktop a little. Start by gently tapping the dough in order to weld it with the butter and distribute it uniformly without crushing it. Gently roll out without crushing the sheets. If the dough sticks, put some flour. Maintain the dough straight to roll it out in a rectangle of 23.6 x 7.87 in (60x20cm) If the dough gets deeper, press strongly in the center to correct it. Make yourself a mark. As far as I'm concerned, I know that one rolling pin plus one wrist equal 23.6 in (60cm) For the width, I marked my rolling pin at 7.87 in (20cm) Using the brush, get rid of the flour before folding. Avoid having rounded edges. Make your first wallet fold. You have just made a first single turn. Always keeps the opening of the wallet on the same side and check that you are perfectly edge to edge. Do the same for the second single turn, You have completed the second single turn. Cover the dough with clingfilm and put it in the cold for 30 minutes. In the meantime, prepare the pastry cream. PASTRY CREAM MILK 26.45 OZ, SUGAR 5.29 OZ, EGGS 5.29 OZ, FLAN POWDER 0.7 OZ Pour half of the sugar in the eggs and the other half in the milk. Heat up the milk. And add the vanilla. Mix the flan powder and flour. Add to the eggs. Mix until there is no more lump. When the milk starts to heat up, pour half in the eggs. and put it all back to cook. Be careful, the milk must not be boiling during this process. As soon as the cream thickens continue to cook for 4 minutes. It's important to perfectly cook the cream to assemble the Mille-feuille. Add the butter and pour it all in a wide and deep pan in order to cool the pastry cream. Cover with clingfilm. Get the dough out and identify the opening of your wallet which you always place on the same side before starting a turn. Now make the third and fourth simple turn by proceeding the same way as the first two turns. Let it rest for two hours in the fridge. Make a syrup at 30o. SUGAR 5.29 OZ, WATER 3.52 OZ SUGAR 5.29 OZ, WATER 3.52 OZ Mix the water and sugar. Stop the cooking at the first boiling. Set aside. WHITE FONDANT Now make the fondant. SUGAR 7.93 OZ, WATER 2.64 OZ SUGAR 7.93 OZ, WATER 2.64 OZ Cook the water and sugar at 237.2 oF (114oC) At 237.2oF (114oC) stop immediately the baking and immerse the saucepan in cold water. Pour in a mixing bowl and beat using dough hooks until the mixture hardens. Work the dough for a few seconds to soften it. Cover with clingfilm and set aside at room temperature. After two hours of rest, finish your fifth and last turn. To make five Mille-feuille, cut the dough in half because it requires a half of 12.34 oz (350g) of dough for a 11.8 in x 15.7in (30cm x 40xm) baking sheet. Place the baking sheet next to you. Lower the dough to the width of the baking sheet. Check with the baking paper you should be slightly below. Then, the same applies to the length of the baking sheet. Place the rolled out pastry on your baking sheet this way so as not to deform it. Slightly stretch it. Add a little sugar and equalize with your hand. Place over the second baking paper that you previously prepared. Bake at 338oF (170degC) for 15 minutes. After 15 minutes of baking Place a second baking sheet on top with a weight. Put it back to bake another 15 to 20 minutes. You can now smooth the pastry cream with a beater. Set aside. Cut your puff pastry in three equal parts. MILLE-FEUILLE ASSEMBLY Place 13.2 oz (375g) of pastry cream. Smooth and equalize the cream. Place another 13.2 oz (375g) of cream and smooth it once again. Slightly press it. Smooth on all four sides. And set aside. Prepare the cone proceeding as followed. THE CONE Prepare the cone proceeding as followed. Identify the edge of the cone and keep it facing you. Put the equivalent of 2 teaspoons of melted chocolate. CHOCOLATE 0.7 OZ Put the equivalent of 2 teaspoons of melted chocolate. And close the cone in the opposite direction of the edge. Melt the fondant over low heat in a bain-marie. THE ICING Melt the fondant over low heat in a bain-marie. Proceed to melting the fondant. MELTING FONDANT IN A BAIN-MARIE First of all you have to cool down the fondant. First of all you have to cool down the fondant. It should be almost cold to the touch. The fondant must not exceed 86oF (30degC) before icing. Then work the consistency of your fondant adding the syrup little by little. It must have a sufficiently thick consistency. Just before icing the Mille-feuille cut out the angle of the cone the size of the diameter of a toothpick, i.e. very small. and above all make sure that it works properly. Before icing, you must have prepared the cone the elbow spatula, the paring knife and the icing perfectly ready. It's only when everything is ready that you can start icing. Careful, smooth it quickly, with 3 or 4 spatula strokes because the fondant sets quickly. Make parallel lines, going back and forth. If you are not used to it practice on a paper before icing the Mille-feuille. Put the tip of your knife to one side in the opposite direction of the parallels lines. Do the same in the opposite direction wiping the tip of the knife every time. Place the mille-feuille on a slate and set aside in the freezer for 2 hours. After two hours CUTTING before cutting the Mille-feuille before cutting the Mille-feuille check its consistency. The tip of your knife should be able to penetrate the pastry cream. You can now cut off all four edges using a knife with teeth. You can cut off five equal parts. Wipe the knife between each cut. There! The Mille-feuilles are ready. Bon appetit! I hope you enjoyed the video. Don't forget to give me a little blue thumb if you liked it. Don't forget to subscribe. And to activate the little notification to keep receiving my videos. I see you very soon for a new recipe! Bye!