The Four Noble Truths are the foundation of These four deceptively simple insights are understanding just one of them. The Pali word for 'truth', sacca, also So, the Four Noble Truths are not philosophical Rather, the Buddha taught them as scientific laws of thermodynamics. The Four Noble Truths represent objective, realised when he awoke. To not know these truths, he said, is to sleepwalk not knowing they bring you suffering. But it is no coincidence these four truths To hear them is already the first step on an awakened one, a Buddha, yourself. So, let's explore the Four Noble Truths can enrich our own lives as sentient beings The First Noble Truth is that life is full Now what is dukkha? Most people translate this Pali word as 'suffering', And it can be misleading. 'Suffering' is a very strong English word We say we've had a stressful day at work or that we regret not talking to our crush Life is full of such unpleasant experiences, exaggeration. The Buddha meant just such things with dukkha, For example, losing your keys is dukkha, but Regretting your choice for lunch is dukkha, is also dukkha. Hitting your toe is dukkha and having a lifelong The point is - dukkha can be translated 'discomfort', 'stress', or 'unpleasantness'. All these things are dukkha, but dukkha is Dukkha is a much deeper word than any English It is a word used in Buddhism to denote a Namely, that we never really get what we want. And even if we get what we want, we always This is the First Noble Truth of Buddhism. But not only unpleasant things are dukkha. The Buddha tells his disciples that even pleasure, The pleasure you experience during an orgasm The happiness from seeing your child born Even the pleasure of learning the Buddha's Why? Because none of these things ever lasts. Think about it. Whatever happiness and pleasure you attain will one day all be gone. And when it is gone, it will leave you with Thus, all the happiness and pleasure you'll within it. And you WILL experience this dukkha, if not This is not an opinion, but a reality of life. You see, the First Noble Truth of Buddhism realise. It says not only that there is unhappiness It says that even what we believe is happiness Pleasure is only the mask of pain; achievement the mask of dukkha. Now, here you may say: 'Wait a minute. Sure, happiness always comes and goes, but Why did the Buddha focus so much on dukkha Isn't this unfairly pessimistic?' To this I would answer, 'Please be patient, after all!'. I would also say that there is some virtue After all, dukkha is the universal problem and places. In his great book What the Buddha Taught, 'One physician may gravely exaggerate an Another may ignorantly declare that there thus deceiving the patient with a false consolation. You may call the first one pessimistic and Both are equally dangerous. But a third physician diagnoses the symptoms of the illness, sees clearly that it can be of treatment, thus saving his patient. The Buddha is like the last physician.' (Walpola Thero, What the Buddha Taught) existence is full of dukkha? Surely, a lesser mind would here collapse After all, if everywhere you turn there is there in anything? A western nihilist would here recommend taking But for the Buddha, even this is not a way The Buddha was, after all, certain of the To take one's life, as an act of violence, life, where dukkha is even more intense. So, trapped in this endless labyrinth of dukkha, his situation? Well, he did what he advises us all to do. He pointed his trained mind singularly at He looked, and looked - and he looked deep. And there, right in the middle of dukkha, Thirst. The Second Noble Truth is that the cause and You see, the Sanskrit word for 'thirst' And it is no coincidence the two words sound 'Thirst' actually derives from trsna and So what did the Buddha mean by 'thirst' Well, think of all the bad experiences you've A break up, a car accident, a failed exam, No matter how different, these all have one That is - in each case you wanted your experience This is thirst, the fundamental desire for Now pay attention. It is not thirst for the wrong things, but A monk thirsts for enlightened, a lover for a Wallstreet trader for a bigger pay check. One man thirsts out of love, another out of The specifics don't matter. Thirst is always the origin of dukkha. Whatever we thirst for brings us dukkha because Even if we get what we want, it is never as Even if what we attain IS as good as we imagined, The roads of desire are many and winding, And it gets even worse. Thirst is an addiction. When our desires bring us dissatisfaction, On the contrary, we feel that only desiring lasting happiness. Of course, this never happens. Every desire comes with the promise of a better But desire is like the mythical monster Hydra in its place. Every desire is the fuel for yet more desire In the Fire Sermon the Buddha says to his All is burning'. Now, the Buddha distinguishes some desires For example, the desire to become a better, and less harmful than the desire for alcohol. But as one moves along the path of awakening, from one's spiritual ambitions. The amazing thing is that the Buddha designed to learn all of it through hard and long practice The Buddha expresses this in his famous simile He describes his teaching as a raft you use But what should you do once you reach safely Do you take the raft with you and carry it Of course not. This would only make it harder for you to It is the same way with the dhamma, the teaching At first you must put great effort into learning But once you are advanced enough, it will to teachings, concepts, and practices - even A frequent criticism of Buddhist doctrine you, why do Buddhists tell you nirvana is This question might seem like it points to it is the question itself that is erroneously It is like asking 'When a fire goes out, It is an invalid question; it uses words in sense if you don't know their true meaning. If one knows what a fire going out means, Similarly, if one has an idea of what nirvana But what IS nirvana? And if it is the culmination of Buddhist practice, To answer this, we need to look at the Third If the First Noble Truth gives us the symptom, disease all men suffer from - thirst. The other two Truths then will tell us about the cure is. Indeed, the Third Noble Truth is one of the made in history. It is the claim that it is possible for a and forever. The Third Noble Truth comes from the Buddha's the bodhi tree. There and then, he discovered a reality free This was not a concept or an abstract idea. It was, in fact, something even more real daily lives. The Buddha discovered a perfect reality that the eyes to see it. He called it nirvana. Nirvana is not only difficult, but impossible We have created words to speak of the illusory nirvana is that which is beneath all appearances. Words can only circle around it but never a flame. This makes some people uneasy. The great German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche considered deep. The truth is that they are not even superficial.' To him, nirvana would sound like a made-up the Buddha's critics. But, in defence of the Buddha, let's do Imagine living on an island full of colourblind colours. You might try to explain to others what colours But all you'll do is convince them you are Do you see what I'm getting at? To understand the dhamma, we must allow that speaking of colours we cannot yet see. This attitude will allow us to discuss difficult a full grasp of them. So, what can we say about nirvana? The literal meaning of the Sanskrit word nirvana For example, when a fire goes out, it 'nirvana-s', Nirvana is not a state or a thing, but a transition. So, when people say the Buddha 'attained It is more appropriate to say the Buddha extinguished He, so to say, nirvana-ed. But what exactly gets extinguished during Well, there's a very long answer we'll The short answer is that nirvana is the extinguishing All likes and dislikes, all desire and attachment, of being a separate self... These flames which turn our lives into a living So, you see, it is nonsensical to say nirvana Nirvana, by definition, is the end of all So, if you desire nirvana you are desiring is like. This too is something you must let go of for In fact, even the desire to be free of dukkha I know, the deeper we get into it, the more This perhaps makes nirvana sound like some masters can enter. But remember that Arctic Monkeys album called Not. This is like a description of nirvana. (And I don't mean the band.) Let me cite again Walpola Thero, who puts 'It is incorrect to think that Nirvana is Nirvana is not the result of anything. If it would be a result, then it would be is neither cause nor effect. It is beyond cause and effect. Truth is not a result nor an effect. It is not produced like a mystic, spiritual, NIRVANA IS. The only thing you can do is to see it, to There is a path leading to the realization But Nirvana is not the result of this path. You may get to the mountain along a path, effect of the path. You may see a light, but the light is not (Walpola Thero, What the Buddha Taught) element of our reality. When we live in ignorance nirvana sounds strange But one who has removed the beam from his what has been there all along. And the Buddha did not just tell people about No, like a good doctor, he gave detailed prescriptions disease of dukkha to an end. His followers compiled all the prescriptions The early disciples memorised and organised calling 'the path'. This system had eight major components, and It is this path exactly that is the Fourth Now, I am a Christian and where I come from, We call it a 'sin'. But the word sin, especially in the old days, eyes of God. It had a more general meaning that applied a badly written poem, or an arrow that cannot We have this same concept in the Eightfold This path is based on the idea that there and a right way of living, which can reduce This division between wrong and right actions opinion. Rather, it is an almost scientific theory In the eyes of the Buddha, most people are Thus, without knowing it, they live in a way The Buddha's teaching was effectively a dukkha for yourself and others. So let's see what this manual consists of. Right View means having the wisdom to see and others. As today, so too at all times, what culture flaw and failure in disguise. No amount of material wealth, productivity, In fact, these things have the delayed effect To see this requires wisdom and it is a Right Right Intention requires Right View. Only after you see things as they really are of goals. The Buddha saw that man is sick with endless is to try to cure yourself and others from Once you see things as they are and have the and live are calibrated to lead you out of And then we arrive at the final three branches A lot of people, myself included, believe of Buddhism without having a meditation practice. This does not mean that meditation alone leads transforming one's perception of reality. It is telling that the last three aspects practice of meditation. Buddhist meditation deserves a whole separate that one needs to train and transform one's of the Buddha. The Buddha was a spirit-healer, a mind-healer, human mind from the infection of ignorance One needs to put significant effort into developing through the false beliefs clouding his judgement. This is Right Effort, Right Mindfulness, and The Eightfold Noble Path does not tell you Rather, it is a description of what a fully All you can do is try to imitate this description awake human being yourself. And the eight aspects of the Path are not Rather, they all depend on one another. One has Right View only if one has Right Mindfulness. One has Right Mindfulness only if one has As Walpola Thero writes: practised and developed by each individual... It has nothing to do with belief, prayer, It is a Path leading to the realization of and peace through moral, spiritual and intellectual (Walpola Thero, What the Buddha Taught) do not believe the Four Noble Truths were They are probably a later formula created for a memorable summary of his teachings. Whether this is true or not will not bring But taking these truths to heart in our everyday this might just as well be good for us. Remember that 'the Buddha' is a nickname. It means 'the one who awoke'. But think for a minute what this actually It is not just a metaphor. The Buddha tells us there is a shift in consciousness up from sleep. He is talking about nothing less than a total and ends in one's consciousness. And this is a transformation towards truth, It is the end of sleep, the end of the false in ourselves. Most importantly, it is the end of dukkha. The Buddha, when he finally perfected his but... then he awoke. His teachings since that day, these Four Noble our ears, trying to awaken us too. The good news is, the nightmare is only a What awaits us when we awake is true reality. Not only more perfect than we imagine, but So, I invite you to use this video as a jumping-off and noble tradition we call Buddhism. If you're up for another deep dive, check It is a much earlier video I did, but it's And while you're still listening, I want and helping me continue make such content. I am now trying to make this YouTube project appreciate it if you support me with even So thank you again, and remember Rumi's See you next time.