Hey, Vsauce. Michael here. Every cloud has a silver lining. Except nuclear mushroom clouds, Caesium-137 and other radioactive isotopes. Upon detonation, atoms are literally gutted and glutton at temperatures exceeding of our Sun. rapatronic camera caught nuclear fireballs less than a thousandth of a second after detonation. each exposure lasted only a billionth an other-worldly creature, supporting its tower into stringing legs of plasma. Watch the target on the ground. TNT explosion. Now, on the same spot, a similarly sized bomb that uses nuclear fission. When 'Little Boy' was detonated over Hiroshima only 1.38% of its uranium actually fissioned. that could happen, which means, as fission of merely 0.7 grams of uranium, that's less than the weight of 80,000 people and destroy two-thirds of city's buildings. When a country has ready to go, accidents are a possibility. This was a problem during the Cold War and it still is a problem. What if there is a fire officer decides to set one off. Or what if someone just drops a warhead? How much risk is too much, I asked Schlosser. The acceptable probability of a nuclear weapon accident? What is it now? The acceptable probability of the detonation of a nuclear weapon In 2012, the odds of your dying in a commercial airliner accident million. So that's even more remote than There have been 'oopsie daisy' moments on US soil. Luckily, none that but accidents nonetheless. pee your pants, except your pants and the &quot;P&quot; stands for Plutonium. Eureka comes from ancient Greek, meaning &quot;I have found it!&quot; And in Eureka, North Carolina you can find it. A giant sign that says &quot;Nuclear mishap&quot;. On my birth date the year my father was born, two 4 megaton thermonuclear bombs over North Carolina tumbled from the sky. A loose lanyard in the switch. than all munitions ever detonated by mankind combined. one safety mechanism didn't fail that day. A single low voltage arming switch remained untouched during the crash. he explained in 2011, we don't have a bay where North Carolina is today. The bombs were recovered... mostly. The uranium-rich Secondary never found. To this day it remains buried underground in North Carolina. at home. Build a nuclear reactor. In 1994, a 17-year-old David Han attempted to build a nuclear reactor in his mother's backyard in Michigan. It wasn't that difficult. For instance, common everyday smoke detectors radioactive Americium. contains Radium. His reactor never in exposing his neighborhood to 1000 times the regular dosage of background radiation. It was declared a site and all of his work was confiscated by in Utah. It didn't end there. In 2007 David Hahn was arrested for stealing smoke detectors His face was covered with sores believed radioactive materials. Three days after Little Boy was dropped Charles Sweeney was ordered to drop Fatman on Kokura. He flew boxcar over the city for nearly an hour with the bomb bay doors open, Sweeney couldn't achieve visual forced to go to the secondary target - Nagasaki, where 75,000 people died instead. Kokura was spared because of the clouds. We can build a weapon that mimics the furnace of our Sun predict the weather more than During World War 2 emperor in ways that made allied troops speechless. Kamikaze planes and torpedoes, lost after use. When outnumbered, without hope, Japanese soldiers were off clips or swam out to sea to drown rather than surrendered. Even after two atomic bomb attacks, urged his people to continue fighting. But on August 14th, 1945, the Emperor of Japan overruled that decision and unconditionally surrendered. Men had leapt of off cliffs for him, but in his own words, used cruel bombs. The heavy casualties are beyond measure. Richard Feynman received in 1965. He also helped develop at Los Alamos. &quot;Is science of any value?&quot; And below that, is of value.&quot; He elaborates by talking about keys. Everything we learned about discover within it, is a key to the gates of heaven. But the same key will also open the gates to hell. The Titan II Missile is great for delivering lethal nuclear warheads. But it also sent Gemini astronauts to space, preparing us for a mission to the Moon. Science doesn't tell us how to use keys. It finds them or predicts them. How we use keys is up to us. And as always, thanks for watching.