This saber is mine. It's mine! My saber! Let go. This saber is mine. No one can take it from me. Who are you?! Wudang sect's [name of move he just used]. I am Yu Daiyan from Wudang sect. May I ask what sect are you from? And why did you use such cruel techniques. I see wudang is also here to steal the saber. Steal the saber? I'm not interested in this saber. But my master taught me If I see injustice on the road then I must lend a hand and help This is none of your business. Step aside. Give me the saber and I will spare your life. No, the saber is mine. I will not hand over the saber even if I die. The Sea Sand clan is here. If you don't want to die, hand over the saber. Welcome home, 5th uncle. [Taoist phrase] Apprentices pay respects to master. Besides DaiYan, is everyone back home? Yes. Yes, master. Two more days and DaiYan will also come home. Speak. Speak. What kind of deeds have you brothers accomplished this time to celebrate my birthday? Master. We brought you a painting. Please take a look. Good, let me take a look. This pine tree. Was painted by Yuanqiao. The strokes are sturdy. The mountain... was painted by Lianzhou. The strokes are very strong. The strokes are flexible and emotional. The water was painted by Liting. The rocks were painted by Shenggu. Cuishan wrote the poem, [Name of poem, I think?] Excellent. [He talks about the painting some more and how the things painted by the seven brothers are related to the deeds that they have done over the past year.] These are things practitioners of martial arts should do. Don't come closer. Don't come closer. The poison has already penetrated your five organs. This is a potion from Wudang. Maybe it'll extend your life by three days. I suggest you take the saber to the Sea Sand clan and exchange for the antidote. It's the only way you'll live. I would rather die than exchange the saber for the antidote. You. You want to leave? If I want to leave, would you be able to stop me? I suggest you drink the medicine. Don't drink all of it! All right. Take care of yourself. Don't go. I will give you half of the Dragon Saber. Stop talking about the saber. You don't want it... because you don't know the extent of its power. &quot;Honored by the wulin the precious saber slays the dragon. It commands the world. Who dares to disobey?&quot; Have you heard of this mantra? Those words are only rumors in the jianghu. There's another set of words. &quot;If the Heavenly Sword doesn't appear, who can challenge it?&quot; This means that the Heavenly Sword can defeat the saber. So you can say... this Dragon Saber isn't really the best in the world. Watch out. Don't come near. Where's the Dragon Saber? Tell me where it is The saber is mine. It's mine. Don't think you will steal it from me. Where's the dragon saber? Quickly tell me where it is. Where's the dragon saber? Speak quickly! You still won't speak?! You guys... you guys are the Heavenly Eagle Cult. where's the Dragon saber? He had the dragon saber. Then where is it now? We've searched everywhere but can't find it. You guys must have hidden it! We wouldn't dare hide it from you. This person... had someone with martial arts from Wudang sect help him. Maybe the saber is in his hands. Speak. We really don't know where the dragon saber is right now. If we had known the Heavenly Eagle cult wanted the saber, we would've raised both our hands and surrendered from the start. We wouldn't dare hide it. Please have mercy on us. Why should I believe anything you say? Search. Search. Yewang. We can't find the saber. Follow the trail. Yes. Dragon saber. This precious treasure is an evil treasure in disguise. It has caused many people to die. The appearance of this saber has caused so much chaos in the jianghu and turned rivers into blood red. I must take it back to wudang and let master decide. Amazing qinggong. It's the [name of move he just used] of Wudang. Who is it? Judging from your age... you are the 3rd hero Yu of Wudang's seven heroes. Or maybe hero Zhang? I am Yu Daiyan. You've forced me on the boat. You must want to kill me to steal this Dragon saber. Hiding in the shadows... is not the way of an upright hero. Why don't you come out and fight me?! Who are you? My name is not worth mentioning. I've heard 3rd hero Yu is an upright hero. You've killed many troops to protect the innocent. We're both alike, you and I. I respect you. As long as you hand over the dragon saber I will spare your life. Such a powerful weapon in an evil person's hand, wouldn't I be harming the Wulin?! We can do this the easy way, or the hard way! You want the dragon saber? If this saber is in your hands you will only kill the innocents and cause harm to wulin. There will be more bloodshed. Why don't I just kill you right now?! Stop. Two thousand gold pieces. Will you accept this delivery? We've already told you. This delivery is too complicated. We also don't know the identity of this person. We won't accept. This is a difficult task. But these 2000 gold pieces are not easily earned. I have 3 conditions. First, you must personally lead the escort. Second, you must travel night and day, without rest. Within 10 days, you must travel from Lin An to Wudang in Xiang Yang. Hand the package directly to sect leader Zhang. Three, if anything goes wrong, I will kill every single person in your Dragon Gate Escort agency. Big brother Up ahead must be the base of wudang. The regions around Wudang are really peaceful. Today, we will finally get the chance to see their skills. My name is Du Dajin from the Dragon Gate Escort agency. May I ask the names of the six heroes? What is brother Du's purpose for today's visit to Wudang? I was tasked by someone to bring an injured person to this mountain to hand over to leader Zhang. Injured person? Who is the injured person? How was he injured? We really don't know. A person by the surname of Yin asked us to escort this delivery. A person surnamed Yin? What does this Yin person... look like? A handsome and elegant man. Why are you guys talking so much? Dragon Saber? What Dragon Saber? Brother Du, it's nothing. May I take a look at the injured person? It's 3rd brother Yu. You are... Brother Du, this is my 3rd brother Yu. He has been hurt really badly. I must take him back to Wudang. You are Wudang's seven heroes? It's an honor to meet you. It's just a little reputation, not worth mentioning. Anyway...thank you brother Du for traveling so far. Here's some water. May I ask a question? Are you guys from the Dragon Gate Escort agency? Yes. My name is Du Dajin. My name is Zhang Cuishan from Wudang. Big brother How come there's another 5th hero Zhang here? Are you really the 5th hero of Wudang? I dare not lie. I have one question I'd like to ask. Did you encounter any problems when you traveled along this road from Lin An? Why are you asking us that? My 3rd brother went out a while ago. He's supposed to be back by now Your 3rd brother is...is he 3rd hero Yu? Exactly, 3rd brother Yu Daiyan. Aren't the wudang heroes taking him up the mountain? Up the mountain? I just came from the top of the mountain, I saw no one else on the road. Where did you guys see my 3rd brother? I'm asking you one final time. Blink your eyes once for yes and blink your eyes twice for no. Is the dragon saber in the hands of the one surnamed Yin? Yes or no? You still won't talk? 3rd brother 3rd brother 3rd brother 3rd brother 3rd brother 3rd brother...you must survive. Anyone there?! Anyone there?! Master Someone attacked 3rd brother! Master...someone attacked 3rd brother! 3rd brother Daiyan Master Master, 3rd brother, he... this is...his limbs are broken, it's &quot;Shaolin's Golden Steel Fingers&quot; Master 3rd brother Master How is 3rd brother? Whether he survives or not, it will take one month before we'll know for certain. All of his joints are broken. I don't know how to save him. I'm afraid he will never be able to... walk again... There was also poison in 3rd brother's body, It was caused by these needles here. These small needles... this is also the first time I've seen them. Grandmaster, there are some people who want to see you. They said they're from Dragon Gate. They want to know the condition of 3rd uncle. -They still have the guts to come here?! Du Dajin Let me go. Let me teach them a lesson. I sincerely wanted to come and visit. Does Wudang have no manners? You still think you're innocent? We are really innocent. A client surnamed Yin gave us 2000 gold pieces. He wanted us to escort 3rd hero Yu to Wudang. You accepted the 2000 gold pieces from that person, Yet you didn't fulfill your promise and failed to escort my 3rd brother to Wudang. Let me tell you. I will never let you get away with this. 5th brother. Calm down for a second. I made a big mistake, I deserve death. Aren't we here to confess our mistake? If 3rd hero Yu is really dead, then Dragon Gate and its more than 70 people will die with him. 5th hero Zhang Are you... satisfied now? Leader Du... What do you mean? The surnamed Yin told us, if there are any problems, then he will not let anyone in my agency live. Seeing as how 5th hero Zhang has finished scolding us, We'll take it as our apology has been accepted. Hold it. My 3rd brother's life is worth more than a few words. How can I let it go that easily? Then do you heroes want to kill us to avenge your 3rd brother? Everyone look at this gold nugget. The prints on this look exactly like the injury marks on 3rd brother. You accepted this gold nugget and handed my 3rd brother over to someone evil, didn't you?! You! 5th brother. Master. It's &quot;Shaolin's Golden Steel Fingers&quot;. I remember now. The people who took 3rd hero Yu away that day. they asked me something about a Dragon Saber, Dragon Saber? What Dragon Saber?! How should I know? Calm down. Yiting, take 7th brother with you and go with the agency's leader to Lin An city, and protect the Dragon Gate agency and their family. Master. You...you want me to protect them? No need. Our agency's problems are none of Wudang's business. I know how to solve my own problems. Thank you for your kind gesture, sect leader Zhang. Farewell. Let's go. From what I know, there aren't that many people in Shaolin who know how to use &quot;Shaolin's golden steel fingers&quot;. The people who do know, are all enlightened leaders. They definitely would never do something cruel like this. Master. This situation must be related to Shaolin. That Du Dajin was also a student of Shaolin. Are you saying your 3rd brother was injured by the Dragon Gate agency? Should we force them back here and get even with them? Are their families also guilty? Maybe they didn't harm 3rd brother. But it's obvious they're involved somehow. Perhaps this has something to do with the Dragon Saber? &quot;Honored by the wulin, the precious saber slays the dragon. It commands the world. Who dares to disobey?&quot; This mantra has been spreading around the jianghu for several decades now. But the saber hasn't been seen for a long time. The Dragon Saber finally appears again and already a bunch of crazy people are after it. That's obvious. Maybe Shaolin is afraid of our martial arts becoming more powerful than theirs So they are also after the saber. Yuanqiao. Master. Tomorrow you take 4th brother with you to Shaolin. Ask the leaders there, &quot;has anyone ever secretly learned the &quot;Shaolin Golden Steel Fingers&quot;?&quot; Remember. You must behave properly. And be careful. Don't forget I also came from Shaolin. Yes, master. I will remember master's words. Master. I want to go to Lin An to investigate the dragon saber. And find out more about that Yin person. I must investigate who injured and poisoned 3rd brother Yu. i think interrogating that Yin person will lead to more clues. 3rd brother. it pains me to look at all your injuries out of the 7 brothers, we're the closest. when I was younger, I was naughty and got punished often. You were the only one who pleaded for me. Even master has said, out of the 7 brothers, you have the most compassion. The god above blesses you. You will definitely get better. Rest assured. The person who injured you... I will definitely find him. I promise you... I will definitely report back to you. 3rd brother Wait for my return. Wudang's Zhang Cuishan asks for an audience. Zhang Cuishan. Zhang Cuishan. You are really evil. and you killed my whole family! It's you, it's you. I didn't kill them. I just got here. Zhang Cuishan. It has come to this and you're still lying!? You got the wrong person! Dajin! Uncles, he is Wudang's Zhang Cuishan. He just killed my whole family. Zhang Cuishan, you are really cruel. Tonight, you will repay blood with blood! Stop fighting! I really didn't kill them! Everyone listen to me. I really didn't kill them. Stop the nonsense. Tonight, you will repay with your life. Du Dajin got the wrong person! Let's all stop for a second, and get everything sorted out. Stop talking. Wudang has killed people from Shaolin, Brother! Stop fighting. The murderer is still here. Sorry. Please forgive me. Why are you on my boat in the middle of the night? I am Wudang's Zhang Cuishan. I was looking for an important person, so in a haste I came on your boat. It really was an accident. I'm sorry. And have you found the person? No. Have you seen anyone suspicious around? I'm the only one on this boat. May I ask what is your name? It's raining outside, please go back in your boat. Farewell. Please wait. Why has the poem on my umbrella changed the expression on your face? [they discuss the poem, its author, and the way the chinese characters are written] I still have an important matter to attend, I won't bother you anymore. Until we meet again. My surname is Yin. If fate brings us together again, I hope you'll teach me some more poetry. Your surname is Yin?! Miss Yin. Do you know my 3rd brother Yu Daiyan? Only one day of listening to you is worth more than 10 years of reading books. Thank you for the lesson. It's nothing, you overestimate me. I still have an important matter to attend. I won't bother you anymore. I hope to see you again. My surname is Yin. If fate brings us together again, i hope you'll teach me some more poetry. Your surname is Yin?! Miss Yin. Do you know my 3rd brother Yu Daiyan? Please don't blame me. I feel doubtful right now so I wanted to ask you some questions to clear things up. You must ask questions? Did you commission the Dragon Gate Escort agency to carry my 3rd brother back to Wudang? I will definitely... repay your kindness. Kindness or injustice... it's hard to say. My 3rd brother was attacked by an unknown assailant at the base of mount Wudang. Do you know about it? I'm really heartbroken and full of regrets. Do you know who killed the people in the Dragon Gate? Why don't we go inside to shelter from the rain first? Du Dajin wasn't the only one who made a mistake. I also made a mistake. I should've thought of it sooner. Wudang's seven heroes are respected throughout the jianghu. Why would they use poison? Do you recognize these hidden weapons? These are Shaolin's Plum Flower darts. Exactly. Except these are coated with poison. Shaolin is a very reputable upright sect. They would never use poison. Who caused you this injury? I was afraid the Dragon Gate Escort agency would encounter problems on the road so I secretly followed them as backup. At the base of mount Wudang, six people suddenly appeared disguising as Wudang's six heroes. Du Dajin handed them 3rd hero Yu and proceeded to travel back home. I felt there was something wrong so I quickly followed them. Who are you guys? I am Wudang's Yuanqiao. And these are my brothers. You're lying. You guys are not Wudang's seven heroes. Wudang's heroes love each other like brothers. 3rd hero Yu is in critical condition and none of you are concerned for him at all. You're more interested in the Dragon Saber. Speak. Why did you guys disguise as Wudang's seven heroes? May I ask Miss, how are you related to Yu Daiyan? I... If there's no relation then please don't interfere in other people's business. But I want to interfere. Thank you for risking your life trying to save my 3rd brother. Unfortunately I wasn't able to rescue him. Who were those people? I don't know. I just know these Plum Flower darts are a specialty of Shaolin. That's really weird. 3rd brother Yu's joints were also broken by &quot;Shaolin's Golden Steel Fingers&quot; of Shaolin sect. When I returned to Lin An, I figured out Du Dajin was a student of Shaolin, So I went to Dragon Gate to ask for the antidote. But unexpectedly when I arrived, I encountered Du Dajin and also people from Shaolin. They wanted to kill me. So you killed everyone in the agency? It's their fault. First they caused harm to 3rd hero Yu and then they wanted to kill me. Still, you can't just kill innocent people. Do you suppose I should've done nothing and wait for death? You could've explained it to them. Do you think I could've explained it? Even you were wrongly accused at the agency. Could you have explained it? So the hidden person was you? Yes. Why did you harm the Shaolin people? And made me look like a killer? Would I still be able to explain it? They were the ones who used hidden weapons on me! I was only trying to help you. How can you blame me? Miss Yin. There's something I still don't understand. Why did they say I was the killer as soon as they saw me? It's a long story. When I was traveling from Wudang back to Lin an, coincidentally there was a flood. The citizens there were very pitiful. I also saw you fighting Du Dajin. Agency leader Du. I can't stand the way you're just sitting here eating and drinking. If you don't use the 2000 gold pieces to help the citizens of this region, then I will go to Dragon Gate and kill every single one of you. Did you say that? Yes, I said it. But I was just trying to scare them. I was never going to harm anyone. I had never met anyone kind like you. I admire you very much. So from that point on I followed you in secret. I also thought the clothes you wore were really pretty. So I bought a similar outfit to wear. That's why you dressed like me and barged into Dragon Gate in the middle of the night. They didn't see your appearance clearly, they only saw your clothes. So they thought I was the killer. I...I didn't intend to frame you. You didn't do it on purpose but you still harmed me. You and Dragon Gate aren't mortal enemies, yet you killed all of them. What you did was very cruel. I... Are you trying to lecture me? Never in my life have I been lectured. Yes, I know 5th hero Zhang is very kind and righteous and I am evil and heartless. How can we ever be friends? 5th hero Zhang, please leave. Miss Yin. I want to help you cure your poison. I don't need it. I'm an evil person. I don't deserve your help. You've been poisoned for a long time now. It will be harder to cure if we wait any longer. I'm afraid you will lose your arm. So what? It's all your fault anyway. What does this have to do with me? You've clearly been injured by Shaolin's darts. If I hadn't traveled thousands of miles to deliver your 3rd brother to mount wudang then I wouldn't have encountered those 6 evil people. If I did nothing when they took your 3rd brother, would I injured right now? If you had arrived sooner to lend a hand, would I be in this situation right now? You're right. I'll help you right now to repay your kindness. Admit you were wrong? Admit what? Wrong about what? You said that I was cruel and merciless. Of course you were wrong. Those Shaolin monks and Du Dajin derserved to die. Miss Yin. Although you've been poisoned, your life is not in any danger. My 3rd brother is injured but he probably won't die. Even if we can't cure him, we should at least find the main cuplrit. You've killed too many innocent people. That's wrong. Killed the wrong people?! Isn't it true that the people who used the Plum Flower darts part of Shaolin? And isn't it true that the people of Dragon Gate are disciples of Shaolin? The world is filled with Shaolin disciples. Someone used 3 darts to injure your arm and you want to kill every Shaolin disciple? You... What are you doing? It doesn't concern you. I want to die. How is that your business? Go away. I don't need your help. I've never seen such a stubborn girl in my life. Well you've seen one today. I just wanted to test your limits. You are really stubborn. You hit me? I'm not afraid. Come. Let me apply the medicine. Please roll up your sleeves. If we don't cure this injury right now, your life will be in danger. What does my life have to do with you? I must repay you for sending my 3rd brother back. You mean you're saving me because you're just trying to repay a debt? If I hadn't saved your 3rd brother, you would'ved just watched me die? Not necessarily. Give me your hand. Don't joke around with your life. If you don't admit that you're wrong, then I won't let you help me. Fine. I was wrong. What's with that tone? It sounds like you're not sincere. Fine. With the Heaven above and river below as my witness. Today, Zhang Cuishan, wholeheartedly apologize to Yin... Yin... Yin Susu Yin Susu. And seek her forgiveness. How do you feel? Now there's a pain in my chest. It's because you didn't apologize sooner. If I die... it will be all your fault. 5th brother Zhang. I was very rude to you just now, and even hit you. Please don't be offended. The poison has been forced out. If you continue to use a bit more of my antidote then I won't be offended. Thank you. You're welcome. Take care of yourself. Farewell. Your injury looks much better now. Take care. Until we meet again. Welcome people of the jianghu to the Dragon Saber unveiling ceremony of the Heavenly Eagle cult. Please welcome our sect leader, Miss Yin Susu. We've recently acquired a precious saber. The jianghu calls it the Dragon Saber. Dragon Saber?! We planned this meeting so that heroes everywhere can see our Dragon Saber. Miss Yin, please unveil the saber. &quot;Honored by the wulin the precious saber slays the dragon. It commands the world. Who dares to disobey? Besides the unveiling of the saber today, I have one more matter to announce. Everyone listen carefully. From here on out, Sea Sand clan is no more. Divine Fist clan. Huge Whale clan. Jiangnan will now only have the Heavenly Eagle cult. Sect leader Yin, what do you mean by that? I mean, from now on you guys must obey the Heavenly Eagle cult. You must follow all of our orders. You guys are always bullying us. Now you're forcing us into a corner. Don't you think that's too much? Well spoken! We... would rather die than follow your orders. Looks like I don't have any other choice. Branch leader Bai. Agree with us and live, disagree with us and die. Anyone else still don't want to submit? Anyone who doesn't want to join Heavenly Eagle cult, stand on one side. Wait. 5th hero Zhang. What a coincidence. Why are you here? This Dragon Saber is related to my 3rd brother's situation. Of course I have to investigate it. Where did you find this saber? This saber... I stole this saber from a random soldier. Stole it? Then let me ask you... It's bad! It's bad! What's the problem? The boats... The boats are ruined. Who did it? Excellent saber. So it's elder Xie. Our cult has no relation with you. Why have you killed our people? That saber... belongs to us. Did you guys make this saber? You stole this saber from someone. Now it's in my hands so it belongs to me. It's fair. I'm going to say it one more time. That saber belongs to our cult. I want to leave with this saber. Does anyone object? Elder Xie. You're famous throughout the world. Of course the saber should belong to you. Everyone here agrees. You are Yuan Changbao, leader of the Sea Sand clan, right? Yes. Who is my teacher? What sect do I belong to? What kind of deeds have I done? Well... You don't even know these things. And you dare to say I am famous throughout the world? What a bunch of gibberish. I absolutely despise people like you. Last year you killed Zhang Dengyun and his family in the town of Yu Tao. And just last month, you killed Sea Gate sect's OuYang Qin. Am I correct? And you are Guo Sanquan, the leader of the Divine Fist sect, right? I am indeed Guo Sanquan. How are you, elder Xie. Who is Cui Fei Yan to you? She's my sister-in-law. Your sister-in-law? You failed to rape her and then killed her. Am I telling the truth?! There's also leader Mai of the Huge Whale clan. Last May, you plundered a ship. You threw hundreds of innocent passengers overboard and left them to drown. You even raped the seven women aboard the ship. Don't you think that is way too cruel?! I'm a reasonable man. You three fight me all at once. If you guys win you can leave. But if you lose, this day next year will be your death anniversary. Rest assured. I won't use the Dragon Saber. That way you will have a chance against me. You guys followed these men blindly. You all deserve to die. Elder Xie. You and these people have no prior grudges. Why do you want to kill them? All of these people have done something bad. They've all killed someone. So they must all die. Are you saying death is the only punishment for what these people have done? Correct. Then you killing them makes you no different than them. Not the same. My kung fu level is high, theirs is low. The strong prevails over the weak. That's the difference. Elder Xie. I know your kung fu level is high but I still want to tell you Humans and animals are different. We can tell the difference between right and wrong. If the strong always oppress the weak, then how are we different from animals? We are all practitioners of kung fu. We are supposed to fight evil and help the weak. Your kung fu is unparalleled. I really respect you. If you use your kung fu to help the weak then that's the fortune of the people. Help the weak? Why should I help the weak? If you do good deeds, then you're on the side of justice. Good deeds lead to good fortune. Bad deeds lead to bad fortune. Bullshit! Do you really believe there's such a thing in the wulin? It's hard to understand the workings of Heaven. We can only try our best to be righteous. The resulting good or bad fortune is out of our control. What's your name? My name is Zhang Cuishan of Wudang. I can't believe Wudang is also here to steal the Dragon Saber. We're not interested in stealing the Dragon Saber. But this saber is related to my 3rd brother's injuries. I see Zhang Sanfeng's disciples are just mediocre. I guess there's no reason to pay him a visit after all. Your kung fu is extremely powerful but still nowhere near my master's level. Stop talking. A man can't be afraid of death. He can talk trash about me but he can't disrespect my sect. Zhang Sanfeng created the sect. There must be something extraordinary about him. 5th hero Zhang. What's your special attack? I'm quite interested to see it. Elder Xie. You already got your Dragon Saber. You don't have to fight anymore. You two lovers are a perfect pair. And I really don't want to. But it has already come to this, I have to kill everyone here including you two. What do you mean by that? If I let anyone here live, then within a few days the whole world will know I have the Dragon Saber. Many people will come to take the saber away from me. So you had planned on killing everyone here from the start? Correct. You're younger than me so I'll give you a break. Weapons. [ ] qinggong, hidden weapons, inner power You can use whatever you want. I'll agree to anything. You have to commit suicide if you lose. Then if you lose you have to commit suicide, right? How can I lose? Get ready to fight me. Elder Xie. Since you're forcing me to compete then I can only comply If I lose, my life is yours to decide. But if I'm lucky enough to win I hope you'll grant me one request. Say it. Are you crazy? How can you hand your life over to him like that? What are you competing with him? Are you sure you'll win? No. I can only try my best. If you think you'll lose later we should find a way to run away. Don't worry about me anymore. You run away first. As far away from here as possible. No. I won't leave you here alone. Elder Xie. If I win, everyone... I won't lose! What do you want to compete? Compete in... Writing. [Poem] &quot;Honored by the wulin the precious saber slays the dragon. It commands the world. Who dares to disobey? If the Heavenly Sword doesn't appear, who can challenge it?&quot; Inspirational. Incredible. I can't write like that. I accept defeat. Elder Xie, you've lost. Don't go back on your promise. 5th hero Zhang's kung fu pairs well with his writing. He figured out his own style. I've never seen anything like it. Admirable. Very admirable. I've lost. What's your demand? I wouldn't dare demand anything. But I do have a simple request. Please spare everyone on this island. You may have everyone here swear that they don't reveal your secret. I have never in my life believed in anyone's promise. What do you mean? Are you going back on your promise? So what? I can spare you two. But not the others here. Forgive me, I'm going to temporarily disable you two. Elder Xie. You ruined all the boats on the island. How are they going to leave? Let them kill themselves on the island. Isn't that good? You're really capable. You found a whole boat with deaf mute sailors. What's so hard about that? First, I looked for illiterate sailors and then I shattered their hearing. Then I fed them some drugs to make them mute. Wasn't that a good idea? When we return to the mainland, I will blind them. What happened? Where's Miss Yin? Dragon Saber And Xie Xun? What happened here? [Poem] The author was really open minded. Right. [Poem] Are you thinking of your master? How do you know? I can tell by looking at your face. [Chinese proverb] Besides Zhang Sanfeng, there's no one else who would fit your poem. You're really smart. Frankly speaking, your master is very virtuous and his kung fu is also excellent. I hope someday I'll get the chance to meet him. If you want to meet him, when we return to the mainland I can take you up to mount Wudang. Really? Wudang is a righteous sect. Aren't you afraid of an evil witch like me tarnishing the reputation of Wudang? We're going the wrong direction. The way back to the mainland is west. But we're going east. Elder Xie. Our boat is going the wrong direction. Central plains is in the west but our boat is going toward the east. Keep going east. It's correct. There is only water to the east. What are we going to do there? Hurry up and tell them to change direction. I've told you guys from the very beginning. After getting this saber, I want to find a quiet place to think. Why is it honored by the wulin? Why it can rule the world? The central plains is a treacherous place. If the jianghu people find out that I have the Dragon Saber they will keep coming after me to try and steal it. That would be very annoying. So that's why I want to find a quiet area without a lot of people. ELder Xie. You can find a secluded area but you must take us back first. If I take you guys back, my location would be divulged. Elder Xie, what do you have planned for us? I just want you two to live with me on the island. What if you can't figure out the secret after 8 or 10 years? Then you guys will have to live with me for 8 or 10 years. If I never figure it out, then you'll have to live with me forever. Forever? How is that possible? I noticed it on the island. When you guys were in danger the words you spoke revealed your intimate feelings toward each other. You two are a perfect match for each other. How about becoming husband and wife on the island and have kids? Wouldn't that be nice? Elder Xie. Stop joking. Take a look at Miss Yin's face. It shows I haven't mispoken a single word. Elder Xie. You should know about my reputation. I'm willing to swear to Heaven. I will not divulge anything I've seen or heard today with anyone. I don't trust anyone. I made a promise when I was 28. Look at my finger. That year the person I trusted the most the person I respected the most in my life raped my wife and killed my whole family. So I cut off my finger and made a promise. For as long as I live, I will never trust a single person again. Elder Xie. Then have you already avenged your family? The person who killed my family is better than me at kung fu. I can't beat him. If it weren't for that tragedy, I wouldn't have stolen the Dragon Saber. I wouldn't try so hard to find its secret. Because of my tragedy, I have complicated your lives. You guys are a perfect match. Just come with me to a secluded island and live a carefree life. That's not so bad, right? I... I didn't mean to. We need to figure out a way to subdue him then we can escape. You want to sneak attack... Sneak attack?... That's not something an upright man would do. It's just that our kung fu is inferior to his. In a moment, I will go wake him up. I will challenge him to a duel. You stand on the side and help me with your hidden weapons. But you must not use poison. We're already fighting two against one. Don't make it more unfair. If you guys sneak attack me, you may have a tiny chance of winning. Yet you just had to insist on maintaining your righteous image and want to fight me openly. You're just asking for trouble. All right. Come! Let's have a duel. Elder Xie, please don't harm him! Attack him! Please don't harm him! Don't dare. Young lady, it's best you don't do anything. If I change my palm into a fist, I'll break all the bones in his body. Let's see if it'll break your heart. Don't! What are you waiting for? Elder Xie. I promise we'll follow you. Please let go of him. If you guys are telling the truth then I will spare you. We won't disobey you. Please let go of him. I'm begging you. Make the promise in his place. Attack. Make the promise. 5th brother Zhang. We are not his match. Why don't we live with him on the island for a few years? I'll make the promise in his place. I, Yin Susu and Zhang Cuishan agree to live with Elder Xie until he figures out the secret of the Dragon Saber. If we go back on our promise let us die under a saber or sword. Practitioners of kung fu dying under a sword, what's so special? Okay, okay. If we go back on our promise then let me die before the age of 20. Release your palm. Okay. 5th brother. 5th brother. Are you okay? Xie Xun, If anything happens to him, I'll fight you to the death! He was able to endure my palm for that long, Wudang disciples' kungfu really is extraordinary. Don't worry. He won't die. Are you okay? Why didn't you attack him? I... You damned Heaven! I've only just gotten the Dragon Saber to avenge my family. Why are you treating me like this? Look. It looks like he's going mental. Why? Why is he like that? Are we going to die? No. We definitely won't. It's because I've done too many misdeeds. Heaven is punishing me. Stop thinking like that. The weather on the sea is erratic. No one can do anything about it. You damned Heaven. I hate you! I'm not afraid of you. I'll fight you to the death. Let me go. You are that evildoer. You killed my wife. I'm going to kill your wife. Let me go. I want you to repay blood with blood. Be careful. 5th brother. My eyes! I'm going to kill you! Susu Save me! Susu Susu Susu Susu Susu Susu Susu Susu Wake up! Susu! Susu! Susu You can't die. Can't die. You can't die! Can't die. Susu You can't die. Susu Susu How are you? You're okay now. I'm really scared. Abbess... are you lost? This is a brothel. Not a temple. We don't hire you people. Even more, we don't serve you people. Please turn back. First, I'm not here to drink tea. Second, I'm not here to become a prostitute. I'm here to look for someone. Shan Shetan of Heavenly Eagle cult. Call him out. There's too many trees on these two islands. They might be hiding here. Have you searched there? Sect leader. We've already searched those first two islands. There's so many islands, isn't it like trying to find a needle in a haystack? What needle in a haystack? Judging from the direction of the wind at that time, the boat must have sailed north. Even if we have to search every island on the map, you must find my sister and Xie Xun. Sect leader. Miejue is here. If I find my student and there's a single hair missing on her, even in death you won't find peace. Search! Yes. I was late to welcome Abbess. My apologies. You stinky brat. Stop talking nonsense. I've heard Emei's disciples are all beautiful girls. Today I'm lucky enough to meet them. I can't believe Abbess is breaking your vow today. You brought all your students to this brothel to satisfy me. Abbess, Why don't you and your students change profession and become prostitutes here to help the needy? You! Sect leader. Sect leader. Sister Ding! Sister Ding! Sister Ding! Sister Ding! Sister Ding! Sister Ding! This is a dead end. Everyone look. This looks like a stone door. Stone door? It won't open. What should we do? Maybe there's a hidden button around here. Everyone look around. It's open. Sister Ding! Sister Ding! Sister Ding! Let's go. You're okay. Thank goodness. We finally found you. I thought I would never see you again. It's because of your stupidity. You were careless and you didn't come back me up fast enough. You got me kidnapped. Sister Ding! Leader Yin. Dad! Are you Yin Tianzheng? Your reputation is indeed true. You and your disciples disregard death like it's nothing. Luckily I stopped in time. Otherwise he would've died already. Abbess...how would you live with yourself? Dealing with evil you must also be unfair. Everyone knows this. You're an evil cult you can't look down on me. You still won't stand up? You want me to do it for you? Step aside. Do you know why my name is MieJue? A religious person who takes up an evil name like that. It's really hard to understand. Please enlighten me. MieJue is my promise to the world. &quot;To deal with evildoers, kill and eliminate all.&quot; Without emotions. My cult is good or evil, outsiders can't just guess it willynilly. If you really have the capability Why don't you investigate what happened that day at the unveiling ceremony? Instead you brought all your disciples here and caused a ruckus. You're just making things difficult for yourself. It won't end well for you. Looks like we can't avoid the fighting today. I've never bullied women. I will cede to you 3 moves. After you. A dog looking down on people. [A chinese proverb?] I hope you won't regret it. Dad. Leader. Master. Abbess MieJue. Looks like we won't be able to decide the winner today. You've already rescued your student. Why don't we stop right here? You're right. Let's go. You want to go?! Stop! You animal. How could you take it this far? Kidnapping a female disciple and even hid her in this brothel! Tarnishing the dignity of women is not something a hero would do. Dad. They were the ones who caused a ruckus. That's why I had to use this tactic. I really haven't done anything to them. Stop lying! One minute you're telling me you made this brothel to hide from the government and to gather news. The next minute you're bullying women and turning this brothel into a prison. As of now, destroy this brothel. Don't ever step foot in another brothel. Dad. Master. Master. Master. If I hadn't lost our Heavenly Sword last year, combined with Emei's kung fu we would've definitely extermiated those evil people. Master. Your kung fu is the best in the world. You don't really need the Heavenly Sword to be effective. It's only because I'm still a beginner. If only it weren't for your lack of kungfu knowledge you would've never been kidnapped by those evil people. Xiaofu. Tell your sisters. What's the best way to effectively combine Emei's kungfu with the Heavenly Sword? Master. Honestly, I was just speaking without thinking that day. I'm not too sure of the secrets behind it. You just don't want to embarass your sisters. [Chinese proverb] Even though you're the youngest disciple and you joined the sect the latest, you have the most potential. You all must learn from your sister. Understand? Yes. Don't give up. Susu. Don't give up. Endure. 5th brother. If we continue floating North the water will only get colder. If this continues we will freeze to death. We won't. Never let go, Rose. As long as we don't give up there is a chance. Don't give up. Iceberg, iceberg, iceberg, Iceberg. Let's get on that iceberg. Endure it just a bit. 5th brother 5th brother. Are you okay? I'm ok. I just need to rest a bit. Although we're not in the freezing water anymore, but the ocean is vast we don't know where we're floating Looks like it's almost the end for us If the Heaven above... already granted us this iceberg then it must want us to live. Trust me. We will definitely overcome this obstacle Susu Susu Susu It's an island It's really an island Do you see it? I see it! I really do see an island! 5th brother We're not going to die We'll be able to survive on the island 5th brother This place is really weird Clearly this whole area is covered in snow but in the middle of this snow and ice there exists a volcano. The hot and cold can coexist peacefully on this island That's really special. This place is secluded and wild. It's also really far from central plains. I'm afraid we won't be able to return anymore. I don't want to return at all. 5th brother I want to ask you something. Please don't lie to me. If we were still in central plains and never went through an obstacle together would you still treat me like this? I don't know. Susu Between us... Good and evil are not compatible. You know, My master might not agree with us being together. Maybe your father also won't agree to let us be together. And we... I thought so too... On the boat that day when you were dueling Xie Xun there were many times I wanted to use my hidden weapons but in the end I didn't. Why? I thought you were afraid of accidentally hitting me. No. If I were to harm him that day we would've been able to escape back to central plains. You wouldn't be by my side anymore. Maybe you want to blame me. Actually, I kept thinking of you after you left the boat that night in Lin An But I know Good and evil can never be together. I was afraid I would never see you again. The only thing I could do was try to forget you. But I didn't expect that you would turn up at the saber unveiling ceremony. And even more unexpected, we would be kidnapped onto a boat by Xie Xun. That moment, I only wished to stay with you forever. To arrive on a secluded island and take care of each other forever. So even though Xie Xun forced us to go, I didn't mind it at all. Susu You risked your life to save me. How can I blame you? That day when we fell into the ocean. I had only one thought in mind. That thought was &quot;I must save you no matter what.&quot; Really? Really. When I saved you and realized you were still alive I was really happy. I don't think... I've ever been that happy in my life. Maybe it's fate. From now on, Zhang Cuishan and Yin Susu no longer exist in this world. We will also pay no attention to the problems between the sects. Maybe we'll have to live on this island forever. Then we'll just stay here. We'll never separate. Really? You really... want to... live with me forever? Marry me. Be my wife. Let me take care of you. Come. The Heavens above as witness, Zhang Cuishan will marry Yin Susu today. [Chinese wedding vow similar to Christianity's &quot;in health and in sickness, til death do us part, etc.&quot;] If we somehow make it back to the central plains, I, Yin Susu, will definitely change her ways. I will help the needy. I will not kill anymore. Should I violate this oath, let the heaven and earth punish me. Really? 5th brother, look. There's water here. There's drinkable water here. This river must have formed from the melted snow of the mountain. This island has a snowy mountain and a volcano that never stops flaring. We... Ice Fire Island. Okay, let's call it the Ice Fire Island. 5th brother, look at that. There's a rabbit over there. Susu, be careful. Hurry Susu, stop chasing it. It's too fast. 5th brother, look. There's a cave there. Come on Let's go take a look. Susu It's much warmer in here. Yeah. Look, there's water over there. I was afraid we'd have to sleep on the snowy mountain. This is good. There's nothing to be afraid of now. Yeah. The heaven blesses us. I'm going to look for wood and make fire. The heaven is really helping us. Looks like... we have a home now. We have a home now. Master I've interrupted your rest. Forgive me. I just couldn't sleep. Master, you always worry about the world. You couldn't eliminate the Heavenly Eagle cult yesterday, of course you'd be in a sad mood and can't sleep. Master you must take better care of your health. Xiaofu You're really smart You're just like me when I was younger. I don't mind telling you. Master I'm still young and inexperienced. How could I accept this huge responsibility? What's wrong, master? Nothing It was just a small rabbit. Small rabbit? No wait.... It was really big. It's the biggest one. Big sister... Does she pick on you often? No Your big sister was eavesdropping on us just now. I deliberately spoke loud enough for her to hear me say that you'll become the leader. So that hopefully she'll respect you a bit. Master You scared me to death just now. I actually thought you wanted me to become leader for real. What did you say? An Emei disciple without ambition. What a waste. Master It's not that I don't want to accept the responsibility. I'm just afraid I'm not worthy. I'm afraid of ruining Emei's reputation. That would be a big crime. Susu Welcome home. Are you tired? No What a big fish. We get to eat fish today. You're incredible! It's Xie Xun. 5th brother, 5th brother Don't be scared. Look. He doesn't have any strength left. Plus he's blind. The two of us should be able to deal with him, right? 5th brother Let's just go. It would be bad if he wakes up and go crazy again. Let him rot here. Susu We must save him. Have you forgotten? You promised not to kill a single human again. I'm not killing anyone! Is there a difference between ignoring a dying man and killing a person? Come.