I am standing on Greenland's ice sheet and this is the sound of it melting. Here's one of the innumerable so-called moulins and we don't know a lot about what This is CrowdScience from the BBC World the earth to answer your science questions. I'm a climatologist. Right now we're in one of the most the climate conference in Egypt this year. This is by your listener questions and David in the UK So we're here in Greenland, home to one of the This ice sheet that I'm standing on is Ground Zero in the story of thawing. Greenland is melting fast and that's largely much faster than the rest of the world - four Well the amount of meltwater here has doubled in the last 50 years. And that's what I can see in front of me. Rivers of water passing off this ice sheet and down into the sea below. The last two decades Greenland was the leading contributor to sea level rise. Prior to that were mountain glaciers and after Greenland will be Antarctica, And that has consequences for people all around the world who'll never visit here. We'll come back to this spot in a bit. We started this journey as all good adventures start - getting our kit ready and provisions packed back in the southern Greenlandic town of I love this little room that we're working in, it's the room that we're just taking over with all of There's dozens of these metal boxes, none of which You're not taking all of this onto the ice are you? Most of this will go on ice. We have four days that we're planning to work and something like 10 stations to visit so it's Our guide for much of this episode is Jason Box, a climate scientist from the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland. He's in charge of this team. This is already my 28th year travelling to Greenland doing some of the same work and that is installing If there was one thing that we had to measure it's the melting at the surface because of course that's the big issue with Why dedicate so many years of your life to research in Greenland specifically? I sense that it's important to be part of understanding climate because the climate warming it really is intensifying up here. You've probably heard the Arctic is now warming four times faster than the globe, so very noticeable over that 28 years. The other answer is it's really exciting to look at this incredible landscape and see things with our own eyes and that's when we really that aren't included in the computer models that Looking at the maps on the wall behind us and I'm assuming that all of that white stuff is part of the massive Greenland ice sheet? Yeah and you'll notice that on a number of these maps which are from the 1980s these maps are really out of date because the ice is retreating out of the water, it's retreating on How big is the Greenland ice sheet? Greenland ice sheet is like three and a half north [to] south. So when you stand at the edge infinite view or all the way to the horizon but it's possible for humans to appreciate Okay so we're in the helicopter. We're just and oh my Lord, we're at the start of the ice amazingly and it's gone from these dark mountains whiteness, this white land that stretches off into The surface isn't smooth. It's a really rugged-looking, pitted surface. And it's a beautiful sunny day out here. This is absolutely magical. Wow. The Greenland ice sheet is massive but it's Most of the world's ice is round the other side of the world in Antarctica. While Greenland's ice sheet is roughly the size While I do a bit more staring in or out the window, from the Danish Meteorological Institute, who differs from your standard glacier and are either People used to talk about ice caps when they actually meant sea ice. So sea ice forms every year, so it's really it's just sea water that has frozen. A glacier is land ice, into ice through the decades and the millennia as like a big frozen lake that starts to flow really big glacier that covers the underlying cap is somewhere between a glacier and ice sheet. mountain and it's sort of flatish on top but it's So just like you can get your coffee in small, medium and large, you can get your giant bodies of ice as glaciers, then ice caps, then ice sheets. Earlier in the about 11,000 years ago, ice sheets and glaciers Today we've got just two ice sheets on the chillier ends of the globe: Antarctica and up north in Greenland. That means a lot of ice has disappeared over the David wants to know is: How long might it take what Jason and his team in Greenland are here to Oh woah I can see them. I'm waving. Yeah there's no crevasses here but be careful Look for the dark spots. You're fine. Okay. That was a quick safety explanation from our pilot Pilu on how to avoid wet boots or a crevasse after which Jason took over and explained exactly where we were on this massive expanse We're on the southern Greenland ice sheet on something we call the Q transect. At this elevation we're about 3,000 feet thick of ice. This is an extraordinary landscape. I don't think I've ever been anywhere like this. There are dunes made of this ice and it's bits of it of blue, there's kind of dark mucky as far as the eye can see and it's just Now to be able to answer the question 'When will Jason and his team are collecting. My name is Jakob Jakobsen. We are measuring the snow height, how much the snow accumulates and then it's gonna melt again. We are measuring the ice going down and we do that using different methods. What like double, triple checking that they're all doing it right? Yeah, then we are measuring temperature, humidity and doing the wind speed and wind direction. What happens to all of that data? The data is transmitted back to the office and then distributed on an open access basis. What so scientists around the world get to play with that data, put it into models and then the final bit out of all of this data that you're recording is people are going to get more If you go all the way down the line: Is the Greenland ice sheet melting or is it not? Or is it losing mass or is it not losing mass? So by adding together all the different measurements here on the ground the results are unequivocal: Greenland is losing ice. But how long before it loses the lot? A question Good news is it's not going to happen immediately, it'll take a long time. There is more than seven metres of sea level rise if all of Greenland melted. However, even a small fraction raise sea level 2.4 feet. That's already a So a lot of climate scientists use models I mean the existing ice sheet models are still not we come out here and visit these places. I mean the models are producing. So that's a good example So we've got two very different time scales going ice on Greenland to melt and as Jason says that's But then we've got water gushing off the ice sheet that has consequences for those of us alive today. actually happening? Well the problem with models is melting the ice. One factor that I'd never thought colour of the ice sheet, how light or dark it is Martyn Tranter from Aarhus University studies on my way to Greenland. They just happened Cryosphere being a term for all the parts Martyn has led projects called Black and Bloom and not rock bands, where his team studies what's Over the last 20-30 years the greenland ice western margin. The western margin where the ice In about 2012 a bunch of us were on the ice sheet while I was having a cup of tea and I thought and I thought the ice sheet surface looked alive and I said to a couple of the people that I was with I or microbes growing in this surface and everybody But Martyn was right. What he was seeing was algae on the ice. They're purple because they've got their own built-in sun tan. They have a purple dye called purpurogallin organisms inside the cell from being fried What are they doing there? If I was a tiny, tiny singular cellular plant I'd want to grow somewhere warm with a decent source of nutrients, maybe some soil maybe somewhere in the south of France, I don't Everywhere at the Earth's surface wherever surfaces are no different and they're specially they're like little carbon factories. They've got a just like the plants in your garden How did they get there? The microbiologists are not 100 per cent sure how they move from glacier to glacier to glacier. It's almost certainly testing that out and I'm as confident as can be atmosphere because if you think about ice algae the centre of the ice sheet down to the margins, to the edge of the ice sheet. So all the yet the ice flow and the melt water movement just get back and the only way I can think that they And the reason why it's so important to find their home on this glacier is because they're Dark things absorb more sunlight than white things and in Greenland in the summer there's 24 hours of sunlight and the UV radiation is very very high so and they can melt just a little bit more water and that's great for the ice algae but so much ice that it's accelerating the rate the sea level rise and at the moment we think they're increasing the melt rate of Wow, they're quite a significant factor. They're doing some serious damage. Well are they doing some serious melting yeah they certainly are. We think the future of the Greenland ice sheet so there are going to be more melting ice surfaces to be colonised by ice algae. And the question If it's one million, then it's going to be darker than the them per mil of ice melt, then they're still Is there any way of getting rid of them? The reason I'm slightly smiling is that it's a question we get asked quite a lot. They're part of nature, they're part of life you know and what right have we got to almost play God and try to get You're listening to CrowdScience from the BBC World of Earth's two remaining ice sheets in Greenland For the billions of us not living in this frozen world what we want to know is what are the consequences? Can we calculate how much sea gases heat the Earth's atmosphere and that sat on and that melt water makes all of our there's a lot more that enters the equation, which Let's head back to that moulin we heard at the start, because the water barrelling down it can make its way to the bottom of the ice helping massive chunks of ice sheet slide It's really important because this water is the year. When you consider the fact that of water can lift the entire ice sheet and like an uplift of like a metre when a big Jason is it difficult to work out how fast a lump So I've in my almost three decade career measurements and data about the place and there is, high or low emission scenario, Greenland and that's just up to present. That sea level So that means if we all stopped putting any carbon dioxide into the atmosphere from today onwards there's still going to be like a foot, 27 centimetres, of sea level That's right and that was a conservative lower bound. When you compare CO2 and sea level actually at this level of CO2 in the atmosphere sea level should equilibrate And there's no expected process that'll That is Pilu our helicopter pilot come to take us off this beautiful, beautiful ice sheet. It's been such a privilege to see it and I hope I hope I have the chance to come back later in my life and I hope when Now we've heard a lot about Greenland, which is Well for this I asked a researcher who studies We heard from her earlier. She studies the world's two major ice sheets for the Danish Meteorological Institute and I caught up with her in Reykjavik, also at that Well Antarctica is a much, much bigger place than Greenland. So if you melted all of the ice on Antarctica you would get around about 60 metres of global sea level rise compared Greenland. I think it's fair to say that most anything like 60 metres of sea level rise and even of years, it won't happen immediately but we do a bit a little bit warmer than it is today at happened and that water has to come from somewhere for us is trying to work out how much ice is Are there are other differences between how About half the ice that's lost from Greenland is lost warm in the summer and in Antarctica there most and there's also so Antarctica is surrounded by there is coming from melting underneath those ice shelves. So those are very different processes and so in Antarctica the ocean is much more important. In Greenland the atmosphere is really controlling what's going on. What about all of the rest of the glaciers, the Tibetan Plateau, you know iconic snowy mountains all around the world? Do we need We definitely need to factor them into the equation and in fact I've got really bad news for people like myself who loves visiting these areas and seeing these only have about half a metre of sea level rise big long term but they're disappearing very fast. There's still some uncertainties but I'm afraid it's most likely that these glaciers are going So our listener David, say he lives a long healthy life and makes it to 2100, do we know how high the sea levels will rise by then? Well we have a range of estimates. I think the biggest uncertainty is really burning of fossil faster you can reduce your use of fossil fuels and change, then the lower the sea is going to rise and about a metre at some high-end scenarios, it might end scenarios but there is going to be some sea it's going to take centuries for sea level rise to that's very misleading. Out to 2300, 2500 So probably a metre in our lifetime? Well by the end of this century one of the things we've been talking about is really about ice shelves around Antarctica. We atmosphere 95 per cent of it is going into the ocean. So the ocean is warming up and that's having an effect on these ice shelves and it's undermining Is the ocean getting warmer having an effect on sea level? That has a big effect on sea level. The ocean getting warmer actually until quite recently the expansion of the ocean as the water gets warmer it expands and that was actually our primary contributor to sea level rise centuries because it takes a long time for the So warmer water takes up more room? Warmer water takes up more room, yeah. This is a very simple experiment you can do in your own home. Make a cup of tea and measure the same amount of cold water and then heat it up and see how much taller it is. So Greenland is contributing every third teaspoon of water to sea level rise, that's what I've read? That's about right. There are some sort of useful rules of thumb. So one gigaton, which is a cube of water, one that's a billion litres of water. Greenland loses year on average and Antarctica loses around So every year Greenland loses around about 0.7 All right, well David it'll take all of the ice trapped in to melt. However the melt we're seeing now, which fuels, means sea levels will rise significantly The process of studying these ice sheets involves long days of physical labour - setting up rigs, fixing weather stations, shunting One reward for these scientists comes at the drink, stare up at the Northern Lights dancing in There went a shooting star. I just want to say the smear of Northern Lights in front of us has just been fantastic. Here we are in Greenland looking at these Northern Lights, this place is so reliable for that. We've got our drinks, no ice but I think you've had enough ice today right? Yeah, we were working ourselves quite hard on day three of our ice recorder measurement maintenance. We were hustling you know sweating, rebuilding some I've got to ask, so people talk about there being ice, what if this is just like a big long run of I wish there was a scientific prospect for the melt to pause but as humans add more than 40 it just adds more blankets on But it's definitely going, the ice sheet that we've been on, it's going? Yeah, Greenland has entered an hyperactive whole climate system really and more sensitive than we can appreciate but there a more sensitive response especially for ice. Ice is one of the more sensitive indicators if not the most sensitive. So my job's pretty So I mean the reason I'm here bothering you is when the ice sheets are going to melt, when's Not all, no. Even small fractions of this large mass will matter, they do matter. Say if 10 per cent of Greenland ice is We estimate that by end of century the sea level rise about three feet. It's not like the climate is going level rise will probably continue accelerating kind of impossible to predict what the world would when we'll be talking about metres of sea level rise. I mean we've got our drinks, is there anything positive that we can cheer to, can we clink to anything? I think the efforts to reduce carbon emissions and to start getting into carbon removal from the atmosphere while expensive have the great benefit of beginning to put the brakes And in effect it'll save lives and I think we has been hammered by human activity. We owe it to To putting the brakes on. Cheers. It feels odd to have seen this ice sheet knowing different places and is already affecting another listener question. I'm Johan calling from Slagelse in Denmark. Melting poles and high seas seem to be unavoidable, so maybe we So my question is 'where do we go to live when the That's a great question but unfortunately it's one our listeners will have to wait until next week to hear the answer to. Special thanks this week to Jason and his crew and question for CrowdScience get in touch with us produced by Sam Baker and presented by me Marnie