(audience cheers and applauds) - Hello, thank you. - Great to see you here. - Yes, I'm a big fan. What a treat to get to hear you. - Oh, thanks. Tomorrow's Halloween, we're do you have kiddos as well, - I don't get into Halloween, but I'm supportive from a great distance. (audience chuckles) - Is it because you play dress - No, I think it's 'cause I'm (audience laughs) As hard as it must be to but I'm not a joy. No, but I got a kid and and I'm more like the itinerary, you know, I stay back with the- - Oh, you, you need the Mapsco. - Yeah. - Navigation guide. You know, we did 22nd - Yeah, you grew up here Which one did you like? Because I grew up in like a - Like a suburban neighborhood? - Yes, and last year, it - Being in the city? - Yes, the city is difficult. - I went to the wrong street, man. - Well, you didn't do - Some kind of 70, I but it was the worst thing ever. Everyone in New York at that moment. - Oh, I see what happened, I see, okay. that's a rookie move. (audience laughs) My daughter literally - Yeah, no, the trick and then just stay in the building. - Oh. - Even if it's not your building? - Especially if it's not your building, because you don't wanna (audience chuckles) And especially if you of enjoyment of life, you - Okay. No, it was not enjoyable. I - Really? - Yeah, I was like, this (audience laughs) But speaking of growing up here, did you grow up in theater as well? You were young when you started, right? - Yeah, exactly, I did when I was like six years old, and then really without almost a break, I just did that up until I when I was like 14. - Did you know, because I have two kids, and one of them just got into acting only because her friend wanted her to take the class with her, And now she's into it, but like, she's 10, and I'm just like... And I was a kid, like with a dream, but not until I was &quot;Oh, maybe I wanna sing,&quot; - No, no, it's exactly I really didn't know what I was kind of just like there, and they would push me on stage, and I didn't know if this was I wasn't like good or I was just like doing it and this was like a (audience chuckles) and I got to like hang out with adults who weren't kids, and it was just like more of a - I am deeply in love with you. (audience laughs) - Your energy right you are like, brrr, that's me. - My general status is panic attack. - Me too. - Oh, that's great. - Mines not panic attack, - Oh, got it, so I'm the bad side of- - But we're running on 11. - Yeah, yeah, I wake up like this and then I can't fall asleep like this. (audience chuckles) All right. Well, you directed this, which is an amazing accomplishment. - Oh, thank you. - Yes. Was that daunting for you? - Everything's daunting. - Actually scared to come here. - Yeah, sorry. And this was just like but in terms of my like creative life, I am probably more of not like dictatorial, I just like to kind of and I just wanna like carry it out. And of course I like love but for this, like having written it and directing it and acting it, it gave me like a little over the project, and it's kind of like, you And so for me it was, you know, to be doing all of those things. - It was really personal for you, right? You even shot in Poland, and you had family there - Yeah, exactly. So my family, you know, but lived in Poland up until 1939, and we actually filmed this movie. The movie is a modern story about me and my cousin, who's going on a tour to see But we actually filmed inside the house my family it was fascinating. And the movie is kind it's about these two guys and their kind of unusual relationship. But like, we actually my family is from. I'm gonna get more into that, but I have to ask you, I mean, if you're directing this and do you think you'd ever direct a musical? - My first love is musical theater, I shouldn't have said that on TV. (audience laughs) Yeah, why, why, why don't but I come on a TV show and tell people? This is something I avoid and now we're on television, - I love it. - I love musical theater, none have gotten produced, but the next movie I'm so I get to finally like have a musical. - Wait, these are my favorite, are you saying, it's like about a musical, so it's like a musical within a show? - It's a musical within a movie. - [Kelly] Like, you're - It's exactly that. - [Kelly] Beans, I said - That's it, yeah, yeah, yeah. - Yes, I love when it's like that. - Oh, me too, me too, - Yeah, because you get - Exactly that. - So you see the And then, since I wrote the music for it, if the music is bad, you know, no one will think it's my fault, they'll think that's (audience laughs) (audience applauds) - I love you so much. Wait, so if you weren't an like, if you weren't doing what do you think you would be doing? - I dunno, where is it appropriate to I don't know. My parents are teachers, - I wouldn't be a teacher. - Me either, I'd be doing gymnastics. No, I don't know, I'd probably teach... I don't know, why You're a great... - Oh no, my mother was a teacher, and I sat in on her classroom enough to know that that was not for me, no. (audience chuckles) They're angels and I - Patience. No, me too. - I would be fired. Yes, I'd be fired. - Yeah, I would be like, how to discipline your child - Just stay after school - Very Texan, yes. - I really wanna meet (audience chuckles) I'm sure she would like to (audience laughs) - Your first date must have been epic. Okay, let's take a short break, Molly in our audience - Hi, Kelly and Jesse, I'm excited to see &quot;A Real The story feels familiar, because not long ago I did after my grandmother passed away. We went to Arlington National and it was a really And more with Kelly and - We are back with my favorite (audience cheers and applauds) - His new movie, which he wrote directed and stars in is called &quot;A Real Pain,&quot; it's in theaters everywhere Friday. So the movie's about two and kind of discover to have two characters - Yeah, oh, thanks so much. So yeah, the movie follows me and my cousin, played by Kieren Culkin, and after the loss of our grandmother, we decide to go and see where she's from. And so she's from Poland, so we go on this kind of tour but also kind of very sad of what she suffered during And it's really kind of like dissection of these two characters who are experiencing their but set against the backdrop So like the characters have but the backdrop of what they're - Yeah, because y'all actually went and you filmed at a - Yeah, exactly, yeah, we filmed it was this kind of remarkable experience, where this place that kind of understood what and what the story was that and worked with us to incredible sequence in this movie occur. - It's incredibly impactful. I heard though that Kieren Culkin, he tried to drop out several times, which must have freaked you out. - Yes, Kieren is like like all the reviews are like, &quot;Oh, you know, he's gonna win the Oscar, he's brilliant in this movie,&quot; but like two weeks before he tried to drop out six months before- - Why? Because he's unusual... Why? I don't know. (audience laughs) he doesn't wanna leave his He was on this show &quot;Succession- - Oh, he's a family guy and he just does not wanna leave his kids. I mean, he's truly a great dad. One of our producers is Emma Stone, and she literally had to She sent me a video when - Oh my God, she babysat - She babysat the kids on the plane, she took his kids off the plane, walked him into Poland to get him on set. And he's superb in the movie. And it was just lucky, because also, two weeks before it's not like nothing is happening, it's like six months of and like, you know, you're casting, everybody's two weeks before shooting is like six months into a job already, - Same with an album, there's before you even get to- - Yeah, when you're - Yeah. - Yeah, so you're like, oh - That's exactly right, yeah. And all the other cast was - Yeah. I'm glad that it happened, I get like being so busy so it's great to like but I'm glad y'all pushed him to do it, this is a very important film. - Yeah, and his kids were so it was really all for Yeah, absolutely. (chuckles) Why did he do that? Okay, so there's a great line in the film, one character says, after &quot;I feel shaken, but I guess that's better I was destroyed when I went, - Yeah, exactly. you should be a little destroyed - Yeah, exactly. Yeah, And like, you know, part of who are growing up like in New York and are kind of like in, you know, regular middle class society you know, war and stuff like that, trying to kind of find trying to like connect to something sadder so that they can ground you know, sometimes I think when you. - Perspective and all that. - Yeah, when your life is comfortable, I think you're kind of missing something. And it's wonderful if that's a great achievement. But also, what are you missing? Are you missing some connection to the greater human condition? And is it ignoring something that you should know more about? That's kinda what the - Which usually makes you - That's why I feel too. - Exactly. Well your character has a that come from a real place, are you? - Yeah. 'cause my character who like kind of, I have like OCD and you know, general anxiety, and I kind of like medicate and I'm fine. And what I talk about in the I know that my pain is I know that my pain is I can jog, I can meditate and I could go outside and be okay. And so what I say in &quot;I don't feel the need to I don't feel the need to like walk around expressing my sorrow and when actually my pain is the kind that can be easily taken care of.&quot; And I'm kind of referring to, in terms of the other who are like constantly and then the group kind of and like sometimes it's kind but my character's conflicted. And the movie is not and the other character is - Thought provoking. Yeah. I love you. (audience chuckles) - Oh my God, you're like - It's a great match. - We have a clip, here is Jesse (delicate piano music) - We stay moving, we stay The conductor's gonna come we tell him we're going to the bathroom. - Bathroom, okay. - He gets to the back of the train, and he's gonna start looking for stragglers. Sorry, we're the stragglers? By the time he gets to the front, the train's gonna be in the - This is so (beep) stupid. - Man, what's stupid is the ensuring that the rich propagate their elitist loins, while the poor say cutoff from society. - That's great, we can argue Marxism when they're hauling us off to Siberia. (audience cheers and applauds) &quot;A Real Pain&quot; is in y'all should go see it.