This video has been I've been doing YouTube now but in the last few years, When I first started, and I pretty much had nothing. I remember that it was a struggle Now though, I have this office and I also have this entire lab When I think about it, I have things like Equipment like gas cylinders. I have a fume hood or which are slightly better which was just a fan I also have a drawer, and another drawer When I think about all of this, and I'm really and everything but I can't help but miss Like I said before, I used to do and it was far from ideal I filmed all my and there was barely I almost didn't even have space and everything was so crammed. I did my best to organize it but it was still undeniably However, I found that the added danger The chemistry itself was challenging but I think I like the bonus It made everything and I had to be way more This made many of my projects but I think it also made them Now though, it's much more official. I pay rent for my own space and I have I mean, it's way and I'm able to do some higher end stuff However, I've been feeling that misses that What I've been wanting and do some chemistry I've been really wanting to relive and to see if I actually miss it. I didn't just wanna do any and I specifically Bromine's an element and it's a very angry blood-red liquid. It's also one of my favorite elements, but that isn't the only reason It's because it was one that I felt was really It has always stuck out in my mind as to challenge myself and to push I remember preparing for ages to make sure and anything that could go wrong. I also remember some of my chemist friends But, anyway, now to get started, was ask my dad for permission I have a question to ask you. Can we use the garage sometime this week You need just a verbal contractor There's nothing in the garage -To make bromine? -Okay. -That's it. With that out of the way, I started putting together a little To know exactly what I needed, I just rewatched my old bromine video, Based on what I saw, and it was mostly just basic Some of it, like the funnels, were actually the exact same ones Now for the chemicals, were muriatic acid, and chlorine pool tablets. I originally bought all of these and I figured When I went to go buy them though, they They'd apparently stopped selling which I think might be good making bromine in their garage. However, this did make me a bit sad, and I started worrying or at least possible But luckily, after searching I actually found the sodium bromide It was super old and only half full, Now with all the I took the 40-minute drive The moment I walked in though, This sucks. -Okay. Oh, God. I don't know what to say. I don't feel good about this. It was even more cluttered But either way, the first thing This ended up being and there wasn't The hardest part was finding and I ended up just shoving things Okay. With the table open, but I wanted to see if I could I spent a few minutes and I was very surprised For most of my time in the garage though, I actually used a different one However, in 2017, that one exploded and I replaced it with this one. It was just a cheap tabletop from IKEA, I thought that it had a zebra pattern. I also called it a zebra pattern, My friend couldn't It's also a fingerprint, not a Zebra. I thought it was a Zebra thing. It definitely looks a lot more like I think it was even called Either way. Good to go. Now with a completely clear I was ready to start In my later garage videos, I filmed from the side and I attached a backdrop In the beginning though, I wasn't nearly as advanced, and I filmed everything I'm not exactly sure because there was definitely and I think it was just because But either way, I decided that I had to do it and I started putting things together. Awesome. What was sad though I was already In my normal videos, I obsess about having everything and that just wasn't happening here. The background's gonna be this garage. I'm gonna be doing some mop buckets. I don't know why I'm trying Oh, well. The point of this is to just, and I should just, I should enjoy it. Here we go. Amazing. With both my stands in place, What I had to do next involves so it was time to put on Up until now, I think most but after getting geared up, I started getting hit It feels very... to be in a lab coat It doesn't feel illegal It just feels dangerous. I don't even have so if I spill any of this asset on me, I can run to the tap down there, What I had to do now was put together and I had to seal every joint This would prevent any bromine and I couldn't use regular grease because the bromine After I had covered most of it, I wiped off the lower part and I dropped it into the flask. I then added a 3-way adapter along with a thermometer and a condenser. To the other end of the condenser, and this was where I'd be collecting Now with all this glassware in place, So far, it's not as bad Just safety-wise, it's awful still. I guess we'll see. Now the next thing that I had to do To do that though, I needed a scale, But thankfully, that wasn't a problem because earlier when I was just looking We have a high quality scale right here. It's broken. -It's just permanent. It works. I don't know if I'll trust it. I mean, it's all we have. But, anyway, I had to weigh out about 75 grams which were made of It turned out that each pellet and I ended up only needing 5 of them. This was very convenient but in this large puck form, it would I was gonna have When it looked good enough, that I last used when I was like 6, I then went back to the large flask, swapped out one of the stoppers On top of this, I then dumped After that, I added 30 milliliters along with another 30 milliliters This was all added to the addition funnel, and I sealed it with another glass stopper The next thing to do and unlike the original video, This container was very just in case the flask broke It still wasn't the most ideal setup, if some sort of catastrophe happened, Now, under the other flask, This would help keep the bromine cool, and it would reduce There would still be some vapor that managed to escape and I had to put together To do this, I basically just connected and hovered that in a beaker. I then got another beaker, and I had to add something I can live without it. -Whatever. It was an operation. This thiosulfate and I just had to dissolve It took a while but they did eventually all disappear. After that, I poured it and I brought it up With this setup, there shouldn't be any and I'll talk more about Now is another quick point of safety I also mixed up a bunch It was very important to do this just in case I had any accidental spills If any bromine ended up I had to be able to destroy it Now, at this point, but then I realized I completely forgot To make this happen, I first had to fill I then dropped in a small which is usually After that, connected the tubing to the condenser, I was expecting water to immediately start but nothing happened, I wasn't too surprised by this though, that I'd used in the original video, I thought that this might happen, and I quickly swapped it out. This time when I plugged it in, it worked, I was a bit worried I feel like there's way too much Hopefully, one of the tubes, After all this, and everything was more This is the moment to make the bromine. I feel a bit anxious. I'll admit it. When I felt that I was ready, of that sodium bromide pool solution. The moment that it touched the TCCA, and I think this was I'm not exactly sure what the reaction is, but I think somehow was swapping with the bromine If this were happening, it could be turning it into sodium I then turned on the stirring, When I felt that it all looked okay, I opened the funnel with the acid in it This caused it and this was because Unlike the other reaction, and the acid was reacting with the TCCA This chlorine gas was then reacting to make sodium chloride and bromine. After all the acid was added, I let it stir for a few minutes, I also filled the bucket with a bunch Now I basically just had to wait. I should mention though with an open hot plate It's okay, and it does work, but it's much better to use I just did it this way because, again, it was how I did it before As it warmed up, But it was slowly I also started seeing it and I eventually started collecting This was all bromine, it was usually pretty steady state. It was mostly just a matter of waiting, This would take and I decide to use some of the time that I'd somehow never asked. Good Lord. It's excellent. -I applaud the effort. It's a science, everyone. What did you think was gonna be I haven't. You thought it was just It's just a hobby? You were a chemistry student. I figured if you were a musician or a football player you'd be exercising. I figured it was just part I knew that possibly being interrogated might beyond the because and the neighbors are looking in, Okay, that's excellent. What did you think when I first It was interesting. That's it. Were you ever thinking Maybe. Did you ever have fears No I had fears that we might get, -Slowly. But, yeah, so you were never afraid -No. Because I thought you had it -No, it was all under control. But what happens if I just had Then we'd all die. But anyway, now back to the bromine. As it kept distilling it, and it gradually looked less I then looked over at the other flask, There was also a bunch that had come over as well, Also, up until now, and when I looked at the trap, It was now completely white because of sulfur, as the bromine reacted Eventually, after a total it was looking pretty good, and even the condenser At this point, there was probably but it just wasn't worth waiting for it. I decided to end it here, I then left it there for a couple When I came back to it, which meant that there was definitely But either way, now that it was safe to take apart, and I started by pulling I then shot in some water that might have been in the adapter With this all clean, and then I moved on to the other side. I started by removing the trap, Now taking a closer look at what I had, It was a little bit hard to see, was floating as a layer above the bromine. This was happening because bromine and bromine is also over 3 times denser. Up until now, the bromine and had been either partially sealed or completely sealed by a stopper. While making, it was still definitely The real dangerous and scary part was what I was gonna have to pour it, which meant that I was gonna Also, handling it in general meant that which would be a catastrophic disaster. That'd actually be a huge disaster. As a basic safety precaution, over a plastic container could at least be somewhat contained. Just in case, I also mixed up even which I figured I could throw on the When I felt that I was ready, because I no longer had the luxury I also opened the garage, and I turned on the fan which I was honestly With the mask on and the fan going, The only thing that I was still missing That wasn't a huge problem though, and I just have to be even more When I transferred everything I washed things down The lower, almost black bromine layer was then drained directly Now what I had to do next Even though there wasn't there was still a small amount that I had to get rid of. To do this, I had to add which wouldn't mix with the bromine, The danger here is that it could cause the sulfuric acid to heat I added it very carefully. It turned out to be okay. However, the boiling risk because like with the water, It was just floating on top of it, In case it wasn't already obvious, shaking a mixture of sulfuric acid isn't exactly the safest thing to do. Also, it was possible that there was still which could cause things to heat up, and spill bromine everywhere. That exact accident but it was thankfully To prevent this, I had to make sure by opening the valve. Another added danger was something that didn't really have It's something that you can't really tell I often have to awkwardly reach In my entire time filming chemistry, because of this, but it definitely Thankfully though, this wasn't the day Now as we saw before, bromine is very It's not so much that it would crack but it's bad because it really likes When it escapes, and it turns it all rusty and crusty. The only way to really tame it is to completely seal it To do this, I had to make one I heated it until it got nice and gooey, After waiting about 10 minutes I started draining the bromine into it. With it now safely in the ampule, and as I pulled away the top part, When I looked at it closer, but I had to wait for it to cool down before actually testing it. One of the biggest mistakes is making the ampule You have to wait till Otherwise, flip it over boils. When I came back about 10 minutes later, I did the old flip it upside down It was thankfully totally find out. I then made a special and some random foam that I found. Then as an extra layer of protection, Now at this point, the bromine was safe I still had a bunch of dirty glassware In general, I often don't show but it's a major part of chemistry, When I was working out of the garage, and it brought back some bad memories. I just really wasn't set up and cleaning my glassware Thankfully though, this stuff For the most part, with baking soda and then blast it This destroyed all the bromine, However, the problem and even though it I still couldn't just pour it I'll instead be taking it all with me and eventually giving it But anyway, with that all dealt with, and I put it back to how it was. I then thanked my parents, and I very cautiously Thankfully, I was able and I guess that meant that I survived When I first came up I assumed that I'd know exactly the moment it was done. However, it took at least a few weeks I honestly still don't know exactly but one thing that I do know is better in almost every way, I've also realized that the excitement had very little to do with danger, might have actually When I think about it, I actually still In fact, I think I'm a lot more excited I think I was just suffering where I was only selectively After experiencing how things were, I think it's pretty clear to me I'm now even more thankful for all and I'm really excited about The first big project that I'm But now with all that being said, to all my patrons for supporting me Displate's a company that sells posters, is that all their posters This makes them a lot more durable, I'm lazy, and I just lean them on stuff but they do have a simple that lets you easily put them on any wall. A couple of years ago, including the one that I just mounted. Some of these can actually be seen and I've always been really They also recently sent me and I'm really happy with them. These are just a few examples though, and they have about 800,000 other designs They also offer really fast delivery, and they plan to train Africa But, anyway, if you're someone I definitely recommend If you decide to pick some up, you should also be sure to use It'll give you up to 35% off It also applies automatically at checkout, and you don't need to put But with all that being said, and that's it. As usual, a big thanks goes out Everyone who supports me at least 24 hours You'll also get access to all If you support me with $5 or more, you'll get your name