(logo chimes) - [Falcon] In the world of gaming, five years can seem like a long time and I am about to make it As much as the last five years have brought some kind of it's also brought us plenty of gold. Hi folks, it's Falcon, the top 50 PC games of Starting out with number It took three years of work, but they were able to where I would recommend &quot;Cyberpunk&quot; to just about anybody. From the massive 2.0 update that reworked a lot of made the shooting more satisfying, made the skill tree more interesting, it's just an all around better game. It wasn't unplayable at but it clearly needed a lot of work. And now that it has been fixed, it went from a game in pretty much all games media to being a critical darling. It's a great game now, and yeah, it sucks that it Some people probably the developers for putting And to be frank, it is especially given that CD Projekt and is under no force to put a game out. They got that &quot;Witcher 3&quot; money, folks. But aside from &quot;No Man's Sky,&quot; if there is any game out there that totally justifies it's &quot;Cyberpunk 2077.&quot; I will take an extremely and becomes incredibly good over a game that is bad &quot;Night City&quot; is one of the best, most fleshed out open worlds out there, and the story is great. If you're into shooters or RPGs or CD Projekt RED's games you'll probably like &quot;Cyberpunk.&quot; And that's a pretty wide net to cast for probably like a game. It's in fact probably to put on this list, and that's exactly why Moving on to number 49, we're This is an enhanced port of It came out on PC in 2022, a few years after the regular version, but the patient gamer wins again 'cause this is by far the Along with a new party member and a lot of small tweaks, the big thing &quot;Royal&quot; adds that extends the length of It's a better ending Even if the idea of spending even more time in sounds like a commitment. Believe me, it's worth getting. Just look up how to You don't wanna spend a hundred only to find out that you even if you don't care about all that, &quot;Persona 5 Royal&quot; is a super-slick an amazing sound rig, a deep and let me just tell you, it is one of the most fun battle systems that exists in the turn-based realm. Just expect it to take some time. An average playtime to start to finish can run well over a hundred hours. And number 48, it's &quot;Ghost Took a while for this one to hit PC, but man, is it worth it, 'cause it is a fantastic Imagine an &quot;Assassin's Creed&quot; game but with hard hitting, intense combat and you got a basic idea of Another thing to expect is a Rather than having gigantic quest markers all over the place, a towards your next objective. The game's full of immersive, and they innovate on the It is a beautiful game on PC and it's more mechanically complex than most open world games. And the story's dramatic and exciting. It's all around just a really solid and enjoyable, historically At number 47 is &quot;Deep Rock Galactic.&quot; This co-op dig 'em up is one and joyful multiplayer and is thankfully completely free of the usual microtransaction heavy BS PC players have grown accustomed to. You buy the game, you and so, start mining. The idea of a first-person might not sound that interesting to you, but it is a lot of fun. It's hard to even describe The missions are randomly generated, but they're quick and well paced. The desperate scramble for the exit after you mine just a little too greedily, that's always a joy, every time. And the game's fantastic community makes it extremely welcoming to newcomers. If you're into co-op games, it doesn't get a lot better than this. At number 46 is &quot;Doom Eternal.&quot; The newest &quot;Doom&quot; is one over the past few years. Some love it, others do not to the &quot;Doom&quot; formula, but I gotta sit with the pro camp here. I think &quot;Doom Eternal&quot; is an awesome game. It's a genuinely hard game, the amount of ammo you get but the way combat comes is something totally unique. It almost doesn't even more like an action game but in first person, that sounds impossible to but if you have, you know the combat's absolutely nuts. It's fast and frantic in a way that's tougher than you'd think for a big budget Bethesda game. &quot;Doom Eternal&quot; was risky, and it's not a hit with everyone, but if it clicks, it really clicks. And number 45 is &quot;Ori and A beautiful side scrolling platform that takes the best aspects the amazingly detailed and adds in a satisfying to make the game better than the first in pretty much every way. It's a game that's bigger and more fun to explore and with fewer out of place difficulty spikes. The story might not hit but it's still a good continuation of what they had going before. As far as Metroidvanias (soft upbeat music) And number 44 is &quot;Resident Evil Village.&quot; You can't say Capcom isn't The second &quot;Resident Evil&quot; you'd think they'd stick and go from there but Rather than &quot;Grindhouse&quot; horror, it goes deep into folk horror, which makes it an entirely And rather than draw inspiration it's heavily inspired which I mean is a classic game, but not the quote unquote, &quot;classic era.&quot; It was the first of the 3D games, well, the truly 3D games. The larger world we explore The wider variety of the shopkeeper who sells Does it sound familiar? It should. It's an action-packed and to get creepy at times or Looking back, it's one of the but the game design is rock solid. It looks great, it's very well paced and it's constantly mixing And number 43 is &quot;Inscription.&quot; It's an indie darling. It seems like one thing, but it becomes completely clear that it is something entirely different and it doesn't even stop there. It's a game with layers that And even saying what would be a huge spoiler. &quot;Inscription&quot; is one of to go in completely blind. All that really matters at least at first, which is a pretty fun It eventually becomes clear that you can get up from and that there are puzzles to solve and it gets complicated from there. But if you don't care about that, you can keep playing the card game. The important thing for is that the actual game And &quot;Inscription&quot; nails It's endlessly surprising. It's also just a really At number 42 is the &quot;Dead Space&quot; remake. The original &quot;Dead Space&quot; is but getting this work a little rough, so the best way to play, I It made a few controversial changes like making the originally and changing some of the characterization of some of the supporting characters and some people don't like that as much. But these are ultimately because the stuff that the intense action, it's or actually even improved a little. And in all seriousness, it's more in line with &quot;Dead Space 2,&quot; these games feel less different with the changes that have been made. It's a shame this one didn't get as many updates as maybe it should have. The performance isn't quite but it's a small price to one of the best horror And number 41 is &quot;Mass As much as everyone was mad at the ending of &quot;Mass Effect 3,&quot; with a carefully realized and people love it. Being able to play them with and improvements, it's a godsend. The only downside is the lack of the &quot;Mass Effect 3&quot; multiplayer, which may have been the best honestly, I still think the and the gameplay is probably Still, these games are a little dated, the writing's a little lame at times. Some of the big twists aren't but as a package, they are great. You can play through so all your choices carry over, or you can just play Fantastic compilation. And number 40 is &quot;Elden Ring.&quot; This one's landed, and it's probably as big of an advance in open world games as because it does so many things differently and in a way that's and just feels like you to continue exploring. And on top of that, it's Honestly, I don't know what else to say. You gotta play &quot;Elden And number 39 is &quot;Sifu.&quot; This unique, hard hitting action game combines Rougelikes with beat em ups in a way I've never seen before. And they do it just about perfectly. It's a short game that can be completed in less than an hour, but actually doing that is &quot;Sifu&quot; is a game about repetition. The enemy layouts stay the but getting through those parts is so hard that it's gonna take a lot of tries before you finally get it right and eventually overcome the final boss. It sounds like a drag, but the game is so much fun to play, it doesn't really matter. And the combat is You're kinda like a combination and Donnie 'n all wrapped into one. And once you get the hang of And number 38 is &quot;Hi-Fi Rush.&quot; This joyfully goofy action and the tutorial is maybe but it's got an infectious energy that's just unlike anything else. The game combines combat in one of the most obvious of all time. Other games have done it, but nobody else has done it as well. Once the momentum really gets going, entering a flow state in It's a game that has flaws, but the parts that matter are so good that they don't really matter. And number 37 is &quot;Armored Core 6.&quot; This high speed, mech combat to a different era, and that's because it is, instead of being set in a continuous world or an open world or anything like that, it's split into bite-sized Story is practically non-existent, The focus is on mech building and combat and that's what makes You're given tons of and make the ultimate mech or the ultimate piece of crap, sink or swim with the mech design. Same with the combat. It's so fast, it's almost hard It's been so long since we've and while &quot;Armored Core&quot; is hard as nails, it's easily the best mech And number 36 is &quot;Resident Evil 4&quot; remake. It seemed unnecessary until we got it. The original &quot;Resident but depending on who you You're listening to a bird but no matter which side you fall on, this game is still great. And even if you play the there's a good reason to play the remake 'cause it's actually a It's remade from the ground up. The level designs are sometimes bosses are more complex, they're sometimes in It's a remix of the original and different in exciting ways. (soft upbeat music) And number 35 is &quot;Lies of P.&quot; I've had a whole lot of people talk about how we say &quot;Soulslikes&quot; too much, but do you realize how many There's a lot of 'em, but they are rarely as Heavily inspired by the likes &quot;Lies of P&quot; is a Victorian horror, and it leans into an emphasis on perian. But what makes this special is that it's a more Doesn't mean it's easy, but the early areas aren't quite as brutal and it's not as mechanically complex. It demands a little less for the player, but in this case it works The boss designs are really fantastic. The world is really fun to It's a good starter &quot;Soulslike,&quot; but also one of the best in the genre. How rare is those two things, one thing? (dramatic music) And number 34 is &quot;Pizza Tower.&quot; So this is a manic nineties that looks amateurish, but and it's definitely It is a super weird and wonderful platform that but it can be played by just about anyone. If you're a madman speed runner, this is a game that you can But if you aren't that, maybe you like games for their mechanics and definitely appreciate you'll endlessly talk about it, but you won't get involved that is speed running, There's plenty to like for this game for either group though, the goofy humor, the creative level design, and absolutely fantastic music make it a breeze to play, easily one of the best platformers And number 33 is &quot;Dave the Diver.&quot; A charming indie-not-indie. It looks probably like nothing but it's one of the most unique and fun games in a long time. During the day, you you look for loot, and at night you manage What starts out is a mostly Just keeps going and and more creative as its It's one of those games you and then they throw but rather than get tired, And number 32 is &quot;Alan Wake 2,&quot; a weirdo horror collage that &quot;Alan Wake 2&quot; is one of those games you're not necessarily playing, you're kind of experiencing, you got two very different characters from very different backgrounds, and the game gives you a on top of really, really And what makes it work is You probably heard of the &quot;Rock Opera,&quot; but that's the tip of the iceberg. This game goes places, and if you're willing to take that ride, it is something to remember. At Number 31 is &quot;Against the Storm.&quot; One common issue with city The part where you've solved and you're kind of coasting &quot;Against the Storm&quot; fixes the issue by making the start the entire game. This Roguelike, with persistent where you're always on a You only have so much to a survivable state before you move on. And that turns every map into a puzzle that has to be solved. It's challenging, but And yeah, it does take a little You'll probably fail more than a few times before you start to get it, of failure where you want to keep trying. You'll feel great when you get it. (upbeat music) And number 30 is &quot;Like a Worth mentioning, &quot;Yakuza: Like a Dragon,&quot; &quot;Like a Dragon: The Man &quot;Dragon Inchin&quot; and &quot;Lost Judgment,&quot; these are all great games too, but the most recent &quot;Yakuza&quot; franchise is This one, a continuation of is a new take on the series and a generally weirder and wackier vibe. The mundane life details are more mundane, party characters are like a and a taxi driver all have while the actual story is even crazier. If that's not your cup of tea, there's plenty of other games I gave you the names of plenty of them. These things come out like clockwork and there's at least four other games to pick from in the series that came out in the last five years and I would recommend every one of them. (machine gun rattling) And number 29 is &quot;Shadow the last game of developer, Mimimi, is also arguably their best, made with all the experience they got making games like &quot;Shadow Putting that into a stealth tactical game gives players more freedom than ever. This game, like everything is all about carefully and they all have unique abilities in order to carefully full of patrolling guards and hazards. These games turn stealth and requires so much quick saving that the game optionally tells you how long it's been since your last one. It's a very PC-centric sort of game, but if you've got the patience and smarts for it, it's fantastic. All their games are great, but this one really lets you and tackle them in any order. It is freeform and it is super fun. (dramatic music) And number 28 is &quot;Street Fighter 6.&quot; Near fighting game perfection, &quot;Street Fighter 6&quot; has with a fantastic fighting and tons of content available The new modern fighting and actually viable to use competitively. And the popularity of the a decent cross section This is easily the sharpest street fighter there's been in a long time. It feels great to play no the character designs The new world tour mode plenty to entertain themselves with, the microtransactions crap but the rest of the game is so good, it doesn't really make At number 27 is &quot;Hades.&quot; This top-down Roguelike has one thing that most Roguelikes are missing, a story. And that means there's to get invested in and it's It helps that the gameplay with tight but accessible combat. And it's got some super fun weapons and a lot of different possible builds. It uses the Roguelike with a hub of characters who evolve and grow while you do the Roguelike part. And it makes for a game where dying doesn't feel like a failure. It actually feels like a At number 26 is &quot;Black Myth: Wukong.&quot; This hardcore action game but it's gotten a lot in common with them. It's sort of its own thing. It's built on a lot of the but they change a lot of and it makes for a pretty Thankfully a really good one with a frankly insane amount of bosses which would get tiring if the The stuff between all the bosses can feel a little undercooked at first, but the game gets bigger and more open as it goes, along with a ton of So in my opinion, one of the best action And number 25 is &quot;Crusader Kings 3.&quot; The most accessible grand &quot;Crusader Kings 3&quot; is but a few notable changes than Paradox's stable of other titles. With no real end goal, the fun of these games, what kingdoms you can conquer, what tragedies befall your monarch, what eventually happens to your domain, it's all up in the air while your basic goal is and gain more wealth and power, there is nothing stopping you for basically doing whatever you want, just see what happens though. That's the real appeal of being a cog in the wheels of history. And sometimes it's fun Other times, yeah, you just And number 24 is &quot;Spider-Man&quot; remastered, formerly PlayStation exclusive, it came to PC in 2022 and it's just as good there The superhero open world that the original doesn't do, but it does so with more polish. The game looks amazing and the combat is highly inspired by the &quot;Batman: Arkham&quot; games. It does manage to have and some of the most impressive set pieces of any action game I've ever played. There's some amazing missions as some of the most exhilarating and carefully choreographed It's also a game with It gets in and gets out, doesn't feel slow, feels just the platonic ideal of (upbeat music) At number 23 is &quot;Teardown,&quot; a voxel-based game all about You play as a different kind of thief, the thief that smashes and get away with as much loot as possible before the cops arrive. Essentially it's a puzzle game where you got these big levels, you gotta figure out how to Usually that involves setting off an alarm and booking it out of there. But to do that fast, you have to make your return trip faster. Simple concept, but extremely At number 22 is &quot;The Talos Principle 2.&quot; The original was a and in some ways the They removed the more that involve minds and recording copies, and generally made the with a less severe learning curve. The new environments are but also massive and a little empty. The walking simulator aspect of the game is a plus here, the more involved story is but no less interesting. It's a game that's a little less focused but somehow comes together and excellent. And number 21, it's, &quot;It and they don't get much more creative and engaging in this Even if the kind of is a bit of a miss, the gameplay isn't. The game is constantly mixing things up with different gameplay and all this switching but the game is really well designed. Everything's introduced to you quickly. It's easy to understand, it's fun to use. The many mini games you are also a fun breather as well, as are all the little interactions and secrets to find. It's a game that's really And number 20, &quot;Warhammer sometimes all you wanna and this game does that perfectly. Taking the clever mechanical innovations of the first &quot;Space Marine,&quot; and improving on them, &quot;Space in a modern-day shelf The campaign's focus, not all that long. The additional co-op but add a fun challenge for people who want to continue past the story. And the multi-player offerings The most important part is that the game just feels great to play. There's a real oomph to all your actions. The environments look as do the massive hoards of monsters you often encounter. It's uncomplicated, but And number 19 is &quot;Balatrto.&quot; This game combines all with the obsessive, of a Roguelike, to devastating It's not a complicated looking game, but it's brilliantly designed. There's no story, no combat, because it doesn't need any All that matters are the multipliers. And number 18 is &quot;Death Stranding.&quot; This one just sneaks by under the wire with a November, 2019 release date. And while it's a game that's not going to be it's one of the most in a very long time. You're a post-apocalyptic, it's not actually FedEx, I like using the exaggerated but you're tasked with which sounds weird as a game premise, but it's so much crazier than that. If you can get past the baffling story, what you're left with from one place to another with a bunch of stuff on your back. Somehow they found a way And I mean that's impressive enough, but it's not just compelling, it is an extremely fun game. And number 17 is &quot;Satisfactory,&quot; which just came out of This game takes everything and does it all in glorious 3D you normally get these types of things, you're right down in the action. Getting a proper factory started takes a lot of blood, sweat and tears, and a whole hell of a But once you've set everything up, there are few things more satisfying than just taking a minute to stop and appreciate your massive It's confusing, complex But for the optimization At number 16 is &quot;Bomb Rush Cyberfunk,&quot; this jet set radio-inspired adventure, it's just a ton of fun. It takes the basic idea of that series where you skate around highly stylized locations and spray paint everything you see, and adds a little &quot;Tony You throw in some alternative you got an extreme sports dream game for a very specific type of gamer. It's not just a copycat, it's and true to form, the (upbeat music) And number 15 is &quot;Power Wash Simulator.&quot; It's the ultimate chill out game. Sometimes you don't wanna think too hard or challenge yourself or Sometimes you just wanna splash some water on a really dirty patio. It's slow, it's methodical, and depending on who you but I would argue boring When you're looking for this, this is the best game ever. I don't wanna sell it short, but it's a clever idea It's just not the sort of game all the time but the perfect or all the time depending on who you are. At number 14 is &quot;Tactical Breach Wizards.&quot; It's one of those games where and it pretty much tells you everything. It's a breach and clear tactical That's a great premise too. But the game is even It's an ingenious tactical game that's essentially a The story is well written, and the tactical gameplay is exceptional, getting increasingly complex. I can't even begin to tell of this genre this game is. And number 13 is &quot;Baldur's Gate 3.&quot; After cutting their teeth with the &quot;Divinity: Original Sin&quot; games, Larian took everything they learned and made &quot;Baldur's Gate 3,&quot; a game that's bold, a throwback, and extremely modern at the same time. It's a hardcore CRPG But what makes it unique is the commitment to player freedom. There's so many things they that you would not be able to It can be an exhausting especially the first time through because it does feel like every choice just leads to catastrophe. But no other RPG gives you the and really what makes it so special. (dramatic music) And number 12 is &quot;Forza Horizon 5.&quot; The latest entry in the long is custom built for fun. The game throws new cars, new race types, new everything at you at all times. It's stuffed full of content. There's so much to do to keep busy and it just looks fantastic doing it. The Mexico setting is kind some people don't like it as much, but I appreciate the variety and their attempts to mix things up with, stuff like expedition missions. While so many race games feel stingy, the &quot;Forza Horizon&quot; series, it's much better about this sort of thing. They do eventually get grindy, but that's not until way past to do has been done. And number 11 is &quot;Pentiment.&quot; A narrative adventure set in doesn't sound like the most but &quot;Pentiment&quot; does something special. Written and directed by Josh Sawyer, the director of games Pentiment is a game that's in a way few games are. It's a game where you'll but that doesn't mean it's There's a murder mystery to solve. It's not just a game with great writing. The art is exceptional as well. It's dense, often complex and requires patience to But for the people this appeals to, it's a one-of-a-kind game. And number 10 is &quot;Vampire Survivors.&quot; Sometimes you just want to kill something, and not just one thing, but a whole lot of things thousands of things, nonstop, That's &quot;Vampire Survivors.&quot; You don't even need to learn to aim. What's brilliant about the game is that all you really have to do is move and it does everything else. It's like a cookie clicker, but instead of cooking cookies, you're blowing away monsters. And that's a brilliant as a casual chill-out game, there's really nothing else like it. And the way it uses gambling to make the game more addictive any micro transactions it's really impressive. They had the power to make a miserable, money-siphoning Skinner Box, and instead they just And number nine is &quot;Hitman 3,&quot; ending the modern &quot;Hitman&quot; the game doesn't do than the other two games in the series. It just does it all really well. You got huge levels, tons of and lots of opportunities More &quot;Hitman,&quot; and that's And number eight is &quot;Age of another game just barely with the November, 2019 release date, this updated remaster does everything it needed to do to bring this game back as one of the best RTS games of all time. By that I mean it didn't have to do much. They made the games compatible improved the multiplayer and altered some of the the amount of content There's so many expansions and story campaigns now but the quality of the for all the new stuff. They already had a great And number seven is &quot;Risk of Rain 2.&quot; Ignoring the most recent DLC controversy. &quot;Risk of Rain 2&quot; is one of the best co-op It's a Roguelike, third-person shooter with enemies that get tougher Starts off messy but quickly It's a hard-as-hell game that especially with friends. And number six is &quot;God of War.&quot; The beloved soft reboot came to PC in 2022. Could have been a disaster. It's completely different but they really hit this It's a perfect blending of Combat's, visceral. The puzzles aren't super and so is the Leviathan Axe, which could be thrown at enemies. There's very few things more satisfying than yanking that thing back. The animation just works perfect. And number five is &quot;Snowrunner.&quot; Honestly, who would've thought through snow would be this much fun? Don't know what black magic they conjured when making this thing, but it works. It's essentially a transport game. You're driving to deliver goods from one place to another, only to do it, you have to drive through The only way to get through this is with careful driving It's one of those games that a little annoying but gets It is somehow stressful and (upbeat music) And number four is &quot;Disco Elysium.&quot; The original game came out just a few days before the time we are making this, which is October 15th, 2019. And that's really cutting it close with our five year deadline, I could just do the final cut version, but I'm gonna be honest here, The voice acting hurts and there's a lot of so having to hear it all as That's a minor complaint though. &quot;Disco Elysium&quot; is a modern classic, it's a dense and complex manifesto wrapped up in a murder-mystery plot. Trying to describe this game is futile. All that matters is you can kill yourself at the start of the game trying (upbeat music) At number three is &quot;Factorio,&quot; where its full release So combining tower defense &quot;Factorio&quot; is a game where and get straight to the meat. It's a hardcore factory and through where you can make as many conveyor belts Not quite the visual spectacle but it does make up for it And number two is &quot;Red Dead Redemption.&quot; Another November, 2019 game. It's been out for a while at this point, but the more I think about &quot;RDR 2,&quot; the more I'm convinced There's just nothing else quite like it as far as open world games go. It's so detailed and carefully Gameplay isn't like anything else either, Arthur is slow, everything Simulation elements make it so that just getting from Takes a while to figure out how to talk to people without It can be a difficult and but that's all to make it more immersive and makes you feel more The game seems more interesting than just a regular old fun game. And I respect it for that. There's no next gen patch on console, so the best way to play With super-high resolution it's still one of the best even now, just about five (upbeat music) And finally at number Now VR has had plenty of great games, but I think the masterpiece Not many people can actually play it, there are mods, so you can but trying to play it and you're not getting The real way to play and not many people have those yet, but a ton of effort went into making this a really immersive experience, blows everything else out of the water. On top of that, it is a It is not a tech demo, the game is bursting with new ideas and innovative gameplay of VR in exciting ways. It's just a shame that who own PCs now will really get 'cause it's seriously an all-time great and worthy addition to And that's all for today. Leave us a comment, let If you like this video, click like, if you're not subscribed, We upload brand new videos Best way to see them first so click subscribe. Don't forget to enable notifications and as always, we thank you very much for watching this video. I'm Falcon, you can follow We'll see you next time