This video was made possible by Curiosity Get access to exclusive content from the Real series and our new podcast by signing up to amazingly low price of 14.79 a year. In 1991 a Japanese physicist, Sumio Iijima, An experiment that introduced the world to how engineers approach design. Taking two graphite rods as electrodes, Sumio A spark arched between them and with it a vaporising the tip of the anode rod. As the carbon laden air settled on the chamber within it a strange new material appeared. Tiny single layer straws of carbon. Sumio Iijima had just created carbon nanotubes. [1] Laboratory testing of these mysterious little that these nanometer-wide hexagonal lattices known to man, and this was just As one of displayed. Carbon nanotubes are light, conductive and [2] It soon became clear that the carbon nanotube of futuristic new technologies. The most efficient computers, transformative the most ambitious of all, space elevators, Carbon nanotubes has promised to be the catalyst But, putting this revolutionary material to It turns out that building a fibre, that is length is incredibly difficult. To understand this fascinating molecule, let's Carbon is a very familiar element. It's in everything we eat, sleep on and It is the element that holds our DNA together. It forms the carbohydrates, proteins and lipids It's the basis of life as we know it. It's ubiquity in our lives is a result of It's chemical properties allow it to take material properties in diverse and unique To understand this we need to understand the orbits around the nucleus of an atom. To start we have the simplified bohr model, The first shell can contain 2 electrons, while An atom wants to fill each shell to be stable. Let's take an atom of carbon, which has [3] First we fill the first shell with it's to fill the next shell, leaving 4 open positions The 4 open positions mean that carbon willingly as itself. Often by sharing electrons in a special type This versatility allows carbon to create many Take hydrocarbons. Hydrogen has 1 electron, and seeks 1 electron So, carbon likes to form 4 covalent bonds outer shell, while helping hydrogen form a This is methane, an incredibly common molecule fuels. This is just one arrangement carbon can take. Hydrocarbons take a huge range of shapes and in is how carbon bonds to itself, but this understanding of how carbon to carbon bonds We need to dive a little deeper before we Electrons don't travel in neat 2D circular fact we can't even know the position and Instead we can make predictions about electrons' We call these orbitals, and they are regions electron is located somewhere within that This can get pretty complicated, but for now types. S and P orbitals. [4] S orbitals are spherical in shape with the P orbitals are often called dumbbell shaped, going to, because I have never seen a dumbbell It's more like a figure of 8 shape like In the ground state, electrons will occupy this case is the 1S orbital. It can hold two electrons. Next we have the 2S orbital, which is a larger Then we have our three P orbitals, one aligned holding 2 electrons. Carbon in its ground state has the 1S and Px orbital and one in the Py orbital. To be stable, Carbon wants to fill these three Now this where things get a little funky and Carbon can bond to itself in different ways Take diamonds. To fill these orbitals, carbon bonds with To do this it promotes one electron from it's [5] This Pz orbital is higher energy than want to stay there, so the carbon atom takes This is called sp3 hybridisation, which is something like this. Where one side of the figure of 8 expands The 2S and 3 P orbitals are transformed into They repel each other equally in this 3D space with 109.5 degrees between each lobe. Covalent bonds now form between the carbon head on in what's called a sigma bond. This creates a repeating structure like this atoms that makes diamond extremely hard. Now, what's fascinating to me, is that you graphite, a material so soft that we use it How does that work? Here a different hybridisation occurs. Once again 1 electron from the 2S orbital time the S orbital hybridizes with only 2 hybridization. [5] This gives us three SP hybrid orbitals This new arrangement causes the orbitals to themselves in a flat plane separated by 120 to them. Now, when the carbon atoms combine, the heads this flat hexagonal shape. A hexagon pattern is naturally a very strong For example, bees don't intentionally build They form as a result of the warm bee bodies in the strongest formation. [6] The shape is frequently used in aerospace is a priority. These SP2 bonds are stronger than SP3 bonds, This sounds complicated, but all it means a P orbitals. Because there are 3 SP bonds, they have a 4 SP bonds giving them 25% S character. S orbitals are closer to the nucleus, making than SP3 bonds, and thus stronger. [7] This hexagonal structure and strong bonds Laboratory testing of graphene using atomic young's modulus of 0.5 TPa and an ultimate [8] So strong that if we could somehow create can't, we could build an invisible single of a cat. [9] Imagine the amount of cats we could confuse. That's the world I want to live in. That's an entertaining, but not terribly common material and the form we are used to, This hexagonal shape itself is extremely strong, layer sheets with only weak van der waal forces slide over each other, which is the reason [10] Now what is interesting is that carbon nanotubes as graphite. The ends of the sheets are simply loops and this structure is what gives carbon nanotubes Researchers found that single-walled nanotubes about 130 Gigapascals. [11] For the non-engineers in the crowd, let me It's a lot. About 100 times greater than steel, and to If this material could be feasibly manufactured potentially open up entirely new design possibilities. Like the space elevator. I'd explain exactly why carbon fibres would did that in a past video that I will link So where are there space elevators? Here lies the difficulty. Manufacturing carbon nanotubes. Carbon nanotubes strength relies on creating in a long tube, and that process is not something So how can we create carbon nanotubes? Things have changed a bit since the days of The most promising method for industrial scale is chemical vapor deposition. [12] In this manufacturing method, a precursor is introduced into a vacuum chamber and heated. As the heat increases inside the chamber the begin to decompose. The carbon then diffuses into a melted metal This then becomes a metal-carbon solution, carbon. At this point the carbon starts to precipitate While the hydrogen bi-product is vented out Our research has focused on increasing the their structure, yield or quantity. While some labs have gotten individual tubes get larger bundles of tubes, which are called This is because the catalyst is guaranteed process, terminating the growth of the nanotube. The key to growing longer nanotubes is minimizing [14] In 2020, a research team based in Japan managed times longer than anyone else, using a new to keep the catalyst active for 26 hours. [15] They did this by adding a layer of gadolinium coated onto a silicon substrate. Then using a lower chamber temperature, small were added into the chamber. These factors combined managed to keep the longer. [16] This method is a major leap forward that could the market, but we are still a long way from Most products today call for the fibres to One study I found wove together 1 mm long that with an epoxy resin to form a composite strength of 1.6 Gigapascals. [17] Beating aluminium in its strength to carbon fibre composite. However, these new longer nanotubes may give It's important to remember that carbon nanotubes Their most exciting new term applications material properties. Like their conductive abilities. Like graphite, nanotubes are highly conductive, 3 other carbon atoms, each atom has 1 free conduction. Making carbon nanotubes excellent conductors. The conducting core of cables that make up from aluminium. Even though aluminium is a poorer conductor in power over the lines. It's used because it's cheaper and lighter. Allowing support structures for overhead lines Individual nanotubes are orders of magnitudes a yarn of nanotubes that could match copper Electrons move through individual nanotubes to an end the current meets resistance when So these longer tubes developed last year lighter than aluminium and more conductive [18] These could be used for grid connections, without supports and minimize the loss of price of nanotubes likely shuts that door. Instead we could see these wires being used They are even being investigated as a means the 787, survive lightning strikes. The 787 is primarily composed of carbon and they do not conduct electricity, the plane to protect it from lightning strikes, like a thin copper mesh. [19] This mesh adds weight that increases This could be drastically reduced by including composite instead. Nanotubes are quite elastic. Capable of stretching to 18% of their original after. This could allow conductive carbon fibre wires The carbon fibre threads can even be treated using a sewing machine. Perhaps the most exciting application is in [20] Carbon nanotubes are biocompatible. Meaning they are not toxic, non reactive, Combine this with their conductivity,flexibility as neural interface material. A large part of Neuralink, Elon Musk's neural on creating smaller wires and the machines Larger, stiffer wires tear into flexible brain form around the wire, preventing signals from Nanotube wiring could be made smaller and body. A potentially game changing material for biomedical As with every major material innovation, from of aviation, to silicon semiconductors opening nanotubes have the potential to open the door have yet to imagine. New materials radically change how and what processes for complex machines really gives change things. One of my favourite series on CuriosityStream. How to Build teaches you exactly that. An in depth series that takes you onto the wings and a satellites. It's a fantastic 3 parts series that along but along with this series you get access filmmakers, and you will get access to Nebula. The streaming service I started with over MBKHD, Wendover Productions and Mustard. Nebula, is the home of all of Real Engineering's the Logistics of D-Day series and our upcoming some time later this year. By signing up for this bundle deal you unlock these series and improves the quality of animations too. Sign up today for under 15 dollars to support and get an amazing deal for yourself in the If you are looking for something else to watch the future of nuclear space propulsion, or Biology of the Hammerhead Shark".