Transcriber: Tijana Mihajlovic I've been studying of literally thousands of people and one thing I have found, is that most of us have experienced at the beginning of a new relationship. You know what it's like where you can't eat, you can't sleep, because you're constantly thinking Your heart's racing, you feel that adrenaline rush and basically, you just want It's almost like an obsession. I bet if I asked you to close your eyes, you could definitely think back and remember that powerful that affects us physiologically. I know I can, and I've been married for 22 years. But when we're at the beginning of a new romance, many of us step back and ask the question: &quot;What am I feeling? Am I in lust or am I in love? What if I told you because there are four specific signs and the two states, lust and love, That would be wonderful, right? So let's start with lust. When you're drawn to someone, based solely on physical that's lust. You're filled with sexual desire and all of those sex hormones at an alarming rate; Also, when we're at a new relationship, we glorify or idealize our partner. We don't see them for who they really are. And in fact, we see them for who we want them to be You've heard the phrase &quot;love is blind&quot;? Well, at the beginning of a new romance, You're impressed by everything and anything In fact, it doesn't even matter that she has all of her stuffed animals or that he has absolutely no idea You don't see it. It doesn't bother you. But as time goes on in a relationship, those same behaviors, become annoying and irritating to you, and it's at that point in time this other person for who they really are; And by the way, yes, None of us is perfect. But at this point in time, lust declines. And I'm really sorry to disappoint you, but my research shows that lust declines It's an inevitable part I know. Sorry about that. (Laughter) But can lust be reignited Absolutely! My work with couples confirms that, and we're going to talk about But for the moment, that lust declines and if you stay with that relationship, Love it also a profound emotion, and has When we're in love, which triggers relaxation and promotes emotional bonding But that's actually the opposite that ignited all that lust in our body. Besides the hormonal differences there are also four cues that you can use The first sign is what I call connection. When you're in love, with all the important people You want them to spend time with, to like, hang out You want to show off them and you want your friends and family Also, you don't keep them to yourself, but you bring them out and the people who are important to you. The second sign is when you use &quot;we&quot; language It turns out their lives are intertwined, and they begin to think of themselves but instead, as a couple. And the more intertwined the more overlap in their lives, and in their circles in this diagram. And the more overlap between their lives, Mutuality is when we refer as an &quot;us&quot; or &quot;we&quot;, rather than as an &quot;I&quot;, So, for example, if I asked you if you were in love, you would tell me, &quot;We went to the movies&quot;, rather than,&quot;I took Sandy to the movies, or &quot;I went up north&quot;. So, if you want to distinguish look at your language, and the degree to which you use The third sign is self-disclosure, what you tell this other person about you. Love motivates us to reveal extensive information When we're in love, about our dreams, our aspirations, Sometimes we tell them and sometimes we tell them that we've never told anyone before. When we think about self-disclosure you want to think about an onion. The outer layers of an onion represent the superficial aspects and as you peel away you get at the core of who you are. You get deeper, and there's more information personal and intimate information. So, when you're in lust, You tell this other person your hobbies, movie, You don't go to the deep core of you. When you're in love, You share information but each topic also is deeper, You go straight to the core. So, if you want to distinguish look at what you're talking about and how many topics The last and fourth sign When two people are in love, what one person does or wants to do, in meaningful and strong ways. For example, if you were thinking about moving to a different state or you were considering you would want to go to your partner Likewise, if you had a medical scare, or the death of a family member - you would want to go to this person You would want help from this person. Or, if you had something good you won the lottery, you again would go to this person because you would want them And they actually So, lust and love are completely different and couples have a very difficult time maintaining that urgent longing Can you recreate that lust? Absolutely! My research shows that if you add three behaviors you can reignite or rekindle And those three behaviors turn out that ignited the lust So, if you mirror the beginnings you can add lust, rekindle The first strategy is to do new and novel activities because newness creates excitement. Think about it. At the beginning of your relationship, everything was a new experience Everything was new and novel. Every date you went on, was a new experience for the two of you, and that created the excitement, But then, as time went on, So if you want to recreate that lust, you need to find new and exciting things That can be as simple in a different part of the city You can try skating, skiing, for the first time with your partner. Boy, I have winter on the brain, don't I? Or, you can, like my husband and I did, Neither of us had done it separately, which fueled the lust. Anything new will recreate The second strategy that you want to do and add a little bit of mystery because mystery The idea is you want You want that to be recreated Again, think back. At the beginning, everything was different and interesting Yes, she told you that she had a pet snake and you went, &quot;What? Wow! or that he was closest and you asked a lot of questions, Any new or different, interesting, refuels that passion and lust. But then, as time goes on you begin to really know You know what they like to do on Sundays, and he chews with his mouth open, You really get to know your partner. And while that's wonderful, because that intimate knowledge So you again need to add And yes, all of what regarding lingerie and roleplaying (Laughter) But, you can also do other things. You can go to your partner's place of work and whisk them away for lunch, or you can send him a flirty text message One of the wives in my long-term study said that she took her husband and he went but she left these little notes and he found the experience and she said it added a little spice The third and final way is to do what I call This is my favorite suggestion, I see you all smiling (Laughter) it's actually clean. (Laughter) What relationship scientists if you do an arousal producing activity that that arousal or that adrenaline rush that's produced the arousal can actually get transferred It's almost like to attributing or associating to your partner or to your relationship. So, what am I really talking about then There are lots of things you can do. You can exercise You can watch You can even ride a roller-coaster ride In fact, if you go on any scary ride you can rekindle that passion transferred to your partner Now, just make sure, though, because if you do it with someone else, the arousal might get transferred and not your relationship. (Laughter) So, in the end, but moments of passion are the highlights of our lives In fact, ask anyone about the experience, and they'll definitely remember, and they have And don't get me wrong, I think lust is fun and wonderful, but lust is not the glue that keeps long-term relationships The glue that keeps people And love is also a profound experience, but it is characterized by interdependence, You do not have to have lust without love, and you don't have to have They don't have to be You can recreate that lustful desire - and I love saying that word, in your loving long-term relationship. It's simple, it's easy, it's amazing. What are you waiting for? Go do it! Thank you. (Applause)