In the heart of New York Harbor, stands of America, This slender and imposing New York skyscrapers. This statue is quite exceptional There are today only few statues With its 88 tons of copper, its 300,000 rivets, its 12-meter arm, this mastodon fascinates It was the most ambitious project However, this mega-American structure was architects and engineers First erected in the heart of Paris, before being assembled We tend to forget today that the Statue of Liberty is and that without it, perhaps What innovations did these designers use to make this Titan reach Everything had to be found, How does this colossal statue, perched on Bedloe Island, strong winds that can reach 200 km/h. When you think about it, in a place like this, is almost crazy. We are going to tell you about that lasted more than 20 years to create a unique world heritage. In the south of Manhattan, in New York, thousands of tourists flock to cruise ships. They are about to discover one of the Statue of Liberty. Each year, nearly 4 million visitors who became a universal symbol. It is the most famous monument It is the monument that has been Images of the Statue of Liberty are found on drink and pizza brands. The figure of liberty is everywhere. In a simple way, it is the symbol a subject that matters A symbol so strong that There are replicas all over the world. But none can match the original, Starting with Built on the remains of an ancient fort, are five meters deep The pedestal is 47 meters long. In total, the base of the statue is Never in history has so much concrete This unwavering foundation supports the 220 tons of the statue, It is the largest copper statue An architectural masterpiece rising that has become the emblem of America. And yet, the Statue of Liberty was It all started in 1865, in France, in a troubled time, the Second Empire. For 13 years, Emperor Napoleon III has It was an imperial regime, But Napoleon III was also a despot Napoleon III has a strong will to transform the city of Paris that influences the rest of Europe. Progress seduced the French people Napoleon III then allows led by intellectuals searching Among them was a man, Edouard Rene Lefebvre de Laboulaye, He thought that the United States was great because they had found a solution. There was no king and there was no more permanent coups or revolutions. Laboulaye has a double obsession: and establishing close relationships And the solution he advocates is Offer a monument to the United States their independence, which would A monument of enormous dimensions, so impressive that it will leave Among those who believe in his project, is a young sculptor with a passion Bartholdi was already He started his career at a very young age. He already had made several major He was deeply marked by the right of people He was a global citizen. But the two men will have to wait of the Second Empire in 1870, In agreement with De Laboulaye, Bartholdi decided to take the project The sculptor's first question was: what shape should this symbol be given? Bartholdi knew right away that he wanted He was very strongly impressed by ancient monumental statuary, since it is huge and lasts the longest. So to carry a message, It obviously had to be big For Bartholdi, it is obvious. Only a majestic colossus can hold the powerful symbol of liberty. As for the character represented, the sculptor has an idea that has haunted He had already a few years earlier leaned towards a similar project for another the construction of the Suez Canal. In 1867, the Suez Canal was ready and Bartholdi will have the idea of monumental statue with the features of a lantern to light the entrance serve in a somewhat symbolic way Bartholdi presented models to the Viceroy The disappointment is huge. But a few years later, the French sculptor to the idea of his monumental statue He was in denial. He never wanted to admit during his life first designed for the Suez Canal. And yet the similarities are striking. In Egypt as in the United States, in an elegant drape, holding up a torch. This time, Bartholdi intends In June 1871, he went to He sets out on this journey to find were to build this statue, As soon as he arrived in New York, a piece of land And he immediately has a flash. He understood that there was not just a landscape had to be invented. This is where his monument should be the first vision of the New World, So much so that we can without the Statue of Liberty That is the genius of Bartholdi. On Bedloe Island, the colossus would be The location is ideal. The project then took its place He still had to inform the Americans He got to New York, he didn't know anyone, So huge that to launch the construction, Bartholdi must raise a staggering sum. That is also the purpose of this trip, find private funds, because to be financed by the people The Statue of Liberty needed to be funded by the French, just as the pedestal was So, this monument was designed that was supposed to receive, the Many Americans did not understand Why would the French want to give such a strange gift for their Americans are reluctant to And another big problem was that Bedloe Island, which is housing It must therefore be approved He decided on his own where he wanted The Americans thought he was a bit crazy. It shows how daring he was. He did not hesitate to meddle to install his goddess in the right place. As a report, Bartholdi currently has neither the money Back in France, the sculptor continue to seek funds by all means. In 1875, they managed That's enough to get the job started, Bartholdi went into this without at the beginning, that he would manage Work began in the Gaget Gauthier studios, in the 17th arrondissement of Paris. A race against time is on. There is just one year left before the hundredth anniversary The sculptor's ambitions are excessive because he wanted to build a statue But building such a colossus Bartholdi must innovate. The construction of has been a very complex thing. It was an innovation. It was necessary to proceed in stages. A first model of 1.20 meters, like the one behind me, 2.11 meters tall, of arts and crafts and then The last model measures 22 meters, This quarter model will be used not a full-size model, it would have been but for fragments of pieces The sculptor cuts his plaster model On each of these fragments, With the help of compasses, of plumb lines and rules, he carries out to obtain a virtual volume In all, 9,000 measures are required. And to achieve his feat, proceed with the enlargement On a squared wooden frame, he reports the coordinates The sculptor can thus reconstruct In all, his statue will rise to A world first. Perhaps the biggest difficulty was judging to the naked eye the final appearance even though it was only created In the Gaget studios, they are continuing to produce But the technical difficulties are far The statue must be built in France and on an island plagued by windstorms What material should be used And for this colossus Traditionally, a statue of a person or an equestrian statue, of a certain thickness, a few centimeters. But for a statue like the weight of the structure was The only solution he had left, was a thin copper skin, a very light and a half of copper that could be The paradox of the Statue of Liberty is but is structured Light weight is not the only advantage This material is also extremely sturdy and flexible, slightly under the pressure All that remains is to design the molds First step, carpenters build structures that reproduce the curves of the statue. Then these skeletons are covered with a layer of plaster that reveals Last operation. These plaster make molds that will be used for hammering copper. These large molds represented The copper sheets were first Then, the workers would molds to give them the shape of a part, In all, 350 sheets must be modelled So many pieces that will ultimately From 1875, ironworkers and carpenters work hard to move the construction site forward But July 4, 1876, the hundredth the United States is approaching fast If you lived in 1876 you would certainly think that he would The engineering part was Bartholdi himself doubted that he would When the manufacturing in Paris in 1875, for the hundredth anniversary So the top priority was to do everything to release at least the hand holding the torch, presented at the Philadelphia World's Fair The Philadelphia World's Fair is a major event for Americans. The United States is 100 years old. It is an opportunity to rise The universal exhibitions, in London in 1851, to compete economically and industrially. It's a good way to see what's going on elsewhere, how do they do it, or get a good head start. Bartholdi knows that he has no right The 1876 Philadelphia Exposition is his only chance to be able to finish If he did not succeed in convincing he will do it because And he intends to impress the world. full thanks to its 12-meter-high hand. The gigantic sculpture arrives in but the exhibition is far from over Immediately, and becomes the unmissable attraction It was the most popular attraction Everyone wanted to see it. It was bombarded with photos. Journalists were shocked. You could go inside and climb To get on the torch, you have to buy to replenish the coffers And that's not all. Bartholdi turns into a marketing genius technological revolution of the time, Bartholdi had all the stages of the at the Ateliers Gaget-Gautier in Paris. So these images are going to be sold, and relayed by the press to give And this visibility is of course In total, the universal exhibition representing 20% of the population Thanks to this success and the numerous But above all, he gets the prize he had In 1877, the American Congress which formalizes The members of Congress saw a lot of interest in the statue no particular project for Bedloe Island. So they were ready to take the risk. The statue finally has its place. The boxes are full. Everything seems to be becoming But in reality, the hard part is still Because to achieve his prowess, to have its 46-meter-high copper To find the solution to this puzzle, he called on the greatest architect The restorer of The construction star, of Notre-Dame de Paris, Eugene Viollet le Duc, is asked to think about In the body of the statue, with compartments that could have been Why? To weight the statue, This solid anchor distributed all along the deformation of the copper This innovative technique is also In case of damage, they simplyhad to inside the statue and carry out Thanks to this technical solution, Bartholdi thinks he will finally start But he still had money problems, because finances are in the red again. Where can Bartholdi find the hundreds of thousands of francs The young sculptor has It is 1878 and the new The Universal Exhibition, 1878, for nations, it is truly a time It is accessible and the workers have the right to a day off to be able to go there. In the end, there are 16 million of visitors who will come to Paris, The exhibition takes up residence Bartholdi wants to achieve the same This time he decided to exhibit the most emblematic fragment of And once again, the sculptor proved to be In 1878, Bartholdi imagined bringing allowing the public to take ownership of this work and be aware It is a huge success. They sell souvenirs, small statuettes, engravings that represented things that seem very trivial to us but which were totally revolutionary He invented this form of advertising. Products derived from the statue and Bartholdi believes that his project is But fate is running out. In 1879, Eugene Viollet le Duc died He have to start all over again. What architect can be up to Who will be able to find that will make it possible to support Bartholdi will find his salvation with of the greatest engineer of the time, the master of metallic structures, When Bartholdi called on Gustave Eiffel, he was already a considerable personality of metallic in France, I think that is the term for innovation that we should remember Eiffel has just made an impression still on site today, A project that would never have been For the first time in history, humans are capable of producing iron A revolution that will change everything Needs are changing because society is in full evolution industrially We need buildings that I am thinking of train stations, department stores that require buildings with no intermediate load-bearing points of buyers and that could not have been on a large scale at that time. The iron is strong, durable This makes it possible to build bigger, But above all, it paves the way the construction in spare parts. It is a process that is similar to a parts in the factory that will then be regardless of its location, and mounted by Pieces produced in France It's ideal for Bartholdi's project, because his statue must be erected The construction site becomes nothing We work in the factory to do as many and we assemble what is strictly This is the principle that will govern the construction of the frame of To support the copper envelope, will offer an ultra-modern iron For Gustave Eiffel, or even 50 meters with its arm, And he imagines a solution radically He imagines an interior pylon, This central pylon is composed It is reinforced over its entire height by Saint Andre crosses This tower is extremely sturdy, but it is not enough to withstand So, Eiffel imagines a mesh of secondary This wire mesh may slightly deform, thereby If iron is the right answer this miracle material creates Its lightness poses stability problems. The metal construction is lightweight, than heavier constructions. To fight against the wind, the main technique is that The triangle is a geometric figure known Therefore, a triangle metal structure is To prevent its structure from bending too Eiffel organizes its metal mesh in But another problem is that the copper By putting pressure on the structure, The engineer then adds a third that comes closest to the dress. These small flat irons serve as springs. They allow you to actually hang the dress rigid and give it the flexibility needed This structure supporting of the Statue of Liberty is made up all of which will have to be A huge iron puzzle We tend to forget today that the Statue of Liberty is and that without it, perhaps It is still the first monument of this size in the history of mankind. The Eiffel structure validated, each of In 1881, after six years the entire inner skeleton is ready. But the hardest part is yet to come, ensure that the Eiffel system is Bartholdine didn't want to have the responsibility to send the statue to New York Bartholdi undertakes an assembly test of the Statue of Liberty to test This assembly test in the courtyard of the workshops, 350 workers work tirelessly to mount the copper sheets But the puzzle doesn't always An imprecision could compromise There were several trials during When he hung up a part, So, Bartholdi has to test and adjust As the statue rises, Parisians discover which was then the tallest monument The statue will also play this role of these new technologies, in the contemporary world of the 1880s. Meanwhile, on the other side Americans are busy fulfilling their part The task is huge, because we need to support a 220-ton mastodon, It's Richard Morris Hunt, and Francophile, who will be appointed But before tackling the technique, he must first decide on the aesthetics. Richard Morris Hunt had a difficult job. He wanted to create a work in itself impressive, the Statue of Liberty itself. Hunt had to find the right formula to express a classic base, He had small loggias designed So, there was quite a complex job. Hunt stops on a 27-meter-high pylon, But to the aesthetic problem will soon a much more complicated one. A massive fort still exists So where to lay the foundations Hunt entrusts this challenge Charles Stone, who, for his part, There was enough classic fortification with redons which gave a kind We use this base, in a way, this fort. We will of course in particular to dig the foundations A five-meter-deep ditch is dug To properly distribute the forces exerted Charles Stone decided to give with a base twice as big as This base represents 20,000 tons In the center there is a well of with stairs that will allow visitors A structure as titanic as it is revolutionary. It was at this moment that we imagined of concrete which was emergin It was the largest quantity of concrete ever written The newspapers of the time even had fun that to topple the statue, you would have At the end of 1884, Now it is time to tackle the base. But Hunt is running into He is out of money. $100,000 is missing for the construction of the pedestal and the American elite The construction site comes to an end. Some Americans said to themselves, why do we have to pay half of it? It was not our idea and when you don't say, "I pay half and The situation was completely Time is running out, because in Paris, and loaded onto the ISER. A French Navy cargo ship The colossus is on the way to the United States, It is then that this journey A new character will emerge in this story. New York's most influential media Pulitzer was an entrepreneur in the newspapers, and who had bought He thought that rich people All they cared about was making money. Pulitzer really believed in the symbolism Pulitzer decided to take up He writes heated op-eds accusing publicly selfish rich Americans. And he's going to have a brilliant idea. Engaging its readers directly. He started a subscription saying, "You you'll get your name on the front page Seeing his name in the newspaper was So thousands of people rushed to donate. That's how he managed to reunite $100,000 in a very short time, Thanks to Pulitzer, the Statue of Liberty In May 1885, construction resumed. But for Charles Stone, the pedestal is because you have to find a way He will then imagine The pedestal acts as a massive anchor The statue is fixed on a first beamed bed of beams halfway up the pedestal, | in tension and pulled the statue down. The vertical tie rods go down to more in depth of the colossus But in this technological journey, a fixed problem always causes The spare parts for the statue have been Scattered across the island, An operation that turns out to be We couldn't put up scaffolding because it's too windy in New York Bay. The statue and the scaffolding risked to hit each other So it took longer to get to New York No choice. You have to adapt to the The project managers then set up The workers pull the pieces one by one in balance to Despite these incredible constraints, The colossus went up in just four months. On October 28, 1886, the Lady Hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers to discover the tallest However, once it is completed, New Yorkers see that The inauguration gives rise to festivities, boats parading, fireworks. It's a big party that's going to cost quite expensive, but really of a statue that was immediately On this day in 1886, New Yorkers also saw the numerous enigmatic elements The torch, the tables showing the date of These are all symbols that will directly The fact of having given to this statement of independence the shape of the tables It showed the sanctity o At his feet, a broken chain liberty and the breaking of the chains The Statue of Liberty takes a step, That is to say that liberty, philosophically, is not a given, It is humanity that advances, The radiating rays of the head of the statue recall god of the sun in Greek mythology, But the most impressive thing, is his torch covered The torch in the right hand lights up Its light would in some way Over the years, this figure of liberty leaves such a strong imprint progressively the embodiment But a century later, The colossus that Americans are In 1984, the Statue of Liberty was covered with scaffolding from head to toe. Iron frames holding copper sheets corroded and some parts have lost Iron and copper don't mix. The contact between the two metals, corrosion, especially when there is rain, For the American authorities, no choice but to replace rusty iron A total of 1800 parts need to be changed. A titanic project that will require But corrosion is not the only problem. There is another, much more worrying one. The colossus's arm begins to sag And the cause of the harm When Bartholdi mounted he didn't like the angle of his arm So he changed that angle. The problem is that Bartholdi did not In reality, the arm was not built exactly as originally planned by Eiffel. About 60 centimeters were deported. In the original plans, Eiffel designed the arm directly to the central pylons, But as Bartholdi built it, the limb is only fixed As a result, the arm is tilted forward The consequence would have been The torch would no longer be raised proudly to the sky, but leaning over. The symbol takes a hit. The architects then faced Return to the structure of Eiffel The second option is chosen. This is a major challenge for scientists. What do you do to save a colossus built 100 years ago and whose To solve this problem, it was necessary to understand the sun and especially You know, in New York Bay, winds can reach 150,180, 200 km per hour. To reconstruct the structure the architects are going The statue will be photographed Then they will use technology For three years, the statue was riddled with sensors that measure the reaction These results will make it possible to and to identify each point They still have to find a way The solution that was chosen was in rigid steel at the top of the tower These extremely strong reinforcements link at the pylon at three different locations, by the wind, but also to resist The statue is exactly as Bartholdi to stand for centuries to come. Few monuments in history have known as many twists and turns and pitfalls This metal monster, 46 meters high, gave a hard time to a few of the most brilliant French engineers From Viollet le Duc to Gustave Eiffel. Not to mention, of course, its awesome inventor Bartholdi, to materialize this symbol