It's me, you're crazy. I've given all the evidence to the police, haven't you seen the results? The police are lying. Idiot, I told you to stop investigating. You don't listen. You are obviously investigating yourself . But you don't believe me. I trust you to fight for your own living space . Don't you understand the simple truth? Westerners are just one-minded. Shut up and don't scold me in a language I don't know. That's good. You also know that I'm scolding you. CUT06 AU Y The fifth day of the lunar month. Go quickly. T Ooi On the fifth day of the lunar month , I am not as useless as he said. The information I gave to the police are all photocopies and the originals will be sent to the newspaper in two days. It is because I doubt the police that I will test them. Smart, little friend , Lao Zhang, look at this person. How thoughtful you are. This is smart. I think you two are the same. You two are really on the same page . The electronic information is here for a few days. I just want to write a report. I have to cover everything at once, can't I? Let anyone have the opportunity to cover up and hide the most What is intolerable is the collusion between police and criminals . It is disgusting. Greed can turn good people into bad people. Conscience can also turn bad people into good people. Morality is the standard for measuring good and evil. I will give Interpol a copy of this information. Demi, what are you looking at? This is the body armor One piece of protection. Demi immediately entered the woods and walked. Hold me down. Demi walked and hid behind me. The fifth day of the fifth day . The fifth day of the fifth day. The fifth day of the fifth day. The fifth day of the fifth day. No , no , not good. I give up . Position Demi , you are so protective of her , why haven't you seen you taking pity on me? Cherish your beauty, what are you doing ? I told you that it has nothing to do with you. Didn't I let you go home? Who asked you to come? I like you, okay ? There is an old Chinese saying that there are no rules . Bad things can't be done no matter how much money you give. If you don't have money, you have to do it even if you risk your life . Observe the environment to facilitate escape. Smart girl , I'm not feeling well. I'm calm but don't make any moves. When I fall into someone's hands, I don't curse or get angry. I avoid irritating the enemy. You are very smart. You are so good. It's a pity to be a reporter. Why didn't you kill me? No wonder Zhang is willing to take action with you It's amazing to be able to analyze the situation under such circumstances, especially for a little girl like you. What do you want to do? Don't worry. The boss behind the scenes you want to investigate has been killed by me, so the transaction is invalid. Now in a free country, I have the final say. Stubborn like Zhang. I 've given him too many opportunities , but it's a pity that he doesn't know how to cherish them. It's a pity that I have to do something to him. Fear is a good start. If you are really smart, you should know the benefits of cooperating with me. What can I do between us ? Your professional news Report OPX-3782 (Information is being uploaded to the police website) Write a report according to your previous plan . This is an important moment in your journalistic career. The duty of a reporter is to seek truth from facts. Free countries traffic in refugees. This is a fact. All you have to do is not mention the police. Proper concealment is very important. Civilians don't need to know so much. I can provide you with all the information you need. The boss is an accountant from a free country. He will help you expose the crimes of a free country and hand them over to the government. All the real financial resources are in your hands . Just take this opportunity to divert public attention Line, you are so awesome, you are so smart. If I don't agree, I can also find someone else. The only trouble is that the information they have is not as comprehensive as yours. But I still have time, so what good can I do to save my own life? Why don't you think you are not enough to write news? In addition to evidence, we need to see the facts to make people believe, move and empathize , so that the things you want to hide can be safely put in. These children who are about to be transported can be handed over to the police. You saved them. The police deserve credit. I want to see this before dawn. If there is a chance, I hope we can cooperate more. You are beautiful . I am beautiful . I like you. There is no Internet here. Don't do stupid things. Hurry up and write the news. We are all happy. You should change your job. This is not a good thing. Do you know why Mr. Marcus asked you not to write about the police? That is the best umbrella and cannot be discarded. It is huge. Wealth, you will be judged, and God will not forgive you. Refugees are not God's people, but He will punish you evildoers. Shut up and get to work . What's going on? Sit down and keep working. I knew you were okay. I knew you were going to get out of here right away. Don't kill me. You stand up. Don't kill me. Come on here. There is evidence of collusion between the police and human traffickers, we need to bring it with us, and I have already written half of the report. We can't throw it away. God won't punish you. If I punish you for killing people, just stop doing it. You should just be your reporter. No, no, don't kill me. Get down and stay. Call the police right away. Zhang Chen, you win . I won't let you go