This time we are introducing the first champion of Tokyo Olympic 2021.Janja Garnbret. I want to introduce Janja Garnbret's charm and her climb skill. Janja's highlights - Dynamic Climb Janja's strength is this dynamic climb. She has the strong back muscle to retain from big swings. On top of that, she is good at controlling her body and jumps over to the next hold precisely. We can say she has the world's most dynamic climb. Innsbruck WC's first boulder of the final game. She consecutively catches the next hold right after holding on to one. This is pretty hard. It is hard to maintain the momentum while going to the left hold. Stasha showed us a great example of this skill. She held on perfectly using her long arms and legs. Using her tall body, she can step onto the rock properly while still holding her hands still. That is why she can easily reach the next hand position. This technique is so much harder for those who are more than 10 cm shorter than her. If they try to step on with their feet, they cannot dig in their hands. On the other hand, if they try to maintain their hand position, their feet come to the air. Every player tries this part over and over again but fails their strategies. This one is impossible. However, there is only one player, Janja, who could clear this boulder. Woah. Unlike other players, she does this very easily. These two players are about the same height. Swing the legs wide to get the momentum. Using that momentum, bring the body closer to the wall. Adjust the body placement by bringing the left hand as close to the body as possible. She utilizes a series of movements as her strategy. She finishes by dynamically climbing onto the last hold. She was the only player to finish this task which led her to victory. Janja showed us her dynamic move as she is. 2019: Switzerland WC final round of the final game. This is a crucial surface to decide victory. The dynamic movement, in the beginning, is the curx. It requires them to catch two holds consecutively. But the hold here is very bad. The hold is not pointy and does not have a place to hold onto. A strategy of matching the first hold is influential. But, they cannot stop even with this strategy. The trick to this requires a variety of elements including body control and grip strength. Without any players clearing this part, Janja's - currently in the first place - turn has come. She stopped! Janja brings her body closer to the wall by bending the elbow and using the entire muscles including the pectoral and back. Her technique to stop the swing is amazing, too. And the dynamic top catch. She won the victory after this hardest boulder. She has no enemy in terms of her dynamic climb. Janja's highlights - Powerful Climb to The End. Lead climbing with the support of a lifeline to climb the tall wall. This differs from bouldering and requires agility, yet she is also the best player in the world in lead. Her agility is also being demonstrated greatly in bouldering. 2018: Innsbruck WC second boulder of the final. This is a hard boulder with having to consecutively maintain a difficult body position. In the beginning, they have to climb by supporting the body with just their grips. The hold barely has the space for two fingers. They have to maintain that hold and bring up the leg. On top of the difficult body position, the next hold is pretty far away. No players can reach their legs to the next step. Because they have to maintain the difficult position, it requires them retentivity and agility. Jesica showed us an interesting move. What is that? Yet, she still could not reach it. Let's look at Janja's performance. She reached one leg but still cannot go over with this position. Is she really supporting all her body weight right her? She screws her body into the wall and extends the leg. What is this? Petra also climbed uniquely. Was she expecting this? It is unreal. She must have been tired to move her hands all the way here. Moving to the next position from here is also very difficult. She could not stretch enough from fatigue. Janja also goes to midway, but she has already used up quite a strength. It is unbelievable, but she started resting her hands in this position. It is her strength to rest even in a difficult position like this. Then she tries to move onto the zone-hold. What? Is there suction on your body? She rests again and fixed the position. She could not complete climbing all the way, but Janja was the only one to reach the zone-hold. It is her strength to be patient and use the power while fatigued. 2019:Climbing world championship. Hachioji, a second boulder of the final game. This is tiring on both fingers and body stem. This crux gets harder as they go higher. The first rough spot is here. This part uses fingers and body stem a lot because its tilt is very shallow and the direction of the hold is not at the best spot. Each player tries many attempts to go through this part. Yet, this gets harder as you go higher. The last hold before the goal. You have to jump to that little extra hold. The body position is not good but you have to maintain that. Mori has strong agility. But she drops at the end. The load on fingers and body stem is a lot. Many players went close to the goal point, but could not save energy at the end. Everyone is tired. Let's see Janja's performance. She struggled in the beginning. It took her more than 1 minute to do this point. It is not surprising if she is already tired. Yet she goes to the first point. She stopped the swing easily. And the goal point where many struggled. She got it so easily. She finishes looking as if she just started. Agility and strength. That is her reason for victory. Janja's highlights - Techniques to Maintain Various Holds. There are different types of holds and each has different ways of grip. As well as the movement, each player has a specialty in the specific hold. A lot of time, ranking is decided based on whether you are good at the holder's grip or not. 2021: Switzerland WC first holder of the last game. This holder requires the skill to hold onto two different types of holds. The first one is this big and round hold. This does not have any grip and requires the ability to get close to the wall. The second one is these thin holds. Thin, that is all. This first hold is very bad. The next one is also a difficulty so they cannot just use the momentum. In order to move onto the next one, they have to maintain at the first hold. A player who cleared this part was Natalia. It seems very easy for her to hold onto the round one. But, the second thin part. She seems pretty painful. She was able to hold onto them but could not maintain it to make the move. Katja showed us a different move. She used her elbow and moved hands without holding onto the round hold. But, like Natalie, she could not maintain the thin holds. This is Janja's first try. She maintains the hold where many could not. She also holds onto the thin ones very well. That is why she can make the right move. Flash! She gripped onto those two holds and she was the only one to complete this holder. Too strong... Lastly, let's take a look at Janja's moment when a big record was achieved. This holder determines the victory for the 2019 world cup all 6 tournaments victory. There were about 100 participants and she won 6 times. Simply calculating, it is a probability of one in one trillion. She stopped!!! Flash! At this moment she made a big record of the 2019 world cup all 6 tournament victory. The legend of climber was born. Applause of praise from other players, too. Janja made a comment with tears saying "This was my lifetime goal". I am sure her victory and hard work opened up more opportunities for her. She made the victory in Tokyo Olympics and kept it ongoing. She is only 22 and still improving. I am sure she will keep leading the climbing industry. I am excited see what other climbings she will show us.