It's the dead of night in the mean streets On one particular street, a man's horse Something has frightened it. The guy then lights a match and makes a grizzly sliced from ear to ear. What this man doesn't know is Jack the Ripper If he pricked his ears, he'd probably hear of just cutting that poor woman's neck. The Ripper should have been seen that night. He should have been caught. In fact, as you'll see in this show, it stopped in his tracks there and then. That man's name was Lewis Diemschutz. We are going to come back to him and explain but let's first give you a small introduction killer. One of the reasons it was difficult to catch in the 1880s were a giant labyrinth that was Some of the slum areas were ripe for murder around by themselves in the dark looking for The area of Whitechapel, where the Ripper in those days with people living in abject When folks couldn't get any work, some of Many of the women turned to what's sometimes In fact, in 1880, there were a total of 62 alone. Some of those women lived in lodging houses. These were about the cheapest places you could Some of the rooms even had a rope you could This is where we get the term "hangover", rope. The rope cost two pence a night, and while and all the dangers that lurked there. This was the kind of place where Jack the It was a cauldron of violence, vice, racism, In other words, it was an ideal place to kill less than caring about victims of this so-called But once the Ripper got going, he was hard That was because of the extreme nature of It's thought he killed five people for sure, have murdered as many as 11 people. For instance, no one is certain if he killed She'd fallen on hard times and become a about her: suggested that there had been a time when There was a touch of culture in her speech, In the wee hours of April 3, 1888, she was She didn't die instantly but went into a Was this the work of the Ripper? It's hard to know. She wasn't mutilated like many of his later nonetheless. Then there was Martha Tabram, an alcoholic and causing general havoc. On August 6, 1888, she and some other women expression goes, got hammered. She was later found dead, again with horrifying Those included being stabbed in the heart The killer also stabbed her nine times in The term "overkill" was suitable here, Detective Edmund Reid was on the case. A mysterious man had been seen that night put a bunch of men in the line-up. Nothing came of that. There's a slim chance it could have been was close to being caught that night, although soon see. One of the reasons this woman is said to have is the fact she wasn't skillfully mutilated, The murder weapon used to kill her was also Now we come to the first victim who is included She was Mary Ann Nichols, known as Polly to She was killed on August 31 that same year. Yep, that is such a short time after the last were terrible places to live back then, so women in the East End in those months. The MOs might have been similar in the murders, That's why you are watching a video about It was his method of killing that made headlines Killers were two a penny, but skilled mutilators Polly had also had a tough life, at times London's brutal workhouses and other times On the night of August 30, she went to Frying It seems she might have spent all her cash, house for not being able to pay her rent. She looked at the landlord that night and See what a jolly bonnet I've got now." Maybe she thought her new bonnet would help a bed that night. Early in the morning, she was seen staggering Slurring her words, she said to an acquaintance, today, and I have spent it." Those were the last words anyone ever heard Charles Allen Cross was the man that found What's amazing, is that when Cross found 10 minutes. The Ripper couldn't have gotten far in that In fact, cops interrogated three horse slaughterers. They were Harry Tomkins, James Mumford and They'd been close to the scene of the crime As we said, the killer had to be nearby. Someone had to have seen something. The cops were also taken aback by the sheer The woman had not only had her throat cut, so, her insides were spilling out. A six to eight inch knife had been used, possibly experts that some anatomical skill had been There were so many injuries to Polly that been working on her for a full five minutes. And this was out in the open! Also, on his escape, the killer will have Was this man invisible or something?! Surely someone had to have seen something. Upon investigation, this is what the coroner "It seems astonishing, at first thought, for there must surely have been marks of blood Still, he said that with their being so many walking around with bloodstained clothes, of it. Now there had been three brutal murders, although by the same person. It was at this time that London's infamous the city. Nowhere seemed safe. Then on September 8, there was the grisly Her life was also a tale of woe. She had a problem with the booze, which worsened her disabled son in care. Then her husband split with her and took the of those rundown Whitechapel lodging houses. After her husband died from his alcoholism, She made money doing odd jobs after that, desperate. At 5:15 a.m. that morning, a man heard a woman's He didn't bother to investigate, and so if things had been a little bit different. She was found at 6 am nearby and hadn't This is what one of the doctors said in his "The instrument used at the throat and abdomen It must have been a very sharp knife with least 6 to 8 inches in length, probably longer. The injuries could have been done by such purposes." Those injuries matched the ones on Polly, some anatomical knowledge due to the fact organs. The press went crazy, making up stories that been to blame. One report said, "Whatever information may it necessary to keep secret. It is believed their attention is particularly 'Leather Apron'." A man named John Pizer was arrested and interrogated. He was known as Leather Apron, and he had proved his innocence and even claimed some and shamed him. It might not have been him, but whoever it area. Yet again, it seemed the culprit had a mask But in the next murder, he must have basically Louis Diemschutz had spent the day of September At the end of the day, feeling tired, he took Little did he know that as he approached the Elizabeth Stride. Again, her life was full of tragedies, a story Her misfortune led to her working as a prostitute, to pay for her room in the slum. Stride had been spotted about 11 pm that night He was also said to have been well-dressed We may never know if he was the Ripper. At around 12.45 am, she was seen again with This was just after a policeman had seen her describe it as being a bowler hat. Whoever the man was, Stride had apparently Not tonight. Some other night." Just before 1 am, she was seen by at least with a man. The Ripper was certainly a brazen killer, he still carried the act through to its bloody It was at 1 am when Diemschutz's horse could He later explained: morning and returned home exactly at one am, I noticed the time at a tobacco shop in the I was driving a pony harnessed to a costermonger's It was as he entered the yard that his pony Diemschutz thought he could see something had no idea what it was. That's why he pulled out some matches. Now with the glow of the match, he pulled the floor. It was then that he realized it was a body, What he didn't know is that she'd only He actually thought at one point that the This was the East End, coming across a passed many drinks was not unusual at all. Diemschutz said so much in a statement, which "I took no further notice of it but went I found her in the front-room on the ground-floor. I left the pony in the yard by itself just My wife was with several of the members of I told them. 'There is a woman lying in the yard, but He subsequently left the scene, got himself It was then that he noticed all the blood. He then ran through the streets looking for to the body with another man. Not one to understand much about contaminating body. He saw that her throat had been cut from ear The actual autopsy report stated that Stride cheese and potatoes. It also said: It was six inches in length and commenced the angle of the jaw, three-quarters of an deeper, dividing the sheath. The cut was very clean and deviated a little The arteries and other vessels contained in This time, though, he didn't remove any Maybe he didn't have time. Several families lived in that area. Then even more people came forward and said with a man. Another person said the man had a mustache. Not only that, but the International Working a steward, was full of people singing and This place was right next to where the murder Had they not been singing, people would have window that was open. That's debatable, though, seeing as the had a chance to scream. If he did coimmit this murder, he sure had That's because about 45 minutes later, not She'd been slashed over the face and had The autopsy report said, "The peritoneal the left kidney carefully taken out and removed. ... I believe the perpetrator of the act must of the organs in the abdominal cavity and Still, it has always been disputed if such Some thought, no, but the killer might have What was certain is that all those mutilations Another doctor testified that when he arrived 40 minutes. It should be said in those days there was still, doctors had a fairly good idea about So, the Ripper had committed two murders in He might have rushed the first one, seeing noses. Even with the second one, he could easily That's when the killer really started to Either he began a correspondence with the hoax. After these murders, a postcard was sent to letter - accompanied with a kidney. Part of the letter read: women prasarved it for you tother piece I I may send you the bloody knif[e] that took signed It might have been a hoax, but at the time, explode in the global media. As you know, there were only two more canonical victims, too. But the Ripper really should have been caught As Diemschutz later said, the Ripper must he arrived on the scene. He wrote, "It would have been quite possible I was driving up to the club door. but after I had told the members what I had The cops speculated that the Ripper must have when he took evasive action. In fact, they said that when Diemschutz lit was standing nearby in the shadows. It must have been when Diemschutz went to Think about it. If Diemschutz hadn't gone to get the candle in the club would have come out and likely The Ripper wouldn't have killed again, and as just another set of gruesome events in of thing. Now you need to know more about Jack and watch He Never Found?" Or, find some answers with "You Won't Believe Reveals His Identity."