[APPLAUSE] Good morning. To be a little bit is sometimes a flower in a lot of companies. So let me ask you, believe that user research Raise your hands. Can I tell you how Because 10 years ago, that would And if you're not come and talk to me at lunch. I'm very good at convincing Now, a lot of you How many of your teams on a regular cadence? Not bad. Keep them up if all the right think it's valuable, too. Couple down. How many of you-- have as much impact as you want OK, congratulations. He's another great person Most people don't that they do has all of the given all of the and all of the wonderful, that they bring back from So we know a lot to actually get research done. There's our flower. We need to be able We need to be able to We need to be able with something to what they think about it. Most of the time, in a for-profit to offer them some kind of and trouble. We need to bring and through the whole thing, we need to take We can do all these things without very much changing. So what do we actually need I wrote this first this is really the Because any time somebody or half hour of their trying to do something that matters. It matters because the person receiving and it changes them in to your company. But it still may so let's ask the question-- what do we need to a really thriving flower across the organization? We need some other things. We need allies-- we need throughout the company. We need budget, although I'll talk about that in a bit, where you are. We need people in the company in research and we need that we can show on the product or the it is we're designing. And as I was starting a couple of months ago, a named Adam Thomas tweeted this is fantastic. So Adam is not a researcher. He's a product manager. But what he's casually in less than 280 characters that's thriving and valued. Let me unpack a little It's a chore, but he's report that obviously summarizes happening, and his eyes light up when the reward for doing it. If you are doing real connected and sharing it with in your organization, who and they're excited to know that it's going to And the biggest is that you're doing real and that people around know that it helps them. These are the two hardest And the rest will follow So when does research The simple answer when it answers a question that about. One of the best is to find out what do Can you become the to questions that other people So a couple of things for you to become that source. You have to know You have to know who's They have to know that So if it sounds a talking about a meta-user And like so many user if you go out and just what can research might not get the right answer. But in almost any organization, no matter how tied to KPIs there are feelings and I'm very intentionally with words that aren't If there's something on in the analytics, and nobody knows what you are the person who can do qualitative research. If people are using the product or if customers are coming the set of things you thought you are the one who can And all those things and curiosity is where We want to find out what But we need people When I say power I don't necessarily mean So we were talking Aarron was talking about the one designer Now often, that designer has but sometimes there are maybe around-- maybe like So maybe we've got to a hun-- or one like that engineers. So those engineers collectively and in fact, a lot want to give engineers So if you can find an engineer that is a person who can and whose questions you I have an engineer who joined really nice guy, has And I said, well, Do you want to come see Why don't you come with we're going to talk to people And I gave him a script going ask you to take notes this the first time. And it was a script about but not terribly emotional where you have to prove to the A little bit bureaucratic. And I kind of watched as he was doing research and I've got to tell I didn't know what our and I've got a bunch of Now, he's not a designer, so he to realize those things But guess what? He is hooked on and he's not that researcher who One of the most we found at 18F digital transformation, talk about a little that people who are in are incredibly So these are people senior managers, directors, are one of the top ICs. They tend to have tons of especially if they have been And those people And so if you can interest any that they are having you are going to start finding and you're going have more space for research. To do all of this, your research It can't be something inside your it can't be something in strange jargon-y have to put as much effort as into practicing. And part of this think about what I just being one specialist researcher engineers, it's functioning almost everywhere, been around for a long time. So when I said that 10 have raised their hands and people have been working on And now we're at the space where but not everybody So if you can create to ask questions about about their customers and learn. Here's a way to think of research practice. The people who work if you have a research lucky enough to have that. Then you've got your product managers, everybody is somebody who should be part that knows the and knows how to practice. But then anybody who within your organization, you really want them to have and to benefit from it. And you can even the people who are affected The customers? They are also part of and you can consider how your practice should be. So a few specific practical How do you bring people I like to hold office hours. I like to say I whether remotely or in person. In a particular room or remotely I'll be available from 10:00 to Anybody wants to ask a to customers, come see me. It's super low impact because unless somebody if it turns into a valuable lots of people are asking You can do the same thing Brown bag programs, especially Sometimes people don't One of the links that was a program for teaching using origami as a way. It's just a Twitter something I've done probably And people, when they are much more likely Now, the other thing you can do, is host research sessions where and eat their lunch while Newsletter-- this but if you're in one of and an older school I work a lot in are excited to newsletter on Friday saying And Aarron actually talked and to me this is one of the And you'd think, well, have any designs-- what would you put on the wall? I'll tell you a story when I was working and I was head of the desktop at the time. We had some number I don't know if I don't remember, different that the reps had to use And we were doing where you bring everything so of course, we needed Well, this was before and before optimal sort, by 5 notecards and had and then we had to This is something that but there weren't a so we decided to do it. Couldn't figure out so we stuck a bunch of and ruled out a great had several people coming in And I have never had so many saying hey, what's What are you guys up to? And I would tell them that we and they'd say, well, Well, how did you talking to the right people? And I told them about Well, what did you Can I see the card set? Before you knew it, we who understood the entire saw the mechanics ready to support the findings So the other thing is that can see it with their own eyes. And one of the things that I organizations is that people or they've chosen public because they want because they want to have in the world. And in organizations isn't much of a part to lose all contact and not be able to see wow, this difficult government get to talk to people who had a happened. That can really dragging and sad and People are way happier when they can see the So if you can find the and reconnect them by letting really what seeing research is. And the other thing is, when with you, as Meena the data doesn't If someone has seen five people you don't have to explain and how five people is actually kind of And it's true that it's not If someone has been you don't have that You have a better one. So you need to invite people, whoever's disconnected, you think might be influential-- probably won't because they'll get used to as long as they're useful. But you're kind of inviting colorful and qualitative industry where things it's inviting them You want to make really that they have strong going to happen if I go What are we going to do there? Am I going to be embarrassed? Is it going to be weird? You think about an invitation, What is it? Well, it's a kind of product. You know, if you're you want it to list out the invitation needs to tell to make a good decision want to come to the party. They need to know need to know what you're doing. You know, is it a picnic or is Obviously, when and where is it. Is there going to be Do I need to bring anything? All of that needs and you can express it in a Maybe a really formal maybe a flyer on a bulletin That's probably the most common but this has all the Hey, we're going to have do you want to come by? We're probably going Here's what we're going to have. We're going to bring Why don't you bring some? Perfectly well-formed can use whatever works But basically, you're You are saying, come that you have never seen before. And I use the Willy and people sometimes didn't go well for everyone [LAUGHTER] Here's the thing to some other inviters-- Nobody had a really if they followed all if they broke the rules and chute or something, everyone went home with a just like he promised. So you really want to design on research. You want to make has what they need to follow I sometimes make handouts. I sometimes do here's how to be If you want to here's the kind of tone of Here's how to make yourself And giving everyone is a really good idea. One of the best ways is to in taking notes. So you can say to your I would love it if you that a person stumbles Could you just take care That will engage somebody who's into the actual One of the things that when I worked at Bolt Peters practice there, I did-- I oversaw, I should say. There were lots and lots of but I oversaw more And across all of got to ask a question, in via instant message or or whether they a client who got to ask a would be a 100% supporter So if you can engineer that, Now, another way research have a bigger to the question. You might think in terms of technically-- do we want to do? Do we want to conduct some kind Interviews, diaries. I think I hit the OK. Interviews, shadowing, do how are we going to But sometimes, even more research methods, grounding it can create a clarity and connect that people are used to reading. So this is one of my favorite It's from 2008. It is from Bolt working with a company that for the 2009 auto show season. And they wanted to so smartphones were out, what do people really do with And they said, by to have an observing team Is that OK with you? Now, the answer if is always, of course it's And we managed to We did ride-along interviews, we managed observers We took hundreds of and we tagged the with things like &quot;one hand&quot; And we were justifiably proud that we put together, had a history of research. They knew a lot They knew where they were. Later on-- that's the General in Washington DC where my old I got asked and assigned what are the best practices Yikes. How do you even What does that mean. Well, we started to think I'm like, obviously we I don't know. [LAUGHTER] It was kind of an and it was really It had already been scoped to transfer the funds to So, well, we're going to really So we did that, and so if you get assigned says something like, practices in digital it is so fine to say, I can't tell you. What does &quot;best&quot; mean? What does &quot;digital What does &quot;practice&quot; mean? Had to unpack every until you get to a question a research method to answer. Now, what we came makes modern digital practices entity, beyond a single Because you may or but lots and lots excited about digital over the last 10 years or so. And a lot of them do and spin up a team, and a spin back down when the next or when some kind or after that project makes and everyone's really and it turns out it's money to build the real thing. So we decided to at what factors could rather than just what One of the first was go looking for this transformation happened because if you were alive everybody did not have And there were lots of how companies were trying into new digital age companies. Sure enough, we found I don't know if anyone remembers when Toys R Us finally had and taken online orders, and on Christmas day. And there were a lot out in the country, and It led to lawsuits. And we brought this back about digital transformation, this has happened before. HealthCare.gov is not the that ever happened in the And people learned and we should learn from them. This is a valid kind of research where your work is It's OK if you're not Of course, we did that in fact, a couple of the What the heck does digital we asked every single person. And we wanted to know, how Is that even a thing? We talked about about what might create being a pretty good set And then we did something else. We said, who else had an important role in whether And we tried to recruit-- after we stumbled the first couple to recruit three people of an organization at the same time for Offered a much more If you could get was at the individual level and a person who was at that I was just talking about, introduce you to one who maybe decided and who maybe had to decide and who maybe took That gave us a much And we'd heard of is a somewhat common you ask for introductions, So we decided to give it a name. We called it cluster recruiting. But this meant that that we were using did moderated interviews We did a literature review. We did a policy and which is a fun thing you I'm not joking-- it's actually and read the Paperwork and find out what We did this cluster recruiting, because it fit the study, consent and confidentiality If you are a CIO in a agency whose agency has cost $300 million, in order you need some really And so we worked on our We kept our transcripts where nobody else We disassociated the names of entirely. We changed the to make really sure that And this mixed being so much more valuable There's a really nice new by a researcher It's called Mixed Methods. I believe it's in your links. Well, the other thing Doing it wrong is a really If you cut the right you can be one of the in the company. Do you need a really large and a lab with a lot of to do good research? You do not. Please don't feel discouraged I will go out and do a with exactly what you see on a laptop, a notebook, my to take photos. And $20 to buy people if it's a general You can also do some really that you script for So you can set up something both a script and a can do the same things like labeling your So what we have here-- we have your top question, which So we're looking at about getting a is anybody a homeowner? You ever tried to get OK. So tell me why you're Is it your first or you've been here And we sort of realize that that three's a That's fine. Assumptions are great. Just write them down and Note that I had two assuming everybody would be That might not be the case, so And we're looking at-- we assume everybody thinks this bias your research. We probably have that there are complaints but you don't want to Now the thing about this is can effectively take notes for and that is really easy to sessions on which you use the After every single or whatever type write down a one-sentence So tallish African-American Great, you're good. White woman with two children Great, you're good. Just a simple thing. It's not to characterize it is just to give you a hook. Oh yeah, I talked I remember that person. It helps you remember Always write down the number It's very, very rare to where there isn't and that surprise is most important to learn And then just a quick summary of And if you go out and you maybe you have a big team and but you all make have an easy way to what you need from it. So the most important thing is can tell the story really well. So I said earlier that this project by understanding from research. I am not the first and I doubt if but I have heard her say it. So what do you need and what's the way that the story of the study? In the first place, when conferences, people spend a lot talking about how to how to do interviews, how to use all these methods. We talk a lot less about how and honestly, I think because really, the is getting the interpretation So when we speak of the stories are going to happen after they come out of the of the lab. You're going to tell And so everyone who is there-- all the people that able to get to come along-- all those people And it's really important as a facilitator Aarron talked a little bit about earlier. Facilitating a has a certain amount in common. We want to state our do for a design much more there as equals. We're not looking at we're sharing everything captured from our interactions out in the wild. Couple of really This is a fun law, if named George Miller He's a psychologist, to understand what you have to assume and try to imagine, would have to be true if was real. So if someone is saying, I've ever seen-- still your reaction if it think about what And probably your which is, well, seen a lot of things that are The one that you want to go with that they're having such Let's think about and what I can learn from that. You're good at this We all work in metaphors almost We all name our emotions. We all extract, on audio with someone, what And this is making it a than we usually do, which is which is why we have little somebody said something. OK, before we go and react and think about the world especially if they is one of the most valuable research session. Somebody says-- for example, on we had a lot of people talk And that's kind of an So if these really were gems, Well, we'd expect that people with them, like gems are exchange for other things or that you display to show off. And those motivations from this one metaphor a whole set of personas that Many other things went into this question. Another one. Raise your hand if you you act like a you know, why did Well, it looked like Well, why did you Well, I thought I was about Well, why would that be bad? Well, I don't want And so forth. I like a variation on So if people talk about five different ways, that one of the things is going to be an apt metaphor. It's going to be a really useful be able to hang a product or some one of those key So what I've added stereotypical repertoire me a little more about that?&quot; is just &quot;Can you say And I use this all in synthesis conversations, So if somebody says something they might be getting at that's back in their mind. Again, we're working things like oddity or values that our pre-linguistic And so we are working together into language so that into specs and into products in the world that we design. So asking your colleagues you say that another way?&quot; will get all of you forward that you'll be able to that next thing. Again, I don't think every but I was really glad when at a conference last year. You have to spend about as much as you did on executing All the surrounding work understanding who's interested, all of that-- when you get and telling it should get We try to make this a You remember about tracking-- that you write down Well, at the end of got email or Slack or something today, we talked to eight interesting thing that we saw-- and it's important that It's like the most from the numbers that here's what we saw and then here or maybe some that how we're going to And at the end of every study, we talked with this Remember that question we all This is the story of And here's what This can take all Show you an example of wall work Giant PDF reports-- I have had some of my even though it is a somewhat at this point. Edited video is one When working on if I see customers get I will make a reel of every and present that as part so that people can see the happening around a I've also had a huge win from the call center that screen as they were helping that the representative with the internal systems. Shipped that one to an EVP with of all the people in and we ended up with a package. So we can also through beautifully and all the design think about-- personas, sketches. We can communicate Sometimes I'll just whip up what if we tried All these ways to tell a story. I do want to shout out our designers in this world, which Service in the UK, and the If you ever have the opportunity it's a real privilege, is covered with research work. And it's colorful, very clear in a lot of cases. I'm not sure you can see but you can't walk without knowing what the about, say, what's it like to in the UK? What's it like to move from What's it like to be in your family All of those things are up on So the single best case is an illuminating story, just at least one story. So last fall, researching which is an inland California and sort of in an I met a youngish man And he was wearing work and he had taken was holding a bunch of papers So I hesitated a little bit and I asked him if he for a few minutes. And he said yes, and he kept And I asked him to tell It was about a child Pretty common thing-- happens And we started I was interested, because if he would have using his phone or a computer. Turns out he doesn't but he's really fast But he said, no, you know what? Technology doesn't scare me. But I'm shaking because going to mess up this this paperwork, I And it's terrifying. And then I know I we might be able and he said, honestly, I'd pay $50 or $60, I'd to tell me whether I'm Now, $100 is a chunk of of course. It's not a third to pay for an hour of a And he kept just shaking There was no particular help He was in the right place reviewing his forms. But this became the core that we delivered to leadership this is exactly an to their court to and this is what the And that, more than anything which was quite lengthy, started how do we actually the experience of a can't afford a and the state of California? So I've talked about and compelling stories, but you do have to fight. Of course you should be I talked about before, will work right away every time. This stuff is new and and it's still worth favor somewhat sneaky So why don't people It takes too long, Several speakers have mentioned design processes very well-- I hear this one all the time. Here's the thing-- you can study in three days Your first day, create the write your short little and pick up some incentives, Unless you are a really people don't expect Day 2, if you know go out there, intercept them, understand how they And the morning of day 3, with everyone who On the afternoon of day Three days is in some ways It sounds like a lot of time but it isn't that much time. I believe that most people can can beg or borrow from and steal it, and get that to get that compelling understand why it matters. What about when they won't This is another one So there are a lot of and I love to hold out And I told you earlier, I'm when you have to. So this is my chart of research participants, and going to You really shouldn't do even in an emergency, be able to make it work on your team if it's really and if you acknowledge what Target customers Real customers with recent Real users with current needs-- aces. And if you can get people that is the best A number of years ago, we were for a company that had a laptop and I remember the It was April 12, and in Because one of the people intercept was a tax had died on April 12. And watching her go through the new laptop that she needed was the most instructive seen about the interface So if you have the people who are in that If you can't openly this happens to a lot you have to think really can you do in the groups of employees who have close contact with Where do people go when they And one of the things people don't want their logo There are great cheap stickers and and you can make and get it shipped to So you can have a vacuum cleaner usability to reveal who you work for. And some researchers feel their personal social media I use my Twitter. I don't use my Facebook. Everybody makes but that is something consider as a patch. Now, what is the exact ROI of It's really hard to going to give you a But I will say that if you you can do some So what you do is you go for your six participants. You maybe spend $40 on clipboards, backup chargers, to make the study a success. And then you go get and you spend the rest and getting to the the team is comfortable. You can do a one-day study and I have never in a commercial company who authority with zero oversight. So it is a possible to get for almost to do a study if you have And the thing is, if people stop asking and start looking towards the If you came back with they actually probably for you to spend even if they wouldn't So anybody gotten Yeah. So here's the thing. What we talked about, the pieces-- research stands on its own when at that's statistics isn't. You can explain all these that people think are mysteries. Statistics can't do all that. The other thing to say is that much smaller samples so you definitely need if you're doing But if you have somewhere for behavioral find what you were looking for. And I can tell you that I have someone insisted on and by session number OK, OK, we got it. This is the same We understand. So something else I asked about what was it gets pushed And I hope it's clear, after today, that the intern does not to deliver these findings. And so it's great if you do this-- they will through their whole career. But they are not help the organization or who has the power to make deliver the findings. If research is about making and refining questions those are senior skills. So it's not fair to Forget the buts. You can always do So last few arguments to dispel. No one's interested, I know. It's not ever really true There is someone who has a close and wants to bring the stories There is a curious engineer. There are probably and they're going to be Put your questions Record a pain point to a bunch of executives. Make a little bit of good You can get through the no research plan. You can consider down to just buying instead of incentives. Sometimes, it's OK to patch the if you have a nice phone It's really nice, if you to try to get T-shirts things like that to look legit. It's OK. And finally, one that I put into the reading from a few years who is famous for the book And he is talking in this to improve midwifery in by sending licensed out into the country to help the And the initiative ran at the beginning. People didn't want to do the nurses were suggesting. But eventually they started to, from the rural hospitals end up changing your practice? And the best she could the city nurse was nice. She was nice. She smiled a lot. We talked about our kids. She wasn't judgmental. She didn't tell me I was wrong. And the thrust of is that basically the most practice is an army who can sit next to the people and show them the new practices And so that is really has been the official Research is something that needs and it's also something, if you that once it gets out there is out of an organization. You can't put research but you can make it count. And I think I have a few minutes for questions.