[Music] hi welcome back to guitar discoveries about what I learned from each of the Beatles. Paul, George, Ringo. but what about the Beatles' to producer, arranger and orchestrator George new Beatles LPs came out. and coincidentally. American Beatles releases started to include a remember seeing Produced by George Martin was on I didn't know, but seeing that credit made me and music production would become a direction hearing Beatles records back then thought about and how classical elements would magically show more than typical pop records. and looking has the synergy between a band and producer detractors out there. people who say The Beatles too experimental. and those folks seem to lament and blues spirit, you know their kind of punkiness layers of more sophisticated musical elements. more like the Rolling Stones. and I think that's The Beatles or the Stones is still asked way too Apples versus oranges. they're totally different. quickly and that George Martin helped them do so stay with me. I'm going to share the three most Martin. okay real quick, please take a moment to already. I have 5 years worth of music-related miss any of the new videos as they come out. a straight arrow, very proper, maybe even a little father Henry was a carpenter. his mother Bertha their apartment building. at age 8, George took teaching teaching himself. he actually taught piano piece at age 8. It didn't hurt that he also a while he strayed from music. he worked as a and he served in the Royal Navy for 4 years. but a Veteran's Grant to attend the Guildhall School his second instrument was oboe, and he studied he graduated, he worked for the BBC's classical EMI Records and managed their classical catalog, Society. 1955, Martin took over the small and actually managed to start racking up some hits some jazz, but most notably, comedy records Sellers and Dudley Moore. so George Martin was not was the first A &amp; R person in England to sign a he'd already had some hits including a UK number Seven. now what does producing comedy have to George says that he didn't sign the Beatles in hadn't at that point. &quot;they came down and they I thought they were great characters um I wasn't signed them up. I had a feeling they were going gave no sign at that time anyway of being such in England had already rejected the Beatles, I them if he wasn't already comfortable with Comedy Comedy. he'd already used used some experimental produced. so in Martin's own words, &quot;working with very useful because, as it wasn't music, you could slowed things down, and banged on piano lid.&quot; so Experiment and Have Fun. right from the start, the like double tracking a lead vocal. I remember Beatles they described George Harrison's vocals on and even feel that spirit of experimentation a cool example is recording on tape at half-speed you do that with vocals, you get a high-pitched as obvious. half-speed recording allowed for some is the sped-up piano solo on In My Life. here's of the tape down to half what it is so you hear the piano, exactly the notes I wanted, quite [Music] invention.&quot; so when the piano solo is impressive and John loved it. so Martin used that technique the honky-tonk piano solo on Rocky [Music] of Martin playing on Beatles songs, David Beatles Songs that George Martin Played On. likely that Martin's comedy experience made certainly than most of the white lab-coated let's face it, the Beatles wrote a lot of moments even on serious songs, and there novelty songs or even straight-up comedy. Yellow Submarine on Revolver became such a big [Music] [Music] sounds. that's a comedy tongue-and-cheek songs like Lovely Rita and Good Morning Good Morning. All Together know you got it that's it you got it don't but I think the Beatles' comedy peaked during Birthday Bungalow Bill, Piggies, Wild Honey Pie, Rocky Raccoon, and you know Album is wacky and wild. now probably their (Look up the Number) which was the B-side of up. they even kept up the comedy right to &quot;the Maxwell's Silver Hammer, Mean Mr Mustard, that George Martin wasn't a controlling stuffed and I think he celebrated, not squelched, all the Orchestral Instruments are Cool. so as I and came to understand how Martin contributed I realized that he produced every song, even the perspective.&quot; so with an orchestra, you're working you got Strings, Woodwinds, Brass and Percussion timbre -- a sonic character to it. you got Strings, Woodwinds, which are pastoral and organic. Brass, you know which is rhythmic and propulsive. now Beatles? well it's really about how sounds on listen to any early Beatles song, it's notable think George Martin and the recording engineers in such a way that the full frequency range is and it's full for that time. the guitars have in the way of the vocals. and Ringo's drums are in the way either. and that was no mean feat, down to a single mono master. now George Martin and he encouraged them to add instrumental hooks song. so nearly every Beatles song has either or it launches directly into a verse or chorus. I songs in the first few beats or notes of an intro. examples: it won't be long [Applause] yeah [Music] help I need [Music] somebody he's a real nowhere man people Penny Lane there is [Music] photographs [Music] there's an economy to every arrangement that so in 1965, George Martin started introducing and he used them in ways that had never been done really the Beatles at all. it's Paul, solo, with so some of my earliest conscious memories of and I always thought, wow, those instruments sound with the Beatles is the key reason I started orchestra and orchestral instruments cool, arrangements that orchestral instruments could really think about Eleanor Rigby right? it's just Paul and a double string quartet, with choruses I mean that was a radical approach to a those stabbing strings were inspired by Bernard more rock and roll than that? now my personal is I Am The Walrus. the orchestra introduces and if you listen to it alone, it's a masterpiece I can do to resist playing the whole thing [Laughter] [Music] chunk [Music] so if you just go to guitardiscoveries.com. if you'll get free access to the complete okay George Martin Lesson Number Three: Explore an orchestral arrangement traditionally, a Nelson Riddle or a Gordon Jenkins. check out but for a guy with a straight-arrow reputation, the unexpected. you already heard some of I Am The for his piano solos, but one of his most creative Forever. I did a complete song blow up about this, and engineer Geoff Emerick rose to an impossible after 26 takes, some complete, some sections, tells George Martin that he likes the beginning specifically take 7, but that he likes the end the orchestra, so he wants to combine takes news that take 26, with the orchestra, is at a and Lennon just looks at him and says, &quot;you he did fix it. George Martin and EMI engineer both with vari-speed, and they matched the two so George Martin was a classically trained Beatles, he consistently thought outside the he knew how to break them. he had a knack like Strawberry Fields, which uses three [Music] thunk [Music] sometimes he has a really light touch, old-time arrangement. it's played clarinet. then listen to how he channeled East strings. this is on George Harrison's Sgt Pepper are you ever going to hear eight violins and three ruba. now we all know the massive in the Life &quot;and we knew we had to fill and we didn't know what it was going to be yet&quot; it to create &quot;a tremendous buildup from nothing world,&quot; and then George Martin had to figure for a bunch of classical musicians who were only how Martin explained it in his 1994 memoir All lowest possible note for each of the instruments I wrote the highest note near a chord of through the 24 bars with reference points have reached during each bar. of course, they [Music] [Applause] mad. but it worked. All You that opens with the French national anthem La quotes from Greensleeves, Glenn Miller's wrote the whole arrangement so it diverges [Music] plays. finally Martin's the whole cake of Abbey Road. gorgeous strings on Something... lilting Strings and Woodwinds Sun and Strings and Brass on the side two medley, [Applause] [Music] Weight. all right, by now it should the fifth Beatle, and he had an impact on their the band. there you go, the three most important experiment and have fun. number two, orchestral Uncharted Territory. we can all learn from those us all and creating the magical musical worlds you your son Giles Martin, you know he's done such tapes and remixing all the Beatles' classics so Soleil Love soundtrack, and and all the original all right, don't forget to like, subscribe and visit guitardiscoveries.com. you're going music of my band Cosmic Spin, and you can watch this