Hey hey people, Sseth here. After a long and healthy life, my *T H U D* So I had to put it down. And I got a condenser mic. I have no idea what I'm doing. Thank you for your patience and understanding. Today, I'll be covering *alarm* *giant metal door opening* *Slavic mating call* Actually, I lied. Ill be reviewing all the And the novel this universe is based on Strugatsky's Roadside Picnic(tm) S.T.A.L.K.E.R.'s premise Is very simple. You play as a delinquent Gopnik who's just broken into a fenced off Which is actually based on a If the legends are true, the produces most of the bootleg cigarettes and prostitutes we find in Europe today But, everyone knows this is just a fairy tale. However, in this world, there nor any subsequent cover-up by the infallible benevolent Soviet Union Instead of a nuclear fallout, we have an expanding circle of land Filled with all manner of strange anomalies Why did you come here? No one knows. Thousands of men, serving hundreds What makes your ideology any different? Some claim they want to contain it. Others study or even protect In truth, there is no single rational answer. We have no reason to be here, but we are drawn to it, fascinated by it, and afraid of it. But no matter what, we Welcome to the Zone. The Zone, while physical in the games, The Zone represents our anxious our hopes and dreams, and ultimately our darkest desires. Rumors of the Zone spread throughout our planet. Talk of mutants, weird events and bizarre artifacts begin to haunt everyone's imagination. AND, of course, the promise of S.T.A.L.K.E.R. Is like the discovery of a new world. Everyone wants to go out into the great And maybe even leave behind several which now lack a father. This is Sseth, reminding you that even if your son is a malformed, hideous Take responsibility and kill him yourself. As for the gameplay itself, It's a sandbox survival shooter, Most of the guns feel really good. When you're not shooting, you'll be avoiding anomalies and trying that justify the health risk. The Zone has its own black market economy research groups, and private collectors. Sadly, you're at the bottom You're like a cocaine farmer in Colombia. Your life is short, miserable, and underpaid. And you're easily replaceable. The average artifact typically goes for barely enough to restock your ammunition Canned tuna, Kielbasa, And stale bread. And, of course, Monster Energy Zero Ultra. The USSR drink of choice. For added immersion, I recommend Luckily, my house has all the aforementioned dishes. My bread is just a little bit For even more immersion, you can try going outside. Who knows what sort of Oh look, a &quot;Gravi&quot;. And here's a &quot;Stone Blood&quot;. And here's a used hypodermic needle. These only appear in the extremely rare junky crackden anomaly. How curious. For Westerners, S.T.A.L.K.E.R. is a game where there's no one to help or rescue you, human contact is limited, and you're left isolated from the outside world. For Slavs, S.T.A.L.K.E.R. is a simulation of where there's no one to help or rescue you, human contact is limited, and you're left isolated from the outside world. How accurate you want the simulation Ah yes, The four genders. Rookie, Stalker, Veteran, and Master. Lowering the difficulty results as they develop genetic adaptations For this reason, it's completely fine But if you find that firefights take too It's a strange way to do difficulty, but it makes sense once you get If you're interested in playing all Shadow of Chernobyl, Call of Pripyat, and then Clear Skies. If you only have time for one of them, play Pripyat. If you want even more, install It links every game map and Including Bandits. It also removes almost all which is far more fitting to the atmosphere, as there's many words to and bilingual is not one of them. Despite how hostile the Zone Sitting around the campfire with other and tell jokes in Russian is a very And gives you temporary relief you'll feel everywhere else. Admittedly though, Bandit camps Unsurprisingly, this game is The Mutants in the Zone grunt, squeal, And they have a habit of doing Luckily, some of the most dangerous [In a perfect world...] [Men like me would not exist.] [But this is not a perfect world.] But surviving an encounter with one of them Call of Pripyat is the most developed of the three titles. Hunting for artifacts becomes and throwing screws at vibrating pockets of air. You now have different devices invisible to the human eye. Which now also appear inside and around One wrong move and you'll be torn apart, shocked, or incinerated. Luckily, some of the anomalies are much In Call of Pripyat, they also added emissions. Emissions exist to make you shit your These are incredibly violent energy storms originating from the Chernobyl national power plant. And if you receive a warning you better get the fuck inside unless Anything and anyone who can't get And that's if you're lucky. For those who weren't so lucky, they'll get back up and continue their The anomalies described in Accidentally rub against a You'll die from a heart attack, Hours later. Were you near the Zone when the visitors came? You're forbidden from ever leaving. And you'll be shot on sight if you dare try, because whatever city you'll go to will be The games and the book since in Strugatsky's Roadside Picnic(tm) the title of the book says it all. visitors stopped by our world and leaving behind their trash and waste, the remains of a messy picnic. But their trash is our treasure. Everything in the Zone is fantastical Room temperature superconductors, invasive species of cotton which and infinite batteries which asexually reproduce, are just some of the who are so impossibly that we couldn't even catch In S.T.A.L.K.E.R., the through some psychic Which I honestly suspect is through the worst linear because Ivan spent a lot of and by God you're gonna appreciate it. To summarize briefly, a bunch of to form the &quot;C-Consciousness&quot; a superiour consciousness capable an informational field surrounding earth. In order to remove negative emotions like anger, greed, and being a foot fetishist, Their interference spawned the Zone, To make matters worse, their efforts backfired. Foot fetishes was instead replaced by scat. And that extremely specific category of porn where the camera keeps Realizing what evil they've unleashed on the world, the scientists are now actively In Shadow of Chernobyl, In Clear Skies, you get brainwashed by them. In Call of Pripyat you meet Strelok from the first game. And he tells you that, canonically, he kind of killed the scientists and there's nothing to contain the Zone anymore, everyone realizes it's time The ending section of each S.T.A.L.K.E.R. Holy shit! Let me go through narrow corridors where everyone is armed with with futuristic hitscan energy weapons Hey, you can also keep replaying on repeat every few second. What an amazing, unforgettable experience which I wish I had never had. Once you reach the Chernobyl National Power Plant, do yourself a favor and format your hard drive. Because that's going to be a much more fun experience than anything still in store for you. And while the rest of the there is one exception. Clear Skies. Most people abandon Clear the worst introduction to any game ever made. You start the game and get dumped in a shitty swamp, equipped with guns that can shoot for 3 meters, before the bullets enter another At a some point, you'll have You might be tempted to fight the two or three billion bandits that procreate in the warehouses. You might even be tempted to Both of those will result in your death. Taking the indicated exit will put where a machine gun will shred you to pieces. No, the correct thing to do is to ignore the swamp, enter the cordon, see the machine gun, Fuck off back to the swamp, and take the new exit, which is safely north from the original one. If you have the 200+ IQ necessary Clear Skies is probably the hardest of the three. The game does not give a but holy fuck, it has some of the I've ever experienced in a singleplayer shooter. Of course, in terms of atmosphere, It's never too much, It's just the right dose of Soviet-era depression bleeding into your senses. Just keep in mind that the base game took a billion patches to actually run stabley half the time. Smacking mods on top of &quot;XR Engine&quot; is an engine that may Its internals workings are the even to the Ukrainian computer using Microsoft Paint on Windows Bandera. The engine is sensitive, fragile, and fickle. And if it really completely stops working, I recommend that you rollback your NVIDIA drivers, which somehow magically fixes everything. I understand that this is the most poorly structured and ill-advised review I've ever made, but I throughly recommend every S.T.A.L.K.E.R game. And I especially recommend You can buy a copy of each And the English translation of the book is The games defy explanation, and is not something you can recreate by video alone. It's a lot of fun and well worth And if you've already experienced it... Well, there are still more mods out there than you can play in a single, natural lifespan. As always, more content to come, so stay tuned. That content will be better structured. A Warm thank you to the many generously funding and bankrolling these videos. You're all wonderful. Have a good one! [Iatinsotests - Dyr bubul' (Yyn daga dyr bubul)]