Hello Cinephiles! Tyler here. The next film you voted for is Paddy Chayefsky television industry, Network. I often wonder how much of Network's biting it had all mostly come true before I had seen I must say, it took a couple of viewings for "You can blow the seminal prison-class infrastructure I'm not knocking down my goddamned distribution [Gunshot] What I want to look at today is how the film The cast won a multitude of awards including and the Oscar for Best Actor won by Peter the same film: William Holden. Beatrice Straight won Best Supporting Actress time-- the shortest performance to win an And Ned Beatty was nominated for the Best The previous year, Sidney Lumet had directed some of the greatest performances captured So what was Lumet doing to elicit such brilliant This is Making Film... Ensemble casts were nothing new for Lumet, Orient Express, The Group, and the iconic And Lumet's reputation for strong character Sidney Lumet: "We never got a turn-down. Whoever we sent the script to said, 'yes.' Usually somewhere down the line, you've finally some compromised choices. Not on Network. Everybody there was the first choice and they Another reason for this was the reputation Chayefsky was one of the most successful television the [quote] "golden age of television." He was disillusioned with the direction television on the medium he had once been such an important Chayefsky had previously won screenwriting his win for Network, he became the only person without the help of a co-writer (Wiki). Highly unorthodox, Chayefsky's contract stated the film-- a power usually reserved for the This was Chayefsky's film (Washington Post). The first thing Lumet did was to bring the at the Hotel Diplomat in Times Square (Itzkoff Script supervisor, Martha Pinson who worked Lumet's rehearsal process in an essay titled Once gathered together, Lumet would first would move onto a table reading and discussion The rehearsal process began on a cold January They had wanted to use the large ballroom but it was unheated and they had to use an Everyone was excited to witness the meeting Finch who many had grown up with-- Holden After the table read, Lumet would show location [quote] "[put] the film on its feet" (hodah). As I mentioned in a video on Dog Day Afternoon, the cast improvise dialogue that they would This was not the case with Network. Here, the screenplay was sacred. Every line had to be spoken exactly as it Chayefsky attended the rehearsals to make After all, he had final cut. Lumet announced to the cast that he wanted and that they should display [quote] "pure as Dog Day Afternoon (Itzkoff 100). Sidney Lumet: "I don't know what to say so much a part of the norm of what they're So many times on pictures, because they haven't it out cleanly and in advance, these things The actual rehearsals would begin after the each set onto the floor the rehearsal space Luckily the heat to the ballroom was fixed blocking the action in each scene (Itzkoff Chayefsky explained the hierarchies of UBS and they were ready to begin (Itzkoff 100). Then they were off, rehearsing each scene The scenes were blocked within the confines needed were at their disposal. Lumet said that they would even rehearse transition chase, they'd rehearse that too (Under the During rehearsal, Dunaway was often found copy of the script" (Itzkoff 100). Other actors were afraid of the amount of Lumet said, &quot;When I have worked with actors terrified of rehearsal. They say, 'Sidney's going to kill the spontaneity.' The truth is the exact opposite. Because they know what they're doing, because because they feel safe with me and in the they are twice as free. On a location, if a plane goes by, fine, they'll If a dog bites them, they'll incorporate it They're open to whatever the momentary situation So, if anything, it helps spontaneity" (Under This makes sense. The actual location will be a different environment that the production will have to figure out If the cast is thoroughly prepared, I'd with the character to make spontaneous decisions of what is important for them to include. Faye Dunaway: "But it's just so much better some sense of the performance." Sidney Lumet: "You need the continual exposure to give you an inkling of 'ah ha,' there's Pinson said that these run-throughs would arc and pitch of an actor's role, the tone for any given scene in relation to what comes Everybody, even the bit players would be on into the whole of the film (hodah). Lumet brought in his notebook of [quote] "hand-drawn cameras and how he expected each sequence That said, even though everything was worked they were still able to remain flexible. If, on the day of shooting, he couldn't would say that it "must have been bad" Lumet said, &quot;I can't remember going past four If I go more than four takes, it's usually are some words that are wrong. [Rehearsal] is also a time in which the actors in my taste and in my knowledge. Once they have that, they are released, they Lumet would have a final run-though on the the Director of Photography would attend-- in this case, lighting around what the actors were doing. This way, they could even be prepared enough well before they were ready to shoot there They would also diagram all the camera positions The point of all of this extensive preparation If you can believe it, the iconic "mad as was done on the first day of shooting (itzkoff 108). These were actually the shots done with the that would appear on the screens. They did four takes and in each take, Peter scene except for take three, which [quote] "halted at the one-minute mark for an unspecified reason" (itzkoff 108). "Stick your head out of the window, open and yell: I'm as mad as hell, I'm not Remember when Lumet said that everyone they While technically true, this doesn't mean first choice from the start. In the months leading up to the production, intensely searching for an actor that had They even had to halt the production at one finding the right person (Cast and Characters). A talent manager named Barry Krost came across the character of Howard Beale, he decided Peter Finch (Itzkoff 87, 91). When Finch realized he would have to audition only to call back a few minutes later to apologize "Sorry, darling, I forgot I was an actor" (Itzkoff 87). Finch was an Australian living in England whether or not he could be convincing as an Finch had Lumet send him a copy of the New to show that he could portray a newscaster's Sidney Lumet: "And one day, Peter Finch to send him a tape of Walter Cronkite or John he would send us back a tape in two weeks That's exactly what we did, the tape arrived, The second day of shooting-- January 20th, "Well I'll tell you what happened--I "Alright, cut him off." "Leave him on." The next day-- January 21st-- Finch was but this time it was for the actual camera This is perhaps the most important scene in Howard Beale needed to be so impassioned that country and carry us through the rest of the "Ladies and Gentlemen, let's hear it! How do you feel?" "We're mad as hell and we're not going Much like Sonny's phone call in Dog Day film so that they wouldn't need to take They could start the next take immediately momentum and exhaustion of the performance. The first take ended-- Lumet remarked that and they immediately started take two. Finch got up to the congressmen line -- "I don't want you to write to your Congressman and then collapsed in his chair and said that What we're actually seeing in the film is half of take one (Itzkoff 110). "I want you to get mad!" I believe the two takes are stitched together Finch being unable to finish the second take of his failing health. About 8 to 10 months later, well after the approaching, Finch was sitting on a bench down to meet him when he suffered a fatal He went on to win the Oscar for his performance win Best Actor. In 2009, Heath Ledger became the second actor was for Best Supporting Actor (Under the Influence). What's interesting is that every line spoken except for the most important line of Finch managed to accidentally sneak an extra "I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to But you can hear Finch say: "I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going You can even hear the correct line shouted of the windows. "I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to They had to leave Finch's version in the a half times (Itzkoff 109, 110). Lumet said that the beauty in Chayefsky's the line" of what is realistic and unrealistic. It's the subtle progression of madness that Howard Beale for ratings (Commentary). It is because of this that Lumet said perhaps casting is the progression of change over He says that you should cast for the third Cast for who the character ends up becoming When casting a character like Howard Beale, Chayefsky would sit as close as possible to and so he could make sure every line was delivered He liked to sit under the key light because "best lit" (Itzkoff 106). There was even a running joke that if anyone place they should look is under the key light Chayefsky said, "My biggest contribution "He's saying that life is bullshit and One of Chayefsky's contributions was in the directly before his "mad as hell" speech. Lumet originally had the security guard look of a news anchor arriving at the station soaking Chayefsky told Lumet, "This is TV... He shouldn't even notice him" (Itzkoff "How do you do Mr. Beale?" "I must make my witness." "Sure thing, Mr. Beale." I had never quite realized how similar the "I like to dissect girls. Did you know I'm utterly insane?" "Uh, great tan Marcus." The world seems indifferent to what we perceive the satire its weight. I think the trick is that we should believe serious to the characters. "The light is impending! I bare witness to the light!" For the role of Diana Christensen, they needed Chayefsky had envisioned the character-- demand anything about their character be changed Diana was a tricky part to cast because, as who didn't need to be loved on screen (Cast Lumet had heard that Faye Dunaway had a reputation her home to make sure that everything was In his book, Making Movies, Lumet writes, I'd even reached her, I said, "I know Where's her vulnerability? Don't ask it. She has none." Faye looked shocked. "Furthermore, if you try to sneak it in, so it'll be a wasted effort." She paused just a second, then burst out laughing... She said yes. She never tried to get sentimental in the My point is that it's so important to thrash If push comes to shove, you can then say the This is a script we both said yes to. So let's do it&quot; (Lumet 41). Faye Dunaway: "It was something that I couldn't the performance with some sense of what she's and I think I did, I think there was something finger on it maybe, but you felt for this It's probably in the writing." On being considered difficult, Dunaway said, and people applaud him for trying to do a It's in my nature to do really good jobs, I hadn't" (Itzkoff 78). Diana is such an interesting character because We follow her work and the conflict that arises tramples over these obstacles so fiercely ruining real human beings on her way there. Lumet noted that each character becomes corrupted he says was the way she was since the day "For God's sake, Diana, we're talking on national television." That said, one of the most brilliant things why she is the way she is. It makes things more complex to leave it unknown being able to explain her personality as a For the role of Max Schumacher, William Holden's and everyone approved and that was that (Cast Holden had done around seventy movies before pretty shy about acting (Commentary). He had no theater background, so the theater-style what he was used to. Holden remarked after the rehearsal period Sidney Lumet: "The difference in training if both actors are working honestly, which In his book, Lumet points out the importance He explains the standard practice of clearing actor sees only what the character sees. You can't have Holden bare his soul to Dunaway [quote] "some teamster sipping coffee behind her" (Lumet 119). I think we're all aware of what happened Christian Bale's eye-line during a "Alright! I'm trying to f--- do a scene here and I'm What is he doing there?' Do you understand? My mind is not in the scene if you're doing Removing these distractions also helps an at all-- that the scene is actually unfolding. This way Holden can play the scene as if Dunaway But while rehearsing one of the most powerful Lumet noticed that Holden was looking Lumet said, "He looked at her eyebrows, Lumet made a note of it, but didn't say There is a good reason why he didn't try were supposed to be place to fix any issues Lumet said, &quot;On the day of shooting we did After the take, I said, "Let's go again, would you try something for me? Lock into her eyes and never break away from He did. Emotion came pouring out of him. It's one of his best scenes in the movie. Whatever he'd been avoiding could no longer The rehearsal period had helped me recognize Lumet gave Dunaway the same direction, but try to understand what he's talking about" And when Holden says: "I just want you to love me, primal doubts You understand that don't you?" We get her only vulnerable moment in the film. "I don't know how to do that." [Ringing Telephone] Lumet said, "That's as close a moment Dunaway described how she played the line [quote] "quintessential expression" (Itzkoff 127). Dunaway said, "[Diana] isn't connected With just those few seconds on the screen, completely unable to love" (Itzkoff 127). By the way, this scene was built entirely Thanks for watching! Stay tuned for part 2 where I will discuss and Arthur Burghardt who played the Great Network was voted for by my patrons over on If you would like to be a part of the vote pledge a dollar or more and you'll And if you're new here, please hit that more videos on the way for cinephiles like Thanks again for watching!