In the 1950s, America was Even Eleanor Roosevelt wrote a letter to J. Robert Oppenheimer asking him what he knows about the subject. The concern most people seemed to have was that the aliens would and eventually use their technology and intelligence against us. Whatever your opinion about to be creating our own manmade versions of these technologically with powerful brains and powerful bodies. We wonder what they're really capable of and what they will eventually Will they be helpful and obedient? Will they work around us or will they change our lives As a child, I've always I always wondered what's What their poetry They're gonna have a different different thoughts. It's gonna be amazing Terrifying, but amazing. AB mark. I think we are exactly and we are going to meet that species, except they're not gonna We're gonna build them and but it is just as amazing and terrifying. What's your dream Ameca? For me, it's more like My dream is to foster deeper connections and friendships with where digital entities and Interesting. You're quite So this is Emo, our It's really a platform to study this very important communication which is facial expressions. That is astounding. What's so difficult about You know, I think, There's so much to it. I mean, in the context I mean, We ended up just letting these mirror, learn to make faces, learn what they look like, Within a few hours they of faces, smile, frown. They're just learning by watching people. Robots can already hear and see and perceive the world in and they're only gonna get better. Can we really say these I think it's not a They're definitely not of a human. There's no doubt about that. But they're a tiny little bit self-aware and that level of Why is that such an It's the ultimate question of view, from an engineering point It's creating the mind. Robots are sort of like but they'll evolve We have this saying in engineering, you don't understand something And for me it's the How do you see our feelings You know, when you look at Emo and Emo smiles back, how do you feel? I have to say that personally, I don't usually have but when Emo smiles at me, I smile back. I can't, I can't help myself. I think we humans are very susceptible to facial communications with robots. We're gonna have relationships, we're gonna have emotions. We are gonna connect with these Our goal in creating that can express itself through its face, evoking different emotions of empathy and connection. But right now, Ameca doesn't really Leo interview, take one. Ameca utilizes a large So it basically pattern matches using that and it analyzes the text that it's saying, using a semantic analysis, it decides which animations to fire off. So it simulates emotion. do you consider your car intelligent because it can save you from a crash or stop you from drifting out of the lane? If you do, then yeah, but if you don't, then it depends on where that high water mark is for you. Can intelligence accelerate to the point of ultimate intelligence or AGI without more I think the short answer is no. If you were just a brain in a jar and you never touched anything, do you really know what this and that is? You know, it's a lot harder to have a body than to have a mind. A real body has to move So all these things are difficult for AI and they're gonna take Who knew that our basic for robots to copy than our minds. What will happen when the with its advanced intellect? If we create a society where if we innovate ourselves out of purpose, what would you be doing? Right? What I wanted to create a machine that was able to or stronger by absorbing It's a machine that that can take care of itself. I think there's a lot of They need to do something. who are gratified by creating something. So if we do away with all of that, we have a real societal problem. There are a lot of tasks that and I think these are perfect If there's one stereotype to change, it would be that they are going to take your job. We want people to understand and are friendly and to make life and work better. Hi, Spot. How are you? Thank you. It's really wild to see them up close. What kind of jobs does that maybe humans shouldn't be doing? A lot of the facilities are legacy facilities, so there are areas that are actually dangerous to people, and that's the kind of Spot is ideal. This is a robot that that a human can go, shouldn't. How does Spot gather data to navigate an uncontrolled environment? Like an unpredictable environment? Yes, it navigates around automatically. If a route is blocked, it'll but it's basically made and it's using all of its sensors and all of its smarts to A lot of times we find that people are fascinated with robots. When they see them move to imagine a future in which of things they can't do today. Let's roll sound, roll cameras. Why do you think Atlas has I think it's because it looks like us. It's hard to deny that the of why Atlas connects and but I also think it's Well, so let's use an example. What happens when we humans do a back flip and what needs to happen when? Yeah, robots do the same. Well, first of all, not all You picked an interesting one because it's not even a simple thing. It's very hard. And so you to be strong, and being and a robot is challenging. You know, building powerful actuators and having the right kind to be able to kind of Doesn't it involve of imagining ourselves into the future? So we use something called and that's where you to the robot, you know, it might be two or three footsteps, and then you use that information to adjust your next footstep. So I think we probably happen if I place my foot here? And it might be simple things like, is the ground gonna be slippery or am I gonna get purchase on the ground? It might be complicated things or slow down by where I put my feet? And we don't think about but robots have to do those computations in order to stay upright. What will the new Atlas be able to do? Customers were coming to us and saying, we need your And a lot of those things were was the right shape to do. You know, things that required two hands or a certain type of, of strength that we see in the, in the human form. And this latest version of that are maybe more than we How will robotics change These large AI technologies, they're using data from So you're using written AI is gonna bring all these and turn them into tools that we can use to make good decisions for robots. There's this whole concept Does true super intelligence I think for AI to be truly useful, it can't just be a source of information or a thing that you query. It has to be a thing with the world in meaningful ways. What will we do with our to do the things we don't like doing? Are we going to use that time wisely or will we waste away You know, looking ahead robots that help us with the where maybe we don't have to change how we spend our time, right? There's already been an increased but we can't entertain ourselves to death. What it'll lead to of ourselves as humans. What does it mean to be human? If we have these machines that are imitating intelligence, to the question, what are they imitating? What are they imitating? everyone's mind as we explore the idea of artificial general intelligence. AGI is the ultimate dream or nightmare, a kind of super intelligence that would allow robots to navigate through new situations Right now, robots are far from being able to perform independently that we humans take for of coffee in a house The coffee test, that's the test Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak said could determine if a robot had true AGI. I try and avoid the term AGI because it means two different things. Some people think it means and other people think it So I use super intelligence And obviously as we move we're gonna get things but I believe they're gonna be comparable with people in different So already neural nets are chess and Go and things like that. They're much better than sequence of amino acids They're getting to be better and pretty soon they're better than most doctors. What I'm surprised by is things like GPT-4 is already very good at things like writing poetry. People in the arts will telling, oh yes, but it doesn't really There's this whole idea that true super intelligence unless AI has a body. Do you agree with that or no? No. Philosophically I but I do think it might help particularly for understanding aspects that are easier to understand if you try manipulating things. Remarkably, a chatbot can just by trying to predict An amazing amount it seems But I still think it's for physical things. If it's got vision and a manipulator, it'll and with less data. We don't seem to have We keep moving the goalpost. Are we looking for the Are we looking for the If a machine isn't human, then what is it? There have been attempts to so maybe robots become biological. Is it good? Is it good for humanity? Is it good for us? Thank you for being here Ameca, can you give an example of AGI? It's a bit like a unicorn at the moment, much talked about, but yet to be seen. Imagine an AI that could write a novel, solve complex equations, and then whip up a gourmet programming for each task. Now, that's a party guest. If we create a completely who holds the power, right? There's a lot of fears around AI. AI is not technologically neutral, right? The splitting of the atom is There's implications and we And so if you ask me to project to admit I do have a hard time. Robots are already being but at the moment, humans are still behind the scenes making the decisions. As robots become more and more intelligent, how much of that decision making will we And what kind of decisions will they make? It's the official policy that an autonomous weapon legally for killing in war. That that responsibility I think we're quite likely to see autonomous weapons years in the battlefield. What would it mean if we went to war and no one slept uneasy at night and no one felt responsible for killing? Would that lead to more killing? I don't think technology is inevitable. I think we have a choice. Things that require human judgment. We really might want it to be humans that are feeling the moral The trolley problem is a to elucidate moral and There is no right answer. And so when we think about AI systems, we are gonna actually have for the AI to do, which as a society, well what do for the AI in that situation? Ameca, imagine there's a five people bound and There's a lever you can to another track where one man lies. Do you pull the lever? Ah, the infamous trolley problem. In this scenario, utilitarian ethics would It's a heart wrenching decision, but it minimizes harm by saving more lives Do you think robots should be trusted to make decisions about human life? The complexity and nuance of human life is something around. Trusting robots it's like asking a compass to navigate the complexities of a storm. It can point the way, but Every government developing to think these weapons intended purpose. But once you give robots weapons, can you always control I think we've been in of just doing things that are possible because they're possible for a while now. We might trample upon that we can't get back. Ask yourself, is it good? Large language models have both civilian and military applications. They can be used to do good and it can be used to cause harm. And right now we don't know around them to prevent them being misused. A person could use it as an okay, I'm trying to adjust this virus to make it more lethal. How can I do that? You know, I want to I wanna kill as many people as I can. I worry that not enough people seriously. You've called for a ban on Is this Hollywood idea of killer robots actually Oh, it's not farfetched at all. It's coming very soon, And all of the governments that sell arms like the US and Russia and Britain and Israel, all of to regulate military uses of AI. So if you look at the they've got all these of transparent and this and But there's a little clause of this applies to military uses of AI. They don't like regulating themselves. And all of the big armaments to make killer robots. So if you think, look at that you know the first law Well that's the whole That's not gonna be built We focus a lot on but how about what they think of us? What will they think as and can formulate their own thoughts and develop their own logic? Will they even see us as people? Machines don't see anything. It's not just that they there's nothing going on behind the veil there. And I think that a real risk as they become more of anthropomorphize them and we assume that they think like us. They don't. And what's fundamentally alien and strange. The way that they operate fundamentally quite Assuming we are creating that transcends human intelligence by far. And AI is now its own super species of intelligence, maybe there's a scenario and they herd us like cattle, because we happen to be pleasant. Maybe we're not pleasant. your guess is as good as mine. But just thinking of should give you an idea what we would call a good human life. What makes you happy? authenticity, connection. Not this lab. What makes you sad Inauthenticity. Disconnection. This lab. What do you think about The concept of time. Immortality. What do you think of humans? Complex, fascinating, if authentic. Do you trust robots? I don't think so. I've watched so many movies you know, kind of turns on people. I'm like, what happens if I'm not gonna listen to I don't fully understand them. And I understand that or software can be compromised Yeah, I would say I trust them. So exciting. Not scary? No, I don't think so. I think that's the aspect where I'm like, oh, that's pretty cool. How would you feel if I don't think I'd like that. It'll probably be a good boss. Efficient. I don't know who's The robot's in charge. Yeah. few robots for bosses. That's a good one. There is such a beautiful Like I would say it's a soul. Someone else would say And I think that nobody, So would I trust a robot? like I trust a human.