(engine roaring) (speaking foreign language) - Whether you're driving through a bog, or over a log, or up in the mud like a hog, for your long lost dog. (engine roaring) (truck honking) Whether you need a place there's one vehicle for you. I'm talking about the Mercedes look like a wee wagon. This is everything you need to know to get up to speed on the Unimog, which is I think German (arcade music) I want to give a big thanks to Keeps for sponsoring this Keeps offers scientifically both over the counter and prescription, that can help fight the I think we'd love to know, James, what is the number one I'm glad you asked, the number one symptom of hair loss is losing your hair. Keeps treatments are up to 90% effective at reducing and stopping It has more five star reviews and nearly 100,000 men trust it for their hair loss prevention medication. If you're ready to take go to keeps.com/uptospeed50 to receive 50% off your first order. That's keeps.com/uptospeed50. Support the bread that supports Donut. Keeps.com/upstospeed50 Receive 50% off your first order. Now despite a formidable the Unimog has been around It was, and still is, one of and the first one was built rather than an Audi manufacturer. In 1945, Germany was World War losses. They were looking to rebrand themselves as more of an agricultural type of place and less of a imperial I wonder why? So farmers set to work and yoking their oxen. This did not go unnoticed aircraft engineer by the Apparently old Al didn't and thought there ox to be a better way. (crickets chirping) Albert decided to partner up with a couple of his engineering homies, Hans to develop the ultimate tractor. And during a very German they came up with the Unlike other tractors ours should have four equally large wheels Yeah and the all wheel drives. Will you pass the sauerkraut. (chewing) Yes, of course. We should have portal axles Yeah. Who knew these bratwursts will (crickets chirping) With their design concept complete, they were ready to make a prototype, so they took all their Erhard and Sons which was well known for manufacturing tractors. And by tractors, of course I mean they specialized in making and doll house furniture. But apparently that's a lot monster trucks because by 1946, they had created one of the monster trucks of all time. Hans named it the universal motor garat and they called it the Unimog for short. The prototype was extraordinarily capable even with its dinky Mercedes but there was one place and that was to war. Now Germany was still in the dog house from all that blitzkrieging on Europe, which is why to build new military vehicles. In fact, Daimler wasn't even allowed to make plain old four They actually had to petition the allies for permission to make the Unimog. They promised that they would only use it for agricultural purposes. Since Mercedes was in time didn't have enough production power to manufacture the vehicle, the Unimog turned to tool Now Boehringer hand built the first model, the Unimog 7200. Okay. (upbeat jingle) I'm used to car names maybe even three numbers in it. This car has a lot of models For instance this one is called the 70200 and I think that's 7200, maybe 70,200 and I'm not quite sure how to say 'em, so I'm just gonna do my best. Please be nice to me. Boehringer built around 600 of these between 1949 and 1951. It was just like the prototype, but relied on a bigger Now Unimogs were utilitarian AF, with an open cab and flat body panels to keep things super And looks didn't matter because to be useful. They were designed to replace an ox, which is probably why the was a U shaped ox head. Despite best efforts to keep Germany from making military vehicles, the Unimog was a military A duh. The high demand for the do-it-all vehicle resulted in Daimler Benz Seems like this may have (engine roaring) (speaking foreign language) In 1955 Daimler created the big daddy 404. Some of the other big developments were that it could be had with a steel cab and a straight six gas engine. It was basically a school bus a brake over axle, and ramp angle. (engine roaring) The 404 is the most iconic Unimog. The design was so simple and efficient that Mercedes manufactured That's almost as long as and they are the most successful model in the name plate's history. They were used as snow farming tractors, military vehicles, and coolest of all, trains. (train tracks rattling) (train braking) Choo, choo. I freakin' love trains. And that was it for a while. For the next 20 years, and rested on its laurels while Daimler developed new models, like they were really just variants of the 404. Why reinvent the enormous wheel? (upbeat music) Now even though Unimog was a tractor, it looked a lot like a truck, but it had a common tractor feature known as power take off or PTO. To this day the PTO help it stand out as the Swiss PTOs are extra drive shafts that can be powered directly by the engine and the uses for them are endless. You need to put out a fire, cool, just attach a water pump to the PTO. You need to till a field, sick, PTO. Need a snowblower, PTO. For accessories that weren't PTO friendly, Unimogs also could be had and pneumatic systems. The systems became standard in 1963, which helped drive a market like bucket loaders, road maintenance equipment. In fact they can turn the truck into any heavy duty construction equipment you could possibly want. Not only could the Unimog it could also go pretty much everywhere. The Unimog had incredible ground clearance thanks to portal axles which that allow the axle to than the center of the wheel hub. It's the equivalent of but for off roaders. Like if you see any of the opposite of a mall crawler, it's a freakin' wall crawler. Now this setup gives the for vertical movement over extremely uneven terrain, including three foot tall rocks. (engine revving) Which is also the name of me Three Foot Tall Rocks, check us out. Then in 1975 they finally with a 4.5 ton U1300L and 5.5 ton U1700L. These were the big boy versions and featured the 5.7 liter With a 17 offering, your or super charger for extra mustard. While having a heavy for obvious reasons, probably about this model is that owned one. Now when Arnie wanted to of Hollywood, he didn't No, he got himself a 1977 1300L Unimog. And guess what, it made him look small. And then came the mid 90s, which saw the creation and my favorite model the Funmog. The Funmog was a luxury version of the 408 with chrome everything, leather interior in a (bleep) sound system. Oddly though, the Funmog so it was basically a golf cart If I had a Funmog man, I'd at the Oscar's, I'd be like, &quot;You left all your sunglasses at my house. &quot;You want 'em back? &quot;Okay, I'll meet you at the (chimes jingling) Lindsay Lohan, huh? Yeah man, Lindsay Lohan. I don't remember her twin sister's name, but I been a big fan ever And since Mercedes had it only made sense to offset that with the new massive I work 2450 baby. 24 hours a day 50 days a year. Unimogs were always and efficient, but in 2002 to their heavy duty truck plant, they got just a little bit fancier with the launch of the Mercedes had to compete manufacturers like Hino and Kamaz. Not only do they compete in the commercial and military markets, they literally compete with them in the notorious Dakar Rally. (engine roaring) (truck honking) Even though they race, it should be noted that the highest trim modern Unimog has a top speed of 56 miles per hour. Slow speeds are just part of the reason you don't see celebrities or at all because they You can get one once they're 25 years old, but do you have any to maintain an old 14,000 pound Mercedes in a country that never sold them? Probably the biggest at movie premiers or swanky restaurants is because they don't belong there. They were designed to be mechanical oxen and using them for anything Can you imagine driving They're freakin' huge. While the basic principles have stayed the same technology has definitely helped In the process of on the second highest volcano a pair of Unimogs just set the record for reaching the highest has ever gone, at 21,961 feet. That's 6,694 meters for our friends that live anywhere besides the US. Whether it's self inflating gearing, or a steering from the right to left hand drive, with the push of a lever, Unimogs are still one of ever created to go Thank you guys so much and everything else on Donut. We've got four weekly shows right now. In the next couple months and that's just the beginning. To make sure you don't go ahead and hit that subscribe button, hit that bell and we'll let We got a podcast now. It's called Pass Gas and dive deep into the most awesome stories, We actually started a just for podcasts. Keep loving cars, I love you guys.