Hi everyone it's Kunihiro. Thank you for to show you how to make karaage, a Japanese Alright here are today's ingredients. So here thighs. We usually use chicken thigh meat and the most flavorful part of a chicken. And skin becomes very crispy once deep-fried And for marinating the chicken, I use salt 2 tablespoons of sake, 1 teaspoon of sesame fresh ginger. And for coating the chicken, I and 70 grams of all-purpose flour. Today I'm using or tapioca starch. The result will be the same. The first thing we do is to wipe off the moisture will reduce The Unwanted smell of chicken. Also, Next, we are going to debone the chicken. and make initial incisions on the left side of Make sure to run the tip of the knife At this time I'm slightly pressing the And once this much bone is and carefully detach the meat from the other Then slide the blade along the Once this much bone is exposed, and cut and disconnect one end of and cut and disconnect the And you'll always find the cartilage Then check if there are no small bones left on And as for the excess skin, you don't have to cut it off. But sometimes it has lots of fat please cut only this part off because the You don't have to be nervous about removing all ones. Okay, this is clean enough. So that's Next, we are going to cut the chicken into you'll notice the middle part where the bone was a first cut at the thinner point. Now the notice one is a little smaller than the other. a kind of big piece. It weighs about 30 grams. And cut this bigger piece Cutting this way will make all the which is very important because equal By the way, please lay these cut chicken come in handy in the next step. Next, we are going So please sprinkle a few pinches of salt and out the chicken flat in the previous step, pepper you are adding at this point. The amount the amount of chicken you have at that time, so salt and black pepper. Also, I suggest usually think was enough. If you add too little Even though today's recipe uses soy not for adding saltiness to the chicken. So Then grate 2 cloves of garlic a nice garlic flavor. But please don't add the entire dish. So stick with two if you Then grate 10 grams of fresh ginger over ginger flavor. However, for the same reason as Then add two tablespoons of soy sauce. It will tablespoons of sake. It will reduce the chicken And in the end, add one teaspoon of sesame oil. it And mix it well and let the Once you don't see any more liquid left in the enough. So cover the chicken with plastic and We'll bring the chicken to room temperature while undercooking. So set this aside for now, and separate bowl and put 70 grams of cornstarch mix it well. We'll use this mixture to coat the but I believe a starch and flour mixture makes Okay, 20 minutes have passed. Your chicken will And mix it well. This egg will act the cornstarch and the flour mixture won't mess up the crispy coating Next, we are going to coat the chicken please arrange these items on the counter, the starch on the flour mixture next, and the and coat it with lots of starch and flour mixture. Then shake off the excess powder and put off like this piece, attach the skin to Then shake off the excess powder After coating, your chicken will look like this. Now let it absorb the moisture on the chicken. Doing So while waiting for the chicken, let's heat fill it with cooking oil up to two centimeters. Then turn on the heat to medium and bring the Once the oil is getting hot, please turn the oil temperature exceeds 170 degrees very this at this point. The starch and the flour have surface is moister than it was minutes ago. That Alright, the oil is getting ready. So to check the temperature of the oil, first and wipe off the water with a paper towel well. then dip the tips of your chopsticks in the chopsticks. At 170 degrees, you'll see many teeny You'll see a lot fewer Bubbles at 160 degrees So now gently put half the chicken into the oil. temperature will drop dramatically causing the to deep-fry the chicken in two batches. And After you put the chicken into the oil, the oil it will soon come back up to 170 degrees on heat at this point. The ideal temperature during so I suggest adjusting the heat After 2 minutes, please turn the chicken And four minutes later, please take all the chicken pieces out of At this point, the core of the chicken chicken rest for 4 minutes and let the By cooking slowly with the remaining While resting the Karaage, And deep fry the remaining So after 2 minutes, turn the chicken over. And after 4 minutes, take them out of the oil and let them rest for 4 minutes And after the second batch rested for 4 minutes, turn the heat back on, this time medium heat, and I'm going to check the This time at 180 degrees, you'll see many Now, put all the Karaage back into the they become golden brown. The purpose the coating and add a beautiful brown Also, this double-frying method allows you the chicken around to make the oil temperature After 30 seconds, please turn the chicken over minute, take the Karaage out, shake off the And drain the oil from the Karaage for one minute. Finally, put the Karaage pieces on a Then please garnish them with a lemon wedge. And in the end, put a little bit of Japanese delicious chicken Karaage is ready. It's very outside. Alright, so that's it for today. I hope please give me a like and leave a comment below. my channel. Thank you so much for watching, and