This video is sponsored by LEGO Insiders Club. my brand new LEGO city. so in this video I'm gonna I'm also gonna build 20 and a half residents, Club members in the LEGO Play App. Well that was easy. literally, and it is very pink. each in its own delightfully different colour. If only. months trial, error, and hard work. and I even built a pair of as well as giving each house Now I have a few options: a boring straight line like this, or I can arrange them in a semi-circle. Finally I used hinges to connect them, between each set of stairs. these houses are actually sooooooo... I caught the 4:32 train to visit Chalcot Crescent. surreal seeing these in real life building them in miniature. The houses are finished, I think with their curve it would it into the curve of the train track, space behind them, the tube station isn't even visible. it would mean moving the train station off-centre. I went ahead and moved them, on to the High Street. The plan here is first to terraform. then laid out baseplates for the rest. there are gonna be various I got to work building the levels, incredibly satisfying. that the timelapses aren't even done yet, something else to talk about. There we go. and it is so cool to have a so far everything's just been but this is entirely made from LEGO. several paths, a road, and loads of room for buildings. I want to plant some saplings. Hopefully these will have grown into So next we've gotta turn this so build up the walls, and build a staircase. I added a basic shop-front, The groundwork's all complete, here but we're ready for some buildings, Let's start with Old Mrs Green, She's the city's florist, Latin names of all the plants she tends to, She also can't recall the name so everyone just calls him Mr Green. this first shop is gonna be Mrs Green's florist. so I added an absolute ton of plants, and these jail doors as a sort of awning. the grey boxiness of it all, Next up, Brimblecot Green. but it looks somewhat odd and short here however, I built an additional two floors. We need someone to work in the newsagents, He lives in the beige house. and most days he feels hopelessly lonely. we'll come back to him later. Brimblecot Green is currently empty, You see in the previous video, Club and the Avatar Builder, creativity by making your own, So I thought it would be fun to and build them in real life for my city. newest resident, how cool is that?! Anyway, buildings to be Tudor-inspired, and crooked staggered floors. and however fiddly it may have been, Seriously, this took me forever, This is gonna be a Fishmonger's, who lives in the Salmon-coloured house, and dreams of one day opening an Aquarium. include in Spronkington, I added a sign, awning, moped, and menu. singer Cecilia Crustini, and can often be heard singing well I really like playing around with and at only eight studs wide, But we can do better! and houses Spronkington cheesemongers, who live in the yellow house. and can't stop eating the stuff, So the building's very thin, This incredibly silly building and I think we've hit the extreme of instead of merely a wall. absurdly thin buildings in a row, and I allowed myself to get I used brown box pieces as a as well as transparent plates and these ingot pieces as book spines. I just think it gives the street so much more life The shop is run by Rose Scribbler, an author, currently troubled Now there's room in the apartment above so again checking the posts you I raided my minifigure parts, I'm gonna put the thin blue one next, This tiny building is actually an office, the occupant of the grey house. wildly successful, of a crippling existential crisis. and he's not wrong. are gonna need somewhere to buy their food, elaborate of them all, This was immensely difficult to build, but it's perfect, out of place on any British High Street. tomatoes, sweetcorn, carrots and pumpkins, It's owned by Nadia, train driver Omar. day growing a prize-winning vegetable, driving trains all day. spot for the Cheesemongers, I built a vets, She lives in the mint-coloured who runs the local animal and the pair can't seem to stop Yet another Tudor-style building with a blue white and red Which brings us to the big one. in the whole of London is this, an art-deco masterpiece. but in it's prime, Beatles, the Rolling Stones and Frank Sinatra. so I attempted to restore it to it's It's gigantic, LEGO themed movie posters, You'd be forgiven for calling it clunky, translates to LEGO bricks, but doesn't the High Street as The cinema's run by colourful who live in the purple house, children hate colour, The final high street building although the owner recently quit, For the flat above though I seriously these are amazing, check out the Avatar Builder, That's the High Street more or less done, but now it's time to add all the details Now the LEGO Play app also has and several of you tagged me in your mosaics too. so I decided to build them for real, I put them near Mrs Green's I then built some fence posts and chains then it was just the finishing touches: bins, a pair of small jetties, train track at the far side. the trees are now fully grown. But what became of our residents? when he discovered an article about Mrs Green, I'm not gonna share it with but she was delighted to find out her first name, Finn sold the fishmongers, he's plans to build Spronkington Aquarium, Belle. Rose Scribbler still has writer's block, and Graham befriended the ghost, They now get pizza together every Tuesday. and whilst Nadia's giant carrot she did beat her own record. Cecilia is still singing, eventually warmed to cinema, movie 'The Brick Separator'. So there we have it, There's still loads to do, really gonna be finished, two sides which are just wood, The city's really taking shape, be a few months before the next update, And don't forget, by downloading the LEGO Play App It doesn't cost and is full of fun things to do. it in LEGO Play and use the hashtag #halfasleep