Good morning, dear sangha, today is the 17th of April, 2014, and we are in the Full Moon meditation hall of the New Hamlet, starting our spring retreat. A few months ago, Thay said that the beauty of Mother Earth is a bell of mindfulness. It's spring time now and you can see how beautiful Mother Earth is. If you don't see it, why? If you can see the beauty of spring, of the earth, of Mother Earth, then happiness will be there right away. But maybe something is blocking the way preventing you to see the beauty of Mother Earth. Maybe you are lacking for something else and you do not hear the call of Mother Earth. Mother Earth is calling you, saying &quot;My child, I am here for you. Everything is for you.&quot; And that is true. The sunshine, the flowers, the birds, the clear streams, water, the cherry blossoms, everything is for you, my child. If you don't hear that, it's because your mind is full of things preventing you from hearing the call of Mother Earth. Not only is Mother Earth beautiful in spring time she is also beautiful in summer, and in autumn she is also very beautiful, and in winter she is also very beautiful. The beauty of Mother Earth is always there for us. And she is telling you that she is there and she loves you. When you hold in your hand a fruit like an orange or a kiwi, you see that this is an offering, a gift of mother Earth. Every flower is a smile of Mother Earth. She is smiling to you, and you don't want to smile back. Every fruit is a gift to you by Mother Earth, but you do not feel thankful, because you are not there... for her, you are not there for life, because Mother Earth is life, and you are part of Mother Earth. So if you hear the bell of mindfulness, the beauty of the earth, you will respond &quot;I am here, Mother Earth.&quot; The basic condition for you to hear the call of Mother Earth and to respond to her is silence. If you do not have silence in yourself, if your mind, your body is full of noises, then you cannot hear her call. There is a radio going on in your head, Non-Stop-Thinking Radio. You are full of noises in your heart, in your mind, and that is why you cannot hear the call of Mother Earth - the call of life, the call of love. Your heart is calling you, but you don't hear. You do not have the time to listen to your heart. But with the practice of mindfulness, you'll be able to stop the noise in you. And it is easy enough. A person who does not practice can be pulled away by many things. She can be pulled away by the past, the regret, the sorrow concerning the past, she wants to always go back to the past in order to suffer again and again the suffering of the past. She is caught in the prison of the past. And a person who is anxious, fearful about the future, she's pulled away by the future. Anxiety, fear, uncertainty prevent her to be there in order to hear the call of Mother Earth. So the future becomes a kind of prison. And even in the present moment, you are distracted, you feel you are empty, you have a feeling of vaccum, emptiness in yourself. You long for something, you expect something, you wait for something to arrive to make your life a little bit more excited. You expect something to arrive in order to change the situation because the situation in the present moment is very boring for you... nothing special, nothing interesting. But in fact, if you are really there, having the capacity to listen and to look, you see that life is full of wonders, it's not boring at all, and you can enjoy everything, every moment of life. So the practitioner, every time she hears the sound of the bell, she stops. She listens to the bell of mindfulness and she follows her inbreath: Breathing in, I know I am breathing in. She focuses all her attention on her inbreath, and she breathes in mindfully. And while breathing in mindfully, paying attention only to the inbreath, she releases everything, the past, the future, the longing for something. She stops the thinking and she may enjoy the inbreath. And in 2, 3 seconds, she may awaken to the fact that she is alive, she is breathing in, she IS there. She exists. She touches the wonders of life. &quot;Ah, I'm here, alive.&quot; So stopping thinking about the past, the future, the projects, stopping longing for something, she focuses her attention on her inbreath, she enjoys the fact that she is breathing, that she is alive. And then the noises within just disappear. And there is emptiness - the emptiness of sound. Very powerful, very eloquent. And she can answer to Mother Earth: &quot;Mother, I'm here! I am free! And you can count on me.&quot; &quot;I'm here&quot; - What does it mean? It means &quot;I exist.&quot; I am not &quot;non-existent.&quot; I'm really here because I'm not lost in the past, in the future, in my thinking, in the noises inside and the noises outside. I'm here. And thanks to the practice of mindful breathing, she gets freedom for all the kinds of tendencies and noises and suddenly she feels free to be. In order to be, you have to be free. And free from what? Free from the thinking, free from the anxieties, from the fear, free from longing. And so you can hear the call of Mother Earth and you say: &quot;Mother, I am here. As a child of yours, as part of the wonder, I am free. I am free from all these things that prevent me to be, and to enjoy myself and to enjoy the world.&quot; &quot;I am free&quot; is a strong statement, because many of us are not free. We do not have the freedom that allows us to hear and to see. In Plum Village, we speak of... we practice a kind of silence, called &quot;noble silence&quot;. The practice is easy, because if you have the silence, the noble silence in us, we are free. We are free to... to hear the deepest call of our heart. We just finished a very wonderful french retreat. I remember that day in Upper Hamlet, we had lunch together outside, sitting on the grass. We sat in a circle one small circle, and then another circle around. Everyone went and served and came and sat down and we didn't say anything, we practiced noble silence. No one was talking Thay was the first one who sat down in the inner circle. He practiced mindful breathing to establish silence in him and he listened to the birds, to the wind, and he enjoyed the beauty of spring in the Upper Hamlet. He was not waiting, he was not exactly waiting for others to come and sit down in order to begin eating. He did not spend his time waiting. He sat about 20 or more minutes while other people served and came to join him and sit. There was silence. No one was talking. But that silence is not deep enough, because there may be thinking going on - while you serve, while you walk, you hold your plate and you walk... and Thay was sitting there, with silence, and he observed. There was silence, but not the best, because there was some thinking going on in people who were serving, walking, and sitting down. And then, when everyone was seated, Thay began to invite the bell of mindfulness and since we have spent one week together practicing listening to the bell and breathing in and out mindfully, everyone practiced very well. Right after the first sound of the bell of mindfulness, the silence is quite different. It's the real silence. Because everyone stopped thinking, just focused the attention on the inbreath and breathing in. We breathed together! And no one was thinking anymore. And that kind of silence is a noble silence, and it is a collective silence. It's very powerful! And you can call it &quot;thundering silence.&quot; Because it is very eloquent, very powerful. Silence, but powerful like a thunder. And suddenly, you hear the wind, and the birds, very very clearly. Against that background of silence, you hear. Before that, you could hear the birds and the wind, but not in the same way, because you did not have the deepest kind of silence. And many of us who are here today you remember that moment. It's so wonderful. We were all capable of touching the beauty of spring. And the voice of Mother Earth calling and saying &quot;I love you.&quot; So the practice of silence in order to empty all kinds of sounds within yourself, is not a difficult practice. With some training, you can do it, and when you can do it together, it's very powerful, very healing. And with the silence, you can walk, you can sit, you can enjoy your meal. And when you have that kind of silence, you have enough freedom to enjoy being alive, to enjoy the wonders of life. With that kind of silence, you are more capable of healing yourself mentally and physically. You have the capacity to be to be alive, to be there alive, so you are responding to Mother Earth &quot;I am here, I am free.&quot; Because you are really free - free from your regrets, your suffering concerning the past, free from your fear, uncertainty about the future, free from all kinds of noises, of thinking in your mind. So the practice of noble silence is possible with some training. Especially when you are supported by brothers and sisters in the practice. Silence is not a sound, but it is also a very powerful sound. This winter is not so cold in France, but we hear that it's very cold in North America. Over there they had snow storms, and from time to time it was getting down to -20 degrees centigrade. And Thay saw the picture of Niagara Falls. The falls stopped falling. It's not a fall anymore. It's frozen. Thay saw that image, very impressed - he was very impressed. The fall stopped falling - together with the sound. And whatever tree or bush that stands nearby: for the first time, they hear a new sound: silence. And they ask: &quot;What kind of sound is that!?&quot; Silence. About 50 years ago, Thay was in Chiang Mai in the north of Thailand, in a retreat for young people. It's located in an area called Doi Suthep near a very famous temple called Wat Pha Lat (?) And Thay was staying in a hut, close to a cascade, a big creek and always the sound of water falling. And Thay enjoyed bathing, washing his clothes, and taking a nap on the big stones in the creek. But always there was that sound of water falling - day and night - the same kind of sound! And Thay looked at the bushes the trees around, and Thay said &quot;Well, since their birth, they have heard this sound, so suppose this sounds stops, and then they will be surprised. And if for the first time, they hear the no-sound, silence.&quot; And Thay wrote a poem &quot;The sound of no sound&quot; Unfortunately, the poem is lost... and he can not recall. That was in 1960 something... 1975. He cannot recall the poem except the title. &quot;The sound of no sound&quot; So Thay imagined that if suddenly the water stopped running, then all this vegetation that had been hearing from their birth to that time always, day and night, that kind of sound, they would be very surprised, because it would be the first time in their lives, that they would hear the sound of no sound. And they would ask: &quot;What sound is that?&quot; So that is why silence is a kind of sound. Very strange. And it can be very powerful. This morning, we chanted the name of Avalokiteshvara, the Bodhisattva of Deep Listening. There is a chapter in the Lotus Sutra, about bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara. That is chapter 25 of the Lotus Sutra called The Universal Door. Samanta mukha Mukha is &quot;the door, the exit&quot;. Samanta is &quot;universal&quot;. And the name of the bodhisattva is Avalokitesvara, and translated in Chinese: [Chinese] &quot;the one who observes, who meditates, who listens deeply to the sound of the world.&quot; That bodhisattva has the capacity to listen to all kinds of sounds and he can also pronounce a kind of sound that can heal the world. The word [Ung (Chinese)] means &quot;sound&quot; or &quot;voice, sound.&quot; In the 25th chapter of the Lotus Sutra, five kinds of sounds are mentioned. [Yu Ung (Chinese)]: wonderful sound We have a sister here called Tang Yu Ung: &quot;Sound of wonders&quot; The wonders of life are calling you. They are a kind of sound. Do you hear? Do you hear them? Do you hear the sound of the birds, of the rain, etc? [Quang te an (Chinese)]: the sound of the one who observes the world. [Pham an (Chinese)]: the brahma sound. The brahma sound has a very long history in Indian buddhist thought. This is brahma - [Pham (Chinese)]. That is the transcendental sound, and that is a word, that has the power to create the world. that has a word that has the innate power to convey a particular sense of meaning. In the Upanishads, in the Vedas, the sound is Om, like &quot;Om&quot; in &quot;Om Mani Padme Hum&quot;. The cosmos, the world, the universe was created by a sound. That is the brahma sound - Om. You know that in the Christian gospel, the gospel according to... it was the same kind of idea - the beginning of the world is.. the Word. In the beginning, there was the Word. Au commencement, c'etait le verbe. And according to the Vedas, that Word, that &quot;verbe&quot; is Om. And that is brahma word. According to many schools in the Indian traditions, they agree on that. And the Purva Mimamsa tradition considers that word &quot;Om&quot; as the cosmic sound. Brahma sound is cosmic sound. And the Vedanta consider it to be the ultimate reality - God. God is a sound. The creator of the cosmos is a sound. Everything begins by the sound. &quot;Au commencement, c'etait le verbe.&quot; Modern scientists tend to believe the same kind of thing. They have been looking for the beginning of time, the beginning of the cosmos, and they think that the sound that was at the very beginning of the universe is &quot;bang&quot;. Big bang! Not only Avalokiteshvara can listen to the wonders of life can listen to the cries, the suffering of the world, but he can listen also to the ultimate reality, the sound of the ultimate reality. [Chinese] &quot;The sound of the rising tide.&quot; The sound of the rising tide symbolizes the teaching of the Buddha, the voice of the Buddha. It's very powerful. In Sanskrit, the word for &quot;ocean&quot; is &quot;saghara&quot; but in the Sanskrit version of the Lotus Sutra, we have the expression &quot;jala dhara garita&quot; &quot;Garita&quot; is the sound. Translated in Chinese, it's [Chinese]. &quot;Jala dhara&quot; means &quot;the big cloudss in the sky that bring about the rain.&quot; [Chinese]: big cloud, big rain. And it means also [Chinese]: great ocean. So: &quot;the sound of the great ocean.&quot; And that is [Chinese]: &quot;the sound of the rising tide.&quot; It's very powerful. The teaching of the Buddha can destroy a lot of misunderstanding, remove afflictions and transform. It's very powerful. There was a moment of renewing Buddhism in China, in 1918 Chinese scholars, including monks and laypeople, they came together and they published a Buddhist magazine called &quot;The Sound of the Rising Tide.&quot; A very beautiful title for a Buddhist magazine So Thay was very influenced by that, when he was a novice attending the Buddhist institute he also gathered friends in order to publish a small magazine within [Chinese], and he used the words &quot;The sound of the rising tide.&quot; A group of novices who helped Thay publish [Chinese], they have become very old monks. All of them have died, except Thay, and another one still alive in Hue. He has been invited to Plum Village several times - but he said &quot;I'm too old, I cannot come.&quot; [Name of monk] at [name of temple] It's him who gave the money in order for us to buy paper and ink in order to make that magazine. But the ideas promoted by that magazine were so advanced, so progressive - that is why we were forbidden to continue. The sound that transcends all the sounds of the world. [Vietnamese] And when you think of Avalokiteshvara, you're going to meditate on him, you have to understand him in terms of 5 kinds of sounds. The sound of wonder, the sound of the one who observes the world, the ultimate sound of brahma, the sound of the rising tide and the sound that transcends all worldly sounds. We know in the Buddhist school of logic, which very closely belongs to the school of manifestation only, many teachers have been trying to say that the sound is something impermanent. It cannot be the ultimate reality, because it is conditioned, a conditioned phenomenon, and not un-conditioned. Because in Buddhism, we speak of two kinds of phenomena: conditioned and un-conditioned. Samskrita and asamskrita hu wi and wo wi All conditioned dharmas are impermanent [Chinese] &quot;All formations are impermanent.&quot; [Sanskrit]: &quot;because there are things that have to go through birth and death.&quot; So sound is the same. Sound cannot be considered to be ultimate. So according to Buddhist logic, they use also this operation - this logical operation, in order to prove that sound is not something permanent. The premise, the thesis is sound... is... impermanence. This is the [inaudible]: &quot;Sound is something impermanent.&quot; Why? &quot;Because its nature is to be created, to be made.&quot; &quot;Because its nature is being created, being made.&quot; It means that according to our observation anything that is made, anything that is created must be impermanent. So if the word (world?) is created, the word (world?) is impermanent. The sound is something impermanent, because its nature is 'having been created.' Example: A pot A teapot, or a flowerpot. These things, their nature is having been made, created. One day, they will be broken. And because sound is created, that is why sound is also impermanent. So you cannot say that the sound, even Om, is the ultimate reality, is the creator. This logical operation is called the 3-member, the 3-limb operation. But we have to quote the Ratnakuta Sutra. In the Ratnakuta Sutra, which is one of the earliest Mahayana sutras, Ratnakuta, chapter 40 speaks about the voice, the word of the Buddha, of the Tathagata. And it is said that the word of the Buddha, the word of Avalokitesvara also, is first of all: &quot;di giai&quot; The word of the Buddha is something easy to understand. It's very important, because many scholars have made the Buddha's teachings very complicated, soooo difficult to understand. And that is why, if something is too complicated, it is not the sound of the Buddha. &quot;di minh thuc&quot;: &quot;di&quot; means &quot;easy&quot;... &quot;easy to understand&quot; &quot;di minh thuc&quot;: &quot;minh&quot; means &quot;clearly,&quot; &quot;thuc&quot; means &quot;awareness, consciousness&quot; &quot;easy to be recognized... clearly.&quot; &quot;bat cao dai am&quot;: &quot;Not too loud&quot;, &quot;Not big words, not too loud.&quot; &quot;Not too noisy, not noisy.&quot; &quot;The sound of the Buddha is not noisy, is not too loud.&quot; &quot;Pham tien am&quot;: &quot;Pham thien&quot; is &quot;brahma&quot; - equivalent to this. &quot;Hai thieu am&quot;: &quot;the sound of the rising tide.&quot; This is the Ratnakuta Sutra. &quot;Van loi&quot;: &quot;the sound of thunder and of the cloud.&quot; The cloud can give birth to lightning and thunder and the cloud represents the ocean. So this silence is thunder. &quot;Hu Khong&quot; is space, &quot;luong&quot; is the capacity: &quot;The sound that follows the capacity of space.&quot; It means the sound that can fill the totality of space. Everywhere you are, you find yourself, you hear the sound. Even if you are in prison, you hear the sound, the voice of the Buddha. Even if you are in hell, you can hear the voice of the Buddha. Even if you are in a distant [inaudible], you can hear the voice of the Buddha. The sound of the realization of everything that is marvelous... everything that is marvelous The sound of the realization of everything that is wondrous. You can achieve enlightenment, you can achieve awakening, you can achieve great compassion, and so on. So that is found in the Ratnakuta Sutra, which is one of the earliest Mahayana sutras. The Lotus Sutra came later. And we see that the brahma sound and the sound of the rising tide is already existing in the sutra and you find them again in the Lotus Sutra. When we have been able to still all the noises inside of you, when you have been able to establish silence - the thundering silence in you, you begin to hear the deepest kind of calling from within yourself. Your heart is calling you, your heart is telling you something it's trying to tell you something, but you have not been able to hear what your heart is trying to tell you, because your mind is full of noise. You are pulled away always, day and night, you are full of thoughts, and especially negative thoughts. In our daily lives, we spend most of the time looking for comforts - material comforts and affective comforts in order to barely survive, and that takes all our time. These belong to what we call the daily concerns. We are preoccupied with our daily concerns. How to have enough money, how to have enough food, shelter, salary, material comforts. That is our daily concern. And beside our concerns for material comfort, we also need affective concerns. Whether he loves you, or she still wants to support you, and you worry all day because of that kind of question. You are looking for someone to rely on, you depend on him or her, and you are trying to... to have a kind of relation that is good enough to survive, not too difficult, not too difficult a relationship, and you spend 99.99% of your time worrying about these things called daily concerns about material comforts and affective concerns. But the deepest concern in you, you have not seen it, you have not heard it, and that is the ultimate concern. Everyone of us has an ultimate concern that has nothing to do with material concern and affective concern. What do we want to do with our life? That is the question. You are there, but why are you there? Who are you? What do you want to do with your life? So all these questions you don't have the time to answer. Who are you? Have you had the time to answer that question? That is a very big question. Where do you come from? Why are you there? What do you want to do with your life? These are not just philosophical questions, because if you are not able to answer them, you do not have peace, and you do not have joy and happiness. Because no joy and happiness is possible without some peace. And many of us are ignorant about these kinds of things. And many of us say that we can never answer these questions. But with meditation, with mindfulness and concentration, you can see. You can see with your own eyes, you can hear with your own ears, provided that you have some silence within, provided that you have enough room, then you can find out the truth about these questions, and hear the deepest call of your heart. What do you really want? Not a comfortable material life, not to have a not-too-difficult relationship - that's not enough. You want something else, deeper, you have a deepest desire, but you do not know what that desire is. Your deepest desire it not to have a lot of money, not to have fame, big fame, or power, or sex. These are not your biggest desires. Your heart will tell you what is your deepest and biggest desire - your ultimate concern - not your daily concern. So when you ask the question &quot;Who are you?&quot; if you have enough time and concentration, then you can see that you are a continuation of your ancestors. Just by simple observation, you may obtain the answers. It's easy to see that you are a continuation of your parents. Your parents and your ancestors are fully present in every cell of your body. You are their continuation. You do not have a separate self. If you remove your ancestors and your parents outside of you, there is no &quot;you&quot; left. And you see that you are made of elements like water. You are made of water. If you remove water from you, there is no &quot;you&quot; left. You are made of earth. If you remove the element of earth out of you, there is no &quot;you&quot; left. You are made of air. And you need air desperately - without air, you cannot survive. So the element of air within you, if you remove it, there is no &quot;you&quot; left. And the element of heat, the element of light in you. You know that you are made of light. Without light, without the sunshine, nothing can grow on earth, and you have nothing to eat, and you see that Father Sun is a source of light. Father Sun is a source of food. And you consume Father Sun every moment. Without Father Sun, Mother Earth cannot be as beautiful as she is. And you are a son of the sun, you are a daughter of the sun, and you find out who you are. You know that you are a continuation of your ancestors, you are a child of the Earth, you are a child of the Sun, and in you, Mother Earth, Father Sun can be found in you. You are Father Sun, you are Mother Earth. And these things are not speculation, because you can touch the truth by yourself You are made of elements like air, water, earth, and light. And consciousness manifests itself as the cosmos. If you continue to look, you see that you are made of the sun - the sun is one of the biggest stars in the galaxy, and you know that the earth, as well as yourself, are made of the stars So you are the stars. On a clear night, you look up, and you can see that you are the stars above you are not just this tiny, little physical body. So meditation is to have the time to still yourself, to establish silence in order for you to look deeply in order to find out who you are, and what you want to do with your life. In the teaching of the Buddha, we speak about 4 kinds of nutriments, 4 kinds of food. First of all, edible food that you eat every day. Then, sense impressions, sense impressions, and you consume with your eyes, ears, nose, tongue, body, and mind. You consume all the things: internet is one of the things you consume, newspapers, movies, conversations, all these are not edible foods, but you consume every day. You consume. The second source of nutriments is sense impressions. The third source of nutriments is volition. Volition is your desire, your concern. You know that besides the daily concern, you have an ultimate concern. You have a deep desire, you want to realize something with your life. You don't just try to survive. You want to realize something. That is the third source of nutriment. Maybe your desire is to help people to suffer less; your desire is to help Mother Earth to be preserved; your desire is to help people to suffer less; and many of us have that kind of desire in us, spending our time, our life in order to help people suffer less. And when people suffer less, we suffer less. When people know how to experience joy, and peace, and happiness, you experience joy, peace and happiness. So if we have the time, we sit down and look, and recognize the deepest call of our heart. Your heart is telling you what to do with your life so that your life has a meaning, so that true joy and happiness are possible, and not just trying to survive materially and affectively. So the silence within the silence of noise is within, is the precondition for you to recognize your deepest desire, your deepest volition, because the third source of nutriment is volition: your deepest desire, your ultimate concern. And the fourth nutriment is consciousness because if you have consumed a lot of negative... negative elements, then you will produce negative elements for yourself. And you are eating your own consciousness. Suppose you are producing ideas, thoughts that are negative - negative thinking - because you have consumed so much of these things as consciousness. When you are surrounded with people who have a lot of sadness, fear, anger anxiety, pessimism: you consume. And your consciousness is full of these negative things. And when you produce thoughts and ideas that are negative, you are consuming your own consciousness, and you are consuming the collective consciousness of a group of people. If you happen to live with a group of people who are full of anger and fear and pessimism and despair, that collective energy you have consumed is not very healthy, that is why now your thinking is full of negativity. And that is because of the 4th kind of nutriment. But when you hear the voice of the Buddha, the voice of a bodhisattva full of compassion, full of understanding and love, when you hear the calling of Mother Earth, full of patience, full of love, then you consume. You consume wholesome elements of life, you consume the wonders of life, you consume the sound of the rising tide, you consume the sound of the ultimate, and then one day, you begin to to offer positive thinking, positive talking that will help heal you, and heal the world. When you produce a thought full of pessimism, a thought full of anger and fear, and hate, that thought produced by yourself will harm you, destroy your health and destroy the health of the world. That is called wrong thinking. But in the teaching of the Buddha, you practice right thinking, producing only thoughts that can heal you and heal the world. The thoughts that have the elements of understanding and compassion. So you have to learn how to nourish yourself with compassion and understanding, so that you can produce thoughts with understanding and compassion. When you hear a Dharma talk by the Buddha, you consume. You consume understanding, you consume compassion. And if you consume every day this healthy food, then one day you will stop producing negative thoughts. You'll produce thoughts in the line of understanding and compassion called &quot;right thinking&quot;. And together with right thinking, there is right speech and right action. These kinds of things have the power to heal you, and to heal the world. That is why, if it happens that you are always pessimistic, if you always think and speak in terms of anger, or hate, or despair, because you have consumed too much of these things So the 5th Mindfulness Training is about mindful consumption. You don't hear, you don't look you do not consume the things that are toxic, full of fear, anger, hate. When you go to the internet, you know that there are plenty of good things in it. And you know that there are plenty of toxic things in it. So in the internet there is a source of nutriment, a source of consumption. When you read magazines, novels, watch TV, you consume, and you know that practicing the 5th Mindfulness Training, you will not consume things that have toxins and poisons. So you know that if you have the tendency or habit of thinking negatively because you have consumed in such a way that has poisoned your consciousness. And that is why, practicing the 5th Mindfulness Training, you begin to refrain from consuming the wrong things. You begin to consume only the right things that nourish the elements of understanding and compassion in you, and you get the healing that you need, and you are in a position to heal yourself and help heal the world. And suddenly, you see that your life has a meaning. That is about volition. If you can hear the voice of Mother Earth calling you, then you don't want to run anymore. You have been running and looking for something. Because you think that that something you are looking for is very crucial for your peace and your happiness. You want to - you demand - to have this condition, and that condition in order for you to be happy. And you believe that you do not have enough conditions to be happy right now. That is the habit energy of running that many people have. I cannot be peaceful now, I cannot be joyful now, I cannot enjoy it now, because I need more conditions. So you are demanding. But Mother Earth shows you that the present moment is full of wonders. The sound of wonders. If you can be there and free, you can be happy right here and right now - you don't have to run anymore. But you are not capable of listening to the call of Mother Earth, to the call of your heart, because you are full of noises, and you are carried away by these kinds of noises in you, that is why you cannot hear yourself, you cannot hear the voice of Mother Earth who is calling you. That is why the practice of Plum Village can be described as very simple. The practice of mindful breathing, the practice of mindful walking help you to enjoy the here and the now in every moment. All the wonders of life are already there. They are calling you and if you hear them you can stop running, and you begin to enjoy the wonders of life. The sound of wonders. Your body is a wonder. The tree standing outside is a wonder. The sunshine is a wonder. Springtime is a wonder. And yet you cannot get in touch. There is a Vietnamese poet who said: &quot;Spring has come. All the flowers are trying to open. How about your heart? Why don't you let your heart open like other flowers, and be happy right here and right now?&quot; What we need is silence. Stop the noise in your heart in order for the wonderful sound of life to be heard. And we begin to live our lives properly and deeply.