FEMALE SPEAKER: Great. So welcome everybody, for coming along to today's I'm incredibly excited to He's going to be talking to us Doug has had a 20-year acting spent in Hollywood, acting in from &quot;Snoopy&quot; all the way In your first movie, were responsible for karate DOUG STEVENSON: No, I was karate chopped FEMALE SPEAKER: Oh, OK, there you go. And in your most was a Perry Mason DOUG STEVENSON: Yes, yes, yes. Perry Mason movie of the week. FEMALE SPEAKER: Great. And so we're excited We need to learn a little and the power of storytelling in your book, &quot;The So over to you. DOUG STEVENSON: Thank you. Thank you. It's really exciting to be here. Go ahead, a little applause Thank you. [APPLAUSE] The first reframe that I want is this. Stories are products. Stories are products. They could be monetized. They can make you money. And the Google story is 1995, Sergey Brin and Larry Start to collaborate, They're both technology guys. They decided yeah, we've And in 1996, they had created And this is probably that had ever occurred It was a new concept, new idea. At Stanford University, And so here they are and it's really and the students are thinking it's really cool. But it took too much bandwidth and so they had to And in 1997, I decided we need a new name. Back Rub is kind of weird. That's not the right name. And they came up with Google. They went out and bought And over a period of time, they This is amazing. This is good technology. We need to do And that's where story came in. They knew they had to go sit people, somebody who could give knew they didn't have They had to find somebody And so they went talking to different people. And they ended up getting lucky. There was this guy at Sun Microsystems. And they sat down across and they told the story of a engine technology that to find any Now, this didn't exist outside and it was a new And they had to in Andy's mind of They told the story. They walked out of that Are stories products? Did they sell that story? Did it monetize their business? Yes. And so what I want you to is with this story we're going to expand to engage and inform people's attention with this is a combination of what I Shakespeare and studying movies Because storytelling and business. So here's the exercise Recall a childhood memory Five seconds. OK, you've got something. It happened just that fast. Am I right? Did something pop up for you? Yes or no. It happens just that fast. Your brain goes on a Google for all of the movies and all and [POP] something pops up. Now, what just happened? When you recalled when you recalled that movie, and what did you see? Did you see a Yes? Did you see a picture? Did you see a scene? If it was from a movie, did So here's what I need to do. I need some interactivity here. I need one person to and what you saw, and one person and what did you see. So somebody raise your hand. I'll point to you, and give What do you got? AUDIENCE: My with friends riding Big Wheels DOUG STEVENSON: OK. How old were you in this memory? How far back does this go? AUDIENCE: Grade school. DOUG STEVENSON: Grade school. So six, seven, AUDIENCE: Something like that. DOUG STEVENSON: OK. Can you see that right now? Can you describe to AUDIENCE: Yes. DOUG STEVENSON: Describe it. AUDIENCE: We're outside. It's a nice, bright sunny day. There's a lot of people smiling. We're on our Big Wheels. There's people falling down. There's people racing There's a lot of activity. It's kind of loud. It's a lot of fun. We're by ourselves. There's no parental supervision. It's kind of dangerous. It's exciting. DOUG STEVENSON: All right. Do you hear the And why can he give me He is watching the Would you agree? AUDIENCE: Yes. DOUG STEVENSON: You're and going step by step by step. While he's looking at he is watching a Vision out, vision Amazing, amazing technology. This gray matter in Now, thank you very much. Somebody with the childhood Somebody with the movie, and give me something. AUDIENCE: Transformers, And I just remember when knew it so well that the lines from the through the different scenes. DOUG STEVENSON: So you It's memorable. AUDIENCE: Yep. DOUG STEVENSON: And because and visualize the characters you can remember what Am I correct? AUDIENCE: Yep. DOUG STEVENSON: And so this Literally, story is the most you can have in your want to be memorable, if Now, if you don't if you want to and say a whole bunch of stuff and go delete, and they go on changes, then you But if you want to be and all of those scenes then you need to be Now, here's the thing about Why that childhood memory? Why that movie? Because it was an Would you agree that had some joy or sorrow, For those of you who had a Was it an emotionally OK. The movie, was that Did you really dig that movie? It was fun? So if you had a movie, Because it was a cool movie. Because I dug it. Because while I was It was exciting. We don't remember things that So if you've ever given a was filled with all and it didn't stick, was no emotional connection. You know what the I'm hired to go out and work and teams? They want the Because they understand if I don't make an the stuff doesn't stick. Would you agree? It's that emotional connection. And your data and very seldom do that. But you know if I with imagery and You have a better shot So on your handout, page one. I want to read a And this is the book that This is the author. Doug Stevenson's So the quote on this page by John Medina. One important area the effect of Emotionally arousing events than neutral events. They persist much and recalled with greater Emotion is the fast If you can infuse your and I don't mean you got but I mean you get into it. You have some energy. You have some emotion. You're charged by the story. And if it's a personal story, So emotion is the fast Now, down at the I'm going to talk to that the story your story to the But I want to reframe I want you to think of as an app for storytelling. Now, I don't know about you, my iPhone, and I had an Android the iPhone, the agree that's an amazing I mean, just out of the It just does all But when does it become really When you start downloading the Would you agree? So who's got Yelp? Anybody got Yelp? I love Yelp. It helps me right here because I could find restaurants. I found a sushi So cool. Google Maps. Oh my gosh. I got lost yesterday. I went for a six mile run. I found a running trail. I could map the run So I could see where am I and how far have I gone. And then I got lost on so I thought, oh my Oh, there I am. It's like, this is Well, the apps make your iPhone, and they take your The story theater method takes because it makes it more So at the bottom of the page, strategic storytelling. First of all, you're going how to choose the right There are all kinds ConAgra wanted me to help them to not be so technical in their Microsoft wanted me to for their sales presentations. Lockheed Martin wanted me to and give these briefings that Everybody's got a but there's a different and utility. It's like every story is a How to craft your stories That's the nine steps of story method that I'm going How to craft the story. It's not enough to have It is not enough to just I'll just tell it. Have you ever had the you had this really good story? It was in your head, and it And you thought, this is And then you get telling that story, it just starts coming And you forget things, and Am I the only one who's And you delete a critical And you don't know you through the story. And you go, oh my god, without that piece. I'll insert it now. Does that work? Come on, tell me. No. Say no. It doesn't work because if don't have the right So the nine steps of story How to identify one I'm going to share with about the phrase that to perform your stories I'm going to perform a and you're going to see how the story to become So do I have any Anybody ever done any acting? Yes? See some hands. The videographer. Oh yay! I got one person over here. Anybody do any stand up comedy? How about go to a You become a good actor If I could capture you you're no longer just goofing off with friends. You've had a glass of wine. You've had a beer. Oh my god, I got to Oh my gosh, all of a sudden Then you come up and give What happens? [WHOOSHING NOISE] I am cool. I'm professional. So the story theater it to be more theatrical, And then finally, how to How do you monetize your story? What is a job promotion worth? You get a promotion get an increase in salary. Which leads to another increase in salary. Over 20 years, Add it up. One of my students was going to be in a They get 10 minutes and do their presentation. They wanted to work on the presentation. There was a competition. There was always other people You get to come in. There's these people with It's like, come in, do your They came to me and worked story of this vision that company right here in They walked into that room. They did their 10 minutes. And they won $25 million. What is your story worth? What is your story worth? Because your personal you have some idea, some vision, You can change the world, and Now, anybody here want while making a lot of money? Anybody? I don't know about to be able to pay my your life at the same time. I have another student who you know what? I'm going to be a but right now I'm a nurse. But I got this awesome story. We worked on that story. She has built a multimillion business on the basis of I had another guy who came I'm making these presentations on me. And I'm making but they're not working. And I think I'm telling stories. I worked with him for His closing ratio after one hour of working on in a presentation. How do you monetize What are your stories worth? They're worth a lot of money. So let's go to page three. Move it or lose them, What happens to the audience Well, let me perform a story. We'll see what happens. Back in 1998, I I was sitting in my office. The phone rang. It was a speaker's bureau. And she called me that I'd been chosen to do the outside of Kansas City The Positive Power of And she said the meeting She wants to make sure Give her a call. So I called her up, am in charge of everything. I don't do this kind of thing. But this is the annual meeting. It's a really big deal. So you have to be at the I'm going to pick going to drive down We're going to get set up, and I've got to work with the Could you be-- you have OK, OK. 5:30 PM. I'll be at the front desk. Fine. I was thinking to myself OK so she's not picking Man, if I fly in going to waste the entire day. I never get anything done. I'm so bad on the road. Why am I so bad? How many times can How many times can How many times can But I had a rule. And I think you guys If you're a business fly in for a meeting on the It's a bad idea. Am I right? It's a bad idea. But I was thinking because this isn't LA to Boston. This is Colorado Middle of the country to I thought, maybe it's possible. I'll call my travel agent. You could tell how old using a travel agent. Travel agent. Yeah. Hi, Carol? I'm good. How are you? Yes. Uh huh, another booking, yeah. Kansas City. August 28. Actually, Carol, could I know, I know. I have a rule. 2:30? Really, 2:30? Well, no. She's not picking It would give me three hours. Ah, is there a backup? There is. OK. OK. Mm, OK. What's the routing? Through O'Hare. OK. All right. Just give me just a sec. Don't do this. Don't do this. OK, let's do this. OK fine. Thanks. I don't know why, but I I thought, this time Positive Power Change. I mean, that's what I do. So on the day of the booking, Took off on time, flying at O'Hare airport, walk out B. Departure board, OK, there we go. Des Moines, Jacksonville, B18 delayed. Oh, man. It's delayed an hour. OK, well it's only Instead of 2:30, I Still two hours. Not bad. Went to the Red Carpet Club. Had an hour to kill. Came back, looked at the Red Carpet Club, Delayed again. Finally, finally, I get into Kansas City. The plane had pulled It is on the ground, 4:45. 4:45. Oh my god. What did she say? At rush hour, enough taxis at the the little blue They run every half hour. 4:45. You do the math. I'm sitting in my seat. Row 28. Window seat. I am literally in the I've got 15 minutes, to get all the way out What are my chances? Ha ha ha. The positive power change. The positive power change. OK, come on. Let's go down the aisle, people, OK, come on. Positive power-- oh Come on, positive power change. Are you kidding me, lady? Is that your entire life? Have you ever flown-- OK, all right. Good, good, good. Here we go. Here we go. OK. All right. OK. Positive power of change. Hit the-- [INAUDIBLE]. Come on. Finally, I get off the plane. Luggage carousel, OK, OK. Five minutes. OK. Come on, come on. I finally get to the curb. [INAUDIBLE] 5:00. Whoa, shuttle bus. No taxis. Positive power of change. Positive power of change. What do we teach? Reframe the situation. Change represents an better to take No taxis. That's my shuttle bus. 5:05. This is an opportunity better to take place in my life. [INAUDIBLE] And then I see it sitting Literally, I've been of a long white stretch limo. Sitting right there. I'm thinking, opportunity. I look over, and And there's this He looks like Danny He's just closing the Hi, excuse me. Are you by any chance going I've got to get a ride. I'm a motivational speaker, and It's an emergency. There's no taxis. Can you give me a ride? This might be your lucky day. Really? Why is it my lucky-- guy he his flight got going to [INAUDIBLE] head back. Can we work something out? You've got $20. I do have $20. Give me the $20. I give the man $20. He takes my luggage. I'm sitting in the I'm thinking to myself-- [SNAPS FINGERS] I'm thinking, this is so cool. I mean, the positive Reframe the situation. Change represents It actually is true. Oh my gosh. So now we're having You drive with limo Uh, you know, buddy, it's a good I used to drive There's eight hotels I believe, if I been about number seven. It's rush hour. You never would have if you caught that shuttle. But because you I've got an alternate route. I can get you there on time. So the next time you don't look for the shuttle. Look for the limo. Look for the limo. Oh, that's good. Look for the limo. Well, I went and I mean, 5:29, he literally I give the speech. Everything goes great. But the next day, as I'm flying Kind of in that half awake, half of going over what and going over and over in my Don't look for the shuttle, man. Look for the limo. Look for the limo. Look for the limo. Oh my gosh, look for the limo. Well, it just was because this is the When things go on solutions rather than for the opportunity, You got to look for the limo, or Now, how about you? Have you ever had a project that Yes or no. You ever had something in your Your first divorce? Second divorce? Your teenagers? My challenge for things aren't go on solutions rather In other words, Say that with me, nice and loud. Look for the limo. Oh my gosh, that's Now, is that engaging? Did you watch the movie in Yes or no, did you see it? Did you participate in it? Here is the really Where did you forget out there watching And without knowing it, you and you were in it somewhere. You're literally in one You were feeling So I need three people, very I'll point to you. Where were you inside the story? Right there, what do you got? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. DOUG STEVENSON: Was anybody back there with me? Oh, my gosh. Did you get some anxiety? You probably got some anxiety. And how many of you were I have had a lot of people I think, you're listening but you had hate in listening to me tell the story you nuts? Where else we're Thank you very much. Where else? Two more people. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. DOUG STEVENSON: Talking So I'm at the curb, and I So you're kind of seeing that. You're seeing the curb. Where else? Anybody else? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. DOUG STEVENSON: Super shuttle. And oh, my gosh. That sense-- now, was to these scenes Yes or no. Did you feel it? Did you have joy and Did you laugh? Did you feel it? Yes or no. Because you did. You cannot-- this is the thing so compelling. You cannot not go with You cannot not do it. And it doesn't matter And this is the beauty It is a universal language. I have done this I even did this in Japan and people still got it. I have done it in Malaysia. I've done it in Spain. I've done it all over It is the universal language It is behavior. It is not just telling a story. It is showing and Now this is the app that So here's the question. What's your story? And is it worth and making it a little so that you can and turn that into a Because your story can but at the same time it can to go to the next place. But they won't do it if they Understanding a concept does and behavior. It does not get people It does not get people to All right, I'm going to Now, there's got be So the idea here-- and you can see what I'm asking for. The visuals, when you need to make it visual. So I want you right now to all that you would like to be So if you're watching or on the feed, that you'd like to make more compelling, more So just think about You got something? Now, I want you you were experiencing You are in environments, You're in specific physical Those are the environments that Did you notice when it became a What were some of the that you saw me create for you in those spaces with me? Who can give me an idea? You saw a physical environment. What was it? The airplane. So you saw the airplane. Did you see the aisle? Did you see people in front Yes or no. Yeah? You were there, right? So you saw an airplane. What other physical On the phone. Was anybody with me when don't do this. Did anybody get a Oh my gosh. Most people say, I've done that. So if I can create those moments and create those scenes and you go into it with me, and the emotional trigger. What is one other The curb. So I got the curb. I've got the office where Got the back of the plane. Got the luggage carousel. I've got the departure I've got all of So look at your story What are the environments that Make it visual. Make your story visual. Move. Use some space. Make it three-dimensional. That's when it And when you take that Would you agree? Did you go with me Now, some of you out very, very techy brains. And I don't mean that because oh my gosh, do we need When I say to you some of you who are a a little bit more say but I'm not very physical. Here's my challenge. Do you want them to be physical? Do you want them to feel it? Then you've got to go You've got to make it visual. Now, the next piece on Make it emotional. What emotions did you Did you feel anxiety? Did you feel joy at the and I gave the speech? Yes! Did you feel happy when I I was like, whoo, woohoo. Did you go with me on my Because you probably did. You go where I take you. You don't have a choice. 90% of every audience will I've often described this as You don't kind of. You jump. When you commit to telling a And they come with you. And it doesn't matter what You are committed to doing this. It's a mini piece of theater. Now, the next one here is make with every story. And here's where story When you choose your have to say what is the one point that I want to So when you get to you do not go on for sentences about and then you go through No, you get to the I learned was look for the limo. When things don't go Now, that is a phrase that pays. That is part of the storytelling It is very strategic. It is very targeted. I don't get to makes a whole bunch of points. It is very, very specific. It is one app that And that's how you influence You focus their attention. So I want you to see in where it says visualize scenes. As you are creating I don't want you to just keep This happened, and Then I said this, and Then I said that, and And she said this. Then I went over here. That's just telling. And that stays in the head. You need to visualize were in where the and you need to play So now we're going to talk performance techniques. Story strategy. Use a specific story to make Years ago I realized I by very, very are giving very, very dull, dry of very good information. But they put their listeners Have you ever done this Have you ever put your Say yes. I know some of you have. Because it's like But oh my gosh, it's Anybody besides me ever give a three hours' worth of content Yes? Oh my gosh, this is a This is a problem. So I get hired by people all I thought, I need a what I do with these clients so that more people will listen understand what I I want to monetize my Well, I didn't have went on a story safari, search for the right story. I need a story that teaches I help people to make their Oh, here's the story. How many people Got any people with pets? Some of you don't have pets. You've got kids? You'll probably relate to this. Even if you don't have dogs I grew up with My dad was into Irish setters. And we had Irish We had Penny. And as a kid, I always had dogs. And I thought, this is so cool. Because when you're a kid, you But your parents They're the ones Am I right? So as a kid, it's Well, as an adult, realized I want my own dog. So I went out, and I got Six weeks old, just of fat and fur And I named her Jaya, And she was just adorable. She was my best friend. When I was down in Well, about two years into this she got sick. I'd never had to deal with this she was very lethargic. She wasn't eating her food. And I thought, something's Jaya is not good. I got to take her to the vet. So for the first time I took her to the vet. He diagnosed her. He said, yep, she's got a cold. She's a little bit sick. Here's some pills. Give her a pill at breakfast [INAUDIBLE] Thought, so easy. Just give her a So that night at to give her a pill I Jaya, Jaya. I know. I know. Come on. Come here. Good girl. Good girl. Sit. Sit. I know. You don't feel very well. Hi. I know. I've got to give you a pill. What did he tell me to do? OK, so Jaya, I've got I've got to shove this down and I'm going to hold it, and Yeah. Come on. Why are you looking Come on, swallow the pill. OK, what did he say? OK. If she just looks at Massage the throat. Good girl. So did you swallow it? Uck. So she spits up the It's like, this is ridiculous. I tried this three more times. I went through four pills. They cost a lot of money. Am I right? Oh my gosh. They cost a lot of money. Anybody here have kids fussy with their pills? Dogs, cats, gerbils, pythons? So anyway, I was really I figured, who knows I called my friend John. I said John, you've had What do you do? You got any peanut butter? John, do you need Are you asking for me to No, no, no. Do you have some peanut butter? Yeah, I've got peanut butter. Hide the pill in I see some heads nodding. I thought, this is so strange. Hide the pill in But I did it. I went and I got and I scooped it put the pill inside I went over to Jaya. Come here, Jaya. Come on. You want something? [INAUDIBLE] Yes! [INAUDIBLE] Oh, good girl. Well, I hid to pill and the medicine went down. Hide the pill in What is the pill? The pill is all that got in a presentation for the listener's brain And sometimes it's Would you agree? The pill is good medicine. It's good information. And yet it's hard for Would you agree, yes or no? Because sometimes it's I get this. Why don't they get this? Because you're brilliant, That's why. And so when you are coming that you need to put my counsel for you is to hide in the story butter. Because the peanut The story sticks. That story is the to make a specific point. Did you see the dog? Did you see me Did you feel it? Did you feel the saliva? Anybody? So that's story The strategic use of a story I can tell you for a fact. I've put that up on my I now get calls from clients used to come to my Now they come to my website. They watch that video, and they talk to me. That's monetizing your story. That's a million dollar story. How much is your story worth? Now, the next one acting or reenacting The in moments, the acting like playing with the dog, getting off the plane, being being at the curb. I call them in moments. And literally, here's where comes in. In story theater, I take and I go back to when I was and I'm in a present tense Then I step back out, and and I'm narrating my story. And then I step back into a Then I step back out. I'm talking to you. So that's the story theater. Very simple. Emotions. Showing emotions rather The emotional connection is that you don't You get into them. You feel them. You show them with your body. And you do this after you've so you know how to do it. Three dimensions, using to create imaginary going back and a three-dimensional stage. Dialogue, adding like the dialogue that I DeVito, the limo driver, or This is the stuff that So I want you to think and what is the dialogue Who are you having Don't just tell me Do the conversation. Dialogue makes stories awesome. It really makes them come alive. And finally, [INAUDIBLE] branding, using a At the bottom of and this is a a speaker's job is to in a way that motivates people Here's the greatest face in your presentations, If you go in and you the person that is going to take action later on anything from your They're not necessarily going to that their behavior You have to be memorable. And if you give a presentation you're dead in the water. So I want you to think about you've listened to, you've in the last 24 hours where for a presentation. What do you remember? Come on. Give me something. What do you remember Any presentation you've been Somebody give me a specific I need three people. What do you got? AUDIENCE: Feeling DOUG STEVENSON: Feeling Now, was that what I don't think so. So your sense is, oh I am so bored. This is terrible. This is pathetic. This person doesn't get it. He doesn't know That's frustration. That's not learning anything. That's being a that this person doesn't get it. Who can remember content? Yeah, what do you got? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. DOUG STEVENSON: been admitted into a university. In other words, that you're remembering a story about a student? AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. DOUG STEVENSON: You're Can you see that right now? Here's the challenge. I ask you, what do you within the last 24 hours. Nobody raises their there was this It's like, eh, the content This is scary. This is scary. OK, next page. Page five. How to choose your stories. Here we go. How to choose your stories. You start with You start by thinking, what Story is a utility. Story is a vehicle that What do I need a story to teach? You start with a point in mind. That's where you start. And then you go Look for a moment of crisis, So I want you to understand looking for the iceberg moment. When I say look for what do you think What is the iceberg Titanic. You know what the story of It's a cruise ship. It's just a big going from England to New York. And it's just a cruise ship. Without the iceberg, Not really. But with the iceberg, What is the iceberg There's got to be a crisis, So you're always that have this pain, this The moment doesn't have to I want you to think about the One was a story about Oh my gosh. Is this profound? No, it's ordinary, But with craft, it My airport story. Has anybody else ever So is this profound? No. But with craft, it The story teaches to think about something or The story portrays an event that a turning point in your life. Now, here is how you start and go on a Google If you start to search, you say I need a story about integrity. I need a story about innovation. So you start with You go, OK, I'm going to innovation. Ah, I got nothing. Ah, I got-- well you You're doing a Google but you forgot to put some Here is the word you Innovation, where was I living So what you're doing to a specific So you go back to You go back to an address. And then you scan, while I was Is there anything that happened or in that house when I had anything to do No. How about my job when I was 30? What job did I have? What boss did I have? What team was I on? Anything to do with innovation? OK, what about my relationships? I was in a relationship with-- with? And you're basically going to and scanning that moment around innovation. If you don't find Where was I living? 35, where was I living? 40, where was I living? And you keep doing to put search terms in the And that will help you So I'm going to answer a before we end here that hear from everybody. Which comes first, the In storytelling and business, and business, looking from the point of I So I start with But occasionally, occasionally like this airport story and missing the shuttle And after something because I'm a story coming from theater and happens and I'm sitting That's interesting. I thought that the best outcome but there weren't any, would be a positive outcome, Didn't get taxi. Didn't get shuttle. Got a limo. Limo's better. Why would I be disappointed and getting a limo? I should be happy that I And I start playing with the and I go, ah, now I have to So if you've got a story this is cool stuff. What's the utility? What's the point? You have to then go You don't get to tell it if Which is better, personal about other people? Well, let's take a vote. When you're listening to from a presenter, somebody which one plugs you in more? Them telling a story about or them telling a story So personal story, a personal story, who Well that's basically So you just answered You need to be willing to You need to be willing where you messed up Here's the challenge. You are bringing You're bringing wisdom to So you're not saying basically, No, you're saying I It didn't turn out the way I I learned this want to share that so I can spare you some pain. So personal stories are best. That doesn't mean you can't I'm going to share with you Does the story have to be Yes. Yes, the story has to be true. Here's the test of any If somebody walks up to and says, did that What does your answer have Yes, that really happened to me. Can you embellish the Yes. Oh my gosh, yes. Do you want to get a laugh? Embellish. Have some fun. I don't remember when I was If there was a lady whose entire and in her luggage, I don't about that flight. But I fly a lot. Is that true on just that there is somebody who and they've got no idea what it Am I the only one? And so I insert that in. That's an embellishment. But the story is true. That happened to me. So it has to be true, and How long should a story be? As long as it takes I told you two stories today. The airport story was The pill in the was about four minutes long. Pill in the peanut butter story That's the right amount The airport story is a much That's what it takes to do that. Here's a guideline. Three to six minutes. Three to six minutes. But if you think a 30 you are wrong. It's a vignette. It's really not that engaging. It's interesting. But it's not engaging. It's not compelling. You need to look at in terms of what I got that I just have to win. I have to have a It has to nail it. I mean, it's just got to I have to get them I have to get them to I have to move them. Well, if you want to need to be moving them with and personality and an a story theater story. Now, the last one is the point of your story? You don't stick a point I want to tell a and I'm going to stick You have to look at what did When you were in that situation that challenge occurred, So I want you to take that you've got in and I want you to go when that thing the first thing that happened? The second thing that happened? Was there a thought? Was there emotion? Was there an action? And then what did I do? And then what did I think? And then what did I feel? And then what did I do? And literally create a of every thought, every And sequence that look in terms of what Now, when I was at the curb my first thought was, And my second thought You have a keynote to give. Come on, find something. Look around. Find something. So I started to look around, and I looked, and And because my mind I hadn't even seen a limo sitting in front of me. Look for the limo. So it took me awhile to work did I do at the curb. But when I got to the place for-- look for the limo. Good language. Look for the limo. That's really cool. And then you know I gave the words look for I created a Yoda. AUDIENCE: [INAUDIBLE]. DOUG STEVENSON: That's good. Because when you give the profound language to don't look for the shuttle, man. Look for the limo. Then you can react to it. You could do what I call Look for the limo. Look for the limo. You guys aren't doing like 27 And they all work really well and they're cool and they're Is this fun or what? Oh my gosh, I'm keeping The last one is there are for different situations. I'm going to just give you nine There's a crucible There's an imbroglio There's a profile story, and Sergey Brin. It's a profile story. There is a vignette, which is a Not well developed. There's a credibility story. That's a story that yourself, your credibility, in a The client wondering, and what have you ever done There's a credibility It's a sales story. There's a pattern learned a lesson over There's an instructional much more technical, It's got the imagery but it's much more And then finally, Ancient wisdom. A Sufi story. A Native American story. Any kind of a folk story. So these are the different Now on the last just going to give You could just look The nine steps of story that pays, how you But here's what I want If you are listening or if you're watching this on or if any of you would for someone else, or you &quot;The Nine Steps of Story here's what you do. Send an email to me, So D-O-U-G at com. And in the subject line, And I will email a PDF along with an article on the that fleshes it out So today has been an to be on the Google here in Mountain It's a lovely day. Go on out and story on. Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE]