Hey everyone, and welcome to TopThink. Today, we twelve habits to control your emotions. Do you know someone who gets angry, anxious, number of people have trouble restraining their and uncertainty. When something doesn't go their like rage or distress, transforming damaging and embarrassing situations. with someone about a subject you both care to do is make your point, but the other angrier. Perhaps they raise their voice or make What starts as a friendly debate escalates into Why? Because not everyone knows know how something they don't like, many people react volatility is crashing onto their heads. These as if any opposition is an insult to their aren't validating their ideas or because they're Once these emotions start swirling in their They may become desperate to get their way, the people they care about. Only after the dust If you find yourself in a similar situation you prevent your emotions from spiraling out of twelve powerful habits anyone can use to master is simple. By recognizing extreme emotions and decisions when it matters most... and these habits and techniques are employed by highly disciplined muscles, it takes time and consistent effort to everyday habits, you'll learn to control with patience and composure. When you experience an emotional conflict, extreme reactions and impulsive behaviors. you need to wait for that rush of chemicals One simple trick is to close your eyes and the chemicals in your brain will slow down enough but those five seconds can spare you 2. Find Your Roots bubbling up inside you, try searching for the root you might be feeling the way you're feeling. someone said, ask yourself why their comment This habit immediately changes your perspective, from the outside. This instantly puts you in a really causing your distress. Often the source of you can face the actual problem without 3. Sources of Resentment Many of us have a bad habit of stewing Let's say you have an argument with a friend. You instead of expressing those feelings and finding simmer and grow. Over time, you may even lose The longer you wait to resolve these feelings, the This is true of many negative emotions, like can create lasting emotional turmoil, so speak up 4. Name Your Emotions We often struggle to control our emotions because recognize is a swirling cloud of thoughts and frustrating, so we seek immediate relief In situations like this, try naming your emotions. you, ask yourself, "What exactly am I feeling? Once you put a name to your emotions, they become 5. Manage Your Stress effect on your emotional state. When you're thin. It feels like the world is crashing down all emotional outbursts and irrational decisions. state, so make a habit of relieving some stress activities out there, like writing, meditation, regularly, may lower your stress levels, making it 6. Opportunities for Expression because they don't allow themselves to express feelings down and pretend everything is fine until This is when extreme emotions do the most For your own sake, don't let your emotions create opportunities to express your emotions talk with a loved one, or sit down with a mental part of your routine, and you'll begin to 7. Channel Your Feelings Talking or writing aren't the only way to express activities like physical sports or creative and channel your energy in a way that brings calm stressful situation, you might try singing at the like singing, that release your feelings and your interests. That way, you can channel 8. The Empathy Routine try thinking about your situation from their point but it's possible the other person feels the same like you, struggling to understand why they practicing empathy can neutralize extreme emotions Even if you're not actively upset, this is a great Practicing empathy challenges you to reflect and approach every situation with 9. Possess Your Emotions Are you ashamed of your emotions? Too many people because they're embarrassed or ashamed to feel you might pretend everything is okay But this only deepens your emotional take responsibility for your emotions because 10. The Boiling Point you may be too upset to hold those emotions point" -- the moment just before your feelings emotions, get to know your boiling point so that you're almost over the edge, remove yourself from 11. Create Your Mantra it helps to remind yourself what you're working A simple mantra or a meaningful phrase can negative emotions like anger or frustration. but when you think about what really It may take some time to find a mantra that's of mantras out there, but often the powerful A few repetitions of this meaningful phrase can what is really important. Many disciplined people have developed the simple power of their breath. You've to relieve stress or anxiety, but why does The first half of your breath, the inhale, which controls your fight or flight response. impulsive behavior in favor of more logical your parasympathetic nervous system, which affects exhaling a breath of air can pacify negative Whenever your emotions are spiraling out of simple exercise may be all you need to control Thank you for watching TopThink more incredible content is on the way.