- Hi, I'm Josh. And I hope you are JOLLY well ready, Ollie. Because today we are gonna be taking a look from TikTok that you never knew you needed. Wow, I was not ready for that intro. Neither of us are renowned for our cooking skills. Oh, my gosh, what is that? No, no. Stop, stop, stop. Ugh! Oh, it's hit my nose. Take it out. So we need any help that we can get. This is cereal on the go. What? You have a hot flask Some people have banana protectors I mean, not many people but some people. Why not have cereal on the go? Milk goes on the outside, obviously. - You sure? Oh, my gosh. I dunno, I just guessed. - Innate skills. That is literally up to the line. Yeah, milk in first, I've got a few problems with this, That's pretty good. What about the sugary milk? 'Cause you don't get the sugary milk. You didn't hold it in your mouth long enough. That is your main flaw there. Oh, so your mouth becomes the bowl. You have to be willing to sit with quite a full mouth Okay, alright, let's try. Some more swivelling. We're both really sucking on this. Better, sweeter milk. A lot of milk was coming out. It's 80, 90 percent milk - It kind of chokes you a little bit. 'Cause by time you... Oh! Oh, is that the way? That's all cereal. - One shot. I got a mouthful of cereal. That's actually more fun. You want a fun factor? I want a fun factor. This is gonna take us straight into our second item. You may have thought, than to have to pour it yourself? What do you mean? Let me show you, If you pour it yourself, the bottle is the dispenser.... Okay, that's the closest it can come to me. I know what those are, Fill up that milk cup. Oh my gosh! Wow! - I will never pour again. I will never pour again. Open up, open up, open up. Open up. No, no, no. It's not gonna, it's not gonna... Staying on a breakfast theme, an all in one prepare your most British dish possible. Toast n'Bean! Not only does it make beans, A beanarama. Little bit of water in there. Or death juice as toasters call it. Put the beans in, That looks good, that looks good. Down with the toast, Can I point out how much free time we've got right now? You're an idiot. A few moments later. Oh, gosh! Wow. The beans have been... - Heated. The thing is, using a hob - not that difficult. So you're automating a process - That's already not that hard. But that logic could apply to the milk pourer which honestly I got a thrill, Yeah, but there's something cooler about that. Well, it's cool in that you're putting moisture You're living life on the edge. - It's like an extreme sport. You're extreme beaning. It's hot? It's warm. I would say if you want to eat nothing but Beans on Toast this would save you having to buy an oven and a hob. You don't use an oven in Beans on Toast. I don't know how it works. Moving swiftly onwards from a problem Now, Ollie, I present to you a problem that very much - The Butter Cutter. Can cut an entire stick of butter into slices Oh. - Wow. Yeah, that was like dropping a depth charge. Wow. And that just goes on top? One-click butter cutter. That was satisfying. - It's incredible. You can literally... Wow.. that's, that's the end of the slice. I mean, talk about around a minute. That is so cool. That's perfect. That's cold butter, it's already melting. Right, it's already like you could spread that. I am impressed. - I am impressed. Why do you not have that in your fridge? Like literally put the butter in It's so satisfying to use. Also if a burglar comes in your house, pitch black. Sneak up behind them, freeze. Just a bit of butter slaps him Staying on the breakfast theme. I know you like to make some pancakes - I do. - get a bit of shell in the pancake. Always do, 'cause you don't have An EZ Cracker. A what? If any shell makes it onto the plate, - this goes straight into the bin. - Okay, alright. - That was a nice crack. Very satisfying. There is a bit of, Significant portion of shell. - There's tiny micro bits of shell. Maybe you did it too fast. I was too enthusiastic. Maybe you did it too hard. Wait, what? What just happened? I got it, I got it. Okay well, it cracked the yolk. It did crack the yolk, Okay, two imperfectly cracked eggs, I would say. Maybe it's a skill, Turns out it's actually harder to use this There's an egg white separator attachment, - Let's see if we can get a clean yolk. Give me that yolk. Hello! Yolk me. - Look at that guy. That is not bad. - That's a jiggly little yolk there. Happy little fella. The next thing, I didn't even know it was a thing This is an egg scrambler that scrambles the egg in the shell. What? We'll start at the same time. How much you wanna bet you crack your egg just by shaking it? There's definitely air inside this. No. There's no way of doing it. That's why they invented it! We know why there's such an invention. Wait. Under the table. Oh, no. - Stop! Stop, Ollie! To test to see if it's actually scrambled the egg What is the point of this stupid thing? On the egg front, I'm going for the home run. This is the vertical egg cooker. Spray with a bit of oil, So I just pour this in. Yeah, not all of it. Convenience isn't the word that springs to mind but I'm happy to be disproved. Eating an egg off a stick is going to be super satisfying Who needs the word convenience Life-changing innovation. That's true. Oh, wow, look. Look, the egg's rising. I told you. Why is it making a farting sound? - Oh my gosh, the egg is like properly rising. This is a wild ride. This is, this was unexpected highlight. This is a wild ride. Look at that, are you getting that? That is, okay, it's overflowing. No, it's fine. You poured in too much egg. The stick is rising up with it. That is a souffle on a stick, that is. It does smell kind of farty. It's on the farty end. Were the eggs good? Don't yank it out. What the hell? Oh my gosh, What is that abomination? That is not what it's supposed to look like, Ollie. Oh, what's going on? How much egg did you leave in there? What is that? It's like it's coming back to life. I didn't think there was any egg left in there. Where's this egg coming from? Why is it flopping out like that? Look at that, what on earth? It sunk back down. What the heck? From whence it came. Okay, Ollie, the next item we have, I believe, is right up your alley. This is... An automated can opener. Oh, yes. Yes, yes, yes. This is it. Ready? Hit it. There you go. One long press and it's all automated from there. Clamp, seals around the cap, first. Then, the hands go in to find the jar and the opening begins. Oh! My! Gosh! That is incredible, That is so much of a better reaction They 100 percent had this on Star Trek Enterprise. Have we got any more jars? I just love that you don't even have to hold the thing. You can literally set it doing that - It's AI. Literally, that's as good AI as my Tesla driving itself. Boom! That does not get less satisfying. It's incredible. Final item. Josh, can I just say at this stage. Thank you and congratulations. Many have said that but I think today, I may have saved the best till last, Ollie. Wait, the crew behind the camera is nodding. Yeah, everyone that we've we've showed this to so far It's simple. A lot of things call for lemon juice. That is true Lizzie bought a lemon juicer. I think this was invented around Jesus's time and they haven't improved it. Solution to that problem, yeah? Lemon juice dispenser. There is no way that works. Oh, he doubts. - Oh, ye of little faith. I know what you're thinking, People would have done this if it works. There's a screw there. - Give it a nice little twist. It's got some little windows for the juice to enter into. And then a very satisfying little pump. So I cut off a little bit too much lemon. Yeah, quite a lot too much lemon off. But it should still work. Should still work. Perfect spray of lemon juice, evenly spread. You want a salad, bit of lemon juice on it? Spray it over. Perfectly, evenly. Wait, is that actually lemon juice? Spray it into your mouth. - That's lemon juice. Let me get another one. Oh gosh, wow, What sort of lemon magic is this? And then boom, literally. Did you see that? I mean, it's so simple Imagine that with like a cocktail or something, like a G&amp;T, All over my face. Could I have a splash of lemon? Absolutely, sir. Yes, you may. Would you like a lemon spritz with that? Spritz you up. - Thanks, Josh. I feel proud of you. It was a journey finding all these things. It's like David Beckham watching his son play football. He's not quite as good. But he's got, there's a lot to be proud of. Well, thank you. That has been some of the Internet's weirdest kitchen gadgets. Thank you again to Karma for sponsoring this episode. We literally wouldn't have been able to have the Toast n'Bean. It was sold out so thank you Karma for helping us get that. And don't forget to download the Chrome extension and app Indeed, save money with codes and coupons. And in the meantime. See you JOLLY soon, guys. Bye!