-Welcome back to the Deep Discog Dive. Check out my new business card. I've consciously coupled my way to Not that they need much defending anyways. This is Coldplay we're talking about. Everybody loves Coldplay. In fact, I'm going to go my new title, and then finally, the entire internet You guys hate him? Today, we're talking about Coldplay. Let's dive in. [music] -Is there anything I can do -Yes, you can make Chris Martin -I'm so sorry, guys. I didn't mean to cause-- It's not you personally. -University College London in 1996. Two blokes, Chris Martin during orientation week. They started writing songs the next year. When it came time to record demos, and gave themselves In 1998, Will Champion just in time for their first gig That name did not live It was soon changed to Coldplay. That name came from a friend who was thinking of names He had come across the Philip Horky book, He thought Coldplay sounded cool, Later, in May 1998, Coldplay Their friend Phil Harvey helped fund it, the band's manager. Only 500 copies were made, it has since found The impact made by Safety was small, culminated in a September 1998 This show set off a bit of a bidding war Coldplay signed to Parlophone. Parlophone helped Coldplay like the new band's tent See, there they are on the poster, and the famous band, Gay Dad. Their proper debut single, Brothers and Sisters, released in April 1999 we got the band's second EP, What's notable about this one is not only to make it onto their first album, reverb-drenched sound they feature. I'd almost say this is the closest but I wouldn't say that, Actually, get this. The sessions for The Blue Room but Chris Martin was, about Will's drumming. Will ended up leaving but rejoined once Chris apologized. For his crimes, Chris was made to drink Wait, like the Cape Cod drink? I thought people enjoyed that drink. Does Chris Martin hate it or something? Yes, I don't know, It's not like they made him drink, I'm going to be thinking Let's just move on. Now that Coldplay your first drummer timeline, their first album and we sure got in July 2000 in the UK Everybody, I like Coldplay. I think they're good. Even when you might hate them, For some stuff, at least. Thankfully, I don't have to do much is a good first album. The stuff you might not like about This is some good, by Chris Martin's genuinely great voice and a killer ear for melody. Shiver was the first single, but here it's got When's the last time you heard a rock song The interplay between the bandmates I'm talking fun little bass parts I'm talking glistening guitar parts I'm talking Guitar Hero World Tour. Ooh, all of this combined Also, as always, there's a playlist with all the songs Go check it. If we're talking big hits, I know I said a second ago that I'm over many early Coldplay singles Over time, I've learned The music of Yellow is good. That little bend in the guitar hook Then Chris says, &quot;Look at the stars and everything you do, Okay, and? What am I supposed to do A common complaint levied while gifted with a wide vocal range Chris even said back in 2011 I'll say something a bit more charitable. The music of Coldplay throughout does the heavy lifting. I think Chris's basic lyrics help convey to enter their music. I mean, if you were looking at numerous spheroids shining all surrounding you in the beautiful yet would you have &quot;This reminds me of a color.&quot; The point is, it allows just about anyone When synced with the music, it makes for an immediate When the basicness doesn't work-- Besides Yellow and Shiver, there are You're kidding me. Opener Don't Panic is excellent. I vividly remember my first time with how weary Chris sounds, and the fact that it starts The best chord. Spies is a depiction of paranoia Trouble is about self-doubt by a phenomenal combo of Chris and piano. High Speed is another Blue Room EP track, it still sounds hazy and atmospheric, Sparks, Everything's Not Lost, Parachutes is a good record, Sorry, I'm already getting These days, Parachutes is held who don't like whatever this is. Back in 2000, it was and a slow burn in the US. In fact, brief side note skipping on the Garden State soundtrack. That's freaking wild, right? In case you don't know what this is, this movie turns 20 next year, Garden State It's most remembered these days which helped break the shins. -You got to go hear this one song. [music] -Right at the start of its track list Putting that diatribe aside, there was a much darker threat They would soon be compared Coldplay were pegged that still comes up today. Though the comparisons made For one thing, Coldplay within the past seven years. Now, I think these comparisons These are both rock bands they're fronted by men they both started out on Parlophone, aren't not there. The sheer will I had to exert to Subterranean Homesick Alien, you cannot imagine it. These comparisons are also missing Dolores, can you pull up what Radiohead dropped in the US? Right around this time, Radiohead put out an album we are no longer interested in We want to play with our synths Good on them. Radiohead's career and none of that would have been possible There was a need in the market now and damn it, Chris Martin Parachutes and that sudden influx led Phil Harvey To all my Harvey He became their creative director instead, George Martin was the fifth Beatle, He's been in that position to this day. In September 2001, after wrapping up their first tour, In August 2002, Coldplay gave us Check out that cover. It's a previously existing work showing a woman's incomplete head That's cool. Up until this exact moment, a cool-looking bottle of Windex. Sonically, yes, this is definitely The same alt-rock is there, but the piano has now become In the business, we call Lyrically, though, Spies from the first record, here is existential paranoia I wonder what recent events Anyway, Politik was recorded The lyrics show Chris asking people what's actually going on the music is pummeling and sounds, to me, cynical. It's an interesting balance In My Place is a nice single. It sees Chris pleading a partner about himself he cannot control. The Scientist examines to logically deduce The music video's concept The entire thing moves in reverse, Though, there's one thing that nags at me. If you play the video forwards, in a car, it gets run off the road, then lands directly on its front side then his girlfriend flies out. I imagine The Scientist Chris moves backwards, in forward time, Chris spent a month learning how to sing The title track feels with an emotionally charged Chris seeking Other highlights for me include another Radiohead-esque track the closer, Amsterdam. Clocks. Get this, Clocks was added in the game, after the record was done. Chris set it aside as a song but Phil Harvey heard it It is, by a wide margin, It's a song that never fails For real, watch this. A Rush of Blood to the Head Takes all the stuff that worked Rush of Blood was an even bigger success and critically. The album At this point, Coldplay I wasn't sure about it before, From June 2002 to September 2003, to the Head Tour, a tour with their first live album, Live 2003. To close out a pretty good 2003, a cover of The Pretenders' 2000 Miles I've always liked this cover. Good job, Chris. Good job, piano. Plus, Chris Martin got married to actress The next Coldplay album The band then spent the rest of the year they stayed pretty low. Except for a music video from The Nappies. The Nappies, ladies and gentlemen. The Nappies. For any Coldplay haters out there, you can still join my side if you want. There's still time. This new album but like Rush of Blood before it, That's fine, right? EMI's stock price dropped right Imagine these guys In response to people pinning Chris Martin said, &quot;I don't really care about EMI. I think shareholders are Get a load of based comrade Chris Martin. Once the economy had a chance to recover, The piano was the star player welcomed like synths and organs. In fact, opener Square One kicks from the start of 2001: A Space Odyssey. Does that mean we're getting Don't ask for things to receive them. Before listening to this one, the weak link I liked it. It's certainly up there I've heard complaints Honestly, I don't hear it. Call it a matter of hindsight. we've now heard Coldplay songs like this. X&amp;Y sounds bigger than Rush of Blood, may be just doesn't phase me. This time, Chris has swapped Most of the songs have Chris grappling forgiveness or pledging to change by well-made tunes The vocal harmonies The change in downbeat pushing The explosion at the end of Twisted Logic. The beautiful melody of Swallowed This is what I live for. Melodies with a clear purpose, accenting the changes from the overall blend. I'm going to commit murder The Hardest Part has Chris staring and the resulting song is great. It's worth noting at this time Most of them present as normal. Sometimes there's a big screen. Hell yes, man, I love big screens. The hardest part has the band that's giving Motherboy 30. The lead guitar hook on Talk Then I learned the riff Kraftwerk's Computer Love. Speed of Sound was the Clocks of X&amp;Y, by a piano melody. With that said, though, I did say this was the Clocks of X&amp;Y. This is basically Clocks 2. The two songs are really similar. Look at this. Here are their piano melodies They have the same A-B-B-C pattern I personally don't mind more Clocks, what time it is. Can I be honest with you all? If you've been watching me for a while, on music or at least I try not to. I like to think that I've outgrown with music. I try to find the good in just and if I find something then I take solace in the fact that it was I really don't have a place for blind With that in mind, I used Where are my manners? Let me introduce you to this thing Fix You is X&amp;Y's biggest hit Did I mention I don't care for it? If I was making videos in the 2000s, nemesis, and I would've made with terrible visual effects, with the help of the annoying orange, Michael J. Snare. With all that said, a lot of people like this song, Plus, I've learned in recent years isn't musical. The music behind Fix You is all right, I'm a sucker for that guitar part [mimics sound], and those harmonies My issues with Fix You First off that title. Here's some unsolicited from your friendly neighborhood Snare. You should never try to fix anybody Of course, you want support them in good times or bad, but that should not extend to you trying That's their journey in life, not yours. The song was written by Chris My guy, that grief doesn't get fixed. It just gets smaller with time. Aside from the title though, &quot;Lights will guide you home Yes, don't worry Gwyneth Paltrow, and then they'll light you Maybe that's the thing Chris Lower Lows for sure, This is effectively another Rush of Blood consult your doctor first. X&amp;Y sold ridiculously well, becoming That said, critical reception was but most notably, Speed of Sound didn't make it It peaked at number two, because another artist kept Coldplay Would you like to know what artist You know when a generational talent their time. I know I bring up but I'm being dead serious here. Coldplay were denied a UK number one hit, and to their credit, Coldplay about Crazy Frog besting them. -When you release a single and it's knocked off number one -He worked hard for a lot of years, [laughter] -He did a lot of promo. He played [laughter] -We've met the frog. [laughter] -Has it gone to his foggy head. He drives around -Even if you can't stand Coldplay, [music] -Crazy Frog where are you now? -There was no doubt by now By all accounts, they were the biggest rock band a concentrated backlash. Many people saw them as the new U2, Perhaps most famously, the most insufferable band of the decade. The harsh press didn't stop there. Check out this Onion article. Chris Martin claims That's so savage, right? That was a Guardian article. A serious publication made that headline. &quot;I watched a spotty, It was Chris Martin.&quot; Okay, in fairness, towards Chris and the band. It describes an A&amp;R rep seeing them before Yellow and Parachutes took off, to read them for filth? No, I don't think so. There are reasons for this Their portrayal of sensitivity in a genre the wave of perceived as well as their consistent sound I'd like to offer my take a comparison to another About a week ago, Taylor Swift and I saw a lot of people Specifically, how bland she is In their opinion, not mine. How her blank outward appearance and effectively print her own money. Again, that's their opinion, not mine. Don't kill me. I think Coldplay were, still are disliked for that same reason. I like the band, but I wouldn't say in their discography that is challenging, deep lyrical insight remember Chris' own words. But I will posit, to has to challenge us to be good. It all comes down to the value delivered by an artist and it's different Sure, sometimes you want an artist your brain's idea of what music is, well-made songs about universal emotions without her saying, &quot;They're scaring the what?&quot; Coldplay have been chasing since their first Big Fat Noise, a good job of it up to this point. At the end of the day, Isn't that what matters here? Even with a giant target on the Twisted Logic Tour, running with some extra Latin American shows 2006 specifically, saw Chris strikeout Nelly Furtado's All Good Things and later in 2007, Following the tour's first leg, That plus radio silence from the band led but these guys aren't Who needs a child's reflections? This is Coldplay. A month after the baby was born, This new album was recorded The Bakery, and handling like Marcus Dravs, Rik Simpson, and Brian Eno. Brian is the guy who produced Talking Heads Remain in Light, David Bowie's Berlin Trilogy. Sure you won't beat the U2 allegations, in rock music, partnering In June, 2008, Coldplay released or Death &amp; All His Friends. When a young middle school Mike I used to do this with albums. Some of which are among The first piece I heard was, of course, the album's biggest hit, It's sweeping, it's orchestral, Chris is singing about being the streets as a lowly peasant. The main video for it is fine but it's still the same The band mates playing I prefer the alternate music video. If this video used to rule the world, to own. Once I finally had between songs, a bunch. The opener Life In Technicolor was The wash of synths at the start, never fails to tickle me. Lost brings back the X&amp;Y's organs and 42 moves between a slower paced ballad, and strings, and a more triumphant finale. My favorite part is that middle section. I wish it went on longer. For Yes, there was an intentional choice and it helps give the track Lovers in Japan/Reign of Love, from a montage during the Oscars. I then listened to the heck the second for years, It, along with 42 and Yes, represent the start of the band's multiple song fragments into one. Oh, and the last four songs Viva La vida, of course, then Violet Hill. Violet Hill reminds me of Politik and kind-of-sort-of at least Turns out there's a reason for that. This is a mild dis-track towards Fox News. Strawberry Swing inspired by Chris' mother If it's good enough for Frank Ocean then it's good enough for all of us. Then Death &amp; All His Friends, The build across the entire song especially when the guitar and the song reaches But there's a secret man in this mix, It brings back in Life In Technicolor and a humming melody Viva La Vida is great. It's basically all killer, no filler. Even if you believe to reject give this one a listen. Viva La Vida effectively turned The album saw great sales, and their first number one US single The band gave us an extra treat Eight extra songs In pop terms, it's the paradise The track list includes fleshed out as a standard pop song, it's fine. I also enjoyed Rainy Day, and the remix of Lost, featuring Jay Z. That same month, Chris, a man in his early 30s at the time, the age of 33, just like me. He later revised that statement to mean, Coldplay went out on the Viva La Vida Tour About halfway they released a live album Left Right Left Right Left. If you put in a few more inputs, to bring Chris Martin directly That same month, but said it would be stripped down. That would be the last we heard The only new music following Viva La Vida I love melancholic Christmas songs, into that great pantheon. Nice. In June 2011, Chris hinted that the next album title That could mean anything. We soon learned what that M stood for. In October 2011, How did that stripped-back, It didn't. That's right, everybody, because Coldplay have gone pop. Mylo Xyloto is for the band so far. Funny, because this has as Viva La Vida. Brian Eno is even back as producer. Other Coldplay albums sounded giant, but this one sounds giant and some sparkles. Just listen to the first single, Look at the lyrics. This is basically an early 2010s EDM song but it's pretty fun. When Mylo's songs work, Charlie Brown is such an underrated song. You look at that title and you're like, Then you hear it. I adore that little measure in on the chorus. Listen to it again. Paradise was a massive hit, Despite that earworm of [song insert], my favorite bit is the real nice piano Princess of China has not only a feature There are also other songs feelings about them. This really is a pop album The rest is fine. If I had to pick other highlights, and Up With the Birds. It's weird, Mylo Xyloto feels to me but Viva La Vida is longer. Maybe it's a result of the pacing. The peaks on Mylo are like snorting is like a Hershey's kiss. Compared to the mountain, I will take one more quick second about a soldier named Mylo Xyloto There are deeper meanings for those at that level, is about the leader or how Paradise is about the girl Mylo his position as a soldier. However, I don't think you're missing much Mylo Xyloto though critical reception was December 2011 saw the band and I should say now that this is Even as they will continue the one thing most people agree upon Like many other artists, you could argue and 2020s so far has been the concert, Not only do they put on great shows, in the space as well. For example, if you went one of those LED wristbands that lights up and the show in general. That was Coldplay. They were the first major act The Mylo Xyloto Tour ran the Coldplay Live 2012 album Unfortunately, for the guy another tour immediately after ending announced that they would be taking All we got from the band in 2013 was Atlas but in 2014, we got Midnight. I'm sorry, I'm serious, y'all. It felt like a breath of fresh sonic air Here was the band, with each new release, quieting down and wringing It got me really excited in May 2014. It's now time that we reveal Much of this album is colored by the March 2014 announcement and Gwyneth Paltrow's divorce. Oh, excuse me. Their conscious uncoupling. The band has never outright said by the uncoupling, but come on. It's painted on the walls. It's seeped into the foundation. Chris instead says that the album focuses on the lasting ramifications and the capacity for unconditional love, to a div- a conscious uncoupling. In tandem, Ghost Stories is the return had mentioned before Mylo. Even when the band whips out the synths the character of it all feels smaller. The mix of haunting choir vocals The little radar ping accent on Oceans. The slightly jarring guitar solo The processed vocal sample Even the album's proper lead single Magic It's just shocking to see this quirky little electronica pop-out. Then there's this. We've got to talk about this one First, on its own. A Sky Full of Stars is It was the only track It's a giant EDM track to get anyone who was depraved enough It's good on its own. What the hell is it doing on this album? In context with the rest of Ghost Stories, more out of place. You've got this quaint album, reckoning with the Loss of Love, as the penultimate track. I don't even consider it I just think it's funny. It's like if you put Party Rock Anthem Actually no, on Carrie &amp; Lowell. Not even that, on A Crow Looked At Me. The album does close things off well, though. The first half of O On, and it's gorgeous. Just christened piano, stunning. Then the song ends, Then you get to O, which brings back the intro Soundscape on the album as a whole. Ghost Stories is not the first to a newcomer, but it might be If you're so poisoned by Coldplay sicken you, give this a listen. You might be pleasantly surprised. Ghost Stories sold fine a top 10 hit, but reviews of any Coldplay album yet. From April to December, 2014, the band went out Though to be fair, the Ghost Stories tour It was barely a tour. If you want to hear it, The same month after the tour about the next album He even said this next record comparing it Remember, this was late 2014. I imagine Chris envisioned the fruits of a long career, could've done instead About a year later in December, 2014, Coldplay released A Head Full is Coldplay's boisterous return Yes, I get it. It's got that can make you feel Yes. Listen, I get it, okay? Remember how I said Ghost Stories to a hater? Up until recently, A Head Full the absolute last one I would ever play Production across the album was provided Stargate. In fact, Stargate For those who don't know, on a bunch of Ne-Yo, a bunch of Rihanna, and-- I will not hear any blasphemy This is the best single of theirs Who would've thought that a disco pastiche Don't forget its music video either, the power of music thanks to Beats by Dre. Wait. In my script, I misspelled it It's just a giant track about getting with someone you love. I feel like I should grimace at this, without shame, so I can't hate it. That last minute or so cinches it for me. I really enjoy it. It also helps that Beyonce is on this. I can't tell if Beyonce's background part her to get on the song to get Beyonce singing background vocals Again, if it works for Frank Ocean, Everglow feels like the Head Full of Dreams makeover. It even has the supposed subject Gwyneth Paltrow, on vocals. I like it a good deal, It sounds really full bodied Army of One is another one The first half is pretty good. Then the second half, terrible. It's terrible. One of the worst Coldplay songs yet made. I will gladly hear Amazing Day is gorgeous. Birds is bouncy and upbeat. Up and Up is fine to me, but it was a bit of a hit so there's that. When A Head Full It hits like a rush of blood A Head Full of Dreams got It was certainly a commercial revival by playing Oh, you don't remember that? It's probably because halfway off Uptown Funk and Beyonce right the show. That's not even they were good. From March 2016 to November 2017, of Dreams tour. Later preserved via Live The band was surprisingly consistent For example. Did you know this At least if you're going Make of that what you will. Something Just Like This, their collab with the Chainsmokers, was huge. I'll be honest, I don't hate it. Maybe it's because but this feels pretty tame for the band. In July 2017, we got some outtakes in the form of the Kaleidoscope EP. I will take this time to say, All I Can Think About Is You, excellent song. One of their best this decade the sound of The Blue Room EP. Chris is swimming in that reverb, my Lord. Miracles has some cool synths is fine. There's a verse from Substantial Sean. No new music Global Citizen EP 1, with the festival of the same name. Actually, wait. Forgive me. This wasn't released It was released by a band Are we in for a major sonic shift No, it's still Coldplay or at least with African and Latin American influences It's pretty cool to see Coldplay I wonder if they'll do that again In fact, let me check my script and see. What the hell? Coldplay announced a new album, and Everyday Life in November 2019. These days, you can tell what based on how colorful the cover is. If it's really colorful, If it isn't, you're getting Everyday Life is something else. Everyday Life is a double album, a little bit of a mess, but look at the runtime. It's under an hour. When's the last time you heard Coldplay's one actual double album a double album, but wasn't actually. How did they do that? Well, I think it's because the album The band recorded this one primarily to locales all over the world. In spirit with how it was recorded, from place to place with each song. BrokEn has Chris singing Echo an acoustic guitar led waltz. When I Need A Friend is a church hymn Children of Adam is mostly instrumental and a John Coltrane sample. Some people might call it poverty tourism if that is or isn't true, You want to levy the music video for Hymn In that one, they're just in India while drunk and high. To me, to reflect a greater worldview One thing we will not be doing This is the midnight moment Coldplay are backed by this horn ensemble with each appearance. The centerpiece is the sax solo Femi. In fact, Fela is sampled also helped with the horn arrangement. Oh, Lord, that final minute colliding against each other Oh, that's right, Chris First time he's ever done it on record, Speaking of Guns, what a sardonic take on gun violence this I just didn't expect him to speak that prioritizes firearms overall. Incredibly based take Sir Martin. While we're talking in Town is mostly just general about the state of his environment. Until they play a recording from 2013 racially profiling and harassing someone. Imagine being that cop. Imagine your racist tirade on a Coldplay album. Okay. If you were going to be racist, don't, but if you still decided to be racist in some song, you'd hope it would be by like but Coldplay? You were so racist Dude, you messed up. The way the song builds and then explodes right after, Though Trouble in Town does also highlight The tendency of going too general If it weren't for the sample, The same quirk also shows itself In the grand pantheon of Coldplay lead is fairly pointed in the verse lyrics. He directly references the promising lives of young people The chorus, I feel, I'm specifically thinking where the collection of dancers makes me feel like I'm watching Then there's the title track, but I don't mind it here. I remember feeling let down I thought Coldplay, were capping about how everyone hurts that actually fixes As I've gotten older, how else they could have done it. Coldplay have always aimed everyone does hurt. Everyone does cry. Maybe I'm just getting I'm not even 30. Everyday Life can't help but feel messy, but that feels like and not a flaw. It puts forth a positivity, a respect for the world that I think is genuine. It's not some masterpiece, but I respect it. Everyday Life got solid reviews. Not immense praise, but an overall by Coldplay to expand It's also by far. It was nominated for Album of the Year but it was unfortunately a victim of the Recording and thus most people forgot it came out No big single came from the album, but the lack of a tour The band decided not to tour in 2020 an environmentally conscious show. As it turns out, they were trailblazers in that regard also cut down on their touring in 2020. It was a quiet year for the band. The only new music was an extra track Flags. It was in early 2021, a new album. One that was produced by Max Martin. I would say that I'm surprised but turns out Max is listed I would not have been able In October 2021, The most recent Coldplay album In fact, I believe we're ending this dive but that doesn't mean I am going to defend it a teeny bit Because here's the thing, I think it's weak both sides of modern-day Coldplay, and the reserved experimenters. In fact, a lot of Music of the Spheres at Everyday Life If you spend enough time for this album, &quot;We are all one in the universe,&quot; an alien somewhere.&quot; That last one in particular for Everyday Life. Repackaging the same general message a noble pursuit, and after Everyday Life didn't click why the band might want to do that. The issue though, for me, is where any greater messaging the band tries for the masses that it loses Here's a subtle example. Music of the Spheres of Musica Universalis. That's the Greek concept of the movement and the vibrations created therein Musica Universalis would be and they translated it. It's not even a difficult phrase It's literally Universal Music. Let's talk about some positives. Higher Power, the lead single, is great. Refining the synth-pop from Mylo Xyloto I'm sorry could you say [?]. Genius says it's, What is that even-- Oh. It's, &quot;I'm like a broken record,&quot; but it's spelled backwards. Chris Martin, that's not My Universe was I can't help but imagine Some might see the BTS feature If you had a chance to work with them, their fan army as a free extension would you not take that chance? When the ball is in the air right next to not dunk it? My favorite part is that soaring melody which has some subtle vocoding. Love that sort of stuff. However, it does not help It's putrid. I much prefer the practical effects even though I don't really care See, they got puppets made These puppets are canonically known Man, Murdock is looking rough these days. Apparently, the high-pitched singer on Cry Cry Cry of Everyday Life. Chris Martin, why are you retconning Let Somebody Go is reminiscent I think it's fine, That bridge after the second chorus They try to weave on People of the Pride, swearing once again. I don't like that he does it this time. Chris swearing on Arabesque Chris swearing here doesn't work, because the music underneath him &quot;When you need to keep on the road you're I would be remiss if I did not mention They are all named after emojis. Where'd you get that gun? I don't like how they basically come It makes me feel like I'm waiting That said, I do like Infinity Sign That one can stay. If there is one moment where Coldplay it's the closer, Coloratura. This is, in my opinion, since Death and All His Friends. The longest song Coldplay and it earns the runtime. Sure it's got a great melody, long sections of orchestral flourishes, I would love to see Coldplay more involved songs like this. The last thing to mention, we've got a concept record on our hands. It's a set of general stories taking as the spheres with each song representing Like Mylo's story, you do not need to engage with the setup Unless you really want to learn I think Music of the Spheres is In fact, I don't even have to think that. Guy Berryman said as much I see the live clips and the music videos I'd probably be there dancing with the crowd. I'm not above it. You don't know me. As a recorded entity It's replaced Headful of Dreams to a hater. At least check out Coloratura. Music of the Spheres than Everyday Life, the good old Metacritic roasting. Since the album's release, on the Music of the Spheres tour running To say that this tour has been Even though it's not done, it's already the fifth highest-grossing It's also their least impactful tour That time they spent brainstorming Measures were implemented such as planting and even dance floors and exercise bikes There was some criticism with companies like Neste, but an MIT study on this tour found compared to the Head Full of Dreams Tour. That's pretty cool. I'm interested to see how those numbers Coldplay should also be dropping A new album is apparently called Moon Music. Chris called it, Nile Rogers is going to be on it. Coldplay, I'm glad they're around. I'm glad they're still out here trying. I see people sometimes comparing them in the 2000s that &quot;Sold out&quot; in the 2010s. Those people are wrong, the two bands Let's try this. Now, is this song from their album Five Trick question. It's from their album Red Pill Blues, Coldplay, sure, the early records but since Viva La Vida, each record sounds different Say what you will about the results, I believe they are an overall net positive to keep seeing Chris schmoove If you want to get into Coldplay, a very consistent kind of good and I think If you want more Coldplay after that, A Head Full of Dreams, and Everyday Life. If you enjoy in depth looks check out my Deep Discog Dive on Maroon 5.