by him alone, This cartel exports half of the drug in circulation to the United States. His founder, by Joaquin Guzman Loera, by El Chapo, He was arrested and extradited in 2016. He is waiting for his trial on the US ground. Despite the fall of the patron, The business goes well in Culiacan. The capital of the cartel. It is located northwest of Mexico. A million inhabitants were under the control of narcotics. from the local authorities to the local authorities. Only the Army. the federal government to try to restore order, It would still resist the law of the cartel. Our recording was allowed under very strict conditions. Do not film now. Take you in the last minute on the parking lot. before they are carried on board. and you, Open your bag. We are systematically investigated. that is, These are the micros of the camera. We need to do it quickly, There is not much time. The narcissists want to show us that they are the masters of the city, Other than the whole country. A 20-year-old boy was appointed to serve as a guide. It is a sicario. A murderer in the war. We will call him Padrino. Are you always armed? and yes, All the time. With a loader always full. This is a security issue. His mission, First, it is to defend his boss in the event of a military operation. But also to safeguard labs and panels through a highly organized network of informators. here, I'm going to turn the indicators. Try to see what information they have. I have to check that they are in their position to monitor them. The cartel posted indicators on almost every crossroads of the city. Everything is OK, The guy? Everything is OK. Have you seen nothing? OK - Stay on your guards. Some of the indications, Like this boy, They are minor, paid 400 euros per month. The average wage in Mexico. and others. They are undoubted traders. It goes, Is it all quiet? It goes, It goes, Nothing to signal. What is that, Your work? If the soldiers go here, I am informing the boss to protect him. We are watching 24 hours on 24 hours. 7 days in 7. We must go there, Hello to you! You can't stay too long with the indices. Otherwise, people in the neighborhood will see them. We have about 7. It is the bottom of the scale. They are a key part of the organization. They are the ones who inform us. For every car that has an indicator to sign us, The price, It is 10 mattresses. Padrino was recruited at the age of 17, He was a car washer. The cartel gave him a weapon and a salary of 1200 euros per month. In exchange for He has sworn faithful to the drug traffickers who employ him. The boss asks me to leave you. I put you in your car. It is his boss, a leader of the sector, Who authorized the filming. Go to, Shoot yourself quickly. We will not know his identity. Not his face. A few hours later, They remind us to lead us to a plateau. As often, We don't know anything about what's going on before we get there. What are you doing here? We have a guy we have just taken away. He is locked in the room. He is accused of theft. And the boss asked us to go to find him right now. The scene is frozen. Be awake, The guy. You will speak, Yes or not? This man is accused of theft by a resident of the neighborhood that he denounced to the cartel. You will see, You'll go to the table when the boss comes. Do you want me to burn your brain or what? Please please, Please please, We are trying to intervene. No violence, Please please. You have seen, He does not mean anything. Narcotics are terrorizing the people to impose their laws. We ask the prisoners if they want to speak. Hello Mr. I am a French journalist. Can I ask you a question please? Oh the We are talking to you! They say I stole cars. But I didn't steal anything. I told them, I don't even have a car. and me. Let them leave me, I can't be here anymore. I'm tired of here. Police to arrest the thieves. not not, We are the ones who win order. The police, She does nothing. We are making the law here. It is impossible for us to warn the authorities without becoming a target ourselves. We discover the law of terror. Stop filming here. The boss is coming. You cannot cross it. You have no right to know him. But do you not feel like you abuse your power there? What abuse of power do you talk about? Remove the vermine that folds the shit. What will you do with this man? If the boss told me to kill him, I will kill him. For a simple car flight. and yes, for a flight. We don't want a vermin here. and well, Go to, Stop filming. If you are still there, When the boss arrives, We will all be shot. and several times, We will insist on our contacts to try to get this man free. Even today, We don't know what happened to him. Last year, Narcotics killed 25,000 people in Mexico. Only in Cullivan, There are at least three murders per day. 17h30, The bloody routine begins. A restaurant in the city centre, A 45-year-old man has been shot six balls. A 35-year-old man was killed by a motorcycle driver in a residential neighborhood. As always in the neighborhood. The law of silence. and I, I have not seen anything, my friend. You have to ask the others. And you, The lady, Have you seen something? not not, I have seen nothing. People don't speak. The murders may still be here. Do you think they are monitoring? In any case, There are indices everywhere. 8:30 am The next morning. The woman saw her son being murdered before her eyes. They took their breakfast when two men irrupted and shot 25 times. The victim's sister already knows that the police investigation will not allow the murderers to be found. Will you know the truth one day? not not, In any case, If you try to know too much, We will have more problems. People who get justice are very few. It is so. We are used to living this way here. There is no other choice. There is no other choice. It is that. In the Sinaloa, 97% of the murders are never clarified. Our requests for interview with the Director of the Municipal Police remained dead letters. With the permission of the card, A sub-officer agreed to detail us a corruption system, According to him, and generalized. Municipal public security, The first brigadier. 15 years old. Why did I agree to work for narcotics? If you refuse, They threaten your family. Your wife, your children, your father, Your mother and you, You take a ball in your head. That's why I participate. They cannot be provoked. What we do, We protect our family. And when you fall into the narco, You are grateful to them. Whatever the job you are asked for, You are forced to do it. What kind of job do narcissists ask you? For example, When there is a police barrier, They call the narcissists to tell them where they are. So that they don't fall on this barrier. Or then the staff is shifted. We open the road so that they can pass quietly. We also carry weapons. Type of weapons any type of war weapons m15 rifles of Kalash of 50 grenades at each service I have a bonus of 50 euros but Otherwise I have a fixed salary of 2500 euros a month after that it's easy when you're asked for a job you do it even if the narcotics don't ask you anything anyway The brigadier earns four times more money with corruption than with his police salary. The clean police, that does not exist. It is rare. 80% of the staff are corrupt up to the high command. by Kouliakane, A police officer who refuses to work for the cartel can be kidnapped in full day at his home. Last year, Nine officers have disappeared. Among them, The son of Isabella. This is my treasure. The Captain Yossimar Garcia. It was removed a year and eight months ago. My son was in the kitchen. They are preparing something to eat. It was 18 hours, He came back from work. He heard that we were hanging at the door and in the living room. There was his brother. He said brother, There are armed and cagoulated men at the door. and here, I heard the cry opened the door. The Abbey. and then, My son approached. He opened the door. He opened the door and told his brother not to move. The unknown came in. They dropped his head, They caught him and took him. When Isabelle appeared to the police to file a complaint, The supreme of his son would have tried to disguise her. I met the head of my son. Those who told me don't interfere with it. Do not do anything. and silence, It is dangerous to ask questions. They were trying to intimidate me. and they, and the police. And I realized that they had done nothing to get my son back. They didn't even move the small finger. He is so beautiful, My dear. I miss him so much. And I take it on me so that I don't cry. I don't want you to cry. Isabelle is no longer illusion. Yossimar was executed. She decided to recover her son's body by her own means. This divorced mother created a collective family of missing people. They are called the pioneering mothers. Fear of repentance, Some hid their faces. each the week, They are searching for the clandestine fossils of the cartel. They locate them through anonymous calls. 2 balls and 1 pic for the team 1. In six months, The police found 15 bodies. They begin to know how the murderers operate. Give another skin. The earth has been returned. This is a characteristic of a clandestine cave. We have to think like criminals. put themselves in their place. Where could they be buried? For example, Look at the burned tree there. Killers often burn big fires to burn the bodies before buriing them. They find them with the smell. This piece, He feels even more. We all took courses of archaeology and legal medicine to learn about nature. characteristics of human remains. You can distinguish the smell from a calcinated or putrefaced body. Through DNA tests, Sometimes they get to identify the bodies to bring them back to their families. One day, I will find him, my son. The trailers are among the only ones in Sinaloa to dare to rise publicly against the cartel violence. They are also fighting violence. The legal system they believe is corrupt. and today, She attempts a force strike at Kouliakane's court for the investigation of the disappearances to be finally instructed. As long as he does not open the door, We continue to grill. The parents are forced to enter the court. They require an interview with the prosecutor. But it is his assistant who receives them without our camera. He is where, The Prosecutor? He is in his office. and well, by Ben, We will go to the fifth in his office. then. not true, The girls? In order to insist, They get the files of their relatives out of the archives. We are making a point on the personal records. But well, They only read the documents and they ask us to bring evidence to advance their investigations. They did nothing. We are all very disappointed. There is no progress. Justice to the Dead Point. The nuclear police. The narcissists are even trying to control the political authorities. at the highest level. The patron of the cartel refuses to meet us. But they sent a messenger, A 57-year-old leader in the head of 80 sicarios. The message we want to send, Drug trafficking is more powerful than the government. at all levels. We have more money, More of weapons. More of power. We have people on strategic positions placed everywhere. A lot of people. until the government summit. For a million dollars, The elected are delighted. They put all their administration available to us. every month, They are paid a million dollars. and today, They can no longer go back. If a politician deceives the mafia, This politician is eliminated. It is the money, or the lead. This year of election, 175 Mexican politicians were killed. It is a record. For 30 years, All Mexican presidents have claimed to make war with narcotics. yet, The drug baron continues to prosper. They show their wealth up to this cemetery that is reserved for them. Monumentary tombs worth millions of dollars. They are air-conditioned and protected by alarms. for their entertainment, The Narcos have even built a car circuit in the suburbs of Kouliakane. They come here to play with their bowls every weekend. No one claims himself openly in arc. I like to play with words. We are delighted to break down our wheels. Because we have the means. We are kinds of farmers. Because they are expensive, These cars. It costs a cup. I'm going to run my race. This circuit was funded by the historic patron of the cartel, by El Chapo Guzman before his arrest. here, None of the votes dare to criticize the sponsor. He always helped those who wanted to get out of it. He has given work to a lot of people. I never heard that he was a bad man. He helped the people a lot. Extradition of the chief of the cartel a year and a half ago, It is now a succession crisis. The Son of El Chapo. by Ivan Guzman, He opposed his uncle. by Aureliano Guzman. This new war broke out during our filming in Tamarindo, A neighborhood controlled by the uncle. Ten members of his faction were kidnapped in full night at their home. Especially in this house. Now we will see what has happened.