Bogota, capital of Colombia. We are in front The Modelo, There is another one in the city. [Audio in Spanish] We have just obtained authorization in this prison called "Model". We have The director is not there, he forgot our meeting. It must be said that at Modelo, we do not have and we have a lot [Audio in Spanish] It's 10:30 a.m. and the shooting outside the walls, [Audio in Spanish] A minute of gust, then silence. The guards gave us where families were waiting [Audio in Spanish] It was the fifth They did officially, That day, there were only four deaths. The guards did not shoot it was a settling of scores One hour later, to the morgue in this truck. The rumor has already spread Alfonso Balmes was executed. Alfonso Balmes, The other three who had just killed and who were by bodyguards The next morning, sisters, father Modelo National Prison As soon as the funeral is over, I was told he was going to play football. An armed band was waiting for him All of Colombia knows that that is to say, drug traffickers, Three years ago, by producing a report we were able to penetrate to meet an arrested Frenchman at Bogota airport. He had been there for six months, but he hadn't forgotten anything There are four or five guys who "Follow us, follow us." They took my little bag They brought me, I followed them I arrive in a cell There were three or four &quot;You want to sleep in a cell, or you want to sleep on the floor, They told me : You sleep on this board." The board is the sideboard. There are four in the cell. There are two on each side. I had to pay 5,000 francs. When we met him, of what he had experienced a prison shooting. I never saw I had never seen anything like it. A fortnight ago, four hours, They were assault rifles, watchtowers against machine guns, It lasted four hours, Do you still have hope? In a month and a half, I have the possibility No comment. One good thing here is that we can So, no comment. A month and a half later, the Frenchman took advantage of his permission the beautiful one to escape hell. It is following this testimony that we asked Three years of insistence and we ended up getting that of the bosses Harold Cardoso will be 20 years old. He did his military service and decided to make a career there. He is a prison guard and follows at the same time Yes, it's a dangerous job. Lots of things can happen. Mutinies, wars between prisoners. We have to be while the detainees are armed, What do you say ? Weapons entered prisons Do they have guns? Yes, guns. What is this ? It's my baton. To do what ? For the excavations and, it seems, My best weapon is God. God and his baton, the guards do not have guns Today, the one who dominates the entire prison. Harold is going to spend the day there. Only in these watchtowers that the goalkeepers can count What protection do you have? My bulletproof vest, this is the only element Because unfortunately, We work with what we have. There should be a radio for and with the PC, to signal However, we don't have any, They are undoubtedly used elsewhere. There is a huge gap and the reality of this prison. For me it was a shock to see than what I had learned at school, control the prison, It is the inmates who control We're just here to watch nothing more. Monitor the walls vocations quickly run out of steam The reality of Modelo is 5,000 men in the two buildings in the one surmounted by a fence, and in the two buildings The northern district, controlled the southern district, held by the paramilitaries Between the two, the neighborhood which covers the yard It accommodates around thirty All, except one, are bosses There is, for example, who surrendered by the police, Jairo Velasquez Vasquez, considered one I am accused of being the head of the branch for having kidnapped the current when he was a candidate to have murdered I am also accused of terrorism, homicides, and other crimes. Pablo Escobar was whose ages ranged from 10 to 58 years old. At what age Since I was 18. This is normal because in Colombia, My best shot was when he was a candidate A well-conducted operation, pretty, clean, for me. The fact of having sequestered him, and it helped him win mayor. How many people Police officers, Only psychopaths count I think I killed 150 of them. Finally, professionally. In the center of the prison, there is a border where the last shooting took place. The inmates baptized him At the end of this corridor, a crossroads. Everything that goes in or out under the watchful eye of the guards 90 percent of prisoners are They are not nor far-right militias, and they would lose interest if the enemies of the North At Modelo, a long time ago that no director remained The last one to accept the job 32 years old, was promoted two months ago. The hardest part is maintaining There is the right, the left, That's the hardest part. Are you armed? No, I don't carry any weapons. My only weapons are The man the captain salutes of Marxist guerrilla warfare. It is to him that because the deputy commander in the north wing of the prison. It's him who takes us him and his bodyguards, the man in the black hat The door we passed through From there, those who hold 200 guerrillas, who control the buildings At the end of this corridor, because the sub-commander He has not yet been judged, terrorism and kidnapping We must be armed in the prison. This is why my guards The pistols are 9 mm caliber, pomegranates, ready to serve. Are you ready to fight? Yes. We must always no matter where you are, in prisons or outside. The state deprives us of our freedom, it's our only way to survive. The sub-commander leads us at Forces Headquarters the guerrilla who confronts The FARC controls a third of the country At Modelo, their headquarters, Even in prison, and every morning, it's a salute to the flag [Audio in Spanish] [Audio in Spanish] At headquarters, number five of the guerrilla, the most important responsible He is accused of rebellion, terrorism We, the FARC, have That is to say, here, like anything The only difference, That is to say, we control half the prison. We are structured in guerrillas and companies. [Audio in Spanish] This company will ensure during the twelve hours There is a guard post it allows you to monitor The guerrillas but show us that everywhere, they have provided protection It's used to protect a shooter. This is why ? Have you ever used it? Yes of course. The man with the submachine gun As soon as he leaves his cell, he's on his tail That day it was over 20 degrees or any other loose clothing, In the territory controlled by there are several patios, courtyards which are the domains of a few All these businesses are It is thanks to this that we earn our living It is with the agreement There are several restaurants There is even seafood there. I have shrimp cocktails. Oysters ? There are a few games, but it's the phone. They are prohibited and, as not everyone has some succeeded Communication price, Here, it's normal. Cellphones It's easy This restaurant is free, free for guerrilla men, All guerrillas are entitled to it. Even if, when the bosses eat, It's the organization that pays for everything. The food, All we consume is us. The State does not give us It does not ensure our safety. Those prisoners who cannot what they find, That's a picture You have nothing else No sir. The prison administration takes To go there, Only the most destitute come there. There are hundreds of destitute people but there are degrees The one who just opened to us He did it on request who want us to discover, two intellectuals. One is a bridge engineer Both are incarcerated and kidnapping The poorest, They can't pay anything, We see well Those you see on the ground during the day, They do not have A little less poor, Slums In general, a cabin shelters These are slums built because there are no cells. Why don't you have a cell? Because we are poor, And the administration? [Audio in Spanish] A world of extreme violence. However, they had to buy and they pay rent. About 200 francs which they will resell when they leave, You have to pay rent, We have to pay the boss. Could we meet him? No, he doesn't want to. Here, it is the law of silence. Nobody knows anything, Blind, deaf and mute. We only mind our own business. The four in this cabin were The police attribute to them For the moment, Me, I won't let If I'm told to go kill My family will not starve. Yes I did it, What have you already done? Murdered. Here, it's a custom. You look at me badly. If I am armed, We passed who can do Glue, leather, heels, When you are moderately rich, that is to say we can pay and then a small rent, A conduit that leads nowhere, there are some on each floor. They are 100 meters long For 800 francs, you can buy there for the entire duration of the stay. We can also then there is a small rent to pay, How many people live here? I don't know, The deeper we go into this tunnel, Here, we pay rent. Of how many ? Two euros per week. This is the widest place The only exit, It's warmer here It's very hard here. I asked to be transferred elsewhere There is a somewhat special space Subcomandante Alvero Overlooking this courtyard, there are two workshops allowing them Which is surprising, it is that some of those who those held far-right paramilitaries. Inmates from the south come Yes, they are inmates They can come, They don't have the right. Yes. There are infiltrations, as in all armies. They have infiltrators in our house It's a matter of intelligence. On Sunday, The miniskirt is obligatory. Miniskirt and sandal, On Sunday, the population doubles, What are you repairing? My berth, because it is Sunday is the visit. Oh yes ? You have to receive it well. Who comes to see you? Has it been a long time since she came? For marital duty, Don't have the space you need? Your comrade Yes, he already lent it to me, but my wife doesn't like it On June 23, in the middle of the night, 109 guerrillas attempt La Picota is the second prison An explosion caused it's over there Of the 109 escapees, five are shot dead The next morning, at Modelo, of the five dead comrades. The door to the northern district opens He was summoned He is accompanied of Catholic Relief. Father Antonio is the chaplain Chaplains last For two years, between the atheist revolutionary Hello, is the big boss there? Yes, my father. Most of our fighters, are not only Catholic, but also family Little by little, I evangelize Julio. He even asked me and I have already baptized his two sons. The priest gives you No never. My view of the world I have a design I am a former communist. Not all guerrillas come A moment like this is ideal The sentinels Here, life no longer has any meaning, The mission entrusted to me by the church, to give it meaning again. What to say in front and this war that we are experiencing, [Audio in Spanish] The only thing that can unite us, and the dignity of Colombians. You too, the guerrilla, to proclaim freedom. It is still necessary to show For that, Comrades, we must seek freedom For this, comrades, we must continue to unite. We are going to make an eternal Viva When I say comrade Guillo present, &quot;Always present [Audio in Spanish] For freedom, to support our organization, to cross we must fight and collaborate with the enemy. Those who want us to rot Thank you, comrades. His revolver Did he shoot the police with it? In prison, his work tool, My place is outside of prisons. Of course it's outside, but since we are let's continue to prepare for the future. When we are in power, to the problem of this country. This is our fundamental belief. From its fourth floor of the building Commander Julio continues While his boss the sub-commander in charge to more temporal values. One of the prison traders It's a real one, an original model. It's too expensive. No, a million with the ring. 750,000 for the watch alone. I'll give you 700,000 for the watch. It's not expensive, otherwise, I'll do No, 700,000. No, see you later. I'll give them to you right away. 750. No, 700 now. I'm dry at the moment. Each of these tickets, They are new, Obviously, the person responsible enough to treat yourself to some fantasies. [Audio in Spanish] This is Subcomandante Alvero at the gates of guerrilla territory. I'll walk you back here. Beyond this limit, You have to check with the guards Our control For now. After the armored door, refugee guards behind About ten meters further, the one who gives access those controlled Now we are At their head, Carlos, Caracas. In April 2000, the militias in prison and who could no longer bear went on the attack. These images were shot Inside, twelve o'clock 40 dead at the end of the shooting, and became a master the one who came Caracas. A month earlier, a judge had done so It is he who, since then, A group of around 200 men and maintains order there. We are the ones who ensure our safety. How do you do ? We have a security service In this patio, Yes of course. Are they armed? Caracas lies on camera. Everyone knows it here, and, even more, the coats As on the guerrilla side, they control access. There are still guards. There are only two for this block They spend most of their time There are only two guards. Yes, it's unfair. Besides, when there is an assassination, It is unfair, They don't control anything. What can they do? It is sad, Caracas agreed On his floor, they have all been redone Do you live there? Yes here. A little over a year. Yes, a lot, Are you in high demand? Yes a lot. I have a lot of work, When we have all that, find solutions for everyone Indeed, the man who seems to settle He has the means. For example, Behind these bars, It is guarded by a man from Caracas, He's our bastard. We lock people up there The insults, the thefts, the debts. Thank you for fixing my problem. You have to let me out. Sunday is the visit I have to wash up for the visit. Let me go out. Okay, I'll fix that. When we entered there, there were around fifty Fifty, Are people sleeping up there? In the hammocks, [Audio in Spanish] What's in there? It's food. It's good ? How is the food? She's bad. What's the worst here? The crabs. In the courts of the extreme right, there are poor people However, everything is not Here, we did some work, and the money to implement it. It's the poor people's dormitory. How was it before? It's a roof, Who financed it? We are our organization. Here, all the progress, We come from the street, Here, the administration In the program there are also leisure activities. There is a football tournament We organized it. We discover by following it who financed even telephone booths, We contacted the company It's a household appliances store, Who does it belong to? He won't tell us He won't tell us either that he controls in the area. There is everything here. It's like a small town, In prison, it's the same. All that's missing is the bank. Yes that's all. It is not with these income alone that Caracas can finance Here, we are going to put tiles. We want a beautiful presentation, How did you do it before? We built toilets, Before, for our needs, we had to do and urinating in bottles. Here, we respect Caracas. At their beginning, the militias by big owners. Today, they control With areas of cocaine production, the militias no longer have The renovated corridors, This is Caracas. Antennas to receive The luxurious cells, even if it's him again. We want visitors, with an idea of change of a total change Among those who were able to benefit this man, convicted of fraud He had time to learn We must avoid having relationships accept the arrangements he proposes like buying tickets to give money for floral decorations. They take money from us, The worst, that of the guards. They are the guardians They get rich The guards are complicit Normally, between 12 p.m. and 2 p.m., We can't go but when an assassination is going to take place, the doors remain open They reappear later, There are 150 guards, they are 23 years old on average. The director who preceded two months ago, accused of having to encourage escape [Audio in Spanish] We fight against corruption Staff must be aware We see the corruption, but the problem is that she comes It's us, the executives, In the southern district, and its far-right militiamen, Only those who can pay have access to it, Around this place, You can find everything there, but here, there is also quality. Strawberry juice, blackberry juice, banana, Traders are prisoners Most are Colombians, The pastry chef comes from Europe, and bought this bakery What's her name ? For what ? I don't know. We bought it like that. The baker's neighbor, he is the best restaurateur Giancarlo, the boss, is Italian, which allowed him He says he stayed and got arrested here We make lasagna, We do everything, all the dishes. There are dishes that we make Sometimes we are asked for a steak The daily special is 40 francs which is expensive here, but you have to We have garlic, thyme, If we're missing something, and they deliver to us. Giancarlo, the boss, 15,000 francs per week, There is no tax inspector here. Yet we pay taxes and he who perceives them, This is Caracas. Do you have the keys to the hallways? Yes, I have all the keys. Those in the hallway, I have them all. Giancarlo lives upstairs He says it was he who did or at least that he financed it. He shares it with another inmate. This separation, without disturbing my cell neighbor. To fit in, I also have Rai. [Audio in Italian] Here you don't think, We don't think about detention. We are tired from work. I'm on my own. I don't need to be sent I earn enough and sometimes it's even Psychologically, Honestly, I prefer to be There you stay you go out two hours a day. You can not do anything. The only thing they do, Here it's a paradise but not for free people. Like all paradises, The almighty live in the high security area. One of its occupants is not here He is one of the leaders Juan De Jesus Pimiento, the boss of Caracas, On the other hand, he will never recognize that many executions [Audio in Spanish] Death is always present in the hallways, As if she wanted The organization's investment Our ideology, discipline, order and work. For us, work is the foundation Militias are an organization and who agrees Facing us, there is the left an ideology which is based On the one hand, there is work, and on the other side, Two weeks after this interview, It lasted 12 hours. When the police and the military they discovered 25 dead. In Bogota, many say that display of his power. Others say, on the contrary, which triggered and that the men of Caracas