We are witnessing how a car can be made for every minute that passes, from how metals become auto parts, to how quality control gets more specific. It is simply fascinating to see how a vehicle that we use every day is produced. Today we came to visit one of Nissan's plants in Aguas Calientes, Mexico, to learn about the process of making a vehicle practically from scratch. This operation is simply fascinating. State-of-the-art technology, one of the most modern factories in all of Latin America. To give you an idea, in this plant alone, which is the A1 in Aguas Calientes, more than a thousand vehicles are manufactured every day. More than 5,000 people work in the facilities we will be visiting. Undoubtedly, a visual delight for every engineering lover and a great eye opener for all the curious. So, come on, the Nissan plant in Aguas Calientes, Mexico, one of the fastest and most impressive in the whole world, isn't it expected? Let's hit it. We're already on board a vehicle. Here they're giving me a tour of the two plants. Wow, it's super impressive that from the front alone it's about 2.5 kilometers long. This is practically a city. This is where we are coming to train Nissan people from all over the world, from South America to Asia. This is one of the merest meres on the planet. Here you have one of the largest Nissan training centers on the planet. These are called Global Training Centers, centers in which the so-called Global Masters are trained. They give courses on everything to workers from all countries. Right now I am learning the master technique to be able to paint properly. Check this out. I've already got my gloves on, the whole thing. So, the safety is this. You have to hold the hose, the paint like this. My fingers have to be positioned like this. And on this screen, basically, they tell me the order and the hand position that I have to follow to be able to do it properly. So, like this. We start here like this, we hit it like this. Then, we lay this down here, lay it down like this again. And let's go diagonally down. And this way you're going to paint like a master. They have this model car in which we can see practically all the electrical workings. All the wires that connect to every light, every horn, what if the stereo, what if the turn signals. Everything is here visually so that the master trainees can eventually know what might be going wrong with a vehicle. For a car not to be rattling and practically falling apart as it rides, it needs more than 3800 spot welds. This part teaches the precision and millimeter strength with which you have to work in order for these points to work properly. So, check here, it basically works like this. You grab the corner that you have to stand on and right next to a point, and now yes, and it goes down. That's perfect. There it is. To get it out I have to wiggle it from left to right, it goes out and then basically, in order to close it, I stand here and I have to hit it with just the right amount of force to get it closed again. And this way Mira, they're assembling them, they're putting them together. No man, how precise this is. And they have simulators for everything, from learning how to weld to learning how to use a forklift. You can see my friend here, very concentrated. First here in virtual life, before real life, when they have to transport tons and tons of materials. But look, I personally have learned this before by playing video games. Gta trained us for life. Now yes, for the manufacturing process, we start in the stamping plant. In this hall that we entered, about 30% of the parts used in the vehicles are manufactured. And it's really fascinating to think that it all starts with these metal coils. Each one weighs 15 to 20 tons and from that it is melted, molded, and the necessary procedures are done to make it an important part of an automobile. We are seeing how car doors are made. It's amazing how they take the massive pieces of metal, huge presses shape them, then suction cups that can lift tons, lift them up and transport them to the next stage, where all the waste is cut, it goes straight to the trucks so that this material can be reused. And then, masters, manually, sand the doors to make them smooth. It is incredible, it is amazing to see the speed with which all this comes out. Now we are in the body plant, where we are seeing how 460 robots are all working together to build the bodies of the cars. So to speak, this is where the metal shell comes out, which then has to be fitted with tires, seats, electrical operation, and so on. It's blowing my mind that every 47 seconds a complete car body comes out, ready to move on to the next stage. The robots work very efficiently, it's almost like watching a synchronized dance performance. Just in this line we are visiting, since its inauguration date, 5 million vehicles have been produced, among which currently highlights the production of the famous Nissan March, Versa, Kix Play and the new Nissan Kix 2025, which is one of the most anticipated vehicles, beautiful, divine and I am delighted to be able to see how it is produced from its roots. Throughout the plant there are different areas known as &quot;zona tranqui&quot;, in which there are tables, refrigerators, microwaves, soccer tables so that workers can come and relax for a while. As of the date of my visit, there are 57 in the plant, but new ones are constantly being opened in strategic locations. As efficient as the 400-plus robots are, of course there has to be human review. In this part, the specialists are checking, pulling, making sure that it has assembled well, that it closes properly so that it can move on to the next phase, already well checked. We now move on to the paint shop, where, of course, they are in charge of painting the automobiles. Here we can see the steps of how the vehicle looks when it arrives. This completely virgin sheet goes through different steps, different layers, until it is already well painted as it is going to be sold and it even sounds different, Calen. Finished like this? And so on when it arrives. In the same way, here we put layers so that water, dust, etc. do not get in so easily, so that it looks nice, but above all so that the vehicle is protected. We move on to the assembly plant, where the already painted, already assembled bodies are then fitted with parts such as the steering wheel, the lever, the clothes, the seatbelt locks, etcetera. Here we can see that much of this is human labor. A lot of specialists are checking that everything is in order and can complete their work much more efficiently with the help of these automated vehicles. Look, it's amazing how they know where they're going, they know exactly where to move, they know which line to follow. Look at this tremendous one. So, what happens is that these vehicles are equipped with tools and parts that the specialists have to work with and this saves a lot of time. A worker does not have to be here: I ran out of such and such a piece, I have to walk there and back, no, mi carnal. Everything is like that, coldly calculated. One of the parts of the process with the most quality controls is, without a doubt, the engine assembly. Here we can see how the masters, with the help of more than heavy machinery, are lifting the very heavy engines, placing them in the vehicle and making sure that everything is perfectly matched. There is not the slightest room for error here. Without the engine, of course, the vehicle won't run. And after all the process we have seen, the vehicles now go to the tester area. Here we check that the tires are well placed, that the sensors are well placed, that all the lights work properly, as well as all the electronics, that no water gets in, and so on. They're going to let me, in fact, get in a vehicle so we can do this. Are you ready or what? Of course I'm ready. Good old Edu here is going to.... Are you going to drive or am I going to drive? No, I'm driving. Good Edu is going. And I'll explain what we're doing. I'm going to ride shotgun and Edu will explain it to me. I'll ride shotgun here. This is already a new Nissan Kix 2025. What excellence. Come on, let's get in. We have to put on special gloves for this so we don't get the vehicle dirty. And I want you to check out how... Good old Will here, cameraman, he's a pretty tall guy. And I want you to check how my brother fits in the back. He told me: Luisito, we have to emphasize this, because it is spacious. So, come on my Edu, let's give it to him. This is to pull and start the equipment. It is a team of free rollers. As it is a dynamic test, we have to raise our vehicle from zero to 120 km/h. This is to guarantee in dynamic the possible failures that it can generate to avoid a claim to the client. Of course. See how this screen is telling Edu here what has to be checked. So, it tells him: Press the button, check such and such a thing. And with this cable that we are basically plugged in, it tells us that everything is fine. Now we have to reach 120. See, we are starting. There we go to 70, 80. Oh, the big one! There it is. Confirm, interior lights and exterior lights. There it is. There we go, there's the speed. Hello, Borgo! Wow! How exciting. We're going so fast, but we're still at the same time. See, there it says on the screen that we're okay, we're okay. We're ready to move on from here. Hey, what a wow! Truly, what technology! What an exciting process. Look how much fun it is. A very important and very entertaining area. To check the hermetic seal, it is very important that all the vehicles go through these so-called shower tests, in which water is poured on the cars from all angles, with great force, a lot of power, to make sure that not a single drop gets in, that it is well sealed, that it will withstand even the most aggressive storms in real life. Once they are assembled, the vehicles go to the Vehicle Evaluation Standard (VES) area. Here we can already see the new Nissan Kicks 2025. Wow, it looks great, doesn't it? I love that it is two-tone, I love the details, the rims, the interior not to mention. Here we say that quality is assured, that everything is there, but look, that not even the most cantankerous grandfather can complain, that everyone is happy. This little detail works well, it works in order, the screen is playing well, the sound system, all those little micro details so that they come out well, but very well ready's. And of course, one has to be protected with gloves and everything so that they do not come out even with a minimal detail like a fingerprint. We have already seen how vehicles are produced, we have already seen how the collective work of thousands of people results in a ready to be sold. And now we have come to the test track, to the vet, to be able to drive and test this beauty, the new Nissan Kicks 2025. They have already been telling me a lot about the vehicle, wow! Beyond the fact that it is beautiful, that it is very striking, that it has new clothes, that the interior is stunning, it has a new moonroof, that is, a very large panoramic roof, specialized Bose sound, which literally has speakers here, so at the height of your ears while driving, assisted driving method, etc., etc., among other functions. Let's go with the engineers of emotion! And now, seat belt on, safety first, and then let's get going. So, do I have a speed limit or not? 140 is as fast as I can go. Okay, directional, safety first. Let's go! Hey, how exciting. I mean, am I one of the first Mexicans to drive the new Nissan Kix 2025? Yes. Wow! I feel so lucky. For the super-extreme curve, what do you recommend? Downshift it to speed or the other way around? We drop it down to 70. I'm holding it. First time I've ever done one of these corners. Oh, you can't even see me! Wow! How exciting. I made you sweat, didn't I, Duguin? I kind of did. Yeah, me too, actually. Well, look, I'll tell you, it feels very stable, actually, the vehicle. In fact, the fact that you can't hear the sounds of the street, that nothing is heard as... It's more than proven. It feels like it pulls very nicely. Yes, it is a very nice experience to drive it and I feel, really, comfortable, modern. I have my multiple screens here. No, honestly, what a great car. I feel pampered, I feel in luxury. Wow! How well it handles, I loved it, I felt. Pampered, how nice it sounds, how comfortable everything is, it feels very technological. Not for nothing, this car is exported to more than 70 countries, manufactured 100% proudly in Mexico. It's a great car, it's a great car, and its quality and results prove it. What a great experience this has been. I have been delighted to see how the teamwork of thousands of people has resulted in a product of such high quality. It is not for nothing that Nissan has been the leader in sales in Mexico for more than 15 years. It is well said that it is in the DNA of Nissan engineers to dare to do what others do not. This is the clearest example of that. Do you want to add anything? I'll read them down here in the comments. Thank you so much to all the people at Nissan for having received me so warmly. And thanks to you for joining me in one more adventure. See you as always, you know, in a few days with a new video. Good bye.