Americans seem more stressed before. 87% of Americans said that costs of everyday goods is And that's one of the that we have seen in the Four in ten Americans say negatively and the state of Money is a universal financial standing. Poor mental health not only overall well-being, but economy. Workers mental health day a month less in total income each Money touches every part of It's modern day survival. I felt hopeless. I was I didn't really know what It's affecting some Statistics say that 75% of money. One of the biggest how are we going to build So why is money so stressful And what can Americans do With the cost of living are experiencing financial Something that comes up time Americans about their Essentially, it is the on an ongoing basis. So trying to pay for emergency savings and debt. Those three issues are at concerns. Tawnya Schultz and Lea coaches after they financial struggles. I was in debt off and on all thirties and around when I $28,000 in debt. Even someone who has a has their own personal I was still figuring out to be in this corporate for sure led to lifestyle creep. I was in this debt cycle of paying off debt, getting And I was just tired of get out of it or feeling have debt. More than 80% of Americans a significant source of Certain individuals are comes to concerns about Between men and women, there they processed it. We had more women tell us affecting their mental it affects their mental I felt like I was at a low and where I wanted to be, in life, I felt like I didn't have any savings. I was living paycheck to In a lot of ways money is a stability. And without it, anxious about the future. Latino and black adults were money was a significant than white and Asian Especially coming from my My parents didn't know how system. That's why I even myself saw the stress my parents and help protect them, as community and providing finances that are Many Americans don't feel financial future, with 41% miracle&quot; to be ready for I think the problem in there has been this so the risk of being been shifted from others What can you put on that The cost of obtaining a in the public realm borne We know where that's been for retirement was often employers when they That was shifted to in 401(k)'s. Health care has become That's responsible for one economy. And consumers and Americans say they're on spending. More than 50% already cut back on dining reducing their spending to rise. More than 75% of adults said prices will force them to choices. Even higher income $100,000 per year say they considering cutting back on People need to have a sense And so when the economy is greater likelihood that they can accomplish their objectives. Americans are making a financial stress and Forty-two percent of U.S. adults say that money mental health, with 28% their finances daily. Many Americans tell us that financial stress are as bank accounts or making money, thinking about money It can feel unavoidable with travel plans, holidays, All these things are really concerns about finances. Sometimes dealing with financial problems. An April 2020 Credit Karma respondents said that made them impulse buy. I was sad so I would shop accumulating over $30,000 And I had to figure out how that off. Things are getting way more experience things and we And so in order to provide was getting serotonin I started drinking more and spending more. So you start mechanisms because you're stressed in life somehow. And so it was leading you didn't want to be on, but I I felt trapped. Mental health issues can for a person's overall There is clear evidence that physical health. We typically see stress One are physical symptoms, grinding headaches, stomach The second is emotional So that can look like difficulty sleeping, patterns. And so when those unmanaged, that's where we and emotional consequences. Many people struggle with difficulties, and it's carried alone in silence. And in turn, people go to financial difficulties, them in their isolation. And that isolation and that people facing these to experience suicidal suicide attempts as a way problems. While there are many forces people's control, such as there are steps Americans help themselves feel more Experts say the first step around money. I was constantly looking for this situation? Because you especially nowadays. It's so easy with the We're bombarded by it every I'm like, There's not There's not enough money. So mindset and that like fear Raised financial anxieties. Myself and I had all the action on my day or not But yet, because of my the environment I was in take ownership of my realness of my debt. There are experts, such as who can help people deal as well as make a financial A money coach essentially is have someone by your side accountable and provide you same time with guided reaching your financial I think the biggest reason finances because so much of what we have in a tangible So people tend to relate markers of success numbers their worth as a person, difficult to deal with especially seek out help It's also important to health. What is happening to us It affects us physically. Also, if you're not anxiety well, you are job managing blood pressure chronic conditions. I was kind of go back to the sure you're eating healthy, sleep, that you're staying staying socially connected. The concept in mental health step is building hope. We need to see that there's that things will get And they usually do. Invest in you. Ready, set, grow. CNBC and acorns.