amna: President-Elect rob has hit the ground running announcing several key cabinet appointments that offer a glimpse of what is to come in his big -- in his administration. Republicans have secured the house giving them control over congress and the white house. We turn now to the analysis of brooks and key part, David brooks and Jonathan Capehart, associate editor for the Washington post. A little news I want to share with our viewers. We have another appointment. Caroline Levitt who was his trump campaign national press secretary will be the white house press secretary as well. I want to ask you about more notable nominees. Here is a look at some of the names. Marco Rubio, secretary of state. Matt Gaetz, attorney general. Rfk junior, health and human services. Kristi Noem, homeland security. Susie wiles, chief of staff. The department of government efficiency, Elon Musk. The transition is moving so much faster then the previous one. What do you take away from not just who is being named but also how quickly. Reporter: They either did a lot of pre-preparation or Donald Trump is riffing. It could be riffing. It may be him going with his gut . As for the tone of the appointments, I have had a roller coaster week emotionally. At the beginning he nominated Marco Rubio. Pretty good. Michael waltz, national security advisor. A professional. John Thune. I'm feeling like you go to the dentist and you expected to hurt and it isn't hurting. Pretty good. But then comes Matt Gaetz, root canal. And then rfk junior, another root canal. It got more crazy as the week went along. Elsie gabbard gabbard will be had of intelligence and she has never had an intelligence job. She has never really run anything. Like Pete running the Pentagon without much management experience. My only conclusion is a he sent these agencies to be agents of chaos. That is the core message I take away. Amna: Jonathan? Reporter: Root canal without anesthesia to be clear. Donald Trump is the most predictable and easy to read politician I've ever had to cover because he projects, he is thin-skinned. He told us he was going to do this. He told us -- rfk, you should be the head of HHS but it is crazy. But he is following through peer he is putting in loyalists, people that will not tell him no and also people that believe in what he wants to do. You called them agents of chaos. A lot of people have come to Washington to wreck Washington. Now they will get into the federal government and rec it from the inside. The toughest vote the senate took was the one that elected senator John thing as majority leader. Why? Because it was secret ballot. Every vote they will take from now on will be for public view. They will have to put their names to saying no to former congressman Matt Gaetz and say no to rfk junior cured I don't think they have that much courage to do the right thing and say -- no, Mr. President. But if they do have the courage to say no to Matt Gaetz and no to the president, I actually wonder if naming Matt Gaetz was a chaos play. Todd Blanche -- amna: Meaning to distract from other things? Reporter: Sure but Matt Gaetz is -- why does the word I'm looking for? Toxic and unacceptable for the job. But Blanche who was Donald Trump's lawyer in the hush money case was named the deputy. Correct? Matt Gaetz moves aside, put in your own lawyer. He is infinitely better. He is an actual lawyer, respected lawyer that went to work for Donald Trump. I could see that possibly happening. Amna: That is a real strategy. Reporter: It is Donald Trump so maybe I'm giving more credit than is due. Amna: What is the election of senator John thing to be majority leader voted by his peers. It is a huge shift away from Mitch Mcconnell as a longest-serving leader in U.S. History but it also marks the rejection of Rick Scott who was also running for leader and who is backed by Elon Musk and not other voices. -- And other voices. What does this election -- what does this nomination say to you? Reporter: These leadership elections are all about relationships. There are 50 Republican senators and it is who they feel comfortable with. John Thune has been in the senate for a long time. A normal Republican who knows how to do the dance. I thought some of his skill was on display this week when he was asked about recess appointments. Donald Trump has talked about doing these appointments without senate confirmation. It was on fox. He said -- he handled it skillfully. He said, I'm open to anything but there are barriers to doing recess appointments. You have to have all the Republicans vote without a single dissent. He wasn't saying no to Donald Trump but he wasn't saying that the process will take care of this. He is not endorsing them. He is saying there is a process. If the Republicans want to use the process, it shows that Republicans in the senate are kind of normal. Amna: Do you think Matt Gaetz is the only one they won't go forward with? Reporter: And rfk junior is clearly unqualified. One quick thing. We live in Washington and are surrounded by civil servants. They are nonpolitical and do their job. I've had many conversations with people in that role that are patriotic, work 60-80 hours a week and want to do their job. Wonder if they should quit, will they get fired, should they hang on until retirement. There is a trauma going on in the civil service. These are patriotic Americans that want to do their job. And you see them thinking -- I should get out of here. Amna: I'm hearing some of that from my sources as well. Reporter: And also because of schedule, an executive order that Donald Trump put in place just before he left in 2021 the president Biden rescinded but it is part of project 2025. The civil servants and the folks we have been talking to are worried about schedule being revived and then being put in a position of having to choose and then being fired. Amna: I also need to ask about the Democrats because there is deep soul-searching going on. We asked jb Pritzker earlier this week about who is the leader of the democratic party and he said there really isn't any one person he could point to. Hakeem Jeffries told me yesterday the Democrats are still processing their takeaways from election day. How do they move forward, the Democrats? How do they work with as they say they want to man thy have spent years calling a fascist and a threat to democracy? Reporter: When Nancy Pelosi was speaker and I think it carries over with leader Jeffries, it was disagree where we disagree and work together where we can work together. Wherever there is common ground, let's find it. I think Democrats have always been about there are problems and we want to fix them and let's figure out how we can fix them. The governing piece is the V some not worried about. It is the leadership of the party and how the party learns from the lessons of this election and moves forward to the point where in the midterms in 2026 they can have a reversal of fortune. I think the party needs to do an autopsy on what happened and what they can do better and what they should do more of or less of. The one thing I don't think they should do is run away from efforts and things they have done in the past to respect -- to honor the dignity and respect of people who are looking to their leaders to protect them. Amna: How do you look at it? Reporter: These election results were not expected. If you were to have asked me if Kamala Harris would do worse among women voters then Joe Biden that result would have surprised me. That upsets the way a lot of people think the world is going to work. Take some time to think through this. The one thing I would say not to do is respond to every shining apple. Donald Trump will do an outrage du jour. And this goes for us in the media also. We know it did not work for four years in his first term. Don't get into the tit for tat here tried to rise above and have a vision that is somehow bigger than Donald Trump here at amna: David Brooke and Jonathan Capehart, always great to see you both. Thank you.