Wireless communication is awesome! wirelessly control the speed of your electric speed of your drone or you can open and close Generally speaking, we use wireless communication it dozens of times in previous projects. the WiFi connection using a router as most things; but the response time and more That is why I sometimes tried out other wireless nRF24 modules and so on which all required extra Recently though, I realized that with the of all my WiFi projects, you can also use the supposedly easy to use, fast, comes with a great So in this video I want to put this (for me) previously utilized techniques and ultimately walkie talkie with it. This video is sponsored by Elektor whose bi and I will be using their Walkie Talkie prototype Elektor for a long time now and tried out some want to read their awesome electronics magazine the coupon code "greatscott0550" you get a 50% green aka digital subscription. And if you are through their store to maybe find an awesome DIY that we developed together and that is currently Now first off, let me tell you that a With it you can send little or big data from one the internet which generally speaking is awesome. talk to one another since we need And I think everyone knows that the range of limits the range of our wireless system. WiFi connection and transferring data takes a not ideal for small projects consisting of for data to one another over a bigger distance. garage door opener or more generally any Now of course the ESP32 boards also come problem as well as the slow response time. 15m is not ideal for many applications. extra hardware at this problem and like mentioned But to keep it cheap and simple we could also and uses the same frequency band as WiFi. to one another in both directions and you can even All we need to address the correct one is its hands on by simply uploading this code here, So for my first test setup, I got an and a push button at the transmitter side. codes included with the Arduino IDE which are And I got to say that for me as a non But thankfully I found a great tutorial quickly wrote myself a transmitter code of the receiver as well as a receiver code. by pushing the button on the transmitter side, the data over the serial monitor which means success. LED is super short and the range was also way but before getting to a proper range setup with some generic 433MHz RF modules. it can get and my range test idea is that long as the transmitter is in range, but stays on I programmed pretty much the same example for the receiver LED stops blinking completely So time to place both transmitters walking away with the receivers. RF module connection started to struggle constantly receive data up to 110m which I by So yeah at first sight ESP-NOW seems to programming for it is not super simple. to all other wireless communication links to all videos are in the description, then you simply need no extra hardware for it. a one way walkie talkie and I think this need to constantly send over quite a Now according to the information can do 1Mbps of data which should be plenty. be 250 bytes, if one packet is lost then and the ADC and DAC of the ESP32, which into a digital signal and vice versa, are not the What I am trying to say is that the but we will see what is possible. electret microphone amplifier circuit By supplying 3.3V power to it and having you can see that the circuit successfully And since the max voltage never exceeds 3.3V, converter of the ESP32 to which I connected the Now for the receiver side I grabbed myself with a speaker whose power lines I also input to the digital to analogue converter And that was basically all the hardware we need. and oh boy I was not sure how to pull this off. Elektor already created a similar project quite closely for my own use. master and slave code, it seems like the the walkie talkie basically works, awesome. some interference noises and the reason for that that we share the power lines with the microphone To solve this problem we could integrate testing I powered all circuits with you can hear that definitely helped. not high definition, but I think you And I was even able to move 10m away from the audio quality, which I would say is not bad. wireless protocol is pretty awesome and I projects if I knew about it earlier. And with that being said I hope you enjoyed If so consider supporting this show offers in the description. subscribe and hit the notification bell.