Do not escalate the war in Ukraine any further. Donald Trump delivered to Russian President he won the U.S. Presidential election. And it's preparing to take Putin to task for his "special "reminded" Putin that the U.S. maintains a strong be ready to use that presence if need be. going to be sending more weapons or even soldiers master plan. He's designed a pathway to peace that but hit Putin where it hurts in more ways decimate the Russian economy for years to come, as it tries to recover from the damage Putin's Trump is setting Putin up for a major fall. The How? Trump's plan is filled with economic in Ukraine's favor, destroying Putin and the that sound difficult to believe? If so, remember he took a bullish approach to dealing with Putin alongside Russia's leader. A perfect example comes In July 2018, Reuters reported that Trump went on countries for cozying up to Russia. Germany Germany's approval of a Baltic Sea gas pipeline Russia." How? Trump argued that Putin was making backdrop of Berlin dropping its defense spending Germany getting weaker militarily, feeding into money it should have been spending on defense into agreement with Russia saw it offer political Stream 2. As Trump pointed out in a conversation "We're supposed to be guarding against Russia and dollars a year to Russia." Trump also claimed that controlled by Russia with natural gas." While Trump appeared to be right on the money when supply would come from Russia as part of the gas pipeline that he even signed a law imposing gas giant Gazprom to complete the pipeline. stating that the U.S. considers the project "a Union, or EU, joined Russia in strongly condemning agreement on the pipeline with Germany and Russia than a year later, Putin invaded Ukraine. Trump's sense. He foresaw what that deal meant for Europe its natural gas supply. And sure enough, much electricity bills as Putin's Ukrainian invasion on its Putin policies. Electricity and natural gas taxed rate of around 14 cents per kilowatt-hour 2022. Electricity followed the same pattern - its to between 30 and 31 cents in 2024. Trump saw all of getting into bed with Russia almost four operation." And Trump was also no stranger to the United States. Several months before he made Trump approved the use of force against Russian groups - in Syria. The battle that took place in massive column of predominantly Russian pro-Syrian position with a wave of airstrikes. The Russian of State Mike Pompeo claiming "In Syria now, match. A couple hundred Russians were killed." during his first Presidential term, and he's can see that from what he's done in the weeks and U.S. President in January 2025. For instance, President Volodymyr Zelensky in Trump Tower. The as it moves into 2025 and what Trump intends to do revealed much about the conversation that took the mood was far more positive than many might Zelensky claimed the two shared a "common view win," while explaining he intended to share Trump also seemed to be supportive of Zelensky's "learned a lot" from the meeting. "We both want to made," claimed Trump while he noted that he thinks Granted, the meeting wasn't without its thornier minds, ABC News reported on Zelensky expressing feeling is that Trump doesn't really know how to Zelensky said in an interview with The New Yorker. Zelensky for "making nasty little aspersions" positive outcome of the meeting between Zelensky all missing something here. What Trump said on true view of Zelensky. Regardless, once the two creating peace for Ukraine. We also saw an example we mentioned in this video's introduction. The reports of the call "pure fiction." However, delivered a far cagier response, stating "We do Trump and other world leaders." Can we take this aren't a denial, suggesting that Trump did in fact stands on the Ukraine crisis. Trump has already to a question: What's this master plan that will for his chance to execute? Trump has already told and Russia as soon as possible. The great irony into this peace could force the start of an from the inside. Therein may lie the brilliance of The Wall Street Journal, or WSJ, noted that nobody even quoted a former Trump National Security senior in Trump's circle - who claims to have a plans on Ukraine simply doesn't know what he or ideas that are doing the rounds. One version of demilitarized zone running across almost the would have to agree that it can't join NATO for But assuming it does, Trump would continue to attacks while having European NATO-aligned troops States won't provide any of the training additional support. As one Trump camp member women to uphold peace in Ukraine. And we are not and French to do it." A contentious way to put it, of Trump's plan would both pause the Ukraine war a time when the conflict is escalating. Russia European troops to get to one another. That isn't cut Ukraine off from the weapons it's receiving sit down with Putin. Under this plan, Ukraine it has lost inside Ukraine, only it would have to action. We don't know if either of these plans thread is that both would force an end to the And though both plans seem like they'll be more involving freezing the current frontlines - that would be the real killer blow to Putin. Why? Ukraine. And Donald Trump knows that. Right now, by Putin's "special military operation." All of still being impacted by the raft of sanctions the invaded Ukraine. In a February 2024 article for School economics professor Dr. Renaud Foucart laid finds itself. He noted that sanctions had helped pre-war forecasts suggested it would be. The only reason why Russia hasn't collapsed economically business for Moscow. Dr. Foucart notes that the war. Natural resources, primarily oil and gas, affected by sanctions. At the two-year point of a staggering 40% of its governmental budget on the have hit around 10% of Russia's GDP for 2023. to be prosperous after the war with Ukraine ends. for soldiers, and compensation delivered to the to the 10% of GDP spending, Foucart says. In other paying the wages of thousands of people inside the wartime economy to feed their families. And even draining Russia's reserves. Add a labor shortage the ingredients of an economy that will collapse what does Trump claim he's going to do as quickly negotiates may not be favorable to Ukraine in the give up territory to Russia under Trump's though he would keep territory in Kursk. But in the Russian war machine that would cause major home, many of them returning to a country that has As for those military-supporting jobs, they'd soon rate it currently achieves. Russia may still look resources, but Foucart believes that ending the the country really is. Business Insider built on in September 2024. It pointed out that inflation his piece for The Conversation. It ended up going Bank has raised its inflation forecast to between 4% target. Interfax reports that Russia believes it's going above the original forecast of between direct investment is also in freefall in Russia. in investment during the first three quarters don't want to get into bed with Russia. Trump's It gets even worse for Russia. In October 2024, pieces suggesting that Russia's economy is where it implodes upon itself. The Hill pointed the Ukraine war, even though it's transitioned is the total value of all goods and services a may sound like a massive figure until you realize Hill calls Putin "bereft of money," claiming broader society to make concessions to his regime push on with the war. The latter is the Russian the former is unlikely. Economic collapse awaits plan may be a masterstroke. The Atlantic Council It claims Putin is stuck between a rock and a would mean more sanctions and a deeper dive into engulfed Russia's economy. But ending the war drop for all but Russia's most elite and Putin at a time when he's been weakened by a war that He'd control a post-war Russia with a dwindling that threatens to spiral out of control. So, we the particulars of that plan, though theories intends to put a stop to the Ukraine war. That territory in the short term. But it would also Russia's economy at a time when the country is it's ever been. Trump demonstrated in his first at Putin while criticizing those who do business his second term is to plunge Russia into economic country running. The slow-burn collapse of Putin's leader to reconsider his geopolitical ambitions. along with enforcing tariffs on any products Russia's economic situation would become even war. Donald Trump wants to end that war as be watching the collapse of Putin's ambitions is beholden to Russia. But what do you think Ukraine war truly shatter Russia's economy? Will war within 24 hours? Share your thoughts in the