Unless you just generally like looking for fun, you're here because you think ADHD. And if you do just generally like internet for fun then please put down as soon as possible. Take a nap, take a Otherwise, welcome! Pull up a chair and a I use a handy fidget pen. Atlanta, Georgia and today we're going to But first remember to subscribe below new videos release.Here we go! If you're an adult and you think you probably not the easiest thing to do. started on things, get organized, execute schedule in the first place.To get things like: find a clinician, call a up to that appointment... on time. It's like everything on a list probably isn't one of But here's the thing about all of that coordination that it takes to get so worth it. If you have undiagnosed ADHD, with things like getting started on late fees...oops... and big projects that you'll figure out on time, turning things in on time, paying time, getting out of bed on time, eating with time. Taking care of yourself and relationships. That's right, unmanaged ADHD It's almost like stumbling around on or getting nowhere because you can't Pro tip: forgetting your glasses all the may be signs you have ADHD. Now, before keys sometimes so everybody must have Swift song at some point, but it doesn't mean Swiftie..they're out there, they exist, and happen that matters. ADHD is real. It's studies and it affects millions of internet quizzes and satirical ...see the link below for a few chuckles... To quote famed ADHD researcher Russell Adult ADHD, he says to get started get key pieces of information to know about there's no magic test for ADHD. allowed to use the name of a specific Okay this isn't a ...&lt;generic wizard school sorting headgear to put on your head - I inattentive type. There's no special computer game that will naturally tell work that way. Instead psychologists and workers, counselors use a variety of process. The most important tools that assessment process are right up here: quality clinical interviewing is still for ADHD assessment So that means that questions...a lot of questions...like all what you have to say. Also your clinician numerical questionnaire data to compare other adults who have or haven't been no math involved, and definitely no paper and pencil questionnaires. All this ADHD diagnosis doesn't happen in a quick spend time getting to know you and your who cares about you and knows you pretty things about people in general that is that we aren't always the means with your permission of course include third-party information from well if they're trusted and available. any of your records available from letters from your third grade teacher your science project on time and instead volcano from the cafeteria mashed information that helps your clinician Also you should have a general medical like ADHD: things like blood sugar disorders, and more so check with your up with your regular medical check-ups Finally, some clinicians might use some more about your general level of detailed information about things like others may use types of scanning attention and performance but it's disagreement about the effectiveness of purposes of diagnosing ADHD. There is no task based assessments either weren't they miss a substantial percentage of do well on the tests. Why is that? short, they're novel and interesting like accurately reflect the kinds of complex to navigate in the real world...things cleaning out and organizing your closet, get to a new place you've never been before time. Now that you've learned a little ADHD evaluation, it's time for point number two.Find a knowledgeable professional. licensed clinicians who can properly conditions, evaluations for adult ADHD psychologists, psychiatrists, neurologists. This next part is just assume that any clinician you see adult ADHD. Heck, I didn't know that I had clinical psychology.. I even finished a training hospital as this guy that's Dr. literally co-wrote a best-selling book had it either until late in his own I struggled with things like and social relationships and never once I saw mention anything about the in so many different ways.There are some and shout to so many people why did tell me? But I can't. I can only work with of why I'm doing something like this other people like you to struggle and did. So, if you suspect you have ADHD, get evaluated by a knowledgeable concerns, collect standardized people in your life and take your all of these things, and then tells you I data as to why... be open to hearing up, get help get support, it will be worth links to additional information and resources near you. If you like what please remember to subscribe, like, share know that you're here and any ADHD future videos.Take care and see you next