These platforms weren't designed to be out in the North Sea And they weren't really designed After half a century at sea, the Brent oil and gas platforms All four platforms in the Brent Field were challenging but Brent Charlie Charlie is Brent's heaviest But it's the platform's which will really test I feel like we saved George, can I have you Are you allowed to laugh? This is the final chapter in the legacy of the iconic Brent Field. What we do matters. How we do it matters. Wow. This has been out in the North Sea and now it's our challenge Brent Field's located about 150 miles north of Shetland Isles. It was founded in the early 70s, and basically, was to help provide oil and gas Having contributed over their working lives, the Brent platforms must be dismantled, and recycled. The most effective way to do this is by bringing the entire known as the topsides, In 2017, Shell removed in 2019, Brent Bravo, in 2020, Brent Alpha, and now, it is the turn of Brent Charlie. Charlie stopped producing Attention, all personnel, Brent Charlie will shortly sign off. And the decommissioning team to take the platform apart. The risks are real. But before dismantling can begin, Charlie's 38 wells must be capped On Delta, Bravo, and Alpha, the onboard drill rigs But Charlie's drill rig so the decision was taken Two portable drill units and retrieve the well piping. This was the first time it had ever been trialled in the industry and was ultimately a major success. So with capping safely completed, One of the unique challenges is that it has 40 external conductors. Essentially, that brings the hydrocarbons The plan is to cut at five metres above the sea surface and lift the upper sections off The remaining lower sections will be removed afterwards. But Brent Charlie's unique construction makes cutting the conductors On Brent Charlie, On Brent Bravo and Brent Delta, Charlie's are open in the environment. The conductors are subjected and everything else that you see That gave us a completely new challenge. The conductors themselves, And if one of those we could have a fracture which is an intolerable risk. The solution? Cut the weakest conductors underwater... and strengthen those to be cut The hydraulic workover team, they're here looking at Just kind of find the sweet spot What we've learned on Brent Charlie is that every conductor is unique. They're all different, and they've all got to be treated I think external conductor decommissioning is one of the areas Brent Charlie's one of the players With the conductor removal underway, next, the team must turn their attention to Charlie's four 162-metre-long legs. These also need precise cutting Compared to Bravo and Delta, They're considerably narrower and packed full of process equipment. We had to remove 26 tonnes of steel And because Charlie's legs The team must climb down almost carrying specialist breathing equipment We're in column three. We're on cut 258 out of 263. George, can I have you On Brent Bravo and Brent Delta, Whereas, on Brent Charlie, we're using high-pressure, The water was used, one, because it was a highly efficient but also because it's safer to any flammable gas And we're doing which is just as it's described, And the reason we do this they act as a really good locking frame. So, once we cut, the platform won't move. Having finished preparations the team must bid farewell One of the last things we have to do is get everyone off the platform. For those of us that have been working and kind of living of the offshore teams, it's very emotional. Because you're basically doing away with So, of my 38-year career with Shell, I've spent 17 years All my life-changing events happened while I was a crew member Getting married, and the people I started with So, there's a huge amount of emotions that I personally feel. I'm terrified, yeah, I'm excited. I feel proud. One of the last things is to isolate and operate a switch called TPS, to make it safe Right, Willy, this is it, mate. Now, I should be turning the buttons, but she's been your home -So, proceed with SPV. Okay. SPV. -TPS. And UPS. Thanks, Willy. Sad moment. We'll wait on Liam I really do feel privileged at being one of the last to leave With the last person off, the challenge now is to remove To lift the topsides of Brent Charlie, we need the largest construction vessel The Pioneering Spirit. It's the only vessel that can remove Brent Charlie is set to be for the Pioneering Spirit. The lift is over 30,000 tonnes, And at 80 metres, meaning even the giant Pioneering Spirit The vessel was widened so that the bows would fit and it's going to be a very tight fit. We're going to have to be very careful and into position under the support frame. All stations, S2 completed. We're going to initiate fast lift. End of the great Brent era. Unbelievable. Fantastic moment. The last Brent platform on our way to Hartlepool. As soon as you complete a major milestone, in terms of the success but you quickly need to reground Certainly, in decommissioning, The 31,000-tonne topsides into Able's Seaton Port Due to its weight, and the team have to moor the platform. The draft of the Iron Lady barge Thus, the tidal requirements were quite Once the barge is next to Able's quay, it needs to be grounded and secured so that it doesn't move And it takes quite some effort It's millimetre precision So, it's a very, very delicate operation. Slowly, using 40 push-pull Charlie is rolled onshore So, it is fully onshore. First time in the last five decades, Charlie's reached Over the next 18 months, this giant will be reduced to scrap, We've been at the forefront over the last 12 years, and this is our opportunity to dismantle the fourth and last Brent structure It's the end of an era. Bringing Brent home has been I'm tremendously proud the team of Shell, and all the people It's a very surreal experience, but an absolutely amazing one. It's emotional as well. The success of any project is its people, and I'm privileged to work with such an amazing group The North Sea, its people, Those people and those skills will ensure we continue to supply and, at the same time,