Shoot , shoot, shoot. Get down and hit me hard. Beat him to death. It's really dangerous to deal with you . I came here specifically for you. You don't want to see me. I said I was behind you. Should I kill you? I can't see. How can you kill me? You have nothing in your hand. Never think you're smart. Don't get lucky. Don't try. You're really good . Where did I go ? You said you should kill me . But I have a question to ask you. If you If you can answer, I will consider letting you go. Who betrayed you? This was a trap from the beginning, right ? I want to hear you tell a story. Do you really think I came here alone? This is the beginning of the story. Boy, you are so young. I can only tell you that this is indeed a conspiracy, but I don't want to waste time explaining to you. It seems that you can only be a confused ghost. Don't you think it is a pity to kill me like this? Yes, to be honest, it is very It's a pity, but there is no way. It seems that you are not so scary that I can't deal with you. Do you know what white phosphorus means ? Looking back, I will know that you are really too young. This trick is useless. I won't give you anything. Chance, you listen, I'm behind you now, right? She said something to you. She didn't say anything . Then why don't you kill her? I don't kill women. Are you willing to go back with me? Or do you want me to kill you here? I don't care. Don't think you're smart Don't get lucky Don't try This is what you said to me Now I'm giving it back to you And you don't have white phosphorus now No one can save you Would you believe it if I told you you couldn't kill me Don't say yes I wouldn't believe it if you told me . In fact, I knew you had been following me, right? Your hiding skills are very good. I couldn't find you , but I knew you were behind me , so I thought of this way to deal with you. What's the best way to make a circle ? Ball, I feel like I'm listening to a story DS Goodbye, I will definitely kill you. No, he's coming. Come with me. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on . Come on . Come on. Come on. Come on! Quick, quick, quick , search for me. The webmaster didn't find it . Come with me. Come and have a look. 08-89-313. Go and find Xiaoyuan. Please take care of Master's body and then come to pick me up. He's here. How do you know that I can feel his murderous intent? Be careful , Rie, protect the commander. I will chase him . Come on , hurry up, hurry up. What's going on ? Is he chasing you? Is he chasing you? Shuang eagle, hurry up! The grenade can't be withdrawn. It's hard to escape. Give me a chase . Yes , hurry up . Hurry up and get in and leave through the chimney inside. Come on, you guys, go up and see how it is Mr. Shen. We searched every corner of the sub-station IN L. We found no trace of them and the door of the sub-station was open IN L IN L IN L Mr. Shen and the others are all gone. How did they get in? Everyone, be careful. Yan Shuangying was shot . He must not have been far away. They split up to find where they went. Why did you shoot ? Spare your life, spare your life , spare your life. Ah, spare my life. I didn't want to let you go. I'm here. Take off your uniform . Take off your uniform. Open the door. Open the door. Open the shooting. Stop the shooting . Come with me. It 's the deputy section chief. Something happened. Come with me. Come quickly. Search carefully. They ran away from the window. They are chasing me below. Hurry up. This way of death is really ugly . What should I do now? Go to the cremation room. Hao Rie. I am such a passionate and good man here. Listen to me. Shouting one, two, three, you let me go, I'll give you the gun . Don't ask me for tricks or I'll shoot. You should know my speed. Why do men become so stupid when they have women? What do you mean, my gun goes off for you? Then Rie will run. How far do you think she can run? Ten feet. Then I will take the letter from your body. It will be so simple. Goodbye. When you take the enemy's gun, don't you look to see if there is anything in the gun? Bullet 3, you lost again , don't you? Hurry up and stay away . To be honest, I have long wanted to fight you alone. Isn't now a good opportunity? I want to use your heart as my trophy. How about the taste of my eagle hook? Your heart does look like a trophy. Okay , Rie has passed. I want to go back and kill Xiaoyuan. Can you do it alone? Let's meet here tomorrow morning. Okay, okay. I still have a few friends. I'll bring them with me. President, okay? Yan Shuangying is here, are you looking for me? It doesn't look like it. President, you can't stay in this place of right and wrong for long . I think you should leave first. I don't believe that there are so many of us and I can't kill even one Yan Shuangying. I'll go out and kill him. He really didn't expect that Yan Shuangying would find this place. Such a commotion would definitely alarm the Communist Party's headquarters. The headquarters cannot be used. Wang Yue took away the roster and destroyed all other documents. We are leaving immediately. Do you know who I am? Yes, then I don't need to say more. You are the captain of the patrol team, right? Just tell me the distribution of people in the cotton mill. How about it be fair if I spare your life ? Who are you? I am Brother Lu Yunfei's subordinate. What are you doing here sneaking around? I'm getting something. You guys are sneaking around. What's in the bag? Open it to eat. Look at the walkie-talkie. Carry it on your back and walk with me . You talk a lot , oh, okay. What are you doing? The snipers upstairs will find out. You immediately use the walkie-talkie to call the snipers above and tell them that there is a flashlight next to the low wall and ask them to check. OK , No. 3, No. 3, I am No. 2, I am No. 2. A flashlight appeared near the low wall of the west corridor. No. 3. No. 3. I am No. 2. I am No. 2. A flashlight appeared near the low wall of the west corridor. Please check. Please check. You are doing well. From now on, you are my helper. I am the wolf. I am a wolf den . Report situation in each region. Region 1, wolf den. Region 1 is normal. Region 2. Region 2 is normal. Region 3. Region 3. Did you hear it? Region 3 is normal. Region 4. Region 4. Region 4 is normal. Region 5. 5. No. Area No. 5 Area Normal contact after 10 minutes What's wrong ? What's wrong ? My brother is here. You are so impatient . Yan Shuangying knows you best. He told me that I can tell anyone. Just don't tell Xiao Jindi first . Look down on you, your arms are not tied. Our hands are tied with a live buckle and they open with a pull. Use daggers to cut the ropes of all the brothers. Give them weapons. Whenever we hear the sound of gunshots and explosions, we will Take action immediately. I am a wolf's den. I am a wolf's den. According to reports from various regions, reports from various regions. No. 1, region 1, Wang Bo, region 1, normal. Region 2, incubator first . No. 2, everything is normal. How can there be an incubator here ? Yes, it's really weird. I walked over and took a look at Area 4. Area 4 is normal. Contact Area 5 in 10 minutes . All the arrangements have been completed. Communications in each area are also smooth. We can start taking action . Hahaha, the original missing person notice will be in the newspaper tomorrow. Next. I'm just waiting for Yan Shuangying to come and die. Yeah, hahahaha. What's going on ? Chairman Li, Mr. Du, you see someone broke into the second workshop in Area 1. It's impossible. Beast Eagle doesn't know the wind resistance of the air here. The coefficient has changed. There are intruders . This is certain. I am in the second workshop of Area 1. There are intruders. There are intruders . There are intruders . There are intruders. Is it really true? Yan Shuangying, nothing is impossible for Yan Shuangying, No. 1, No. 1, I am the wolf's den, I am the wolf's den, order the firepower, shoot at will, shoot at will, you know you shine, this way of death spread the wrong time, No. 1, No. 1 I am the wolf den. Report the situation . Report the situation. The wolf den. The intruder has been solved . Well, how is it solved? Ye Xiongying. Who else but him would break into the room of killers? Let me go and take a look. Yeah, No. 1, No. 1. Order the firepower to stand by. We will enter the workshop immediately to check. Immediately enter the workshop to check the wolf den. Wolf den. Receive. Receive wolf den. Wolf den. I am Duma. I have left area No. 1. I have left area No. 1. Start the vibration monitor. Start the vibration monitoring. The device is my love. The West Tower is calling No. 2. The West Tower is calling No. 2. The West Tower is calling No. 2. The West Tower is calling No. 2. It is Yan Shuangying . But how did the boss come in? How could he avoid the sniper in the East Tower? President Li, someone broke into No. 1. Area No. 1 No. 1 I am a wolf's den I am a wolf's den There are intruders who open fire at will How come there are bombs in the workshop Damn in this again in this again The fire must be Ye Chongying's coming It must be otherwise , why would there be such a lively fight? Ah, you can tell by the sound of gunshots that this kid is about to be beaten into a sieve. Hahaha, it must be my brother. Sister Orange, let's do it . Stop, don't be in a hurry . Everyone, get ready. Hahahahahahaha. Come my love. That's not right. You're going to have this gun. The sound is a bit strange. How many people in Yanshuangying are still calling No. 1 and No. 1 for so long ? I am a wolf's nest , I am a wolf's nest. How is the situation ? No. 1 and No. 1 heard that I am a wolf's nest. What's going on with his grandma ? Yes. The long message channel is occupied. The other party cannot hear what you are saying . Someone has turned on the call switch of the walkie-talkie. All stations using the same channel cannot receive your message . Go to Area 1 immediately to see if it is a Mr. Du. Damn bastard, I haven't left yet . Why are you shooting ? We can't see the situation outside clearly in the firepower point . I don't know you are in the workshop. Why don't you listen to the command of the command ? The command command ordered us to fire at will. What did you say ? If you don't believe it, ask them if they are this damn evil. Did Li Kang take the wrong medicine? Mr. Du, um , Mr. Du, Wang Yue, we haven't evacuated the headquarters yet. Why did you order the shooting of Coco? We heard you say in the incubator with our own ears. We have left Area 1. You want us to resume vibration monitoring. What do you mean ? We just used the incubator to call Area 1 but there was no response . President Li then asked me to come and take a look. Wow, come with me. Is this Brother Double Eagle ? How are you Well, what about you? Look, everyone in Jiutou is okay. Brother, don't worry, we're all okay . Orange Lili, you guys are amazing. Let's leave without further ado . How about you ? I, I have no face to see you. I've hurt everyone. You don't need it. I blame myself because I want you to come back and report the news to them, but I'm fine. If you have anything to say, let 's go home and talk. Come on, let's go. To love you , boss, they must have run away. It must be Yan Shuangying's fault. Where did they run away from? Go fast. Wait i'm going out. I'm dragging him here and leading the brothers to the west tower. I put two packs of weapons on the top of the tower and led everyone to guard the west tower. Brother, what about you? It's useless. Quick heroes. The archers were hit again. Suppress the rush. Theta calls No. 2. Theta calls No. 2. Theta calls No. 2. Theta calls No. 2. Let's see where you are going. Chase . How are you? Brother, we are all up. No more arguing . We are here to support you. Go quickly . Landing attack. Brother Da , Haokang 's men here are really a bunch of trash. The ancestors can't blame them. The door of the west tower is too small. Besides, the other party is being condescending. Should we withdraw first and then think of other ways ? Throw grenades and drive to the entrance. Take me. take me take me my love my love Xiaoyan Shuangying sneaked in without anyone noticing. It seems that Lu Yunfei and his men have died in the hands of Yan Shuangying. Don't you understand? Yan Shuangying must have killed After Lu Yunfei died and went to kidnap Orange, he disguised himself as his driver and brought Orange here, so that he could sneak into the battlefield unnoticed. I felt strange how Yunfei, a killer from the Hong Gang, could be halfway through his mission. Hmm , things turned out to be like this. It's awesome , boss! The west tower is easy to defend and difficult to attack. If we attack by force, the losses will be huge. What do you think we should do ? The east tower is at least four or five meters higher than the west tower. We can use this commanding height to stop the attack from a high position. This is What a clever plan , Li Yunna, you will mobilize all the gunmen who are ambushing in the five killing workshops and gather in front of the east tower to stand by. Go ahead. Currently, the snipers on top of the large warehouse have all been exposed within the range of the west tower. You order them to evacuate immediately. Assemble in front of the east tower gate . You and your men will strictly guard the west tower gate. No one can get out from here . Don't worry, they can't escape. I have to rush back to the headquarters immediately to rearrange the manpower and prepare for the attack. Assemble , hurry, hurry, hurry , right? I am the command officer of the second patrol group, Qinglong Party. Your brother is patrolling outside. Lao Wang ordered everyone to assemble under the group. Oh, it's you . You did a very good job. I just received the order for everyone to assemble under the cave tower. Yes, I know. Oh, brothers, we have gathered in front of the headquarters. Come on, hey, hey, it's really hot. You'll understand what Brother Nian is doing here. You'll understand in a moment. Boss, we're all ready. Let's send two brothers to test it out. Dream on my love. Chairman Li, let's start. The first group is preparing to attack. Oh , ah, stop shooting and start attacking . Go up, Lao Du, you have such a great idea. Let's see where they go this time . Let the brothers launch an attack. OK , ah, ah , ah, ok. Hey, monitor them and report to me immediately if there is any situation. Pay attention to concealment and understand. Go in this dream. Shooting is prohibited. What's wrong? They are retreating. Let everyone save ammunition. I didn't expect that you are quite experienced. I have received special training. By the way, there are double eagles. Oh, I just went to the top of the tower and never came down. I blame him for what he was doing. We do n't have much ammunition. Do we have to stay here all the time ? We ca n't rush out. Hey, where is my brother ? I'm going to find him at the top of the tower. Hey, you're here again . Why don't you talk to him? But when will the battle be considered? Hey, let's wait patiently . There must be a way. What a piece of trash that makes a Yan Shuangying tangle around in confusion. Are you talking about me, President Li? You are known as the chief instructor of the military command, but you have repeatedly failed to deal with a mere Youth Gang gangster. This is too shameless, right? Li Hui What you say is very light. The Qing Gang gangster said it well. I heard that the Sihai Hongmen Club also dealt with this Qing Gang gangster. But what was the result ? Boss, how can we compare with others? The Sihai Hongmen Club is just dead. Brother Gao Shibao's lair has been taken away, and there's nothing else . You little bastard , you dare to talk to me like this just because you are a little bastard. You, the surnamed Li, are the bastard. All of you in the Four Seas Red Sect will You are a bunch of idiots, I will fucking kill you , Mr. Du, Brother Song, Brother Yao, calm down, President Li, please calm down, oh, everyone, please calm down , President Li, whose surname is Li, please listen clearly, we are here to help on the orders of the president. The thing that will benefit you when things are done is that you are not my Duma. Let me tell you the truth. If it weren't for the president's sake, why would I listen to your orders? You dare to shoot me ? If I can't kill Yan Shuangying, why can't I kill you? You who died in the sea of fire are all my brothers from the photovoltaic club. Why the hell did you come out? You have to work harder. Your loser, Lu Yunfei, ran to the city to catch oranges, but he lured Yan Shuangying back. Are you a bunch of losers ? Well, Mr. Du, we are all our own people, so why should we be so tense? Do you have anything to say? I'm a waste, okay. From now on, you can deal with Yan Shuangying on your own. Brothers, gather together , let's go . Brothers, Mr. Du, Mr. Du, don't be angry, don't be angry. Why is this? No, let's go . Hey , President, I 'm leaving now. How can a hundred or so brothers from the Four Seas Hongmen Association be afraid of a small Yan Shuangying Xiaoqiang? I mobilize all the troops in front of the west tower gate to attack with all my strength . I don't believe that we can't defeat it. Don't you know how? Master Duma is here. Oh , have you been discovered? Get in the car and hide under the seat. Okay, it's strange that they are leaving. Hey, President, why don't you come here to the headquarters ? Du Ma, this coward, led people to run away. No matter what he, Baoyu Xiaoqiang, immediately organized all the people. I must take down the storming tower. Be prepared to fight. Sister Orange, brothers, I can't stand it anymore. Go find Brother Ye. Be careful not to leave. Thank you. How are you? It's okay. You still have a pulse. What should I do? What should I do? Is it serious ? Fortunately, it didn't hurt the heart, but the blood loss is too much and we need to be rescued immediately . It's too late. It's too late. What should I do with Orange's blood ? You guys cover me and go find Ye Shuangying . What , wow, wait let's go. Beat them to death. Why hasn't Orange come back? Just let me . Woman, how's the situation down there? Yu Rongping is injured . Brothers, can't bear it ? Can he survive the injury? Lili said that he didn't hurt his heart, but he lost too much blood and he needs to be rescued as soon as possible . Listen , I understand. I'm going, brother, brother, brother, all. I went to the West Tower with Xiao Jin Emperor. Orange is waiting for you there. After Jiutou and I broke up , I also stayed behind. Stop talking nonsense and go quickly. Yes, Yan Shuangying . Just now I saw a man in the car. It must be him. Isn't he in the West Tower ? He 's running outside. President, let's evacuate. This guy is not good at dealing with light radiation. Everyone has run away . Why should we sacrifice our lives for him? If I don't leave, there are still dozens of brothers inside. I don't believe that I can't kill him. Just a Yan Shuangying. Chairman, the sound of such a loud explosion will definitely spread far away. If the Communist Party is blocked, it will be a big deal. Solve the battle as soon as possible . The king said that someone will move the car away. Xiaoqiang, go, hurry up , hurry up , Brother Shaoying, hurry up. Come on, carry him on your back. Come on , be careful . Oh, hum . They couldn't hold it anymore and ran to the top of the tower. Brothers, come up to me. We are things. It 's strange. Why is there no one? People are evil. Did n't they fly up to the sky? Okay, they ran away, they ran, chase , what's going on, get up, get up, get up, get up, Brother Yan, his name is Song Qi , he 's my friend , ah, it's very dangerous here, Yu Ru Bingping is seriously injured, so we have to leave you right away, don't you? Let's go. Song Qi and I have to wait for a while. Brother, you're crazy. What are you waiting for? Don't argue with me anymore at this time. Can you handle Lili Yu Ruping's injury? It should be fine. Orange Jiutou, you escort Lily and Yu Ruping. It's best to go back to the clinic , but will those people in Duma come back to the clinic to cause trouble? Don't worry, you will be safe from today . Brothers can't go back to Binhai these days. Brother Jin, you are quite familiar with the suburbs and counties around Binhai. Take everyone there. I have been hiding outside for a while. Brother Yu Ruping was injured because of me. I want to stay and take care of her. The Xiaoying Clinic is not a big place, so it is more convenient for Xiao Jing to stay . Brother, I have a good friend named Wu from the Zongzao Gang in Jiangwan District. Ah San, we can take the brothers to hide in his house. Okay, let's do it like this. After this is over, I will go find you and get in the car. Hurry , you have to be careful. Hmm, be careful. Go quickly. Xiaoqiang is dead. Ye Chuiying? Where is Ye Chuiying? They are obvious. How could he disappear in the tower ? I don't believe he can fly. Could he fly into the sky and search for me? President, if there is a quarrel here tonight, it will definitely alert the security forces here. If we don't evacuate, I'm afraid it will be too late. I don't care, I don't care, I must kill Ye Shuangying, I must kill him. Brothers, please search carefully. My love, President, is not good . The Communist Army is coming. Get down, swear Shuangying . He is shooting in the east tower. Brothers, give it. I concentrated my firepower to suppress him. Get out. Brothers , get up and rush out. Brothers, get up and rush out of this door. If you stay here and wait for the Communist Party, no one can survive. If you want to survive , rush out. Fight so stop. Stop shooting, people inside, listen. Disarm immediately and surrender. You all know our policy. No killing, no killing. Brothers, the boss has run away. Why should we fight to surrender? Surrender, surrender, surrender. All trapped people, listen. Put your hands up, line up, come out, walk fast , walk fast , don't move fast