(keyboard keys tapping) - [Narrator] Hi, I'm Michael. This is &quot;Lessons from the Screenplay&quot;. Two fundamental elements are want and need. What the character wants usually but it's often through that a story expresses its theme and creates an emotional impact. In Pixar's &quot;Soul&quot; these are right on the surface, is so preoccupied with pursuing a goal that he ignores the joy So today I want to explore how the film creates the arc of the protagonist, Joe, to examine how it makes the audience deeply empathize with his want, while subtly signaling and to reveal how Joe's creates one of the most Let's take a look at &quot;Soul&quot;. (soft instrumental music) (lively jazz music) - One, two, three, four. Stay on the beat. - [Narrator] As the film begins, the thing Joe wants is quickly made clear. We see Joe's struggles as a (clack) as well as his talent (moving piano music) Joe is dissatisfied with his life and longs to be a professional musician. The inciting incident of the film makes his want even more specific. Joe gets the opportunity of a lifetime, the chance to play with jazz - Wow! I would die a happy man if I could perform with Dorothea Williams. - [Curly] Well, this - [Narrator] He nails the audition and is set to play the gig of his life, but then something quite he dies. (Joe shouts) - [Narrator] This crystallizes his want. - No, no, no, no, no, no. Listen. I have a gig tonight. I can't die now! - [Narrator] Joe wants to escape and play the gig that - I'm not dying today, not - [Narrator] But in order for the audience to identify with Joe, we have to want him to get what he wants. The film uses a few techniques to show us how happy music makes Joe. When he plays and goes into &quot;the zone,&quot; beautiful visuals and sound The characters around by his musical ability... - Joe Gardner, where have you been? - [Narrator] Clearly And once Joe is in the Great Before, we get a glimpse of how in pursuit of his dream. - Sorry, Joe. - [Man] We're looking - [Narrator] But what makes &quot;Soul&quot; special is that Joe's want is something that is culturally accepted Our culture tends to assign and most of us have probably &quot;If I could just then I would be happy.&quot; So the film not only uses tried-and-true filmmaking techniques to but also gives him a something we might by a good and worthwhile thing to pursue. And this brilliant choice even more powerful, once (soft instrumental music) There's a great summary of the relationship between need and want in K.M. Weiland's book, &quot;Your character will pursuing an outer, plot-related goal related to the Thing He Wants. But what the story is really is his growth into a place where he, first subconsciously, then consciously, recognizes and pursues his So how does Joe come to recognize and pursue the thing he needs? This is where Joe's antagonist, or opponent if you want 22, comes in. - I'm gonna make you wish you never died. - [Narrator] As a soul who nor ever been in a body... - I'm in a body? - Why are you in my body? - [Narrator] The experience of (gasps) - Don't worry, it's (jake hammer rattling) (shouts) - [Narrator] At first, is overwhelming, but around 22 starts getting into Meanwhile, Joe, who is watches as 22's complete creates new opportunities - It is nice to talk to you about something other than jazz, Joe. - Huh. How come we never talked - You never asked. But I'm - [Narrator] 22 delights in appreciating the things Joe overlooks as he continues to pursue This hints at Joe's need: to realize that attaching to accomplishing a singular goal prevents him from actually living. Although Joe starts to become conscious of his need at the midpoint, this need is actually present in ways we may have even been blind to because we were swept up in Joe's culturally-encouraged pursuit of his want. In that same first scene where we also see that he experiences joy watching just one of his students falling in love with music. In the second scene, Joe's he doesn't seem to appreciate - And lord knows we need And just think, playing music will finally be your real career! - [Narrator] And if we revisit Joe's lines when he is faced with the Great Beyond, we see that they reveal his subconscious awareness of his need. - I'm not dying today. Not - [Narrator] Deep down, Joe knows that he hasn't really but instead waiting that will mark when Joe's need is present subconsciously from the start of the to recognize it consciously how does he finally accept it? In the final stages of the story must force the character to confront their need, at the crisis. (soft instrumental music) A protagonist can end a story having gotten what they or both, or neither. In most quote-unquote happy endings, the protagonist gets what In &quot;Groundhog Day&quot;, spoiler when he learns how to be truly selfless, and in doing so becomes the affection of his love interest, Rita. Check out our video on &quot;Groundhog Day&quot;. In more bittersweet endings, the protagonist sacrifices the for the thing they need. In &quot;Children of Men&quot;, spoiler warning, Theo just wants to make some money and maintain his apathy But in the end, he realizes is to reawaken his passion and he makes the ultimate Check out our video on &quot;Children of Men&quot;. &quot;Soul&quot; does something interesting. The film makes Joe realize his need by giving him exactly what he wants. By the end of the second and manages to make it to his though it's clear he still - Get ready Joe Gardner. He plays the show and absolutely kills it, receiving a standing ovation. (audience cheering) - Welcome to the quartet, teach. - [Narrator] Joe has finally gotten everything he has ever wanted, so he's confused when he - What's wrong, Teach? - It's just I've been my entire life. I thought I'd feel different. - [Narrator] This is what finally prepares Joe to fully recognize his need, On the Spotify podcast &quot;Soul&quot; Stories, &quot;Soul&quot;'s co-writer and recounts a story told who co-scored the film and behind the band Nine Inch Nails. - [Pete Docter] He said, boy, if I could someday that would mean that I've made it. He said somehow he felt and make everything make sense. And what happened was, instead, he plays the show, it's great, and everybody has lives And he's left there going, &quot;Wait, I thought that was supposed to be the thing that put it all And it was because of that story of waiting backstage for people that we put in, remember, Kemp, we put in that the thing with the subway. - [Narrator] &quot;The thing with to earlier in the film, when Joe associates riding the subway with monotony and dissatisfaction in life, and he imagines a future when he won't have to be - Every day the same But once I get on that stage tonight, all my troubles are going to be fixed. You're gonna see a brand-new Joe Gardner. - [Narrator] But after he realizes that even his - So... (chuckles) what happens next? - We come back tomorrow - [Narrator] Immediately we see Joe ending his day just like everyone else. The second way the prepares Joe to recognize his need is through the story she tells him, which succinctly summarizes - I heard this story about a fish. He swims up to this older fish and says, &quot;I'm trying to find this &quot;The ocean?&quot; says the older fish, &quot;That's what you're in right now.&quot; &quot;This?&quot; says the young What I want is the ocean.&quot; (soft piano music) See you tomorrow. - [Narrator] After getting what he wants and hearing this story, Joe now understands the theme attaching your purpose in life to a goal will not bring you permanent happiness even if you achieve you'll miss out on all the Armed with this knowledge, remembers the joy 22 found in and finally gets what he needs. - So, what do you think you'll do? How are you gonna spend your life? - I'm not sure. But I do know... I'm gonna live every minute of it. (gentle instrumental music) - &quot;Soul&quot; clearly demonstrates the importance of a character's By making the thing Joe wants something that our culture often the movie teaches a valuable life lesson that we unfortunately hear very rarely. If we decide that our won't really have a purpose, until we achieve a singular goal, then we may miss out on all in this very moment. Hey guys, I hope you I have a question for you. I'm thinking about putting together a video essayist roundtable that would premiere on Nebula, and I want to know from you guys: Who are some video essayists you'd love to see be a and what are some topics that Let me know in the comments below. If you're unfamiliar with created by a group of where we don't have to and we can experiment It features some of the and all the content there is ad-free, Plus, there are things content made exclusively for Nebula. If you're interested in we've done something to sweeten the deal. If you sign up for CuriosityStream, their thousands of amazing documentaries, you also get Nebula for free. So, for example, you check out &quot;The Science of Cute&quot;, a documentary about how and that features tons of adorable imagery. And then also check out, on Nebula, Tom Scott torturing some YouTubers or Real Engineering's series which is really fascinating. And if you use the link you get 26% off an annual plan; so, that's both for less than $15 a year. So head to link in the description below to sign up for CuriosityStream Thank you, CuriosityStream, If you haven't, this is also a great time to check out our podcast, where each week the team deep-dive analysis into a different film. The link to our episode on &quot;Soul&quot; is in the description below. Thank you as always to the patrons for making this channel possible, and thank you for watching.